
        WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The board and staff of Playwrights Horizons mourn the untimely death of our beloved friend and colleague Wendy Wasserstein. As an artist, Wendy's trailblazing candor, her compassionate intelligence, and her indefatigable wit, inspired and stimulated our entire community. As a citizen, Wendy epitomized an ideal of liberal values: generous, open-minded, caring, loyal, she proved a tireless, articulate, charismatic champion for artist, women, educators, children, and many many others. But it was as a friend, daughter, sister, and mother that the gift of Wendy's warmth and light burned brightest. We are blessed to have known her, and grieve to lose her. Tim Sanford, Artistic Director Leslie Marcus, Managing Director Judith O. Rubin, Board Chairman
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW, join the New York City artistic community and all America in mourning the loss of Wendy Wasserstein. She was a brilliant playwright, a passionate advocate of the arts, and a wonderful human being. With her award-winning dramas, she brought uncommon spark to the American stage. Her unforgettable screenplays invited television and movie audiences to sojourn with strong characters, fascinating plots and excellent writing full of wit and intelligence. Her work with the Open Doors mentoring program in theater attests to her devotion to education and her belief in the importance of using the arts to inspire young people. A lifelong friend of public television, Wendy was an active member of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation's Board of Trustees, devoting unending energy to the presence of public television in our lives. As chairman of the Board's programming committee, she generously shared her wisdom, insight and wealth of ideas to help us create exciting new public television offerings with a special emphasis on strengthening the arts on television. Wendy often spoke publicly about the great influence public broadcasting had on her life. But it could not have been nearly as profound as the influence she had on us. We will miss her. Steven Rattner Chairman Bill Baker President Educational Broadcasting Corporation Licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund deeply mourn the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, a major force in the American theater and our colleague. In addition to Wendy's immeasurable contributions as a playwright and her work as an arts advocate, she also brought the Open Doors Program to TDF in 1998. The program for students was born out of Wendy's conviction that it was the birthright of every child in NYC to have access to the theatre. Through her tireless efforts on the program's behalf, it has grown from one group mentored by her, to 17 groups of NYC high school students mentored by 17 theater professionals. Each group has Wendy's spirit--the spirit of inquiry, curiousity, discussion, love of children and love of the theatre. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and her many colleagues. David D. Holbrook, Chairman Victoria Bailey, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Directors, Advisory Board, Medical Advisory Board and staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the untimely death of our beloved friend and dedicated Advisory Board member Wendy Wasserstein. Her passionate intelligence, infectious sense of humor and unique voice on behalf of women everywhere set a high standard that we all strive to emulate. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her adored daughter, Lucy Jane; her mother, Lola; her siblings, Bruce and Georgette; and her nieces, Samantha and Jenifer. Wendy was one of a kind and will be greatly missed. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President Larry Norton, MD, Scientific Director
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. Young Playwrights Inc. mourns the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, beloved Board member for two decades. YPI will remember her commitment to the next generation of American playwrights, her brilliant mind, and her remarkable laugh. We offer condolences to Wendy's family and her friends throughout the theater community. Alfred Uhry, Chairman Janet Brenner, President Sheri Goldhirsch, Artistic Dir.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board and staff of the Actors' Fund of America extend our deepest sympathies to the family and many friends of our National Board of Advisors member and former Trustee. Wendy's work overflows with priceless wit and staggering truths that cut right to our hearts. As a playwright, she defined a generation. As a person, she defined generosity of spirit. As we mourn this unfathomable loss, we remember her words--''Don't live down to expectations. Go out there and do something remarkable.'' Brian Stokes Mitchell, Pres. Joseph Benincasa, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of the New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, one of Broadway's brightest lights, sister of our board member Bruce Wasserstein, and devoted friend to many of us. We will miss her brilliance and wit. Our thoughts are with her daughter Lucy Jane, and the family and friends who love her. Brooke Garber Neidich, Chair Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Wendy Wasserstein. With her family we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of her life and her brilliant creativities shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved her. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Directors, artists, and staff of the MacDowell Colony are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Wendy Wasserstein. Wendy, a Colony Fellow and member of the Board for 17 years, contributed her passion, joy, wit, and intellect to helping other creative artists find their voice. Her singular voice and friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her daughter and family.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the death of Wendy Wasserstein, es teemed member and friend, and a source of inspiration. Her wit, wisdom and gentle nature will be missed by all who loved and admired her. Deepest sympathy is extended to her family and colleagues. Westina Matthews Shatteen President, Women's Forum
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of a cherished member of our congregational family whose graciousness and generous spirit ennobled our community. Our heartfelt sympathy to the family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Martin Berman, Chairman Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Trustees of the Princess Grace Foundation-USA extends its condolences to the family of Wendy Wasserstein. The Foundation was honored to have worked with her on more than one occasion. Ms. Wasserstein's artistic approach to life and work was an inspiration to all who knew her.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board and Staff of the National Book Foundation mourn the passing of Wendy Wasserstein, former member of the Board, host of the National Book Awards, and active supporter of our work. Deborah E. Wiley, Chairman Harold Augenbraum, Executive Director
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. On behalf of Jeff Gural and the entire Newmark Knight Frank organization we wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the Wasserstein family on the passing of Wendy. She will be truly missed. Newmark Knight Frank
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. Michael Weller, Joan Firestone, Angelina Fiordellisi and Cherry Lane Theatre Company deeply regret the passing of our beloved Mentor, Colleague, Friend, generous spirit and extraordinary woman. We will miss you.
      