
        MURREN--John Robert, M.D. 1958-2005 December 28, 2005. John Robert Murren, M.D., 47, renowned medical oncologist, researcher, associate professor of medicine at Yale University and founder of Nevada Cancer Institute succumbed to a noble battle with melanoma on December 28, 2005 at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, MD, while surrounded by his family. His life was dedicated to discovery, healing and the advancement of humanity. He was the essence of a gentle-man. Dr. Murren was a third generation resident of Fairfield. He was a graduate of Roger Ludlowe High School, with Honors. Dr. Murren was renowned as a medical oncologist and cancer researcher specializing in the treatment and prevention of lung cancer. Since 1992, he had been awarded grant funding to study cancer drug therapies yielding invaluable contributions to the understanding of the effectiveness of cancer drug therapies, particularly chemotherapy. He was the chief of the Yale Medical Oncology Outpatient Clinic and director of the Lung Cancer Unit at the Yale Cancer Center in New Haven, CT. He earned his B.A. in Chemistry and History from Duke University cum laude followed by his M.D. in 1984 from the Loyola - Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago. He completed his internship and residency in Internal Medicine at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York where he was chief resident. In 1988, Dr. Murren accepted a postdoctoral fellowship in Medical Oncology at the Yale-New Haven Hospital where he was an attending physician as well as an associate professor of Medicine. For the Nevada Cancer Institute, Dr. Murren was one of its early visionaries and founders. The articulation of his vision to bring research-based medicine to Nevada resulted in the founding of the institute in 2002, and the creation of a 142,000 square foot facility in Las Vegas that is dedicated to researching, preventing, detecting, caring and curing cancer. He served on the institute's Board of Directors as well as an adjunct faculty member. At Yale, Dr. Murren had the largest clinical practice at the Cancer Center and treated thousands of patients and their families over a distinguished career. As a researcher, he was exceptionally gifted and his clinical research widely published. He sat on several peer review Boards and was sought out worldwide for his expertise. He was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Frisbee Foundation. In addition to his clinical, educational and research endeavors, Dr. Murren served on the Clinical Research Subcommittee of the American Association of Cancer Research and the American College of Surgeons Cancer Committee. He also served as co-chair of Novel Therapeutics for the American Association of Cancer Research National Meeting in 2001. He was a member of the Research Grants Council in Hong Kong and was an active lecturer and writer. Dr. Murren is survived by Nancy, his wife; John, his son; Jean Perkins Murren, his mother; Jim and Michael, his brothers and Kathie, his sister as well as sisters-in-law: Heather Hay Murren and Mary Kay Murren and brothers - in - law George Koether as well as Jeff and Bill Hughes and wives, family and mother-inlaw, Doris Hughes, as well as several nieces and nephews as well as Chessie, his dog, that he truly loved and was loved in return. He was predeceased by his father, Connecticut State Representative and Atty. John Henry Murren, who passed away on February 3, 1990 from melanoma at age 59. His grandfather, John P. Murren, D.D.S. was also a prominent dentist practicing in Fairfield. Dr. Murren led an active life in the Fairfield community. He was a parishioner of St. Thomas Roman Catholic Church. He enjoyed reading, skiing, tennis and especially watching his son, John, play ice hockey. A viewing will be held from 3 pm to 8pm on Tuesday, January 3, 2006 at Shaughnessey Funeral Home, 50 Reef Road, Fairfield, CT (06824). A Memorial Service will be held at 10am on Wednesday, January 4, 2006 at St. Thomas Roman Catholic Church, 1719 Post Rd, Fairfield, CT (06824), with a reception following. Internment services will be private. The Murren family expresses its appreciation for thoughts, prayers and support during this difficult time. The family requests that donations be made to Nevada Cancer Institute, 10000 W. Charleston Blvd, Las Vegas, NV 89135.
      