
        SILVERMAN--Marty. The entire Jarvie Commonweal Service mourns the death of this special man, humanitarian, and philanthropist extraordinaire. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Lorin and the entire Silverman family. Al Snider, Executive Director and CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. Your great and quiet good works and philanthropy brought light to the lives of millions. We will miss you. The Benowich Family
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris (a/k/a Marty). A true visionary he was born in 1912 in Troy, N.Y. to Eastern European immigrants of modest means; he worked without interruption from boyhood through his 93rd year. He bravely served his country in World War II entering the U.S. Army as a Private and retiring as a Major. As an infantry man he earned two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars, a Silver Star, four Battle Stars, and a Combat Infantry Badge. He then served as a lawyer assisting in the prosecution of Nazi war criminals. Together with his late wife Dorothy, he founded and grew a number of finance companies including National Equipment Rental which went public in the sixties. The company successfully pursued a case to the U.S. Supreme Court, where the principles it established became a cornerstone of jurisdictional law. Believing passionately in his responsibility to give back, he founded the Marty and Dorothy Silverman Foundation. He was particularly proud to be able to assist in the establishment of the Jewish Chapel at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, a Chair at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and support of bold initiatives at The Hebrew Home for the Aged, The Jewish Braille Institute, Chaim Sheba Medical Center in Israel and numerous non-profit agencies serving the elderly and at risk children. As part of his legacy of giving the 'gift of giving' to others, he conceived of FJC, a Foundation of Donor Advised Funds, which offers a wide range of innovative options to donors, non profit agencies and financial partners. He was officially recognized by New York State for his philanthropic achievements. He is survived by his three children, daughter-inlaw, nine grandchildren, granddaughter-in-law, great grandchild and a devoted companion, all of whom love him sooooo. He will be long remembered and sorely missed. Memorial service 10:45 AM, Sunday January 29, Ansche Chesed, West End Avenue & 100th St. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to FJC, 520 8th Ave, NYC 10018 (888-GIVE FJC).
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Morris ''Marty'' Silverman, a soaring figure of the Jewish community, esteemed philanthropist, and dear friend. Marty's lifetime of leadership was fueled by an overwhelming spirit of klal Yisrael and enriched the lives of millions in the U.S., Israel, and around the world. His historic commitment to the Jewish people, education, and other humanitarian causes were an expression of his passion and boundless generosity. That legacy of benevolence is carried on through the untiring efforts of his beloved son, Lorin Silverman and his wife, Patty, whose profound commitment has strengthened our ability to serve those in need. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Lorin and Patty; to Marty's daughters, Joan and Carol; to all his grandchildren and to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Marty. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of our long-time friend and visionary philanthropic leader who served on the YU Board of Trustees from 1985 to 1989 and was named an honorary trustee. A Benefactor of YU and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, he endowed the Dorothy and Marty Silverman Chair in Psychiatry at the medical school. In 1982 he was presented with an honorary doctor of humane letters degree. Our heartfelt condolences to his son Lorin (and Patty) Silverman and daughters Carol Silverman and Joan Silverman and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Marty. The Board and staff of DOROT are deeply saddened by the loss of our devoted and loyal benefactor, Marty Silverman. Marty, with his son Lorin, helped lay the foundation of our organization and continued to nurture it lovingly for more than two decades. Thousands of frail and isolated DOROT elderly have reaped the benefits of the Silverman creativity, vision and unstinting generosity. Always shunning the limelight, Marty leaves a shining beacon of good deeds and countless blessings, which will radiate for generations to come. We will sorely miss his warmth, unquenchable humor and great wisdom. Our hearts go out to Lorin, Patti, Seth and Allison and the entire Silverman family. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich Executive Director Paula Resnick and Phil Silverman Co-Presidents Joel Kazis and Anne Heyman Co-Chairs and the entire Board of Directors and staff of DOROT
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The entire Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale family has lost a great friend, visionary and champion. For over twenty years, Marty graciously gave his time, incredible counsel and support to assure the Hebrew Home's continuing leadership in the field of care for the elderly. Embracing the highest level of tzedakah, Marty was truly one of a kind, and although he was ''anonymous,'' he was indelible. We will miss him greatly and extend our sincere condolences to his children, Lorin, Patty (Lipshutz), Carol, Joan; grandchildren, Marc, Ama, Fae, Garey, Jeremy, Marna, David, Allison and Seth; and great-grandchild, Abigail. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale Jeffrey S. Maurer, Chairman Daniel Reingold President and CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Marty. The board, staff and volunteers of Jewish Child Care Association and our Two Together Tutoring Program mourn the loss of Marty Silverman, father of our good friend and longtime supporter Lorin Silverman. The Silverman family has offered inspiration, encouragement and support to JCCA and, since its beginnings in the 1960's, to our Two Together Tutoring Program. Two Together, one-on-one tutoring for schoolchildren with a trained volunteer, was the brainchild of Dorothy Silverman, Marty's wife. The program has helped many hundreds of children with learning difficulties to flourish academically. We are grateful to Marty and his entire family for their vision and generosity. He will be missed. Leonard Elman, President Barbara B. Mann,Chair Richard Altman, CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The entire Reingold Family grieves the loss of this very special man. Marty was brilliant, funny, wise, generous and warm. His creativity and energy were formidable and he used them to make the world so much better. He was an incredible teacher, leaving three generations who understand the importance of using their unique skills and talents to continue on the journey he started. He was the greatest of the greatest generation. He was an American hero, and our hero too. We hope that Lorin, Patty, Carol, Joan and the entire Silverman family and longtime companion Georgie will be comforted by the happy memories of this truly remarkable man. Daniel Reingold and Family
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of Marty Silverman. He was a true philanthropist who believed in the values of community. He gave anonymously and thoughtfully. His wisdom will be missed by all; his love will be missed by his family. We extend our condolences to his family: Lorin and Patty, Joan, Carol and the grandchildren. Gene D. Resnick, M.D. Chairman Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System Board Audrey Weiner, DSW President and CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The Board and employees of FJC and Answer America mourn the death of Morris ''Marty'' Silverman. His devotion to senior citizens, Jewish causes and education was unparalleled. Marty's vision and generosity to the Albany area has changed it forever. His innovative mind was always at work, and his spirit will live on in the hearts of the many people he touched. We extend condolences to his son Lorin and wife Patty, daughters Carol & Joan, and to all of his grandchildren.
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The Hunter College community notes with sorrow the loss of our beloved friend, colleague and benefactor. Marty's vision and generosity helped Hunter College's Brookdale Center on Aging become a leader on the issues facing an urban aging population. We extend our deepest sympathy to Lorin and the entire family. Jennifer J. Raab, President Hunter College
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris (Marty). Marty was a truly great man-WWII hero, extraordinary businessman, generous philanthropist, and loving and beloved friend. I will miss him and extend my condolences to Lorin and the other members of his bereaved family. Rose Dobrof
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris. Our friend and colleague Marty taught us so much and so well. We will miss him always. Audrey Weiner and Jeffrey Solomon
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. Human Rights First extends its condolences to the family of Marty Silverman, loving father, model citizen, philanthropist and humanitarian.
      