
        BRONFMAN--Andrea. United Jewish Communities and its leadership mourn the untimely death of Andrea Bronfman, beloved wife and partner of UJC's first chair of the Board, Charles Bronfman. She was 61. The Bronfmans have made an indelible mark on Jewish life in Canada, the United States, Israel and elsewhere around the world, evoking the most cherished Jewish values of tzedakah (charity) and repairing the world. The innovative birthright israel program, which the Bronfmans, UJC/federations and other major leaders supported, has nurtured the Jewish identities of thousands of young Jews with free first-time trips to Israel. The family's many charitable endeavors reflected Andrea's tireless spirit, determination and generosity and served as a model for the community. Through the Andrea and Charles Bronfman Philanthropies--a family of charitable foundations -- where Andrea served as co-chair, she supported initiatives that strengthened the unity of the Jewish people. Her husband, Charles and their children Jeremy and Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, Ellen and Andrew, and Stephen and Claudine, and their six grandchildren, share her vision of supporting the Jewish people around the world. Her legacy will shape the Jewish community for generations to come. May Andrea's memory be a blessing and may the entire Bronfman family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Robert Goldberg, Chair of the Board Morton B. Plant, Chair, The Executive Committee Kathy Manning, Treasurer Howard M. Rieger, President and CEO $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Andrea Bronfman, a dear friend and one of the community's leading and most innovative philanthropists, whose lifetime commitment to Israel and the arts made an indelible mark on our community and the Jewish people. Andy grew up in a family of early Zionist leaders and she continued the family legacy in her adult years. Together with her beloved husband, Charles, Andy earned enormous respect as a leader, building a legacy of unwavering dedication to the Jewish people through her support of a broad range of institutions, including the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and birthright israel. The Bronfman and Morrison families' historic commitment to Jewish life and Israel was built on a foundation of unparalleled generosity and vision. Such dedication continues today through the family and is imbued with the spirit of klal Yisrael. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Charles; to their children, Jeremy & Marci, Pippa, Tony & Moira, Ellen & Andrew, and Stephen & Claudine; to their grandchildren, Danielle, Scott, Talia, Lila, Drew, and Alexandra; to Andy's sister, Kappy Flanders; to Andy's aunt, Elaine Winik, a past chair of UJA-Federation's Board of Directors; to Edgar Bronfman; and to their entire families. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O. $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Jewish Museum deeply mourns the untimely, tragic death of Andrea Bronfman. In concert with her husband Charles, Andy was a singular catalyst and passionate advocate for ensuring the future of Jewish identity among a generation of young adults. Their efforts in the spheres of education, culture and politics have been extraordinary in its idealism and generosity. A Museum trustee since 1994, Andy especially championed projects that brought increased exposure to Israeli artists and designers, and that recognized the achievements of Jewish women, past and present. Her clear and insightful voice will be missed in innumerable ways but most especially in the deliberations of the Museum's Exhibitions Committee where she consistently inspired us to reach new standards. Our heartfelt condolences go to Charles, to all members of the family, and to our colleagues at the philanthropies and organizations to which she was so deeply devoted. Leni May, Chairman Barry Alperin, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff, along with the entire membership of the IPO, mourn the tragic passing of our dear friend and life member of the International Board. Andrea's generosity and commitment to Israel, the arts and Jewish life was inspirational. We offer our heartfelt sympathies to her husband, Charles, her children and grandchildren and all of the members of the Bronfman, Morrison and Cohen families. Zubin Mehta Itzhak Perlman Co-Chairmen Lynn Syms, President David A. Hirsch Charles I. Petschek Lauren Veronis Elaine Wolfensohn Vice Presidents Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Dir. Zeev Dorman, Chairman IPO Management Avi Shoshani IPO Secretary-General $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation mourns the untimely death of our friend, role model and leader Andrea Bronfman. The Jewish world is bereft, having lost a philanthropist totally dedicated to the welfare of our people, to Israel, to the needy and to the outsiders in this country, in Israel and around the world. Her thoughtful compassion for those who mourned for 9/11 will always be remembered. We express our deepest condolences to her loving husband, our devoted partner Charles Bronfman, and the entire family in this moment of heartbreak. May you be comforted with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael H. Steinhardt, Chairman Rabbi Yitz Greenberg, President Rabbi David Gedzelman, Executive Director $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. It is with profound sadness that the Charles and Lynn Schusterman Family Foundation notes the tragic death of Andrea Bronfman. We will remember Andrea for her love of Israel and of the Jewish people, for her celebration of life through her support of the arts and culture, and for her tremendous generosity. She worked tirelessly to strengthen the connection between Israel and the Diaspora through art and education. Much more than just a colleague, she was a dear friend and she will be deeply missed. Our hearts go out to her husband Charles and to her entire family. Lynn Schusterman, President Stacy Schusterman, V.P. Sandy Cardin, Exec. Dir. David Gappell, Dir. The Schusterman Foundation, Israel $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea (Andy). The Board of Directors, Advisory Board, Medical Advisory Board and staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the tragic and untimely death of our beloved friend and dedicated Advisory Board member, Andy Bronfman. Her selfless generosity and exuberance for life set an example for us all. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles, and to all of their children and grandchildren. She will be greatly missed. A light has gone out in our lives. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President Larry Norton, MD, Scientific Director $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. With profound shock and sorrow, we mourn the loss of our dear friend and founder of The Gift of New York, Andrea Bronfman. Andrea's compassion and caring for families of those lost in the 9/11 attacks were the stimulus for this program which helped the families mourning their loved ones gain some comfort and enjoyment from the free access to New York's theatrical, artistic, cultural, sports and entertainment venues provided through our program. She was our leader, our soul and inspiration, and we will remember her always. We offer our deepest condolences to her husband, Charles, and her entire family. The Gift of New York $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Hillel joins the Bronfman family in mourning the loss of beloved Andrea Bronfman. Andy was a devoted supporter of Israel and Jewish education promoting a host of innovative iniatives to engage more and more Jews in the beauty of their heritage. She embodied the spirit of Jewish life, bursting with energy, enthusiasm, passion and creativity. This is a tragic loss for the Bronfman family, Hillel and the Jewish people. Intl Bd of Governors Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. Tel Aviv University deeply mourns the tragic death of Andrea Bronfman, Honorary Doctor and great friend of the University. Profound condolences to Charles and the family. Michael Steinhardt, Chairman of the Board of Governors Dov Lautman, Chairman of the Executive Council Prof. Itamar Rabinovich, President Joel D. Tauber, Chairman, TAU: American Council Sam A. Witkin, President, TAU: American Council $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely death of dear friend Andy Bronfman. The Bronfman family has supported the Museum for more than 40 years. We extend deepest sympathy to Charles and the entire family. Jack Nash, Judy Steinhardt Board co-chair, AFIM Stephen S. Lash, Pres., AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Foundation for Ethnic Understanding mourns the tragic passing of a great humanitarian and tireless advocate who together with her beloved husband Charles have been generous supporters in our efforts to strengthen intergroup relations. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier, Pres. Russell Simmons, Chairman Lawrence Kopp, Exec. Dir. $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Trustess and Staff of the Museum of Arts & Design are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our dear friend and long-time supporter, Andrea Bronfman. Our heartfelt sympathies to her husband, Charles, and the entire family. Barbara Tober Chairman Holly Hotchner Director $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. American Jewish World Service mourns the tragic passing of Andrea Bronfman, a devoted humanitarian and philanthropist whose generosity and compassion infused Jewish life throughout the world. Our prayers are with her husband Charles and the entire Bronfman family. Marty Friedman, Chair Ruth Messinger, President $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Foundation for Jewish Camping notes with profound sadness the tragic loss of our supporter and friend, Andrea Bronfman. We extend out sincere condolences to Charles, their children, and to the Bronfman family. Elisa Spungen Bildner, Co-chair Rob Bildner, Co-Chair Jerry Silverman, President $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andy. Her warmth, her wit, her very presence will be so greatly missed. Her friendship became part of our lives and for that we will be forever grateful. Our most heartfelt condolences to Charles and their entire families. Steve Novick Evan Galen
      