
        BRENDER--Edward, CPA, MBA, LLB, of Fresh Meadows, NY, passed away suddenly on New Year's Day after a long fight with diabetes, hypertension and renal failure. He was survived by his loving wife, Ruth; and their three sons: Elliott Brender, MD, his wife, Julie, and their two children, Jacob and Cady of Villa Park, CA.; William Brender, MD, his wife, Amy, his three children, Jessica, Jared and Matthew, and his two grandchildren, Aaden and Mattilyn of Glens Falls, NY; Colonel Arnold Brender, MD, his wife, Therese, and their two children, Dana and Joseph of Huntington Beach, CA. Mr. Brender was born in Brooklyn, NY, on April 29, 1920, to Jacob (Gerson) Brender and Sadie (Rosenberg) Brender. He was a member of the US Army Corp from 1941-1945 and attained the rank of Sergeant. He married Ruth Goldstein while on furlough on May 24, 1942. He was honorably discharged on December 26, 1945. He received his BBA in Accountancy and an MBA in Taxation and Business Administration from the City College of New York. He received his LLB from Blackstone College of Law and completed his PhD course work in graduate studies at NYU. He was inducted into the Alpha Beta Psi Accounting Honor Society at City College and was in the Omicron Delta Epsilon Economics Honor Society at New York University. He worked for the City of New York in the Department of Finance, in the Capital Budget Division of City Planning and finally in the Department of Air Resource as the Chief Fiscal officer of Budget and Planning. He was also a professor of Accounting at Baruch College, NYC and had his own private accounting practice. He had a natural talent for art and enjoyed drawing, oil painting, and watercolor. He studied at the Arts Student League in NYC and was a member of the Association of Queens Artists. He studied watercolor with John Gallucci, AWS. In his latter years he enjoyed writing poetry and his works included The Poetry of Wall Street, his memoirs of WWII and a self-help book called ''How to Avoid Poverty and Accumulate Wealth''. Mr. Brender was buried at Mt. Ararat Cemetery in South Farmingdale, NY, following a private family service. There are no established calling hours for the family. Donations may be made in his name to the American Diabetes Association or the Association for the Blind.
      