
        DINKES--Linda, on January 5, 2006. Beloved wife of William for over 40 years. Loving mother of Jill and Daniel Efron, Jodi and Mark Hurwitz and Jamie and Scott Berger. Adoring grandmother of Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy and Jordan. Devoted daughter of Tobie Plofsky. Most loyal friend to all. She will be deeply missed by all of us who loved her. Service Sunday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. With great sorrow and heavy hearts, we send our condolences to the Dinkes family on the passing of Mrs. Linda Dinkes. Linda was an amazing person and friend. She provided a tremendous amount of support and strength, not just to the firm of Dinkes & Schwitzer, Esq., but to each of us personally. She opened her heart and made us a part of her family. We admired her and the love she gave to everyone around her. Linda, we will miss you. William Schwitzer, William Hamel Beth Diamond
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. The staff of Dinkes & Schwitzer extends our heartfelt condolences to the family of Linda Dinkes. Words can't express the sorrow we feel since you can't put into words the love and appreciation you have for a friend. Mrs. Dinkes was adored and greatly respected by the entire staff. Her bright smile will never be forgotten. It was truly an honor to know her and her spirit and her love will live on in our hearts forever.
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. Your sense of humor and courage were remarkable. You can be proud of the legacy you left to your wonderful family. We cherished your friendship and you will live in our hearts forever. Francine & Murray
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. We will always cherish the wonderful times we shared. Billy, Jill, Jodi, Jamie and their families will be in our lives forever. Rest easy, sweet friend. Joan and Roger
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. Not having had the opportunity to attend Linda's funeral, I send my condolences to Bill Dinkes and his family. Benedict P. Morelli
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. Dear sweet Buttercup, I will miss you and our card games. Much Love, Fern
        $(6$)DINKES -- Linda. Grandma, we will miss you forever. Love, Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy & Jordan
        $(6$)DINKES--Linda. Our profound sympathies to the entire Dinkes family. The Stoppelmann Family
      