
        HALPERN - Arie. Yeshiva University is deeply grieved on the passing of our cherished friend who, with his beloved wife, Eva, was a Benefactor of our institution and provided scholarship aid for deserving and needy undergraduate students. With his admiring and inseparable brother, Sam (and Gladys) Halpern, also YU Benefactors, to whom we extend heartfelt condolences, he was a major supporter of Jewish education and the State of Israel. May his children: Bella (and George) Savran, Shelly (and Joseph) Paradis, Nanette (and Arthur) Brenver, and Harry (and Sherry) Stein and Ben Stein, his grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nephews and nieces all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        $(6$)HALPERN--Arie. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Arie Halpern, beloved husband of Eva; father of Bella, Shelley, Nanette, Henry and Ben; brother of Sam; brother-in-law of Gladys; uncle of Israel Bonds National Chairman David Halpern. Deeply imbued with the spirit of Judaism, Arie Halpern was a passionate advocate for Israel, an inspiring leader of the Jewish community, and a great friend and supporter of Israel Bonds. Our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may his memory be for a blessing. Joshua Matza President & CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board
        $(6$)HALPERN--Arie. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of Arie Halpern, a business leader, builder of Jewish communities, philanthropist, and our dear friend. His life of Torah and Mitzvot will continue to thrive through the deeds of his family. To his wife Eva and their children, Bella and George, Shelly and Josef, Nanette and Arthur, Ben, and Sherry and Henry, his grandchildren, his brother Sam, and his family, we pray that you are comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Cecile and Edward Mosberg, Beatrice Mosberg, Louise and Stuart Levine Caroline and Darren Karger, and families
        $(6$)HALPERN--Arie. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American and International Societies for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Arie Halpern, Benefactor of Yad Vashem. He was a Holocaust survivor who contributed greatly to the cause of Remembrance. He is survived by his beloved wife, Eva, children and grandchildren. Condolences to the entire Halpern family. Eli Zborowski, Chairman Joseph Wilf, Vice Chairman American and International Societies for Yad Vashem
      