
        HAMBRECHT--Edward, 70. Internationally renowned retail architect, who enjoyed a distinguished 40 year career as a leader in the retail design industry, died at home Saturday after a long battle with multiple myeloma. Together with James E. Terrell, he cofounded Hambrecht Terrell International (HTI) in 1980 and served as CEO and Chairman. His expertise in both the business and creative aspects of retail design, enabled the firm to grow to one of the most prestigious retail design companies worldwide, with clients such as: Bloomingdales, Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's, Museum of Modern Art Design Store, Marshall Field's, May Company, Rich's and Neiman Marcus, in the United States and Selfridge's, Harrod's, House of Fraser, Edgar's, Myer Grace Bros., Odakyu, Hankyu, Tang's and Mesbla, overseas. The firm won numerous awards for its architectural and interior design projects and was consistently recognized in the leading industry publications. Prior to founding HTI, Ed directed planning and construction for May Company California, as Senior Vice President, from 1978 to 1980. The seven years prior to that, he headed the interiors division at Copeland, Novak & Israel (CNI), a leading retail design firm based in New York. From 1963 to 1971 he served as Chief Architect for the JC Penney Company. He began his career as an architect at RH Macy & Co after spending five years in the U.S. Marine Corps reserves. Born in Queens, NY in 1935, Ed was raised in Bergenfield, NJ. He graduated from Pratt Institute with a Bachelor of Architecture degree in 1958 and was a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), a Legion of Honor member of the Institute of Store Planners (ISP) and a member of the American Arbitration Association. Ed was a frequent speaker on retail and design trends throughout his career and delivered the keynote address at the Fourth Asian Retail Convention in Singapore and has addressed the National Retail Federation in New York, the Intercontinental Group of Department Stores in New York, Berlin and Stockholm. Edward is survived by his wife of forty-three years, Margaret Curtis; sons Stephen, Roy, Eric and Christian and nine grandchildren. The family will be receiving well wishers at Christ Church, Franklin Ave & Cottage Place in Ridgewood, NJ on Thursday January 26, 2006 from 3:00 to 5:00 PM and 7:00 to 9:00 PM. The funeral service will be held at Christ Church Ridgewood on Friday January 27 at 2:00 PM.
      