
        MAKRIANES--James K Jr. The Trustees, the Womens Board and the staff of The Boys Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to his wife, Judy and the family of their dear friend. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1976. His generosity, good humor and commitment to the welfare of youth will be remembered by us all with deep affection. Jim was appointed Honorary Trustee of The Boys Club of New York in 2005. While his steadfast commitment to BCNYs mission was felt at all levels of the organization, it was his belief that international travel was a critically important aspect of a young person's education that distinguished his term of service. In 1999, Jim helped organize and lead a trip to the Peoples Republic of China for 20 young scholar athletes. As friend, supporter and Trustee, Jim embodied The Boys Club of New Yorks core principles of character, civility and community. The Boys' Club of New York
        $(6$)MAKRIANES--James K., Jr., 81. Of New York and East Hampton, N.Y. Suddenly on February 10, 2006, in Florida. Predeceased by wife Susan Lantz of Long Meadow, MA. Tremendously loving to and loved by his wife of 45 years, Judy, and his children Mary McLaughlin, James S. Makrianes, Susan Williams, Jane Makrianes and Mahady Otte. Cherished grandfather of Gavin, Callum, Andrew, Maisie, Lia, James III, Isabel, Tony, Nile and Rocket. A graduate of Amherst College in 1949 after serving in the U.S. Navy, he went on to have a distinguished executive career at Young & Rubicam, Haley Associates, Ward Howell and Webb Johnson. His warm and generous spirit and infectious love of Dixieland jazz will be sorely missed by his family and many great friends of all generations. A celebration of his life will take place in East Hampton at a later date. Contributions may be made in remembrance of his longstanding dedication to the Boys Club of New York, 287 East 10th Street, New York, NY 10009, or to the East Hampton Health Care Center, 200 Pantigo Place, East Hampton, NY 11937.
      