
        LOH--Suzette H.,who was a partner at Eisner LLP, one of the 20 largest regional accounting and advisory firms in the country, died of cancer February 1 at her Scarsdale home. She would have been 45 later this month. A graduate of the Phillips Exeter Academy and Barnard College, Suzette served as financial advisor to trusts, estates, and private foundations, as well as wealthy individuals and their families. Suzette had spoken before various groups and organizations on financial planning, including the NYU Institute of Law and Taxation, the Practising Law Institute, the New York Women's Bar Association, the Network for Women's Services and many others. She taught personal financial planning at the undergraduate and professional levels at Marymount Manhattan College and Iona College. She also appeared on WNBC, CNN, and other media outlets to answer questions on personal financial planning. Active in ChineseAmerican community affairs, she was a past president of the Asian Financial Society and the Westchester Chapter of the Organization of Chinese-Americans. She was also a trustee of The Sister Fund, founded by Helen LaKelly Hunt. She is survived by her husband, Antonio Lee, and her sons Theodore and Thomas, aged 10 and 4. Her father and mother, retired Taiwanese ambassador-atlarge I-cheng Loh and Mrs. Jane Y. Loh; brother Dr. Willie H. Loh and sister-in law Jean C. Loh and their two daughters; and brother Philip H. Loh were all in attendance. A non-denominational service will be held at BallardDurand Funeral Home at 2 Maple Ave, White Plains at 10 A.M. Saturday, February 4th. Internment will follow at Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, also in Westchester County. In lieu of flowers, the family respectfully requests that contributions be sent to The Sister Fund (www.sisterfund.org).
        $(6$)LOH--Suzette H. The partners and staff at Eisner LLP mourn the passing of our esteemed partner Suzette H. Loh. Suzette was an exemplary partner. In all her work she brought keen intelligence, immense dedication and consummate integrity. All of the people at our firm, her clients, and her friends had tremendous respect for her and her abilities. During her career with Eisner she was an integral part of our personal financial planning, tax, and legal support services departments. We are indeed all fortunate to have known her and worked with her. We express our heartfelt condolences to her husband Tony, her children Teddy and Tommy, and her family.
      