
        McINERNEY -- Denis, died peacefully at home on January 31, 2006. Beloved husband of Irene Murphy McInerney. Devoted father of Kathleen O'Hare, Denis J. McInerney and Maura Romano. He is also survived by eight grandchildren. The family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Road, Rye, New York on Thursday from 7-9 p.m., and Friday from 2-4 and 7-9 p.m. Mass of Christian Burial will be on Saturday at 10 a.m. at the Church of the Resurrection, 910 Boston Post Road, Rye, New York. His interment will follow at the Greenwood Union Cemetery, Rye, New York. In lieu of flowers, the McInerney family requests that any donations be made to the McInerney Scholarship for Public Service, Fordham Law School, 140 West 62nd Street, New York, New York 10023.
        McINERNEY--Denis. Fordham University and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our alumnus and colleague, Denis McInerney. A graduate of both Fordham College and Fordham Law School, he was a valued member of the Fordham University Board of Trustees from 1988 to 1994. Fordham was proud to award our distinguished alumnus and honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1996 in recognition of his many accomplishments. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Irene, and their family. John N. Tognino, Chair of the Board Joseph M. McShane, S.J., President
        McINERNEY -- Denis. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP are profoundly saddened by the passing of Denis McInerney, our distinguished former partner and friend of over 40 years. The former President of the New York County Lawyers Association, and a Fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers, he was a skilled advocate at every level including the U.S. Supreme Court. He served his country, his profession, his community and his faith. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Irene, and his three children, Kathleen O'Hare, Denis J. and Maura Romano.
        McINERNEY -- Denis. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division First Judicial Department mark with sadness the passing of a great friend of the Court. As Chair of the Departmental Disciplinary Committee from 1996-2002 and later as Special Counsel he served the Court with distinction. His dedication and wisdom will be remembered as his legacy. John T. Buckley Presiding Justice
        McINERNEY -- Denis. The New York County Lawyers' Association mourns the passing of Denis McInerney, our president from 1982-1984. He was a distinguished leader of both the Association and the profession. Norman L. Reimer, President
      