
        SUESHOLTZ--Henrick Daniel ''Herb''. 91, Pioneer in TV and Picture - framing industries. Herb Suesholtz was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn in 1914. In 1935 he received a degree in chemical engineering from prestigious Cooper Union. During the war years he worked for RCA under an important government contract. Mr. Suesholtz was among the lead engineers in developing the radar tubes utilized by American navel vessels. This experience led him to a similar position with RCA following the war's conclusion. In 1946 Mr. Suesholtz left RCA to join tiny Transvision of New Rochelle, NY. He would eventually become president of the company and under his stewardship Transvision became the nation's third leading manufacturer of TV sets, trailing only Zenith and RCA. In addition, Mr. Suesholtz's leadership enabled Transvision to accomplish some firsts in the industry. Such innovations that are now taken for granted -remote control units, cable systems, and ''educational TV'' were introduced by Transvision. During the 1950's Transvision established a picturetube plant in Cuba only to have it ''nationalized'' by Cuba's communist regime. In fact, Mr. Suesholtz was in Cuba at the time Castro and his pary seized power. Though he lost his factory, Mr. Suesholtz did make friends among his Cuban employees, helping several to escape to the U.S. Though he left the television industry in the early 60's, Mr. Suesholtz carried his innovative spirit with him to his next endeavor. In 1969 he acquired the Gaines picture frame moulding factory, renamed it Gaines-American Moulding Corp., and introduced perhaps the greatest change in that industry with the introduction of ''chop service.'' This enabled many entrepreneurs with little money to establish their own businesses. First met with almost unanimous opposition from the industry, ''chop service'' is now such a staple of the framing industry that it is more or less taken for granted. From 1982 until his death Mr. Suesholtz worked as an independent sales rep., but never lost his zeal for innovation and invention, evidenced by his registration of four U.S. patents that continue to shape the picture-framing industry. He was noted for stating, many times, that the only disappointment of his life was the loss of his son, Jay B., to leukemia in 1990. However, Mr. Suesholtz is survived by his wife, Florence Monaco Suesholtz of Harrison, NY, son William Suesholtz of Harrison, daughters Wendy Chazin and Amy Cooper of Manhattan, step-son Robert Miraglia of Arizona, and grandson Christipher Chazin of Manhattan. Mr. Suesholtz's family will be receiving friends on Friday between 12 noon and 1PM. Interment to follow at the Greenwood Union Cemetery, Rye, NY. Harrison Funeral Home, 329 Halstead Avenue, Harrison, NY 10528. 914-835-0282
      