
        BENINGSON--Renee Doris. Passed away on February 16, 2006, following a brief illness. She is survived by her husband of 52 years Bob, her daughters Robin and Susan, her sons by choice Joseph and William Coplin, her grandchildren by choice Max, Hannah and Maxine and an extended family. Renee lived an eclectic life as teacher, social worker, successful businesswoman, avid art collector, world traveller and activist in a variety of charities. Her passion for family and her sense of adventure enriched not only the lives of her extended and expanding family but all with whom she had contact. She founded with her daughter Robin, Antiquarium Ltd. Fine Ancient Arts Gallery in which she remained an active partner with Robin and Joseph. She was a graduate of Hunter College, with a degree in Social Work. While participating actively in many institutions and charitable organizations, she was currently serving on the executive board of the American Friends of the Israel Museum, an organization that was close to her heart for nearly 30 years. Funeral services will be held at Temple Beth-El, 350 Roxbury Rd., Stamford, CT, on Monday, February 20 at 12 noon. The family will be receiving at home, in Stamford following the service. Shiva will be at their home Monday and Tuesday evenings, 7 PM. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to Stamford Hospital or the American Friends of the Israel Museum.
        BENINGSON--Renee. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Renee Beningson. She was a devoted friend and ardent supporter of the Museum for three decades. We extend deepest sympathy to Bob, Robin, Susan, Joe and the entire family. Judy Steinhardt Co-Chair, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Director IM Monique Birenbaum Executive Director, AFIM
        BENINGSON -- Renee. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Charles Roden, President
      