
        FAGAN--Msgr. John T. A priest of the diocese of Brooklyn for more than 50 years died peacefully on February 9 at Little Flower Children and Family Services in Wading River, NY. Beloved brother of Msgr. Robert Emmet Fagan, Jane Fucigna, Helen Marie Murphy and Kathleen Fagan RSHM and brother-in-law to John Fucigna and James Murphy. He was a devoted uncle of JT Fucigna, Robert Fucigna, Brian Fucigna, Michael Fucigna, JaneEllen Logler, Kathleen Murphy, Elizabeth Cooke, Helen Marie Sweeney, Kristin Hubschman, James Murphy 1V (deceased), and numerous grandnieces and grandnephews. Ordained in 1952 he served in Resurrection Ascension parish in Rego Park before being assigned to Little Flower Children and Family Services in 1959. Putting the needs of children first in all decision making, he was a champion on behalf of children and families for his entire life. The oldest in a loving family, he was deeply sensitive to the importance of family for every child. A lover of people and life he shared his humor and kindness with everyone. His respect, reverence, and delight in each person made him loved by all. Visiting hours at Little Flower Chapel, Wading River, from 2PM to 5PM on Friday, February 10. Mass of Transferral, St. Mark's Church, Shoreham, 8PM on Friday, February 10, preceded by viewing from 7PM to 8PM. Mass of Christian Burial on Saturday, February 11, at 10AM at the Immaculate Conception Center, Douglaston, NY. Interment Holy Cross Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY In Lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the ''Fr. Fagan Angel Fund'' at Little Flower Children and Family Services, 2450 North Wading River Road, Wading River, NY 11972. For information: Fredrick J. Chapey & Sons West Islip Funeral Home.
        $(6$)FAGAN--Msgr. John T. In honor and memory of our beloved friend Monsignor John T. Fagan. A man of great spirituality, righteousness and respect for everyone regardless of race or religion. A man that gave so much of himself to the enhancement of other people's lives; a man who fostered all that is good within humanity so that each of us in every way could feel good about ourselves and fulfill our promise. He will sorely be missed by all those he touched throughout his life. Father Fagan was truly an inspiration for everyone from every walk of life. May God gently accept this blessed man into the gates of heaven. Barry J. Jacobson, Larry A. Wohl, Frank Zimbaro and the staff of Joseph P. Day Realty Corp.
        $(6$)FAGAN--John T. Monsignor. Mary Mount School of New York mourns the passing of Monsignor John T. Fagan, beloved brother of Sister Kathleen Fagan, Headmistress of Mary Mount London and Headmistress Emerita of Mary Mount New York. Monsignor Fagan lived an extraordinary life of compassion, devoted to the care of children in need. He will be dearly missed. Our community extends its deepest sympathy to the entire Fagan family.
      