
        KOSTELANETZ--Boris. On January 31, 2006. A gentleman lawyer. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Loving father of Lucy and Richard and cherished grandfather of Eliza. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        $(6$)KOSTELANETZ--Boris. The NYU community mourns the loss of Boris Kostelanetz, alumnus, faculty member, trustee, and cherished friend. After receiving a bachelor's degree from NYU's Leonard N. Stern School of Business and a brief period as a CPA, he went on to law school and a distinguished career as an attorney in both the public and private sectors. He shared his knowledge, teaching both accounting and taxation at NYU. He was a devoted alumnus throughout his life: he was the president of the Stern School Alumni Association and the NYU Alumni Federation, and an associate trustee of the University. He was the recipient of important University awards, including the Meritorious Service Award and a Presidential Citation. For his selflessness, his integrity, his devotion to knowledge and public service, and his dedication to NYU, he will be greatly missed. We offer our sympathies, and those of the entire NYU community, to his children, Lucy and Richard, and all his friends and loved ones. Martin Lipton, Chair NYU Board of Trustees John Sexton, President, NYU
        $(6$)KOSTELANETZ--Boris. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP deeply mourn the passing of our former partner, mentor, friend and colleague, Boris Kostelanetz, founder of the firm, defense lawyer extraordinaire, and grand old man of the criminal tax bar. He was a giant in his field, who cast a long shadow that will not soon fade. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his family.
        $(6$)KOSTELANETZ--Boris. The New York County Lawyers' Association mourns the passing of Boris Kostelanetz, the dean of our past presidents, who served as president from 1969-1971. He was a distinguished lawyer and a beloved friend. Norman L. Reimer, President
        $(6$)KOSTELANETZ--Boris. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas
      