
        SZUMLAK--Estera. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Gail Weisbrod, Akiva (Kenneth), Lana Chudkosky, Sister of Mikhail Yelin. loving grandmother of Yehuda, Sabrina, Lora and Christopher. Great-grandmother of Yair. Services Thursday 11:45AM ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.
        SZUMLAK--Estera. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our cherished founder and benefactor, Gail Weisbrod. To Gail and Michael, distinguished president of our congregation, and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory be a source of blessing and inspiration to all her loved ones. Rabbi Marc Schneier Martin Berman, Chairman Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        SZUMLAK -- Estera. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Estera Szumlak, beloved mother of our devoted members, Gail, Sisterhood Trustee, and Michael Weisbrod, grandmother of Yehuda and Lyat, and Sabrina. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier
        SZUMLAK--Estera. We mourn the passing of the beloved mother and motherin-law of Gail and Michael Weisbrod, our benefactors and friends. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Torat Hanachal Breslev Institute, Jerusalem Rabbi Moshe Bienenstock
        SZUMLAK--Estera. We mourn the passing of the beloved mother of Gail Weisbrod whom, together with her husband, Michael, generously endowed our Yeshiva Beis Eliezer. Ateret Shlomo Institutions Beit Shemesh, Israel Rabbi Shalom Sorotzkin
        SZUMLAK--Estera. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Gail and Michael Weisbrod and wife of the late David Szumlak for whom our yeshiva is named. Beis David Tshechnov Institutions Jerusalem Rabbi M.S. Beckerman
        SZUMLAK -- Estera. We mourn the passing of the cherished mother and mother-in-law of Gail and Michael Weisbrod, friends and benefactors of our institutions. Rabbi Nachman Bergstein Yeshivat Breslev B'nai Brak and Kiryat Sefer, Israel
        SZUMLAK--Estera. Park East Synagogue Sisterhood mourns the death of Estera Szumlak, mother of our devoted Board Member Gail Weisbrod. Condolences to the family. Lois Kirsh and Ninette Stiskin Co-Presidents
        SZUMLAK--Esther. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our dear friend Yehuda HaKohen, director of the English Speaking Division on the loss of his grandmother and to his mother, Gail Weisbrod on the loss of her mother. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Michael Kleiner Chairman, World Herut
      