
        SPEVOK--Gregory J. It is with deep regret that we announce the passing of Gregory J. Spevok, of Kenilworth, IL, on Sunday, January 29, 2006 in an auto accident. Beloved husband of Elisabeth (nee Pratt), loving father of Katherine, Eleanor, and Phillip, loved son of Stanley and Catherine. Greg was a Managing Director of the Corporate and Real Estate Capital Markets Groups at LaSalle Bank Corporation. He enjoyed an outstanding reputation at the forefront of the Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities business. Not only was Greg a charismatic and compelling leader, but he possessed an impressive technical command of the real estate lending business. In spite of his professional success, Greg was always humble and approachable. Competitors routinely sought his counsel, and, like those who worked with him, considered Greg to be a steadfast friend. His real estate lending career was extensive. Prior to LaSalle, he was the Director of Originations for Bear Stearns' CMBS unit, where he built the firm's nationwide source network as a member of the senior management team that repeatedly set the CMBS industry's record subordination levels. Previously, he established FINOVA Capital's East Coast commercial real estate lending practice. He also created and led the real estate lending program for Dai Ichi Kangyo Bank's Tokyo Leasing (USA). He began his career as an Analyst in the Financial Institutions Group of First National Bank of Chicago, for which he served in both Chicago and New York. His integrity, acumen and reputation, led to LaSalle Bank hiring Greg to head its CMBS operation out of Chicago. Under Greg's leadership, LaSalle Bank's CMBS unit met with great success. Greg oversaw the unit's growth from a nominal regional player to one of the dominant forces in real estate loan securitization. Greg also served as the driving force behind the emergence of the Bank's Multifamily Finance Group as a ''top 3'' provider of capital to the apartment and manufactured housing sectors. In 1992, he was the principal founder of the Real Estate Lender's Association, Inc., the largest lenders-only commercial real estate organization in the U.S. Other involvements include Sustaining Fellow of the Art Institute of Chicago; the Founder's Council of the Field Museum; the Real Estate Roundtable's Capital Advisory Policy committee; and the Board of Directors of the National Multi Housing Council. Services will be held Friday, 2:00 at the Holy Comforter Church, 222 Kenilworth Avenue, Kenilworth, Illinois. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to either the Joseph Sears School Foundation, or the Art Institute of Chicago. Greg was a passionate and insightful person, and will be deeply missed by his colleagues, friends, and family.
      