
        SHEBITZ--George. The law firm of Shebitz Berman & Cohen, P.C. is sad to announce the passing of its founding senior partner and visionary leader, George Shebitz, on February 8, 2006. He was 58. George was nationally recognized as a leading expert on education law. He began his public service as counsel and Deputy Director of the Office of Legal Services for the NYC Board of Education with then, Chancellor Frank Macchiorola. He worked tirelessly, selflessly and compassionately to protect the rights of children, persons with disabilities and the mistreated everywhere. George was admitted to the NY Bar in 1975. He was a frequent presenter at law and education seminars, as well as a lecturer at Bank Street College of Education and Fordham University. He served as a member of Governor Cuomo's Task Force on Youth and Criminal Justice. George's good work touched many lives. There was a special place in his heart, both in his legal and philanthropic work, for children with special needs and programs designed to help meet their educational goals, in recognition that everyone was entitled to a free and appropriate education. George and his wife Randi have been the recipients of numerous honors and awards. For the purpose of brevity only four are highlighted: Humanitarian of the Year by the Rockland Jewish Family Services; Humanitarian Award by the Association for the Advancement of the Blind and Retarded; Humanitarian of the Year and Board of Trustees Emeritus of the Rockland Country Day School; and Individual of the Year by P'Tach, a nationwide special education program. George sat on numerous boards of not-for-profit corporations including educational institutions ranging from early childhood programs to degree granting colleges, entertainment boards providing opportunities to young men and women, and entities serving the adult mentally retarded populations. George is survived by his loving wife Randi, his adoring children Daniela and Adam and son-in-law Sergio Capozzi, his precious grandson Jonah, his beloved sister Miriam Rappaport, his niece Elyse and nephews Jonathan and Andrew, and his brotherin-law, Nat Dembin. The funeral will take place on Thursday, February 9th, at 1:15 PM, at Riverside Chapel, W. 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., Manhattan. Burial will be following the service at New Montefiore Cemetery in Farmingdale, LI.
      