
        PHELAN--James Francis. after a gallant battle with cancer, died on Friday, February 24, 2006 at his East Side Manhattan home with his beloved wife Joy Tomlinson Phelan at his side. Devoted father of Patrician O'Donnell, John Phelan and Coral Gwyn - Williams. Adoring grandfather to James, Marissa, Sean, Jessica, Austin, Morgan and Colby. Loving brother to Bridget Gillman of Henderson, NV and the late Michael, Martin, John and Nora Phelan. Born in New York City August 13, 1929. For more than 50 years James was a sales, marketing and management executive in the food industry with such organizations as Carnation, Green Giant, California Canners and Growers, Modern Maid, American Home Foods and Mitsui Foods where he was Vice President, Industrial, responsibile for the importation of foods from Israel and Thailand, among other countries. He twice owned International Food Brokerage businesses, first in the decade-long partnership, Caragol, Esformes & Phelan, which acted as exclusive agent for plants in Spain, Germany and Austria. His organization, Amerimark Enterprises Inc, is the largest importer of juice concentrates from Argentina to the U.S.A. James served in and was honorably discharged from the U.S. Army 1952-1954 during the Korean conflict which he was assigned to the Judge Advocate General's office ''JAG'' in Lingreise, Germany. A marketing major from New York University, he was elected in 1970 to School Board 8 in the Bronx where he served as president when New York decentralized its school system. In 1972 he was elected president of the New York City School Boards Association which represented 32 school boards across the city. Mr. Phelan lived a full and graceful life with energy, enthusiasm, compassion and commitment. His domestic and international business interests were rewarded with long-term loyal colleagues and friends, some of whom sent new generations of their families to him for guidance in American Business Practices, English Language skills and knowledge of the food industry. Mr. Phelan's greatest legacy, however, was his unceasing generosity--personally, professionally, educationally and financially, to his family and friends. He was a source of inspiration and strength to them and all who knew him. He will be deeply mourned and sadly missed by those whose lives he touched. Reposing at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Monday, February 27. Family viewing 2PM-4PM, open viewing 7-9PM. On Tuesday, February 28 at 10AM Mass of Christian Burial at the Church of St. Monica, 413 E. 79 St, between York and 1st Aves. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, friends may send memorial donations to Cabrini Medical Center Hospice Care at 227 E. 19 St, NY, NY 10003.
      