
        CHAIFETZ--Jill. The Trustees and staff of the Center for Alternative Sentencing and Employment Services (CASES) note with sorrow the passing of Jill Chaifetz. Her distinguished work on behalf of court involved students and all students in the New York City School system made a real difference for all children. She was passionate in her commitment. We extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Joel Copperman, CEO CASES Leslie Gimbel, Chair of the Board of Trustees
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. The Children's Defense Fund acknowledges with sadness the loss of Jill Chaifetz. Jill was a tireless advocate for children, particularly those who were the most vulnerable. Jill never wavered in her belief that all children deserve equal access to quality education. Her passion and wisdom will be deeply missed by all, especially the children of New York. Marian Wright Edelman, President Donna Lawrence, Executive Director CDF New York
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. The Board of Directors and staff of The Door-A Center of Alternatives Inc., deeply mourn the passing of Jill Chaifetz, Executive Director of Advocates for Children of New York and founder of the Legal Services Center at The Door. Jill was a tireless advocate for youth and an inspiring leader throughout her career. She will be deeply missed. Our thoughts and sympathy are with her family.
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. The Campaign for Fiscal Equity mourns the passing of board member, Jill Chaifetz, Director of Advocates for Children and CFE board member. Jill was a relentless advocate for the rights of poor youths. She was a compassionate person whose warmth lit the lives of all who knew her.
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. We mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend Jill Chaifetz, who shared our vision for a better world for children and families. The Board and Staff of Legal Information for Families Today (LIFT)
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. It was a privilege to know Jill and to support her work. We will greatly miss her warmth, eternal optimism and exceptional knowledge. Our most sincere condolences to her family. Jackie Elias and Lisa Philp
        $(6$)CHAIFETZ--Jill. All at Resources for Children with Special Needs will miss Jill Chaifetz, her passion, her extraordinary dedication, and her leadership on behalf of all children.
      