
        POSEN--Carol Abelson. We grieve the untimely passing of Carol, who died tragically on February 4, 2006. She leaves behind her beloved husband Jack, adoring daughter Jenny, devoted parents Fran & Sandy, mother-in-law Celia, brother Kenny, sisters-in-law Bunny & Leslie, stepchildren Julie, Paul, David and Anneliese, niece and nephew, Zoe and Michael, grandchildren Taryn, Jordan, Lindsay, Jimmy and Devin, dog Sunshine, and too many dear friends to name. She will be greatly missed by us all. $(6$)POSEN--Carol Abelson. Carol's sudden and tragic death is hard to comprehend. If anyone were to help soothe such a family trauma, it would have been Carol. Her family's well-being was her life's mission and we will feel her loss daily. She has left a void that cannot filled. We will miss her with all our hearts. David, Anneliese, Jimmy and Devin $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Our beloved daughter, you brought sunshine and happiness into our lives every day. Jack and Jenny are your gifts to us and we treasure them dearly. A fantastic wife and unbelievable mother, unique daughter, loving, kind and caring sister, grandmother and friend, you were beautiful inside and out. May you rest in peace surrounded by the love of all who knew you. We will love you and miss you every day for the rest of our lives. Mom and Dad $(6$)POSEN--Carol. ''It's not the years in your life that count, it's the life in your years.'' Carol, your presence in our lives was truly a special gift, always generously given, happily accepted, and one that will forever be an inspiration for us to find the good and positive in ourselves and others. There could never be a better sister, sister-in-law and aunt. We know you are in a place as beautiful as you are. Kenny, Leslie, Michael & Zoe $(6$)POSEN--Carol. We are devasted by the tragic loss and untimely death of Carol. She was an incredibly special, loving and important part of our lives. Carol was a devoted step-mother to Julie, Paul, David and Anneliese. She was the most adoring grandmother. Our hearts go out to the entire family. We will miss her terribly. She will be in our hearts forever. Bonnie, Marty, Lauren, Russell, Ali, Barry $(6$)POSEN--Carol. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss our esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Jack, her daughter Jennifer, her children David Posen and Julie Brandes, and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Robert M. Schack, President Karen Goldstick, Chairman $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Genuinely giving, forever caring, always supportive, immensely sensitive, and certainly beautiful inside and out. You were a gift in our lives that we will forever cherish. Your love, so abundant and expressive, will be missed more than anyone can imagine. The devastation of your loss is immeasurable. We will always love you. Julie, Paul, Taryn, Jordan, and Lindsay $(6$)POSEN--Carol. My shopping, lunching, art-browsing, afternoon-movie buddy and dear family friend. We will miss your smile, your warmth and your wonderful enthusiasm. We will miss you. Susan, Jim, Alex and Elizabeth Dubin $(6$)POSEN--Carol. My mother, my best friend, my biggest fan. Words cannot begin to describe how much I will miss you in my life. You are always everything a mother should be and more. I love you, Mama. Jenzo $(6$)POSEN--Carol. We are so saddened by the tragedy that has taken a beautiful soul. To Jack, Jenny, Fran, Sandy, Kenny and their families, our love and deepest sympathy. Myrna & Ron Ruskin
      