
        CURTIS--Christine Windisch von Goeben, granddaughter of the late Frederick and Hedda von Goeben Behr of this city died at the age of 77 at the River Glenn Rehabilitation Center in Southbury, CT on February 11. She is survived by her husband John Robert Curtis, Jr., three sons, Carl Gavin, Allen Richard and Robert Frederick, and one sister, Hedda Windisch von Goeben. Funeral services will be held in the Roxbury, Connecticut Congregational Church on Friday, February 17 at 10:30 A.M. Please, no flowers. If you wish to leave a token in remembrance to her, perhaps you might wish to make a donation in her name to one of your favorite charities or to the Christine Curtis Memorial Scholarship Fund administered by the Connecticut Community Foundation, 43 Field Street, Waterbury, CT 06702. Born in New York City, Christine spent her formative years in Belle Haven, Greenwich. She graduated from the Greenwich and Abbott Academies and Smith College. She and her husband met in Vienna, Austria while both were working there for the Central Intelligence Agency during the Allied occupation of that city after the end of WWII. They were married in Washington, CT in April of 1954 and just missed celebrating their 52nd wedding anniversary this year. Christine will be remembered for her countless good works to aid humanity. In so doing, she followed in the footsteps of her grandfather Behr, founder of the Behr-Manning Corporation of NYC (Now part of Norton Abrasives). Through philanthropy and a willingness to get her hands dirty in projects in various countries to assist the needy, she became known far and wide as a true soldier of charity. She and her husband traveled broadly both with the U.S. Foreign Service and privately. They lived in Spain for twenty years before returning to Connecticut in 1989 to reside in Heritage Village. Immediately she involved in numerous important chores in that large community including the presidency of the Volunteer Ambulance Association for six years.
      