
        NORTON--James A. At home on the morning of February 8, 2006. He will be greatly missed by his wife of 37 years, Femma. Also missed by his mother Kris, sisters Judy (Gene) & Lynn (Gayle). Cherished father of Lesley (Jill), Shauna (Colin), Tom (Norma), Jared and Joshua. Adored ''Pop'' to grandchildren Hilary, Matthew, Gwen, Keshia and Jonathan. Sadly missed by Millie. Jim was born in Montreal on March 17, 1935 but grew up in New Rochelle, New York where his father Alex was Administrator of New Rochelle Hospital. A 1957 graduate of Williams College, Jim returned to Canada where he was an economist with the Government of Canada, an International Representative for the United Steelworkers and Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics at Brock University. Following his election to North York Council and the Metropolitan Toronto Council, Jim embarked on a consulting career that bridged both sides of the border and spanned over thirty years. A specialist in the field of managed healthcare, Jim left his mark on the industry and those within it, as both a visionary and a friend. Upon retirement, Jim established his own consulting company, aptly titled, Kris Kringle. As candidate, active campaigner and vigilant supporter of The New Democratic Party Jim remained a life-long crusader for social Justice. A rare mix of success and generosity, Jim regularly volunteered at the ''Out of the Cold'' soup kitchen. Jim Norton was many things to many people: a husband, a father, a grandfather, a teacher, a colleague and a friend. To each of these roles Jim brought his trademark combination of courage, kindness, humour and wit. He will be forever missed. At his own request, Jim has been cremated and there is to be no memorial service. A ''Celebration of Jim's Life'' is being planned. Please send relevant contact information to jimnortoncelebration@rogers.com and details of the event will be forwarded when available. Donations, if desired, may be made to the Stephen Lewis Foundation.
      