
        SMITH--Robert A. Loving and devoted husband of Roslyn. Cherished father of Penny Novick & Howard and Amy Smith. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey & Stephanie Smith, and Brett and Blake Novick. A compassionate man who always put his family first, he could not do enough for family and friends alike. His belief in helping others was evident through his many charitable efforts. He was the recipient of The Torch of Learning Award from The American Friends of the Hebrew University, and received an honorary Doctorate Degree from Long Island University, while serving as a Trustee of both Long Island University and The Arnold and Marie Schwartz College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences. He was incredibly generous and his many philanthropic interests included UJA, North Shore/LIJ Health Care Systems, where he served as an Associate Trustee, St. Francis Hospital, Boca Raton Community Hospital, Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center and The Kravis Center in Palm Beach, Florida. He served his country during World War II in the Navy aboard the USS Hornet. A brilliant businessman and industry leader he was President and CEO of S-P Drug Co. Inc. He was respected by vendors, customers and employees alike, and served on the Board of The National Wholesale Drug Association. An avid golfer, he truly enjoyed his memberships at The Glen Oaks Club, Delaire Country Club and High Ridge Country Club. We will miss his great sense of humor, endless stories and sage advice. A man of integrity, he was the ultimate role model for his children & grandchildren. His memory will remain with his family and friends forever. Donations in his memory may be made to NeuroOncology Research, C/O Jerome B. Posner, M.D., 1275 York Avenue, Room C731, NY, NY 10021. Services today 10AM at ''Gutterman''s, 8000 Jericho Tpk, Woodbury, LI.
        $(6$)SMITH--Robert A. How lucky we were to have a Grandpa like you. We will miss the many trips to Florida, family vacations and our special Sunday night dinners. We will miss your smile and the hugs and kisses you always gave us. We will always remember your sense of humor and your endless storytelling. And most of all, we miss your kindness, warmth and love. Love always, Jeffrey, Stephanie, Brett and Blake
        $(6$)SMITH--Robert A. Dad, we were truly blessed to have had a father like you. Your support, understanding and guidance were always evident in all that you did for us. Your unconditional love was never ending. You will be in our hearts and minds forever. We will always miss you and love you. Penny, Howard and Amy
        $(6$)SMITH--Robert A. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Robert Smith, a longstanding American Friend and recipient of AFHU's Torch of Learning Award. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, Chairman of the Board George A. Schieren, President Peter T. Willner, National Executive Director The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        $(6$)SMITH--Robert. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President
        $(6$)SMITH--Robert. We knew you as the finest of gentlemen, and we will miss your wonderful sense of humor. Our thoughts are with you, Roz, and your dear family. Harriet Numeroff and Family
        $(6$)SMITH -- Robert. A loyal friend, gentleman and golfing buddy. We will miss his wise counsel and great sense of humor. Schultzes, Wolfsons, and Winikoffs
      