
        SCHAFFER--Stanley J. Our Skipper. Beloved husband of Caryl. Adored father of Laurie and Dr. Ellis Disick, Cathie and Dr. Dean Schaffer. Grandfather of Dr. Grant and Tia and Dr. Evan Disick and Paul Schaffer. Great grandfather of Noah Disick. Brother of Monroe, Gladys and the late Horace. Loved by his step family, Greg, Mindy, Andrew and Jessica White. Predeceased by his dear wife Beverly. A man who did it all and loved everything he did. He leaves a part of himself in all whose heart he touched. Funeral service will be held Friday February 10, at 12:30 pm at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY.
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley J. My amazing father, close friend and companion. We've been through so much together and had such fun. You built the ship and our family can sail forward. Join those we love in heaven. Laurabelle
        $(6$)SCHAFFER -- Stanley. Our condolences to Caryl his beloved wife--the two of you enriched each other's lives so much and your days together were far too short. Our condolences also to the Disick and White families. Marilyn & Leon
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. The Members of Delaire Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Stanley Schaffer. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his entire family. Mel Katz, President
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. Skipper's life was blessed with music, art, friends, golf, travel and the extraordinary love and care of Bev, Caryl, Laurie, Ellis and family. We will all miss him. Dale, Peter and Family
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. Uncle Stanley, we will miss your love, laughter and wise counsel. Our hearts and prayers go out to all who loved and admired him. You will always be in our hearts. Roberta and Ricky
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley J. My adored husband, my best friend. You taught me all there is about life and love. I shall never forget you. Caryl
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. We will miss your sparkly blue eyes, your warmth & your charm. Love, Mindy, Greg, Andrew and Jessica
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. Loving father of our dear friend Laurie Disick. ''Skipper'' will be missed by friends and family. Ronnie and Tony DiPaolo
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Stanley. Scholar, gentleman, great friend, warm and caring, wonderful brother and brother-in-law Gladys & Monroe
      