
        WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund deeply mourn the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, a major force in the American theater and our colleague. In addition to Wendy's immeasurable contributions as a playwright and her work as an arts advocate, she also brought the Open Doors Program to TDF in 1998. The program for students was born out of Wendy's conviction that it was the birthright of every child in NYC to have access to the theatre. Through her tireless efforts on the program's behalf, it has grown from one group mentored by her, to 17 groups of NYC high school students mentored by 17 theater professionals. Each group has Wendy's spirit--the spirit of inquiry, curiousity, discussion, love of children and love of the theatre. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and her many colleagues. David D. Holbrook, Chairman Victoria Bailey, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of our dear friend Wendy Wasserstein. The Y's stage, which Wendy graced so often, will seem a little less joyous; Broadway will seem a little less bright; and the world will laugh a little less loudly from now on. Wendy's loss will be deeply felt by all who knew her or who had benefited from her brilliance. Our hearts and prayers are with our own Lucy Jane and her family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director Helaine Geismar Katz Associate Executive Director
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. We mourn the silencing of one of America's most gifted theatrical voices. An icon of a generation, Wasserstein wrote with great empathy, sensitivity and humor about what it means to be a contemporary Jewish woman, shedding wisdom and warmth on what has too often become a caricature or stereotype. She will be greatly missed by her audience. With deepest sympathy to her daughter and extended family; may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. June Walker National President Morlie Levin National Executive Director Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the death of Wendy Wasserstein, one of our most respected and beloved members. As her colleagues, we will miss not only the wit, wisdom, and honesty of her plays, but equally her unfailing good humor and generosity of spirit. She had a fierce and steadfast commitment to the protection of the rights of playwrights and used both her power and her charm in her work for the Guild. Our deepest sympathies to her family and to her loved ones at this difficult time. John Weidman, President The Dramatists Guild of America
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The trustees and staff of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation deeply mourn the death of a wise, caring, witty, and beloved friend. Wendy's involvement with the Foundation, first as a Fellow, and later as a trustee, was a gift to all of us. We adored her and will miss her terribly. All of us at the Foundation extend our deepest sympathy to the members of her family and her many friends. Joseph A. Rice Chairman, Board of Trustees Edward Hirsch President and Trustee Joel Conarroe Pres. Emeritus and Trustee
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. In fond remembrance of Wendy Wasserstein, great contributor to the theatrical and literary arts in America, and great friend to the Unterberg Poetry Center of The 92nd Street Y. She was a woman who exceeded her own advise: ''Don't live down to expectations. Go out there and do something remarkable.'' We are enormously grateful for her legacy of laughter. Eva Colin Usdan John Greenwood Co-Chairs of The Poetry Committee The Staff of The Unterberg Poetry Center of The 92nd Street Y
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The League of American Theatres and Producers notes with sadness the passing of this Tony Award-winning playwright, essayist, children's book author, and passionate New Yorker. Wendy's wit and charm enlivened our stages and dazzled all who knew her. She worked tirelessly to create opportunities for women in the theatre, and to welcome new generations of young artists into our community. We join with theatre fans everywhere in extending our condolences to her daughter, Lucy Jane, and to the rest of her family.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Barnard College Center for for Toddler Development mourns the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, beloved mother of Lucy Jane. Wendy brought her intelligence, indomitable spirit, love of life and insightful wit to our Center and our lives. But most of all we will remember her feelings of unconditional love for Lucy Jane. Our love and condolences to the entire Wasserstein family.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The entire School of American Ballet family mourns the death of Wendy Wasserstein, a Boardmember and good friend. A woman of uncommon talent, she shared her humor and style and love of ballet with us all, and we are grateful. She will be missed. Robert Fribourg, Chairman Peter Martins, Artistic Director Marjorie Van Dercook, Executive Director
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. We will sorely miss our friend, neighbor, and 1997 Lifetime Achievement Honoree for Literary Arts, Wendy Wasserstein. Ruth S. Appelhof Exececutive Director Melville Straus Roy Furman For the Board of Trustees and Academy of the Arts of Guild Hall
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Trustees of The Calhoun School and the entire Calhoun community grieve the untimely loss of our distinguished alumna Wendy Wasserstein '67. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family. Eric B. Ryan, Chair Karen La Rosa, Vice Chair Steven J. Nelson, Head of School
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Wendy Wasserstein, beloved sister of Bruce Wasserstein, and extends deepest condolences to the family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Trustees and staff of The New York Society Library extend condolences to the family of a loyal, beloved supporter. We are proud to have been the haven where she wrote some of her finest works.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. Our generation has lost a voice, and we have lost an old new friend. Our sincere condolences to Wendy's mother, daughter and extended family. Gaya Aranoff and Lewis Bernstein
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Thyroid, Head and Neck Cancer (THANC) Foundation's Board of Directors and Staff mourn the loss of Wendy Wasserstein. She will be remembered for her remarkable contributions and generosity of spirit.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Kleban Foundation mourns the untimely death of its esteemed Board member, Wendy Wasserstein. She was a most talented and empathetic woman and we will miss her wise counsel.
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. We will miss you always. Les Dames de La Gorge, Gini Alhadeff, Holly Brubach, Brigitte LaCombe, Nancy Novogrod, Judith Thurman
        $(6$)WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns our dear friend and colleague Wendy Wasserstein.
      