
        SOMERFIELD--Ralph Murray died at home January 31 in Floral Park, NY. Ralph was a life long resident of NYC, born of immigrant parents, Benjamin and Sophie, in 1915. His childhood was immersed with the joys of dance, opera, the Yiddish Theater, and a precious friendship with Manny Dichter. He was blessed to find his true love, Elsie, at 16 and spent the next 73 years with her at his side through all life's joys and travails. He had a long creative career as a marketing executive holding senior positions at Bulova, Lucien Piccard, including Vice President and Secretary at Gruen. A talented tennis player since childhood, he competed in many tournaments including winning the Sears Tennis Tournament in his 70's beating competitors 30 years his junior. His love of tennis was only exceeded by his love of chocolate to which he attributed his long life. A Shakespeare enthusiast, he often quoted from his work to make points and entertain friends and family. After his retirement he volunteered at LIJ Hospital where he organized educational conferences and read to seriously ill children. He was appointed by the Governor to the Board of Visitors of Queens Children's Psychiatric Center & was its Secretary. He was a fearless fighter for children against the political powers favoring funding cuts for the disadvantaged. He sponsored dance therapy programs and donated musical equipment through the Ralph and Elsie Somerfield Arts Enrichment Fund. He attended every class conducted by the Ailey dance teachers. He enjoyed lively debates at Temple Beth-El Torah study. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife, Elsie. He is deeply mourned by his daughters, Barbara and Benita; his son in law, John; his niece, Joan: his cousins, Bonnie and Sven and his devoted friend, Clem. Donations may be made in his name to the Queens Children's Psychiatric Center, Attn: Carol/Keith Little, 74-03 Commonwealth Blvd, Bellrose, NY 11426 or the National Audubon Society. Memorial services will be held Thursday, February 2, 10AM, Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd, at 76th Road, Forest Hills, Queens. 718-263-7600.
        $(6$)SOMERFIELD--Ralph. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member, Ralph Somerfield. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
      