
        POSEN--Carol. Our beloved daughter, you brought sunshine and happiness into our lives every day. Jack and Jenny are your gifts to us and we treasure them dearly. A fantastic wife and unbelievable mother, unique daughter, loving, kind and caring sister, grandmother and friend, you were beautiful inside and out. May you rest in peace surrounded by the love of all who knew you. We will love you and miss you every day for the rest of our lives. Mom and Dad
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, February 8th, 1:30PM at The Jewish Community Center of Harrison. 130 Union Avenue, Harrison, New York. 914-835-2850
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Our hearts are broken. We have known you and loved you from birth. Your sweet disposition, kindness and warmth will be missed by all. Our heartfelt condolences to our lifelong friends, Fran and Sandy, and to the entire family. We will miss you. Terry and Seymour and family
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. WJCS and the Parent Child Home Program mourn the tragic loss of Carol whose generosity, kindness and caring spirit partnered with Jack to make a difference in the lives of so many. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Alan Trager, CEO/Exec Dir Robert Stavis, Pres Patrice Cuddy, Dir PCHP
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. The kindest, most beautiful person inside and out, who will be missed by all who knew her and loved her. My heart goes out to her parents Fran & Sandy, my lifelong friends and to Jack, Jenny, Kenny and their families. Lorraine Schneidman & Family
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. We are deeply saddened by the untimely and tragic loss of Carol. We will remember her for her warmth, generosity of spirit and devotion to her family. We will miss her enduring friendship. Susan, Jim, Kira, Eric and Jonathan Winter
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. The Rudin family expresses our deepest condolences to Jack, Jenny, Fran, Sandy, Kenny and Leslie on the passing of Carol. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Posen and Abelson families during this extremely difficult time.
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Our neighborhood deeply mourns the loss of one of its brighest lights. Jack and Jenny, we love you and are here for you. The Daly, Finley, Kanas, Leib, Moss, Orentlicher, Sewitch, Silverman, Wagner, Weinraub Families
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. My most cherished, beautiful and lifelong friend. Thank you for years of kindness, generosity and loyalty. We will love and miss you forever. Our deepest sympathy to Jack, Jenny, Fran, Sandy, Kenny & family. Andrea, Michael & Randi
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. A life taken much too early. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the Abelson and Posen families. Dan Wollman and the Employees of Gumley-Haft.
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol Abelson. We are devastated by the tragic loss of Carol. Our hearts are broken for our dear friends Sandy, Fran and the family. Fred and Barbara Berman
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Forever in our hearts, forever in our minds, we will always miss and love you. Gail, Jeffrey, Lindsay, Michael & Robyn
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Beautiful inside and out. You will live in our hearts forever. Leslie and Jim Levy Laurie Levy and Caren and Jonathan Greenhouse
      