
        NORRIS--John F. All of us at Forest City Ratner Companies mourn the passing of our friend and colleague John Norris. John excelled in everything he did-from ensuring the Queen of England's safety as a member of the Royal Horse Guards of the Household Cavalry to overseeing the construction of some of the most recognizable buildings in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada. He joined Forest City Ratner Companies in 1989 as the head of our Construction Department, and led the early construction of the first three buildings at MetroTech Center. He continued as our field construction representative, monitoring all of our projects under construction. Every building at MetroTech benefited from his insight and skill, as did Atlantic Center and Atlantic Terminal, the New York Mercantile Exchange, 330 Jay Street and the Museum of Jewish Heritage. Other notable projects in which John had a hand include First Canadian Place in Toronto and the World Financial Center in New York City. John was an avid outdoorsman with a passion for hunting, fishing and his dogs. But of all his accomplishments, perhaps the one in which John took the most pride was his loving family. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Mary; children Andrew and Richard; grandson Michael and many other relatives and friends. His funeral was held at the Flameboro Baptist Church, 41 Fifth Concession in Waterdown, Ontario on February 18. A memorial service is planned for March 20 at 10:30 A.M. at St. Boniface Church, 109 Duffield Street, in the heart of the MetroTech Center that John helped to build. Bruce C. Ratner, President and CEO $(6$)NORRIS--John F. All of us at Forest City Ratner Companies mourn the passing of our friend and colleague John Norris. John excelled in everything he did--from ensuring the Queen of England's safety as a member of the Royal Horse Guards of the Household Cavalry to overseeing the construction of some of the most recognizable buildings in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada. He joined Forest City Ratner Companies in 1989 as the head of our Construction Department, and led the early construction of the first three buildings at MetroTech Center. He continued as our field construction representative, monitoring all of our projects under construction. Every building at MetroTech benefited from his insight and skill, as did Atlantic Center and Atlantic Terminal, the New York Mercantile Exchange, 330 Jay Street and the Museum of Jewish Heritage. Other notable projects in which John had a hand include First Canadian Place in Toronto and the World Financial Center in New York City. John was an avid outdoorsman with a passion for hunting, fishing and his dogs. But of all his accomplishments, perhaps the one in which John took the most pride was his loving family. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Mary; children Andrew and Richard; grandson Michael and many other relatives and friends. His funeral was held at the Flameboro Baptist Church, 41 Fifth Concession in Waterdown, Ontario on February 18. A memorial service is planned for March 20 at 10:30 A.M. at St. Boniface Church, 109 Duffield Street, in the heart of the MetroTech Center that John helped to build. Bruce C. Ratner, President and CEO
      