
        GEWIRTZ--Julius. The family of Julius Gewirtz is saddened to announce the passing of their beloved husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. Julius Gewirtz died Satruday morning after a difficult illness. We know he is now at peace. Julius Gewirtz, the founder of Joyce Leslie, lived a life of kindness, charity and giving. Services were held Sunday, at Park East Synagogue. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Park East Day School would be appreciated.
        $(6$)GEWIRTZ--Julius. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Julius Gewirtz, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Hermine and family, their deepest sympathy. David E. Rifkin, President Harry J. Berg, Secretary
        $(6$)GEWIRTZ--Julius. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our beloved Julius Gewirtz, longtime Chairman of the Board of Trustees, a man of deep faith who had an abundance of love for the Jewish people and Israel. His kindness always led him to see the good in people. He practiced tzedaka every day. He tirelessly devoted himself to Park East Synagogue, the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School, and other Jewish charities. He was respected and adored by everyone. His loss to Park East is immeasurable. His beloved wife Hermine has been his partner for 60 years. She, along with Nancy and Michael, Joyce and Eric, their grandsons and great-granddaughter were deeply loved. To them, the entire Park East family extends its deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        $(6$)GEWIRTZ--Julius. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourns the passing of ''Julie'' Gewirtz, founder and trustee, whose generosity, support of Torah and quality education benefited a generation of our students. To his beloved Hermine, Patron of Education, his devoted daughters, Nancy and Joyce, and the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        $(6$)GEWIRTZ -- Julie. Deepest sympathy to the Gewirtz family who, as everyone else who knew him, will forever be blessed with the memory and inspiration of this most gracious, honorable, kind man of extraordinary wisdom, sensitivity and humility. Peter L. Levine
      