
        POSEN--Carol Abelson. We grieve the untimely passing of Carol, who died tragically on February 4, 2006. She leaves behind her beloved husband Jack, adoring daughter Jenny, devoted parents Fran & Sandy, mother-in-law Celia, brother Kenny, sisters-in-law Bunny & Leslie, stepchildren Julie, Paul, David and Anneliese, niece and nephew, Zoe and Michael, grandchildren Taryn, Jordan, Lindsay, Jimmy and Devin, dog Sunshine, and too many dear friends to name. She will be greatly missed by us all.
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol Abelson. Carol's sudden and tragic death is hard to comprehend. If anyone were to help soothe such a family trauma, it would have been Carol. Her family's well-being was her life's mission and we will feel her loss daily. She has left a void that cannot filled. We will miss her with all our hearts. David, Anneliese, Jimmy and Devin
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Our beloved daughter, you brought sunshine and happiness into our lives every day. Jack and Jenny are your gifts to us and we treasure them dearly. A fantastic wife and unbelievable mother, unique daughter, loving, kind and caring sister, grandmother and friend, you were beautiful inside and out. May you rest in peace surrounded by the love of all who knew you. We will love you and miss you every day for the rest of our lives. Mom and Dad
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Your soul, spirit and love will be in our hearts forever. Thanks for your twenty years of constant friendship. Our lives will never be the same without you. We'll love you, always. Rona, Lee and David Javitch
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, February 8th, 1:30PM at The Jewish Community Center of Harrison. 130 Union Avenue, Harrison, New York. 914-835-2850
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. We mourn the tragic and untimely passing of our dear friend, who was a vice president and presidentelect of the Westchester/ Fairfield Chapter of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. Her leadership, compassion, and dedication to improving the well-being of people everywhere were exemplary, and we will miss her enthusiasm, kindness and warm friendship. To her husband, Jack; her daughter, Jenny; her stepchildren Julie and Paul, David and Anneliese, and all the members of her family, we extend our heart felt sympathy. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean National Women's Division Linda Altman, President Karen Hershberg, President Westchester/Fairfield Chapter
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Since the day Carol came into our lives she was a ray of sunshine even on the gloomiest days. She was even more beautiful on the inside than she was on the outside. A most devoted wife, mother, daughter & daughter-in-law. She was a loving sister-in-law & aunt. Our family will never be the same without her. Our heart felt condolences go out to her beloved husband Jack & daughter Jenny, Julie & Paul, David & Anneliese and the Abelson family. Carol, you will be in our hearts forever. Bunny, Stephen, Ellen & Dan, Gary & Jill
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. You were the light in everyone's life who loved you. You amazed us all with your kindness and your beautiful, gentle, caring spirit. Your loss is immeasurable but a piece of our hearts will forever belong to you. We send our love and condolences to Jack, Jenny, Fran, Sandy, Kenny and all of her family and friends whose lives were so enriched by her. We love you. Jackie, Mark, William Amanda and Adam
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. We are devasted by the tragic loss and untimely death of Carol. She was an incredibly special, loving and important part of our lives. Carol was a devoted step-mother to Julie, Paul, David and Anneliese. She was the most adoring grandmother. Our hearts go out to the entire family. We will miss her terribly. She will be in our hearts forever. Bonnie, Marty, Lauren, Russell, Ali, Barry
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Genuinely giving, forever caring, always supportive, immensely sensitive, and certainly beautiful inside and out. You were a gift in our lives that we will forever cherish. Your love, so abundant and expressive, will be missed more than anyone can imagine. The devastation of your loss is immeasurable. We will always love you. Julie, Paul, Taryn, Jordan, and Lindsay
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Beauty was in the eyes of all who beheld our lovely and loving Carol Posen. To all who knew her, keep her memory alive by loving those she loved, her husband Jack, her daughter Jenny and all her family and friends. Mike and Charlotte Gross Stefanie and Jessica
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed former member, Carol Posen, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Jack and her family. Richard D. Katcher, Pres. Neda Birbrower, Secy.
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. The kindest, most beautiful person inside and out, who will be missed by all who knew her and loved her. My heart goes out to her parents Fran & Sandy, my lifelong friends and to Jack, Jenny, Kenny and their families. Lorraine Schneidman & Family
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Your kindness, grace and elegance touched everything you did and everyone you knew. You were a cherished friend. I will truly miss you. My deepest sympathy to Jack and Jenny, Fran and Sandy, and the entire family. Joan Kaufman
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. My mother, my best friend, my biggest fan. Words cannot begin to describe how much I will miss you in my life. You are always everything a mother should be and more. I love you, Mama. Jenzo
        $(6$)POSEN--Carol. Beautiful inside and out. You will live in our hearts forever. Leslie and Jim Levy Laurie Levy and Caren and Jonathan Greenhouse
      