
        BALK - Madeline. Passed away after a very brief illness February 1st at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Weill. Caring daughter of the late Ethel and Joseph Balk. Loving sister of Daniel Balk and the late Leon Balk and Pauline Manevitz. Beloved Aunt and second ''Mother'' to Sheila Manevitz, Alan Manevitz, MD, Larry and Jenny Manevitz, Sharon Lauer and John Wolf, June and Gary Miller, Joyce and Steve Wasserman. Great-Aunt to Craig, Claire, Suzanne, Hillary, Jeffrey, Zevi, Shouli, Miriam, Kehat and Hanania. Funeral Services will be at the Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 E. 51 St (between 2nd & 3rd Ave, Manhattan), Sunday, February 5 at 9 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to The National Mental Health Project, 60 Sutton Place So., Suite 1CN, NY, NY 10022
        $(6$)BALK--Madeline. Died February 1, 2006. My Beloved Aunt and the original ''Auntie Mame'' who was a model to me of a truly independent woman at a time when it was not fashionable. I will think of her every day, in every way that allows ''light and choice'' to come into the world. You will always be in my heart and soul. Your niece, Sharon Lauer-Wolf
        $(6$)BALK--Madeline. Graduate of the class of 1935 of James Madison High School that has been called the ''greatest graduating high school class'' in New York City history, graduate of Hunter College, graduate of NYU Law School, life-time associate and partner at Seligman & Seligman law firm (practicing until the day of her death), esteemed member of the New York City Bar, the American Bar Association, and one of the first women admitted to plead before the U.S. Supreme Court. She was a pioneer before the word ''feminist'' existed, achieving her positions on merit and served as a role model for numerous generations of attorneys. An enthusiastic adventurer and world traveler, opera buff, tennis player and fan. Her commitment to America, Freedom of Choice, the Jewish people, the State of Israel, and Jewish education was boundless. She was an engaging raconteur. To her, no one was a stranger. She was modest, yet self-assured, bold and independent, dignified and quietly powerful. Her extensive fund of life experiences were guided by a spirit of inquiry, curiosity and discussion. Her compassion and commitment to her friends and family made her a respected, trusted beloved ''Aunt'' Madeline to all. We will miss her wise counsel, her life-affirming spirit and her love.
        $(6$)BALK--Madeline. I am deeply saddened by the loss of my colleague and friend, Madeline Balk, who pacticed law with me for more than fifty years. Her skills, judgment, and ethical standard were invaluable in our practice and earned her the respect and admiration of all who worked with her. Additionally, her many pro bono activities will be missed by the legal community. My deepest condolences to her devoted family. Benjamin Seligman
        $(6$)BALK--Madeline. The National Mental Health Project and the Foundation for the Education of the Public and Professional in Psychiatry and Public Education mourn the loss of their beloved founding Board member and Vice President, Madeline Balk. Her memory will be a blessing to all who knew her, were helped by her, and were loved by her.
      