
        SILVESTRE--Patricia Ann. Born in New York City, NY on June 13, 1936, daughter of Mary Elizabeth Lydon and Alphonse Michael Silvestre. Pat lived in the Bronx with her mom and her first job was a line girl at Horn & Hardart Cafeteria. Knowing this would not suffice, she convinced the family patriarch, her grandfather Nicholas Silvestro, to allow her to join the 1st Sergeants Program for Army Nurses in New York State, so she could attend school. Succeeding in her quest she went to Lenox Hill Hospital School of Nursing and graduated in 1958. Pat's thirst for knowledge never stopped. She received a Bachelor of Science in Nursing from Columbia and a Master's in Hospital Administration from Baylor. Her military education: Army Medical Department Officer Advanced Course, Department of the Army Inspector General Course, (Pat was the 1st female placed on the I.G. team) and the Chief Nurse Orientation Course. Upon retirement, she became an Instructor at the American Red Cross. During her Army career, she held a variety of clinical, administrative and staff positions: Madigan, the 121st Evac. in Seoul, Korea, Fort Gordon, Fort Jay, a tour at the U.S. Army Recruiting Command, the office of the Surgeon General as Assistant Chief for the Army Nurse Corps Procurement, Surgical Hospital, Quang Tri, the 95th Evacuation Hospital Republic of Vietnam, Inspector General U.S. Army Health Services Command, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Fort Campbell, the Army Regional Medical Center in Frankfurt, Germany and Fitzsimmons in Colorado. She was the youngest Colonel in the Army. Pat's army career ended with her retirement on September 25, 1986. However, her new life of retirement in San Antonio, TX began anew with an old life long motto of serving others. She started at the SAMM Shelter volunteering for the night shift in downtown San Antonio. She became an active field worker for the Red Cross and when mobility became a problem she became an instructor. She became a vital member of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, where she used her skills and character for many years to benefit those who needed a helping hand. As a member of her church she served as a CCD instructor, lector, and Parish Council. She remained an active member of Kiwanis, Veteran's of Foreign Wars and the Women's Overseas Service League for as long as her health permitted. Paraphrasing M. Rausch's words about Colonel Silvestre, ''What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us. You have left a trail of excellence as exhibited by your family, friends, and colleagues and the future holds great promise; however it is what lies within you which has touched 'The Body of Christ.''' Alfred Adler, one of the fathers of modern psychiatry, said one of the dominant impulses that every human being is born with is the instinct to get ahead. The problem arises whether one is willing to channel it for good. Christ said that in the Kingdom of God greatness is measured in terms of service. And you my friend have accomplished that level of excellence because you were always ready to the cries of those in need. Your service has cost you through the years to bleed and suffer knowing the price for greatness is long hours and many sleepless nights. There is another quote which puts you in mind. ''You Pat, are a very special individual who at all times and every where gave her strength to the weak, her substance to the poor, her sympathy to the suffering, and her heart to God. The endless number of people who have crossed your path will bear witness to this. When a void existed you were ready to step in and serve with honor and humility. It is yourcommitment in ministering to others which has touched us all.'' Colonel Silvestre's awards and recognitions are too numerous to mention. Colonel Patricia Ann Silvestre passed away at the Army Retirement Community in San Antonio, TX on March 12, 2006. She leaves behind dear friends, colleagues, cousins Nancy Guerin, Dorothy Lyons, Michael Guerin, their families, and her sister, Marietta.
      