
        KAUFMAN--Dr. Carol Fuchs, 68, lived actively and fully with her husband, family, and friends, and fought ALS fiercely for five years until her passing on February 27, 2006. Born December 12, 1937, in the Bronx to the late Eva and Sam Fuchs, Carol relocated with her family to Kinston, NC where her father's shirt business, Hampton Industries, was opened. The family moved to Miami Beach where she attended Miami Beach High School. At Brandeis University on the first day of orientation she met the love of her life Jerry Kaufman of New York City. They married December 21, 1957. She transferred to Barnard College, where she fenced for the women's varsity team and graduated Magna Cum Laude, with a BA in Sociology, 1959. After college, she taught the second grade at The Ramaz School in New York City. They settled in Chicago in the Summer of 1963. Her children attended Hillel Torah Day School where she chaired the Education Committee. She was a member of the Congregation Or Torah in Skokie and served on its Board. While raising four children and volunteering her time to political, charitable, and educational causes, she earned a PhD in Clinical Psychology from Loyola University, in 1988. She was certified to practice in the State of IL and established a thriving private practice in downtown Chicago. An accomplished psychologist, her patients continued to seek her guidance even during the advanced stages of her illness. She supervised PhD candidates at Michael Reese Hospital. She was a frequent visitor of the Las Vegas Desert Inn Hotel where she took the house for a small fortune. She traveled extensively, particularly enjoying her annual trips to Dorado Beach, London and Jerusalem. She was a strong supporter of Israel and women's Jewish studies. She was a philanthropist, opera lover, arts lover and collector of all things beautiful. She loved The New York Times, a freshly-brewed cup of coffee, and a fine red wine (not necessarily in that order). She was wise and offered a sympathetic ear, which inspired so many to seek her counsel both personally and professionally. A wonderful mother to Miriam (Eric Feldstein), Michael (Neera Heifetz), Daniel, and Jeremy (Vered Hankin). A loving Bubbi to Jennifer, Max, Sam, Eliana, Sophia and Benji. Sister to Harriet Chused, Pearl Schechter, David Fuchs, Estelle Stine and Les Fuchs. Cherished aunt, cousin, and friend to so very many. Funeral Services, Wednesday, March 1, 2006, at 12:30 PM, Weinstein Funeral Home, 111 Skokie Blvd, Wilmette, IL, (847) 256-5700. Donations can be made to the Chicago Jewish Day School, 5959 N. Sheridan Road, Chicago, IL 60660 or University of Chicago ALS Fund, C/O Raymond Roos, MD, Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, MC2030, 5841 S. Maryland Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60637.
      