
        GARDNER--Joseph Howard, 78. On March 1, 2006. Cherished husband of Charlotte for 47 years. Incredibly devoted father of Danielle and the late Douglas (Jennifer). Brother of Florence Strauss. Adored grandfather of Michael and Julia. A true New Yorker, and a graduate of New York University, he was born, bred and resided his entire life in Manhattan. He enjoyed 50 summers as a respected member of the Seaview community in Fire Island, where he met his wife Charlotte, and, later in life, enjoyed spending time in Boca Raton, FL. Since 1968, he relished his career as a real estate developer, helping create the Chelsea and Soho neighborhoods by renovating the first buildings in those areas. Through his company P & J Realty, he changed the face of commercial and residential real estate in the Union Square area. A leader in the industry and a man noted for giving back and supporting the community, he was on many boards and contributed to many organizations including the YMCA, the NYU Stern School of Business, the Union Square Partnership, the 34th Street Partnership and the Real Estate Board of New York. He was a man known by one and all for his deep integrity, his relentless strength, his sharp intelligence, his steadfast courage and his unending generosity of spirit. He earned the deep respect and admiration from all who knew him. He will be deeply missed by all whom he touched. The world is a lesser place without Joseph Gardner. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, March 5th at 11:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Since Mr. Gardner strongly believed in supporting the youth of New York, in lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to Prep for Prep, 328 West 71st Street, New York, NY 10023, or The Fresh Air Fund, 1040 Sixth Avenue, New York, NY 10018.
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph. Dear Joe. We'll miss you. We'll miss your advice. We'll miss your enthusiasm. We'll miss the trust we had in you. We'll miss the friendship we enjoyed for so long. Henry Kibel and Richard Chapman
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph. Special cousin, dear friend. You will be be missed and remembered always. Our hearts are with Charlotte and family. Love, Joan & Arthur Spiro
      