
        THOMPSON--Jana D. Jana D'Aun Thompson, president of Laudus Funds in San Francisco, died March 17 in her home surrounded by family and friends following an eight month battle with pancreatic cancer. She had turned 47 ten days earlier. Ms. Thompson, a native of Arlington, Texas, headed management of Charles Schwab's Laudus Funds. She joined Schwab in August 2000. Previously, Ms. Thompson cofounded the High Yield Group at Fleet Securities in New York City after serving as head of High Yield Sales for Citicorp. She spent most of her career on Wall Street with Lehman Brothers where she specialized in High Yield, Distressed and Emerging investment markets. Ms. Thompson graduated from Lamar High School in Arlington, Texas. She earned a B.A. in International Economics from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., and an MBA in Finance from Columbia University in New York City. Ms. Thompson had a passionate interest in art, music, dance, sports and the community. She had served on the Board of Directors of ODC/Dance (Oberlin Dance Company) in San Francisco, and generously supported Doctors Without Borders, Emily's List, Planned Parenthood, the Women's Initiative for Self Employment (WISE), the Brent Woodall Foundation for Exceptional Children, Stern Grove Festival, San Francisco Ballet, Friends of Mountain Lake Park and a variety of emerging artists. A cycling enthusiast, she completed the 100-mile America's Most Beautiful Ride in 2004. She is survived by her partner Michael D. Browne and his children, Michael and Catherine, of New York City; her mother Janice D. Thompson, her father and stepmother Dr. Gerald G. Thompson and Linda Thompson, her brother Ken Thompson, his wife JoLee and their children Tori, Trace, Tanner and Tucker, her grandmother Dorothy Thompson, all of Arlington, Texas; her brother Kevin Thompson, his wife Patti and their children Meghan and Hank of Dallas, Texas; her sister Kelly Weeks, her husband David and their children Dylan and Zachary of Huntsville, Texas, and her extended family of treasured friends. The Jana D. Thompson Fund, an annual award to assist worthy students to study abroad, has been established at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be made to the Fund. Checks should be made payable to the School of Foreign Service (memo line: Jana D. Thompson Fund) and mailed to: School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 301 ICC, Washington, DC 20057.
      