
        MOFFO SARNOFF - Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr. One of the greatest sopranos of her time, Anna brought joy to opera lovers throughout the world. Her many memorable roles included Mimi, Manon, Liu, Cio-Cio San, Violetta and the Countess. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St on Monday March 13 from 6-8 and Tuesday March 14 from 5-7. Funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 50th St and 5th Ave on Wednesday, March 15 at 10AM. Burial private. Contributions in her memory should be made to the American Cancer Society, 19 W 56 St, New York, NY 10019. $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Board of Directors of the Licia Albanese-Puccini Foundation mourns the death of the esteemed member of our Board, Anna Moffo Sarnoff. She gave unsparingly of her many talents not only to the opera world, but also to her devoted friends, her grateful students, and the humanitarian causes she championed. We depended on her wise counsel and judgment, and she leaves a void that will serve as a reminder of her knowledge, her artistry, her elegance, and her beauty. Thank you, Anna, for having given us so much. Licia Albanese Gimma Chairman and Founder $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Board and staff of New York Festival of Song mourn the passing of Advisory Board member Anna Moffo Sarnoff, whose longstanding support honored and sustained our work. A great talent and a great beauty in voice, person, and character, she remains with us in spirit, cherished and remembered always. A song cycle by Paul Moravec, commissioned by NYFOS and dedicated to Anna's memory, will be premiered on April 11, at Merkin Hall. $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF--Anna. The Daniel Ferro Vocal Program mourns with great sadness the death of Anna Moffo, friend, advisor and supporter. Anna's beautiful voice and impeccable musicianship will inspire young artists for years to come. Joy and Daniel Ferro $(6$)MOFFO--Anna, rest in peace amongst the angels. Thank you for your grace and beauty and all the glorious performances that filled our hearts. Teresa Stratas $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF--Anna. A beloved friend and a great artist who has given of herself to so many. We will miss you. Frank & Raquel Celenza
      