
        GLUCK--A. Stanley. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Freema and Sheera, father-in-law of Harris. Loving grandfather or Arielle and Gabrielle. Stanley was a man of intelligence, integrity and honor. He and Anita were supporters of many organizations including The Jewish Theological Seminary, Park Avenue Synagogue, Solomon Schecter School of Manhattan, SAR Academy, UJA, Alyn Hospital. He was affiliated with Rothschild, Inc. for more than 58 years. He went to work every day. A dedicated colleague whose leadership, guidance and strength of character will be dearly missed. Stanley was deeply devoted to his family and possessed a unique zest for life. His commitment to work and causes was an inspiration to us all. A compassionate man beloved by many. He will be greatly missed and in our hearts forever. Funeral Services will be held at 11:30 AM on March 23, 2006 at the Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87th St, NYC.
        $(6$)GLUCK -- A. Stanley. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, A. Stanley Gluck, who joined the Rothschild family 58 years ago. For all those years he has been an integral part of the Rothschild Group in the United States. Stanley had the great gifts of compassion and integrity in large measure, which earned him the admiration and respect of generations of colleagues within the Rothschild Group. He was a model of hard work and old fashioned values. We thought that Stanley would be with us forever. He has been a true and dear friend and trusted adviser to members of several generations of the Rothschild family. We express our sincerest sympathy to his beloved wife, Anita, his daughters, Freema and Sheera, and his granddaughters, Arielle and Gabrielle. Guy de Rothschild Evelyn de Rothschild Mary de Rothschild David de Rothschild Eric de Rothschild Edouard de Rothschild Robert de Rothschild Friends and colleagues at Rothschild North America
        $(6$)GLUCK--A. Stanley. SAR Academy mourns the loss of our esteemed Founding Officer of the Board of Trustees who never missed a Board meeting. He helped lead SAR through its inception 37 years ago. He remained a gracious and loyal friend to our school throughout his lifetime. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Anita, daughters, Freema and Sheera, and family. He will be sorely missed by his many friends at SAR. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
        $(6$)GLUCK--A. Stanley. The Solomon Schechter School of Manhattan mourns the passing of our devoted Board member and dear friend, A. Stanley Gluck. He will be sorely missed. We wish comfort to his wife Anita, daughter's Sheera and Freema, son-in-law Harris and grandchildren Arielle and Gabrielle. May Stanley's memory remain for a blessing.
        $(6$)GLUCK -- A. Stanley. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Stanley Gluck, a man of uncommon integrity and goodness. We will miss him in our lives. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife, Anita, and his daughters, Freema and Sheera, and their entire family. Elizabeth and Michael Varet
      