
        LINDERMAN--Morris. November 5, 1906-March 22, 2006. Predeceased by his beloved wife Mae, his life partner of 67 years. Loving, caring father to Essie and Marty, Gary and Janice. And his ''adopted children'' Rita and George Weissman. Adored ''poppa'' to his pride and joy Corey. Grandfather to Jennifer and Jeffrey. Great-grandpa to Dillon. Graduate of New York Law School and practitioner in New York for 50 years. Twice candidate for Municipal Court Judge in Bronx County. An exquisite gentleman. One of a kind. Who would walk into an elevator and doff his hat and say ''good morning'' to whomever was on that elevator. A fantastic kibitzer who could ''mix it up'' with the best of them. A brilliant scholar... always reading and questioning. He was the most gentle man who possessed the highest degree of tolerance and always looked to settle rather than wage war. As a father, he was beyond compare. Always there to try to ease pain and make things okay. Be at BLISSFUL PEACE Dad. May your mind be sharp and clear and may words never fail you. All my love, ''Your Genius'' (retired). Services 11:30 Sunday, Plaza Jewish CommunityChapel, Amsterdam Ave/91 St. NYC.
        $(6$)LINDERMAN--Morris.November 5, 1906-March 22, 2006. 99 years of warm footprints- having left happily indelible marks- not on sidewalks or carpeted apartments, but- on memories of bungalow colonies- on Chanukkah presents along the sofa - bending onto the floor;on rummy games on kitchen tables and- on photographic memories of love along the wall- colored with tones of black and white- of people not forgotten but embracedwho will continue to be remembered;- on a rarely used piano - always present and reassuring;- on the raccoon with the bowtie whose face never frowned;- on those even on the periphery, unable to deny being pulled in like gravity;- on rascals with halos;- on being a judge without judging;- on the smiles generated by the very same as compelling as desire can be;- on the laughs contagious from the laugh;- on the unquestionable devotion;- and the inimitable confidence given to those loved- simply by being who he was- and always will be.- Thank you for being...With love, Tatala Corey Resnick
      