
        SHAW--William. Died March 9, 2006 at the age of 81. Beloved husband of Jacqueline who passed away in 2004. He is survived by his loving daughters Linda & Deborah and his brother Jerome Shaw, as well as sons-in-law Bruce and Neil and seven grandchildren. Founder, President and Chairman of the Board of Volt Information Sciences, Inc. Services will be held Sunday, March 12, 2006 at 12:00 P.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel 21 West Broad St. Mount Vernon NY. In lieu of flowers the family has requested donations be made to the National Parkinson Foundation, 1501 NW 9th Ave, Bob Hope Road, Miami, FL 33136-1494 or www.parkinson. org. William Shaw and his younger brother, Jerome Shaw, invested $13 and founded Volt in 1950. As leader of the fledgling company, William Shaw sought a name that would suggest the image of ''potential'' and ''high energy,'' and the name ''Volt'' was selected. ''Information Sciences'' later was added because it indicated leading-edge technology in many disciplines in the marketplace. ''Bill Shaw overcame great physical challenges and was an amazing example of what you can accomplish through persistence and belief in yourself,'' said Jerome Shaw, Executive Vice President. ''He had excellent business abilities and was an extremely wise and capable businessman. I was a sponge at his side and was constantly learning. When Volt was 20 weeks old and slightly off the ground, Bill invited me out for a Saturday walk. On that walk Bill offered me 50 percent of Volt. It was an unbelievably generous offer. My brother and I were very close. He was my brother, my boss, and my best friend. That closeness grew to a unique relationship, which has lasted our lifetime. I will miss him profoundly.'' During more than five decades at the helm of Volt, William Shaw used his abilities to envision and build an innovative, global organization that emphasizes sound financial management, the development of human potential and the application of new technologies. His drive, imagination, and creativity while President and Chairman of Volt, highlights of which are described below, have led to Volt's tremendous growth from a startup entrepreneurial venture to a Fortune 1000 corporation. Volt originally provided technical publication services. Under Bill Shaw's direction, Volt developed significant engineering knowledge and publication reproduction expertise in the early days of the Atlas and Mercury space programs, which were crucial to the Company's initial success. Later, when asked to provide large numbers of temporary personnel to staff various client projects and businesses, Bill embraced the challenge, thus fostering Volt's entry into the employment marketplace. This staffing division was the forerunner of Volt Services Group, which today has more than 300 branch offices across the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia. When the opportunity to purchase Autologic, a leading-edge electronic imaging and typesetting company, presented itself in 1971, Bill welcomed the chance to apply its capabilities to Volt's existing operations and expand successfully into new opportunities. The Autologic business gave Volt strong entree into telephone directory production and services. While Autologic itself has been sold, as a result, Volt Directory Systems and Services today is one of the nation's largest independent directory producers as well as providing multimedia services to publishers on four continents. Volt's growth in providing technical services and professionals to telephone companies, provided Bill Shaw a strong base upon which to launch the Company's telecommunications services division in 1976. From the performance of a full range of engineering, construction and installation services, this division continues to incorporate emerging technologies in business systems integration and local and wide area network installation as well as wireless services. Seeking business opportunities in the growing technology arena, Bill Shaw expanded the Company through further acquisitions. In 1980, Volt acquired Volt Delta and Maintech, establishing the computer systems subsidiary, which pioneered computer-generated directory assistance systems and voice enhancement features. Today, as part of Volt's Computer Systems segment, VoltDelta markets a suite of Internet-based information services solutions to telecommunications companies worldwide. Maintech's services portfolio includes hardware maintenance, network operations center services and technology refresh services. Further corporate milestones achieved by Volt under Mr. Shaw include listing on the New York Stock Exchange, inclusion in a Standard and Poor's Index, achieving ISO-9002 certification, adopting Six Sigma methodologies, as well as receiving numerous awards of recognition from corporate and community organizations. In December 2006 Mr. Shaw was instrumental in the Volt Delta Resources LLC subsidiary's acquisition of Varetis Solutions GMBH and the repurchase of a minority interest from Nortel Networks which it had received for contributing certain assets and certain liabilities of its directory and operator services business to VoltDelta in August, 2004. ''We grieve the loss of my uncle,'' said Steve Shaw, Executive Vice President andCEO of Volt. ''Volt has lost a remarkable man, leader, visionary and friend. His loss will be deeply felt throughout the organization.'' Bill Shaw will be profoundly missed by his family and friends, company employees, past and present, and by the individuals and organizations he influenced and affected throughout the business community.
        SHAW--William. All of us are saddened to learn of the death of our long time client and friend, Bill Shaw. Many of us first knew Bill as a client of our predecessor firm, Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl. We first met Bill in 1961 and have had the privilege of working with him in the interim years and have learned to admire and respect his brilliance and judgment as well as his extraordinary leadership. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Troutman Sanders LLP
      