
        LEARY--Kevin J., a business consultant, Knight of Malta and committed family man and father, died peacefully on March 11 of brain cancer. He was 49 years old. ''Kevin lived a life of faith and goodness,'' said his wife, Monica. ''He gave so much and led by his quiet example.'' Mr. Leary was a Knight of the Order of Malta, an honor which reflected his life-long commitment to service for the sick and poor around the world. As an active member of the Church of Saint Aidan he worked with the Office of Social Ministry and was a Eucharistic Minister. Mr. Leary attended St. Mary's High School in Manhasset, New York. He also was a graduate of The College of William and Mary and Harvard Business School. He was a business consultant and worked most recently as a Director with Alix Partners as a turn-around expert. Mr. Leary was based in the New York office and worked on the largest and most complex turn-arounds. Previously, he was a Managing Partner at Leary, Masson, and Associates and its precedent Management and Capital Consultant, Inc. In addition, Mr. Leary participated in the initial public offerings of several companies. Mr. Leary lived with and adored his family in East Williston, New York. Previously, he and his family resided in Lake Forest, Illinois, and Winchester, Massachusetts, where he leaves a host of friends. He was the loving and devoted husband of Monica and the proud and involved father of Megan, Maura, Jack, Matthew, and Peter. Mr. Leary is also survived by his loving parents Joseph and Barbara Leary, brothers Brian, Patrick and Michael Leary and sister Maureen Taylor. Visiting Monday & Tuesday, 2-5 & 79PM, at Weigand Bros Funeral Home, 49 Hillside Ave, Williston Park, NY. Funeral Mass Wednesday, 10AM, at St. Aidan's R.C. Church, 505 Willis Ave, Williston Park, NY. Interment Holy Rood Cemetery, Westbury, NY. In lieu of flowers donations to the following charities are appreciated: Tanzanian Children's Fund, 45 Exchange Street, Portland, ME 04101, 413-253-3904. The Brian Tumor Foundation, 1350 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10019, 212265-2401. MS Cure Fund. 142 Berkeley Street, Boston, MA 02116, 617-375-9900.
      