
        KAESS--Kenneth R., President and CEO of DDB Worldwide, died peacefully on March 27, 2006 in his family home in Westport, CT. Ken was a beloved father to his children, Courtney and Christopher, a devoted son to Dr. Kenneth R. Kaess, Sr. of Redding, Connecticut and a dedicated brother to Karl Kaess of Wilton, Connecticut and Karen Clark of Greenwich, Connecticut. He is also survived by his former wife, Heidi Warner Kaess. Funeral services will be conducted at Christ and Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, 55 Myrtle Avenue, Westport, Connecticut at 11 AM on Friday, March 31st. Good friends, Reverend John Branson and Reverend Maryetta Anschutz will officiate. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in Ken's name to Mermorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (Thoracic Oncology Research), 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York, 10021 and Builders Beyond Borders, 8 Willard Road, Norwalk, Connecticut, 06851. The funeral service is for close friends and family. A memorial service will be held at a later date in Manhattan. Ken will be missed by all whose lives he touched.
        $(6$)KAESS--Ken. DDB Worldwide and its staff are deeply saddened by the death of our President and CEO Ken Kaess. Ken was determined to bring diversity to the advertising business, and in 1998 he founded the Bill Bernbach Minority Scholarship Fund (named for one of DDB's founding fathers). The New York Urban League honored Ken in 2004 with the Frederick Douglass award for his role in promoting diversity and opportunity. Former Chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, two-term member of the board of the Ad Council and the American Education Foundation, and two-term chairman for Advertising Week, Ken's presence in our industry will be missed. A man of many talents, Ken was an accomplished pianist who toyed with the idea of becoming a professional musician before landing at Doyle Dane Bernbach in 1976. He was a mentor, a leader, a pioneer, a humanist and a friend. We are grateful to have worked with him. Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the Kaess family, Heidi, Courtney and Christopher, his father Dr. Kenneth Richard Kaess Sr., his sister Karen and his brother Karl. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to: Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021 or Builders Beyond Borders, 8 Willard Road, Norwalk, CT 06851. Funeral services will be for family and close friends, at 11 A.M. Friday, March 31, at Christ and Holy Trinity Church, 55 Myrtle Avenue, Westport, CT. A memorial service will be held in Manhattan at a date to be announced.
      