
        FREEDMAN--James O. It is with deep sorrow that the Officers, Councilors, and members of the Trust of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourn the loss of James Freedman, distinguished legal scholar, university leader, and President of the Academy from 2000-2001. Throughout his academic career and as President of the University of Iowa and Dartmouth College, he worked to promote diversity and social justice and to strengthen the role of the intellectual in advancing the mission of a democratic society. In words and actions, he demonstrated the importance of what he called ''an opening up of mind and spirit to a symphony of different persons, cultures, traditions, and languages.'' Nothing was more important to him than the values of a liberal education and the concept of ''intellectual wholeness'', ideals that are embodied in the work of the Academy. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Bathsheba, his family, and all those touched by his wisdom, eloquence, and grace. Patricia Meyer Spacks, President Louis W. Cabot, Vice President and Chair of the Academy Trust John S. Reed, Treasurer Jerrold Meinwald, Secretary Leslie C. Berlowitz, Chief Executive Officer
        $(6$)FREEDMAN--James O. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of James Freedman, a beloved member of AJC's Board of Governors and former chairman of our Domestic Policy Commission. A proud American and a proud Jew, Jim was a distinguished educator, scholar and author whose impassioned voice against all forms of bigotry helped to shape a more tolerant and compassionate society. Jim was the co-author of a major national statement, published in 2002 by AJC following a rash of anti-Semitic incidents on campus, which articulated the duty of university presidents to oppose intimidation against all groups in order to cultivate a campus climate open to the full exploration of ideas. The statement was signed by more than 300 college and university presidents. We were proud to honor Jim in 2003 with AJC's National Distinguished Leadership Award. His wisdom, warmth, generosity of spirit and unassuming manner will be sorely missed. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Bathsheba, his children Jared and Deborah, his four grandchildren and the rest of his grieving family. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)FREEDMAN--James O. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of our colleague James O. Freedman. Just prior to his death we honored our institution by appointing Jim the first Lifetime Governor Emeritus in recognition of all that he had done in his most extraordinary career and for his care and concern for HUC and the Jewish people. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his devoted wife, Bathsheba, their children, Deborah and Jared, and their grandchildren. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
      