
        KLEIN--Joseph L., a Naples, Florida resident for the past 36 years, born July 20, 1910, in Manhattan, New York City, passed from his earthly stewardship to eternal life on Wednesday, March 8, 2006, by the Will of God, in Naples. His beloved wife, Vera, predeceased him when she was called to her heavenly reward on March 3, 1992. He was a career police officer in the New York City Police Department, with 35 years of service. He retired in May, 1971, with Rank of ''Deputy Chief.'' His assignments were many and varied, working his way from foot patrol in the 7th Precinct in Manhattan to command of the 11th Division in Brooklyn, a post he held for five years, until retirement. In 1960 he was Captain of the 60th Precinct (Coney Island). An interesting note, from Memorial Day to Labor Day, 1960, from Park Department records, some 45 million people who visited this recreational facility were policed by a patrol force of 400 men under his command. He supervised Patrol, Administrative and Plainclothes duties in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. While assigned as Administrative Officer of Brooklyn South Patrol Forces, he authored an article on ''Police Administration'' that was published in the ''Police Management Review''. He conducted ''Operations Management Seminars'' and ''Criminal Investigation'' courses at the New York City Police Academy. He served as a Panel Member of the Civilian Complaint Review Board. During retirement, in July of 1994, he prepared a manuscript, chronicling some of the experiences of his interesting thirtyfive career years, rising up through seven ranks and working for nine Police Commissioners. In December of 1996 his book, ''THE POLICE CAREER: An Endless Challenge,'' published by Vantage Press, was officially released on the literary market. In January of 2003 he conceived the idea to document his ''MEMOIRS,'' covering the date of his birth, July 20, 1910, to 1936. He felt that his experiences were of such caliber, unique, unusual, beyond comparison and challenge, that they were worthy of documentation. He ''lived out'' his ambitions and youthful fantasies, as preludes to his ''Police Career.'' The bottom line is that he played Broadway and he patrolled Broadway. ''MEMOIRS, 1910 to 1936: That Shaped My Life'' was published in 2004 by Vantage Press. He is a Life Member of the following Organizations: The P.B.A. of the New York City Police Department, The Captain's Endowment Association, The International Association of the Chiefs of Police, The International Police Association, the U.S. Section, District 11. He is a member of The New York Veteran Police Association, S.O.A.R. and Central Florida 10-13, and The Florida Peace Officers' Association. He is a Life Member of The Naples Cruise Club, The Naples Sailing and Power Squadron and The Naples Elks #
      