
        OSTROFF--Harold, on March 2nd, 2006. Husband of the late Frieda. Father of Madelon and Philip Braun and the late Sandra Ostroff. Grandfather of Kelli and Andrew Braun, Jessica and Andrew Rich, Alison Gottlieb and Geoffrey Friedman, Debra and Pat Ewing. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Matthew, Sam and Coby. Beloved best friend of Adrian Bernick. A man whose warmth, integrity and passionate commitment to improving the lives of others will always inspire. Services Sunday, 12 noon, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Donations in his memory may be made to Workmen's Circle Center for Social and Economic Justice, 45 E. 33rd St., NYC 10016 or YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, 15 W. 16th St., NYC 10011.
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The Board of Directors and staff of Amalgamated Bank mourn the passing of our close friend, client and colleague. He shared our commitment to working people and was a strong advocate of cooperative housing developments, first at the Amalgamated Housing Cooperative in the Bronx and later at the United Housing Foundation. He was instrumental in helping create tens of thousands of beautiful housing units in New York City for low and moderate income families. In 1990, he was elected to the National Cooperative Hall of Fame in Washington, DC. He also worked tirelessly to improve conditions for working men and women through his long-time association with the Workmen's Circle and its newspaper, The Forward. He will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bruce Raynor Chairman of the Board Derrick Cephas President and CEO Leonard Maisel Senior Vice President Hyman Federman First Vice President
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. We mourn the loss of our friend, neighbor and longtime cooperator (a pioneer no less!), Harold Ostroff. From early childhood until his last few years, Harold was one of us. He dedicated his life to the cooperative ideals our community was built on, and through UHF, expanded cooperative housing opportunities for many more families. A member of the Cooperative Hall of Fame, we are proud of his career. We remain true to his ideals and will miss our friend. Our hearts are with the family. Amalgamated Houses Park Reservoir Houses Bronx, NY
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of its beloved leader, Harold Ostroff. We have lost a giant. Harold served four terms as President of The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring, bringing vitality to every level of our organization. Harold's clarity of vision and passion for Jewish community, Yiddish culture and social justice inspire us. Our loving condolences to his cherished children Maddy and Philip, grandchildren Andrew, Jessica, Alison and Debra and their families. Nat'l Executive Board of The Workmen's Circle Peter Pepper, President Rob't Kestenbaum, Exec Dir
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The members of the Forward Association and the employees of the Forward Newspapers mourn the passing of Harold Ostroff at age 82 on March 2, 2006. He was a life long champion of the working man and defender of labor rights. As General Manager for over two difficult decades he saved the Yiddish Forverts and launched the Forward in English in 1990. To all who knew of him, he was a giant. To all who knew him, he was a mentsch. Zol di erd af im gring zayn. Barnett Zumoff, President Samuel Norich, Exec Dir
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. The Officers and Directors of Parkside Memorial Chapels mark with profound sorrow the passing of our good friend. Harold's warm and compassionate demeanor will be missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences are extended to his devoted children, Madelon and Philip Braun, his best friend, Adrian Bernick, and his loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Edward S. Goldstein Secretary David E. Goldstein Vice President
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. We mourn the passing of our Chairman and leader. Both an idealist and a pragmatist, he was truly a giant in the development of affordable cooperative housing. His wisdom, guidance and enduring friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his loving family. Irving J. Alter, David Smith, Harvey Sigelbaum and Ed Yaker, Board of Directors Ken Wray, Exec. Director United Housing Foundation
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Friend, mentor, wise man, an inspiration to all whose life he has touched. What a legacy he leaves to all of us--kindness, warmth and fierce commitment to causes of social justice. We cannot count the ways in which he will be missed--except to know there will never be a day when one of us doesn't say, ''What does Harold think?'' Rest in peace. Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, P.C.
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. The Tamiment Institute deeply mourns the death of its longtime Board member. A man of remarkable vision and determination, he unselfishly devoted himself to the preservation of Jewish culture and the social welfare of all humanity. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Mitchel Levitas, President Myron Kolatch, Secretary
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Our beloved cousin Heshie was always there for family. We will remember him with love and respect. William and Helen Slivka
      