
        SEGAL--Arnold, March 1, 2006 of Maplewood, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Hattie for 68 years, exceptional father to Richard and Poppy, Kenneth and Karen, Stephen and Patricia, extraordinary grandfather to Cory, Randi, Robyn, Allyson, Michelle, Adam, Adina, Noah and Zachary, proud great-grandfather of Benjamin, Nathan, Sarah, Joseph, Caroline, and Jared, and dear brother to Charles. In conjunction with his late brothers Joseph, Hyman, and Max, and his brother, Charles, Arnold was a founding and dynamic partner of Segal and Segal, a real estate development company founded in 1950. Throughout his life, Arnold exemplified the best that humanity has to offer. He gave his love, his time, and his resources generously to his family, his friends, his community, Israel and the world at large. He was a natural leader who inspired everyone by his example and commitment. Arnold was a Vice President and Chairman of the Building Committee at Congregation Beth El, where he was a long time member. Together with Hattie, he was a founder of The Children's Institute, where he served as President from 1975-1979. Over his life, he was active in Jewish Federation, State of Israel Bonds, Interns for Peace, American Jewish Committee, Jewish Welfare Board and B'nai Brith. With Hattie, Arnold created parks and libraries in Israel, supported scientific research at The Weizmann Institute, Johns Hopkins University, and Mt. Sinai Hospital, improved hospital facilities at St. Barnabas and Mt. Sinai, and endowed services for needy children through the Jewish Community at Metro West. Arnold loved life and everyone in his life loved him. Funeral services were held at Congregation Beth El, 222 Irvington Ave. South Orange, N.J. on Thursday March 2, 2006. Shiva will be observed at the Segal Residence, 616 South Orange Ave., Maplewood, N.J. 07040, on the evenings of March 2 and March 4, and during the day of March 5. Information call Bernheim-Apter - Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel (800) 938-6372. Contributions can be made to the Segal Family Food Allergy Research Fund, payable to Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, Box 1049, NY,NY 10029, Attention: Clare Garfield or to The Children's Institute, 1 Sunset Avenue, Verona, New Jersey 07044.
      