
        KAESS--Ken. DDB Worldwide and its staff are deeply saddened by the death of our President and CEO Ken Kaess. Ken was determined to bring diversity to the advertising business, and in 1998 he founded the Bill Bernbach Minority Scholarship Fund (named for one of DDB's founding fathers). The New York Urban League honored Ken in 2004 with the Frederick Douglass award for his role in promoting diversity and opportunity. Former Chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, two-term member of the board of the Ad Council and the American Education Foundation, and two-term chairman for Advertising Week, Ken's presence in our industry will be missed. A man of many talents, Ken was an accomplished pianist who toyed with the idea of becoming a professional musician before landing at Doyle Dane Bernbach in 1976. He was a mentor, a leader, a pioneer, a humanist and a friend. We are grateful to have worked with him. Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the Kaess family, Heidi, Courtney and Christopher, his father Dr. Kenneth Richard Kaess Sr., his sister Karen and his brother Karl. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to: Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021 or Builders Beyond Borders, 8 Willard Road, Norwalk, CT 06851. Funeral services will be for family and close friends, at 11 A.M. Friday, March 31, at Christ and Holy Trinity Church, 55 Myrtle Avenue, Westport, CT. A memorial service will be held in Manhattan at a date to be announced.
        $(6$)KAESS--Ken R. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Advertising Educational Foundation mourn the loss of Ken Kaess, Chairman of the AEF Board and President and CEO of DDB Worldwide Communications Group, Inc. Ken distinguished himself as a leader of this industry and as a friend. We shall miss his ready smile, his guidance, his enthusiasm and his support. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Paula Alex, CEO of AEF
        $(6$)KAESS--Ken. Davis & Gilbert LLP deeply regrets the passing of our longtime friend and client Ken Kaess, President and CEO of DDB Worldwide. The advertising industry is diminished by the loss of his talent, friendship, leadership and enthusiasm. We extend heartfelt sympathy to the entire Kaess family.
      