
        MOFFO--Anna. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of Anna Moffo, a cherished artist and beloved friend. In the 17 seasons she sang with the Met she became a favorite not only with audiences, but with all of those who worked with her and came to know her. Her legacy of memorable portrayals at the Met included 18 roles, among them an irresistable Manon and a touching Liu in ''Turandot,'' which were seen in new productions. But she will be best remembered as Violetta, the role of her 1959 Metropolitan Opera debut and one which she went on to sing 80 times during her Met career, including a new production presented during the opening week of the new house at Lincoln Center. She continued to generously support the Met following her retirement and was a glamorous and charming presence at many of our galas and special events. We will miss her dearly and extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Music Director
        $(6$)MOFFO--Anna. Great singer! Great gal! We will all miss you enormously. Marilyn Horne and The Marilyn Horne Fdn
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr. One of the greatest sopranos of her time, Anna brought joy to opera lovers throughout the world. Her many memorable roles included Mimi, Manon, Liu, Cio-Cio San, Violetta and the Countess. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St on Monday March 13 from 6-8 and Tuesday March 14 from 5-7. Funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 50th St and 5th Ave on Wednesday, March 15 at 10AM. Burial private. Contributions in her memory should be made to the American Cancer Society, 19 W 56 St, New York, NY 10019.
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Board of Trustees of the Bagby Foundation for the Musical Arts notes with profound sorrow the death of our beloved Trustee, Anna Moffo Sarnoff. A Trustee since 1989, she has been a devoted friend and Board Member. We also remember with great admiration her many years of performance as one of the most admired ''Divas'' of the Metropolitan Opera, as well as opera houses throughout the world. Her good humor, as well as her compassion and concern for the less fortunate, have earned her the friendship and respect of her fellow Trustees. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Rose Bampton Pelletier, Honorary Chairman F. Malcolm Graff, Jr., Chairman Blanche Lark Christerson, President
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. Beloved member of the American Cancer Society family who led a remarkable life dedicated to music and devoted to humanity. She captivated the world with her extraordinary voice, grace and beauty. She captured our hearts with her passion for life. She will always be loved and treasured beyond measure. We deeply mourn her passing and, in her honor, we pledge to continue the fight against cancer and never give up. Brava La Moffo! American Cancer Society Donald Distasio, CEO Diana Feldman, Chairman Special Events Luis and Terrianne
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Trustees, Faculty, Staff, and Students of The Curtis Institute of Music mourn the loss of Anna Moffo, a beloved alumna. She was a great artist and a great lady, and we will miss her deeply. Richard A. Doran, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gary Graffman, President/Director
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Board of the George London Foundation for Singers mourns the passing of soprano Anna Moffo, friend and supporter of the Foundation and beloved colleague of George London. Her great artistry and striking beauty will always be remembered. Nora London, President
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF--Anna. A beloved friend, a beautiful, giving person, a brilliant hostess, a supreme musicologist, a loyal New York Yankee fan whose vibrant company was engaging and a gift to us. Anna, you will be missed. Sahra and William Lese
      