
        GARDNER--Joe. Joe Gardner was one of a kind. In an age of rough-and-tumble real estate developers, Joe was like an oasis. He was kind, generous, thoughtful, considerate, honorable and committed to doing the right thing at all times. Over 25 years of doing business with P&J Realty, Newmark Knight Frank and its partners were comfortable in the knowledge that our clients who leased space in his buildings would be happy and well taken care of. He was a pioneer in the residential conversion business in Midtown South, Greenwich Village, Chelsea and SoHo. Joe's life changed drastically after 9-11, with the loss of his only son, Doug, who was his right hand and best friend. We mourn Joe's loss. He will be missed by all of the partners and brokers at Newmark Knight Frank. Our hearts go out to Danielle and Charlotte, who we hope will find peace and solace in their memories of such a great and wonderful man.
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joe. To Joe Gardner, who passed away on March 1, 2006--a great client, teacher, and most importantly, friend: I am so sad that you have left my life and the lives of everyone that you have touched. You taught me about business, life and people. You called it as you saw it, and stood by what you believed in. Your uncompromising moral character, your honesty, decency and loyalty, is unparalleled by anyone that I have ever known. It will be embedded in me forever. Your love of family, the real estate business and the people around you, coupled with your unyielding inner strength to carry on in the face of horrific tragedy, are a testament to you and an inspiration to everyone who knew you. I will miss you very much. Sleep well my friend, & most importantly, don't worry. Rob Silver
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph H. The members of the NYU Leonard N. Stern School of Business community mourn the passing of their dear friend, Joseph H. Gardner. He was a dedicated supporter of the School, and a close advisor to many Deans over the years. Joe's commitment to our students inspired us all. The Charlotte and Joseph Gardner Scholarship will continue to touch the lives of needy undergraduate students, and the Douglas B. and Joseph H. Gardner Commons is a lasting tribute to this exemplary man and his son. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Charlotte, his daughter, Danielle, and their family.
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joseph Gardner, who together with his family have strengthened millions of lives through their passionate commitment and support. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Joseph's beloved wife, Charlotte; to his daughter, Danielle; to his daughterin-law, Jennifer; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)GARDNER -- Joseph. Peter Weisman and family, extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Joseph H. Gardner. Joe will be remembered for 38 years of partnership and wise counsel. He was a good friend and will be missed by all of us.
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph. To our first client, constant mentor in our real estate careers, and everlasting friend. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. We will miss you. Gene Warren and Norman Buchbinder
        $(6$)GARDNER--Joseph. The employees of P&J Realty Management LLC along with the company's partners and friends, mourn the passing of Joseph H. Gardner and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        $(6$)GARDNER -- Joseph. Best friend, mentor and advisor. Our love to Charlotte and Danielle. Nancy and Allan
      