
        SEARLES--Evelyn. Died February 28, 2006 after a short illness. Her grandfather, Seligman, a banker, helped the Union cause and raised funds selling bonds to Great Britain. Ulysses S. Grant, upon his ascendancy to President of the United States, requested her grandfather to be the Secretary of the Treasury. He declined. Eve traveled with an acting group performing Noel Coward plays touring both Connecticut and New York which horrified her grandfather prompting him to hire detectives to bring her home. Born in New York City, she attended Brearley in NY, later transferred to Swiss schools; spent four years in Paris, graduated, thereafter studied art in Paris, Venice, and Florence, Italy, studying at the Pitti and the Uffizi Galleries daily. Her father in the late 20's bought a villa in Cannes. Eve served as a hostess. Following World War II she worked processing American soldiers. Her primary interest was psychology and mental health. She moved to Topeka, KS, met psychiatrist Professor Karl Menninger, admired him and attended classes for psychiatrists. Professor Menninger was impressed with Eve's understanding of mental illness; she became Menninger's Director of the Women's Mental Hospital. Menninger requested that she teach mental health at Yale University. She established the first Department of Mental Health at Yale and led women to teach at universities. Frank Vanderlip, Chairman of New York's Committee on Mental Health Needs, asked her to make a study of all mental hospitals in NYC which made a lasting impact creating a lifetime interest in mental health. In Tucson, she led mental health groups bringing the needs of people with mental illnesses to the public's attention. She be came a founder of the Library at the University of Arizona and aided in mental health across America. She endowed the College of Nursing at the University of Arizona with nursing scholarships. She funded education at the Menninger School of Psychiatry through the Eve Searles Fund, endowing research of drug and alcohol addiction problems. She was an advocate for sufferers of men tal illness. Eve is survived by her beloved husband, Sidney Searles of Tucson and New York, her daughter, Audrey Palmer Neville of Los Angeles, son, Michael Palmer of London, step son, David Searles of Tucson, four grandchildren, five great grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in Tucson on April 9, 2006 at 3:30 PM at Adair Funeral Home, Dodge Chapel.
      