
        MOFFO SARNOFF - Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr. One of the greatest sopranos of her time, Anna brought joy to opera lovers throughout the world. Her many memorable roles included Mimi, Manon, Liu, Cio-Cio San, Violetta and the Countess. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St on Monday March 13 from 6-8 and Tuesday March 14 from 5-7. Funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 50th St and 5th Ave on Wednesday, March 15 at 10AM. Burial private. Contributions in her memory should be made to the American Cancer Society, 19 W 56 St, New York, NY 10019.
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Staff and the Board of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourn the death of a great artist and an esteemed colleague, Anna Moffo. As a vice president of the Guild, Anna deftly demonstrated her abilities on countless occassions as a stalwart champion and advocate for opera. A persuasive and graceful public speaker, Anna was a frequent presence at the Guild, always willing to lend her star power to an event that promoted interests in opera and in the Met. Although her increasing need to conserve her energy was apparent to her colleagues, once she stepped to the podium Anna was always vibrant, gracious and wryly funny--the definition of a total professional and a real beauty. Her generous and creative spirit will be remembered by all who knew her. Susan S. Braddock, President Winthrop Rutherfurd, Jr Chairman David A. Dik, Managing Dir
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. 2002 recipient of the Albert Schweitzer Music Award ''for a life's work dedicated to music and devoted to humanity.'' A light has gone out for more close friends than most people meet casually in a lifetime. The miracle of Anna was that the light burned so brightly and with such warmth. Anchor-International Foundation HRH Princess Michael of Kent, Chairman William R. Shankle, M.D. President Richard Torrence and Marshall Yaeger, Founders
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. Elysium-Between Two Continents mourns the loss of Anna Moffo, the extraodinary soprano, beloved teacher and humanitarian. Her grace and her life touched so many. We salute her, our devoted friend and board member. We will miss her grace, light and humor. She will ever inspire us. Gregorij H. von Leitis Artistic Director Michael Lahr, Program Director
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF--Anna. A beloved friend, a beautiful, giving person, a brilliant hostess, a supreme musicologist, a loyal New York Yankee fan whose vibrant company was engaging and a gift to us. Anna, you will be missed. Sahra and William Lese
        $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF--Anna. A great friend and confidante who will be sorely missed. Watching a Yankee game will never be the same without you. Love, Irv and Evelyn Kupin
        $(6$)MOFFO--Anna. Great singer! Great gal! We will all miss you enormously. Marilyn Horne and The Marilyn Horne Fdn
      