
        SCHERZER--Irwin S. Passed away at the age of 73 on February 24, 2006. Beloved son of the late Hyman and Bertha Scherzer. Irwin grew up in Lynn, Massachusetts and was an honors graduate of Harvard College Class of 1954 and Harvard Business School Class of 1956. He served for two years as a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy. He began his business career with west coast based RamoWooldridge Corp., but soon moved to New York and shifted his focus to the management of musical organizations. He got his start managing classical music bookings for Columbia Artists. Thereafter, he held several positions including Vice President of Grey Advertising with responsibility for the RCA classical musical label. In 1969, he became the founding administrative director of the newly formed Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. His management skills contributed mightily to the success of the fledgling effort, now one of the city's musical institutions. He worked closely with the directors of the Society including philanthropist Alice Tully. He subsequently became business manager and trusted adviser to Miss Tully who relied upon his many talents as she pursued her diverse activities in the arts and music. Irwin can only be described with superlatives. He was truly an example of the sui generis personality. Luminous intelligence, brilliant wit and raconteur, striking linguistic ability, generosity of spirit, a keen social conscience and indomitable courage in the face of adversity, these were the qualities that endeared him to his legion of friends. His knowledge of opera, classical music and the culinary arts was encyclopedic. His wit gushed forth in a seemingly unending flow of quips and jaunty apercus. He spoke six languages fluently and had a working knowledge of a half dozen more. He was never satisfied unless his friends shared fully in the realms that gave him pleasure, and thus did he enrich all who knew him. His social consciousness was manifested in his support of the battle against an outmoded social value. His zest for life never flagged despite daunting health issues. He lived a life filled with love and caring. Irwin is survived by his beloved partner, Chien Cho (JJ) Liu, and his devoted cousins Alicia, Babs, Harry, Gloria and Bobby. He will be sorely missed by his many friends who will forever cherish his memory and will find comfort in the warm remembrances of the good times spent with him. His memory can be honored by donations to Tannery Pond Concerts, P.O. Box 446, New Lebanon, NY 12125. A date for a memorial concert will be announced.
      