
        JARKOW--Sydney Peace. A loving, dedicated father who was generous to those in need, a champion of human rights who established the Jarkow Institute for Latin American Studies with the Anti-Defamation League, a business mogul in the children's wear industry, an avid hunter, died of natural causes, peacefully, in his home in Boca Raton, on March 9. He was 90 years old. Mr. Jarkow's passion was for the well-being and love of his family, his wife of 68 years, Edna, and their children, Joan, Kenneth, and Jerilynne, and son-in-law Michael Fierstein. Pappy, as he was called by his six grandchildren and their spouses, Jon and Kerri Halpern, Julie and James Cook, Jason and Katelyn Halpern, Candace Sands, Adam and Adriana Jarkow, and David Fierstein; and their nine great-grandchildren, Kelsey and Joel Halpern, Eliana and Jacob Sands, Leah McClean Jackson and Kelsie Cook and Max Halpern. He is also survived by his sister Adele. Always the salesman, Mr. Jarkow began at age 13, selling balloons on the streets in Coney Island, NY. As an adult, he began selling children's clothing for A.S. Lazarus & Co., developing a rapport with small children's retailers as well as large department stores across the country. In 1943, he established his own firm, Sydney Infants Wear in New York City, which manufactured and jobbed children's wear and children's toys and products. Kent, Inc., and Pixie Playmates rounded out his business endeavors. For more than 50 years, Mr. Jarkow was an industry leader in both sales and charitable endeavors. His son Kenneth worked by his side until the business was sold to Gerber Products at the end of the 20th century. Throughout his life, Sydney--also known as Chick by his close friends-was a philanthropist. Whether it was his generosity with his family and extended family or human rights issues close to his heart or a stranger who serendipitously entered his life, Sydney opened his heart, gave a personal helping hand, and reached for his wallet. ''If I can help, I should help. I worked hard and reaped the financial benefits, so why shouldn't I share that with those who are in need?'' Sydney often said, and there were many who benefited. Mr. Jarkow's international contributions for human rights manifested itself through the Anti-Defamation League. In 1986, he established the Jarkow Institute for Latin America. The Institute enables the ADL to expand human rights programs throughout Latin America. He remained chairman until his death, and he began the institute with Rabbi Martin M. Rosenthal, Executive Director. The Jarkow family is celebrating his life and accomplishments at a private family service in Boca Raton, FL. There is so much to be proud of, so much to be thankful for, so much to smile and laugh about. We all had a great ride with him. ''Having It All,'' a book Mr. Jarkow wrote about his life, truly personifies Sydney P. Jarkow. With love, Edna, Joan, Kenny, Jerilynne and Michael
      