
        OSTROFF--Harold, on March 2nd, 2006. Husband of the late Frieda. Father of Madelon and Philip Braun and the late Sandra Ostroff. Grandfather of Kelli and Andrew Braun, Jessica and Andrew Rich, Alison Gottlieb and Geoffrey Friedman, Debra and Pat Ewing. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Matthew, Sam and Coby. Beloved best friend of Adrian Bernick. A man whose warmth, integrity and passionate commitment to improving the lives of others will always inspire. Services Sunday, 12 noon, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Donations in his memory may be made to Workmen's Circle Center for Social and Economic Justice, 45 E. 33rd St., NYC 10016 or YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, 15 W. 16th St., NYC 10011.
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourns the passing of our distinguished trustee, Harold Ostroff, an ardent supporter of Yiddish language and culture, who since 1984 served on the YIVO Board, as well as the Executive Committee, Buildings & Grounds and Budget Committees. A true giant in Jewish life, and role model for YIVO Board and staff, he was instrumental in planning YIVO's move into the Center for Jewish History. His unique contributions to YIVO and involvement in Yiddish culture, social justice activities, and publishing will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathy goes to his daughter and grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Dr. Carl J. Rheins, Executive Director
        $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The members of the Forward Association and the employees of the Forward Newspapers mourn the passing of Harold Ostroff at age 82 on March 2, 2006. He was a life long champion of the working man and defender of labor rights. As General Manager for over two difficult decades he saved the Yiddish Forverts and launched the Forward in English in 1990. To all who knew of him, he was a giant. To all who knew him, he was a mentsch. Zol di erd af im gring zayn. Barnett Zumoff, President Samuel Norich, Exec Dir
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Friend, mentor, wise man, an inspiration to all whose life he has touched. What a legacy he leaves to all of us--kindness, warmth and fierce commitment to causes of social justice. We cannot count the ways in which he will be missed--except to know there will never be a day when one of us doesn't say, ''What does Harold think?'' Rest in peace. Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, P.C.
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. On behalf of the Coordinating Council of Cooperatives and the more than 30,000 families built by the United Housing Foundation, we mourn the loss of Harold Ostroff, one of its founders, Board Chairman, and tireless advocate for limited equity, non-profit, affordable housing for working and middle income people. Our condolences to his family. David Smith and Ed Yaker Co-Chairmen
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. American ORT mourns the passing of longtime board member Harold Ostroff. Our condolences to the Ostroff family and Adrian Bernick. Hope Kessler, Exec. Director Joe Cohen, President Robert L. Sill, Chairman of the Board
        $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Our beloved cousin Heshie was always there for family. We will remember him with love and respect. William and Helen Slivka
      