
        MOFFO--Anna. The management and staff of Sony BMG Masterworks join the family, friends and admirers of the great American soprano, Anna Moffo in mourning her passing. Ms. Moffo was one of the most distinctive and beautiful singers of her time. She made her greatest recordings for RCA Red Seal, and they will continue to be among the glories of our catalogue. Ms. Moffo's legacy of recordings for the label offers perhaps the most eloquent testimony to the expressive beauty, affecting power and inimitable charm of her singing. In sorrow at her loss, we salute her greatness, which echoes in the radiance of her voice. Gilbert Hetherwick President Sony BMG Masterworks $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr. One of the greatest sopranos of her time, Anna brought joy to opera lovers throughout the world. Her many memorable roles included Mimi, Manon, Liu, Cio-Cio San, Violetta and the Countess. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St on Monday March 13 from 6-8 and Tuesday March 14 from 5-7. Funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 50th St and 5th Ave on Wednesday, March 15 at 10AM. Burial private. Contributions in her memory should be made to the American Cancer Society, 19 W 56 St, New York, NY 10019. $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. Beloved member of the American Cancer Society family who led a remarkable life dedicated to music and devoted to humanity. She captivated the world with her extraordinary voice, grace and beauty. She captured our hearts with her passion for life. She will always be loved and treasured beyond measure. We deeply mourn her passing and, in her honor, we pledge to continue the fight against cancer and never give up. Brava La Moffo! American Cancer Society Donald Distasio, CEO Diana Feldman, Chairman Special Events Luis and Terrianne $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. March 9, 2006. Opera Orchestra of New York notes with great sadness the death of legendary opera star, Anna Moffo. Miss Moffo was a devoted and active Director bringing her knowledge, wit, wisdom and charm to Opera Orchestra. An advocate for young singers, she nurtured and supported their careers. Her glorious voice, extraordinary talent, and great beauty will long be remembered by all those whose lives she touched. Alfred Hubay, President Eve Queler, Music Director $(6$)MOFFO SARNOFF -- Anna. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation mourns the passing of Anna Moffo, the great American soprano, a beloved colleague of Richard Tucker and a generous supporter and friend. Her glorious artistry, her stunning beauty and her personal warmth will always be remembered. Sanford H. Fisher, Chairman Barry Tucker, President
      