
        KETCHAM--James B., 82, Died Thursday, March 16 at home in Jamestown, RI. He was the devoted husband of Ira D. (Davisson) Ketcham for 52 years. He was born in New York City in 1924. He was the son of Jean (Long) & William Tredwell Ketcham. He was a direct descendant of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt. Jim was a graduate of Lawrence School, The Hill School, Yale University, Class of 1945 W and attended Columbia University Medical School. He enlisted in the Army Air Corp (United States Air Force) in 1943 and was a recipient of the Legion of Merit Award for the invention of the M*A*S*H unit (mobile auxiliary surgical hospital). He was an Air Force Captain and was released from his duties in 1953 to pursue a career in business. He was an administrator for Sloan-Kettering Memorial Cancer Center, Paul R. Ray & Company and Kollmorgen Corporation where he retired in 1990. A long-time resident of Lawrence, New York, he retired to Jamestown, RI in 1995. He was both Junior and Senior Warden of Trinity-St. John's Church in Hewlett, New York and was awarded the Bishop's Cross. He was active in the Republican Party in both New York and Jamestown. He was a member of the Holland Lodge, The Reading Room of Newport, the Conanicut Yacht Club, The Rockaway Hunting Club, Lawrence Beach Club and the Cedarhurst Yacht Club. While at Yale University, he was one of the founders of the Nathan Hale Society. Besides his wife, he is survived by his son, George Ketcham of Newport, RI, and his daughters Laurie Camden Ketcham of Jamestown; RI, Susan Ketcham Coffin of Manchester By the Sea, MA and Brucie Ketcham Donahue of Northfield, VT. In addition, he is survived by sons-in-law Lloyd H. Coffin, III and Thomas Donahue and daughterin-law Mimi Ketcham; and grandchildren, Benjamin and Sarah Coffin, James and Catherine Donahue. A funeral service will be held at 11:00 on Saturday, March 25 at St. Matthews Parish, 87 Narragansett Avenue, Jamestown, RI. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Newport Hospital Foundation, 11 Friendship Street, Newport, RI 02840
      