
        FLANIGAN--Brigid Snow. Beloved wife of 51 years of Peter Flanigan, died peacefully on March 16, 2006. Mrs. Flanigan was the mother of Brigid S. Lezak of Portland, OR; Sister Louise Marie Flanigan of Birmingham, AL; Dr. Timothy Flanigan of Tiverton, RI; Megan Skakel of Greenwich, CT; and Robert Flanigan of NYC; and grandmother of 14 grandchildren. Mrs. Flanigan was the daughter of George Palen Snow and Carmel Snow of Long Island and NYC. Throughout her life, Mrs. Flanigan was interested in education, serving at her death on the Board of the Purchase College Foundation of SUNY College at Purchase, and on the Advisory Board of St. Ann Elementary School, on 110th Street in Manhattan. She attended Brearley School, Foxcroft School and Barnard College. Friends may visit at 220 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, NY, from 4:30 PM to 8:00 PM, on Sunday, March 19. A Mass of Christian Burial will be said at Church of the Resurrection, 910 Boston Post Rd, Rye, NY, at 11:00 AM, on Monday, March 20. In lieu of flowers please make a donation to your favorite charity.
        $(6$)FLANIGAN--Brigid S. Purchase College students, faculty and staff and Purchase College Foundation trustees mourn the passing of our beloved friend, trustee and generous benefactor. Brigid's indomitable spirit and devotion to the college are a lasting legacy as are the scholarship funds that she championed. Named in her honor, Brigid Flanigan Drive on campus encircles the trees, daffodils and wildflowers she supported. As a trustee since 1983, her keen intelligence and passion for education and students have guided the Foundation. A benefactor of the College's Performing Arts Center, she was a founding member of the Friends of Music, Dance and the President's Club. The flag at the campus entrance is at halfstaff. The entire Purchase College community offers its deepest condolences to Peter Flanigan and the Flanigan family. Purchase College President Thomas J. Schwarz, Foundation Chair Emily Grant, and V.P. External Affairs Margaret Sullivan
        $(6$)FLANIGAN--Brigid. It is with great sadness that the InnerCity Scholarship Fund Trustees note the passing of Brigid Flanigan, wife of our good friend Peter Flanigan. We are grateful for Mrs. Flanigan's profound commitment to the inner-city school's of the Archdiocese of NY and the children they serve. Her generosity will not soon be forgotten. Our hearts go out to Peter and the entire Flanigan family in this time of loss.
      