
        ASHER--Mark G. Highly awarded Washington Post Sports Reporter 1945-2006 A Family's Memories. He started every day by asking his daughters ''Are you doing what is right in your heart?'' and he lived his life the same way. To their replies, he never said ''What I would have done if I were you...'' believing that people never get to be anybody but who they are. Those who couldn't see past Mark's physical condition no doubt wondered how he unfailingly answered ''Great!'' (with a big smile) when asked ''How are you?'' But the explanation was simple: Mark only wanted people to see through his less-than-healthy body to the healthy, vibrant presence inside. In turn, Mark gave what he wanted: acceptance. When a companion reacted negatively to two men holding hands, Mark replied ''Isn't it wonderful that we're in America where they can do that in public?'' And when he couldn't make his points gently, Mark battled. Society's treatment of people with disabilities and other inequities became his causes. His love for life showed in his love for food. If he hadn't been a sports reporter, Mark would have wanted to be a food critic. There was hardly a restaurant he hadn't visited. During his last days, when Mark couldn't drink or eat and his family told him they could not enjoy eating, he said, ''Eat all the foods that I love for me and that will make me happy.'' Mark won numerous awards from the Associated Press Sports Editors Association: 1983 -1st Place, Best News Story; 1985 -5th Place, Best Enterprise Reporting; 1986 -2nd Place, Best Enterprise Reporting; 1986 -2nd Place, Best Investigative Reporting; 1990 -Best Sports News Story; and 1996 -4th Place, Best Enterprise Reporting. He was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 1986, won the 1990 Associated Press's Chesapeake Mark Twain Award for Outstanding Achievement in sports coverage, the 1997 Society of Professional Journalists' Washington Dateline Award for Excellence in Local Journalism, and the 2002 U.S. Basketball Writers Association's Katha Quinn Award. He was a Washington Post Duke University Fellow from 1989-90. NBA Commissioner David Stern once called Mark ''The Murray Chass of the Washington Post.'' The last few years of Mark's professional life were difficult. While grateful for the support of those who knew what he could still do, Mark felt the Post's changing culture brought in some people who only saw his disabilities. But to the end, as his beloved daughters, Lizzie and Melanie, and devoted wife, Elizabeth, fondly recall, Mark still replied to some of their calls with the classic reporter's line: ''I have to call you back. I'm on deadline.'' Mark reluctantly retired on November 1, 2005. Asked by his children when he would have wanted to retire, Mark replied ''I would like to have died in the newsroom.'' Elizabeth, Queenie, Mello
      