
        SELIG--Martha K. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Martha K. Selig. She was 93 years old and died of heart failure on April 8th, at home, peacefully in her sleep. She was known for her pioneering leadership in the field of social work, but the passion closest to her heart was her family, especially Kal, her adored late husband. Martha deeply loved her daughters and sons-in-laws, Judith and Howard Rubenstein, and Elaine and David Gould, and her grandchildren Emily Rubenstein, Adam Rubenstein, Jennifer Rubenstein, and John Rubenstein, Dina and Adrian Halme, Talya Gould and Sara Gould, and Jennifer's fiance, Benjamin Zigun. Martha took great pride in all of their accomplishments. Her family in turn was very proud of Martha's professional achievements and unstinting dedication to Jewish communal service. She was a devoted wife, mother, grandmother, friend, mentor and teacher. Contributions in her memory can be made to the Martha K. Selig Institute of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 120 West 57th Street, Room 921, NY, NY 10019. Named for her by her admirers, the Institute remains among her greatest honors and most significant accomplishments in advancing the education and training of social work professionals. She will be greatly missed, but the world will continue to benefit from her good works.
        $(6$)SELIG--Martha K. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourns the passing of Martha K. Selig. She was a true giant in the social work field whose career spanned six decades. As the first director of community services at the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, Martha was the catalyst for many of the programs and agencies which today form the extraordinary UJAFederation network. She joined JBFCS in 1974 after her ''retirement'' from Federation and the Scheuer Family Foundation. At JBFCS, she was responsible for helping to develop some of the most innovative program models in social work and mental health. Her greatest passion and most prized accomplishment was the expansion of the agency's professional education division, considered among the best in the country. It was named the Martha K. Selig Educational Institute by her beloved friends Bud and Amy Cohen. Martha further helped advance clinical excellence with the creation of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, a partnership with the Columbia University School of Social Work, and the Saul Z. Cohen Chair in Child and Family Mental Health. In 1989, she led the agency in its $25 million capital campaign which allowed for the rebuilding of aging facilities and strengthened programming to meet newly emerging community needs. In partnership with her dear friends, Rita and Stanley Kaplan, Martha inspired the creation of the Kaplan Center for Community Services in mid-Brooklyn, and just last year saw the opening of another of her dreams, The J.W. Beatman Center, a state-ofthe-art services center in Riverdale. Martha was very proud to call herself a social worker. A true one of a kind, she was smart and determined and challenged us at every juncture. We will miss her every day but will continue to follow her instructions to always do better and to never, never, never give up. Our sincere condolences to her daughters, Elaine, a Selig Institute board member, and Judy and their families whom Martha loved and cherished most of all. John A. Herrmann Jr., President Jean L. Troubh, Co-chair of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, Co-chair of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive VP and CEO Paul Levine, LCSW, Associate Executive VP Stephanie Bernheim, President, Martha K. Selig Institute Rick Greenberg, Ph.D., Director, Selig Institute
        $(6$)SELIG--Martha. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Martha Selig, a devoted leader whose commitment to the New York Jewish community had a profound impact on the lives of families and children throughout the area. Ms. Selig was until recently a senior professional at the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. Considered a pioneer in the Jewish communal field, Ms. Selig served as a senior professional at UJA-Federation for 25 years. During her tenure, she served as Executive Director for Community Services, and was instrumental in developing many of the health and human - service programs currently serving the NY metropolitan area. She was the visionary behind the creation of services so vital to the dignity and well-being of thousands of children and families. We extend our deepest sympathies to her daughters Judith Rubenstein and her husband, Howard, Elaine Gould and her husband, David; to her grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        $(6$)SELIG--Martha. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
      