
        MADOFF--Roger. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Queens College Foundation express their deepest condolences to Peter and Marion Madoff and the Madoff family on the loss of their beloved son Roger.
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Life is so unfair. We are heartbroken by the devastating loss of such an extraordinary young man. We are saddened to think of all the wonderful things he surely would have accomplished. He inspired us with his courage and valiant struggle against tremendous odds. We shall hold him in our hearts forever. Our love and deepest sympathy to his adoring parents, Marion and Peter, wonderful sister Shana, loving wife Jennifer, devoted aunt and uncle Ruth and Bernie, and the entire Madoff family. Ruth and Carl Shapiro Rhonda and Michael Zinner Ellen and Robert Jaffe Linda and Daniel Waintrup
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Roger Madoff, beloved son of Peter and Marion Madoff, and nephew of Bernard Madoff, cherished friends and leaders whose deep commitment to the New York Jewish community profoundly impacts millions of lives. We extend our deepest sympathies to Roger's wife Jennifer, to Peter and Marion, to Bernard, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The entire Board of Trustees and staff of The New York Chapter of The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society mourn the loss of this courageous young man. We extend our most heartfelt sympathies to Roger's sister and our dear fellow Board member, Shana, his adoring wife Jennifer and his loving parents Marion and Peter. Leslie Elliot Krause, Chair, Board of Trustees, NY City Chapter, Leukemia & Lymphoma Soc.
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend heartfelt sympathy to our devoted leaders and friends, Marion and Peter Madoff, on the untimely passing of their beloved son. Our sincere condolences to the entire family. Lawrence Simon, Chairman Arthur Goldstein, President Joseph Gurwin, President Emeritus Herbert Friedman, Exec. VP
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Our dear Roger, you fought bravely to the end, never losing any of the wonderful spirit of you. That spirit, with the ongoing loving support of Jen, Peter, Marion, Shana, Marty and Lois and the help of the extraordinary medical team at Weill Cornell, held us all together. You will be in our hearts forever. Bernie and Ruth Mark and Stephanie Andy and Debbie
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger David. The Board of the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation mourns the death of Roger Madoff. We knew him as a brilliant, courageous and innovative young man taken from all of us much too soon. Our heartfelt condolences to his wonderful family. Evelyn and Herb Strauss The Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Our hearts are broken. Most precious son of Marion and Peter, loving husband of Jen, very special brother of Shana and uncle of Rebecca. You and your family were called upon too soon to struggle for your life. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Madoff family. Susan and Ed Blumenfeld and family
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger David. Roger courageously faced many obstacles in his fight against leukemia. It would have been difficult for most people, but he accepted each challenge with hope. His courage is an inspiration to us all. Our deepest sympathy to the Madoff family. Marilyn and Ira Trachtman
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. We deeply mourn the loss of Roger, most dearly cherished son of Marion and Peter, beloved husband of Jen and dear brother of Shana. Our thoughts and love are with the entire Madoff family. Renee and Stanley Shapiro and Family
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. On behalf of 975 Park Avenue, The Board of Directors wishes to express its sadness on the passing of Roger Madoff and hopes that wonderful memories will sustain our neighbors, Marion and Peter, at this time of grief.
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum extend their deepest sympathies to Marion and Peter, Jennifer, Shana, Bernard and the entire Madoff family. Ruth J. Abram, President
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The staff and volunteers of The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society mourn the untimely loss of Roger Madoff and express our heartfelt sympathies to the Madoff family. John Kamins, Chairman Board of Directors
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. To have known him was a privilege, to lose him a tragedy. Our hearts go out to Jen, Marion, Peter, Shana, Rebecca, Lois Marty and the whole Madoff family. The Goldman Families
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. We mourn the loss of your gentle spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Jen, Peter, Marion, Shana and Rebecca and the entire Madoff family. Judy and Paul Konigsberg
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Our hearts are broken. Deepest condolences to Marion, Peter, Jen and Shana and the entire Madoff family. Fred and Susan Konigsberg Joan and David Goebel
      