
        MICHAEL--Sidney, 85 years old, passed away on Saturday, April 1, 2006, from injuries sustained in a fall on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Sid, a lifelong resident of New York, was the owner of Capitol Distributors Corporation and a former board member of the City Athletic Club. A veteran of World War II, Sid served in the Army artillery, taking part in the Battle of the Bulge, avoiding capture by leading a group of men off the road and into the hills after discerning that the road signs had been reversed by German infiltrators. Sid later joined up with Airborne troops who had liberated Bastogne and, later still, rejoined the artillery units that marched into Germany. A gentle giant of a man, Sid was a superb athlete, avid sportsman, and was once asked to audition for the role of Tarzan, later given to Johnny Weissmuller. As a young man he was an expert rider and starred on the track and field team at DeWitt Clinton High School. Later in life loved deep sea fishing, golf and tennis. Sid loved taking adventuresome trips to places such as the Amazon, China, Africa, the Galapagos, New Zealand, etc. When a family member was not available to accompany him, Sid thought nothing of striking out on an adventure on his own, frequently telling his children that they should live with memories, not regrets. Family was the most important thing in Sid's life. He is survived by his wife of fifty three years, the former Lea Wynperle, as well as his two children, Lawrence Michaels and Leslie Michael Tabet, and their spouses Kathryn Flynn Michaels and Christian Antoine Tabet. In addition, he is survived by his adoring grandchildren Serena Michaels, Sarah-Rose Tabet and Max Tabet. Their loss is profound. Sid is also survived by his sisters, Miriam Schoeneman and Frances Randall, their children and grandchildren, as well as the family of his late brother, Melvin Michaels, with whom he worked in partnership for nearly fifty years. In addition, he is survived by his brotherin-law Bernard Wynperle, his wife Ann, and his mother-inlaw Sara Wynperle, as well as numerous friends and associates. The family also wishes to acknowledge the longtime devotion of the Michael's housekeeper Gloria Ortiz. All our hearts are broken by this unexpected tragedy. Services will be held at 12:45, Tuesday, April 4th, at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family is requesting that any donations be made in Sid's name to his longtime friend, Dr. Edgar Housepian at the Neurological Institute, 710 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032.
      