
        GIAMBELLI -- Francesco ''Frank''. Famed restauranteur, owner and founder of Giambelli 50th Ristaronte, died peacefully at his home on April 7th at the age of 90. Loving and devoted husband of more than 50 years to Mary Giambelli. Born in 1915 in Voghera, outside Milan, Italy. Francesco worked in some of the most renowned restaurants in Europe before coming to the US in 1954 to open Giambelli's Ristorante, originally located on Madison Avenue and 37th Street in Manhattan. Giambelli's 50th Ristorante opened at its present location on 50th and Madison Avenue in 1960 and has boasted many distinguished personalities, including presidents of the United States, kings, queens and other royalty, media celebrities, politicians and business executives. His proudest moment came in October, 1995, during Pope John Paul II's historic trip to New York, when he and his wife had the honor to serve the Holy Father and fifty Cardinals who were his guests at the Cardinal's residence in New York City. Francesco has been honored by his peers in the restaurant industry, including the Association of Italian Restauranteurs of New York and the Culinary Institute of America, and is the recipient of many honors as Commandatore of the Italian Republic by the President of Italy, the 2003 Angelus Awardee for St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, as well as being active as a member of the Columbus Citizen Foundation, Legion of Merit, rank of Commandatore. He has generously contributed to the Archdioces of New York, St. Patrick's Cathedral, St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, Boys Town of Italy, Culinary Institute of America, Columbus Citizens Scholarship Fund, St. Virgilius School in Broad Channel, NY, and the Jewish Communal Fund. The family will receive friends on Sunday and Monday 2-5 & 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday April 11th at 10 AM St. Patricks Cathedral, NYC. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Vincent's Hospital, Manhattan, SVCMC Foundation, 130 West 12th Street, 1-G, New York, NY 10011.
        $(6$)GIAMBELLI -- Francesco ''Frank''. The Board of Trustees of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, Sisters of Charity of New York, SVCMC Foundation, and administration and medical staff of St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan mourn the passing of our dear friend and dedicated benefactor, Francesco ''Frank'' Giambelli. His generosity greatly advanced the mission and work of St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, including the development of the Francesco and Mary Giambelli Cardiac Surgical Care Unit at the hospital. Our prayerful sympathies are extended to his devoted wife Mary. Richard J. Boyle, Chair Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Alfred E. Smith IV, Chair, Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Foundation
        $(6$)GIAMBELLI--Francesco. We are saddened at the loss of our dear friend and client, Francesco Giambelli. He was the epitomy of the American dream, coming to this country with virtually nothing, and through his hard work, with his loving wife Mary, built a renowned restaurant and shared the fruits of his labors with those less fortunate. The Partners and Employees of Weiser, LLP
        $(6$)GIAMBELLI--Frank. Beloved and devoted husband of Mary, superb and master restaurateur who gave joy to thousands, generous, our very warm friend. We will miss him greatly. Herbert and Rose L. Rubin
        $(6$)GIAMBELLI -- Frank. This world-famous restaurateur has been a close friend and client for over fifty years. His wisdom and generosity will be missed by all who knew him. Rest in peace. Our condolences to his loving and devoted wife, Mary. Sam and Eleanor Keller
      