
        ROSENFELD--Naomi E. Of New York City and Quiogue, LI, died on April 19, 2006, after a valiant fight against leukemia. Following a distinguished career in investment banking and investor relations, she immersed herself in the world of music and opera, becoming a member of the Board of the Metropolitan Opera Club and Chair of its Program Committee. She is survived by her husband Steven, her daughters Kathryn and Elizabeth, her sister Daniela Winkler Martin, and a large circle of friends, all of whom will miss her terribly. Funeral services will be held on Monday, April 24 at 11:30 a.m. at the Beth-El Chapel of Temple Emanuel, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Naomi's memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, designated to support the research of Dr. Marc Heaney, and/or City of Hope Medical Center, Duarte, CA, designated to support the work of Dr. Stephen J. Forman.
        $(6$)ROSENFELD--Naomi E. The Board of Directors, members and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Club mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow member, Naomi Rosenfeld. A member of the Opera Club since 1987, Naomi served as a Director of the Club and Chairman of the Program Committee with boundless energy and enthusiasm. Her wit, wisdom, knowledge and grace will be sorely missed and long remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to her husband Steven and her entire family. The Board of Directors Metropolitan Opera Club
        $(6$)ROSENFELD--Naomi. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member Naomi Rosenfeld our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Rabbi David M. Posner Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y
        $(6$)ROSENFELD--Naomi E. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP express profound sorrow at the death on April 19 of Naomi E. Rosenfeld, beloved wife of our friend and partner Steven B. Rosenfeld. We express our deepest sympathies to Steve, daughters Kathryn and Elizabeth, and all other members of the family.
      