
        LANGSTAFF--Elliot Kennedy, distinguished international businessman and executive recruiter, died March 11, 2006 in Adamstown, Maryland. He suffered from Parkinson's disease and lung cancer. He was 83. Kennedy Langstaff's career included work in both government service and the private sector. In his early career, he was involved in the post-Marshall Plan reconstruction of Europe, and later focused on enabling third-world countries in Asia and Africa to establish basic infrastructure. In his last two decades of professional life, Langstaff was a partner with Ward Howell International, Inc. In 1955, Langstaff joined the American Overseas Finance Company. It was acquired in 1962 by International Basic Economy Corp. (IBEC), a company founded by Nelson Rockefeller. Serving as Regional Manager and Vice President -Greece, Middle East and Africa for Arbor Acres Farm, Inc., he established the first major poultry breeding joint venture operations, introducing inexpensive protein in India, Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Lebanon for the first time. From 1972-1989, Langstaff was a partner with Ward Howell International, Inc. in New York, where he conducted executive searches for clients in agribusiness, banking, health care, manufacturing, higher education and non-profit organizations. Born in 1923 in New York, Langstaff attended Grace Church Choir School and was a professional singer by age nine as an original member of the Bretton Woods Boy Singers of New Hampshire. His modest earnings were used to help support his family during the Great Depression. He went on to attend The Choate School in Wallingford, CT on a music scholarship where he graduated in 1940. In 1947 he graduated as a member of the Harvard class of 1944, having enlisted in the United States Army where he served in the Infantry as a First Lieutenant in the Pacific Theatre in World War II. In 1949, he received his MBA from the Harvard School of Business. Kennedy Langstaff was a Trustee or Director of The American Farm School, the Overseas Education Fund, and the Harvard Alumni Association. He was President of the Environmental Council of Stamford, CT, and served as a volunteer for the International Executive Service Corps. A member of the national Advisory Committee of Revels, Inc. he helped found the New York Revels, a community-based music and performing arts organization. Langstaff served as a member of the Board of Managers of the Harvard Club, and Chairman of the Admissions Committee. The son of Bridgewater Meredith Langstaff and Esther Boardman Langstaff of Brooklyn Heights, New York. He is survived by his wife of fifty-three years, Percy Lee Langstaff, of Stamford, Connecticut; three children: David Langstaff and Lee Langstaff, both of Comus, Maryland; Maxim Langstaff of Honey Brook, Pennsylvania; and four grandchildren. His wife, Percy, worked with Margaret Mead, and served as President of the League of Women Voters of the State of Connecticut, and is currently President of the Stamford Land Conservation Trust. Kennedy Langstaff lost his brother, renowned author, concert and recording artist John Langstaff last December.
      