
        MADOFF--Roger David. 32, of Manhattan, died on April 15, 2006, from complications of a stem cell transplant for leukemia. Beloved husband of Jennifer, courageous son of Peter and Marion, devoted brother of Shana and uncle of Rebecca, inspiring son-in-law of Lois and Marty Stevens, brother-in-law of Evan and Jasmin Stevens, grandson-inlaw of Lee Stevens, and loyal companion to Milo. He will be remembered and missed by all those who knew and loved him. Services will be held Monday, 1:15 pm, April 17, 2006, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of New York, 475 Park Ave South, 8th Flr, NYC 10016.
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Life is so unfair. We are heartbroken by the devastating loss of such an extraordinary young man. We are saddened to think of all the wonderful things he surely would have accomplished. He inspired us with his courage and valiant struggle against tremendous odds. We shall hold him in our hearts forever. Our love and deepest sympathy to his adoring parents, Marion and Peter, wonderful sister Shana, loving wife Jennifer, devoted aunt and uncle Ruth and Bernie, and the entire Madoff family. Ruth and Carl Shapiro Rhonda and Michael Zinner Ellen and Robert Jaffe Linda and Daniel Waintrup
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger David. It is with heaviness in my heart that I let you go, but I will carry you with me always. You have filled my life with joy, inspiration, laughter and love. Your strength and spirit through our struggle have been a blessing to share. The love I feel for you continues to grow and I promise to carry out your plans for life as you find peace. All of the love in my heart and a big kiss from Milo. Jen
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger David. Roger, you were the most special, courageous son. You touched so many lives. We will miss your great wit, our talks about cars and sports, your contagious laugh, beautiful mind, great love and devotion, all the days of our lives. May you rest in peace. We love you. XOXO. Mom and Dad
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. The staff and volunteers of the Gift of Life Bone Marrow Foundation mourn the untimely loss of Roger Madoff and express our heartfelt sympathies to Jen, Marion and Peter, Shana and the entire Madoff family. Jay Feinberg Executive Director
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. My heartfelt sympathies to Jen, Shana, Peter and Marion. Roger's courage was inspirational. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. Jeffrey
        $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. To have known him was a privilege, to lose him a tragedy. Our hearts go out to Jen, Marion, Peter, Shana, Rebecca, and the whole Madoff family. The Goldman Families
      