
        HERTZBERG--Rabbi Arthur, Ph.D. Of Englewood, NJ. Husband of Phyllis (nee Cannon). Father of Dr. Linda Hertzberg and husband Dr. David Merzel and Susan Hertzberg and husband Stephen Brody. Brother of Rabbi Isaiah Hertzberg, Rabbi Joshua Hertzberg and Eve Rosenfeld. Grandfather of Rachel Merzel, Michael Merzel, Michelle Brody and Derek Brody. Services were held Tuesday at Temple Emanu-El of Closter. Contributions may be made to the Arthur Hertzberg Library Fund care of Temple Emanu-El of Closter, 180 Piermont Rd., Closter, NJ 07624 or your favorite charity. For information ''GuttermanMusicant'' 800-522-0588.
        $(6$)HERTZBERG -- Arthur. He brew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Arthur Hertzberg, noted university professor, historian, and distinguished spokesperson for the Jewish people. Dr. Hertzberg was an honorary alumnus of the College-Institute and in 2003 delivered the Inaugural Doctor Fritz Bamberger Memorial Lecture at HUC-JIR. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis and their family whose loss we share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. David Ellenson, President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair of the Board
        $(6$)HERTZBERG -- Arthur. Ha dassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the passing of Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg. The Jewish world was profoundly enriched by Rabbi Hertzberg's brilliant mind and by his personal example, which he exhibited as a communal leader, writer, teacher, congregational rabbi, and for 30 years as a member of the Hadassah Magazine editorial board. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rabbi Hertzberg's wife Phyllis and their family. June Walker Hadassah National President
        $(6$)HERTZBERG--Rabbi Arthur. Former President of the American Jewish Congress, whose longtime leadership exemplified a unique and singular combination of activism and scholarship. Rabbi Hertzberg's profound commitment and unbounded energy challenged us, and still does, to creatively and fearlessly seek solutions and vigorously act for the betterment of the Jewish people. Paul S. Miller, President Jack Rosen, Chairman Neil B. Goldstein, Exec. Dir. Phil Baum, Exec. Dir. Emer.
        $(6$)HERTZBERG--Arthur. The Staff and Students at the Bronfman Center for Jewish Student Life at NYU mourn the loss of one of its Founders and leaders. A truly great mind, brilliant writer and inspirational teacher. We shall miss his insight and wisdom. We express our deepest sympathy to Phyllis and his children and grandchildren. Edgar Bronfman, Chairman Naomi Levine, Co-Chairman
        $(6$)HERTZBERG--Arthur. The Board of Trustees of Leo Baeck Institute, NY, mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague Arthur Hertzberg, provocative, thoughtful, and unfailingly committed to our cause. Sincere condolences to the family. Carol Kahn Strauss Executive Director Ismar Schorsch, President
        $(6$)HERTZBERG--Arthur. Mentor to my mind, Rabbi to my soul. Who shall I argue with now? Naomi
      