
        de SHERBININ--Robert Ingvar. Died on March 31, 2006 at the UNC Hosptial, in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, after a brief illness. He was 83. Bob de Sherbinin was born on January 5, 1923, in New York City to Michael Jacques de Sherbinin Sr. and Grace (Wellwood) de Sherbinin. He attended public schools in New York and also attended the Admiral Billard Academy in Groton, CT. Bob had his college studies interrupted by World War II. He served in the Navy twice, from 1942-1943, and again from 1945-1946, as a Seaman 1st class. He returned to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine, and graduated as part of the class of 1945 with an AB in Mathematics. At Bowdoin, he was a member of the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity and continued to be very active with Bowdoin as a class agent, class secretary and pre-admissions interviewer. In 1948, after graduating from Bowdoin, Bob began his career with General Electric in the then small products division. He married Betty Jane Callan on June 24, 1950. In 1958, he joined Martindale-Hubbell, publishers of a legal law directory and worked in increasing responsible positions until his retirement as Vice President in 1988. Longtime residents of Chatham, New Jersey, Bob and his wife, Betty retired to Fearrington Village, Pittsboro, North Carolina, in 1990. Bob served as the President of the Homeowners Association in Fearrington in the early 90's. Bob's love of music was a constant theme throughout his life. He was an active member of the Glee Club at Bowdoin. During his retirement years, he enjoyed singing with the Harmony Grits and the Mini Grits, volunteer singing groups in Fearrington Village. His ready smile, wit and love of life will be sorely missed by his family and many friends. Survivors include his wife, Betty Jane (Callan), a daughter Lynne, in Indiana, and another daughter, son-in-law and grandson, Bruce, Jan and Nigel McIntosh, in Pennsylvania, a brother and sister-inlaw, Michael Jacques de Sherbinin Jr. and Jan Stephens of Amherst, MA, and a brother-in-law and sister-inlaw, James Michael and Rinda Callan, in Florida, plus many nieces and nephews. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Robert I. de Sherbinin Memorial Fund, c/o Eric Foushee, Bowdoin College, 4100 College Street, Brunswick, Maine 04011. A memorial service will be held at a future date for friends and colleagues. For information call: Crematiion Society of the Carolinas, Raleigh, NC.
      