
        NEWCOMB--William E. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Great American Insurance Company died April 15, 2006 at 99 years of age. His beloved wife of 68 years, Alice B. Newcomb and his eldest son, William K. Newcomb, preceded him in death. Mr. Newcomb is survived by his son, Richard M. Newcomb of Franktown, CO. his daughter, Sharon N. Hauff of Greenwood, VA, seven grandchildren and fourteen great grandchildren. Bill Newcomb was born in San Francisco in 1906, the year of the Great Fire and Earthquake. He had a long and distinguished career in the insurance business becoming Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of The Great American Insurance Group of Companies in 1965. His other affiliations and executive positions were as follows: Chairman and Board Trustee of the American Foreign Insurance Association (ADIA), Chairman and Board member American Institute for Property and Liability Underwriters, Chairman National Insurance Actuarial and Statistical Association, Director and member executive committee General Adjustment Bureau, Board member Underwriters Salvage Company,member insurance advisory committee Atomic Energy Commission, member Bankers Trust Advisory Committee, Director National General Corporation. Bill Newcomb was also well known in London and other important international insurance markets. He organized The Foreign Credit Insurance Association. Mr. Newcomb retired from his active insurance responsibilities in 1971. Later he moved from New Canaan, CT to Manchester, VT and much later to Colorado Springs, CO. In retirement Bill Newcomb served on the boards of the Humane Society and The Southern Vermont Art Center. Throughout his life as a self educated man he pursued a wide range of professional interests and private hobbies with focus and dedication. These included horseback riding, hunting, shooting, Ham Radio, photography, wildlife conservation, fly fishing, gardening, painting, cooking, geology and gold prospecting. A private cremation took place in Denver, CO. Friends may communicate with his family through his daughter, Sherry, Mrs. Thomas Hauff at P.O. Box 43. Ivy, VA 22945.
      