
        ISEMAN--Joseph S. Brilliant, adventurous, and kind father of Peter, Fred and Ellen, proud and beloved grandfather of Eugenie, Henry and Alex, loving former husband of Marjorie Frankenthaler Iseman and Jay Iseman, stepfather to Anne, Bill and Susan, stepgrandfather to Igor, Adriana, Lily, Julia, Amy and Ellen, devoted companion to Eleanor Munro Kahn, wonderful brother to his sister Allie, died suddenly of cardiac arrest at his home in Manhattan on April 25, 2006 just one month before his 90th birthday. A spectacular mind, a superb listener, raconteur and friend, a dedicated lawyer and educator, a community-spirited citizen and an enthusiast for life at every turn, he will forever be remembered by his family and the hundreds of friends he made around the world. Longtime partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, former President of Bennington College, a founder of U.S. public television, author and dedicated internationalist, he led an inspiring and fascinating life. Throughout his adult years, he remained dedicated to the schools from which he graduated-the Ethical Culture School in New York City, Harvard College (class of 1937) and Yale Law School (class of 1941). He was also on the board and an officer of many non-profit organizations and an active member of The Century Association. A memorial service in New York City is being planned by his children and details will be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in his memory to Seeds of Peace, Suite 401, 370 Lexington Ave, NY, NY 10017 or Channel 13, 450 W. 33rd St, NY, NY 10001.
        $(6$)ISEMAN--Joseph. The Bennington College Board of Trustees, faculty and staff deeply mourn the death of Joseph Iseman, who served as acting president of Bennington College in 1976 and as a Bennington trustee for 12 years. Joe's inspired leadership had a profound impact on the college. His longtime friendship will be sorely missed. We express our deepest sympathy to the entire Iseman family. Deborah Wadsworth, Chairman Elizabeth Coleman, President
        $(6$)ISEMAN--Joseph S. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Joseph S. Iseman. Joseph was a partner and Of Counsel in our Corporate Department and a member of the Paul Weiss family for more than 64 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his children, Ellen, Fred and Peter Iseman and his stepchildren, Anne, Susan and William Hamilton.
      