
        KOHN--Roberta (Bobbie) nee Kotcher of Miami Beach, FL died Thursday April 26, 2006. She died as she had lived, surrounded by family and friends until the end. She was a woman for all seasons. The beloved wife of Gene (deceased); loving mother of Nancy and Alan Brooks, Richard and Marlene Kohn, and Ronald and Marilyn Kohn; adored ''Grandma Bobbie'' to Bonnie and Andy Jonas, Larry and Cristina Brooks, Larry and Jami Kohn, Linda and Matthew Heller, Huey Futch, Josh Kohn, Elizabeth and Jason Prior, and Amanda Kohn; doting Great Grandma to Tyler, Ryan, Nathaniel, Jacob and Vivian. Bobbie was born in 1921 in Brooklyn to Irwin and Bertha Kotcher. She graduated Erasmus High School and New York University which is where she met the love of her life, Gene. They married in 1941 and lived first in Brooklyn and then Lawrence, Long Island. She was a founder of the Brooklyn Hebrew Home for the Aged, she started the women's division for the Albert Einstein Medical School, she was the guiding spirit behind the Head Start Program in Newark, NJ. In 1960 they moved to South Orange, NJ and began a new era in their lives. Gene was a manufacturer of children's wear and Bobbie was his designer and partner. As the business grew and moved offshore, the family moved again in 1976 to Miami. Wherever she went, Bobbie gathered people to her. She was a sister, a best friend, a mentor, a soul mate to everyone who knew her. She was extraordinary. She had the capacity to love everyone and be loved by everyone. She loved the arts and theatre and sculpted through the years. In her later years, she found love again with Seymour Rosenthal. Together, they traveled. In her last 18 months, she went to China, Alaska, and around the United States. She never missed an occasion to celebrate with her family and close friends, and she will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Funeral will be held Friday, April 28, at 3 PM, at Temple Beth Am, 5950 N. Kendall Drive. Levitt Weinstein: 305 274 0641.
        $(6$)KOHN -- Roberta (Bobbie) (Rowie). Your Kotcher Cousins will miss your boundless love of family and remember your immense zest for life. You were so special! Arline & Jules Kotcher Richmond Kotcher Ruth & Gene Steinberg Ruth Kotcher Lusia & Bernard Milch Lillian Levi Rita & David Abelson Adele Sanders and Bea Atlas
      