
        BOUCHARD--Morton S. Jr., (Retired President & CEO of Bouchard Transportation Co., Inc.) of Hobe Sound Florida passed away suddenly on Tuesday, April 11, 2006. Morton was a long-time resident of Long Island New York prior to becoming a resident of Florida in 1988. Morton graduated from LaSalle Military Academy, Oakdale, New York and went on to attend Hofstra University prior to joining the U.S. Navy. Upon completion of his naval obligations, Morton joined his father, Morton S. Bouchard Sr., and his brother Fredrick Bouchard at Bouchard Transportation Co., Inc. In 1972, Morton took the helm at Bouchard Transportation Co., Inc. and guided its growth to become the largest independently owned ocean going petroleum Barge Company in the United States. In the years 1972-1983 Morton is credited with building the largest petroleum barges to service the Northeast and Gulf Coast Petroleum infrastructure, and provide the petroleum industry with efficient and environmentally safe transportation. Morton was the past recipient of the American Legion, Robert L. Hague Post, Maritime, Man of the Year. Morton was involved in bringing the Senior/Champions tournament to Long Island and developed a unique friendship with various professional golfers and went on to build the Bouchard Family Learning and Child Center at the Chi-Chi Rodriguez School in St. Petersburg Florida. Morton, throughout his professional and retired life was always there for various underprivileged children's organizations and believed that every child deserved a chance to grow both mentally and athletically. Morton had a passion for golf and passed away on the 18th tee of his favorite club. Morton is survived by his loving and devoted wife of 52 years, Jane, and four children, Kim Bouchard, (Palm City, FL), Morton S. Bouchard III, his wife Linda (Huntington, NY), Donna Glover, her husband Rick (Dix Hills, NY) and Denise Foxen, her husband Bill (Cold Spring Harbor, NY), 13 grandchildren and one great grandchild. In lieu of flowers, the Family has asked for donations be made to The Schneider's Children Hospital, the beneficiary of the Long Island Golf Champions, in the name of Morton S. Bouchard Jr. (address: 125 Community Drive, Great Neck, NY 11021, (516) 465-2550. VISITATION IS: Friday, April 14, 2006 Young Prill Funeral Home 6801 S.E. Federal Highway Stuart, FL 34997 Phone: 772-223-9300 Time: 1:00 -3:00 PM Services in Funeral Home: 2:00 PM.
      