
        DANA--William Hibbard Died April 20 at his home in Duxbury, Massachusetts after a long illness. He was 76. Born in Albany, New York and raised in Rochester, Mr. Dana received a Bachelor of Chemical Engineering and Juris Doctor from Cornell University and an LLM from George Washington University Law School. He was a lieutenant in the Office of Naval Intelligence at the Pentagon during the Korean War. Mr. Dana began his legal career in 1957 as a patent attorney at Corning Glass Works, where he wrote numerous patents, including the patent for Pyroceram, which is a component of Corningware and many other commercial products. Known as an outstanding negotiator, he became vice president and secretary of Corning International, playing a major role in Corning's overseas operations. He also served as a member of the board of directors of several Corning international ventures. In 1974, he and his family moved to Atherton, CA. when he joined Signetics Corporation, a subsidiary of Corning later acquired by Philips Semiconductor, as Secretary and General Counsel. He became a respected figure in the Silicon Valley technology and business communities, where he was known for his legal wit and wry sense of humor. He was a founding member of the Peninsula Association of General Counsel. In 1990 he became an independent legal consultant and General Counsel for Lam Research, Corporation in Fremont, CA. Mr. Dana retired to Duxbury in 1999. A member of the California and New York Bars, Mr. Dana was a member of the American Bar Association, the American Intellectual Property Law Association and a Life Fellow of the American Bar Foundation. He was a member of the University Club in New York City, Corning Country Club, Menlo Circus Club in Atherton, and the Ex Navos in Duxbury. He was Senior Warden of St. Bede's Episcopal Church in Menlo Park, CA. and a member of St. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church in Duxbury. He was active in the Rotary Clubs of Palo Alto, CA and Duxbury and the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco. Mr. Dana leaves his wife of 45 years, Anne (Nancy) Stewart Dana, his four children, Charles Dana, of Toledo, OH, Catherine Dana Pouschine of New York, NY, Elizabeth Dana Smith of Cambridge, MA. and William H. Dana, Jr. of San Francisco, CA and nine grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, May 20, at 11 A.M. in St. John the Evangelist Church, 410 Washington St., Duxbury. Memorial donations may be made to Norwell VNA, 320 Washington Street, Norwell, MA. 02061 or to Cranberry Hospice, 36 Cordage Park Cir., Suite 326, Plymouth, Massachusetts 02360.
      