
        FRIEDMAN--Edward D. Died April 4, 2006, peacefully at his beloved home in Truro, MA, surrounded by his wife, Carol P. Green, and his loving family. Predeceased by his wife, Mary Louise, and survived by his devoted children, Michael (Judith), Daniel (Anne-Marie), Mary Eleanor Szabat (Ron), and Elizabeth Mohr, and grandchildren, Michael and Leigh Friedman, Amelia Szabat, Malcolm and Leila Mohr. Ed had a distinguished fifty year legal career in Washington, D.C., both in government service and private practice. He was a former resident and Mayor of Garret Park, MD. Funeral services private. Memorial tributes to: EDF Fellowship Fund, University of Chicago Law School, 1111 East 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637.
        $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Edward D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Edward D. Friedman, beloved husband of our devoted friend and colleague, Carol P. Green, who served on the Continuum Board of Trustees for many years and who is a member of the Beth Israel Board of Overseers. Along with her brother Lawrence Phillips and daughter Janet Green, Carol has continued her family's extraordinary, multi-generational legacy of support for Beth Israel. We join with her in mourning the passing of her dear husband who, both in the service of his country and in private law practice, distinguished himself as a resounding voice in the struggle for worker equality and civil rights. To Carol, Edward's children Michael, Daniel, Mary and Elizabeth, the Friedman and Phillips families, and all who loved him, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees Continuum Alan Mirken Chairman, Board of Overseers Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum David J. Shulkin, MD President and CEO Beth Israel
        $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Edward D. The Trustees, faculty, staff and students of the Phillips-Beth Israel School of Nursing extend our heartfelt condolences to our dear friend and beloved benefactress, Carol P. Green, a longtime member of the Trustee Committee for the School, on the passing of her husband, Edward D. Friedman. Carol has been steadfast in continuing the Phillips family's extraordinary support of our education of the nurses of tomorrow. Our thoughts and prayers are with her and her husband's family and loved ones during this difficult time. Irving D. Karpas, Jr. Chairman, Trustee Committee Janet Mackin, RN, EdD Dean Rose Muscatine Hauer, RN, MA, Dean Emerita
        $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Edward D. The physicians, nurses and staff of the Charles and Bernice Blitman Department of Radiation Oncology at Beth Israel Medical Center note with deep sadness the passing of Edward D. Friedman, dear husband of our good friend, Carol P. Green, an honorary Trustee of Beth Israel and a member of the hospital's Board of Overseers. Carol's generous support of the cancer programs at Beth Israel has been recognized with the naming of the radiation oncology treatment suite in her honor. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Carol and all of her and her husband's loved ones at this most difficult time. Louis B. Harrison, MD Chairman of Radiation Oncology
        $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Edward D. It is with a strong sense of sadness that the physicians, nurses and staff of the HymanNewman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery of Beth Israel and St. Luke'sRoosevelt acknowledge the passing of Edward D. Friedman, beloved husband of our good friend, Carol P. Green. Together with her brother Lawrence Phillips, Carol made the naming gift for our Institute, and we are continually grateful for her family's ongoing encouragement and support. During this time of mourning, we extend our deepest sympathies to Carol, her husband's family and, indeed, all of his loved ones. Alejandro Berenstein, MD Director
      