
        QUICK--Regina Clarkson. Of North Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY, died peacefully on April 3, 2006. She was the loving daughter of the late Thomas and Mary Clarkson. Beloved wife of the late Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Loving mother of Leslie C. Quick III of Bernardsville, NJ, Thomas of Palm Beach, FL, Peter of Mill Neck, NY, Christopher of Purchase, NY, Mary Pedersen of Purchase, NY, Nancy Gibson of Winchester, MA, and Patricia deVisser of Greenwich, CT and their spouses. Devoted grandmother of Christopher, Ryan, Kelsey, Maura, Mary, Elaine, Diane, Peter, Grace, Michele, Elisabeth, Courtney, Sarah, Margaret, Rosemary, Craig, Katherine, Caroline, Peer, Paige, Madeline, Samantha, Margaret, Paul Joseph and the late Raymond Crile. Dear sister of Loretta Gallo, and the late Charles, Thomas and Mae Boch. She was a Dame of Malta, and a Dame of the Holy Sepulcher. Visiting at Oyster Bay Funeral Home, 261 South St., Oyster Bay, NY 11771 Thursday from 3-5 and 7-9pm. There will be a private burial with a Memorial Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Avenue, New York, NY, on Saturday, April 8, 2006 at 9am. In lieu of flowers, donations to the LI Arthritis Foundation, 501 Walt Whitman Rd., Melville, NY 11747, or The Arthritis Foundation, 400 Hibiscus St., West Palm Beach, FL 33401, or The Intercity-Scholarship Foundation, Archdiocese of New York, 1011 First Avenue, New York, NY 10022 would be appreciated. $(6$)QUICK--Regina. The administration, trustees and staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center, in Roslyn, NY, mourn the passing of Regina (Jean) Quick, longstanding friend and benefactor of the Hospital. Mrs. Quick and her late husband, Leslie, were incomparable pillars of the St. Francis community for many years, and their extraordinary leadership and generosity helped to secure St. Francis's position as one of the leading heart centers in the nation. Jean Quick was a lifetime member of the Guild of St. Francis Hospital and Les Quick, a Founder and Chairman of the discount brokerage, Quick & Reilly, was formerly Chairman of the St. Francis Board of Trustees and leader of the Hospital's most successful capital campaign to date. Jean and Les were close to the hearts of all of the members of the St. Francis family, and their friendship and support will never be forgotten. Our deepest sympathies are extended to their son Peter, who, as a member of the Board of Trustees and Co-Chair of the current capital campaign, has carried on the family tradition of leadership at St. Francis Hospital. Our condolences are also extended to Peter's brothers and sisters and the entire Quick family.
      