
        QUICK--Regina. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Regina (Jean) Clarkson Quick. Mrs. Quick was a generous supporter of the Laboratory, together with her husband, Leslie C. Quick, Jr., during his tenure on our Board of Trustees and after his death as well. Her vision for the future of our work and her kindness and friendship will never be forgotten. To her children, grandchildren, sister and many friends, we express our deepest sympathy. Eduardo Mestre, Chairman Bruce Stillman, President James D. Watson, Chancellor W. Dillaway Ayres, Chief Operating Officer
        $(6$)QUICK--Regina Clarkson. Of North Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY, died peacefully on April 3, 2006. She was the loving daughter of the late Thomas and Mary Clarkson. Beloved wife of the late Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Loving mother of Leslie C. Quick III of Bernardsville, NJ, Thomas of Palm Beach, FL, Peter of Mill Neck, NY, Christopher of Purchase, NY, Mary Pedersen of Purchase, NY, Nancy Gibson of Winchester, MA, and Patricia deVisser of Greenwich, CT and their spouses. Devoted grandmother of Christopher, Ryan, Kelsey, Maura, Mary, Elaine, Diane, Peter, Grace, Michele, Elisabeth, Courtney, Sarah, Margaret, Rosemary, Craig, Katherine, Caroline, Peer, Paige, Madeline, Samantha, Margaret, Paul Joseph and the late Raymond Crile. Dear sister of Loretta Gallo, and the late Charles, Thomas and Mae Boch. She was a Dame of Malta, and a Dame of the Holy Sepulcher. Visiting at Oyster Bay Funeral Home, 261 South St., Oyster Bay, NY 11771 Thursday from 3-5 and 7-9pm. There will be a private burial with a Memorial Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Avenue, New York, NY, on Saturday, April 8, 2006 at 9am. In lieu of flowers, donations to the LI Arthritis Foundation, 501 Walt Whitman Rd., Melville, NY 11747, or The Arthritis Foundation, 400 Hibiscus St., West Palm Beach, FL 33401, or The Intercity-Scholarship Foundation, Archdiocese of New York, 1011 First Avenue, New York, NY 10022 would be appreciated.
        $(6$)QUICK--Regina (Jean). The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourns the passing of Regina (Jean) Quick, steadfast and loyal friend of the Foundation and generous benefactor. We extend our deepest condolences to her daughter, Patricia Quick de Visscher, member of our Leaders Council; to her son, Tom Quick, our friend and champion; and to her other devoted children and all members of her large and loving family. Her friendship and zest for life will be greatly missed. Evelyn H. Lauder Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit President Larry Norton, MD Scientific Director
        $(6$)QUICK--Regina. St. Bonaventure University mourns the passing of Regina Quick, mother of our alumnus and trustee, Leslie C. Quick, III. Through the Arts Center that bears her name, her enlightened generosity will continue to enrich the lives of university students, community members and countless school children throughout western New York. With deepest gratitude we offer our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Sr. Margaret Carney OSF President St. Bonaventure University Joseph A. LoSchiavo Executive Director Regina A. Quick Center for the Arts
        $(6$)QUICK--Regina. The Board and Administration of Catholic Health Services of Long Island note with sorrow the passing of a dedicated advocate for, and generous supporter of medical care throughout the communities we serve. We extend our sympathy to her son, Peter, who continues the commitment of significant voluntary leadership at CHSLI provided by his late father, Leslie, and to the entire Quick family. Richard J.J. Sullivan, Jr., Chairman James Harden, President
        $(6$)QUICK--Jean. Evelyn and Leonard Lauder mourn the passing of Regina ''Jean'' Clarkson Quick, a dear friend and the matriarch of a wonderful family. She will always be remembered for her good deeds, kindness and the legacy of her exceptional children and grandchildren.
      