
        WAGNER--Sima. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Sima Wagner. For sixty-six years Sima was the devoted wife of Rubin Wagner, who survives her, the loving mother of Harry and Myra, Leon and Marsha and grandmother of Elliot, Lauren, Gabriel and Daniel. Born in Vilna, now Vilnius, Lithuania, daughter of Leah and Yisroel Benosher, Sima was the devoted older sister of Fania, Sharon and Merele of whom only Fania and Sharon survived the Holocaust. Young and in love Sima and Ruby eloped in February 1940 as the world erupted into war. Their daughter, Sheyna, born in 1941, was taken from Sima during a concentration camp selection. Separated during the war and imprisoned in numerous concentration camps Sima miraculously reunited with her husband after the war living in a displaced persons camp in Heidenheim, Germany between 1945 and 1949. They landed in New York with $8 to their name, lived in Brooklyn whereupon Sima became a member of the International Ladies Garment Worker's Union in order to help support her family. She reared her family in Jewish homes in Huntington, Roslyn and Aventura, Florida and always carried herself with elegance, dignity and discipline and was widely respected and loved in the community of survivors. Throughout her life Sima Wagner gave comfort and care to her sisters, niece, nephews, and cousins living a life devoted to family, friends, charity, Holocaust Remembrance and Am Yisrael Chai. In lieu of flowers contributions in her memory may be sent to: Ella Levine, YIVO Institute, 15 West 16th Street, New York, NY 10011 In memory of Sima Wagner or Dr. Amir Baron, Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center, 20400 North East 30th Avenue, Aventura, FL 33180 In memory of Sima Wagner. The Wagner Family
        WAGNER--Sima. In loving memory of Sima Wagner, mother of Leon Wagner, member of The Simon Wiesenthal Center's New York Executive Board and with The Wagner Family Foundation, a Founder of The New York Tolerance Center. A survivor of the Holocaust, Mrs. Wagner's generosity of spirit and commitment to family and friends will be greatly missed. On behalf of The Simon Wiesenthal Center's 450,000 member families. Rabbi Marvin Hier Founder and Dean Nelson Peltz, Co-Chairman Marc Utay, Chairman New York Executive Board Rhonda Barad Eastern Director Simon Wiesenthal Center
        WAGNER--Sima. The Board of Directors and staff of American Friends of Shalva are saddened by the passing of Sima Wagner, mother of our esteemed board member Leon Wagner. Born in Vilna, Sima was a Holocaust survivor whose zest for life, kindness, thoughtfulness, and great love for her family are her enduring legacies. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Rubin and the entire Wagner family. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        WAGNER--Sima. Vilna-from the ashes of the Holocaust, Sima together with her dear husband Ruby came to America to rebuild their family. What a wonderful legacy Sima has left behind. Through the life lessons imparted by her and her dear Ruby, their family continues in the great traditions Sima taught them. Our heartfelt condolences to Ruby, Leon and Marsha, Harry and Myra, Elliott, Lauren, Gabriel, Daniel and the entire family. Hillel, Elaine & family
      