
        NUSIM - Joseph. Whose career as a leader in retailing spanned over 50 years, and a turnaround specialist for troubled companies died of complications from lymphoma at his home in Wayne, New Jersey on April 3 at the age of 72. Attending the Baruch School at night he took his first job with Robert Hall Clothes as a buyer of Women's apparel, and in 1959 moved on to become VP and General Merchandise Manager of Spartan Industries Department stores. In the early 1970's he became Executive VP of the Jamesway Corporation a major mass merchandise retailer. He left Jamesway in 1985 to become Chairman, CEO and Managing Director of Makro, a division of Dutch giant SHV when SHV expanded its European operations to the US, bringing one of the first warehouse clubs to these shores. After overseeing the acquisition of Makro by K Mart in 1990, Nusim took on the challenge of turning around the troubled Channel Home Centers as President and CEO. When Channel was acquired by Rickel Home Centers in 1996 he bcame Chairman and Pre sident until 1998. Most recently he was Co-Chairman of the Board of Loehmanns. In 1998 Nusim started the Nusim Consulting Group. An expert in turn-around issues facing retailers he was a frequent advisor and speaker on the subject. He served on the Board of Directors of Frank's Nursery, Scotty's Home Centers, Frankel's Home Furnishings, Herman's Sporting Goods, Woodworkers Warehouse, Lions Brand, and Kimco Realty Corporation. He served on the Advisory Board of Wells Fargo Bank Retail Division and DJM As1as a consultant to GE Capitol and the Blackstone Group. A founder of the International Mass Retail Association (IMRA) he was on the Board and was a frequent speaker on retailing and turnaround issues. Nusim is survived by his second wife Rosemary, his son, Steven Nusim of Montclair, NJ a daughter Zina Numim of East Brunswick, NHJ a stepdaughter Kim Wood, three grandchildren and a brother Stanley Nusim and a sister Roberta Nusim, both of New York City. Contributions can be made to the Joseph Nusim Fund for Mantle Cell Lymphoma, 20 Stoney Ridge Lane, Riverside, CT. 06878
      