
        LERNER--Jack Newton, Esq. Passed away on April 27, 2006 at age 90 from prostate cancer at his home with his beloved family at his side. Loving husband of 62 years of Evelyn; devoted father of Iris and Richard (Ana); proud grandfather of Jennifer and Adam. Born in Russia and emigrated to America with his parents at age five. Raised in Williamsburg, Brooklyn where his father, an ordained Rabbi in Russia, operated ''Shomer Shabbus'' grocery stores. Graduated from Boys High School and received undergraduate and law degrees from NYU. Admitted to the Bar in 1938, he engaged in general practice until 1944. From 1944 to 1947, he was in charge of litigation in the Rent Enforcement Division of the New York District Office of Price Administration (OPA). Thereafter he specialized in administrative proceedings before the various rent control agencies and landlord/tenant litigation in the courts. He was an active and respected member of the New York County Lawyers' Association (NYCLA) for more than 50 years, serving as a member of its Council. He served as Chair of the Committee on the Civil Court and was a longtime member of the Committee on the Supreme Court. He was a Continuing Legal Education (CLE) faculty member for more than two decades, lecturing on the Landlord/Tenant segment of the General Practice for the Newly Admitted Attorney course given annually, which is now named The Jack Newton Lerner Lecture on Landlord/TenantPractice and the course on Landlord/Tenant Litigation given bi-annually, which is now named The Jack Newton Lerner Lecture on Landlord/ Tenant Litigation. He was recognized as the ''dean'' of Landlord/Tenant Practice by its program chairs. In addition to establishing the Lerner programs, NYCLA established a Jack Newton Lerner Award for excellence as a NYCLA CLE Lecturer. He was the first recipient of said award. He was a supporter of prostate cancer research at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center where he established the Evelyn and Jack Newton Lerner Fund for Physical Rehabilitation, and the NYU Cardiac & Vascular Institute. He had a lifelong fascination with baseball going directly from Ellis Island to Ebbets Field. He also had a passion for theatre, travel and fine restaurants. Services to be held at The East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue, 308 East 55th Street, NYC at 1 P.M. on Sunday, April 30, 2006.
        $(6$)LERNER--Jack Newton. Jack Newton Lerner, beloved husband of Evelyn and devoted father of Richard and Iris. An alumnis of New York University Law school, he specialized in real estate law and was active in the New York County Lawyers Association which holds the annual ''Jack Newton Lerner Lecture Series.'' A loyal friend of long standing who always gave his best effort. Mia and Sheldon Solow
        $(6$)LERNER--Jack Newton. The New York County Lawyers' Association mourns the loss of Jack Newton Lerner, distinguished lawyer and member for 51 years, in whose name an annual lecture on Landlord/Tenant Practice is presented. Norman L. Reimer, President
        $(6$)LERNER--Jack Newton.In loving remembrance of our Grandpa. Jennifer & Adam Lapidus
      