
        ST. JOHN--Seymour. The Rev. Seymour St. John, 94, Headmaster of The Choate School (now Choate Rosemary Hall) from 1947 to 1973, died Monday (April 17, 2006) in Hobe Sound, FL. His father, George C. St. John, was Choate's Headmaster, and he grew up on campus. After graduating cum laude from Choate in 1931, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Yale in 1935 and returned to Choate to teach French. He was ordained an Episcopal minister in 1942. During World War II, he served in the Navy. After the war, he earned a Master's degree from Columbia and succeeded his father as Choate Headmaster. In 1962, he was elected president of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. He was instrumental in moving the girls school, Rosemary Hall, from Greenwich, CT., back to Wallingford, where it had been founded. His first wife, Margaret Spencer St. John, predeceased him. He is survived by his wife, Marie ''Mazie'' St. John; a son, Gordon W. St. John of Livonia, MI; a daughter, Margaret St. John of Tucson, AZ; and five grandchildren: Mrs. Michael Sutton of San Diego, CA; Mr. Gordon W.S. St. John of Stratford, PA; Mrs. Christopher Amorello of Concord, MA; Mr. Koren Eloul and Ms. Liyam Eloul of Tucson, AZ, and nine great - grandchildren. Choate Rosemary Hall will have an on-campus memorial service Saturday, May 20, at 11:00 A.M. In addition there will be a memorial service at Weekapaug Chapel in Weekapaug, RI, Saturday, June 24, at 11 A.M. A memorial celebration and thanksgiving service will be held at Christ Memorial Chapel in Jupiter Island, FL, Saturday, November 25, at 4:00 P.M. Donations in his memory may be made to the Seymour St. John Memorial Chapel Fund, c/o the Choate Rosemary Hall Development Office, 333 Christian Street, Wallingford, CT 06492.
        $(6$)ST. JOHN--Seymour. The Trustees, administration, faculty, staff, alumni, parents, students, and friends of Choate Rosemary Hall mourn the passing of Headmaster Emeritus Seymour St. John. He led the school with grace, perseverance, and good humor from 1947 to 1973, and since his retirement was a much valued friend and advisor. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his family and to all whose lives were touched by his.
      