
        NELSON--Howard. We have lost one of our dearest friends. His wise counsel has helped to guide us and our whole family throughout the years. We will miss him dearly. All our love to Renee and all the children, grandchildren and their spouses. Bonnie & Bernie Hodes and family Wendy & Stuart Alper Vicki and Sam Katz Yaffa and Jeff Hodes $(6$)NELSON--Howard, 88. Died on his birthday, April 2, 2006, in Greenwich, CT. A proud graduate of James Madison High School in Brooklyn, he went on to become student body president of the City College of New York in 1939, and later served as a captain in the US Army during World War II. He was a partner in the tax consultancy firm of Nathan Berkman and Co. for over fifty years, and founded Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company, a family-owned business, in 1964. Among his many philanthropic pursuits, he was co-founder and first treasurer of the Muscular Dystrophy Association and a long time supporter of the Salk Institute. He was a member of Old Oaks Country Club in Purchase, New York, and of the Harmonie Club in Manhattan. He is survived by his beloved wife of 61 years, Renee; two devoted sons, Michael and Steven; four adoring grandchildren, Amanda, Joshua, Eric, and Adam; and a greatgrandson, Lucas. Funeral services Tuesday, 11:45 A.M., at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, New York City. Donations may be made to the Salk Institute, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA 92037; or to the Lymphoma Research Foundation, 111 Broadway, 19th Fl., NY, NY 10006. $(6$)NELSON--Howard. Passed away on April 2, 2006. The Nathan Berkman & Co. Inc. family mourns the loss of our inspirational leader who has been the company's driving force for over fifty-eight years. He touched the lives of many and will be greatly missed by all. Our heartfelt condolences to: Renee, Michael, Steven and the entire Nelson family. $(6$)NELSON--Howard. All of us at Newmark Knight Frank are saddened by the passing of Howard Nelson. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife and sons Michael and Steven, and to all of his beloved family members. We feel blessed to have known such a charming man. the Partners at Newmark Knight Frank $(6$)NELSON--Howard. We feel blessed to have known this honorAble man. His passion for life, family and friends will be missed by all. Our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, to Michael, to Steven and to the entire Nelson family. Paul Davidson Roy Lapidus Michael Moorin $(6$)NELSON--Howard. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Howard Nelson. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Renee, son, Steven and the entire family. Allen J. Ross President $(6$)NELSON--Howard. Beloved friend who loved life and lived it to the fullest. He was remarkably caring and had a special indomitable spirit that inspired everyone who knew him. We will deeply miss him and always remember the joy he brought to our lives. Marci & Herb $(6$)NELSON--Howard. Howard was a giant of a man. Friendship, warmth, integrity was his currency. We are proud to have been a friend of this remarkable man who we loved and will miss deeply. Harriet & Harvey $(6$)NELSON--Howard. Howard, dear friend, we were always together. It was the best of times and the most fun with you and Renee. You will remain together with us lovingly in our hearts. Connie and Joe $(6$)NELSON--Howard. A unique man. We loved him very much. We will miss him very much. Iris and Bernard $(6$)NELSON -- Howard. We've shared many years of treasured memories. Our hearts are with Renee and family. Marty and Selma Rosen $(6$)NELSON--Howard. So warm, so smart, so caring. A friend who will truly be missed. Dolores Salzman $(6$)NELSON--Howard. You gave so much and we loved you so much. Helen and Joel
      