
        SCHEAR--Stanley. 77. Died peacefully at home at the Schear farmhouse in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on Saturday, April 8, of esophageal cancer. Since 2001, Stanley dedicated himself to the low-income elderly residents of Westchester County as the Director of the LIFE Program (Living Independently for the Frail Elderly) of Family Service of Westchester. For the preceding decade, Stanley directed the Bridge Fund of Westchester, a program that prevents homelessness by making it possible for at-risk individuals and families to stay in their homes and apartments. Before becoming a full time advocate for affordable housing, Stanley was renowned for twenty-five years as the owner and operator of Jespersen's Pastry Shop in Scarsdale Village, where his famed chocolate pastry, named for Sarah Bernhardt, brought joy to countless fans. Stanley was also well known as a community activist who believed that all people deserve the dignity of a roof over thier heads, regardless of their race, income, age, or mental health status. An avid defender of the U.S. Bill of Rights, Stanley served on the boards of the Westchester County and New York State Civil Liberties Unions, as well as the Paul Robeson Foundation. Stanley founded and organized the annual Bill of Rights Day Celebration for high school students, which takes place at St. Paul's Church in Mt. Vernon, the site of the trial of Peter Zenger, which established freedom of the press. Stanley is survived by by Doris Schear, his loving wife and life partner of 58 years, his daughter Rose Anne and sons Stuart and Mitchell, and their families. Stanley leaves behind many friends, admiring colleagues, and fellow activists who believe in the full promise of the American dream for all. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made in Stanley's honor to the Sunshine Fund of Famliy Service of Westchester, which meets critical needs of the low-income frail elderly, so they may live with dignity. Donations to the Sunshine Fund may be sent c/o FSW, One Gateway Plaza, Port Chester, NY 10573. Burial will be private, and a public memorial Service will take place at the Westchester Society for Ethical Culture on Saturday, April 29, at 1 PM. For more information, please write sschear@nyc.rr.com. The family will be receiving guests on Monday, April 10, and Tuesday, April 11, starting at 5 PM, and on Sunday, April 16, starting at 2 PM, at 230 South State Road in Briarcliff Manor, NY.
      