
        DAVIS--Darwin. We are extremely saddened by Darwin's passing and extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Darwin was a distinguished colleague, a cherished friend to many and an important presence in the insurance industry who clearly led by example. Among his many significant achievements, he joined the prestigious Million Dollar Roundtable, symbolic of success marketing life insurance products, after only two years in the business, and rose to become the first African American senior-level executive at The Equitable, in 1974, as VP in charge of field development. He was later appointed head of marketing for Agency Operations and named to head the Office of External Affairs in 1983. He became Senior Vice President in 1987. Among his many responsibilities in that role, Darwin led The Equitable's Agency Community Relations activities and worked to strengthen the company's relationships with multicultural communities. In 2005, Darwin was featured in a Fortune Magazine cover story, ''The Bravest Generation -the inspiring stories of six black pioneers who broke corporate America's color barrier in the '50s and '60s.'' In February 1988, Black Enterprise Magazine named Darwin one of America's 25 most important and powerful Black executives. He gave of himself so generously to a wide range of civic and community affairs; he received the Lifetime Achievement Awards of the Executive Leadership Council, Jackie Robinson Foundation and the Black Leadership Commission on AIDS and was honored numerous times for his work in the multicultural community. In addition, he served as president of the Jesse Owens Foundation, as a member of the Pepsico Corporate Advisory Board and the Boards of Directors of Carnegie-Mellon University and the Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science; founded 100 Black Men of Connecticut, and was a lifetime member of the NAACP, Alpha Phi Alpha and the Boule of Sigma Pi Phi Fraternities, among many other activities. We are extremely proud of all that he accomplished and will miss him greatly. AXA Equitable
      