
        ALBERTS--William W. Age 81, died at his home in Lake Forest Park, Washington, the afternoon of March 28th after a long illness. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he graduated from public high school. He was an infantryman in the U.S. Army during World War II and a combat veteran of the Battle of the Ruhr and other action in the European Theater of Operations. Dr Alberts took his Bachelor's, Master's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Chicago, where he studied under Milton Friedman, Abba Lerner and Frank Knight. He taught Business Economics and Finance at the University of Washington Graduate School of Business from 1967 to 1995. He was known for his rigorous academic standards and his excellence in teaching. In 1978, Dr. Alberts co-founded Marakon Associates, the international management consulting firm described by ''The Economist'' as ''a consultancy that has advised some of the world's most consistently successful companies.'' Marakon now has offices in New York, London, Singapore, Chicago and San Francisco. Dr. Alberts was a driving force in developing the firm's strategy and organizational practice and training the consulting staff. He worked parttime for Marakon while he was on the University of Washington faculty, and fulltime after he retired from teaching, remaining active in the firm until his death. An associate remembers Dr. ''Bill'' (as he was affectionately known) as a ''teacher and colleague who enabled people to achieve a level of excellence far above what they thought themselves capable of achieving.'' Another recalls ''He was a person who always left you better than you were.'' He will be sadly and deeply missed by Patricia, his wife of 54 years, his daughters, Mary Allender of Portland, Oregon, Susan Alberts of Durham, North Carolina, five grandchildren, and his many friends, co-workers and associates. A celebration of his life will be held April 19th in Manhattan. Interment will be at Doddridge Chapel Cemetery, Chapel Road, Wayne County, Indiana, after a service at Mills Funeral Home in Centerville, Indiana, Saturday, April 22, at 11 AM. A memorial service will be held in Seattle on May 1st, at 4:15 PM, in the Peterson Room of the Allen Library at University of Washington. In lieu of flowers please donate to Retired Bolivian Ministers, 6401 The Paseo, Kansas City, Missouri 64131, in memory of Dr. Bill Alberts. Please call 919-401-4411.
      