
        KERNBERG--Paulina., M.D. Of Scarsdale, NY, died April 12, 2006 at age 71. Born January 10, 1935 in Santiago, Chile to Isaac and Rebecca (Ostray) Fischer. Dr. Kernberg was an eminent child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. She was a Professor of Psychiatry at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University and served as the former Director of Child and Adolescent Training at New York Hospital - Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. Dr. Kernberg was Supervising and Training Psychoanlyst at the Columbia Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research. Based on her numerous professional accomplishments, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services selected Dr. Kernberg to serve as a key consultant on the Elian Gonzalez case. Survived by her husband, Dr. Otto Kernberg, children, Dr. Martin Kernberg (Karrie), Dr. Karen Bardenstein (David) and Adine Varah (Sean), six grandchildren, Annessa, Ian, Daniel, Sarina, Sonia, and James; siblings Leon Fischer (Sylvia), Abraham Fischer, Tomas Fischer (Evelyn), Violetta Berdichevsky (Manuel), and the late Mauricio Fischer (Raquel). Funeral service today, Friday at 10:00 A.M. at Bet Am Shalom Synagogue in White Plains, followed by internment at Sharon Gardens Cemetery. In lieu of flowers please send donations to Camp Koby or Personality Disorders Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College, for the study of personality disorders in adolescents.
        $(6$)KERNBERG -- Paulina F., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague. Dr. Paulina Kernberg has made invaluable contributions as a teacher, researcher and administrator in child psychiatry and psychoanalysis. She has served as Residency Director at NYH/Cornell-Westchester Division since 1978 and a Training and Supervising Analyst at the Analytic Center. She was a beloved teacher and colleague, deeply devoted and dedicated to the treatment of children and an invaluable member of the psychoanalytic and psychiatric communities. She will be posthumously receiving the APMs George Daniels Award on May 2, 2006. We send our condolences to her husband, Otto, and children Martin, Karen and Adine. Robert A. Glick, M.D. Director Lila J. Kalinich, M.D. President, APM
      