
        POLITI -- Achilio Francesco ''Francis,'' 95, of Roxbury, VT, died Monday, May 8, 2006, at the Mayo Healthcare in Northfield, VT. He was born in Northfield on March 17, 1911, the son of Emilio and Maria (Ambrosini) Politi. He attended Northfield schools, as well as Eastman College in Poughkeepsie, NY, and Columbia. Mr. Politi had started a monument business in Poughkeepsie. At the outbreak of WWII, he set aside his business to support the war effort and traveled to Washington, DC, where he accepted a position in the New Deal Office of Price Stabilization, becoming one of the first government employees to work on the War Productions Board. He later worked in the State Department where he served on the Board of Economic Warfare. He traveled to neutral countries, such as Argentina and Brazil, where he bought up vast stores of commodities like leather, sugar and beef, and sent them to Russia, effectively channeling them away from the Axis powers. Later, when the United States was desperate for elemental silver for the manufacture of electronics, he traveled to Mexico, bought up pesos, and sent railraod cars full of silver coins back across the border, which nearly caused the Mexican economy to collapse for lack of hard currency. After the war Mr. Politi was a top executive at Carborundum International, where he personally established manufacturing operations in more than a dozen cities worldwide. He was able to conduct business in English, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and French. His industrial negotiations took him to Latin America, Europe and the Middle East. Operating from Geneva, he entertained many of the world's richest leaders, closing enormous financial deals with a handshake. His resume later included CEO positions at three international corporations. Before retiring to Roxbury, VT, he maintained residences in Switzerland, Peekskill, NYC, Ft. Lauderdale, as well as Roxbury. In the mid 1980's Mr. Politi's longtime informal association with Norwich University became formalized when he helped establish the Brigadier General Elizabeth P. Hoisington Award, presented annually to the top senior female cadet. Elected to the Norwich University Board of Fellows in 1987, he served on the Peace Corps committee, and in 1996 the University awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Business Administration Degree. In 2004 Mr. Politi established the Politi International Fund, a resource aimed at offering Norwich students an international educational experience. Mr. Politi was also a significant supporter of the Edmundite Fathers and St. Michael's College in Colchester, VT. He enjoyed hosting the annual bocce ball tournament and barbeque for his community friends, Peekskill friends, as well as his friends from St. Michael's and Norwich. Despite his global business experience and entrepreneurial success, he always considered his true ''home'' to be Vermont. Mr. Politi is survived by a nephew, Domenic R. Politi of Stowe, VT, and a cousin, Elvira Lockwood of Peekskill. He was predeceased by his brothers, Domenic and Ugo Politi. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated at St. John the Evangelist Church in Northfield, VT, at a later date. Donations may be made in his memory to the Norwich University General Fund, 1 Winooski Park, Colchester, VT 05439. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Wednesday, May 17, at 10 AM, at the Church of the Assumption, Peekskill, NY. Interment to follow at Hillside Cemetery, Cortlandt Manor, NY. Visiting at the DorseyCarlone Funeral Home, Peekskill, on Tuesday, 4-8 pm
      