
        ENLANDER - Caron. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of a distinguished member of the Presidium of the Yeshiva University Women's Organization, which honored her recently at its Opera Gala. She was internationally respected as a major leader in the diamond industry, and a role model for women in the business world. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her beloved and devoted husband, Derek Enlander, MD, a Board member of YU's Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration, and, with his wife, a Guardian of YU; to her beloved mother, Valerie Weiss, and to her cherished brother, Jeffrey (and Robyn) Weiss. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        $(6$)ENLANDER--Caron. With enormous grief, sadness and pain, I remember Caron for her courage, dignity, and the magic she brought to my life. It was as if she sprinkled wonderous twinkle dust wherever she went and on everyone whom she met. The loss is irreplaceable, but my memories of her everlasting. Ivan Fisher
        $(6$)ENLANDER -- Caron. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
        $(6$)ENLANDER--Caron. Heartfelt sympathy to Derek and entire family on the untimely passing of our esteemed board member. Women's Club Fifth Avenue Synagogue Anne Hiltzik, Chairman Mona Gelbart and Maidy Jeger, Presidium
        $(6$)ENLANDER--Caron. A beautiful and devoted friend who touched the lives of and will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Heartfelt condolences to Derek and the entire family. Andrew and Aviva Feinman
        $(6$)ENLANDER--Caron. A great friend and a beautiful woman. We will miss you. Our heartfelt condolences to Derek and the family. Cheryl and Albert Lefkovits
        $(6$)ENLANDER--Caron. A pure soul who enriched my life. I will never forget you. Sharyn
      