
        BITENSKY--Samson. Died on May 17, 2006 in the late afternoon at the age of 86. He is survived by his love, best friend and wife of 56 years, Halina. He was the devoted father of Beth and Steven Myers of Kings Point & Susan and Peter Lerner of Sands Point and the adoring grandfather of Jessica, Allison and Benjamin. A visionary in the world of American textile manufacturing, a philanthropist and a wonderful person who touched people from all walks of life, he always strove to make the world a much better place. A brilliant and incisive thinker to the end. Funeral services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Pl, Great Neck, NY on Sunday, May 21 at 12 P.M.
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a very dear friend, a world renowned business leader, and visionary who served with distinction on the university's Board of Trustees, Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Board of Governors as founding chairman and chairman emeritus, and Sy Syms School of Business Board of Directors as founding vice chairman. A Founder of Albert Einstein College of Medicine, he and his wife are university Benefactors who dedicated the Samson and Halina Bitensky Chair in Economics at Yeshiva College as well as leading in the refurbishing of new facilities at Ferkauf. In 1988, the university awarded him an honorary degree. A widely respected leader in textiles, he was instrumental in forging a bond between YU and that industry. Most recently he played a major role in the ''Perfect Fit'' exhibit of the YU Museum. We extend heartfelt condolences to Halina, children Beth (and Steven) Myers and Susan (and Peter) Lerner, grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board of Trustees of Continuum Health Partners join with the medical staff and administration of Beth Israel Medical Center in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, Samson Bitensky. In the 30 years that Samson served on the Beth Israel Board, he was a devoted supporter of many of the hospital's programs including cardiology, cancer, integrative medicine and ethics conferences. He also served with great distinction as Chair of the Finance Committee of the Board for many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Halina, and their family and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum David J. Shulkin, MD President and CEO Beth Israel
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. We mourn the loss our our founder, friend and mentor, Samson Bitensky, former President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Fab Industries, Inc. Your total dedication to excellence, to our well being, your leadership and brilliance, were an inspiration to all who had the privilege of being members of your Fab family. Each day with you was a special gift that we will always cherish and now sorely miss. The Employees of Fab Industries Corp Steven Myers, President
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. Yeshiva University Museum mourns the passing of a visionary leader in the textile industry, who, with his wife Halina, served as Lead Sponsor for our recent exhibition. May his memory always be a blessing. We extend our condolences to the entire family. Erica Jesselson, Board Chair Sylvia A. Herskowitz Museum Director
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member Samson and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Halina and the entire family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. We will miss you greatly. You were not only a dear relative, but a valued friend. Your love of life, love of people and love for your family were unparalleled. As recipients of that love and warmth, we will truly feel the void. Sandy and Frank Ettus
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. We deeply mourn the passing of a dear family friend and business associate. We will always fondly remember and cherish Samson's special relationship with our parents. Our heartfelt condolences to hii family. Lee and Jeffrey Feil
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. Grandpa, we will miss your smile, your warmth, and your laughter. You have always been our role model and source of encouragement. We love and miss you very much. Jessica, Allison, and Benjamin
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. My dearest friend for almost 60 years. His knowledge and wisdom were indeed a rare treasure. Thank you, Samson, for all those years. Betta and Jerry Clair
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. We note with sorrow the passing of our dear friend and business associate. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Debra and Martin Bernstein
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. Your wise counsel, genuine interest, and care for our wellbeing will never be forgotten. We love you dearly. Wendy and Stanley Sloan
      