
        FLOWERREE--Robert E., a long time resident of Oregon and a retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia-Pacific Corporation, died of leukemia on May 1, 2006 in Portland, Oregon at age 85. He served as a Director of Chase Manhattan Bank, Georgia-Pacific Corporation, Georgia Gulf Corporation, Jeanerette Lumber & Shingle Co., and Chairman of the Board of Kilgore Corporation. He also served on the Board of Administrators of Tulane University in New Orleans, receiving the Tulane University Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1978, and was a Life Trustee of Lewis & Clark College. He was elected to the Paper Industry International Hall of Fame in 2001. Other past services include Director of the American Paper Institute, member of the Business Round Table, member of the Board of Governors of the National Council of the Paper Industry for Air & Stream Improvement, Inc., and a member of the Board of Visitors of Berry College in Mount Berry, Georgia. Mr. Flowerree was born in New Orleans, Louisiana January 4, 1921 and graduated from New Orleans Academy in 1938 and Tulane University in 1942. He served as a Navy Lieutenant during World War II, where he commanded his own vessel and saw action in the Southwest Theater with the 7th Fleet, and was awarded seven Battle Stars. He came to the West Coast from New Orleans in 1946, starting his business career with C.D. Johnson Lumber Co. in Toledo, Oregon where he was General Manager in 1951 when it was purchased by the Georgia-Pacific Corporation. Four years later he was promoted to Vice President of Western Lumber and Plywood and moved from Toledo to Portland. In 1960 he was elected a director of Georgia-Pacific and President of their paper subsidiary. In 1962 Mr. Flowerree became President of Pulp and Paper and was named Executive Vice President of Pulp, Paper and Chemicals in 1963. In 1975 he was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the company, and from there to Chairman and CEO in November 1976, retiring in January, 1984. He was a member of the Arlington Club, Waverley Country Club, Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, The Links in New York and the Boston Club in New Orleans. Survivors include Mr. Flowerree's wife Elaine, a daughter Ann Flowerree of London, England, and Arlington, Virginia, two sons, John H. of Sunriver, Oregon, and David R. of Atlanta, Georgia; a sister Ellen Woods of La Jolla, California; six grandchildren of whom 2 live in Santiago, Chile and two great grandchildren. A third son, Robert, died in 1985.
      