
        BITENSKY--Samson. My beloved Samson, my husband of 56 years. Guided by your wisdom, we embarked on a journey filled with accomplishments, success, and love. Not only were you my partner, but my best friend. I will always be your beautiful wife, and you will always be my handsome husband. You will always be in my heart, Halina
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board of Trustees of Continuum Health Partners join with the medical staff and administration of Beth Israel Medical Center in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, Samson Bitensky. In the 30 years that Samson served on the Beth Israel Board, he was a devoted supporter of many of the hospital's programs including cardiology, cancer, integrative medicine and ethics conferences. He also served with great distinction as Chair of the Finance Committee of the Board for many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Halina, and their family and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum David J. Shulkin, MD President and CEO Beth Israel
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with sadness the passing of Samson Bitensky, an esteemed business leader and treasured friend. Samson, together with his beloved wife Halina, shared a deep commitment to humanitarian causes, enriching millions of lives through their generosity and dedication. That benevolence was also expressed through Samson's profound devotion to the Long Island Jewish community, where he served with distinction. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Halina; to their children: Beth, and her husband, Steven Myers; Susan, and her husband, Peter Lerner; to their grandchildren, and to their entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board, Associate Board, League, Administration and Staff of Parker Jewish Institute mourn the passing of Trustee Samson Bitensky. A renowned business leader and philanthropist, Samson Bitensky will always be remembered as an individual dedicated to improving the quality of later life. We offer our heartfelt condolences to wife, Halina, and the entire Bitensky family. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman of the Board Michael N. Rosenblut, President & CEO
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. Dear friend, gentleman, golfing companion. We will miss him. Our condolences to his wife, Halina, daughters Beth and Susan and their families. Cynthia and Bernie Mollod
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. We remember a good friend over many years and mourn his passing. Richard Netter, President Thanks To Scandinavia
      