
        MORRISSEY--Thomas Leo. Thomas Leo Morrissey, 90, of Deal, New Jersey, former partner in the Newark law firm of Carpenter, Bennett and Morrissey (now McElroy, Deutsch, Mulvaney, & Carpenter), died Wednesday, May 17, 2006 at his home. Born in Weehawken he was a graduate of Rutgers College and Fordham Law School. He started his legal career as a law assistant to the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, District Attorney, New York County. In 1952 he joined the firm of Carpenter, Bennett and Morrissey where he practiced for five decades. He was a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers and in 1980 was given the Trial Bar Award of the Trial Attorneys of New Jersey. In 2003 he received the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Essex County Bar Association. During World War II he served as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy aboard the aircraft carriers Enterprise and Hornet as Combat Intelligence Officer to Fighting Squadron 2 in the Pacific. During the Korean War he served as Lieutenant Commander, Combat Intelligence, on the carrier Essex. He leaves a devoted family: his wife Eleanor, his children, Michael and his wife Gretchen, Eileen and her husband Alexander Pouch, Steven and his wife Susan, and two stepsons, Samuel Felder and his wife Arietta Slade, and Leon Felder. His dearly loved grandchildren are Timothy and Evan Pouch, Catherine and Thomas Morrissey, and Daniel Felder. Grieving the loss of their brother are Catherine Jonic of Sandwich, Massachusetts, Ellenora McDonough of Toms River, New Jersey, and John Morrissey of Martinsville, New Jersey. His wife Doris Pier Morrissey, mother of his three children, predeceasedhim. Visitation will be held in the Buckley Funeral Home 509 Second Ave., Asbury Park, NJ on Sunday 3-6 P.M. A mass of Christian burial will be celebrated on Monday at 10 A.M. in St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Deal, NJ. Interment will be at Holy Cross Cemetery, Basking Ridge, NJ. In lieu of flowers please make donations to a charity of your choice in his name.
      