
        BITENSKY--Samson. Died on May 17, 2006 in the late afternoon at the age of 86. He is survived by his love, best friend and wife of 56 years, Halina. He was the devoted father of Beth and Steven Myers of Kings Point & Susan and Peter Lerner of Sands Point and the adoring grandfather of Jessica, Allison and Benjamin. A visionary in the world of American textile manufacturing, a philanthropist and a wonderful person who touched people from all walks of life, he always strove to make the world a much better place. A brilliant and incisive thinker to the end. Funeral services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Pl, Great Neck, NY on Sunday, May 21 at 12 P.M.
        $(6$)BITENSKY--Samson. We mourn the loss our our founder, friend and mentor, Samson Bitensky, former President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Fab Industries, Inc. Your total dedication to excellence, to our well being, your leadership and brilliance, were an inspiration to all who had the privilege of being members of your Fab family. Each day with you was a special gift that we will always cherish and now sorely miss. The Employees of Fab Industries Corp Steven Myers, President
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board of Directors of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research and staff mourn the passing of our longtime Trustee, friend and distinguished colleague, whose commitment to preserving Yidishkeyt was unparalleled. He will be sorely missed. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Halina and the entire family. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Carl J. Rheins, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Samson Bitensky. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Halina, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        $(6$)BITENSKY -- Samson. Intel ligent, learned, philanthropic, a giant amongst his peers. We join Halina and all the family in mourning the passing of Samson and offer our sincerest condolences. Muriel & Howard Weingrow
      