
        SEHAM -- Martin Charles. Martin Charles Seham, a labor attorney who gracefully bridged the chasm between unions and managment, died April 1at Englewood Hospital, Englewood, New Jersey at 73, after a 21-year battle with Parkinson's disease. His death was announced by his son and law partner, Lee Seham. Seham's concern for the ordinary worker began when he was a Midwood High School student in Brooklyn. He organized a student rally to support the teachers' job action for better wages, picketing Foley Square, the seat of City government. Soon, the students were surrounded by mounted policemen, who herded them into traffic. Seham led his schoolmates in a spirited rendition of The Star Spangled Banner, and the police backed off. Seham's musical career continued at Midwood, where he was among the early writers and performers in the nowfamous ''Sing.'' A Brooklyn boy of modest means, Seham worked his way through Amherst College by operating a drycleaning business and selling compulsory beanies to successive freshman classes. He had passed up scholarships from other colleges, determined to attend Amherst and fully experience its alien gentile world. He found it both stimulating and accepting. In 1954, he graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, having served as his fraternity's first Jewish president. At Harvard Law School, he became an editor of the Harvard Law Review. In the contentious field of airline labor relations, Seham obtained the confidence of both management and labor. His practice included representation of many foreign airlines and several independent labor unions. He served for decades as General Counsel to both the Allied Pilots Association (1963-92) and the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (1964-2002). His firm-Seham, Seham, Meltz and Petersen-has also represented unions of pilots and flight attendants. Seham was well known in the maritime industry as General Counsel to the American Maritime Association, a multi-employer bargaining association. A recognised advocate in the fields of utilities and Manhattan real estate, he was General Counsel to the Owners' Committee on Electric Rates and to the Midtown Realty Owners' Association. Seham felt a special pride in his representation of labor union clients, particularly the pilots and aircraft mechanics. He repeatedly waived fees amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars because of his conviction that the fledgling organizations stood for something important. He believed in the American legal system, and wanted to make sure that his union clients had their day in court, too. Seham's public service included a three-year term as Chairman of the New York City Public Utility Board; membership on the Board of the Bergen County (NJ) Urban League; and management of Hubert Humphrey's presidential campaign in northern New Jersey. Martin Seham is survived by his wife, Phoebe Williams Seham, children, Amy, Jenny, Lee, and Lucy, six grandchildren, and his sister, Bernice Lifshitz.
      