
        EVARTS--Katharine Avery of Kent, CT died peacefully on April 19, 2006, at the age of 107. She was born in Westbury, Long Island on October 29, 1898. As a child, Mrs. Evarts lived with her family at ''Wheatly.'' Summers were spent in Newport, where she became an accomplished sailor, inspired by her father, Edwin D. Morgan, who had defended the America's Cup with the sloop Columbia in 1901. She lived in Windsor, Vermont, during her marriage to Jeremiah Maxwell Evarts, where she managed the Evarts family farm. She and her five children moved to New York City in 1935 where she worked at the Brearley School from which she had graduated in 1916. Mrs. Evarts moved to Kent at the suggestion of her sisterin-law, Dr. Josephine Evarts, in 1941 and bought a beautiful old farm on Cobble Lane. She continued with farming, bringing down a few cows, horses, and equipment by train and truck from the old farm in Vermont. Little by little Cobble Hill Farm developedinto a prize-winning Golden Guernsey dairy herd. She loved running it, mainly with the help of Myron Jennings, her favorite farm manager. He worked for and with her from 1946 until she entered The Kent nursing home in 1995. She was a great believer in hard work, education, citizenship, and responsibility. A very important part of her life in Kent was her work with allthe boards and committees she served on to help make the world a better place. For 40 years she worked with League of Women Voters in Kent, including serving as president. She was a charter member of FISH, served on the Board of Deacons at the Congregational Church, was a member of the Republican Town Committee, belonged to the Kent Grange and served on the Farm Bureau Board as well as the Extension Service Board, the Connecticut State Board of Planned Parenthood, theConnecticut Child Welfare Association Board, and was president of the Litchfield County Republican Women's Association. In addition, and in the tradition of her great-grandfather, Edwin D. Morgan, Civil War governor of New York, she ran for he Connecticut House of Representatives. She was elected in November 1958, to represent the Town of Kent, and served for four terms. After her retirement she became an active member of the OWLs (Organization of Women Legislators), which worked to push for state legislation on behalf of women's needs and issues. She is survived by four children: Mary Steele of Cambridge, Mass.; Katharine E. Merck of Lexington, Mass.; Elizabeth E. de Rham of Cambridge, Mass.; and Jasper M. Evarts of South Dartmouth, Mass.; 19 grandchildren, 36 great grandchildren, and 2 greatgreat grandchildren; and by Sue Howland, a devoted helper for more than 40 years. She was predeceased by her oldest son, Maxwell Evarts, of Mount Kisco, New York, who died in 1986, and by her oldest grandchild, Katharine Evarts Merck, who died in 1961. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Katharine A. Evarts Scholarship Fund at the Kent School, Kent, Conn. 06757 (only children of residents of the Town of Kent are eligible for these scholarships). A private burial was held in Hartford, CT at Cedar Hill Cemetery.
      