
        EPSTEIN--Dorothy. Longtime activist, organizer, feminist and entrepreneur died on May 25, 2006 at the age of 92. She was independent, strong willed, generous, a fighter for causes she believed in, and the first woman to achieve many of the positions she held. Born in the Bronx in 1913, she graduated from Hunter College in 1933. Grateful for her free education at the college, she created the first endowed chair at that institution, and was an active member and contributor to its Scholarship and Welfare fund. She worked at the Department of Welfare where she organized the first sitdown strike and later became the first female local president at DC37. She worked for Russian War Relief and the American Labor Party and developed the Furriers' union dental clinic. Later she went into private industry and was the first female president of a vitamin production company, Synergy Plus. When she retired at age 76, she became a senior activist, first as president of the Hudson Guild Senior Center, then as the founding director of the Institute for Senior Action, a program which trains seniors to advocate for their needs. She is survived by her brother Donald of Pittsburgh and her son, Robert Jacobson and his partner Marilyn Gelber, of Brooklyn. A funeral will be at the Riverside Chapel at Amsterdam Av. & 76th St. on Sunday at 11:30AM. In her honor, contributions can be made to the Dorothy Epstein Legacy Fund, JPAC for Older Adults, 132 W. 31 St. NYC 10001.
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Dorothy. The Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) and JPAC for Older Adults mourn the loss of longtime activist leader and friend, Dorothy Epstein and extend condolences to her family. Founder of JPAC's Institute for Senior Action (IFSA) in 1993, Dorothy was a leading force in the senior empowerment movement for over 17 years. Through her personal example, she inspired older adults and the public to recognize the capacity of older persons to grow, create and contribute to society's well being. She will be missed. David Warren, President, JASA Aileen Gitelson, CEO, JASA Molly Krakowski, JPAC Dir
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Dorothy. We are saddened by the loss of our beloved and loyal alumna. While at Hunter and since graduating in 1933, Dorothy dedicated her life to political and social activism. She established the first endowed chair at Hunter, the Dorothy Epstein Chair in Latin American History. Our deepest condolences to son Robert Jacobson & daughterin-law, Marilyn Gelber. Her lively and engaging spirit will long be rememberd. Jennifer J. Raab, President, and the Hunter College Community
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Dorothy. The New York City Department for the Aging mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Dorothy Epstein. Dorothy was a longstanding member of the Department's Senior Advisory Committee and helped to define its mission. We extend our condolences to the family
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Dorothy. Writer, political activist, founder of the Institute for Senior Action, generous benefactor, and beloved friend. My condolences to Robert and Marilyn. Rose Dobrof
      