
        CARRIGAN--Joan.Of New York City died on May 10, 2006. Joan was born on August 26, 1947, the treasured daughter of the late Catherine and Marc Carrigan. Joan grew up in Wellesley, MA and was a graduate of Boston University and Boston College Law School. Joanie loved her family, friends, NYC, Kennebunkport, Sunday afternoons reading the New York Times, lively banter and a good laugh. Joan was a senior broadcast producer for NBC Nightly News and covered many of the most important stories of her day. She was in Berlin to witness the fall of the Berlin Wall. She was in London for the wedding of Charles and Diana. She was in Warsaw for the triumph of Solidarity and she covered the turmoil and terror in Egypt, at the Funeral of Anwar Sadat. She was particularly proud of her contributions to the award winning documentary, ''Six Days Plus 20 Years.'' Joan was also an organizer of the Boston Lawyers Against Vietnam Committee and was an Alternate Delegate for Massachusetts to the Democratic National Convention in 1972. Joan will be remembered with abiding love, respect and admiration by her siblings-Marc Edward Carrigan and his wife Ling-Fen of Orleans, France, Martha Paine and her husband John of Wellesley, MA, and Nancy Kappel and her husband James of Weston, MA. Joanie will be forever in the hearts of her adored nieces and nephews: Alexandra, Christina, Quinton, Gillian, Nicholas, WeiLing, Cassia Carrigan de Aguiar, and Cassia's mother, Danielle Laurent of Paris, France. Joan also leaves behind exceptional friends who made it possible for her to live the life she loved to the very end--Katherine Babson and her late husband Michael Harding, Judy and Norris Wolff, Joyce and Norman Arnoff, Helen and Jeffrey Friedman, Berney Goodman M.D., Yelice (Helen) Karcic and Mary Hurley. Joan was a powerful presence, blessed with intelligence, intellectual curiosity, a quick wit and an indomitable spirit. She was gallant and gracious, even under the most difficult of circumstances. Joan was loving and loyal and for those who love her, her death will leave a void that can never be filled. A blessing and private burial will take place at St. Mary's Cemetery in Needham, MA. A celebration of Joanie's life will be held in New York City in June. In lieu of flowers, tributes in Joan's memory may be sent to the Children's Hospital Trust, 1 Autumn Street, #
      