
        CAPELLUTO -- Alexander James. ''Like the sun, he brought warmth, brilliance and illumination to everything that he did and touched ...a star has vanished from our midst...we are heartbroken.'' The Horace Mann community is in deep shock and mourning over the tragic death of our cherished alumnus, Alexander Capelluto, HM 2004. Alexander's extraordinary intelligence and goodness, his indomitable spirit and fortitude, and his wonderful sense of humor touched all. Graduating as Valedictorian of his class, he was recognized in many ways for his distinguished work and valuable contributions to the daily life of the school...elected to the Cum Laude Society, he graduated with honors in Mathematics, History, English and Science. He was the recipient of the Joseph Chase Award in Mathematics and was a National Merit Scholarship awardee. He received Jazz Band and Chamber Wind Band awards, and was awarded the Scholarship for Academic Excellence provided by the State of New York. He was a remarkable individual whose imprint was everywhere...class president, a Governing Council representative, Model UN member, president of the Jazz Ensemble, ad hoc reporter for The Record, a cross-country runner and an avid basketball player. He was elected by his classmates to deliver their valedictory in June 2004. His death is a tragic loss. We are anguished by his passing and extend our most heartfelt condolences to his parents, Jacques and Karen Capelluto, and his sister Katherine, HM 2000. Dr. Thomas M. Kelly Head of School Robert J. Katz, HM 1965 Chair, Board of Trustees
        $(6$)CAPELLUTO -- Alexander, from the beginning a blend of brilliance, sweetness and spirit. He was our daughter's first playdate and will always be ''Zander to our Gingey.'' The memories and images are full in our hearts. With love and sympathy, Kevin, Lindsay, Lexi and Matti Brine
        $(6$)CAPELLUTO -- Alexander. Each of us mourns the tragic death of Alexander, age 20. His compassion, prodigious intellect and multiple talents awed and inspired all who knew him. Our loving thoughts are with his family. Donald, Julie, Joshua and Zoe Marcuse
        $(6$)CAPELLUTO -- Alexander. Beloved son of Jacques and Karen, loving brother of Katherine. Services 12 noon, Monday, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Avenue. No flowers.
        $(6$)CAPELLUTO -- Alexander. We deeply mourn the tragic death of our dear friend Alex. Karen, Jacques & Katherine, our thoughts and sympathies are with you. Ellen, Jeffrey, Kara and Jesse Oppenheim
        $(6$)CAPELLUTO--Alexander. You were the epitome of character and leadership. You will be missed. Shelley, Jeffrey, Jared and Adam
      