
        GOODMAN--Anthony R. Beloved husband of Zmira Goodman for almost 52 years, on May 20, 2006 at The Mount Sinai Hospital after a long and valiant battle with heart disease and cancer. A perceptive and talented individual of great integrity and outstanding wit, Tony was born in London and educated at Oxford University where he received his degrees with Honors in Politics, Philosophy and Economics in 1953. Singled out as one of three promising young students at Oxford, he was selected to join Reuters upon graduation, and Fleet Street immediately became his home. Tony was a respected journalist whose career with Reuters spanned over four decades, twenty years of which were at the U.N. His in-depth and incisive reporting, particulary on topics concerning sensitive regions around the world, earned him wide esteem in the international community. He covered a variety of assignments around the world, among them a stint in Iran after the takeover of the U.S. Embassy. In addition to his devoted wife Zmira, he is survived by an extended family of cousins in England and Canada, and by scores of friends and colleagues who will miss him dearly. Services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, on Wednesday, May 24 at 11:15AM. Interment will follow at New Montefiore Cemetery in Farmingdale, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in care of Valentin Fuster, M.D., at The Cardiovascular Institute of Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        $(6$)GOODMAN--Anthony R. The Faculty and Staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Anthony R. Goodman, an award-winning journalist and news editor for Reuters and the devoted husband of Zmira Goodman, a driving force behind the establishment of the Cardiovascular Institute. We extend our deepest sympathy to Zmira and to the entire family. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Director, Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and The Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health
        $(6$)GOODMAN--Anthony. The Board of Directors of Americans for Oxford, Inc. (AFO), and the entire Oxford University community mourn the loss of Tony, a distinguished journalist and devoted husband to AFO Board member, Zmira Goodman. Tony was an Oxford man whose great wit, loyalty, humor, humility and humanity will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Zmira and her family. Paul M. Dodyk, Esquire, Chairman, AFO Michael G. Cunningham, Director, Oxford NA Office
        $(6$)GOODMAN--Anthony. We mourn and miss our dear friend, Tony, erudite and elegant, and extend sympathy and affection to his esteemed wife, Zmira. Joanna and Allan, Judy and Mickey
      