
        TANCER--Dr. M. Leon. A distinguished obstetrician and gynecologic surgeon, M. Leon Tancer died peacefully at his home in Teaneck, NJ on May 24, 2006, four days before his 90th birthday. In a career that spanned more than six decades, Dr. Tancer was Director of Obstetrics and Gynecology at three New York City intitutions: French Hospital (1949-1971), Brookdale Hospital Medical Center (1971-1984), and Maimonides Medical Center (1984-1990). He was also Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York University School of Medicine (1958-1979), at State University of New York, Health Science Center at Brooklyn (1979-1990) and at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons (1990-recently). An internationally known uro-gynecologist, he was an expert on the surgical repair of fistulas and other complications of unattended childbirth. Dr. Tancer was also a sought-after teacher who traveled to medically underserved countries, such as Ethiopia, to share knowledge and surgical techniques which radically improved the lives of many women. The son of Jewish immigrants from Galicia, M. Leon Tancer graduated from Erasmus High School in Brooklyn, New York University College of Arts & Pure Science in 1936, and New York University College of Medicine in 1940. Dr. Tancer served as a Lieutenant Commander (Active Service, 1942-1946) in the US Navy during WWII before completing his postgraduate study and training at NYU School of Medicine, Harlem Hospital and French Hospital. Throughout his career, he remained close to his alma mater as President of NYU Medical Alumni (1970-1971), Director of NYU Alumni Federation (1971-1976), as a recipient of the NYU Alumni Meritorius Award in 1975, and as a 1993 recipient of the Solomon A. Berson Medical Alumni Achievement Award. ''I always thought of him as the consummate physician in his humanistic approach to the patient and her family,'' said Dr. Anthony Grieco, Associate Dean of New York University School of Medicine. ''You have no idea how important it was to have someone of his stature, someone who was looked up to as a role model, inspiring the new Berson inductees. He was a commanding figure, with excitement in his eye and in his voice, with a spark, a dynamism that never left him, even when he was ill.'' Dr. Tancer was also active in civic and Jewish affairs in Teaneck, NJ, where his two children grew up. He loved music, opera, theater and the culture of NYC. Throughout his life he was an avid and outstanding athlete and tennis player. He was the patriarch and fulcrum of the farflung but close-knit Tancer family. Dr. Tancer is survived by his beloved wife of 66 years, Norma Gorshen Tancer; his daughter, Jo Ann Tancer and her partner Martin Hennessey; his son and daughter-in-law, Steven Bennett and Nancy Kaplan Tancer; his cherished grandchildren Jason, Matthew and Lauren Tancer; his sister, Reni Tancer Kaye of Providence, RI; numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews; and the hundreds of physicians whose lives and careers he sternly but lovingly shaped. He made a meaningful impact on everyone who knew him. His loss is deeply mourned by all. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        $(6$)TANCER--M. Leon. The Department of OB/GYN at Maimonides Medical Center regretfully acknowledges the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. M. Leon Tancer on May 24, 2006. Dr. Tancer served honorably asChairman in the Department of OB/GYN at Maimonides Medical Center from 1984 until 1990. Our deepest sympathy is with the family. Howard Minkoff, M.D. Chairman, Dept of OB/GYN Maimonides Medical Center
      