
        CASSON--Dr. Phillip Raynor. Died on May 29 following a recent illness. Born in Sydney, Australia, Dr. Casson graduated from the Sydney High Boys School and went on to attend the Sydney University medical School. After graduating with a BS and MB in medicine he went to Broome, Australia, to work as a surgeon in the Flying Doctor's Service, the airplane-based medical unit that made it possible for resident of the Australian Outback to receive emergency medical care. Dr. Casson then spent 12 years as a practicing surgeon in England, becoming a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1958. He came to the United States in 1959 to do a Fellowship in head and neck cancer at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital. In 1963, he joined the staff at the New York University Medical Center at the urging of Dr. John Converse, who had recently founded the Institute of Reconstructive and Plastic Surgery at the hospital. There, Dr. Casson became involved in pioneering transplant research, most notably in that being conducted by Dr. Jean Dausset of Paris, France. Along with Dr. Converse and the late Dr. Felix Rapaport, Dr. Casson helped Dr. Dausset investigate the significance of tissue typing and histocompatibility in facilitating the successful transplantations of human organs, groundbreaking ideas in the medical field and for which Dr. Dausset received the 1980 Nobel Prize. Dr. Casson remained on the staff of NYU Medical Center as an Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery until his retirement in 2004. He was also an Assistant Attending Surgeon at Tisch Hospital and an Associate Attending Surgeon at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary. He was a member of the American College of Surgeons, the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and the Transplant Society. He was also a founding member of the Pawling Mountain Club in Pawling, NY. Dr. Casson will be remembered as a warm and caring husband, father and physician. A gifted surgeon who made enduring contributions to the medical community, he remained a mentor to many surgeons who trained under him over the course of his long career. He was an avid sportsman and oenophile who enjoyed the company of a wide variety of friends who shared his interests and sense of humor. He is survived by his loving wife Rosemary and daughters, Nicole, Victoria and Lindsay. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent in his memory to the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction, 317 East 34th Street, Suite 901, New York, NY 10016. A memorial service will be held on June 1st at the Frank Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, at 3 P.M.
      