
        HIRSCHHORN--Herbert H. Born in Brooklyn, New York, April 13, 1909; admitted to the Bar, 1934, New York; U.S. Supreme Court, 1962; U.S. District Court, Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, 1966; U.S. District Court, Western District of New York, 1966; U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, 1966. Education: New York University -Bachelor of Arts, 1930; Doctor of Jurisprudence, 1932; Doctor of Juridical Science, 1934; Master of Arts, 1937. Director Emeritus of the New York University Alumni Federation. Recipient: Meritorious Service Award, New York University, 1982; Life Membership in the Albert Gallatin Associates of New York University, 1991. Distinguished Service Awards Washington Square College and New York University, 1992; Judge Edward Weinfeld Associate and Award, New York University Law Center, 1993. Inscribed on the New York University School of Law Wall of Honor, 1996; Honorary Life Member of the board of Directors of the College of Arts and Science at New York University, 1999; Director Emeritus of the New York University School of Law Alumni Association, 2000; Charter Member of the Society of the Torch, The President's Council, The Golden Circle and the Medallion Society at New York University. Member: The Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York State and American Bar Associations; New York County Lawyers Association; American Judicature Society; The Association of Trial Lawyers of America; Society of Medical Jurisprudence; The International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists; Jewish Lawyers' Guild; Metropolitan Women's Bar Association; New York Women's Bar Association; New York State Trial Lawyers Association (Director, 1954-1980; Director Emeritus, 1982-). Mr. Hirschhorn had been associated with the New York City law firm, Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf and with Dr. Harry A. Gair (Honoris Causa), the founder of its predecessor firm, since December 1932. He was an Honorary Trustee and former President (1955-1959) of the Mount Freedom Jewish Center (Randolph, New Jersey); an Honorary Trustee and former Vice-President of the Prospect Park Jewish Center (Brooklyn, New York); a Founding Member of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue (New York City); and a Member of the Wall Street and Civic Centre Synagogues (New York City). He was married to the former Rose Berger on July 10, 1968. She died at the age of 87 on February 10, 1996. In their marital lifetime, Rose was his constant companion in his academic, cultural and professional pursuits. In their names, scholarships were endowed in Washington Square College, the Graduate School of Arts and Science and the School of Law at New York University. A grant was also made to the Bobst Library at the University. Mr. Hirschhorn was the son of Rae and Bernard Hirschhorn, formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Upon retiring to Mount Freedom, New Jersey, his father served as a Justice of the Peace in Randolph Township. He is survived by his nieces and nephews, Dr. Lynda Cowan, Carol and Saul Goodman, and Nancy and Craig Karlebach, his grandniece Nicole Karlebach and his grandnephew Jared Karlebach. Funeral services will be held at Mt. Freedom Jewish Center, 1209 Sussex Turnpike, Mt. Freedom, NJ on Thursday, May 25, 2006 at 11 A.M. Contributions may be made to Mt. Freedom Jewish Center or New York University. For additional information please call ''Bernheim-Apter-Kreitzman'' 1-800-938-6372.
        $(6$)HIRSCHHORN -- Herbert H. The entire New York University community deeply mourns the death of Herbert H. Hirschhorn-distinguished alumnus and director emeritus of the New York University Alumni Federation. A fourtime graduate of NYC (A.B., 1930, Washington Square College; A.M, 1937, Graduate School of Arts and Science; J.D., 1932, J.S.D., 1934, School of Law), he was associated since 1932 with the law firm of Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf and its predecessors. Highly esteemed by men and women of the legal community, he achieved national eminence in his profession. He was also a man of faith, tirelessly serving leadership roles at synagogues in New York City and New Jersey. For his decades of exceptional service to NYU, he received the Meritorious Service Award; Life Membership in the Albert Gallatin Associates; the Distinguished Service Award of Washington Square College and of the University; and the Judge Edward Weinfeld Associate and Award. His name is inscribed on the New York University School of Law Wall of Honor. The absence of this wise, caring, and generous man will be keenly felt by the NYU community, and we express our profound and deepest sympathy to his loved ones. John Sexton, President, NYU
        $(6$)HIRSCHHORN--Herbert H., 97. With deep sadness we mourn the passing of our beloved friend, colleague, and mentor. The recipient of four degrees from N.Y.U., he joined our firm 73 years ago, and we will miss him greatly. His late wife and constant companion, Rose, predeceased him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his nieces and their families. Funeral services will be held at 11 AM on Thursday, May 25 at the Mt. Freedom Jewish Center, 1209 Sussex Turnpike, Mt. Freedom, New Jersey. Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf
      