
        SOKOLOFF -- Alice Hunt. Died April 29, 2006 in Sun Valley, Idaho. She was born in New York, June 3, 1912, the daughter of the late Dr. James Ramsay Hunt, professor of neurology at Columbia University, who was arguably the pre-eminent neurologist of the 20th century. Her mother was the late Alice St. John Nolan, of Springfield, Illinois. She survived her beloved husband, Dr. Boris Sokoloff, originally of St. Petersburg, Russia, who first came to this country at the invitation of the Rockefeller Institute from the Pasteur Institute in Paris. He also worked at Sloan Kettering and University of Washington Cancer Research Center, authored 27 books, and ended his career as head of The Cancer Research Laboratory at Florida Southern College. He also was editor of the scientific journal, Growth. Her much loved brother was the late James Ramsay Hunt Jr., former intelligence officer with the CIA. She was a loving and beloved mother to Kiril, of Boca Raton, Florida, and Sun Valley, Idaho, and leaves behind her precious grandchildren, Jay and Emily Sokoloff. As the last of her generation by more than 25 years, she was a loving aunt to four nieces and nephews, to whom she was a mainstay of support over the years, and was great-aunt to twelve great-nieces and nephews. Alice was a precocious student, being admitted to Radcliffe when she was only 16. A child of the Depression, she was obliged to leave college after only one year and worked as a researcher and writer in New York City. She was an accomplished pianist and musician who studied composition with Rubin Goldmark and Constantin Shvedoff. She wrote in many different forms and her works include a symphony, several shorter orchestral pieces, three string quartets and works for solo instruments and various chamber groups, several of which have been performed at Carnegie Hall. She was a pupil of Alexander Siloti, considered the greatest pianist of his day as well as a student of Franz Liszt, whose daughter, Cosima Wagner, was the subject of one of Alice's three biographies. Another biography was entitled Hadley: The First Mrs. Hemmingway. It is generally regarded that ''A Movable Feast'' by Ernest Hemmingway was written by Ernest as a love story for his first wife. The other biography was a riches to rags story, the life of Kate Chase Smith, who was the daughter of Salmon Chase, Secretary of the Treasury, under Lincoln who experienced a tragic fall. For 25 years, Alice wrote classical music reviews for a syndicate of newspapers. In her spare time, she wrote mystery stories, which were published in many popular magazines. When her husband died in 1979, she returned to her roots in Westchester County, where she spent many years as a volunteer in the oncology department of Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco. She considered this the most rewarding work of her life. Sharp until the end, she was passionately interested in current affairs. She considered her childhood summers on the farm in Katonah, New York to have shaped her life. A great dog lover, she took much interest in the myriad canine personalities who became a part of her life over the years. Her loving devotion to and involvement in the lives of the younger members of her family was a sustaining pleasure for her and for them. A memorial service will take place on Saturday, June 3, 2006, 2 P.M. at St. Matthew's Church, in Bedford, New York. Memorial contributions may be made to the Idaho Compassion.
      