
        WALKER--Vincent Carl. Born in Mateo Sanchez, Cuba on April 16, 1930 to Daniel Walker and Theodure Joseph Walker. At six years old, Vincent left Cuba to go to Jamaica with his family. He attended primary school and later Buxton high school in Kingston, Jamaica, graduated and entered the civil service. He was treasurer for the Kingston and Saint Andrew Corporation and later, the Mayor's Office of the City of Kingston. In 1955, he emigrated to the United States. He attended Baruch and City Colleges and served as President of the National West Indian Student's Association, as well asq the West Indian Student's Association of the City College of New York. He graduated with a Bachelor's of Business Administration in 1969. Following his graduation, he became a member of the National Society of Accountants and began working as an accountant with the Internal Revenue Service. He served the public 28 years in that position before retiring as Branch Manager for the Eastern District Office in Philadelphia. Thereupon, he began with his own private practice of tax preparation, defense and consulting services. He successfully argued numerous cases before the tax court, netting his clients millions of dollars in tax savings. He also devoted substantial time and effort to charitable and personal endeavors while living in Burlington County, NJ. He served as Ombudsman for the Institutionalized Elderly of the Department of Health and Senior Services in Burlington. He served as former President and continuing member of the Caribbean Association of Southern New Jersey. He attended the Lutheran Theological Seminary to become a lay minister near the end of his life and always had a heart for the sick and infirm. He was also known for his youthful appearance, sense of humor, infectious laughter and zest for life. He will be greatly missed. On May 14, 2006, he departed this life after a prolonged battle with cancer. Vincent leaves to mourn his four children: Albert O'Neil, Vinette, Carl and Klint. He is also survived by a brother, Hubert Walker of Jamaica, his grandchildren, Sherane, Stacie Ann, Amanda, Katherine and many other relatives and friends. The family has arranged for a wake to be held from 6-8PM, Friday, May 19 at the W.R. Woody Funeral Home, 465 High Street, Burlington, NJ (609-386-1834). On the following morning, at Christ The King Church, 40 Charleston Rd, Willingboro, NJ, on Saturday, May 20, we will have a viewing at 10AM, after which funeral services will begin at 11AM. Following the funeral, he will be laid to rest at Lakeview Memorial Park in Cinnaminson, NJ. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that gifts be sent in his memory to: Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Avenue, Philadelphia, PA. 19111, Attn: Room C223.
      