
        LiCALZI--1st Lt. Michael Lucian. Michael died Thursday, May 11 in Al Anbar Province, Iraq while in the service of his nation. He was 24 years old. His death took place while he was a platoon leader in ''A'' Company of the United States Marine Corps 2nd Tank Battalion. Michael and his three other Marine comrades drowned as a result of an accident involving their M1A1 Battle Tank. He was born on Long Island, NY on April 11, 1982 with his twin brother Greg. Michael grew up in Garden City, NY and attended Chaminade High School, Class of 2000, where he was a member of the track, cross country and crew teams. As a child and a young man Mike had always expressed to his family the goal of one day becoming a Marine. Following an arduous admissions process he was appointed to the United States Naval Academy and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics in May 2004. At the Academy he was a model student, courageous boxer and active leader of the 30th Company where he developed strong and lasting friendships. Mike was commissioned as a 2nd Lt. in the USMC at graduation and attended The Basic School in Quantico, VA. It was there that he took the opportunity to make friends with Marines from all corners of the country. He elected to enter armor school at US Army Armor Center, Fort Knox, Kentucky where he was the honor graduate of his training company. Mike was deployed to Iraq with ''A'' Company in late March of this year. Everyone who knew Mike will agree that he was an honest, ethical, modest, diligent and hardworking student and Marine, and that he was exceptionally loyal and fiercely dedicated to his family, friends and the Corps. Everywhere he went and in everything he did Michael gave 100%, whether as a LiCalzi, Flyer, Midshipman or Teufelhund. Among his many interests Mike was a voracious reader, loved to surf, play poker, try new beers, handicap thoroughbreds, watch (but no longer participate in) boxing matches, and root for the Mets. Mike was also an avid outdoor sportsman. His mother and father, Carol and Gregory LiCalzi of Celebration, FL and Westhampton Beach, NY, his sister Elizabeth, his brothers Gregory and Luke, and a large extended family grievously mourn him. Friends are welcome to call at Fairchild Sons Funeral Home, 1201 Franklin Avenue, Garden City (516-746-0585) on Thursday 7-9 PM, Friday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial will be held at St. Joseph's RC Church in Garden City at 9:30 AM Saturday May 20 with burial at Long Island National Cemetery (Farmingdale). In lieu of flowers Mike's family believes that he would appreciate donations to Chaminade High School or the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation.
      