
        RUBINSTEIN--Eli A. Eli A. Rubinstein, Ph.D., a scientist who was an authority on the effects of TV violence on children, was born in New York City on April 27, 1919. He died at Carolina Meadows in Chapel Hill, NC on May 15, 2006, at age 87. His last formal position was as Adjunct Research Professor of Mass Communications, School of Journalism, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC from 1971 to 1978, he was Professor of Psychiatry and Psychology at the Health Sciences Center, State University of New York at Stony Brook, New York. He received his Ph.D. in psychology at the Catholic University of America in 1950. He served for twenty years in various senior research and administrative positions in federal agencies in Washington, D.C.; in the Veterans Administration, from 1950 to 1958, and then at the National Institute of Mental Health, from 1958 through 1971. At the time he left federal service, he was the Assistant Director for Extramural Programs and Behavioral Sciences at NIMH and the highest ranked psychologist at that Institute. One of the last major responsibilities he had in that federal position was the coordination of a three-year national program of research on television and social behavior. The results of that research program were summarized, in 1972, in a comprehensive report by the Surgeon General's Scientific Advisory Committee on Television and Social Behavior, assessing the effects of televised violence on the behavior of children. Dr. Rubinstein served as Vice-Chairman and project leader for that Committee, representing the Surgeon General. Five volumes of technical reports, published under Dr. Rubinstein's guidance, served as scientific documentation for the Committee report. Subsequently, Dr. Rubinstein was a senior advisor and contributor to the tenyear update of the Surgeon General's report, published in 1982. Over his entire scientific career, Dr. Rubinstein published more than 100 articles and books on such diverse topics as: research in psychotherapy, the status of mental health manpower, the qualities of science administration, and developments in the behavioral sciences, in addition to his editing of the original five volumes of technical reports on television and social behavior. His major publications since 1975 were on policy issues relating to findings on the effects of television on the viewer. He was the co-editor of a book, published in 1985, on ''The Media, Social Science and Social Policy for Children.'' He was coeditor of ''Big World, Small Screen,'' a book published in 1992, which examined the research and scientific conclusions on the effects of television viewing on various segments of the viewing public. He testified before various congressional committees on the effects of televised violence and on policy issues related to that public problem. On the less serious side of his career, Dr. Rubinstein prided himself on having been the master of ceremonies at many retirement parties at the NIMH. His doggerel and sharp comments at these events were always enjoyed by the audience. At his own retirement party from the NIMH in 1971, he was given a plaque naming him ''Poet Laureate Emeritus.'' His federal career was distinguished by the fact that he began in 1940 as the lowest grade clerk, working in the 1940 decennial census. Through a series of promotions and advances because of his graduate work, he ended his federal service, thirty years later, at the highest grade level, GS18, one of only a handful of federal civil service employees to have ever accomplished that feat. Dr. Rubinstein was a Fellow of the American Psychological Association. He had been a consultant to many private and federal agencies concerned with research in the behavioral sciences. He was also a consulting editor for various scientific journals. In 1967-1968, he was a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford, CA. Dr. Rubinstein is survived by three children; two sons, Dr. Lawrence V. Rubinstein of Rockville, MD, and Dr. Donald H. Rubinstein of Guam and one daughter, Betsy Rubinstein of Chevy Chase, MD and three grandchildren.
      