
        DAVIS--Lewis, 80. Died May 21, 2006. He is survived by Anne, his wife of 30 years, four children, Steven, Michael, Peter and Ariel, and five grandchildren, Emily, Nicholas, Alexander, Zachary and Nina. He founded the architectural firm Davis, Brody and Associates with his partner and best friend Samuel Brody, and leaves a legacy fueled by a passion for architecture, people and the city of New York. His love, humor and stewardship were a gift to us all and he was adored by so many in return. The funeral is private. There will be a memorial service at the New York Public Library on June 20. Gifts may be sent to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, NYC Chapter, 733 Third Avenue, NYC, 10017 or the Mt. Sinai Palliative Care Program, P.O. Box 1070, New York City 10029. $(6$)DAVIS--Lewis, FAIA. The partners, retired partner Alan Schwartzman, and staff of Davis Brody Bond Architects and Planners, deeply mourn the passing of the firm's founder, Lewis Davis, FAIA. Lew, together with his friend and partner, Sam Brody, created a practice dedicated to the highest values of the architectural profession. Lew's body of work was characterized by a unique fusion of design excellence with social purpose, firmly believing in the power of architecture and its ability to enrich people's lives. Through his innovative urban housing to his public work at Lincoln Center and The New York Public Library, Lew touched the lives of countless New Yorkers. As a colleague and mentor, Lew was both a role model and a friend. His tutelage, both in the office and his teaching at Cooper Union, Yale University and at his alma mater, The University of Pennsylvania, influenced generations of architects. Through lifelong friendships with artists, writers and others in the public realm, Lew brought a true collaborative spirit to his work. Lew's contributions to architecture, the arts and to New York City were repeatedly honored through awards from professional, cultural and public institutions, including the American Institute of Architects Firm Award, the Thomas Jefferson Award for Public Architecture and the American Institute of Arts and Letters Arnold W. Brunner Prize. To all of us who knew Lew for so many years, we know we will never live up to his standards, yet we will never stop trying. Davis Brody Bond $(6$)DAVIS -- Lewis. Architect, mentor, neighbor and friend. Founder and heart of Davis Brody Bond LLP. For over 40 years, developed his firm to be one of the leading architectural firms in the industry. He is responsible for great housing, schools and industrial installations. He was a mentor and teacher to generations of young architects. We will miss him. Marvin A. Mass and Partners of Cosentini Associates $(6$)DAVIS--Lewis. You were my role model, my inspiration and my good friend. I owe my professional life to you through the knowledge, guidance and friendship offered to me as a young professional. To your dear wife, Anne and family, I send my deepest condolences. You will be sorely missed. Costas Kondylis Costas Kondylis and Partners $(6$)DAVIS--Lewis. You were always a true inspiration to me for all the long years we worked together. I will miss dearly your enthusiasm and friendship, your knowledge and support. I join your beloved wife Anne, your daughter, sons and grandchildren in mourning your loss. Marta Rudzki Costas Kondylis and Partners $(6$)DAVIS--Lewis. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Lewis Davis. A great designer and residential architect, he left a lasting mark on our profession and on the city in which we live through his generosity of spirit and leadership. Costas Kondylis and Partners, Architects $(6$)DAVIS--Lewis. The Waterside community mourns the passing of Lewis Davis, FAIA, the creative genius responsible for Waterside Plaza's award-winning architecture.
      