
        RUMAGE--William Timothy, JR., M.D., 82, of Louisville, KY, passed away on Wednesday, May 24, 2006. He was born in Newark, N.J., graduated from Columbia University in 1943, and received his M.D. from New York University in 1946. He married Eleanor Wisner Burge, of Louisville, in 1945. He was a Captain in the Army Medical Corps, and did his medical residency at U of L., Louisville General Hospital. He retired from active medical/surgical practice in 1994. During his medical career Dr. Rumage was a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons, Fellow of the Southeastern Surgical Congress, and its President in 1985. He was also a Fellow of the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma and a Fellow of the Southern Surgical Association. He served on the AMA Council of National Security, the AMA Committee on Community Emergency Services. He was a member of the Jefferson County Medical Association and was a member of its Disaster Planning Committee and its Emergency Medical Services Committee. He was a member of the Kentucky Medical Association, as well as a previous member of its Highway Safety Committee and was a previous Chairman of its Disaster Planning Committee. He was a Member of the Kentucky Chapter of the American College of Surgeons and served as its Secretary/Treasurer from 1960 -1963 and its President in 1964. He also performed one of the first televised surgeries in the United States in 1963 on CBS affiliate WHAS He was a member of the Kentucky Surgical Society and the Louisville Surgical Society. He was Active Staff at Norton Hospital and President of the Medical Staff of Norton Memorial Hospital in 1966. He was also active staff at Methodist Evangelical Hospital and a Clinical Professor of Surgery at the University of Louisville. In 1994, he was appointed Medical Director for the Visiting Nurse Association. Outside of his medical practice, Bill Rumage loved gardening, swimming, sailing, reading, learning, philately, knowing ''about place,'' collecting artifacts and memorabilia of the medical history and the medical arts and seeing ''the big picture''. He is survived by his sister Agnes Rumage Sullivan, his brother Joseph P. Rumage, his son, Wm Timothy Rumage, lll, his daughter Ann Rumage Fritschner, his three grandchildren, Benjamin Lawrence Jones, Matthew McNally Jones and MacKenZie Caswell Rumage and his two step grandchildren Aaron Samuel Fritschner and Hannah Stuart Fritschner.
      