
        WEITHAS--Arthur. The Officers and Members of the So ciety of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Art Weithas. He will be missed by all who knew him. $(6$)WEITHAS--Arthur G., 95, of 262 Thimble Island Rd., Stony Creek, died at his home Sunday May 7, 2006. He is survived by his wife Janet; sons, Timothy of VA, and Kenneth of North Branford; granddaughter Susan (Raymond) Luci & great-granddaughter Jade; nephews Leslie Woods, James and John Gregory. He was born in the Bronx, NY, February 18, 1911, son of the late George and Anna Van Zern Weithas, and he studied at the Art Students League in NYC with Howard Trafton and at the School of Visual Art in NYC with Jack Potter. He has had six one man exhibitions of his drawings, paintings and collages. His career in advertising covers art direction graphic design and package for Elizabeth Arden and Cover Girl Cosmetics as well as agencies BBD&O and SSC&B. He planned and designed the original copy of ''YANK the Army Weekly'', and became its head art director. As a Technical Sergeant he covered the Central and Southwest Pacific area as war combat artist and photographer. He volunteered for combat coverage in the Philippine invasion, took part in the capture of Manila, saw action at Corregidor and was in the Mindanao landing. He laid out the ''Roosevelt Memorial'', ''V.E. Day'' and ''Japanese Surrender'' issues of ''YANKS'' three outstanding issues. He was presented the Legion of Merit Medal by his commanding officer Col. Franklin S. Forsberg. He collaborated with the author James Jones to produce the book ''WWII'' from his concept of doing a book about the art of that war. His book ''Close to Glory'' is about the untold stories of the YANK correspondents during WWII, taken from their letters and stories. He is past Museum Chairman and member of the Society of Illustrators Museum of American Illustration. Arthur co-chaired their ''200 Years of American Illustration'' and chaired the ''20 Years of Award Winners'' exhibition at the New-York Historical Society. He received the Dean Cornwell Achievement Award in 1988 for his leadership in expanding the society as the Center for Illustration. He was on the board of the Sanford B.L. Low Illustration Committee of the New Britain Museum of American Art. He was a life member of the N.Y. Art Directors Club and the Thimble Island Sailing Club. He is represented in the Art Collection of the Army Center of Military Art, the Coast Guard, the New Britain Museum of American Art and the Permanent Collection at the Society of Illustrators. A Memorial Service will be held Saturday May 20, at 11:00 in the Church of Christ Congregational, 192 Thimble Island Rd., Branford, CT. Memorial donations may be made to the Stony Creek Rescue Fire Co. 5, P.O. Box 3312, Stony Creek, CT 06405 or the Church of Christ Congregational, 192 Thimble Island Road, Stony Creek, CT 06405. The W.S. Clancy Memorial, 504 Main Street, Branford for further information. See obit @ http:// www.wsclancy.com.
      