
        McDOWELL--Alan Stewart. A Jackson, WY resident, died peacefully at his home in Wayzata, MN with his family on June 16, 2006 after a battle with prostate cancer. Born on June 27, 1938 in Binghamton, NY, he was the son of the late W. Wallace McDowell and Louise Smith McDowell. He spent his formative years in Ardsley-on-Hudson, NY and graduated valedictorian from the Hackley School in Tarrytown, NY in 1956. He was a 1960 cum laude graduate of Princeton University and earned an MBA from The Harvard Business School in 1963. While at Princeton, Alan was a member of Cottage Club and studied in the Woodrow Wilson School. He rowed crew and competed in the Henley Regatta in July of 1959.After Harvard, Alan spent several years at the New York investment bank, Allen & Company. In 1967, he married Susan Snyder of Wayzata, MN. In 1975, he moved to Wayzata to start a new career as an entrepreneur in the fast food industry. His major success came with building Pizza Ventures into the biggest franchisee of Godfather's Pizza. Pizza Ventures went public and was ultimately sold to the parent company in 1984. After selling Pizza Ventures, Alan enjoyed continuing success as a business leader through the roles of private investor and director of several public and private corporations, including The Foothill Group, Chart House, Buffets, Diamond Brands, and AGCO. He was also a dedicated and accomplished golfer who devoted considerable time and effort toward mastering the game. Over the years he was fortunate enough to play golf at many of the world's greatest venues and to share those experiences with his many close friends. In addition, he was a member of Woodhill Country Club and Spring Hill Club in Wayzata; Teton Pines in Jackson, WY; The Valley Club in Montecito, CA; and The Stock Farm in Missoula, MT. He was also a member of The United States Seniors' Golf Association. Alan loved America and was a passionate devotee of the principles of liberty and free-markets. As a great friend and mentor to many young people, he enjoyed helping them achieve their own version of the American Dream. Friends and family alike will remember Alan for his intellectual integrity, his enthusiastic support, and his great generosity. Alan is survived by his wife, Susan, and two children, Whitney Weed McDowell of Bozeman, MT and Jeffrey Morrison McDowell and wife Carrie of Austin, TX, and two grandchildren, Daisy Louise McDowell and Callie Morrison McDowell. His older brother, W. Wallace McDowell, Jr. and wife Anne, of Greenwich, CT also survive him. A memorial service will be held on Thursday 4:30pm at the Woodhill Country Club, 200 Woodhill Road, Wayzata. In lieu of flowers the family prefers that memorial donations be made to a charity of the donor's choice. For information: David Lee Funeral Home, Wayzata, MN 952473-5577
      