
        PALMER--Gloria Elhat. 78, of Shushan, NY, died peacefully at her home Wednesday, June 21, 2006 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. She was the loving wife of James Wesley Palmer, who died June 14, 2004. Born January 8, 1928 in Brooklyn NY, she was the daughter of Mary Adams and Thomas Joseph Elhat. She grew up in Brooklyn and was active with the Girl Scouts, which remained a life long interest. Gloria was also an avid and loyal Brooklyn Dodger fan, going to every baseball game she could at Ebbets Field. She graduated from Hamilton High School and Adelphi University in Garden City. She earned her Master of Arts degree in mathematical statistics from Columbia University. Gloria went to work for the Bell Telephone system on Broadway in NYC, where she was the first woman hired for their executive staff. She worked there for her entire career. Her job was to develop trends and forecasting in expenses and revenue and personal statistics. Late in her career she provided economic forecasts for Alan Greenspan. She was very active with the American Statistical Association. Gloria purchased her home in Shushan NY in 1977 and moved there when she retired. On April 30, 1994 she married her longtime friend, James Palmer and they enjoyed a wonderful life together caring for each other and traveling the world. Gloria was a communicant of St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Cambridge where she served as a vestry member. She is survived by her niece, Gloria Zahkes of Norwich VT, a nephew, a niece and several cousins. A Memorial Service will take place on Saturday, July 8 at 11 A.M. at St. Luke's Episcopal Church. In accordance with her wishes, Gloria's body has been given to the Albany Medical College Anatomical Gifts Program. Memorial donations may be made to St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 4 St. Luke's Place, Cambridge, NY 12816 and directed to Gloria Elhat Palmer Foundation. For Gloria's online guestbook, please visit www.mcclellan funeralservice.com. For more information: McClellan Funeral Service, Salem NY, 518-854-3555.
      