
        CLARK--Hays, 88, retired Executive Vice President and Director of Avon Products Inc. died of complications associated with conjunctive heart failure on June 18 at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. He was a resident of Hobe Sound, Florida and he maintained a home in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania. Hays grew up in Suffern, New York. He attended the Loomis Institute in Windsor, Connecticut, where he excelled in athletics. He went on to Cornell University where he graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering in 1941. He served on destroyers in the US Navy during WWII in both the Atlantic and Pacific Theatres and was discharged in 1945 as a Lieutenant Commander. While serving in the Navy, he earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for bravery. Hays joined Avon in 1945 as an engineer in the Suffern, NY manufacturing plant. He became a division sales manager and subsequently a manufacturing manager. In 1960, he was elected corporate Vice President in charge of the international division, and in 1965, he became a division sales manager and subsequently a manufacturing manager. In 1960, he was elected corporate Vice President in charge of the international division, and in 1965, he became President of the International Division. He led the development of Avon's international business. He was elected to the Avon Board of Directors in 1967, and in July 1968, he was promoted to Executive Vice President. He retired from Avon in April 1976 after 30 years with the company. Education and giving underprivileged children a chance to succeed in life were major interests for Hays. He served on the National Board of Governors of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. He founded several local clubs and was actively involved with several others. He was honored with the Herbert Hoover Humanitarian Award, the highest tribute the Boys and Girls Club of America can bestow on a volunteer. For several years, he chaired the Board of Trustees of the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, and served on boards of Cornell University, the New York Cornell Medial Center, the Loomis Institute, and several other education, research, and philanthropic organizations. An avid sailor and explorer, he was elected Commodore of the Indian Harbor Yacht Club in Greenwich, CT. And he was an active member of the New York Yacht Club, the Cruising Club of America, Jupiter Island Club (FL), University Club (NYC), and Round Hill Country Club (CT). His ocean racing, cruising and exploring activities ranged from the Caribbean, Baffin Island and Newfoundland. His athletic interests, in addition to sailing, included golf and tennis. Survivors include his wife of 62 years, Rosamond Seidel Clark of Hobe Sound, Florida; three children, H. Lawrence Clark of Chevy Chase, Md., Harris W. Clark of Dallas, Tex., and Valerie Clark McNeely of Newtown Square, Pa.; brother, James McConnell Clark of Palm Beach, Fl and Woods Hole, Ma; eight grandchildren; and a greatgranddaughter. There will be a private family burial service on July 1, 2006 in Hobe Sound. A memorial service is being planned for November. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to local clubs of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.
        $(6$)CLARK--Hays. Cornell University mourns the loss of devoted alumnus and emeritus trustee, Hays Clark, who, with his family, significantly advanced the physical and natural sciences at Cornell. Mr. Clark was a wise leader who contributed his time and expertise to further Cornell for more then three decades. After 15 years on the board, he was appointed trustee emeritus and presidential councillor in 1982. He also was named a foremost benefactor in 1983 in recognition of his lasting and significant contributions to the University. A champion of higher education and research, Mr. Clark played a key role in toplevel advancement efforts. He endowed the David D. Thompson Distinguished Professorship of Pathology at Weill Cornell Medical College and, with his brother James, established the Hays and James M. Clark Director of Undergraduate Biology at Cornell's Ithaca campus. Mr. Clark achieved a distinguished record in public and professional life as executive president of Avon Products, Inc., and president of the company's international division, president of the Penzance Foundation, and trustee emeritus of the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation. Cornell University expresses its sincere condolences to his wife, Rosamond; his brother, James; his sons, Lawrence and Harris; his daughter, Valerie; his grandchildren and nephews. Peter C. Meinig, Chair of the Board of Trustees Hunter R. Rawlings III, President, Cornell University
        $(6$)CLARK--Hays. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. Hays Clark, our longtime Governor, friend, supporter and a true champion for children. Hays Clark was quite simply the greatest philanthropist in Boys & Girls Clubs of America's century-long history. He was a humanitarian without peer, a man of great vision and deep compassion. Hays expected nothing in return for his generosity, except results that would benefit the young people for whom he cared so deeply. Across four decades, Hays Clark had a profound impact on the Boys & Girls Club Movement, creating a powerful legacy that will last for generations. We are gratified that everyone who walks into our beautiful Hays & Ros Clark National Headquarters Building in Atlanta for many years to come will learn about Hays, a giant of a man whose like will not be seen again soon. A recipient of the Herbert Hoover Humanitarian Award from Boys & Girls Clubs of America for his passionate commitment to America's youth, Hays' contributions to our mission of service will never be forgotten. We will miss him greatly. Boys & Girls Clubs of America Anne Szostak, Chairman Roxanne Spillett, President
        $(6$)CLARK--Hays. The board and staff of the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation mourn the passing of our beloved friend and founding trustee, Hays Clark. The Foundation's work today is a living tribute to and reflection of Hays' unwavering commitment to helping improve the lives of the less fortunate among us. For those who knew and worked with him, he will be deeply missed. For others who only knew him through his legacy, Hays will always be an inspiration. Our deepest condolences are extended to the Clark family. James M. Clark, Jr, Chairman Nancy Roob, President & CEO The Edna McConnell Clark Foundation
      