
        CANTOR--Sol, W. Passed away June 2, 2006. He was the light of our lives for 95 years. An exceptional man, his business acumen was exceeded only by his commitment to his family. Cherished husband of Muriel and the late Hermina. Beloved father of Robert and Margo Cantor and Ellen and Arthur K. Peck, Jr. Devoted grandfather of Warren and Barbara Cohen, Wendy and Lawson Wilder, Eric, Tracey, Marcy, Jordan and Aaron. Adoring greatgrandfather of Charlie, Laura, Scott, Mina and Nicole. His longstanding friendships and commitment to charity further reflect his loving character. Our light has dimmed. Visiting hours at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st Street and Madison Ave, Sunday 7-9pm. Condolence calls may be made at the home of Muriel Cantor, 465 Park Avenue, Monday through Wednesday from 1PM-9PM.
        $(6$)CANTOR--Sol W. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted and longtime member Sol W. Cantor our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. Dr. David M. Posner Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel Senior Rabbi Emeritus Marcia Waxman, Pres. George Asch, Secretary
        $(6$)CANTOR--Sol. We express our sympathy and condolences to the Cantor family on Sol's passing. Mr. Cantor has been a long and valued part of The Ritz Tower as a shareholder and former member of the Board of Directors. Burton P. Resnick, President Richard A. Veffer, Managing Director The Ritz Tower, Inc.
        $(6$)CANTOR--Sol. ThePalm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Sol Cantor, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary
        $(6$)CANTOR--Sol W. My good friend and client of many years will be sorely missed. My condolences to Sol's beloved wife, Muriel, his children, Ellen and Robert, and their families. Sanford J. (''Sandy'') Schlesinger, Schlesinger Gannon & Lazetera LLP
        $(6$)CANTOR--Sol. We mourn the passing of Sol Cantor, loving father of Robert Cantor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and loved ones. Cantor, Epstein & Degenshein
      