
        MONTI--Tita. It is with great sadness that we announce the death of Tita Monti. Mrs. Monti, 85, a resident of Sands Point, NY, for more than 45 years, was an extraordinary woman with a generous heart and determination who revolutionized cancer care on Long Island. Just a few days after the 1972 death of her 16-year-old son Don Monti from myeloblastic leukemia, Tita and her husband, Joseph, founded the Don Monti Memorial Research Foundation. Over the past 34 years, it has raised more than $30 million for cancer research, education, fellowship and patient care. ''The idea was to bring the best of care to patients suffering from this dread disease,'' she said in a 1996 interview. ''That means top quality medical care as well as compassion. Our division is like a family, even though it has grown so big. From nothing, tremendous things have happened.'' In 1972, North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY, was a community hospital. With the Montis' support and leadership, its cancer programs grew by leaps and bounds. As the hospital grew, the Montis' support grew as well - in fact a pavilion, the Division of Oncology/Hematology, a research laboratory and the adult bone marrow transplant unit are all named in Don's honor. The Montis underwrote all administrative costs of the Foundation. Mrs. Monti was by no means a figurehead on the Foundation's letterhead. For nearly three decades, she came to her office at the hospital five days a week, overseeing all details of the Don Monti Memorial Research Foundation, both great and small. Her door was always open and patients often stopped by. Particularly close to Mrs. Monti's heart was the annual cancer Survivors' Day, which routinely attracts more than 2,000 attendees annually to celebrate life. Mrs. Monti was born Tita Scandalis in Pelham, NY, the daughter of Greek immigrants. She began playing piano as a child and performed at Carnegie Hall at the age of 11. Her singing voice matured and she became a dramatic soprano. She gave up piano to study and coach voice at the Juilliard School of Music. There, she met and married Joseph Monti, a tenor. Mrs. Monti taught school for a decade and then raised three children, Caroline, Don and Richard. Mrs. Monti was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera, a benefactor of Long Island University's Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, a member of the International Executive Board of Boys Town and Girls Town of Italy, and a member of the Board of Directors at LaSalle Center. During her lifetime, Mrs. Monti was recognized by many organizations for her outstanding contributions, including the Eleanor Roosevelt Community Service Award from New York State and the 1998 Ellis Island Medal of Honor Award. She also received a Doctorate of Humane Letters in recognition of her contributions to cancer care research, education and philanthropy. Mrs. Monti is survived by her husband of 62 years, Joseph, children Caroline Monti Saladino and Richard Monti, son-in-law Arthur Saladino, 10 grandchildren, six great grandchildren and sisters Bess Hatsis and Joan Tegtmeier. Visitation Fairchilds Funeral Home 1570 Northern Blvd. Manhasset, NY 11030 516-627-2001. Saturday, June 17 and Sunday June 18 from 3-5pm and 7-9pm. Mass at St. Mary's R.C. Church 1300 Northern Blvd. Manhasset, NY 11030 Monday, June 19 at 10:00 a.m. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to: The Don Monti Memorial Research Foundation Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1 Bungtown Road Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724
        $(6$)MONTI--Tita. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is deeply saddened by the passing of Tita Monti, a legendary figure at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset who turned a family tragedy into a vision of hope and inspiration for thousands of cancer patients across Long Island. After the 1972 death of their 16year-old son, Don, from leukemia, Tita and her husband, Joseph, founded the Don Monti Memorial Research Foundation. Over the past 34 years, it has raised more than $30 million for cancer research, education, fellowship and patient care. With the Montis' support, North Shore University Hospital built a 10story pavilion and named its Division of Oncology/Hematology, a research laboratory and adult bone marrow transplant unit in Don's honor. Tita's memory will endure in the countless lives she touched with her kindness, commitment and dedication. We extend our sincere condolences to her husband Joe; son Richard; daughter Caroline Monti Saladino and the entire Monti family. Michael Dowling President and CEO Saul Katz Chairman North Shore-LIJ Health System
        $(6$)MONTI--Tita. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the loss of Tita Monti. Tita and her husband Joe, along with their family, have been longtime supporters of Long Island University and Tilles Center. Their generosity and commitment to education and the arts know no bounds. Our thoughts are with Joe, Richard, Caroline, Arthur and the entire family during this difficult time. Edward Travaglianti, Chairman of Long Island University Board of Trustees Dr. David J. Steinberg, Pres., Long IslandUniversity John R. Bransfield, Jr., COO Chairman Dr. Elliott Sroka, Executive Director, Tilles Center for the Performing Arts
      