
        MERINOFF--Herman I. We cherish the memory of our dear eloquent, elegant friend of 45 years and all of the special times we spent together. Our hearts are with our extended family, Sue, Linda, Cathy, Charlie, Barbie, Spencer, Ruthie, and their families. Joan & Arthur M . Spiro & Family
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime, esteemed and generous member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman. Our dear friend who taught us the real meaning of the word ''civilized''. We cherished the hours spent with you and Sue as we cherished your brilliance of mind, generosity towards others, and the abiding friendship which you unhesitatingly gave to us when we needed it most. Our deepest sympathy to the children and for Sue whose strength has been nourished by love. Joan & Sol Wachtler
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Dear, dear Herman, I could not ever love you more than I do now. You have been there for everyone and set an extraordinary example. ''You lived-you loved--you gave--you got.'' Rest in peace my darling brother. I will miss you terribly. God loves you and so do we! Ruthie
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Dear Uncle Herman, your loss to us is larger than life. You have been a true father to all three of us, as well as to our extended families not only from birth but, most importantly, when our father passed away. You have been the glue by way of example to our entire family. Our love for you is unending. Nancy and Howard, Patsy, Gail and Steve
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Our heartfelt condolences to the Merinoff family, friends and to his associates at The Charmer Sunbelt Group. Herman's passion and vision helped propel the beverage alcohol industry to historic levels. he touched so many through his exceptional leadership. His warmth and intelligence will be missed by all who knew him. Beverage Media Group, Inc.
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman, I. It is with deep sorrow that Andrew Crisses, Howard Graff, Deborah Skakel, Malcolm Ross and their colleagues at Dickstein Shapiro Morin & Oshinsky LLP acknowledge the loss of their long time friend and client. Mr. Merinoff's dedication to family, philanthropy and business was an inspiration to all of us. We extend our condolences to his wife Susan, his children Linda, Cathy, Charles, Spencer, and Barbara, his extended family, and his friends.
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System mourns the passing of Herman Merinoff, an esteemed trustee and the chairman of The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research Board of Directors. A leader in business who served as chairman of The Charmer Sunbelt Group, and chairman and CEO of the Renfield Corporation, Mr. Merinoff had also been an attorney with a prominent New York law firm, as well as an assistant US attorney for the Eastern District of New York. Noted as much for his philanthropic endeavors as he was for his business success, he was the recipient of numerous community service awards, including the American Cancer Society's Dr. Louis Berger Memorial Award. We are forever grateful to Mr. Merinoff and his family for the long-time support he has provided to the North Shore-LIJ Health System and The Feinstein Institute. We extend our deep sympathy to his wife, Susan, and their five children. His wisdom and kindness will be greatly missed. Michael Dowling President & CEO Saul Katz, Chairman North Shore-LIJ Health System
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. On behalf of the board of directors, faculty and staff of The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, we are profoundly saddened by the sudden loss of our chairman and friend, Herman I. Merinoff. His enthusiasm for patientoriented research - the translation of science into tangible benefits for patients - was remarkable. Herman and his wife, Susan, have been staunch supporters of The Feinstein Institute and the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System for many years, and in 2004 made a generous gift that helped propel The Feinstein into an exciting period of expansion. It is tragic that he is no longer here to witness and enjoy the chain of successes that he forged link by link through his passionate spirit and kind generosity. We miss him dearly, and extend our deep sympathies to Susan and the entire Merinoff family. Kevin J. Tracey, MD Director & CEO Leonard Feinstein Board Member The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research
        $(6$)MERINOFF -- Herman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Herman Merinoff, a devoted leader and esteemed friend. Herman's deep commitment to the Jewish people and other humanitarian causes were an expression of his warmth and boundless generosity. His passionate dedication profoundly impacted millions of lives in New York and around the world. That legacy is carried on through the untiring efforts of his family, particularly his beloved sister, Ruth Drucker, whose treasured leadership has strengthened our ability to serve those in need. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Susan; to his children, Linda Merinoff Bogrow, Cathy Ellen Onufrychuk, Charles Merinoff, Spencer Merinoff, and Barbara Albert; to Ruth; & to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Some people come into our lives and leave footprints on our hearts. And we are never, ever the same. We will miss you. Maureen and Ralph Nappi
      