
        GERLI--John Emanuel, at the age of 96, died peacefully on June 20th at the Pavilion of the Osborn Retirement Center in Rye, NY. His large and extended family mourns his passing. He is survived by his brother David, his wife, Christine, his sons John Jr. and Alexander, his daughters Margaret, Eleanor and Diana, his grandchildren John III, Margaret, and Linda, and grandsons Bennett and Brooks, and Alexander Jr. and Carrington, and five great-grandchildren. He was predeceased by his twin sisters, Diana and Muriel. John Gerli was born on October 16, 1909 in New York City. He attended the Allen Stevenson and Hotchkiss Schools, and graduated from Yale University, Class of 1932. He was an executive with E. Gerli & Co. and with Greef Fabric Company and co-owner of Palmer Marine Engine Company, located in Cos Cob, CT. In WWII he served as an Intelligence Officer with the U.S. Army's 66th Fighter Wing of the 8th Air Force. He was posted to a command position outside of Cambridge, England with a fighter plane group supporting bomber raids and reconnaissance flights. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. He was very active in the community life of the Town of Greenwich, CT. He served as a member of the Greenwich Police Auxiliary Force. He served as a member of the Representative Town Meeting, representing District 11, for over fifty years, and he was honored in 2004 for his long and devoted service to that body. He was also a Trustee of the Northeast Greenwich Association. As an active and enthusiastic skier, till his 92nd year, he was a co-founder and a Vice President of the Mad River Glen Ski area in Vermont, where he maintained a residence and participated in a number of local groups. He was a member of the Amateur Ski Club of New York, the Round Hill Club, and the Indian Harbor Yacht Club, and Honorary Member of Ye Olde King's Highway Stamp Club of Darien, CT, and the Horseneck Club of Greenwich. Memorial Service to be held at the Round Hill Community Church in Greenwich on Wednesday, June 28th at 4PM. Memorial contributions may be made to: The Boys & Girls Club of Greenwich, or the Mad River Valley Community Fund.
      