
        FLORENCE--Leonard, Age 74, formerly of Chelsea, died on June 26th at his residence in Chestnut Hill. Mr. Florence the son of the late Myer and Fannie (Raisman) Florence, grew up in Chelsea, and graduated from Chelsea High School, and Boston University School of Business Administration. After serving in the US Army, Mr. Florence, known as ''Lenny'' began his career in the silver business working at Raimond Silver Mftg. of Malden. In 1963, Lenny left Raimond Silver and founded Leonard Silver Mftg. Co. Inc. Subsequently, he acquired Towle Manufacturing Company of Newburyport and remained with the Company until 1985. In 1986, Lenny founded Syratech Corporation, a manufacturer and importer of tabletop, gift ware and seasonal products. In 1992, Syratech Corporation became a publicly traded company on NASDAQ and subsequently moved to the New York Stock Exchange in 1993. In 1997, Syratech Corporation completed a transaction with the Thomas H. Lee Company in which Mr. Florence remained as Chairman of the Board until October 2003. Following, Mr. Florence established the Leonard Florence Group, a manufacturer and importer of giftware and premium products. Florence served as the Honorary Consulate General to Costa Rica. He also was a member of the Board of Directors of The Cardinal Cushing School and Training Center for Children of all Faiths in Hanover, Mass., The Board of Overseers of Tufts University School of Dental Medicine in Boston, The RACE TO ERASE Multiple Sclerosis Foundation in Los Angeles, The Jewish Theological Seminary of New York, The Beth Israel Hospital Board of Overseers in Boston, The American Committee for the Weizman Institute, Lifetime Hoan Corporation, The Fashion Institute of New York, The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Soldiers Home and Suffolk University in Boston. Mr. Florence also served on the Board of the Florence, Chafetz Hillel at Boston University, the Anti-Defamation League, the Cohen, Florence, Levine Estates for assisted living in Chelsea, the Florence Chafetz Special Care Building in Chelsea and the Or Chadash For Girls in Israel. Florence has received many awards and accolades from various associations throughout his long and established career. He has received nine (9) honorary doctorate degrees from the following institutions: Merrimack College, King's College, Stonehill College, Tufts University, Cardinal Stritch College, Boston University, Suffolk University, Johnson & Wales University, and Catholic University. In 1993, Florence received, by appointment of Pope John Paul II Supreme Pontiff, the order of St. Gregory The Great. The award is the highest honor given by the Catholic Church. It recognizes individuals who distinguish themselves for notable accomplishments on behalf of society --regardless of their religious beliefs. In 2000, His Holiness Pope John Paul II elevated Mr. Florence to a Commander of the Knights of St. Gregory, the highest honor given by the Catholic Church. Mr. Florence was a member of the Congregation of the Orange Street Synagogue of Chelsea, Congregation Mishkan Tefila of Chestnut Hill, and Temple Emanuel of Chelsea. Mr. Florence is survived by his wife Charlotte (Cohen) Florence, Faye Florence and Richard Alexander of Chestnut Hill, Susan FlorenceSmith and Alan Smith of Boston, and Mark and Pam Florence of Newton and two grandsons. He was the brother of Gertrude Bial and Delray Beach, Fl., Rosalie Cohen of Boston, David Florence of Boynton beach, FL., Dr. Lewis Florence of Houston, and the late Sylvia Sazinsky, Dr. Hyman Florence and Barry Florence. Services at Congregation Mishkan Tefila, 300 Hammond Pond Parkway, Chestnut HIll on Wednesday, June 28 at 12:00 noon. Memorial Observance at his late residence on Wednesday and Thursday from 2 -4pm and 79pm. the interment will follow at Chevra Thilim of Boston Cemetery, Fuller Street, Everett. Arrangements by Stanetsky Memorial Chapels, Brookline.
        $(6$)FLORENCE--Leonard. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of longtime friend and supporter, Leonard Florence. He was a member of the Board of Directors and the President's Circle, which acknowledges the Committee's most generous donors. His extraordinary accomplishments in business, dedication to Jewish life, and visionary philanthropy reflected a deep commitment to his community and the future. We send heartfelt condolences to his wife, Charlotte, his family, and wide circle of friends. Robert B. Machinist, Chair, American Committee Norman D. Cohen, President, American Committee Martin S. Kraar, Exec. V.P., American Committee Mandy Moross, Chair, Weizmann Institute Prof. Ilan Chet, President, Weizmann Institute
        $(6$)FLORENCE--Leonard. The Fashion Institute of Technology and the Board of Trustees, the Educational Foundation for the fashion industries, and the Home Products Development Department mourn the loss and celebrate the life of Leonard Florence, Doctor of Humane Letters 2004, and vice chairman of the foundation. His dedication to business, education, and philanthropy is a lesson in success. His wisdom, commitment, and generosity will always be remembered. He remains an inspiration.
      