
        HALPERIN--Donald M. of Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, 60, the youngest person ever to be elected to the NY State Senate at the age of 24, died June 26, 2006 at the Menorah Nursing Home and Hospital in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn after a valiant 22 month battle with cancer. Don Halperin was the beloved son of Gladys and the late Charles Halperin; devoted husband of Brenda; father of Jeremy and Rebecca and future-son-inlaw Joshua Burch; brother of Susan and Alan Gorman; and uncle of Sam Gorman. A graduate of Rutgers University and Brooklyn Law School, Don was a partner in the law firm of Kantor, Davidoff, Wolfe, Mandelker & Kass, PC. He represented the shorefront communities of Brooklyn in the NYS Senate for 23 years, with 13 years as the Ranking Democrat on Finance Committee. In 1993, former Governor Mario Cuomo named Don to the dual positions of Commissioner of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR) and Housing ''Czar'', a cabinet level position. Don Halperin was the ultimate consensus builder, a skilled negotiator who had the uncanny ability to relate to all people, bringing the most diverse and opposing factions together to reach satisfying resolutions to thorny issues and debates. His sharp sense of humor and amazing wit earned him friends across the political spectrum. His work ethic and dedication to the people of New York earned him the respect of all his colleagues. As a result, Don Halperin had more bills signed into law than most members of the Minority Party in the Senate achieving a record 22 chapters in 1978. During his legislative career Don Halperin authored a law requiring braille and audio signals in elevators and was a leading advocate for child welfare and criminal justice. He authored the Rapid Transit Noise Code Act on elevated trains and subways. He was a pioneer in developing legislation to revamp the NYS Reverse Mortgage Law and wrote a law to provide grants to finance programs to reduce and prevent racial and cultural conflicts in schools. During his illness Don Halperin advocated and secured passage of significant affordable housing legislation, (Chapter 714 of the Laws of 2005) which provides more realistic evaluation and assessment rates on rental properties with restricted income issues. Funeral Services will be on Wednesday, June 28th, 2006 at 1PM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn. The family will sit shiva at their home, 118 Hastings Street, Wednesday evening; Thursday and Friday afternoon after 1PM, Saturday evening and Sunday and Monday afternoon starting at 1PM. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions in Donald Halperin's name be made to: Shirley Applebaum Heart League; Menorah Nursing Home and Hospital; or the Lung Cancer Alliance.
        $(6$)HALPERIN--Donald M. The members, counsel and employees of Kantor, Davidoff, Wolfe, Mandelker & Kass, P.C. mourn the passing of our partner, friend and collegue, Donald M. Halperin. Don Halperin joined our firm in 1995 after a distinguised career in public service. He was the youngest person ever elected as a New York senator. He held that office for 23 years, rising to ranking member of that body's Higher Education, Insurance & Finance committees. In 1993 he was named Director of Housing for New York State and Commissioner of the Divison of Housing and Community Renewal. Don Halperin was beloved and trusted by both sides of the aisle in city and state government. His sunny disposition, incisive mind and fierce loyalty well served his constituents, while he held public office, and his many clients whom he served as a lobbyist once he left public office. Don Halperin graced our firm with his presence and will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to Brenda, Jeremy and Rebecca and his mother Gladys.
      