
        LEWIN--Harry M. Lawyer and restaurateur. Resident of Palm Beach, FL. Born January 10th, 1920. Died June 16th, 2006. Son of the late Arthur and Sadie Lewin, he was the beloved and devoted husband of Estelle for 64 wonderful years. Adored father of Linda and David Taub and Blylee Gardiner and David Bernstein. Cherished grandfather of Andrew and Suzanne, Marc and Sandy, Josh and Lisa, great-grandfather of Jake, Chloe, Trevor, Camille and Asher. Brother of Norman and the late Richard. A graduate of NYU Law School, Captain the U.S. Air Force, Office of the Judge Advocate General. He became one of New York's most successful restaurateurs. He also served as Vice President of Leasing at Damart Enterprises for 30 years. Funeral services will be held at 1 PM on Monday, June 19th, at Gutterman's, Jericho Tpke., Woodbury, NY
        $(6$)LEWIN--Harry M. of Palm Beach, FL & Montauk, NY. Son of Arthur and Sadie Lewin. Devoted husband of Estelle Lewin. Loving father of Linda and husband David Taub, Marc & Sandy Taub and Joshua & Lisa Taub. Loving great grandfather of Jake, Trevor, Chloe, Camille & Asher Michael. Survived by his brother Norman of Phoenix, AZ. Died on June 16th 2006.A lawyer by training and practice, he was vice president of Damart Enterprises for the last 30 years. For most of his working career, he was a highly successful restaurateur as the owner of several New York ''landmark'' restaurants including The Old Homestead, The Pressbox, Manny Wolfs Chop House, Shines, The Assembly, and The Double Dolphin. He was associated for many years with Palm Bay Imports, a well known U.S. wine and spirits importer. He continued his active business career throughout his entire life. He treasured his close family ties and was a source of inspiration for his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren who in turn loved him deeply. He will be greatly missed by all. The funeral will be held on Monday, June 19th at 1:00 at Gutterman's Funeral Home, Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, NY.
      