
        BANHAM--Judith. On June 11, 2006 of New York City and formerly Floral Park. Beloved sister of Mary Ballard, Jeanne Aller and Michael Bailey. Loving sister-in-law of Anne, Mike and JC. Dear daughter of the late A. Lorraine and Barry O. Bailey. Cherished aunt of Megan, Katherine, Mary Kate and Matthew. She will also be greatly missed by little Olivia and Jarrod. Friends may call Wednesday, 7-9 and Thursday, 2-5 and 7-9, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, June 16, 10:30 A.M. at St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Avenue, New York City. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the American Red Cross or UNICEF.
        $(6$)BANHAM--Judith A. The Sunshine Group mourns the loss of a dearly loved and highly respected member of our family, Judith A. Banham. A founding member of The Sunshine Group, Judy's leadership, wisdom and creativity, over 16 years, inspired and guided the development of properties that re-shaped the New York City skyline. An esteemed colleague, she will be remembered for her optimism, wit, intelligence and kindness. She touched each of us, as our mentor, friend, and trusted advisor. Judy will be deeply missed and remain in our hearts forever. The Sunshine Group
        $(6$)BANHAM--Judy. We are deeply saddened by the sudden death of our esteemed colleague, Judy Banham. We were honored to know Judy both professionally and personally for more than 20 years. Always the consummate professional, Judy's creativity and intelligence distinguished her as a true leader in the field. Even more importantly, we were blessed to call Judy our friend whose warmth and kindness will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends as we mourn her passing. Costas Kondylis Alan Goldstein Costas Kondylis & Partners
        $(6$)BANHAM--Judy. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Judy Banham. She was a creative, funny, charming and above all incredibly kind lady. Judy will be deeply missed by all in the real estate community who had the great fortune to work with her. We extend our deepest condolences to her family, friends and colleagues at The Sunshine Group. Laurie Zucker Donald & Barbara Zucker Manhattan Skyline
        $(6$)BANHAM--Judith. Judy was a most extraordinary woman. A quintessential Gemini with many interests and accomplishments. She had a brilliant wit and did everything in her life with grace. Her friendship was a precious gift to us. Our darling Judy was deeply loved and will be greatly missed. Stan Ettinger and Elizabeth Evans
      