
        FABIAN--G. Leslie on May 30, 2006. Beloved husband of Jo Phelps Fabian. Loving father of the late Barbara Fabian. Brother of George Fabian of Bryn Mawr, PA. Uncle of Andrew Fabian of Philadelphia, PA and Jennifer Fabian Browning of Washington, DC. Funeral private.
        $(6$)FABIAN--G. Leslie. Deep commiseration to Jo & Les's extended family. Les possessed a quiet determination to surmount obstacles and achieve his goals. He set the highest standards for himself and was reliably generous. Esteemed forever by the Stovall family: Bob, Linda, Sten, Sam, Benedikte, & Robert Jr.
        $(6$)FABIAN--G. Leslie, on May 30, 2006, at 8:15am in New York Weill Cornell Hospital. G. Leslie Fabian died peacefully after a recurring struggle with prostate cancer. His loyal and loving wife of 18 years, Jo Phelps Fabian, was with him. Born in Budapest, Hungary on May 11, 1927, Les Fabian's life became a classic American success story. His early years and education in Hungary were disrupted by WWII, the Nazi occupation and subsequent intervention by the Soviet Army. He managed to slip out of Hungary, migrate to the USA and promptly enlist in the US Army for service during the Korean War. His linguistic skills were utilized during his Army service in Europe. In the process, he was able to assist his late parents, Dr. Alexander and Edith Fabian, in securing Visas to the US, along with his only sibling, George Fabian, now of Bryn Mawr, PA. Upon completion of his military service, Les Fabian focused on his education. In quick succession, he earned an undergraduate degree from Columbia University, an MBA from NYU, plus an LLD from NYU as well. He chose securities analysis and investment banking as his career. At the beginning, New York Life Insurance Company had 2 junior analyst places open (following public utilities and railroads) and 2 promising applicants, including Mr. Fabian. Both neophyte analysts were hired, their assignments being decided by a coin flip. Les Fabian became a career-long public utilities analyst/investment banker as a result. In time, Les Fabian settled into what became Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., now part of Morgan Stanley, where he advanced to major stockholder, SVP and Director. In the process, he recruited over 50 utilities companies as corporate clients for his firm. Les Fabian then transferred his energies to the executive search field, becoming a partner of Ward, Howell Inc. He had several avocations in the areas of culture, history and the performing arts, principal of which was the Metropolitan Opera Co to which he became a generous donor for many years. Jo Phelps Fabian currently serves as a member of the Board of the Met. Constant world travelers but consummate New Yorkers, the Fabians have maintained a Park Avenue home for many years. Likewise, they have maintained memberships in both New York's University Club and Union League Club. Generous in many ways, he was helpful to the careers of young people close to him. Also, he constantly revered the memory of his only child, Barbara Fabian, who predeceased him. He was a member of The Brick Presbyterian Church of NYC. Interment was private.
      