
        GUTTENBERG -- Adele Basch. Of Tenafly, New Jersey on June 15, 2006. In 1978, she with four other parents of developmentally - disabled children formed Spectrum for the Living , as an organization to provide housing, educationand adult training for the multiple-handicapped, developmentally disabled adults. Spectrum built it's first building in Closter, N.J. in 1982, a 48 bed barrier free Intermediate Care Facility with individual rooms for each resident. Today, Spectrum serves over 600 clients in three counties, operating 29 sites for the ICF's Group Homes, supervised apartments and adult training centers. She successfully lobbied the State of New Jersey to provide housing and educational opportunities for the developmentally - disabled. She also, successfully lobbied the Bergen County Board of Freeholders to provide education and training for teenagers and young adults. In 1994, Adele was honored by the Bergen County Business and Professional Women's Organization for her work with the physically-disabled and developmentally-disabled. As a result, she was cited in the Congressional Record by both Senator Frank Lautenberg and Congresswoman Marge Roukema. Congresswoman Roukema was quoted '' Mr. Speaker, I have first hand the results of Adele Guttenberg's efforts. The Spectrum for Living, an organization which Adele co-founded, provides housing, day care, work shops and quality of life opportunities for 250 clients. It is clearly a effective source of dignity and hope for the people it serves''. She and her Husband William, are major benefactors of Spectrum for Living, The Chuck Guttenberg Center for the Phyically Disabled at the JCC of the Palisades, and New Jersey Institute of Technology, chiefly for causes to assist the disabled. Each year, perpetually, they fund a four year scholarship to a disabled student at NJIT. Adele was member of Womens ORT and The National Council of Jewish Women. Survived by her Devoted Husband William, Brother Sheldon Basch and also survived by nieces and nephews. Predeceased by her two children Frances and Chuck Guttenberg. Services Sunday 9:30AM ''Gutterman and Musicant'', 402 Park Street, Hackensack, N.J. Contributions may be made to, The Chuck Guttenberg Center for the Phyically Disabled C/O JCC of the Palisdes, Tenafly, N.J. or Spectrum for Living, River Vale, New Jersey, would be appreciated.
      