
        DANIEL--Ruth, passed away on June 22, 2006, in Sarasota, Fl at age 83. Ruth was known for fierce determination and tenaciousness in all aspects of her life. Following Hitler's 1933 boycott of Jewish MDs, Dr. Bruno Feilchenfeld and his family made aliyah from Berlin to Tel-Aviv, then a Jewish outpost in British Palestine. Ruth's nursing experience with Jewish and Arab children imbued her with a lifetime commitment to enrich the lives of underprivileged children. Ruth, husband Gerry, and their 2 children immigrated to NYC in 1949, settling in Mamaroneck, NY. In the late 1950s, she played an important role at Gerard Daniel & Co., the premier importer and manufacturer of filtration wire mesh. In the early 1990's, Ruth and Gerry moved to Longboat Key, Florida and became active real estate developers in Manatee County, Fl. They also maintain a home in Chevy Chase, Md. Ruth was passionate about a number of causes and became Life President of the New Rochelle Day Nursery; active on the Bds of Family Services of Westchester, Chair of Jewish Conciliation Board of NY Jewish Federation, Treas & VP for the World Union for Progress Judaism and the Helen R. Payne Day Nursery Program in Sarasota, Fl. Ruth served on the boards of the Sarasota Jewish Federation, American Jewish Committee, Sarasota Jewish Housing Council, and the Tel-Aviv Museum of Art. Ruth maintained her love of Tel-Aviv, and with her husband of 65 years built the first Reform synagogue and community Center in Tel-Aviv, Beit Daniel in 1991. It operates 12 preschools throughout Tel-Aviv and Yaffa. Ruth & Gerry are now completing Mishkenot Daniel, a community center and youth hostel and in TelAviv Yafo, with Tel-Aviv City and Israel Youth Hostels Assoc. Ruth is survived by husband, Gerard, son Dr. Ralph Daniel, daughter Miriam Daniel, Esq.; brother Kurt Feilchenfeld, 4 grandsons,2 granddaughters, and 2 greatgranddaughters. Funeral services will be held at Adas Israel Congregation, 2850 Quebec St, NW, Washington,DC on Sunday, June 25, 2006 at 10:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be sent to ''Children First'', 1723 N. Orange Ave, Sarasota, Fl. 34234, or ''Friends of Beit Daniel'', 4108 Leland Street, Chevy Chase, Md. 20815.
      