
        RUSSO--Robert A. Born October 27, 1917. It is with great sadness that we say goodbye to our father, Robert A. Russo, who passed away on June 7, 2006 after a short illness. Bob, as he was known to all was our steady hand in an ever changing world. His kindness, compassion and wisdom will guide us forever. Our mother, Muriel, was the love of his life and his bedrock. He was a loving brother to Irving, Morris, Sylvia and Lillian, father-in-law to Seymour, Susan and Sally, and grandfather to Noah, Rebekah, Isabel and Jack. Donations in his memory can be made to the Sephardic Nursing Home, 2266 Cropsey Ave., Bklyn, N.Y. 11214 and Goddard Riverside Community Center, 593 Columbus Ave, NY, NY 10024. Services will be held on Sunday, June 11th at 1:15PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel (Amsterdam Av and W. 76 St). Richard, Stephan and Ronnie
        $(6$)RUSSO--Robert. A Prince among men and a very dear friend will be sorely missed. Our love to Muriel and all the Russo's. Aileen , Mike Osofsky Family
        $(6$)RUSSO--Robert. Uncle Bob, we will always remember your calm demeanor, warm smile and very long walks. To Aunt Muriel, Ronnie, Stephan, Richard and their families, his brothers Irving and Moe, our heartfelt sympathy. Anne and Jeffrey Meyer
        $(6$)RUSSO--Bob. We deeply regret the passing of our esteemed colleague, a dedicated member of the Board of Directors of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehab Center. Bob was a lifelong supporter of the Sephardic Home, and our 1978 Man of the Year. Condolences to his wife, Muriel, brothers Irving and Morris, children Ronnie and Seymour, Stephan and Susan, Richard and Sally and grandchildren, Noah, Rebekah, Isabel and Jack.Sephardic Nursing and Rehab Center Michael Lopez, President Clifton Russo, Chairman of the Board Michael New, Executive Director Marion Crespi Hon. President LASHA
        $(6$)RUSSO--Robert. The board of directors and staff of Goddard Riverside Community Center note with sadness the passing of Robert Russo, father of our Executive Director, Stephan Russo. We extend our deepest sympathy to Stephan and his family. Stanley D. Heckman, President
        $(6$)RUSSO--Robert. We will miss our Uncle Bob, brother of Irving, Morris, Sylvia and Lillian. We'll remember your kindness, generosity, amazing smile and that special twinkle in your eye. Our love to Aunt Muriel, Ronnie, Stephan, Richard and their families. Lori, Barry and Stuart
      