
        DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. (Carolyn Rubin), Director of Development and Public Affairs at The Rogosin Institute, died on June 14, 2006. Dr. Diehl embodied the spirit of The Rogosin Institute, where she directed the fundraising and public affairs office for 20 years. A caring and ceaselessly energetic individual, Dr. Diehl found great joy in extending warmth and concern to the patients and families that The Institute served. Dr. Diehl earned an undergraduate degree from Cornell University in 1946. She received her medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1950 with the distinction of being the first woman to rank at the top of the graduating class. She completed an internship at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis and residency training at The New York Hospital. Following her medical training, Dr. Diehl directed the Nursing Health Service at The New York Hospital for more than 20 years. She worked as an internist at the Hypertension Center/Physician Practice Plan with Dr. John Laragh before joining The Rogosin Institute in 1983. Dr. Diehl is survived by husband, Albert L. Rubin, M.D., mother, Estelle Diehl, son, Marc Rubin, M.D., daughter-in-law, Jennifer, brother, John Diehl and grandchildren, Sara, Matthew and Bryan. Funeral services are private. Family will receive friends on Sunday, June 18 from 1 P.M. to 5 P.M. at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Marc Rubin at 179 Hillside Avenue, Englewood, New Jersey. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memorial donations be made to the Dr. Carolyn Diehl Patient Care Fund at The Rogosin Institute, C/O The Rogosin Institute, 505 East 70th Street, New York, New York 10021.
        $(6$)DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Carolyn Diehl, director of development and public affairs for The Rogosin Institute. She was the first woman to be top-ranked in her graduating class at Weill Cornell Medical College (then Cornell University Medical College), where she met her beloved husband, Dr. Albert L. Rubin. Affiliated throughout her career with the Medical Center, she was attending physician at the Hospital and faculty member at the Medical College from 1952 until 1981, and continued as an important institutional liaison thereafter. Compassionate and committed to the service of patients and medical research, she will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire Diehl & Rubin families. Dr. Herbert Pardes President and CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital Dr. Antonio M. Gotto Jr. Dean Weill Cornell Medical College
      