
        MERINOFF--Herman I. Dear Herman, you were the light that brightened so many lives, especially ours. Sharing important times with you and Sue made them extra special for us. We will miss the glow of your smile, the warmth of your heart, the generosity of your spirit and cherish your memory every of our lives. Our sincerest sympathy to Sue, the kids, Ruthie and all of their families. Ashley, Becky and Bruce Levine
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Herman I. Merinoff, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council. Mr. Merinoff was a leading advocate for cancer research at the University where he established the Merinoff Family Cancer Research Fund. For more than 25 years, Mr. Merinoff has supported the work of young postdoctoral fellows pursuing novel approaches to a cancer remedy. A generous participate in the life of the University, he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved family. Paul Nurse, President Joshua Lederberg, President Emeritus Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman, RU Council David Rockefeller,Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee, Board of Trustees
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman.We share the immense sadness of Herman's family and friends. We loved, admired and were honored to know him. Our deepest sympathies to Sue and their family. Philip and Elaine Bloom
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I.Dear Herman, you were the light that brightened so many lives, especially ours. Sharing important times with you and Sue made them extra special for us. We will miss the glow of your smile, the warmth of your heart, the generosity of your spirit and cherish your memory every day of our lives. Our sincerest sympathy to Sue, the kids, Ruthie and all of their families. Ashley, Becky and Bruce Levine
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman. You have touched and enriched the lives of each of us, beyond description, teaching by example that integrity, morality and true partnerships arethe cornerstones of all success. Our gratitude, sorrow and loss are as deep as our commitment to live and work in the spirit of your vision, and we will make you proud. On behalf of The Associates of the Charmer Sunbelt Group
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I. Our heartfelt condolences to the Merinoff family, friends and to his associates at The Charmer Sunbelt Group. Herman's passion and vision helped propel the beverage alcohol industry to historic levels. He touched so many through his exceptional leadership. His warmth and intelligence will be missed by all who knew him. Beverage Media Group, Inc.
        $(6$)MERINOFF--Herman I.We are profoundly saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Herman. An extraordinary elegant man for all seasons; a delight to be with, an instinctive, caring patriarch. Forever many cherished memories of over 45 years. Heartfelt condolences to Sue, Ruthie and the entire family. Carol and Mel Carro
        $(6$)MERINOFF -- Herman. Our dear friend Herman who modeled life for us in such a wonderful unconventional way--you will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to our dearest Sue & the entire Merinoff family. We love you. Hazel & Marvin Shanken
      