
        ROSS--Robert. Bob Ross devoted his life to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, taking it from a handful of local chapters to an internationally renowned nonprofit organization. As MDA's top executive for more than 40 years, Bob can be credited with virtually every achievement made by MDA -- the Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon, a summer camp program benefiting more than 4,000 kids a year, cutting-edge lifesaving research, a nationwide network of expert-led clinics, and too many other accomplishments to enumerate. With an unwavering commitment to MDA's primary mission of eradicating neuromuscular diseases, Bob pressed staff members and rallied volunteers to do their best. At the same time, he opened his compassionate heart to thousands of families he knew personally whose lives were affected by the more than 40 diseases in MDA's program. Bob Ross was MDA's president and chief executive officer, and much more. His numerous skills created success, his vision made dreams come true, and his deeply caring heart assured that the easing of suffering was always MDA's guiding priority. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, and to the countless members of his MDA family. We're honored to have been his friends. The MDA Robert Ross Memorial Fund has been established to receive contributions in his memory. Gifts can be sent to 3300 E. Sunrise Dr., Tucson, AZ 85718. Muscular Dystrophy Association Jerry Lewis National Chairman Lois R. West Chairman of the Board Gerald C. Weinberg Senior Vice President & COO Robert Bennett, Chairman of the Executive Committee Suzanne Lowden, Treasurer Joseph S. DiMartino, Chairman, Investment Committee Leon I. Charash, M.D., Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee R. Rodney Howell, M.D., Chairman, Scientific Advisory Committee $(6$)ROSS--Robert. We are deeply and painfully saddened by the loss of Bob Ross. He represented the founding and guiding force of the Muscular Dystrophy Association. On a personal level, we've lost a dear and treasured friend. Phyllis and Leon Charash
      