
        DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. (Carolyn Rubin), Director of Development and Public Affairs at The Rogosin Institute, died on June 14, 2006. Dr. Diehl embodied the spirit of The Rogosin Institute, where she directed the fundraising and public affairs office for 20 years. A caring and ceaselessly energetic individual, Dr. Diehl found great joy in extending warmth and concern to the patients and families that The Institute served. Dr. Diehl earned an undergraduate degree from Cornell University in 1946. She received her medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1950 with the distinction of being the first woman to rank at the top of the graduating class. She completed an internship at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis and residency training at The New York Hospital. Following her medical training, Dr. Diehl directed the Nursing Health Service at The New York Hospital for more than 20 years. She worked as an internist at the Hypertension Center/Physician Practice Plan with Dr. John Laragh before joining The Rogosin Institute in 1983. Dr. Diehl is survived by husband, Albert L. Rubin, M.D., mother, Estelle Diehl, son, Marc Rubin, M.D., daughter-in-law, Jennifer, brother, John Diehl and grandchildren, Sara, Matthew and Bryan. Funeral services are private. Family will receive friends on Sunday, June 18 from 1 P.M. to 5 P.M. at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Marc Rubin at 179 Hillside Avenue, Englewood, New Jersey. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memorial donations be made to the Dr. Carolyn Diehl Patient Care Fund at The Rogosin Institute, C/O The Rogosin Institute, 505 East 70th Street, New York, New York 10021.
        $(6$)DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. The Board of Directors, Medical Staff and employees of The Rogosin Institute mourn the loss of Dr. Carolyn Diehl, our colleague and mentor. Carolyn, as she wished to be called by all, was an extraordinary woman. Her kindness, compassion and dedication to The Institute and its patients inspired us all. We extend our condolences to her adored husband, Dr. Albert Rubin, Director of The Institute, and to both the Diehl and Rubin families. We are grateful to have known Carolyn, and she will always be missed.
      