
        AUGERI--Joseph. A legend in the cosmetics industry, Joe passed away peacefully on the morning of Sunday, June 11. Credited with turning Lancome into a household name, Joe was well respected not only for his business acumen, but also for his sociable disposition. The son of Italian immigrant parents, Joe grew up in Brooklyn with his sister, Anne. During World War II, Joe served in the Army. When the war drew to a close, Joe decided to attend Rollins College and graduated in 1953. Armed with a degree, it took Joe a mere one week to get a job at Revlon as a sales trainee, and over the course of the next 17 years Joe worked his way up to become Vice President of Sales. Later, Joe would join L'Oreal USA. Joe assumed control of a little known division named Lancome and, within 10 years, Joe turned Lancome into a well-known brand. On the heels of such a turnaround, L'Oreal was anxious to see what else Augeri could accomplish. By 1984, Joe had become a Senior Vice President, overseeing Lancome, Ralph Lauren, Biotherm, and Cosmair's European fragrance division. In his later years at L'Oreal he worked with the international divisions to further develop their business. For his enduring contributions to the industry, Augeri was presented with the coveted Beauty Fashion Medal of Honor Award in 1990. Having achieved a great deal of success in his career, Joe retired to Palm Beach, Florida in 1993. Joe married his longtime love, Ann Fox, on May 3, 1996. They were seldom without friends and family. Joe's joie de vivre warmed the hearts of those around him. With a mischievous glint in his eye, Joe lived and loved life to the fullest. He is survived by his wife Ann, sister Anne Detroyer, and many nieces and nephews. The funeral service for Joe will be held Friday at 12:30 PM the C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, 306 East Ridgewood Avenue, Ridgewood, New Jersey. (www.vanemburgh.com). Donations to Hospice of Palm Beach, 5200 East Ave., West Palm Beach, FL., 33407, would be appreciated.
      