
        HOLLAND--Marie Dolores Ianni. Born in New York, NY in 1939, passed peacefully from this life at the Holland Farm in Amenia, NY on June 17 after a brief, but intense struggle with cancer. Known within her community--and far beyond--for her tireless energy, community service, and great sense of style, she was active on many committees: the hamlet of Amenias Master Plan, CIPC, New York Relief, Amenia's street tree and flower planting, Cornell Cooperative Extension Dutchess County, Amenia's Business Womens Club, and the Sharon Garden Club. Her immense contributions will be greatly missed. Recently Dolores was named Amenia's Citizen of tHe Year 2006. Dolores (the name she preferred after being amongst so many other Maries in Catholic school in the Bronx) gave to all who knew her stories and impressions that will last forever. After retiring from her work at the Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York City, she and her beloved husband, Larry, moved from NYCs Upper West Side to Amenia full time in 1996. Their farm, the EastWest Bamboo Farm and Garden, is much sought after for garden tours and was included in The Garden Conservancy listing in 2004. In addition to her community work, Dolores was an active member of the New York Master Gardeners, The Mad Gardeners, the American Bamboo Society, and the Conifer Society. Her world travels, often for international bamboo conferences, included Europe, Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Borneo,Thailand, Viet Nam, Laos, China, India, Sikkim and Nepal. Her library, home and garden are scattered with significant artifacts documenting her travels, often with close friends. In the 60s, 70s and 80s, Dolores was fascinated by ancient history and archeology, and was a founding member of the Westchester Chapter of the Archeological Institute of America. She traveled during those years to remote areas of Egypt, Morocco, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Venezuela, Bolivia, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, and Mexico. Her professional life at this time was as varied as it was impressive. She worked for the prestigious law firm of Sherman and Sterling, the New York State Atomic and Space Development Authority, and held a position on the Wang Advisory Board. Amid all of this, throughout her exciting life, was a passion for theatre, dance, Asian film, museums, red sports cars, Chinese custard and cannolis. Before moving to the country, Dolores was an active member of the Indoor Gardening Society in Manhattan and became very proficient at growing a wide variety of houseplants, especially succulents and bonsai gardens. With just a few years in the country air, she created a wonderful garden, collecting conifers, bamboo and many unusual trees.Her gardens speak for themselves, but anyone who was lucky enough for a guided tour learned something. Dolores attended mass at the Church of Immaculate Conception in Amenia. Loved by so many, Dolores leaves those who loved her mosther witty, charming husband of 28 years, Larry Dana Holland; her loving son Anthony Poveromo and his wife, Anne-Marie and their precious baby Emily Anne ofHartsdale, NY; her stepsons Kevin Holland of Elkhart, Indiana, and Larry Holland Jr. of Middleboro, Massachusetts, and her siblings Basil Ianni of Hartsdale, NY, and Lydia Narcissi of Lakewood, NJ, and their respective spouses, Joanne and Ron. Friends may call at the Hufcut Funeral Home, 3159 Route 22, Dover Plains, NY on Thursday, June 22, 2006 from 4 to 8 p.m. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Friday, June 23, 2006 at 1:00 P.M. at Church of the Immaculate Conception, Route 22, Amenia, NY. Memorial contributions may be made to the American Cancer Society Reade Place, Poughkeepsie, NY 12601.
      