
        ARCHER--Edward C. Died with his family at his side after a one-year battle with mesothelioma, in his home in Newtown, CT. on June 13, 2006. Born in Brookfield, CT. on December 19, 1940, he was the only son of Percy and Ida Archer. Orphaned at an early age, he was raised in Bethel, CT. by his aunt and uncle, Marie and Charles Meyers, and their four daughters, Jeanne Banks, Marian Meyers, Eleanor Hunt and Evelyn Meyers. He attended Immanuel Lutheran Grammar School and graduated from Bethel High School in the class of 1958. He received a Congressional appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, in Annapolis, MD. He graduated in June of 1962 as a member of the 20th Company. Following his career at Annapolis he was assigned to the USS Witek out of Groton, CT. He served during the Cuban Missile Crisis and completed one tour in Vietnam in the Commander Destroyer Division 202. He was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal with Combat ''V'' and was honorably discharged with the rank of Lieutenant in May, 1967. He began his career at IBM in 1967 as a marketing representative in Hartford, CT. After holding a number of management positions during his 27-year career at IBM, he retired in August, 1994 as Vice President, Healthcare and Insurance Industries, ISSC. In June of 1989, he graduated from the Yale Executive Management Program School of Organization and Management. He was a longstanding member of the American Management Association and a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors where he was a Corporate Governance Faculty member. In 1994 he joined Pearl Meyer and Partners, Inc., an executive compensation consulting firm in New York City as Managing Director where he remained until his illness prohibited him from continuing his work. He cared deeply about all people, his family, his faith and his country. Always active in the church, he was a weekly reader during mass, frequent church volunteer and was elected head of the Parish Advisory Council at St. Mary's in Ridgefield, CT. He was a founding member of the Emmaus community in Ridgefield, CT, which is a religious retreat serving hundreds of teens in the community. He took great pride in his contribution to St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, NY while serving as lector for Cardinal John O'Connor during the televised mass. He was most recently a devoted member and lector for the Church of St. Mary in Bethel, CT. He took very seriously his role as a mentor to high school students in New York City, a role in which he took great pride. His deepest love was for his wife of 42 years, Maureen Reynolds Archer (Bethel, CT), a friend and companion from the age of nine. He is further survived by his adoring daughters and their husbands, Jennifer and Kenneth Papa (Madison, CT) and Suzanne and David Croke (Simsbury, CT) and seven grandchildren, Matthew, Brendhan, and Bridget Kolf and Olivia Papa (Madison, CT), and Charles, Carolyn and Edward Croke (Simsbury, CT). Calling hours will be held from 3-7 PM on Sunday, June 18 at Bethel Funeral Home, Bethel, CT. A celebration mass will be held on Monday, June 19, 2006 at 11:00 AM at the Church of St. Mary, Bethel, CT, with burial at St. Mary's Cemetery, with military honors. Memorials may be made to Western Connecticut Regional Hospice, 405 Main Street, Danbury, CT 06810.
      