
        DAVIDSON--Harlan ''Harley'' Lee Davidson, Jr. 47, died June 14, 2006, in Manhattan after a long illness. He is survived by a sister, Francesca ''Spain'' Cerutti, a half brother, Frank ''Reid'' Cerutti, a stepmother, Angela ''Bee'' Davidson, a half brother Andrew ''Plucky'' Davidson, a sister-in-law, Linda ''Kit'' Gaio-Davidson, a nephew, Will Franklin Davidson, a half sister, Claudia ''P.G.'' Siler, and a brother-in-law, Steve Siler. He was preceded in death by his loving mother and father, Anita ''Toni'' Cerutti and Harlan ''Big Guy'' Lee Davidson, Sr., his Aunt Doris Cerutti, and his beloved Dalmatians, Bos (the smart and very large) and Doc (the sweet and handsome, not so much a thinker). A friend to all dogs, Harley worked for many years as a professional dog walker and sitter at his company, Dog's Buddy. In his later years, he founded the Canadian Canine Cheese Council (CCCC), the first oversight committee for small, artisanal cheese crafters from Canada's finest dairy kennels. He was magnificently intelligent -- widely read in history, all branches of science, and fluent in four languages--yet he suffered fools gladly, always willing to buy someone a drink and listen with interest to their troubles. He was truly funny and generous to a fault, emptying his pockets for friends or complete strangers without hesitation. He liked to play cards, hearts and poker among his favorite games, bet the ponies, and could never resist a bowling alley. He also liked to fly-fish in Montana with his father and younger brother--to watch him cast a fly-rod was to know grace--but, like most things in life, even fishing failed to hold his interest for long, and he was apt to be found on the bank of the river, his fly-rod leaning against a shrub, his nose in a book. He was a loving brother, and while we could not save him, we would not have traded him for anyone else and will remember him affectionately all the days of our lives. In lieu of flowers or cards, please memorialize Harlan, by making a dog's day.
      