
        MCGUIRE--Brian James, 36. Of Greenwich died on June 12, as the result of a car accident. He was married to Marcie Leisenring McGuire and had two sons, Kevin, 7, and Jason, 3. A Managing Director and U.S. Head of Deutsche Bank AG's Structured Capital Markets Group, Brian was a leader in the structured finance field and managed a team of financial professionals in Deutsche Bank's New York office. Brian was a C.P.A. and a 1992 graduate of the University of Michigan, where he earned a B.B.A. and M.A. in accounting. Previously, Brian worked at Arthur Andersen in New York. In addition to his wife and children Brian is survived by his parents, Frank and Barbara McGuire of Howell, Michigan; a brother, Noel McGuire, his parents-in-law, Jim and Kay Leisenring of Ridgefield, Connecticut, and his grandmother, Ginny Jeter, of Clifton, Tennessee. Brian was also the loving uncle of three nephews. Brian's father-inlaw is a member of the International Accounting Standards Board and formerly the Vice Chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, June 18 at 1:00 P.M. at the Tomes Higgins House, 216 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the Brian J. McGuire Memorial Scholarship Fund at the Ross School of Business, University of Michigan, 701 Tappan Street, Ann Arbor, MI. 48109.
        $(6$)MCGUIRE--Brian James, 36 The global community of Deutsche Bank mourns the sudden and tragic passing of Brian McGuire, a longtime friend and colleague. Brian was loyal, kind and generous, an admirable leader who will be greatly missed by the many people he touched. One of the most knowledgeable figures in his industry, Brian will be remembered for his extraordinary intelligence and unfaltering dedication to the people around him, but most of all for his warm personality and deep heart. Simply put, he was one of the nicest people you would ever want to know. We extend our deepest sympathies to Brian's wife Marcie, sons Kevin and Jason and to the entire McGuire and Leisenring families.
      