
        MASON--Stephen W., Jr. of Fort Lauderdale, FL passed on May 17, 2006. Son of the late Stephen W. and Tacy (Duckworth) Mason of Hatboro, PA, grandson of the late Mrs. Adella Biddle Duckworth of Philadelphia, PA, and great-grandson of the late Pierre LeGaux, former governor of Martinique, Mr. Mason attended the University of Pennsylvania and was a graduate of Parsons School of Design in New York City. His long and successful career as a designer in the field of American Fashion spanned many continents and included his opening a design business, his employment as Senior Vice President of Design with the Leslie Fay Corporation in New York City, and as a fashion consultant in Miami, FL. Mr. Mason had resided in Fort Lauderdale for the past 25 years involving himself with charitable activities, most recently as a docent with the Bonnet House in Fort Lauderdale, where his kind, generous and sophisticated persona exquisitely complimented the capacity in which he served. A dear friend of Mr. Mason's recently shared his thoughts, which follow. For those who had the good fortune to know Stephen Mason or who had the privilege to meet him, we are saying goodbye to one of the last of a great era. ''This was a man who was at the opening nights of Chorus Line, Brigadoon, West Side Story, Pal Joey, Damn Yankees, and countless others. His friends were legends like Bob Fosse, Michael Bennett, Cheryl Hines, the Lunts, Bob Mackie, Rock Hudson, Robert Preston, and Burt Lancaster. He designed and/or built dresses for Jackie Onassis, Lauren Bacall, Marlene Dietrich, and he did once tango with Marilyn Monroe. This was a man who lived his life every second to its fullest. He could turn a phrase like no one I have ever met, and as I am sometimes stumped for words myself, I can only borrow words from a much greater writer who said, 'Good night, sweet prince, And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!''' Memorials may be made to Parsons School of Design, Fashion Department, 66 West 12th St, New York, NY 10011.
      