
        HALPERN--Dr. Seymour. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our longtime devoted member, Dr. Seymour Halpern, beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Vivienne, Ronald, and Adrienne. The Halperns have been members of Rodeph Sholom for almost 50 years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, DD Senior Rabbi Roger Meltzer, President
        $(6$)HALPERN--Seymour L., MD, FACP, FACN./d 1922-2006. Dr. Seymour L. Halpern, 83, of New York City, died on June 7th. Beloved husband of Elizabeth for 18 years, dear father of Adrienne, Vivienne and Ronald, and joyful grandfather of Alex, Sam, Ben and Anna. His first wife of 28 years, Dr. Anafred Nelson Halpern, was a pediatrician who died in 1981. He was a physician for 58 years and a leader in the medical field in understanding and promoting the importance of clinical nutrition. He served as a captain in the United States Air Force in World War II as physician in charge of a field hospital. Dr. Halpern was one of the founders of the American College of Nutrition in 1959, served as its president from 1971-1977, and remained an active participant in the organization. He served as president of The New York State Society of Internal Medicine, The New York County Society of Internal Medicine and the Food and Nutrition Council of Greater New York. He also chaired several committees of the American Society of Internal Medicine. Dr. Halpern was Vice President and Board Member of the NYU Medical School Alumni Association, president of The Beth Israel Hospital Alumni Association and was active in Columbia College alumni affairs. He served as a Board member of the West Side Chamber of Commerce and the Vacation and Community Services for the Blind. Dr. Halpern authored and edited ''Quick Reference to Clinical Nutrition: A Guide for Physicians,'' as well as authoring numerous articles, monographs and book chapters on nutrition, metabolism and cardiovascular diseases. He was an assistant clinical professor at New York Medical College. Dr. Halpern also lectured internationally in the fields of nutrition, diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and received the Purkinje Gold Medal from the Czechoslovakian Government in 1969 for his work in clinical nutrition. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St, New York City, on Sunday, June 11th, at 11:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: Columbia College, c/o Paul Stoller, Seymour L. Halpern, MD Memorial Fund, 475 Riverside Drive, Suite 917, NY, NY 10115, tel: 212870-2194; or to the Seymour and Elizabeth Halpern Scholarship Fund, c/o Financial Aid Office at NYU Medical School of Medicine, 550 First Avenue, NY, NY 10016, tel: 212-263-5290
      