
        BURLINGHAM--Adair M., 72. A Cambridge chef and writer, died Tuesday, June 13, of complications from Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), a rare neurologicaldisease. Born in New Orleans, she graduated from the Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania and entered Radcliffe College at 16, graduating in 1954 with honors. As a young wife and mother in Massachusetts she taught second grade at Buckingham School in Cambridge, started a catering business in Chestnut Hill, drove a taxi and eventually became a chef at the Peasant Stock restaurant in Somerville, where she worked for 14 years, winning many culinary awards without ever following a recipe. She would rather cook for forty than for four, and always welcomed surprise dinner guests. She experimented with all foods and enjoyed everything (except lasagna) gnawable bones, sweet breads, okra, jambalaya, salad with poached eggs with Tabasco on all. She wrote poetry and short stories, hosted Shakespeare readings, studied Italian, Chinese and James Joyce, spent many summers at the Sewanee Writing Program in Tennessee and participated in various writing groups, including most recently her Food Writing Group. Upon retirement, she became a freelance grandmother, traveling in her Marimekko dresses to the homes of each of her eighteen newborn grandchildren as they appeared, where, according to one grandchild, she made ''the best bacon.'' She loved going to the movies with grandchildren, friends or even alone. She loved Bach, the Mendelssohn Octet, James Taylor, the Sunday New York Times crossword puzzle and family games of Scrabble. She was known for her funky clothes, her original turn of phrase, her amiable kookiness and her great heart. She bravely survived esophageal cancer, which is nearly always fatal, and for many years afterwards her surgeon would proudly introduce her to his Harvard Medical School classes as ''Exhibit A.'' Called ''Dearie'' by all who knew and loved her, she leaves her husband, Charles Burlingham, Jr of Cambridge, five daughters, Barbara (and John) McGrath of Windham, CT, Mary Meley of West Hartford, CT, Susan (and Doug) Frank of Kennebunk, ME, Eliza (and Michael) Anderson of Lincoln, MA and Alice (and Roger) Wille of Lake Park, FL; her stepdaughter and stepson Robin Burlingham (and Pan An-Yi) of Ithaca, NY and Nicholas (and Camille) Burlingham of Stonington, CT; and eighteen grandchildren: Michael, Mary Adair and Frances McGrath; Margaret and Elizabeth Meley; Sarah, David, Chloe and Louis Frank; Sam, Charlie, James and Ian Anderson; Heidi Thorpe; Julian and Aidan Pan; and Caroline and Colin Burlingham. Services will be held at Memorial Church in Harvard Yard, Cambridge on July 8, 2006 at 2:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Society for PSP at www.psp.org. Further information available at www.keefefuneralhome.com
      