
        COHEN--Frances, a resident of Boca Raton for over 30 years died Thursday June 22, 2006 at the age of 89. Born Frances Dilbert, she was the wife of the late Solon Cohen and the mother of the late Roy Cohen. Frances is survived by her children, Laurie and Bruce Cohen and her grandchildren, Nicolas Solon and Sarah Frances Cohen, and her daughter-in-law, Lauren Cohen and son-in-law, Richard McArdle. Fran Cohen was well known for both her philanthropy and her active involvement in many South Florida organizations. She was on the board of directors of The Florence Fuller Child Development Centers for more than 20 years serving as President for five of those years. She was a long time benefactor of the Boca Raton Community Hospital. Fran rarely missed an interfaith service, and was on the board of trustees of Temple Beth El and supported the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County. In addition, Fran gave college scholarships to many local students, as well as being a patron to Lynn University's Excaliber Society and Caldwell Theatre. Fran Cohen was recognized for her kindness and generosity in the many awards she received through the years: A star on the Walk of Recognition honoring those individuals who have enriched the lives of the citizens of Boca Raton; Jewish Federation's Award of Merit; The National Exchange Club's Book of Golden Deeds; Boca Raton Junior League and 1st United Bank's Woman Volunteer of the year; Silver Medallion Brotherhood Award by The National Conference of Christians and Jews; Frances D. Cohen Day for civic achievement from the American Jewish Committee; JC Penney's Golden Rule Award; The State of Israel's Lion of Judah Award; Woman of Achievement Award by The Soroptimist International; Federation's Living People Award; South Florida Magazine's Woman of Distinction Award and Palm Beach County Sun-Sentinel Publisher's Award for community involvement. At Temple Beth El, the Atrium bears the name of Frances and Solon Cohen. Fran supervised the construction of the West Campus of the Florence Fuller Child Development Center and was there so much that the workers gave her a hard hat inscribed ''Crew Chief''. The office and after school building on the West Campus is named the Frances and Solon Cohen Annex. Also at Florence Fuller is an administration building on the East Campus named in memory of Fran's son, Roy Cohen. Fran's positive energy, presence, personality and insistent spirit have contributed much to our world. Her charity, leadership and heroism as well as her strength of character will be missed. She was truly a woman of valor. Services will be at Temple Beth EL 333 SW 4th Ave. Boca Raton, Fla. 33432 Sunday 2:30pm June 25, 2006. Donations in Fran's memory may be made to Florence Fuller Child Development Center, Boca Raton Community Hospital, Temple Beth El, the Federation of South Palm Beach County, or Pet Therapy of South Florida, 1355 West Palmetto Park Road #
      