
        STIEFEL--Werner K., 85, died June 8, 2006 at VNA Hospice House near his home in Vero Beach. Born on March 10, 1921 in Brooklyn, NY, he grew up in Montclair, NJ and Preston Hollow, Albany County, NY and later resided for many years in Oak Hill, Greene County, NY. After his graduation from Yale University in 1942 with a B.S. degree in chemical engineering, he founded the Stiefel Medicinal Soap Company which laterbecame Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. He remained President and CEO until his retirement in 2001. Under his leadership, Stiefel Laboratories became, and remains, the largest privately owned dermatological (skin product) company in the world with over 2,500 employees and offices in over 100 countries worldwide. Mr. Stiefel was a scientist and inventor who was granted nine United States patents. He was a retired member of the Board of Directors of Norstar Bank of Albany, NY, the Pioneer Insurance Company of Greenville, NY, and president of the Board of Education of the Durham Central School, where he was instrumental in bringing about its merger with Cairo Central School to create the Cairo-Durham School District in Greene County, NY. He was a member of the Rotary Club of Greenville, NY, and a long time Scoutmaster of Boy Scout Troop 101, East Durham, NY. He was a licensed ham radio operator under call letters W2HSK. Mr Stiefel was an Honorary Life Member of the North American Clinical Dermatological Society, and also belonged to the prestigious Annenberg Circle of the Dermatology Foundation, which annually hosts the Werner K. Stiefel lectureship delivered by a world-renowned dermatologist. Mr. Stiefel is survived by his wife Marie (Caruso) Stiefel and six children: John (Joyce) of Wethersfield, CT, Edward (Deborah) of Naples, FL, Charles (Daneen) of So Miami, FL, Joan Stiefel Rodriguez (Ignacio) of Rockville, MD, Stephanie Stiefel Williams (Luke) of Guilford, CT, and Lili Stiefel of Washington, DC. He is also survived by twelve grandchildren: John David Stiefel, Kristen Stiefel Levithan (Josh), William Stiefel, Lisa Stiefel, Jeffrey Stiefel, Todd Stiefel (Diana), Brent Stiefel (Courtney), Melanie Rodriguez, Andrew Rodriguez, Marilyn Rodriguez, Valerie Williams and Richard Williams and three great - grandchildren: Cole, Amber and Sienna Stiefel. He was predeceased by a son, Richard, and his first wife, Catherine (Pierson) Stiefel. Interment will be at the Oak Hill Cemetery, Oak Hill, NY, with a private service following. The date of a public memorial service will be announced. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to The Werner K. Stiefel Scholarship Fund (for a Yale University engineering student), 331 Main St., Catskill, NY 12414.
      