
        FINSTON--Beth Waters. Cooney/Waters Group mourns the loss of our cofounder, Beth Waters. Beth was remarkable for her intelligence, conviction and sheer force of will. She refused to believe there was a problem that could not be solved, never saw a challenge she declined to take on. She found paths through thorny dilemmas, hope in situations others sought to abandon. Highly demanding and great fun, as partner, colleague and friend, she will be deeply grieved and grievously missed. Lenore Cooney, Chairman
        $(6$)FINSTON--Beth Waters. Died June 19, 2006. Resident of Morristown, NJ. Widow of Mark Finston. Mother of Wendelyn Waters, M.D. and Rebecca Daley, grandmother of Aseema Daley, Lona and Lilah Sniderman and Paige Freund, mother-in-law of Erik Freund. Beth was born in Newark, New Jersey, and graduated from Syracuse University. A reporter for publications including the Philadelphia Bulletin, Boston Magazine and the Boston Herald in the early years of her career, Beth was a Senior Managing Director of Ogilvy Public Relations before cofounding Cooney/Waters Group, a health care public relations and public affairs company in New York City. Beth's passion was advocacy for vaccines to prevent and treat diseases in the industrialized world and in developing countries. She was indefatigable in her work, traveling the world to lend her intensity and expertise to her client sanofi pasteur, governmental committees and non-governmental organizations, advancing immunization against polio, HIV/ AIDS, avian influenza meningococcal disease. Beth was a wise counselor, a creative problem-solver, and a relentless optimist. She was a founding member of the advisory board of the Vaccine Education Center of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and a member of the HIV Vaccine Communications Steering Group of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, June 22 at 1 p.m. at Bernheim - Apter - Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short Hills Road, Livingston, NJ, 973-422-0600. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Broadway Cares/ Equity Fights AIDS, Planned Parenthood USA or American Jewish World Service.
      