
        EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Kathy, Samara and Adam, Ilana and Jim, Jason, Joey and Ben. The world is dimmer, having lost one of its brightest stars. Fred gave healing, hope and inspiration to us and countless patients and their families. In our darkest days he always carried the light. These last five years he set a new standard for personal dignity, courage and grace. His larger-thanlife humanity will live on and always shine brightly in our hearts. Patricia and Alan B. Abramson
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred J., MD. ''Life itself is brief, yet each life encloses all eternity...'' To Kathy, Samara, Adam, Ilana, Jim, Lily, Charlotte, MacKenzie, Jason, Joey and Ben, I extend my profound sympathy and heartfelt love. Joanne Pell
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred, M.D. The board of directors, staff, volunteers, children and families of Children's Brain Tumor Foundation, deeply regret the passing of a dear friend and extraordinary pioneer inpediatric neurosurgery. Dr. Epstein's patient-centered approach to care matched with his unprecedented skills will never be forgotten. Children's Brain Tumor Foundation would like to formally acknowledge Dr. Epstein's many years of voluntary service to our Foundation and truly memorable contributions to the lives of thousands of families with children diagnosed with brain and spinal cord tumors. We sincerely express our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kathy, and the entire Epstein family. Judy Hurley Executive Director Children's Brain Tumor Foundation
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred. The staff and patients of Beth Israel Medical Center's Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology are greatly saddened by the loss of Fred, a wonderful doctor, friend and teacher. He was a mentor to many and an inspiration to all. We are very grateful for the knowledge, skill, time and love that he shared with us. Our deepest sympathy to Kathy and their children. Susan B. Bressman, M.D. Chairman Louise Klebanoff, M.D. Associate Chairman Walter J. Molofsky, M.D. Associate Chairman and Chief, Pediatric Neurology
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred, Dr. The Fire Island Synagogue mourns the death of its long-time member and friend. Our deepest condolences to Kathy and the entire family. Shaul Magid, Rabbi Harry A. Trattner, Hazzan
      