
        REES--Charles H. G. At age 84. President to 1985 of Whitney Communications Corp., a media conglomerate with interests in publishing and broadcasting, died on July 12, 2006, following surgery. He had resided in Stonington, CT, for the past eleven years, previously in Watch Hill, RI, after retiring in 1985, and before that in NYC for thirty years while associated with various enterprises of the late John Hay Whitney. He became a founding partner in 1967 of Whitcom Investment Co., and was a director of I.H.T. Corp, parent of the International Herald Tribune. Charles Rees was born and raised in Mercer County, NJ, graduated from The Lawrenceville School in 1941, and from Princeton University in 1948, where he was a member of the Ivy Club. Twice in World War II and the Korean crisis, he avoided the draft by volunteering for active duty, serving from Private to Captain of ''Cavalry.'' He was with General Patton's Third Army in the dash across Germany, and as a platoon leader with an infantry battalion, earned the Combat Infantry Badge and Bronze Star. While leading a reconnaissance platoon, he was the first American to enter Buchenwald, the infamous death camp. In 1952 he was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency to work on covert operations, and held important posts concerned with unconventional warfare. He became an ardent cold-warrior and disciple of George F. Kennan in his eight years of government service. ''Cat'' Rees served on numerous boards, business and civic, and his most enjoyable was serving as a trustee of Foxcroft School in Middleburg, VA. His most gratifying was thirty years as a trustee of Riverside Research Institute, which does important research for the Department of Defense. Staying on the cutting-edge of technology was for him an imperative, as was taking a turn at public service. His clubs were The Brook, Pilgrims, Misquamicut (Watch Hill, RI,) Wadawanuck Yacht Club (Stonington, CT) and Stonington Harbor Yacht Club, (Stonington, CT.) He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Nancy Thomas Rees of Washington, DC, and New York, Liberty T. Rees of NYC, Camilla R.G. Rees of San Francisco, Nancy Wall of NYC, and Hilleary Coleman of Bedford, NY, a brother, Albert H. Rees of Lawrenceville, NJ, and five grandchildren. Donations may be made in memory of Charles Rees to The Westerly Hospital, Westerly, RI, or The Stonington Historical Society, Stonington, CT. There will be modest observance at some future date.
      