
        MASSIMI--Frederick J. Sr., age 82, a native New Yorker born in 1923 died Tuesday, July 4, 2006 at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, New York, NY. In 1943, Mr. Massimi entered the United States Army and took part in the allied invasion of Normandy. In 1957, Frederick J. Massimi, Sr. founded Newburgh Dyeing Corp., which became Arma Textile Printers in 1984. Mr. Massimi serves as the Chief Executive Officer and under his direction and guidance the company has grown substantially from its early days in Beacon to its present size. Frederick J. Massimi, Sr. has been an active member of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta since his induction in 1972. In 1978 he was invested as a Knight in the Association of Knights and Ladies of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem. In 1992 he was presented with the Ellis Island Medal of Honor by the National Ethnic Coalition Organization. On October 23, 1995, Frederick Massimi received from his Holiness Pope John Paul, II, a Papal declaration, proclaiming him Knight Commander in the Order of Saint Gregory the Great. In October of 1999, presented to Mr. Massimi by His Royal Highness Prince Victor Emmanuel, House of Savoy Orders, Geneva, Switzerland was the Silver Medal of Savoy for his endless personal service and generosity through the American Foundation of Savoy Orders. Mr. Massimi is the only American to ever receive such a rare honor. On June 20, 2002, His Holiness Pope John Paul, II, appointed Mr. Massimi a Knight Commander with Star of the Order of Saint Gregory the Great. On September 28, 2002, Mr. Massimi was awarded the highest honor in the Association of Knights and Ladies of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem, the Knight Grand Cross. This honor was bestowed upon him by His Eminence, Edward Cardinal Egan, at the annual Mass of Investiture and Dinner held at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City. Mr. Massimi was a member of the Ridgewood Country Club since 1975. Mr. Massimi resided in FranklinLakes, NJ and Boca Raton, FL with his wife, Amelia (nee Fabiani). Their union of over fifty years have blessed them with four sons; Frederick, Jr. of Franklin Lakes, NJ, Richard of Cornwall, NY, Gregory of Bedford, NY and Robert of Saddle River, NJ, 11 grandchildren; Frederick III, Caralynn, Benjamin, Dev, Alexander, Tiffany, Michael, Julia, Laura, Robert and Candace, and one great grandson, Anthony. Prayer service Saturday, 9:30 AM at Vander Plaat Funeral Home, 257 Godwin Ave., Wyckoff, NJ followed by a funeral mass at 10:45 AM at Mt. Carmel RC Church, 1 Passaic St., Ridgewood, NJ. Entombment will take place at George Washington Memorial Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Visiting hours on Friday from 2-4, 7-9 PM at the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, donations in Mr. Massimi's memory may be made to Knights of Malta, Order of Malta, American Association, 1010 First Ave., Rm. 1350, New York, NY 10022-4112. www.vanderplaatfuneral home.com.
      