
        KOCH--Robert Newman Jr. 79, an executive in the fashion jewelry business and beloved husband of Elaine Koch, died Friday, at his East Orleans, Mass., home, of complications of Parkinson's disease. Mr. Koch was president of Coro, Inc., the nation's largest costume jewelry maker, before he founded R.N. Koch, Inc., in 1971, with offices in New York and a factory in Providence, RI. Mr. Koch, who also had homes in New York and Long Boat Key, FL, was born in Buffalo, NY, on September 26, 1926. He later relocated with his parents to New York City. He served in the navy as a radio operator in the Pacific during World War II. After attending Nichols Junior College in Dudley, Mass., he joined Coro and eventually worked his way up to president of the company. ''He loved everything about the jewelry business,'' said his daughter Peggy Palmer. His personality and artistic gifts made him perfectly suited for it. He loved the arts, particularly music and painting, and often shopped at New York and Florida galleries. Mr. Koch was formerly married to Susan Dryfoos and the couple had two daughters. In 1995, he married Elaine Stone on the lawn of his Cape Cod home, and the couple enjoyed traveling, dining and entertaining. His family treasured Bob's love of life, whether it was food, the arts, being with friends and family, or traveling. They will always treasure his goodness of heart. In addition to his wife Elaine and his daughters Peggy Palmer and Katharine Willens, both of California, he is survived by sons-in-law Briggs Palmer and Randall Willens, grandchildren Jordan and Christopher Palmer, and Charlotte and Daniel Willens, his stepdaughters Susan Van Sicklen and Debra Nussbaum, stepsons-in-law Michael Van Sicklen and Paul Nussbaum, and step - grandchildren Barret, Nick and David Van Sicklen, Zachary and Gerry Bissinger, Molly and Mathew Nussbaum, and his devoted caregiver Raymond Bradley. Private graveside service will be held Thursday. A memorial service is being planned for the fall. Donations may be made to the Robert N. Koch Jr. Foundation, established by Mr. Koch to aid Parkinson's Research, in care of Mr. Todd Lang, Esq., Weil Gotshal Manges, 767 5th Ave., New York, NY 10153.
        $(6$)KOCH--Robert N. Jr. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Robert N. Koch Jr. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Elaine and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, Pres. Richard J. Bronstein, Sec'y
      