
        MERKIN--Ursula. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of Reuth mourn the passing of our organizational matriarch, our chair, and the soul of Reuth, Mrs. Ursula Merkin. Her dedication to Reuth came from a promise made to her mother, Mrs. Jenny Breuer, a founder of Women's Social Service (now Reuth), that she work for Reuth once her children were grown. What began as a duty became a passion as she worked diligently to help grow one of Israel's most important non-profit organizations, consisting of the Reuth Medical Center for chronic care and rehabilitation, a sheltered housing complex and soup kitchen, senior homes, and the Information Center, a free, national community service which answers questions regarding rehabilitation, nursing care, and geriatrics. We are grateful to have had the opportunity to honor Mrs. Merkin at our recent annual Dinner, where we had the opportunity to publicly express our deep affection for her and our gratitude for all her years of devotion to Reuth. Anyone in attendance that evening will remember her wit and presence as she spoke of her history with the organization. Mrs. Merkin led a life dedicated to bringing hope and sustenance to many and taught us all a lesson in the value of giving. A true woman of valor, she moved us all to greater heights of compassion and generosity. She will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rosa Strygler, President $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. The worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns the loss of this exceptional matriarch who personified in all aspects of her life the majesty of Judaic values, traditions and ethics. Together with her beloved husband Hermann, of blessed memory, the Merkins' myriad deeds of tzedekah and chesed reflected their heartfelt belief that their resources were granted by the Almighty to benefit others. Platinum Founders, the Merkins were sponsors of our Annual Concert for more than four decades. In recognition, the 2000 concert was named the Hermann Merkin Memorial Concert. We will forever be grateful for their naming of the original Shaare Zedek School of Nursing in memory of Mr. Merkin's mother, Sara Merkin, z''l. May children Dinah Mendes, Deborah Gerber, Jacob Ezra Merkin, Solomon Nechemia Merkin, Daphne Merkin and Rabbi David Merkin and siblings Yaakov Baror, Prof. Mordechai Breuer and Tzipora Schneller Meir and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Emeritus Jack C. Bendheim, President Prof. Jonathan Halevy, Director-General Paul S. Glasser, Nat'l Director Lee Weinbach, President, National Women's Division $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ursula Merkin, who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community through her exceptional generosity. Along with her late husband, Hermann, she created a philanthropic tradition that was embraced by their entire family. We extend our deepest sympathies to her children, J. Ezra, Solomon, David, Daphne, Dinah Mendes, and Deborah Gerber, and to all members of the family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O. $(6$)MERKIN -- Ursula. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Ursula Merkin, a dedicated supporter of health care and medical research. Her personal generosity and the generosity of her family included the creation of the Hermann Merkin Professor of Palliative Care and contributions for other important programs at Mount Sinai. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Ursula Merkin's children and to the entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. President and CEO $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. The Aleph Society mourns the passing of Ursula Merkin, mother of our esteemed benefactors J. Ezra and Lauren Merkin. The legacy of her loving-kindness continues through the good deeds and the grace of her children and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President $(6$)MERKIN -- Ursula. Fifth Avenue Synagogue announces with deep regret the passing of its Trustee Ursula Merkin, wife of Founding President Hermann Merkin, z'l, and mother of Synagogue President J. Ezra Merkin, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. Heartfelt sympathy to the Merkin family on the passing of our esteemed board member. We relied on her wisdom and she will be greatly missed. Women's Club Fifth Avenue Synagogue Anne Hiltzik, Chairman Mona Gelbart and Maidy Jeger, Presidium $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. Yad Sarah, its volunteers in Israel and its friends in the USA note with profound sadness the passing of Ursula Merkin, a warm and sincere friend. Our heartfelt condolences go to her son, Ezra Merkin, and the entire family. B'Yerushalayim tenuhamu $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. Michal and Uri Lupoliansky deeply mourn the loss of Aunt Ulla Merkin and express their condolences to the whole family.
      