
        MERKIN--Ursula, the faculty and staff of The Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute and The Brookdale Department of Geriatrics of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine express our appreciation and affection for our dear friend, patient, and supporter, Ursula Merkin. A brilliant thinker and writer, her open and wide ranging mind was a gift to all. She will be greatly missed. Our condolences to all her family. Albert L. Siu, M.D., Chairman R. Sean Morrison, M.D. Hermann Merkin, Professor of Palliative Care Diane E. Meier, M.D. Director of the Palliative Care Institute $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula.TheTrus tess, Officers and staff of The Gruss Life Monument Funds mourn the passing of Ursula Merkin mother of our devoted board member J. Ezra Merkin. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.Martin D. Gruss, Chairman Jason G. Cury, President $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Ursula Merkin. May the family be comforted amongst the morners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow. $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of an outstanding communal leader, mother of our distinguished member, Dinah Mendes and mother-in-law of our former President and Chairman of the Board, Andrew Mendes. May their entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. Columbia/ Barnard Hillel mourns the passing of Ursula Merkin. May her memory be a blessing and may all the members of the Merkin family, who have been among our community's most dedicated leaders and generous supporters, be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Ruth E. Horowitz Richard E. Kobrin Co-Presidents Earle W. Kazis, Chairman Simon Klarfeld, Exec. Dir. $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. We mourn the passing of a beloved Trustee and Founder whose grace, wisdom and generosity have been important sources of strength to the Kaufman Center community and its wonderful Merkin Concert Hall. Our hearts are with the Merkin family at this sad time. Kaufman Center Lydia Kontos Executive Director Tzipora H. Jochsberger Founding Director Phyllis Feder, Chair $(6$)MERKIN--Ursula. We mourn the passing of a beloved Trustee and Founder, whose grace, wisdom and generosity have been important sources of strength to the Kaufman Center community and its wonderful Merkin Concert Hall. Our hearts are with the Merkin family at this sad time. Kaufman Center Lydia Kontos, Exec Dir Phyllis Feder, Chair
      