
        BARTLETT--Thomas Foster, passed away in New York City on July 12, 2006. Bartlett, 87, is survived by his sister Beth B. Gocke, of Oklahoma City, his long time companion Clelia Moraes, of New York City, three nephews, three nieces, eight grandnephews and five grandnieces. He was preceded in death by his brother Rex A. Bartlett. He was the son of pioneer physician Dr. M.J. Bartlett and Clara Nell Mattingly. He graduated from Harvard University in 1943 with a BS Degree and earned an MBA in 1948 from the Harvard Business School. He also studied at the Sorbonne, France; Oxford University, England; Cambridge University, England; the University of Salamanca, Spain and the University of Genoa, Italy. He graduated from the U.S. Command and General Staff College, in Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, in 1945. He became Assistant to the President of American Express Co. in New York City in 1948. He was an export promotion specialist with the Department of State in Paris and a member of the U.S. Mission to NATO, Department of Defense, in London and Paris. As an economic consultant he worked at the American Embassy in Rome in 1950 and afterwards as Executive Assistant to the President for International Development at Kaiser Industries, in Oakland, CA until 1956. He then started his own firm, Thomas F. Bartlett & Associates, International Management Consultants, in New York City. His clients included the United Nations, foreign governments and corporations. He was a Captain of the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946 and retired as Major of the USAFR. Bartlett was a member of the Harvard Club of New York City and several other organizations and a Director of the Napoleonic Society of America. He was and avid world traveler and his avocations were photography and lecturing. The family will receive friends at the Smith & Kernke Funeral Home, 14624 N. May Ave, Oklahoma City, OK on Sunday, July 16 from 6:00 to 8:30pm. The funeral wIll be on Monday July 17 at 2:00pm. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a later date.
      