
        NICHOLAS--James A., Dr. 85, died peacefully at home on Saturday, July 15, 2006. Devoted husband of 54 years to Kiki and wonderful father to Philip, Stephen and Nicole. Adored grandfather to nine grandchildren; a brilliant and humble man with a great capacity for love and an unforgettable smile. He will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, 7-9pm. Funeral services to be held Friday, July 21st at the Holy Trinity Greek Cathedral at 10am, 319 E. 74 St. In his memory donations may be made to the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital, 130 E 77 St. NY, NY 10021
        $(6$)NICHOLAS--James A. M.D. The Medical Staff and the entire Hospital for Special Surgery community extend their deepest sympathy at the passing of Dr. James A. Nicholas. Dr. Nicholas graduated from the HSS Residency Orthopaedic Program in 1952 and served as Attending Orthopaedic Surgeon at Hospital for Special Surgery for many years. While on staff at Hospital for Special Surgery, he initially developed an interest in metabolic bone disease. He was a specialist in the management of adrenal disease during surgery and was a member of the team that operated on Senator John F. Kennedy's spine in October 1954. Dr. Nicholas was one of the founders of the practice of sports medicine at Hospital for Special Surgery. He also served as President of the Alumni Association at Hospital for Special Surgery from 1976 to 1977. He was an outstanding teacher and innovator of many surgical techniques for ligamentous reconstructions about the knee and shoulder. Dr. Nicholas was Chief of Orthopaedic Surgery at Lenox Hill Hospital and always remained a great friend to HSS. Thomas P. Sculco, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeons-in-Chief Emeriti Hospital for Special Surgery
        $(6$)NICHOLAS--Dr. James. ''Doc'', our most special friend; always there for us. You will forever live in our hearts. All our love to your beloved Kiki and wonderful family. Victor and Susan Shedlin
      