
        NICHOLAS--James A., Dr. 85, died peacefully at home on Saturday, July 15, 2006. Devoted husband of 54 years to Kiki and wonderful father to Philip, Stephen and Nicole. Adored grandfather to nine grandchildren; a brilliant and humble man with a great capacity for love and an unforgettable smile. He will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, 7-9pm. Funeral services to be held Friday, July 21st at the Holy Trinity Greek Cathedral at 10am, 319 E. 74 St. In his memory donations may be made to the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital, 130 E 77 St. NY, NY 10021 $(6$)NICHOLAS--James A., M.D. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital are profoundly saddened by the loss of Dr. James A. Nicholas. As Director of Orthopedic Surgery for almost a quarter of a century, he used his broad vision of medicine to bring our Department to the forefront of Sports Medicine and Orthopedic. Surgery. Dr. Nicholas was nationally recognized for his unique and insightful views of the medical issues facing modern professional and recreational athletes. A founding member of the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine, elected to the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine Hall of Fame, a prolific author and co-editor of a leading textbook on the subject, and an instrumental force behind the first White House Symposium on Physical Fitness and Sports, he will be deeply missed by his friends, colleagues and patients. Our most sincere condolences to his wife Kiki; his sons Dr. Stephen Nicholas and Philip, his daughter Nicole Hambro, and his entire famuily. Chitranjan Ranawat, M.D. Chairman, Orthopedic Surgery Elliott B. Hershman, M.D., Vice Chairman, Orthopedic Surgery $(6$)NICHOLAS--James A., M.D. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the entire Lenox Hill Hospital community mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague. During his 60 years at Lenox Hill Hospital, Dr. Nicholas, a revered physician who gave unstintingly of himself, led the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and founded the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma, the first hosptial based center for sports medicine in the country. A giant in the field, Dr. Nicholas was a charismatic physician loved and admired by his patients; a sage and insightful clinician respected by his colleagues; and a highly regarded lecturer, educator and researcher. As the modern day pioneer of sports medicine, his contributions to the world of athletics have helped make sports participation safer and more enjoyable for the professional and amateur athlete alike, and has enabled Lenox Hill Hospital to achieve worldwide recognition in this important field. Dr. Nicholas will be remembered for his extraordinary leadership, professionalism and commitment to medical excellence, research and education. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Kiki; sons Dr. Stephen Nicholas and Philip; daughter Nicole Hambro; and his entire family. William O. Hiltz, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President and CEO Chitranjan Ranawat, M.D., President, Medical Board Norman Schulman, M.D., President, Physicians Attending Association $(6$)NICHOLAS--James, M.D. On July 15, 2006. The Hess family is deeply saddened and mourns the loss of their dear friend, Dr. Jim Nicholas. He was a great man, a great friend and a great doctor who was part of our extended family for more than 50 years. Leon Hess was very proud to be involved in establishing the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital. Our family sends their heartfelt condolences to his beautiful and beloved wife, Kiki; his son Philip, his son Stephen and wife, Eileen, his daughter Nicole and husband, Charles and nine beloved grandchildren. We loved him deeply and will miss him enormously. Norma Hess Susan and John Hess Connie and Sankey Williams Marlene Hess and Jim Zirin $(6$)NICHOLAS--Dr. James. ''Doc'', our most special friend; always there for us. You will forever live in our hearts. All our love to your beloved Kiki and wonderful family. Victor and Susan Shedlin
      