
        BULLOUGH--Vern. Vern Bullough a life long champion of civil liberties recently died. He worked for justice through his research and writing and with his associations with groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and the NAACP. He spent many years working to improve housing equal opportunities for all people. He was a strong believer in the separation of church and state and was an active humanist. SUNY Distinguished Professor emeritus and former dean of the Faculty of Natural and Social Sciences at Buffalo State, Vern L. Bullough, R.N., Ph.D., was a pioneer in many fields from the study of the cultural and biological aspects of human sexuality to the effectiveness of military deterrence. Vern Bullough has received numerous awards for his activism and scholarship, including the 1995 Alfred Kinsey Award, of which he was co-recipient with his late wife, Dr. Bonnie Bullough, former dean of the School of Nursing at the University at Buffalo. He has served as co-president of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, and is a past president of the Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality and a founder of the American Association for the History of Nursing. Vern Bullough was a distinguished scholar in many fields. Using G.I. Bill benefits after being in the army, he received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Utah. He then went on to receive his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. As a professor he taught at University of Youngstown; California State University Northridge; and the State University of New York at Buffalo. The author, coauthor, or editor of more than 50 books, Vern Bullough has also contributed chapters to more than 100 publications and has written hundreds of refereed and popular articles. As a middle aged student he studied Nursing at California State University Long Beach. He received many prestigious awards, grants and fellowships. Vern has lectured in most of the 50 states and more than 25 countries, including Australia, China, Egypt, Ghana, Greece, Mexico, and Russia. Vern's death was preceded by his brother Bert Bullough; his son David Bullough; his sister-in-law Janice Neumann Bullough; and his partner of over 50 years Bonnie Bullough. He is survived by his brothers and sister: Darwin Bullough, Duane Bullough, Karen Hyde and their families; his sons Jim Bullough-Latsch, Michel Hayworth, Steve Bullough, his daughter Sue Bullough; his partner since 1998 Gwen Whitehead Brewer; and most importantly his granddaughter Jamie Bullough-Latsch. Vern is also the contributor to several scholarship funds and encouraged the support of libraries, lectureships and the preservation of liberties. His web site www.vernbullough.com lists some of the organizations he recently donated to. His papers and the Vern and Bonnie Bullough Special Collection are housed at California State University Northridge Oviatt Library www.csun.edu . Vern Bullough felt that a citizen had the duty to vote and had the duty to contribute time and efforts to improve the overall quality of life for all beings without regard to race, gender, religion, handicaps, ethnic origins, or sexuality orientation. He dedicated his life to these beliefs.
      