
        WORGAN--David S., Esq. Age 94 of Little Compton, RI formerly of New York City, NY died Monday, July 3, 2006 at his residence. He was the husband of the late Judge Florence M. Kelley. Born in New York City son of the late Emmanuel Worgan and the late Rose (Wein) Worgan. He was a 1929 graduate of Morris High School, a 1933 graduate of City College of CCNY with a Bachelor Degree of Science, a 1936 graduate of Columbia Law School with an L.L.B. Degree. In 1938 he began his career in the District Attorney's office in New York County, as an assistant district attorney, launching a 43 year career. For the first 17 years he moved through a succession of Bureau's, including serving as Chief of the Indictment Bureau. He conducted a wide variety of investigations and trials, including several involving Maritime crimes, naval matters being one of his great interests. In fact, he is an Associate member of the U.S. Naval Institute. In 1955 Mr. Worgan became Executive Assistant District Attorney, a position he would hold until his retirement in 1981. In that position, he controlled the machinery of the office, was the nerve center for the transmission of the District Attorney's orders and responsible for seeing to it that they were carried out. In addition, he represented the District Attorney's office in the critical area of budget hearings and in sensitive labor negotiations. He also served as acting District Attorney on a number of occasions. Throughout his career Mr. Worgan was active in the NYC Bar Association, serving on numerous committees and in particular, working in those areas dealing with the Administration of Criminal Justice. He served as well on the Appellate Division Special Committee on the Jury System. He was appointed by the Governor to the Juvenile Justice Advisory Board, to succeed District Attorney Morgenthau. Generous in sharing his experience, he appeared as a guest lecturer at the Practicing Law Institute, John Jay College and the Police Department. He was a member of the American Bar Association and was an active member of the New York City Bar Association serving as Chairman of the Admissions Committee. He was a member of the Executive Committee, Admissions Committee, Criminal Courts Committee, Nominating Committee and Special Committee to survey problems and needs of the Administration of Criminal Justice. He was also a member of the Sakonnet Yacht Club and Golf Club in Rhode Island, a member of the Board of Directors for the Friends of Sakonnet Light House. He was a former member of the Board of Directors of New York Society for the deaf, and a former member of the board of councilors for Girls Town. Surviving are one brother Seymour Barry Worgan of Deerfield Beach, FL; three nieces Susan Kelley of West Virginia, Deborah Kelley of Providence, RI, Martha Weisman of Levittown, NY; two nephews Andrew Worgan of Kings Park, NY, Nicholas M. Kelley of Brookline, MA and a sister-in-law the late Margaret Kelley and brother-inlaw the late Nicholas Kelley of Little Compton, RI. When history remembers with approval the New York County District Attorney's Office, a large measure of credit must be given to David Worgan, a fine lawyer, a loyal colleague, an outstanding public servant and a splendid gentleman. His Funeral was held on Friday, July 7, 2006 at 10:00 AM at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY. Burial was in the Mount Zion Cemetery, Maspeth, NY. For information: Waring - Sullivan Home of Memorial Tribute at Cherry Place, 178 Winter St, Fall River, MA
      