
        BRENNAN--Bernard P., Ph.D. born on April 30, 1918 of Brooklyn Heights passed away on July 11th at the age of 88. Beloved son of Margaret and Michael Brennan form County Longford in Ireland. He attended St. Teresa of Avila Grade School in Brooklyn, class of 1932 and graduated from Cathedral Seminary High School in 1936. He earned BA, Master's and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from Fordham University. Dr. Brennan was Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Pace University where he taught for over 50 years. He was a nationally recognized authority on American philosopher William James, having authored two books on the subject, William James and The Ethics of William James during his tenure at Pace. Affectionately known as 'Bernie' and'Buzz' to his many friends and large extended family, he is survived by his sisters Helen Marr (husband Luke), Frances Hurley, (husband Bob) Joan Shannon (husband Joseph) and by brother Peter Brennan (wife Anne). He was predeceased by loving brother William Brennan (wife Mildred) and sister Margaret O'Brien (husband Joe). Survived by many cousins living here and in Ireland. Buzz was a loving uncle and friend to 24 nieces and nephews and 33 grand nieces and nephews. He was a loyal neighbor and devoted friend to all who knew him in Brooklyn Heights, especially his crew at the Heights Cafe. Dr. Brennan was a supporter of many civic, community and charitable organizations throughout his life, including The Society of Old Brooklynites, The Brooklyn Bird Club, St. Teresa of Avila Alumni Association, The Brooklyn Museum, The Brooklyn Botanic Gardens and the National Audubon Society. One of his nieces said every time she hears or sees a bird she will think of Uncle Buzz. Bernie loved to spend time with family and friends, whether in Brooklyn, Califon, NJ, Roxbury, NY or on Long Island. He loved to talk, laughand eat! He was, without a doubt, everyone's favorite uncle. His generous soul and supportive spirit will be missed by all of those who were fortunate enough to have had him in their lives. Truly, may be rest in peace. Reposing at Macken Funeral Home, 52 Clinton Ave., Rockville Centre, NY. Visiting hours are 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 Wednesday and Thursday. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at St. Agnes Cathedral, 20 Quealy Place, Rockville Centre, NY on Friday, July 14th 10 am. Interment at Holy Cross Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made to the Brooklyn Botanic Gardens, 1000 Washington Ave., Brooklyn, NY 11225 or the Monastery of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, 361 Highland Blvd., Brooklyn, NY 11207.
      