
        EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Kathy, Samara and Adam, Ilana and Jim, Jason, Joey and Ben. The world is dimmer, having lost one of its brightest stars. Fred gave healing, hope and inspiration to us and countless patients and their families. In our darkest days he always carried the light. These last five years he set a new standard for personal dignity, courage and grace. His larger-thanlife humanity will live on and always shine brightly in our hearts. Patricia and Alan B. Abramson
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred, M.D. The Board of DIrectors, Staff, Volunteers , children and families ot The Ronald McDonald House of New York, Inc., deeply regret the passing of its long time Board Member and friend of The House. The Ronald McDonald House would like to formally acknowledge Dr. Epstein's many years of service and contributions. To the organization as well, as the thousands of youths he medically treated with compassion and excellence. We express our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kathy, and the entire Epstein family. Michael Hegarty, Chairman of The Board William T. Sullivan, President and CEO The Ronald McDonald House of New York, Inc
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred J., MD. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with profound sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Fred J. Epstein, MD, founding director of Beth Israel's Hyman-Newman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery (INN). Fred joined us in 1996 with a vision to create a most unique program, grounded in the most advanced neuroscience clinical practice, but one that also placed at the core of its mission, the emotional, psychosocial, and spiritual needs of our patients and their families. We are so proud to have been his partners in the creation of the INN; it will stand as a testimonial to our shared commitment to the highest quality, most compassionate patient care. To his beloved wife Kathy, his wonderful children and family, and all who grieve for the loss of this great man, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Boards of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum Gail F. Donovan Executive VP and COO Continuum David J. Shulkin, MD President and CEO Beth Israel Richard F. Daines, MD President and CEO St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital
        $(6$)EPSTEIN--Fred J., MD. It is with great sadness and extraordinarily heavy hearts that the physicians, nurses and staff of the Hyman-Newman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery (INN) of Beth Israel Medical Center and Roosevelt Hospital acknowledge the passing of our beloved founder and partner, respected mentor and dear friend, Fred J. Epstein, MD. Many of us joined Fred in the quest to establish the INN as a special and unique place of hope and comfort for patients and families dealing with the most serious neurological illnesses. Whether it was performing the most delicate neurosurgical procedure or holding the hand of a child, a parent who had just lost a child, or any of us in our grief, he set an example of care and compassion that we all will hold forever in our hearts. Our profound admiration for Fred grew as he faced personal and physical challenges these past few years. Our condolences to his wife and partner in life, Kathy, his children and all of his family, friends and admirers--of which there were so many. Words simply cannot express how sad we feel at this time. Morton P. Hyman Robert G. Newman, MD Alex J. Berenstein, MD Director, INN
      