
        KETCHAM--William Tred well Jr. The U.S. Section of the Jesters Club mourns the loss of our national representative and former President. USSRA President from 19651967. Recipient of the USSRA President's Club 1969. Seven time National Veterans Squash Doubles Champion. Former MSRA President. Beloved Friend and a Great Sportsman.
        $(6$)KETCHAM--William T., Jr. We are deeply saddened by the death of our distinguished member who served as Vice President for 30 years. In his youth he demonstrated great valor on the battlefield. His capacity for friendship was boundless, and we will miss his wise counsel. We express our heartfelt sympathy to hIs family. The Governors and Members of The Brook.
        $(6$)KETCHAM -- William Tred well, Jr. died at home in Lawrence, Long Island, on July 18, 2006 after a long illness. He was 86. Born on August 2nd, 1919, he was the son of Mr. and Mrs. William T. Ketcham. He attended the Lawrence School, the Hill School, and Yale, Class of '41. During World War II he served for five years in the United States Marine Corps and as company commander of Company One, Third Battalion, in the 24th Regiment. He won the Navy Cross for heroism leading his men off the beach at Iwo Jima ''with complete disregard for his own safety'' and in spite of serious wounds. After the War Treddy attended Yale Law School, joined the foreign service and spent several years in London as the special assistant to the chairman of NATO. Returning to New York he joined the firm of Davis, Polk and Wardwell and was then hired as special counsel at IBM, where he worked until his retirement in 1984. An outstanding athlete, Treddy won dozens of national and club championships in squash and tennis, was a past president of the United States Squash Racquets Association and a longtime director of the International Lawn Tennis Club. His many other board memberships included the St. Nicholas Society (of which he was a past President), the Riot Relief Fund, and the Society of Colonial Wars of New York State. A man of exceptional good cheer, Treddy was the quintessential club man, the longest serving president of the Rockaway Hunting Club, longtime vicepresident of The Brook, U.S. representative of the Jesters, and a member of the Racquet and Tennis Club, the Lawrence Beach Club, the Cedarhurst Yacht Club, and the Saratoga Reading Rooms. He was predeceased by his brother and sister-inlaw, James B. and Ira D. Ketcham, and his niece, Laurie C. Ketcham, earlier this year. He is survived by his nephew, George B. Ketcham, and his nieces, Susan K. Coffin and Brucie K. Donahue. In addition he is survived by his nephews-in-law Lloyd H. Coffin, III and Thomas Donahue, and his niece-in-law Mimi Ketcham. A funeral service will be held at Trinity-St. John Church in Hewlett, New York on Friday, July 21, at 11 AM, and there will be a memorial service in New York City in the fall. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the William T. Ketcham, Jr Fund at the Hills School, 717 East High Street, Pottstown, PA 19464.
        $(6$)KETCHAM--William T., Jr. The Saint Nicholas Society is saddened by the death of its former President, William T. Ketcham, Jr., and expresses its condolences to his family. John McC. Shannon, Pres. Robert A. Naud, Secretary
      