
        BRODSKY--Nathan. The Marx Family and staff of The Savon Wash Corporation note with deep regret the passing of our friend and associate Nathan. His dignity, caring and advice shall be sorely missed by all who knew him. We send our heartfelt sympathies to Dan and the rest of the Brodsky family. The Marx Family Savon Wash Corporation
        $(6$)BRODSKY--Nathan. As a partner of the Brodsky Organization and family friend, I send my most heartfelt sympathy. Sincerest condolences to Dan and the entire family. Joseph T. Comras
        $(6$)BRODSKY--Nathan ''Jon'', Husband, Father, Grandfather, and Great-Grandfather, passed away Thursday, July 27th, 2006. A mentor to many, and a role model for those who knew him well, he will be very sorely missed. Jon founded a real estate development company which grew from a small office in the West Village to a business with his son, Daniel, that exceeded all of his expectations, and which is continued with his grandsons. Both modest and generous, he was also an enthusiastic cellist, president and member of the Center Orchestra, and a great supporter of music programs that ranged from providing instruments to children at public schools to endowing the cellist chair of Qiang Tu at the New York Philharmonic. Jon served in the Armed Forces during World War II. He loved basketball and tennis, the Brooklyn Dodgers, hot dogs, and chocolate cake; but most of all he enjoyed spending time with his family, especially his wife of 68 years, Shirley. He will be greatly missed by his wife Shirley, his children Daniel and Thea, his daughter-in-law Estrellita, his son-in-law Asad, his grandchildren Hady, Tam, Dean, Alexander, Katy, and Thomas, his granddaughters-inlaw Amira and Kate and his great-grandson Tarek. He is survived by his sister and brother-in law, Ruth and Ray Leopold, his sister-in-law Jean Bobick, as well as his nephews and nieces: Susan, Julian and Debbie, Bob and Alisson, Jane, Paul, Gabriel, Eugene, Julie, Carl, and Beth. Interment will be private; a memorial service will be held at the Kaplan Penthouse at Lincoln Center, located on the 10 th floor of the Rose Building, on 65th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenues, New York City, on Monday, July 31, 2006, promptly at 11:00 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Very Young People's Concert Program at the New York Philharmonic, (212) 875-5381, www.nyphil.org.
        $(6$)BRODSKY -- Nathan. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP mourn the untimely passing our client, Nathan Brodsky. Our deepest sympathy goes to his widow, Shirley, his children Dan and wife, Estrellita, and Thea and her husband, Asad, his grandchildren and the entire Brodsky family. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP
        $(6$)BRODSKY--Nathan. The employees of The Brodsky Organization deeply mourn the passing of its founder and leader, Nathan Brodsky, a teacher and mentor to many and known by all for his personal attention and caring about them and their families. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Brodsky Family. The Employees of the Brodsky Organization
        $(6$)BRODSKY -- Nathan. We mourn the passing of Nathan Brodsky, our long-standing fellow realtor and friend. Over the 50 years of doing business together we have enjoyed a warm working relationship. We will certainly miss his friendship, and send our sincere condolences to his entire family. Norman Buchbinder Eugene Warren
        $(6$)BRODSKY--Nathan. Friend, neighbor and golf partner. Nathan, we will deeply miss you and mourn your absence. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Shirley. Our sincere condolences also go to his son, Dan, his daughter-in-law, Estrellita, and the rest of the Brodsky family. Lorraine & Herbert Podell
        $(6$)BRODSKY--Nathan. A great man who set an example for us all by living his life of accomplishment with humility, kindness and generosity. Our heaftfelt condolences to Shirley, Dan, Estrellita and the entire Brodsky family. Louise Sunshine and Martin Begun
      