
        GAIR--Harriet E. 100, died at home on July 11, 2006. Harriet E. Gair had been an important figure in New York's legal structure for six decades. Her road to success was paved by performance and character. Harriet's trek to her leadership in the legal profession began at the age of fifteen, when she went to work for her late husband, the noted trial lawyer Harry A. Gair, in order to sustain herself and her family, and, at the same time attended high school in the evenings. She earned her high school diploma from the George Washington Evening High School. She continued her education at Washington Square College, at night, earning her Bachelors Degree in 1938. Harriet went on to New York University School of Law, after her marriage to Harry A. Gair, dean of the negligence bar. She received her LLB from the law school in 1940 and was thereafter admitted to the Bar of the State of New York. In 1945 she became a partner in the law firm of Harry A. Gair, which was thereafter known as Gair and Gair. Harriet was in full charge of the management of the firm while her husband continued to achieve eminence in the field of trial practice. The firm continues to the present as Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf. Even with the burdens of major law office partnership, Harriet was a worthy President of the New York Womens Bar Association; President of the Putnam Valley Free Library Board of Trustees; President of the Mid-Hudson Library System; a member of the Town Board of Putnam Valley, and a Town Justice of the Town of Putnam Valley from 1976 to 1981, having been elected to that post by popular acclaim. Her guidance, wisdom and compassion will be missed by her family and all who knew her. Wife of the late Harry A. Gair, Harriet is survived by sons Anthony and Roger, stepsons Donald and Ellwood, and stepdaughter Barbara Schieber. She is also survived by 30 grandchildren and great grandchildren, including Daniel A. Gair, a New York lawyer at Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf.The funeral service will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 331 Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street, telephone number (212) 362-6600, on Thursday, July 13, 2006 at 1:15 pm. In lieu of flowers, donations to the New York University School of Law would be appreciated.
        $(6$)GAIR--Harriet E. The partners, associates, and entire staff deeply mourn the loss of the beloved co-founder of our firm, Harriet E. Gair. For all of her 100 years, she embodied the best of everything. She began working at the firm at the age of 15, and when she received her law degree from NYU 66 years ago, she was one of the first women to do so. For most of her life, she was our managing partner, but more importantly, she touched and inspired each of our personal lives. The legal profession has lost one of its pioneers and giants, but we have lost our leader and our friend. We extend our profound sympathies to her entire family and especially to her son and our partner, Anthony Gair, and to her grandson and our associate, Daniel Gair. Gair, Gair, Conason, Steigman & Mackauf
      