
        KLION--Herbert To our dearest friend Herbert, you were always there for me and our family. We shall miss you forever. Rest in Peace. Love Mona, Felix, Andrew, Sarah and Jamie. $(6$)KLION--Herbert. The Koenig Family extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Herbert Klion, our dearest friend. Without him introducing us we would not have happened. Betty and Gill, Emily and Hank, Barbara and Jim, Peggy and David, and all our grandchildren. We will always remember you. $(6$)KLION--Herbert. The Board of Governors, and the Members of Fenway Golf Club, record with profound sorrow, the passing of Herbert Klion, a member of the Club for 11 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary $(6$)KLION--Herbert. Best friend and devoted husband of the late Beverly. Loving father of Jane, Nancy and Howard. Beloved father-in-law of Richard, Amy and Mitchell. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Hannah, Allison, Jessica, Noah, Myles, Madeline and Bella. Loving companion of Cherie. Services at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave., White Plains, NY, Wednesday, July 19, 10AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Lung Failure Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital, c/o Dr. Byron Thomashow, New York Presbyterian Hospital, 161 Fort Washington Avenue, NY, NY 10032. $(6$)KLION--Herbert. A true gentleman, a man of integrity who gave of himself, to all. He created love all around him and a piece of my heart shall always be with him. Cherie $(6$)KLION--Herbert. Dad, you will be deeply missed. You have left a hole in our hearts that no amount of surgery can ever repair. You fought this battle like the others, with interminable will, determination and grace. You will always be remembered and loved by those lives you touched. The world was a better place while you were here. We will carry on with the values of caring, love and family that you instilled in each and every one of us. We all love you very much. Jane, Howard, Nancy, Richard, Amy, Mitch, Benjamin, Hannah, Noah, Allison, Jessica, Myles, Madeline, Bella
      