
        NYTZEN--Jan Malte, an international business consultant and resident of New YorkCity and Bridgehampton, died unexpectedly July 12, 2006 in San Francisco. He was 71. Born in Southern Sweden, Mr. Nytzen graduated from Helsingborg College of Commerce, and obtained an MBA degree from the Stockholm School of Economics, followed by post-graduate studies at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia University. Mr. Nytzen began a long career with the Volvo Group of Companies in Gothenburg,Sweden. In the early 1960s, he moved to Toronto, and then to San Francisco, Houston and Honolulu to help establish the company in North America, returning in 1970 to Toronto to become President of Volvo Canada, Ltd. In 1974, Mr. Nytzen moved to New Jersey to become Executive Vice President of Volvo North America, where he was instrumental in the company's expansion into the heavy truck, marine engine, and sporting equipment business. After more than 20 years with Volvo, he left the company in the late 1970s to become President of Linden-Alimark, Inc., a leading Swedish manufacturer of vertical access equipment for the construction industry. Subsequently, Mr. Nytzen became involved in real estate development, independent business ventures, and international business consulting with various partners. He served as a Principal with Hammond Management Consulting, an international management consulting services firm, for the last ten years. He was formerly President of the Board and a Trustee of the Saddle River Day School, and a member of the Board of Trustees of Ramapo College, both in New Jersey. Additionally, he was active in the Swedish-American Chamber of Commerce and the American-Scandinavian Society in New York City. He is survived by his companion, Kari Easton of New York and Bridgehampton;his sons Peter and Michael of Los Angeles; sisters Christin Dick, Lena Lundquist and Annika Pettersson; a brother Fredrik, and their families. A Memorial Service will be held on Tuesday, July 25, in New York City
      