
        ADDINGTON--Anne, Ph. D.Age 68, died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT on June 10th after living with Multiple Sclerosis for 12 years. A native of Lake Forest, IL, she was the daughter of the late James R. Addington and Sarah Wood Armour, who survives her, as does her brother Whitney W. Addington, MD. Her brother Keene H. Addington predeceased her. Her beloved grandparents were General and Mrs. Robert E. Wood. General Wood was Chief Quartermaster during the building of the Panama Canal, later becoming President and Chairman of Sears Roebuck & Co. For a woman who never married nor had children, Dr. Addington had a huge family. She has eleven nieces and nephews and fifteen godchildren, and all their children consider Anne a grandparent. Anne attended Ethel Walker School and Smith College, graduating with a BA in Economics in 1959, and then earned her Ph.D. in Psychology from NYU. She served her patients, primarily children, with empathy and wisdom throughout her life. Anne loved sports, competing ferociously in squash, tennis and golf. She attended four Summer and two Winter Olympiads, but nothing thrilled her more than tennis. She attended each of the four Grand Slams and was a season ticket holder at the US Open. Despite deteriorating health, Anne remained a fixture at the US Open, able to walk and talk her way into any match or front row seat. Music was another passion of Anne's, especially opera. She was a Wagner enthusiast who experienced The Ring Cycle in numerous venues including Bayreuth. Anne studied opera for many years with conductor Robert Bass and frequently invited friends to join her Saturday afternoon excursions to The Met. Anne was a true original, a lover of life with a keen intellect and quick wit. Her homes were full of light, art, books and various pets, primarily large, undisciplined dogs. She approached the world with absolute openness, abundant curiosity and a deep compassion and respect for each of its citizens. Her numerous and varied friends, of all ages and walks of life, will never forget her. A memorial service is planned for Sept. 30th at the NY Historical Society. In lieu of flowers, donations to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society at 733 Third Avenue, NY, NY 10017 are deeply appreciated.
      