
        RYNNE--Trinka Davis. Formerly of Akron, Ohio, passed away Thursday, August 17 in the New York Presbyterian Hospital where pneumonia and congestive heart failure claimed her life. Trinka was graduated from The Mt. Vernon School For Girls in Washington, D.C. and attended Briarcliff College. She has lived most of her adult life in New York City. Most recently, she lived in The Waldorf Towers in an apartment previously rented by Frank Sinatra. Her love of art and flowers--especially orchids, made her home a place of beauty and interest. Trinka inherited Trintex Corporation, from her family, in the 1970's. The Company has been a manufacturer of semi-pneumatic tire assemblies for the lawn & garden and toy industries. Unfortunately, on Friday, October 13, 1978, a fire destroyed most of the equipment. Against the advice of her financial advisors, she was adamant about rebuilding the company. She saved over 300 jobs and created much love and loyalty with her employees. The Company enjoyed much success becoming the leader in its industry. But Trinka was still not satisfied. She wanted more growth and founded Intertex World Resources, Ltd., located in Akron, Ohio in January 1990. Intertex has grown to become one of the largest worldwide traders in synthetic rubber. Its Moscow, Russia office imports thousands of tons of rubber each year into the U.S. Both companies have been tremendous successes. Since she took charge, sales have grown from five million to nearly one hundred million in 2004. Trinka sold the Bowdon operation to Carlisle Tire and Wheel, Inc. in June 2004. Her volunteer interests centered on the blind, and she had great interest in helping wounded veterans and their families, along with numerous other charities. Trinka loved to travel and had devoted friends all over the world. She is survived by her brother, Poncet Davis Jr. of Bal Harbour, Florida,, and cousins Cindy Stillman of Hector, New York, Robbie Stillman of Akron, Ohio and William Russell of Palm Beach, Florida. Services will be held on Tuesday, 10:30 A.M., at the Billow Fairlawn Chapel, 85 N. Miller Rd., with burial to follow at Rose Hill Burial Park. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to ''The Trinka Davis Foundation'', a charitable foundation organized to provide financial assistance to disabled and deceased veterans and their families. Please send in care of ''Hughes & Scalise, P.C.'', The Luckie Building, 600 Luckie Drive, Suite 405, Birmingham, AL. 35223. A private memorial service will be held at a later date.
      