
        ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. The Board, staff and students of TEAK Fellowship mourn the loss of Dr. Alice Stone Ilchman, an incredible friend ..to our community. Justine Stamen Arrillaga, Founder, TEAK Fellowship
        $(6$)ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. With profound sorrow, Sarah Lawrence College mourns the loss of President Emerita Alice Stone Ilchman. Her steadfast leadership of the College from 1981 to 1998 marked a watershed period, during which was established a curriculum rich in international studies and infused with global perspectives. Her insistence that science take its rightful place as a cornerstone of the Sarah Lawrence curriculum resulted in the building of a science center, now named in her honor, and the development of an outstanding faculty, not just in the hard sciences but also in the history and philosophy of science. Her dedication to the arts ensured that the College's original, humanistic mission would endure. Alice was a model of compassion, graciousness and goodness for all whom she met. She will be remembered always for her love of the beauty to be found on our earth. We extend our deepest sympathy to Alice's family: her husband, Warren, who supportively shouldered the duties of a college president's spouse while a university president himself; her son, Frederick, who carried on in her aesthetic spirit to become a curator at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts; and her daughter, Sarah, who manages Fulbright programs at the Institute of International Education, continuing Alice's commitment to international understanding. We join all those whose lives are richer for having known Alice in saluting the memory of a truly great woman. Michele Tolela Myers, President Barbara Kaplan, Dean of the College Robert Riggs, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
        $(6$)ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. PBS and its member stations mourn the passing of Alice Stone Ilchman, a member of the PBS Board of Directors and our dear friend. Alice's public spirit and devotion to education made her an invaluable member of the board, which she joined in 2000 as a representative of WNET in New York. Alice made a key contribution to the board as the chair of the compensation committee and as a longtime member of the education committee, including a term as its vice chair. Last year, she played a special role as the co-chair of the search committee for the selection of the PBS President. We will miss her wisdom, grace and commitment to civil society. We extend our deep condolences to Alice's husband, Warren, and their children, Frederick and Sarah, and to her relatives, friends and many admirers. Mary G.F. Bitterman, Chairman of the Board Paula A. Kerger, President and Chief Executive Officer
      