
        WEINBERG--John L. The Board and Staff of the Greater New York Councils , Boy Scouts of America mourns the passing of John L. Weinberg, our long time friend and generous supporter. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. He will be missed. John C. Whitehead, Chairman John F. McGillicuddy, Pres Charles E. Rosser, CEO
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L.The Board of Trustees and Staff of the New York Historical Society are greatly saddened by the passing of John. L. Weinberg, husband of Trustee Sue Ann Weinberg. We will miss his keen intelligence and wit. Nancy Newcomb Board Co-Chairs Louise Mirrer President and CEO
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L. The community and friends ofTeachers College, Columbia University, are deeply saddened by the loss of John L. Weinberg, former Trustee and longtime friend of the College. A giant in the financial world and a paragon of good governance, John was also a humanitarian who embraced and embodied the ideal of civic and social responsibility by the private sector. Our condolences to his wife, Sue Ann, a TC alumna and current Trustee; to their two children, John and Jean; and to their five grandchildren. Susan H. Fuhrman, President John W. Hyland and William D. Rueckert, Co-Chairs, Board of Trustees Teachers College, Columbia University
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L. The Trustees, Life Trustees, Physicians and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our dear friend and Trustee, John L. Weinberg. A stalwart supporter of the Hospital for more than 45 years, he lent his uncommon wisdom and leadership skills to the goal of furthering our mission of excellence in patient care. He was deeply involved in numerous areas, his pragmatic business style providing enormous and lasting benefit to NewYork-Presbyterian. Together with his wife, Sue Ann, he helped create the Sue and John L. Weinberg Cystic Fibrosis Center, the Sue and John L. Weinberg Inpatient Rehabilitation Medicine Center, and the Sue and John L. Weinberg Medical Intensive Care Unit. The Weinberg family has demonstrated unique and long-standing loyalty and service to the Hospital, beginning with Johns father, the late Sidney J. Weinberg, who served on the board of The Presbyterian Hospital. His brother, Sidney J. Weinberg Jr., and his son, John S. Weinberg, continue to serve as Life Trustee and Hospital Trustee, respectively. Business leader, philanthropist and gentleman, John L. Weinberg's remarkable intellect, warm sensitivity and generous support will forever be remembered by all who benefit from care received at the Hospital he loved. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Sue Ann, and the entire Weinberg family.John J. Mack, Chairman, Board of Trustees Daniel B. Burke, Chairman Emeritus Maurice R. Greenberg, Chairman Emeritus John F. McGillicuddy, Chairman Emeritus Dr. Herbert Pardes, President & CEO Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Vice Chairman Charlotte M. Ford, Vice Chairman Peter A. Georgescu, Vice Chairman Jerry I. Speyer, Vice Chairman NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the loss of John L. Weinberg, their good friend and the beloved husband of the Library's Trustee, Sue Ann Weinberg. John will be remembered for his great leadership in the world of business and finance and for his generous philanthropy in the fields of education, health care and human services. We are extremely grateful for John and Sue Ann's exceptional support for the Library. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to Sue Ann, their children and grandchildren. Brooke Russell Astor, Honorary Chairwoman Catherine C. Marron, Chairwoman Samuel C. Butler, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of John L. Weinberg, a treasured friend whose deep commitment and boundless generosity strengthened our ability to serve those in need and enriched our initiatives in New York, Israel, and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Sue Ann; his son, John; his daughter, Jean; his brother, Jimmy; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)WEINBERG--John L. The Board and staff of Young Audiences express our profound sympathies to our devoted board member, Sue Ann Weinberg and her family on the death of her husband, John. He was a remarkable man and he will be greatly missed. Board of Directors & Staff of Young Audiences, Inc.
      