
        MANN--Ellery Wilson, Jr. Peacefully passed away on August 25, 2006 in Garden City, New York. He was born in Mineola, New York on October 22, 1922, lived in Garden City for over 50 years, and moved to Vero Beach, Florida in 1989. Ellery, widower of cherished Patricia Paula (nee McDermott), to whom he was married for 58 years, is survived by his devoted children: Beth Elliott and Deborah Belica, both of Garden City; Nancy Mann of Stewart Manor, New York; Ellery Mann III of Lindenhurst, New York; and Mary Ellen Burrell of New City, New York. In addition, he is survived by his loving sons-in-law, daughter-inlaw, twelve grandchildren, and a great grandchild on the way. Ellery attended Columbia University, New York. He was proud to be a Marine, and in world War II served with The First Division at Gualdalcanal. Ellery succeeded at widely varied careers: he was Advertising VP at Tampax (Tambrands), a company founded by his father; publisher of Rudder boating magazine; stock broker at Merrill Lynch; and original owner of Food for Thought in Garden City. In his retirement he cared for the sick and elderly as an AMT and volunteer at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, and the VNA of Vero Beach, as well as writing The Guide to Vero Beach and other short stories. He expressed his adventurous spirit through piloting, fishing and his unique sense of hummor. Ellery was a member of the Unity Center of Vero Beach, and the Community Church of Garden City, as well as a former member of Dodger Pines Country Club of Vero Beach, and Cherry Valley Country Club of Garden City. A memorial service will be held on September 2 at 2 PM at the Garden City Community Church (245 Stewart Avenue, Garden City, New York), and on September 9 at 2:30 PM at the Unity Center of Vero Beach (950 43rd Avenue, Vero Beach, Florida). In lieu of flowers, the family requests a donation to the Good Shepherd Hospice (4747-20 Nesconset Highway, Port Jefferson Station, NY 11776, Attention - Development Office). Information: Fairchild Sons Funeral Home in Garden City.
      