
        FISHER--Richard L. We were blessed to share your wisdom, philosophy, and moments of personal happiness. The family has lost a great leader and great uncle, but your strong spirit and inner strength will endure.With Love, Eric and Ken Schulman
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP extend their deepest condolences to the family of our long-time client, Richard L. Fisher. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. His wisdom, courage and spirit will live forever. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn with deep sadness the loss of Richard L. Fisher. A Vice President of the Foundation for many years Richard was honored as our Man of the Year in 1997. A most gracious, generous, philanthropic human being, his wit and intelligence knew no boundaries. Our heartfelt condolences to his mother Emily Fisher Landau, his wife, his children, brother Lester, sisters, extended family, and the employees of Fisher Bros.May you rest gently. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard. I wish to express my deepest sympathy to the entire Fisher family. Mark Glasser
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard. My cousin, my partner and my friend. You have had a deep impact in both my personal and professional life. It has been an honor to be your partner; you have been an inspiration not only to me but to all who knew you. All our love, your family. Steven, Elissa, Jamie Rose, Kyle and Natalia Fisher
        $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. We mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, beloved husband of Kristen, father of Hadley, Winston and Jessica, and Alexandra, son of Emily, brother of Irma, Lester and Candia. Senior Partner of Fisher Brothers, member of the Board of Lincoln Center, Founding Trustee and Vice Chairman of Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund; benefactor of Lincoln Center, Intrepid Museum, Fisher House Foundation. A leader in New York City real estate and a man dedicated to serving others through the arts, education and military families and veterans support. He will be greatly missed. We will keep his wife, Kristen; his children, Hadley, Winston, and his wife, Jessica, and Alexandra; his mother, Emily, and her husband, Sheldon; his sisters, Candia, and Irma, and his brother, Lester, and all the Fisher family in our thoughts and prayers.
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard. Our hearts go out to our esteemed Einstein Board member and Benefactor Emily Fisher Landau and her entire family over the loss of her beloved son. We offer our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Landau, who established the Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and was a founding member of its National Womens Division. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Allen M. Spiegel, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Residents of One Beekman Place are deeply saddened by the passing of our neighbor Richard Fisher. We are proud to have had Richard as a board member and grateful for his valuable contributions as a director. On behalf of The Board of Directors, residents and staff of our building, we wish to express our deepest condolences to the entire Fisher family. Richard will be sorely missed. Richard A. Debs, Chairman Stephen Meringoff, President Board of Directors
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The employees of the Fisher Brothers Management companies mourn the loss of our leader, a scholarly man of wit and vision. Through three decades you provided the steam for the locomotive. Our prays and deepest condolences are extended to Kristen, Emily Fisher Landau and the entire Fisher family. The Managers and Staff of the FBMC companies
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. It is with great sorrow that the Trustees and staff of the New York State Trooper Foundation ackowledge the loss of Richard Fisher. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Trustees Arnold and Steven Fisher on their loss. J. Bruce Stauffer, Chairman Elliot Hershberg, Trustee Trustees & Staff of the NYS Trooper Foundation
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Riverdale Temple mourns the loss of Richard Fisher, a respected and cherished member of one of our founding families. Our thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones. Rabbi Judith Lewis and the Congregation of Riverdale Temple
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. You brought us wisdom & whimsy. Always the educator, the strength and dignity you demonstrated over the past year was a last great lesson to all of us. A last salute. Our prayers and sympathy go out to the entire Fisher family. Jack Whalen and family
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Dad, you were the most intelligent and insightful man I have ever known. So brave, so wise, so handsome. I love you forever, Alexandra
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. You are in our thoughts and prayers. Alexandra and Laura Fisher, and Ken Lockwood
      