
        DANSKER--Jerome. Gold berg Weprin & Ustin LLP mourns the passing of our friend and client, and the dean of New York's real estate community, Jerome Dansker. Jerry was a selfmade man, rising from real estate holdings and a lending business to Chairman of the highly successful Intervest National Bank. Jerry's vision was and is an instrumental part of the vibrant real estate market. A call to Jerry often presaged the signing of a contract. Jerry's word was his bond. Integrity was his code. Many of Jerry's achievements were public, but his highest achievement and reason for living was his family - his wife, Jean, his children, and his grandchildren, to whom he was totally devoted, and to whom we extend our heartfelt condolences.
        $(6$)DANSKER--Jerome, KG Property Associates, Inc. wishes to express their heartfelt condolences to the entire Dansker family and Intervest Corporation on the passing of Jerome. He was an inspirational man we admired and appreciated. Ivy Turk Michael Hershkowitz Michael Davis
        $(6$)DANSKER--Jerome. It is with great sadness that the members of Linett Schechter Reicher & Ofsevit, LLP acknowledge the loss of our esteemed and highly respected client and friend of longstanding. His insights and contributions to the New York City real estate industry are legendary. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his wife, Jean, and his entire family. He will sorely missed.
        $(6$)DANSKER--Jerome, on August 9, 2006. Devoted husband of Jean (Kandell). Loving father of Helene Bergman, Neil and Lowell. Dear Fatherin-law of Barbara and Larry Bergman. Adoring grandfather of Jennifer, Allison, Andrew, Lisa, Tracy and Rachel. Brother of Norman and Penny Gordon. Service Friday 11:15am at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Avenue.
        $(6$)DANSKER--Jerome. Pergolis Swartz Associates, Inc. extend their heartfelt condolences to the Dansker family on Jerome's passing. Jerry was a true leader in the real estate industry whose understanding, good council and expertise were highly valued. He believed that ''Real Estate is New York and New York is Real Estate.'' Jerry, we will miss you!
      