
        WEILL--Guy A., 1914-2006. Guy Weill was born in 1914 in Zurich, Switzerland, and died August 17, 2006 at home in New York City. He is survived by his devoted wife of 63 years, Marie-Helene Bigar Weill, his loving daughters Claudia, Kathryn and Patricia Weill, his adored grandchildren Emily and Alison Goldfrank, Sam and Eli Teller and their father, Walter S.Teller, and his beloved sister, Marianne Lester. He was 92 years old. Arriving in the United States in 1938, Guy served as a captain in the U.S. Army. With his command of languages, he was assigned to the Military Intelligence Service attached to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's headquarters for interrogation of prisoners of war in Morocco, Italy and France. While a translator for the post-war team interrogating Nazi officials prior to the Nuremberg trials, Guy drew caricatures of war criminals and quizzed Goering about his preferences in art. He received a Bronze Star. Soon after World War II, he started British American House, an exclusive menswear store, which was the first to import Burberry and Aquascutum to the United States. Guy was an avid artist and collected art since he was a young man, beginning with Picasso drawings, contemporary Eu ropean painting and continuing with German Expressionists. When he came to the United States, he was emotionally liberated by the size and expressive content of the Abstract Expressionists many of whom he befriended, often trading a sketch for a raincoat. Forty years ago, Guy and his wife, Marie-H l ne, discovered Asian art when she became a lecturer at the China Institute Gallery. Self trained, his eye was legendary, as could be seen in his photographs exhibited in a one-man show in 1982 at the Asia Society, where they remain permanently on view. In 2002, Chinese paintings that the Weills collected were the subject of a memorable show, ''The Cultivated Landscape,'' at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. They were also affiliated with other institutions including Arthur M. Sackler Museum at Harvard University, Arthur M. Sackler Gallery at Smithsonian Institution and the Brooklyn Museum. His gentle nature, passion for all things beautiful and gift for friendship will be remembered as a blessing by all who knew him. Services will be held at 11am on Sunday, August 20th at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison at 81st Street in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in memory of Guy Weill to The Alzheimer's Association, New York City Chapter, 360 Lexington Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, New York 10017. $(6$)WEILL--Guy. It is with great sorrow that China Institute in America sends its heartfelt and deepest condolences to the family of Guy Weill. Guy led a monumental life and was a cherished member of the China Institute family. He will be greatly missed. Our thoughts go out to Marie-Helene and her family at this time.
      