
        HILL--Fred H. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Sylvia, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for ablessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President $(6$)HILL--Fred H., August 26, died peacefully, with his family at his side. Fred is survived by his devoted wife Sylvia White Hill. He was predeceased by his loving wife of 54 years, Meta. He was the father of his three beloved daughters, Jacqueline, Ellen and the late Yvonne. Fred was the proud grandfather of Eric, Michael and Jennifer and great grandchildren brooke and Andrew. Fred was a caring father-in-law of Peter and Allison and was fond of his step-children Diana, Laurie and John and their families. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. The family will be receiving friends Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9 pm at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Funeral services 11am Wednesday at the Park Avenue Synagogue 50 East 87 St. Entombment to follow at Mount Carmel Cemetery, Queens NY. friends and family will gather at the Hill residence on Wednesday 3-8 pm, Thursday 11-8pm and Friday11-5pm. Friends and family will gather at Jackie Geller's residence Atlantic Beach, NY on Saturday 811pm, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, 11am-9pm. $(6$)HILL--Fred H., August 26, died peacefully, with his family at his side. Fred is survived by his devoted wife Sylvia White Hill. He was predeceased by his loving wife of 54 years, Meta. He was the father of his three beloved daughters, Jacqueline, Ellen and the late Yvonne. Fred was the proud grandfather of Eric, Michael and Jennifer and great grandchildren Brooke and Andrew. Fred was a caring father-in-law of Peter and Allison and was fond of his step-children Diana, Laurie and John and their families. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. The family will be receiving friends Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9 pm at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Funeral services 11am Wednesday at the Park Avenue Synagogue 50 East 87 St. Entombment to follow at Mount Carmel Cemetery, Queens NY. Friends and family will gather at the Hill residence on Wednesday 3-8 pm, Thursday 11-8pm and Friday11-5pm. Friends and family will gather at Jackie Geller's residence Atlantic Beach, NY on Saturday 811pm, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, 11am-9pm. $(6$)HILL--Fred H., The sun has set, for the last time, for you.I will miss you terribly but I know you have taught me well, and that I will live up to your expectations and standards. Love, Elly Bear. $(6$)HILL--Fred. The passing of Fred Hill is the end of a 52 year friendship with his closest friend and business partner, Al Glick. This close bond extended beyond business, and the close personal friendship between Fred and Al, to include the entire Hill and Glick families. We mourn the loss of Fred Hill, and will sincerely miss him. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Sylvia, his daughters Jackie and Ellen, son-in-law Peter and all his grandchildren and great grandchildren.
      