
        COLLIS--Charles, a retired Fairchild Industries executive, died Sunday, August 13, 2006, after an extended struggle with cancer. Mr. Collis was born in Brooklyn, New York on August 6, 1920. He was 86 years old. He moved to Babylon, New York, graduated from Babylon High School and Brown University Class of 1942. While in college he received a reserve commission in the United States Naval Reserve and immediately after college went on active duty. While in the Navy he completed postgraduate work at MIT. He served in the Navy for 3 years. After serving in the Navy, Mr. Collis went to work for the Stratos Corporation, an affiliate of the Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corporation with a name change. During his career he headed various divisions of the Corporation including the Republic Aviation Division which resulted from Fairchild's purchase of Republic Aviation in 1965. While President of Republic, Mr. Collis was responsible for the development of the A-10 ''Warthog'' aircraft which is still in service. He retired in 1981 after 36 years with the same company. He is survived by his high school sweetheart, Margaret (nee Howell), who he married in 1942. They had two daughters, Jane Thornton of Santa Clara, California, and Joy Ziemak of Westport, Connecticut, and five grandchildren, Bryan, Elizabeth and Virginia Thornton, and Jason and Gregory Collis Ziemak. Mr. Collis was the grandson of Major General Charles H.T. Collis, a Medal of Honor winner for heroism during the battle of Fredericksburg during the Civil War. Charlie, as he was called, enjoyed golf and boating. He was a member of Southward Ho Country Club and the Babylon Yacht Club. Family and friends may visit Tuesday, 2-4:30pm only, at the Claude R. Boyd-Spencer Funeral Home, 448 W. Main St., Babylon, New York 11702. Religious service Wednesday, 10:00am, at the funeral home. Private interment to follow at Edgewood Cemetery, Bridgehampton, New York. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory can be made to Brown University, Prospect Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02912.
      