
        EMMER--Ruth. Died August 6, 2006 in Seattle, WA at the age of 85. She was preceded in death by her loving husband Martin. She is survived by son Fred, daughter Hilary, grandson Josh Gray-Emmer, granddaughters Tamar Dunn and Natasha Dunn, and sister Florence Weissman. Ruth was born, raised and spent most of her life in Brooklyn, NY. She grew up in Bensonhurst where she attended Seth Low Junior High School where she was a founding member of the Modernettes, which started out as a group of girls and developed into a group of women who stayed in touch with each other for over 50 years. Ruth and Marty were married in 1946. They were an inseparable team. They traveled extensively, driving through much of eastern United States, flying to exotic locations, and taking cruises off the beaten path. Ruth was active in B'nai B'rith, serving as president, treasurer, and recording secretary of the Marine Park chapter. She also served on the National Council of Jewish Women. Family was very important to Ruth. She founded the A-Z Cousins Club which had over 30 active members who met periodically during the year and gathered everyone together in the summer for a grand weekend in the Catskill Mountains. She loved to play Mah Jong, swim in the ocean, and spend summers at the Silver Gull Beach Club. As an avid knitter, she was generous with gifts of sweaters for the children of her friends. Ruth and Marty loved the theater and spent many wonderful summer afternoons taking their children to Broadway and Off-Broadway shows which were always followed by dinner at a different restaurant. Ruth and Marty retired to the Clearbrook community in Cranbury, NJ where they made many new friends. When their health started to fail, they moved to Seattle, WA so that they could be closer to their daughter, Hilary, who lives on Vashon Island, a short ferry ride away. Services will be at the New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY on Sunday, August 13, 2006, 11:00 AM under the direction of Mount Sinai Memorial Chapels, East Brunswick, NJ www.msmc.us
      