
        GREEN--Marion Carter. An entertainer and television personality most notably in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday, August 18, in New York City where she had lived for over 60 years. The cause was a heart attack shortly after surgery. She was 86. Born in Chicago, Illinois, on September 19, 1919, she graduated from North Park Junior College and then attended Northwestern University where she won a talent scholarship contest that sent her to New York City. Soon thereafter she was chosen to star in the U.S.O. Radio City Music Hall Revue. Upon completion of that overseas tour, she studied voice in Munich, making her operatic debut at the Vienna Staat Opera in ''Romeo and Juliet'' and going on to perform in Paris and Florence. Moving to New York, she starred in several shows at Radio City Music Hall, including three of the celebrated Easter shows there in the 1940's. She also appeared on stage in ''The Merry Widow,'' ''Rose Marie,'' ''Desert Song,'' and a longrun of ''La Vie Parisienne'' at City Center. On television, she guest-starred ten times in the first year of Milton Berle's renowned ''Texaco Star Theatre'' and for 57 weeks hosted WORTV's ''Starlit Playhouse.'' She also hosted two local New York TV quiz shows, ''Batter Up'' and ''Touchdown.'' She made frequent appearances as well on NBC-TV's ''The Buick -Berle Show.''In the heyday of nightclubs, she was a much-in-demand singer and mistress of ceremonies at various venues across America including the Latin Quarter in New York, the Capitol Theatre and the Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C., the Monteleone Hotel in New Orleans, the Baker Hotel in Dallas, and the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. She also performed at numerous resorts in the Catskill Mountains, including Grossinger's and the Concord. Commenting in his column on one of her nightclub appearances, Walter Winchell wrote: ''Marion Carter, the spitting image of Jean Harlow, sings 'Begin the Beguine' as if Cole Porter meant it for her.'' In the 1960's, she went on to make many television commercials, most prominently for Hotpoint, Schaefer Beer, Broil Quik, Uncle Ben's Rice, Domino Sugar, and, with notable regularity, for Tide. For many years until her demise, she served on the Board of Directors of the National Board of Review which is legendary for being the first group each year to announce its awards honoring excellence in filmmaking and since 1909 has celebrated the distinctive voice of the individual artist and supported freedom of expression in film. Administered by the NBR, there will now be a Marion Carter Green Grant awarded every year in perpetuity to a worthy, aspiring film student deserving of financial assistance. In 1947, she married the late James Mark, a colorful nightclub agent upon whom one of the characters in Woody Allen's ''Broadway Danny Rose'' is based. They divorced in 1958, and in 1970, she married Murray Green, an eyeglass manufacturer, who died in 1988. She is survived by a son from her first marriage, Laurence Mark, a film producer who lives in Los Angeles and New York and whose favorite memory of his mom is getting to play the piano for her when he was 8 years old as she sang ''Around the World'' to a packed house on the stage of a Catskills hotel. At her request, there will be no memorial service -but she will be remembered vividly because of her warmth, her elegance, her style, her wit, her charm and the brightness she carried with her always. She was a beautiful, classy dame to the end.
        $(6$)GREEN--Marion Carter. Marion Carter Green In Memoriam. We note with sorrow the passing of Marion Carter Green, colleague, member and dear friend of the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures. Our deepest sympathy to her son, Laurence Mark. Annie Schulhof, President
      