
        FELDMAN--Lenore. A friend for all ages. Our memories will last forever. Fran and Morty
        $(6$)FELDMAN Fischler --Lenore (nee Spiewak), 70, on August 3rd in Manhattan. Past national and local president of National Council of Jewish Women. Beloved wife of Ed Fischler and the late Dr. George Feldman. Adored mother of David, Debbie, Andrew, Mindy, Michael and Robin Feldman, Neil and Sharon Danzger, Richard, Mark and Jacqueline Fischler, Mark and Jaclyn Kaufer. Loving grandmother of Corey, Samantha, Russell, Zachary, Jessica, Lauren, Avery, Jaclyn, Sabrina, and Tara Feldman, Benjamin, Adam, Daniel and Georgia Danzger, Eric and Janna Kaufer, Matthew and Raquel Fischler. Devoted sister of Bob, Estelle, Jerry and Iris Spiewak, Joyce and Kopi Saltman, Teri Leventhal and the late Herb Leventhal, Martin and Barbara Spiewak. Funeral Friday, August 4th, 11:30 a.m., Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, Hewlett, NY. Donations to the UJA Israel Emergency Campaign or the National Council of Jewish Women are appreciated.
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Lenore,(Fischler), NCJW, Peninsula Section, mourns the loss of past - president and dear friend. Condolences to the entire family. Robin Ivler, President, NCJW Peninsula Section
        $(6$)FELDMAN - FISCHLER--Len ore. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Lenore FeldmanFischler. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club
        $(6$)FELDMAN - FISCHLER -- Len ore. We mourn the loss of our dearest Lenore--core member of our precious Circle of Friends. Her zest for living, her infectious smile, her wisdom and her compassion are a few of her treasures of inspirational traits. We will miss and never forget her contribution to all of our lives. We offer deepest sympathies to her husband, Ed, and family. Marcia & Alvin Adrienne & Bill Lore & Harry Bebe & Ralph Barbara & Cy
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Lenore. Congregation Sons of Israel, Woodmere, records with sorrow the passing of its member, and extends condolences to the bereaved family. Bruce Ginsburg, Rabbi Dr. Saul I. Teplitz, Rabbi Emeritus Sherry T. Bloom, President
      