
        LEVITT--V.David.You showed us how truly wonderful, caring, thoughtful and courageous you were in the midst of adversity. For that, we will always be grateful. Our love goes out to Edy, Valerie (Mark), Ondrea (Jason). Rest in peace, David. Bob & Jane $(6$)LEVITT --V. David. What an inspiration for life and competitiveness. A dear friend who will be sorely missed. Our love and thoughts to Edy and the entire Levitt family. Rest in comfort David, no more pain, lots of passes. Dale & Steve $(6$)LEVITT--David. Our dear lifelong cherished friend. You will be in our hearts forever. Our deepest love to Edy, Valerie, Mark, Ondi, Jason, & the family. -Bonnie & Marty $(6$)LEVITT--V.David. We have lost a great brother/brotherin-law. His courage, integrity, and loyalty was an inspiration to all. We loved him and miss him. Betsy & Alan Cohn $(6$)LEVITT--V. David. We will forever treasure our very special friendship and the wonderful times we shared. While fiercely competitive on the playing field and in business, David was an incredibly devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend. We will miss him dearly. Janie and Robert Julius and Family $(6$)LEVITT--V. David. The Board of Directors, staff and athletes of Maccabi USA/Sports for Israel mourn the loss of our dear friend and leader, David Levitt. The impact of his caring and dedication will be felt for many years to come. David was a Mensch, a gentle soul with a brilliant mind and a kind heart. Our most sincere condolences to his wife Edy and their family. May his memory be for a blessing. The Maccabi USA Sports for Israel Family $(6$)LEVITT--David. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member David Levitt. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Edythe, and to all the members of his family. Stan Brettschneider, President $(6$)LEVITT--David. The epitome of courage, honesty, tenacity, decency, my friend of 52 years. Dr. Jack Posen $(6$)LEVITT--V. David. Insurance titan and founder of LevittFuirst Associates, Ltd Insurance Agency, died on August 5 at age 71 after a long battle with Cancer. Despite an escalating struggle with his illness, Mr. Levitt continued to work passionately at Levitt-Fuirst until two weeks before his death, just as he had done since the firms founding in 1969. Levitt was chiefly responsible for building Levitt-Fuirst into one of Westchester's leading property and casualty insurance agencies. Levitt's two sons-in-law will succeed him at the firm. In addition to his professional success, Mr. Levitt was a champion athlete, volunteer, and benefactor of Maccabi USA/Sports for Israel, for which he won multiple gold metals in Masters Tennis, and of The University of Buffalo, his alma mater, where he was inducted to The Sports Hall of Fame in 1999 as a basketball star and three sport letterman. He was also a graduate of NYU Law School, and a member, leader, and multi-time tennis champion at Hampshire Country Club (Mamaroneck, NY). His survivors are Edythe, his loving, devoted wife of 45 years; his daughters Valerie Levitt Schmaier and Ondrea Levitt Schiciano; his sons-in-law, Mark Schmaier and Jason Schiciano; four grandchildren, Samantha Schmaier, Rachel Schmaier, Logan Schiciano, and Hanna Schiciano; and his sisters, Betsy Cohen and Janet Zalkin. Funeral services: 10am Tuesday, at Community Synagogue, 200 Forest Ave., Rye, NY 10580. 914-967-6262. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to Maccabi USA/ Sports for Israel, 1926 Arch St 4R, Philadelphia, PA 19103. $(6$)LEVITT--V. David. We have lost a very dear friend and will always remember our many years together and the wonderful the times we shared. Our love and thoughts are with Edy, Valerie and Mark, Ondrea and Jason, their children and all their family. David courageously fought to live. May he now rest in peace. We will miss him greatly. Sue & Lew
      