
        GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. A client, a role model, a mentor, and most indelibly, a friend. For more then a decade, Joan inspired me with her brilliance and taught me lessons I will draw upon forever. Like so many she touched, I cannot adequately thank Joan for sharing her generous spirit and her unique perspective on life. Joan was one of a kind. I will miss her terribly. My deepest sympathy to Peter, Laura, and Eric. Brad Karp
        $(6$)GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP deeply mourn the passing of Joan Guggenheimer. Former general counsel of Citigroup and general counsel of JP Morgan, Joan was a longstanding friend of our firm. She was a brilliant lawyer with uncommon vision. She was a role model and mentor. But most of all, Joan was a true and generous friend, who taught us all by her example. We are all diminished by her passing. We extend our deepest sympathy to Joan's husband, Peter, and their wonderful children, Laura and Eric.
        $(6$)GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. Joan Guggenheimer, wife of Peter, mother of Laura and Eric and sister of Ellen Bleckman, died peacefully at home on Sunday, July 30, 2006. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, August 1, 2006 at 11:45 a.m., Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street at Amsterdam Ave., (212)362-6600. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Joan's memory and in honor of Dr. William R. Jarnagin and his team, to the Colon Cancer Research Fund at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Cntr, www.mskcc.org, (212) 639-2000, 1275 York Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10021.
        $(6$)GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. The employees of JPMorgan Chase deeply mourn the loss of Joan Guggenheimer, our General Counsel, who died on Sunday, July 30, 2006. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Peter, children Laura and Eric, and sister Ellen Bleckman. Joan's legal career spanned nearly 25 years, including chief legal officer of Bank One, which merged with JPMorgan Chase in 2003; co-general counsel of Citigroup, among other positions; and a litigator at Davis, Polk and Wardwell. She clerked at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. A recipient of the YWCA Women Achievers Award, she served on the S.I.A. Federal Regulation Committee and the New York County Bar Association Diversity Committee. She was a graduate of Binghamton University and Columbia University, where she was an editor of the Law Review. Born April 22, 1952, she was an admired and respected colleague, known for her integrity and thoughtfulness. She will be sorely missed by all.
      