
        STATMORE--Eleanor Piano teacher, died Tuesday, June 20, 2006 in Passaic, NJ surrounded by loved ones. She was 78. She was born in Passaic and lived in Clifton for most of her life. Eleanor discovered the piano at the age of four and gave her first piano lesson at the age of 11. She began formal piano training with renowned pianist and teacher Sylvia Rabinoff. She then attended Julliard where she studied piano performance under Madame Rosina Lhevinne. Her later private studies included Baroque performance and practice with Eugenia Earle of the Manhattan Conservatory of Music and piano performance with Martin Canin of Julliard. Ms. Statmore established the Statmore Studio in Clifton, NJ where she focused on preparing students for conservatory entrance. Her students went on to attend and/or teach at a number of different schools such as Julliard, New England Conservatory, Hartt College, and Michigan and Indiana Universities. Eleanor, known as a master technician, reached the broader musical community through her numerous lectures and piano technique video tapes. She traveled extensively throughout the United States judging national and international competitions and gave workshops, recital demonstrations and master classes for teachers and students. She also performed across the country as both a soloist and as part of a duet partnership. Eleanor served as president and adjudicator of the Music Educators' Association for many years and she directed the local chapter of the National Piano Teachers' Guild. She was also a member of the New Jersey Federation of Music Clubs, where she established the Joseph Bookstaber Memorial Scholarship in memory of a beloved student. She is survived by children, Clay Statmore of Parsippany, Mona Statmore of Pittsburgh, PA, and Melissa Statmore of New York, NY, six grandchildren, three great-grandchildren, and her sister Vivian Schatz of Philadelphia. Donations in Eleanor's memory may be made to Joseph Israel Bookstaber Memorial Award, a privately funded competition administered through the New Jersey Federation of Music Clubs. Make your check payable to NJFMC (with a notation / Bookstaber Award) and mail to Judy De Wette at 16 Godfrey Road, Upper Montclair, NJ 07043
      