
        FISHER--Richard L. Richard, you were such a large part of our lives. We will never forget our wonderful times together. We will miss you deeply and extend our condolences to the entire Fisher family. Love, Barbara and Parviz $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The community of the Eagle HIll School of Greenwich, CT feels great sadness at the passing of Richard L. Fisher, who expressed his love and generosity through the creation of the Andrew Fisher Memorial Scholarship Fund. Our hearts go out to the Fisher family and most especially to his children Hadley, Winston, and Alexandra, his sister Candia, and his mother Emily Fisher Landau. $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Words cannot express my sadness for I have lost a mentor and a friend. I will miss you very much. My sincere condolences to the Fisher family. Christine Buehler $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Our condolences to the Fisher family. We will greatly miss our esteemed partner whose integrity, strength and leadership inspired us all daily. Employees of Fisher Brothers Management Company $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum staff offers its deepest sympathies to Kristen Kelly Fisher and the family of Richard L. Fisher upon his passing. Richard was a great supporter of the Intrepid Museum and through his passion and generosity the Museum can continue to tell the stories of the Intrepid's journey and our great nation's heroes. Susan Marenoff, Exec. Dir. Dave Winters, EVP and our Intrepid Shipmates $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. We were blessed to share your wisdom, philosophy, and moments of personal happiness. The family has lost a great leader and great uncle, but your strong spirit and inner strength will endure.With Love, Eric and Ken Schulman $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Richard Fisher, devoted philanthropist and one of our industry's most respected and distinguished practitioners. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kristen, and the entire Fisher family. John E. Zuccotti, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The partners and associates of Berdon LLP express their deepest sadness at the loss of a very special friend to our firm. In no short measure, a significant part of our growth, maturity, and understanding of people emanated from our relationship with you and your family. You will be sorely missed. $(6$)FISHER--Richard.The trustees, staff and friends of The Animal Medical Center mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, a passionate member of our Board, a caring New Yorker, and a good friend. In particular we send condolences to Richard's mother, Emily; his wife, Kristen; and his children Winston, Hadley and Alexandra. A great animal lover, Richard will be missed by many. We extend our sympathies to his beloved companions Link, Olivia, Becky and Hermes. On behalf of the Board of Trustees of The Animal Medical Center. Cynthia Phipps, President $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Our deepest heartfelt sympathies are with the entire Fisher family during this difficult time. Sheldon and Mia Solow $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Sincerely sharing your great loss of Richard L. Fisher and extending my deepest sympathy to the Fisher family. Arthur Rosenbloom $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Boss, friend, mentor. I'm lost without you. I will treasure the joys we shared forever in my heart. Condolences to your family. Mike Caruso and Family $(6$)FISHER--Richard. My cousin, my partner and my friend. You have had a deep impact in both my personal and professional life. It has been an honor to be your partner; you have been an inspiration not only to me but to all who knew you. All our love, your family. Steven, Elissa, Jamie Rose, Kyle and Natalia Fisher $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. It is with deep sadness that we acknowledge the passing of our cousin, Richard L. Fisher. We will miss your wit, your wisdom and your friendship, and we will forever cherish the memories we have of you. We will miss you and we will always love you. Rest in peace. Ken, Tammy, Crystal, Brittany and Joshua $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. With great sorrow, the Board of Trustees of The Whitney Museum of American Art, mourns the loss of Richard Fisher, the beloved son of our dearest Trustee, Emily Fisher Landau. Richard's indefatigable commitment to the arts and enduring devotion to his family were not only appreciated by The Whitney, but the many other organizations that benefitted from his leadership. Even through his illness, he maintained an extraordinary degree of strength, elegance, wisdom, and grace. Our most heartfelt condolences go out to his mother Emily, his wife, Kristen, and the entire Fisherfamily. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President Adam D. Weinberg, Alice Pratt Brown Director The Trustees $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Chancellor, Board of Trustees, staff and faculty of Syracuse University mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, real estate developer and philanthropist. Richard was the father of Winston C. Fisher, a member of the Board of Visitors of Syracuse University's College of Arts and Sciences. Our deepest sympathies go to Richard Fisher's wife, Kristen, his children, Hadley, Winston and Alexandra, his mother, Emily Fisher Landau, and their families. $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP extend their deepest condolences to the family of our long-time client, Richard L. Fisher. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. His wisdom, courage and spirit will live forever. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Richard L. Fisher, a longtime supporter of ADL's Real Estate Division. His abiding commitment to the League's mission will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his mother, Emily Fisher Landau, his wife Kristen, his children Hadley, Winston and Alexandra, and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to Richard's children, Hadley, Winston and Alexandra, and the entire Fisher family. Our prayers are with you all. The Johannessens $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Throughout his life, Richard enriched the lives of so many people. He will always be fondly remembered for his dedication to family, his astute business sense and for his many philanthropic interests. He will be remembered forever as a great friend to New York City, and a great patriot. He will sorely be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Emily, Kristen, Hadley, Winston, Jessica, Alexandra and the entire Fisher family. Nathalie and Charles de Gunzburg $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. First Spring Corporation mourns the passing of Richard Fisher. He will be remembered for his leadership in business and his outstanding philanthropic generosity. We are proud to have been Richard's friend and partner. He will be an inspiration to us always. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Kristen and his entire family. Kenneth Musen, CEO First Spring Corporation $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Judy and I mourn the loss of one of our closest and dearest friends Richard, my heart is broken in knowing that our weekly breakfasts or lunches will be no more. I feel like I've lost a brother. Your wit, charm, warmth, and understanding will be deeply missed. You will always live in our hearts and minds. Stanley and Judy Freundlich. $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Richard L. Fisher, a cherished leader and friend. A highly regarded and generous benefactor of many philanthropic causes, Richard contributed significantly to the Jewish community and provided wise counsel to UJA-Federation. A dedicated member of the organization's Real Estate and Allied Trades Division, in May 2005 he accepted the division's Jack D. Weiler Award for Jewish Communal Service on his family's behalf. The treasured family legacy of caring for community has been passed on to his children. Winston served in a leadership role at our annual Real Estate Luncheon and is currently an esteemed member of the Emerging Leaders & Philanthropists Strategic Council. This steadfast involvement and strong family commitment and generosity has strengthened our ability to serve those in need, making an enduring impact on the Jewish community, all New Yorkers, and millions of people throughout the world. We will miss Richard greatly, and we extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Kristen; his children, Winston, Hadley, and Alexandra; to his mother, Emily Fisher Landau; and the entire Fisher family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O. $(6$)FISHER--Richard. With profound sorrow, Horace Mann School mourns the loss of Richard L. Fisher '59, visionary business leader and stalwart and caring friend of this institution. His thoughtful involvement for over 50 years as a respected student, committed alumnus, and distinguished Trustee provide a continuing source of inspiration. As a Trustee of HM, he served his terms of office with dedication, conviction and sound judgment. Always dignified and passionate in his determination to help others, Richard Fisher was a man of great strength, devotion and integrity. He led the remarkable reconstruction of virtually our entire main campus over 1998-2002. Fisher Hall, named by Richard for his beloved father Martin, stands as testimony to the warmth and depth of his devotion to Horace Mann. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Kristen, his children Hadley, Winston and Alexandra, his mother Emily Fisher Landau, and to the rest of his beloved family and countless devoted friends. His remarkable presence and passion for life will be remembered. Dr. Thomas M. Kelly Head of School Steven M. Friedman '72 Chair, Board of Trustees Robert J. Katz '65 Chair Emeritus, Board of Trustees $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. We mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, beloved husband of Kristen, father of Hadley, Winston and Jessica, and Alexandra, son of Emily, brother of Irma, Lester and Candia. Senior Partner of Fisher Brothers, member of the Board of Lincoln Center, Founding Trustee and Vice Chairman of Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund; benefactor of Lincoln Center, Intrepid Museum, Fisher House Foundation. A leader in New York City real estate and a man dedicated to serving others through the arts, education and military families and veterans support. He will be greatly missed. We will keep his wife, Kristen; his children, Hadley, Winston, and his wife, Jessica, and Alexandra; his mother, Emily, and her husband, Sheldon; his sisters, Candia, and Irma, and his brother, Lester, and all the Fisher family in our thoughts and prayers. $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Board of the American Friends of The Churchill Museum at the Cabinet War Rooms (London) mourns the loss of our fellow Trustee. A great admirer of Sir Winston S. Churchill, Richard enthusiastically embraced the concept of a museum dedicated to the life and achievements of Churchill when it was proposed in 2003 and soon thereafter became a Trustee and ardent supporter. We value the passion Richard devoted to this tribute to the statesman he so admired, and his consistent and generous support and guidance. Our condolences to Kristen, Winston, Hadley, and Alexandra and Mrs. Emily Fisher Landau. Sir Deryck Maughan, Chair Phil Reed, Director $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation and the Fisher Center Laboratories at The Rockefeller University are greatly saddened by the loss of Richard L. Fisher who was the nephew of our late founder-chairman, Zachary Fisher. As a leading member of the Fisher family, Richard's far reaching philanthropy did so much for scientific research, including our own. Our hearts go out to Richard's son, Hadley, a member of our board of trustees, and to the rest of the Fisher family. He will sorely missed. Michael Stern, President Dr. Paul Greengard, Director, the Fisher Center Labs $(6$)FISHER--Richard. The Coast Guard Foundation mourns the loss of Richard L. Fisher, patriot, benefactor, and cofounder of its Annual Tribute Dinner in New York City. Thanks to Mr. Fisher's leadership and generosity, the event has generated over $15 million to enhance the lives and performance of Coast Guard members and their families. The Foundation's directors and staff extend condolences to Kristen Fisher and members of her family. Ross E. Roeder Chairman of the Board James C. Link President $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Our hearts are broken over the loss of our dear brother Richard. He was a dynamic force in the family and in the City of New York. Richard's efforts with The Intrepid Museum, The Fisher Houses, and his support of families in the military, made him an exceptional person. His prescense and interests in his own family will leave a void within all of us. We will miss him dearly. Lester Fisher Irma Fisher Mann $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The employees of the Fisher Brothers Management companies mourn the loss of our leader, a scholarly man of wit and vision. Through three decades you provided the steam for the locomotive. Our prays and deepest condolences are extended to Kristen, Emily Fisher Landau and the entire Fisher family. The Managers and Staff of the FBMC companies $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Countless individuals were fortunate to be threads woven into the exquisite fabric of his life. A tapestry of infinite stories. An heirloom for his progeny. My heartfelt condolences to his wonderful children Hadley, Winston, Alexandra; his loving wife Kristen; his devoted sister Candia and adoring mother Emily. Cynthia DiBartolo $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. All of us at Newmark Knight Frank are saddened at the untimely loss of our dear friend and business partner, Richard Fisher. We are proud to have had the great honor of working along side him. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Kristen and the entire Fisher family. Newmark Knight Frank $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. I am grateful for having had the opportunity to know you, be mentored by you, and have worked for you. You have helped improve many lives, a few of which include me and my family. We are very saddened to lose you. May you rest peacefully. Richard, Margaret, Eugene and Danny $(6$)FISHER--Richard. The Cushing Academy community expresses our profound sorrow over the passing of Richard L. Fisher. We send our deepest condolences to the entire Fisher family. Mark E. Tuller, Board President James Tracy, Headmaster $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Dear Emily and Candia, we can never imagine the significance of the loss you must feel. You are in our thoughts and prayers, we promise. Tony and Richard are taking care of each other now. All of us will do our best to do the same for both of you. Love, Billy and Bryan $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. You brought us wisdom & whimsy. Always the educator, the strength and dignity you demonstrated over the past year was a last great lesson to all of us. A last salute. Our prayers and sympathy go out to the entire Fisher family. Jack Whalen and family $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. We are grateful for every day we had together and we will miss you every day going forward. We love you. Winston, Jessica, Kaia, and Andrew $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. We mourn the loss of our good friend and partner, Richard L. Fisher. Louis Dreyfus Property Group
      