
        FISHER--Richard L. The Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center greatly mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, a cherished and longtime member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. Our dear friend was a distinguished philanthropist and senior partner of Fisher Brothers, one of New York City's leading real estate firms. In 2003 we proudly honored him with the Lincoln Center Distinguished Service Award for his stalwart and unstinting support of Lincoln Center and our American Songbook series. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Kristen Kelly Fisher, and his mother, Emily Fisher Landau. We also extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entier Fisher family and their many friends. Frank A. Bennack Jr., Chair. Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The University of Pennsylvania family mourns the loss of Richard L. Fisher. Richard was a distinguished alumnus, former member of the Board of Trustees of the University, former member of the Board of Overseers of Penn's School of Arts and Sciences, and generous donor to the University. Richard's recent naming of Fisher-Bennett Hall reflected his longtime support for the University's Department of English, from which he received his undergraduate and graduate degrees. We will miss his friendship and we extend our sincere condolences to his family. James S. Riepe Chairman of the Board Amy Gutmann, President
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Richard, you have always inspired us to stay sharp and on point, focused and formidable. Your compassion and concern for the bravest of this great nation will never be forgotten. We will continue the great legacy of the Fisher family in your good name. No matter how many pages of the dictionary we turn, we could never find a word sufficient to describe how wonderful you have been to us. To your family, especially your mother Emily, our dearest Kristen, and your beautiful children Winston, Hadley and Alexandra, we extend our love and most heartfelt condolences. We will miss you so much. Love, Bill White and Bryan Eure
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The trustees and staff of Fisher House Foundation, and the managers of the 35 Fisher Houses, express their sympathy to our good friend Kristen Kelly Fisher and the family of Richard L. Fisher upon his passing. Richard has supported the Fisher House program since its inception in 1990, and his wisdom and financial contributions through the Fisher Brothers Foundation have helped make a difference in the lives of thousands of service men and women and their loved ones. On behalf of the Board of Trustees of Fisher House Foundation, David A. Coker, President
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. It is with deep sadness that Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of one of our Senior Partners, Richard L. Fisher. His steadfast leadership and unmatched commitment helped guide Fisher Brothers to heights previously thought unattainable. As Chief Financial Officer and Managing Partner, he helped steer the company through complex diversifications, and even when sick, maintained and strengthened the solid foundation that future generations will build on. His wisdom, courage and spirit will live on through his future endeavors. Rest in peace. Fisher Brothers
        $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. We mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, beloved husband of Kristen, father of Hadley, Winston and Jessica, and Alexandra, son of Emily, brother of Irma, Lester and Candia. Senior Partner of Fisher Brothers, member of the Board of Lincoln Center, Founding Trustee and Vice Chairman of Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund; benefactor of Lincoln Center, Intrepid Museum, Fisher House Foundation. A leader in New York City real estate and a man dedicated to serving others through the arts, education and military families and veterans support. He will be greatly missed.
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. We express our deepest condolences to Kristen Kelly Fisher on the loss of her husband Richard, and to the entire Fisher family. We are saddened at this terrible loss, and our prayers are with you, Emily, Winston, Hadley and Alexandra. We will honor and remember all Richard did for Intrepid and those who serve our nation. Arnold Fisher, Chairman Bill White, President and the Board of Trustees of Intrepid
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Our hearts are broken over the loss of our dear brother Richard. He was a dynamic force in the family and in the City of New York. Richard's efforts with The Intrepid Museum, The Fisher Houses, and his support of families in the military, made him an exceptional person. His prescense and interests in his own family will leave a void within all of us. We will miss him dearly. Lester Fisher Irma Fisher Mann
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York records the passing of our distinguished and longtime member, Richard L. Fisher. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia Waxman, President George Asch, Secretary
        $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. My unique and wonderful cousin. You have been a partner, a true friend, a confidant and much more to me. I shall forever admire you, for your many special attributes, and will treasure all that you contributed to my life. My life will not be the same without you, but your memory will sustain me and our family and our business forever. Arnold Fisher
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. For 20 years I had the honor and privilege of working, learning and growing alongside Richard. He was a man of great wisdom and intellect. His integrity and character were evident to all he met. I will miss him greatly. Deepest sympathy to the entire Fisher family. Sam Rosenberg and Family
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund mourns the loss of our Vice Chairman, Richard L. Fisher, a great Americen who dedicated himself to the support of our fallen military heroes and their families. Our thoughts and prayers to the entire Fisher family. Richard Santulli, Chairman and the Board of Trustees
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. We have lost a cherished member of our family, and an integral part of our lives and joys. We will miss him in ways that words cannot capture or measure. We offer our love and support to Kristen, Emily, Hadley, Winston, Jessica and Alexandra. Marty, Nancy, Maggie, Philip, Brian, Matthew and Jen
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. How fortunate I am to have known you for 28 years. You have always shown me the greatest respect and warmth. It is that respect and warmth that shall stay in my heart forever. Audrey Fisher
        $(6$)FISHER -- Richard L. We mourn the loss of our father who guided us through the good and bad times. We are proud to carry on his legacy and will always honor his memory. Hadley, Winston, Alex and Jessica
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. I have lost my boss and my dear dear friend. My heart is broken and I will miss you forever. Our deepest condolences to your family. Jenny and Steve Prince
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. A treasured friend for 30 years, a loss for a lifetime. Ira and I extend our sincere condolences to the Fisher family. Sharon & Ira Lipkins
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. A father, a friend, a mentor. I will miss his guidance and friendship. He will always live on in my heart. Winston
        $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. Dad, even though we did not say it a lot, I loved you more than you will ever know. Hadley Fisher
      