
        STAVIS--Reeva. WJCS mourns the loss of Reeva, mother of our Board President, Rob. Her legacy lives on in the family commitment to community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rob, Amy and the entire family. Alan Trager, CEO/Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)STAVIS--Reeva (Byer), 71, of Bloomfield, CT formerly of West Hartford, CT died Tuesday, August 22, 2006 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, NY. She was the widow of Frank Stavis. Born in Hartford, CT, she was the daughter of the late Percy and Anna (Yellin) Byer. Reeva, together with Frank, were leaders in the Hartford Jewish community. They led several missions to Israel for the Jewish Federation of Greater Hartford. She was also very involved at the Greater Hartford Jewish Community Center where she was an active fund raiser and volunteer. Reeva cochaired the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Tournament ''Play for a Cure'' at Tumble Brook Country Club in Bloomfield. She was a member of Beth El Temple of West Hartford. She was the beloved mother of Robert Stavis and his wife Amy of Larchmont, NY, Susan Rahn and her husband Eric of Boca Raton, FL, and Patti Dweck and her husband Michael of Scarsdale, NY; cherished grandmother of Adam and David Rahn, Jake and Sammy Stavis, and Evan, Allison and Nicole, Dweck; and sister of Jonah J. Byer of West Hartford. She was predeceased by a son, Andrew Alan Stavis. Funeral services will be held Thursday, August 24, 2006 at 1 P.M. in the Sanctuary of Beth El Temple, 2626 Albany Avenue, West Hartford with Rabbi James Rosen and Rabbi Jeffrey Sirkman co-officiating. Interment will follow in Beth El Temple Cemetery, Avon, CT. A memorial period will be observed at her home, 3 Curran Circle, Bloomfield, CT Thursday, following funeral through Friday afternoon. Memorial contributions may be made to the Israel Emergency Campaign of UJA Federation or to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, 18 North Main Street, 3rd floor, West Hartford, CT 06107. For further information, directions, or to share memories of Reeva with her family, please visit online at www.weinsteinmortuary .com.
        $(6$)STAVIS--Reeva. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Reeva Stavis, beloved mother of Robert Stavis, and his wife, Amy; Patricia Dweck, and her husband, Michael; Susan Rahn and her husband, Eric; treasured leaders and dear friends. Reeva and her beloved late husband, Frank, set an unparalleled example of philanthropic leadership through their dedication to the Jewish community. That legacy continues through their children, Robert, a member of our Board of Directors and president of Westchester Jewish Community Services; and Patricia, a leader in our Scarsdale Women's Campaign. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, grandchildren, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      