
        GIBBONS--John Martin Jr., an obstetrician and gynecologist, died recently surrounded by his cherished and loving family in Hartford, Connecticut. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer. Dr. Gibbons was a leader and advocate of women's health. He was President of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists 2003-2004. He was appointed to the Advisory Council of Child Health and Human Development at The National Institute of Health, 2001-2005 and served on the International Committee of the Holy Family Maternity Hospital in Bethlehem, Israel. He was a member of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ireland. He was a professor of Ob/Gyn at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1970-1994 at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center and Senior Vice President for Medical Affairs. His greatest love was the care of patients and he maintained a private practice throughout his career. In 1996 as a result of his contributions and achievements the Hospital and Department of Ob/Gyn named their newly built department The John M. Gibbons Pavilion for Women. Dr. Gibbons had a life-long interest in the arts and was Chairman of the Board of the Hartford Ballet, 1995-97, a member of the boards of The Greater Hartford Arts Council, Hartford Stage, and an Elector of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art. At the time of his death he was an Overseer of the Bushnell Memorial Hall. Born in New York City in 1933, the son of the late Dr. John Martin Gibbons and Mary Frances Darr Gibbons, he graduated from Georgetown University School of Medicine and completed his residency training at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. He was on the staff of North Shore and Memorial Hospitals and Director of the Department of Ob/Gyn at Fordham Hospital. He is survived by his wife of more than fifty years, Mary Peyser Gibbons and their children, Catherine Gibbons Way, Mary Sloan, her husband Spencer, John M. Gibbons III, Fredericka Kerr, her husband David, Myles Gibbons and his wife Tracy. He has a brother Myles F. Gibbons. He was precedeased by his sister Mary Sefton Nelson and brother William Darr Gibbons. He was a member of the Hartford Golf Club, The Lotos Club and the Harvard Club of New York.
      