
        ANTONOFF--Sarah R. 77, of North Hills, NY on August 1, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of Rubin for 52 years, loving sister to Don and Lavonne Suss, the late Larry and Dorothy Suss, and Arlene Special, caring sister-in-law to the late Bernie Antonoff, Esther Antonoff, the late Sarah ''Gypsy'' and David Platt, and Sonny and Sima Antonoff, cherished mother of Marla and Mark Novick and the late Linda Antonoff-Steinberger, adored step-grandmother of Brett and Blake Novick, treasured aunt to her very special nephews and nieces, fun-loving confidante to her numerous cousins and loyal friend to many. A compassionate woman who always, put her family first, she could not do enough for family and friends alike. A woman of integrity and wisdom, we will miss her sense of humor, wonderful stories and sage advice.She was the ultimate role model for her children and stepgrandchildren who adored her. Her memory will remain with her family and friends forever. Donations in her memory may be made to Weill Cornell Breast Center Genetics Program and in the memo portion, donors should specify ''The Antonoff Family Cancer Research Fund.'' Checks can be mailed to: Weill Cornell Breast Center, attn: Genetics, 425 East 61st Street, New York NY 10021
        $(6$)ANTONOFF -- Sarah. My mother, my best friend, my biggest fan. Words cannot describe how much I will miss you in my life. My late sister Linda and I were truly blessed to have had a mother like you. Your nurturing support, brilliant guidance and remarkable strength were always evident in all that you did for us. Your unconditional love was never ending. I will carry you and Linda in my heart and soul forever. I will love you and miss you every day for the rest of my life. I love you more, Mom. Your first-born love, Marla
        $(6$)ANTONOFF--Sarah. The entire staff of Total Community Management and the homeowners of Imperial Gardens at North Hills express our deepest sorrow on the passing of Sarah (Sandy) who was a special woman and a good friend to many. Her sharp intellect and compassion will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Her kindness and warmth touched the human spirit. We will all miss her dearly. Ralph LaMagna, President Total Community Mgmt and The Homeowners of Imperial Gardens
        $(6$)ANTONOFF--Sarah. Genuinely giving, forever caring, always supportive, immensely sensitive and an incredibly special, loving and important part of our lives. Sandy was a devoted mother-in-law and caring in-law to Mae and Max Weis. She was the most adoring step-grandmother to Brett and Blake and our special dog, Cody. I will miss your warmth, intellect and your wonderful charisma. You have left a void that cannot be filled. We will all miss you very much. Love always, Mark
        $(6$)ANTONOFF--Sarah. We were so lucky to have such a special step-grandmother like you. We will miss all of the love and attention you gave us by babysitting us when we were little, attending baseball games, class recitals, visiting day at camp, teaching us great card games and so many fun dinners and movies together. We will miss your wisdom, warmth and wonderful enthusiasm as well as all the hugs and kisses you gave us. We will always love you and miss you very much. Love always, Blake and Brett
      