
        GREENOUGH--Peter B. , on September 6th, 2006. Beloved husband of 49 years of Beverly Sills. Loving father of Lindley, Nancy, Diana, Meredith and Peter, Jr. and grandfather of Allyson and Geoffrey. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the New York City Chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society. Funeral private.
        $(6$)GREENOUGH--Peter B. The members and volunteers of the New York City Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society extend our hearfelt condolences to the family of Peter B. Greenough, and especially to our very dear friend and Trustee, Beverly Sills Greenough, on the loss of her husband, and our dear friend and volunteer, Meredith (Muffy) Greenough on the loss of her father. Beverly's exceptional devotion to Peter and her total commitment to his well being was an inspiration to us all.
        $(6$)GREENOUGH -- Peter. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the March of Dimes mourn the passing of our esteemed volunteer, Peter B. Greenough. Together with Beverly Sills, his wife and fellow member of the National Board of Trustees, Peter had a remarkable record of service to our mission to save babies from birth defects, premature birth and other causes of infant death and disability. Peter was a member of the Board from 1974 to 1988 and later served as an Honorary Trustee. He was the first chairman of the March of Dimes Bioethics Committee, created in 1975, and served in that position until 1990; he continued to be active on the panel until 1993. Miss Sills, who began as a volunteer for the Mothers March in 1971, rose to become Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1991 to 1994. Peter's dedication and guidance were incalculable to our organization and he will be greatly missed. We send our deepest condolences to the entire family. James E. Sproull, Jr., Esq. Chairman, Board of Trustees Jennifer L. Howse, Ph.D. President March of Dimes
        $(6$)GREENOUGH--Peter B. The Board of Trustees and the entire Hospital for Special Surgery community extend our deepest sympathy at the passing of Peter Greenough, husband of Beverly Sills Greenough, longtime member of our Board of Trustees and now Life Trustee. We extend our deepest condolences to all their family. Dean R. O'Hare Aldo Papone Co-Chairs, Board of Trustees Thomas P. Sculco, M.D. Chief Medical Officer John R. Reynolds President & CEO Hospital for Special Surgery
      