
        WOHL--Bernard died peacefully on August 31st with his wife Beth, ''sister'' Deb and children, Michael and Carla, by his side. Bernie was a gentle giant who spent his life being a bully for social change. For more than 26 years he was executive director of Goddard Riverside Community Center. He built affordable housing for the homeless and the elderly and instituted programs to give children a head start and teens a way of exploring their options. He spoke passionately for the less fortunate and he taught them how to do the same. No one had a bigger heart or better sense of humor. He will be missed terribly. Services will be held this Sunday at 1pm at SAJ, 15 West 86th St. Contributions to The Bernie Wohl Campaign for Kids, Goddard Riverside Community Center, 593 Columbus Ave, NY 10024.
        $(6$)WOHL--Bernard. Goddard Riverside Community Center mourns the death of its visionary Executive Director from 1972 to 1998. Bernie always spoke his truth and led from the heart. A leader in the national and international settlement house movement, he was a tireless and inspired worker for social justice. He transformed Goddard Riverside into a model of community building and values-driven social work. Bernie will live on in the thousands of lives he touched here and around the world. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Beth, his children Michael and Carla, and his beloved grandchildren. The memorial service will be Sunday, 9/3/06, 1:00 PM at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism (SAJ), 15 West 86th Street in Manhattan. Stanley Heckman, President Stephan Russo, Executive Director
        $(6$)WOHL -- Bernard J. The Board, staff and members of United Neighborhood Houses mourn Bernie Wohl, a leading figure in NYC's settlement house community. As the Executive Director of Goddard Riverside Community Center, Bernie was a most passionate advocate for the poor. He contributed tremendously to our City through his dedication to social justice and building communities. We will miss his very important leadership and civic voice. Our heartfelt condolences to our fellow board member Beth Taylor on her loss. Sid Lapidus, Chair Lew Kramer, President Nancy Wackstein, Executive Director
      