
        HIRSCHHORN--David. The American Jewish Committee mourns with great sadness the passing of David Hirschhorn, one of our most devoted leaders and generous benefactors for more than half a century. David was an Honorary Vice President, member of our National Leadership Council and served with great distinction on our Board of Governors and International, Interreligious and Contemporary Jewish Life Commissions. In his hometown of Baltimore, he held the post of Chapter Chair. David's lifetime of communal service was always buoyed through his loving partnership with his wife Barbara. Together, they worked tirelessly in the pursuit of international human rights, primarily through the establishment and nurturance of AJC's Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights which continues, 35 years later, to make exceptional contributions to this cause. We were proud to honor David and Barbara with AJC's National Distinguished Leadership Award in 2005. David was equally passionate over these many decades in his commitment to a host of other issues that touched him deeply as an American and a Jew, namely, the security of Israel, the advancement of Jewish education and the enhancement of Jewish life. His intelligence, decency and compassion will be sorely missed. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Barbara, his four children and fourteen grandchildren. E. Robert Goodkind,Pres David A. Harris, Executive Director
        HIRSCHHORN--David. On behalf of the Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights of the American Jewish Committee we express our heartfelt sorrow on the death of David Hirschhorn, a founder and guiding spirit of the Institute. David's vision, generosity, tenacity and wisdom helped shape the policies and programs of JBI in ways that will long serve as a living legacy. Together with his wife, Barbara, and other family members he demonstrated the enormous good that can be accomplished through a commitment to fostering human freedom. In his long service on the Institute's Administrative Council and Executive Committee, he displayed a deep dedication to justice, fairness, and the universal principles of human rights for all persons. The Jacob Blaustein Institute will greatly miss David's exceptional foresight and institution building skills, his wise counsel and his unique combination of idealism and realism. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Barbara, his four children and fourteen grandchildren. Robert S. Rifkind, Chair Selma Hirsh, Special Advisor Felice Gaer, Director Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights of the American Jewish Committee.
      