
        LORBERBAUM--Alan, S. An entrepreneur, carpet industry pioneer and philanthropist, died Saturday at his home in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 82. Alan was a dynamic and innovative leader in the carpet and rug industry for more than 40 years. He and his late wife, Shirley, founded Aladdin Mills, Inc., and built it into one of the industry's leading manufacturers. In 1994, Aladdin merged with Mohawk Industries, which later became the largest flooring manufacturer in the world. Alan became Mohawk's major shareholder and joined its Board of Directors. In 1957, he founded Aladdin Mills in a former skating rink. Aladdin focused on the rug and bath mat business until the late 1970's. With his engineering background, Mr. Lorberbaum created unique and efficient manufacturing processes that gave Aladdin a low cost position in the market. His hobby was his business, and he spent the majority of his time perfecting it. He described his role as being similar to that of a conductor leading a premier symphony orchestra. Aladdin moved aggressively into the carpet business in the late 1980's after many companies were already well established in the market. Mr. Lorberbaum established a talented team of executives to build Aladdin into an industry leader. Aladdin was among the first carpet producers to invest in a fiber extrusion, as well as a distribution and trucking system that enabled the company to provide a higher level of service than the industry standard. Mr. Lorberbaum referred to it as ''sudden service'' and it was a mantra he institutionalized in the organization. These investments allowed Aladdin to grow into one of the largest carpet manufacturers in America. Mr. Lorberbaum was fiercely devoted to his employees and believed that all problems in businesses were caused by their managements. He saw his employees as and extension of his family, and his kindness, respect and generosity toward them reinforced that the feeling no matter how large the company grew. In 1994, Mr. Lorberbaum recognized that the industry was consolidating, and that the company required additional capital to grow even faster. To accomplish this, he planned to take to the company public. During the last stage of the process, Mohawk Industries proposed a merger with Aladdin. Mr. Lorberbaum correctly foresaw the value in combining the companies and the power of their collective strength. Mr. Lorberbaum's legacy goes well beyond the company he founded. Through his philanthropic endeavors, he focused on sup porting issues that impact education from his early childhood development through higher education. He believed education is essential to the success of individuals and communities.
      