
        RE--Judge Edward D. The Board of Directors and Members of the Neponsit Property Owners' Association deeply regrets the loss of one of its Board members and wishes to express its heartfelt condolences to his family. Edward D. Re was Chief Judge Emeritus of the U.S. Court of International Trade and will be remembered for his dignified manner, kindness and commitment to our country and to our community. $(6$)RE--Edward D., on September 17th, 2006. Chief Judge Emeritus, U.S. Court of International Trade. Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus, St. John's University School of Law. Retired Colonel, U.S.A.F, J.A.G. Department. Former Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States. Former Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Beloved husband of Margaret A. (nee Corcoran). Loving father of Mary Ann Re, Anthony J. Re, Marina Re, Edward J. Re, Jr., Victor M. Re, Margaret T. Re, Matthew J. Re, Joseph R. Re, Mary Elizabeth Hoes, Mary Joan Re, Mary Ellen Caggiano and Nancy Cregan. Grandfather of 23 and great-grandfather of one. Reposing at Denis O'Connor F.H., 91-05 Beach Channel Dr., Rockaway Beach. Funeral Mass at St. Francis De Sales Church, Belle Harbor, on Wednesday at 10 AM. Interment St. Charles Cemetery. Visiting Tuesday 2-5 and 7-10 PM. $(6$)RE--Edward D. Hon. St. Johns School of Law notes with sorrow the passing of Honorable Edward D. Re, Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus, alumnus, supporter, and friend. Honorable Edward D. Re., Chief Judge Emeritus of the U.S. Court of International Trade, served the administrations of both President John F. Kennedy and President Lyndon B. Johnson as Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs and as Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States. He was appointed a federal judge to the U.S. Court of International Trade by President Johnson in 1968, and, by appointment of President Carter, served as Chief Judge from 1977 to his retirement from the federal bench in 1991. Judge Re graduated from St. Johns School of Law in 1943. He was first appointed to the faculty at St. Johns School of Law in 1947. He taught Appellate Advocacy, International Law and Remedies to generations of students. In 1968, St. John's University awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree, and in 2003, the Alumni Association presented him with the St. Thomas More Award, for moral courage. Judge Re was the recipient of twenty honorary degrees from universities in the United States and abroad. In addition to articles on advocacy, legal writing, international and comparative law, he was the author along with his son Joseph R. Re of, Re and Re on Remedies, 6th edition (2005), Foundation Press and Re and Re on Brief Writing and Oral Argument, 9th edition, (2005) Oceana Publications. Judge Re authored Selected Essays on Equity (1955); Freedom's Prophet: Selected Writings of Zechariah Chafee, Jr., (1961); Cases on International Law (with Lester B. Orfield)(1955; 1965); Foreign Confiscations in Anglo-American Law (1951). The entire St. Johns community will miss the friendship of this dedicated alumnus and friend.
      