
        ROWAN--A. James. Internationally recognized academician, researcher and specialist in the treatment of epilepsy, whose most recent work revolutionized the treatment of seizure disorders in the elderly, died of lung cancer on Sunday, August 27, 2006 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City, He was 71 years old. In 1980, Dr. Rowan was appointed Professor, Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and Director of Electroencephalography, Department of Neurophysiology. He was also Co-Director, NYU-Mount Sinai Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. In addition, Dr. Rowan was Chief of the Neurology Service and Director of the Epilepsy Research Unit at the Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Dr. Rowan was a chief investigator together with his colleague, Dr. Eugene Ramsay of the Veterans Administration Hospital in Miami of a multi-site ten year study of late onset seizures disorders in the elderly population. Their work dramatically changed the way epilepsy is diagnosed and treated in the elderly. An author of 12 books on epilepsy and its treatment, including his most widely circulated ''Primer of EEG'', Dr. Rowan was recognized as an accomplished writer in his field. His book, ''The Brainstorms Healers'' was meant for patients and their families. Dr. Rowan was also the author of innumerable articles, chapters, and peer reviewed studies in the professional literature. Dr. Rowan was born in Los Angeles on April 3, 1935, growing up in Ohio and coming east to attend The Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He studied medicine at Stanford Univeristy School of Medicine and did his neurology residence at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He also held appointments at Columbia and at The Albert Einstein College of Medicine. He is survived by his wife, Rita and a stepson, David M. Korn. A memorial service will be held at 2PM Friday, September 8, 2006 at St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th St/Park Ave. in New York City. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations in his memory be made to The Epilepsy Foundation.
      