
        LYONS--Albert S., MD. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Lyons, Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus, and Alumni Historian, was one of the first two physicians to graduate in 1942, from the Hospital's newly established Dept. of Surgery training program. A renowned gastric surgeon and author of many scientific papers, Dr. Lyons further served the institution by creating the Archives of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, preserving the history of Mount Sinai and its Alumni with painstaking diligence. In 1966, he was given the official title of Hospital Archivist. In 1969, he served as President of The Mount Sinai Alumni and, in 1974, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Lyons in acknowledgement of his many contributions as a physician and teacher, and the great distinction he brought to Mount Sinai. He exemplified our finest traditions of medical excellence and will be sorely missed. Barry Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, V.P. Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Secy. Martin Goldstein, MD, Treas.
        $(6$)LYONS--Albert S., MD. The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus Albert S. Lyons, MD of the Department of Surgery. Dr. Lyons came to Mount Sinai in 1940, and spent his professional life here. He created the first clinic in the country for ostomates in 1951 and helped to found self-help groups for these patients. A gentleman and scholar, he authored articles in surgery as well as Medicine--An Illustrated History. He founded Mount Sinai's Archives and directed the History of Medicine Program from 1970-86. Because of his efforts, Mount Sinai's institutional memory remains vital. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his family and friends. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Boards of Trustees Kenneth L. Davis, MD President, CEO and Dean
        $(6$)LYONS--Albert S., MD. The Department of Surgery at The Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourns the passing of our distinguished colleague and dear friend. As an esteemed & highly regarded professor and surgeon, Dr. Lyons served the department and the hospital for 65 years. He was recognized as a leader in the field of Surgery and a well known medical historian. He was an outstanding teacher to generations of surgical residents. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Michael L. Marin, M.D. Chairman Department of Surgery Mount Sinai School of Medicine
      