
        WOHL--Bernard J. Strange to write an obit for someone who is alive. Bernie, you are here with us on the upper West Side where you were born and bred. You are here in all the programs and housing you created for the handicapped, the elderly, the homeless and the poor. The giant building you dreamt up, fought for and built from 88th to 89th street on Columbus Avenue rings out with your soul in every brick. The slum lords didnt like it when you built it and named you, ''The Poverty Zsar''! In the beautiful kitchen and dining room of Goddard Riverside every November 25th you are there carving turkey with gusto for those who have no other Thanksgiving. Your motto is ''Nothing is too good for the poor''. You are here in the youth programs and camps you built, in the health programs, law program to defend tenants and the first program to ''REACH OUT'' to the homeless in Central Park and on the streets of New York. You thought of providing ''OPTIONS'' for young and old in jobs and education and thousands of people have improved their lives as a result. Your BOOKFAIR is an annual westside celebration to you. Your radiant smile, your laugh, your bear hug and kiss on the cheek are with us forever. Thank you Bernie for staying alive. Sol, Elayne, Risa, David, Nan, Kathleen and John
        $(6$)WOHL--Bernard. Goddard Riverside Community Center mourns the death of its visionary Executive Director from 1972 to 1998. Bernie always spoke his truth and led from the heart. A leader in the national and international settlement house movement, he was a tireless and inspired worker for social justice. He transformed Goddard Riverside into a model of community building and values-driven social work. Bernie will live on in the thousands of lives he touched here and around the world. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Beth, his children Michael and Carla, and his beloved grandchildren. The memorial service will be Sunday, 9/3/06, 1:00 PM at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism (SAJ), 15 West 86th Street in Manhattan. Stanley Heckman, President Stephan Russo, Executive Director
      