
        HEEREN--Aimee de Sa Sottomaior, died at home Wednesday morning, of complications following pneumonia, aged 103. Mrs. Heeren was born in Castro in the Province of Parana, Brazil. When they were still in their teens, Aimee and her sister Vera accompanied their parents to Rio De Janeiro, where the family settled. Aimee was married young to a distant cousin, Luis Simoes Lopes, the right hand man to President Getulio Vargas. The couple lived at the presidential palace. The marriage lasted for only a few years. Then, the two sisters, who by then were exotic beauties, arrived in New York and immediately caused a stir due to their charm and originality. In 1941, Aimee met and, later in the year, married Rodman Heeren, the son of Fernanda Wanamaker of the Philadelphia department store dynasty, and of Spanish diplomat Arturo Hereen. Shortly after Rodman Heeren returned from the Pacific, where he served with the U.S. Army, the couple moved to Europe, establishing a base in Biarritz, France, from where they traveled frequently. Aimee, who had received only a basic education in Brazil, but armed with an all-consuming desire to learn, went about collecting friends among aristocrats, intellectuals, and artists who offered her their wisdom and experience. Very quickly she learned to speak six languages, not perfectly, but well enough so as to enable her to move around society in a spectacular manner. Initially, she was admired for her beauty and her charm, but soon she became known for her elegance, on one hand, and on the other for her graciousness as a hostess and for her talent in creating exquisite decors within her homes. She was elected to the Best Dressed List and later was admitted to the Fashion Hall of Fame, not just for adhering to fashion but more for reinterpreting it with originality and taste. She was the epitome of glamour. Rodman and Aimee maintained homes in Biarritz, New York, and, later Palm Beach, houses which illustrated the development of her refined taste in decorating. In her later years, her good health and extraordinary energy allowed her to lead an active life, surrounded by friends of all ages. She was generous towards her friends and relations, especially towards those who were less privileged than she was. Undoubtedly she was one of the last grand dames, and she will leave an imprint on her era. She is survived by a daughter, Cristina Noble, and her granddaughter Victoria Noble. Mrs. Heeren will be buried in Palm Beach following a Religious Service at St. Ann's Church at 310 North Olive Ave, West Palm Beach, on Monday September 18th at 10:30 a.m. On Thursday, September 21, a memorial service will be held at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on Park Ave. and 84th St. at 4:30 p.m. Flowers are welcome and so are donations to Voices for Children Foundation, 1500 NW 12th Ave., Suite 1117, Miami, FL 33136.
      