
        BONDER--Diane A. This notes the sad and untimely death of independent filmmaker Diane A. Bonder, 46. Diane died at her home in Brooklyn on June 23, almost a year after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. She was predeceased by her beloved father John Bonder and mother Geraldine (Cleerdin) Bonder, and is survived by her partner Terri Burger, her aunt Virginia, uncle Bob, cousin Mark and his children Lauren and Steven, as well as by her dear friends--her other family. Diane made lo-fi experimental film and video in documentary, poetic, and semi-narrative styles. She maintained a longstanding relationship with Millennium Film Workshop, where she taught herself the optical printing techniques which became part of her signature visual style. Retrospective screenings of her work have been held at MoMA, Hall Walls (Buffalo) and Millennium Film Workshop, and Diane was a regular contributor to both the Mix NYC and Mad Cat Women's Festivals. In addition to residencies at UCross (Wyoming) and Squeaky Wheel (Buffalo, NY), she received numerous grants including NYFA and NYSCA in 2003. Her work has screened throughout the US and internationally and received many awards. A former resident of Northampton and Boston, MA, Diane graduated with her BA from UMAss Amherst, studied photography at the Photographic Resource Center in Boston and received her MFA from Rutgers University. In 1996 Diane made Brooklyn, NY, her home. In addition to being an accomplished and prolific filmmaker, she also ran her own graphic design company, Rat Star Designs, catering primarily to nonprofit organizations. Diane was loving, strong, passionate, creative, feisty, frugal, determined, loyal and an inspiration. Cherished and loved by her many close friends and family, she will be forever missed. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held beginning at 11:30 AM, Saturday, September 16, at St. Mark's Sanctuary (Dan space), 131 East 10th St., Manhattan. A fund has been established to support experimental filmmakers in Diane's name. Contributions may be sent to the ''Diane Bonder Memorial Fund'' at Millennium Film Workshop, 66 East 4th St., NYC, NY 10003.
      