
        FEINBERG--Lotte E., Suddenly on May 9, 2006. Memorial Service Wednesday, September 6, at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, Gerald Lynch Theatre, 899 Tenth Avenue at 3:15 PM. Lotte was the beloved of Edmund Sassoon, the devoted daughter of the late Dr. Isidor and Fanny Feinberg, and the loving sister of the late Herbert S. Feinberg, DMD. She leaves her Aunt Martha Kushner and many loving cousins. Professor Feinberg received her Bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College, her Master's degree from Harvard University, and her Ph.D. from New York University. Dr. Feinberg was a Professor of Public Management and she was at John Jay College for over thirty years. She served in a number of positions in government and nonprofit organizations including coordinating programs for the Massachusetts Migrant Education Project. She was Executive Director of Contemporary Systems, Inc., consultants specializing in education and urban action. She was a noted scholar on the history of the Freedom of Information Act and the Federal Register. Her major fields of research included public sector management, organizational ethics and information policy. She served on the editorial boards of a number of professional journals including Criminal Justice Ethics, Criminal Justice Review, Public Administration Review and the Journal of Drug Issues. Dr. Feinberg was active in the American Society for Public Administration and served as the publisher of ASPA's journal, ''The Key.'' Her research was published in a number of books and journals and she received many awards in recognition of her service and scholarship. She was past President of the New York State Political Science Association and an active member in other academic and professional societies. She was passionate about justice and ethical conduct and with unyielding dedication she inspired and guided her many students. Lotte was an enthusiastic sportswoman, dancer, painter, pianist and world traveler. She filled the proverbial unforgiving minute with sixty seconds' worth of distance run. One can only imagine the more wonderful things she would have accomplished. She will be missed.
      