
        LINDENBAUM--Belle. Aunt Belle, you were a quintessential elegant lady. We mourn your passing, but cherish your legacy of wit, warmth and wisdom. Our love and sympathy to Sandy, Linda, and the entire Lindenbaum family. Karen and Paul Bonheim $(6$)LINDENBAUM--Belle. A bright, beautiful and caring sister who was always there for her family. She will live on in our hearts and minds forever. Our sympathy to the whole Lindenbaum family. Pearl and Al Grey $(6$)LINDENBAUM--Belle. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Belle Lindenbaum, mother of our long time friend and Honorary Chairman of our Executive Committee Samuel H. Lindenbaum. We offer heartfelt condolences to Linda and Sandy, Erica, Laurie and the entire family. Stephen S. Lash, President James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir, IM Monique Birenbaum, Executive Director, AFIM $(6$)LINDENBAUM--Belle. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with profound sadness the passing of Belle Lindenbaum, beloved mother of our dedicated longtime Trustee Sandy Lindenbaum, and wife of the late Abraham (Bunny) Lindenbaum who also served on JASA's Board. We extend our deepest condolences to Sandy and his wife Linda, their daughters Erica and Laurie, and the entire Lindenbaum family at this time of sorrow. David M. Warren, President Aileen Gitelson, CEO $(6$)LINDENBAUM--Belle. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Belle Lindenbaum, mother of Sandy and Linda, grandmother of Erica (Steven M. Tishman) and Laurie (Robert A. Horne), and greatgrandmother of Adam, Stuart, and Julia Tishman, and Sarah, Max, and Rachel Horne. She lived a full life and her memory will live on. Jane Lisman Katz '65, Chair John R. Johnson, Headmaster $(6$)LINDENBAUM -- Belle (nee Axelrad). Died peacefully in her 98th year on September 17, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Abraham M. (Bunny). Devoted mother of Sandy and Linda. Loving grandmother of Erica (Steven M. Tishman) and Laurie (Robert A. Horne). Cherished greatgrandmother of Adam, Stuart and Julia Tishman, and Sarah, Max and Rachel Horne. Adored sister of Claire Feiden and Pearl Grey. She was the family's beautiful and elegant matriarch. Her warmth, love, generosity and, especially, her sense of humor will never be forgotten. Funeral services private. Shiva will be observed on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at the home of Linda and Sandy Lindenbaum, from 5 to 8 pm. $(6$)LINDENBAUM -- Belle. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Belle Lindenbaum, whose generosity enables us to enrich the lives of millions around the world. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her children Sandy and Linda; her grandchildren: Erica, Steven, Laurie and Robert, treasured leaders whose dedicated commitment to the New York Jewish community strengthen our ability to serve those in need; and to Belle's entire extended family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      