
        RICHARDS--Ann. The Board, staff and friends of Freedom Institute mourn the death of a great leader and true champion, whose openness about her recovery from alcoholism inspired so many. Nancy I. Stahl, Board Chair Connie Murray, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)RICHARDS--Ann. September 13, 2006. Respected and beloved Trustee of Save the Children, the independent organization creating lasting change for children in need in the United States and around the world. Ann opened doors, opened hearts and opened hope for children living in some of the poorest, most unstable parts of the world. She also worked tirelessly for children in our programs in the United States. She did not hesitate to use her influence, values and global network to call upon governments, institutions and supporters to help improve the children's lives. They and we have lost a unique voice of humanity, humor and hope. Our deepest condolences to Ann's children, Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen Richards, and her eight grandchildren. Board of Trustees of Save the Children Federation, Inc.
        $(6$)RICHARDS--Ann. The New School and Milano The New School for Management and Urban Policy mourn the passing of board of governors member and dear friend, Ann Richards. Governor Richards' lifelong dedication to publicservice, her commitment to social and economic justice, and her incisive understanding of political leadership exemplified the aspirations of our students. Governor Richards was a strong voice on the board, helping to build the school for the benefit of our students, faculty, and alumni. Governor Richards' presence at The New School will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Fred Hochberg, Dean, MilanoThe New School for Management & Urban Policy Bob Kerrey, President, The New School Philip Scaturro, Chair, Board of Trustees
        $(6$)RICHARDS--Ann. Planned Parenthood of NYC, its Board of Directors, Council of Advocates and Staff mourn the death of Ann Richards, a remarkable women whose wit, tenacity and vision captivated and inspired us. We extend our heartfelt sympathies on the loss of this feminist activist and women's rights champion to her daughter Cecile Richards, and their entire family. Laura Philips, Chair, PPNYC Board of Directors Joan Malin, Pres & CEO
      