
        GARNETT--William A. World famous aerial photographer William A. Garnett passed away at his home in Napa surrounded by family Saturday, August 26th. He was 89. Garnett is widely acknowledged to have defined aerial photography as an art form. Bill began his interest in photography at an early age building a darkroom with his brother Bernarr in their home in Pasadena Ca. His high school photography teacher, Earl Baird, inspired him to pursue a career as a photographer. After high school he attended Art Center School of Los Angeles. Bernarr can also be credited with kindling Bill's interest in flying using hard earned cash to buy a shared ride in the front seat of a bi-plane. Garnett's early commercial work included portraiture, architectural, sports and police photography. He was also trained as a motion picture photographer in the Army Signal Corps during World War II. On his discharge from the service, Bill hitched a ride flying home in the navigator seat of a troop transport. As he saw the beautiful landscape unfolding below him in the early morning light, he had an epiphany. He resolved to learn to fly and capture the beauty he saw to share with others. He got his pilots license on the GI Bill and began flying for pictures. Encouraged by his friends from Art Center School along with Dick McGraw and Edward Weston, he applied for and got the first of a record three Guggenheim Fellowships to further his work in 1953. Garnett loved to teach. He taught at a number of workshops with long time friend Ansel Adams in Yosemite. Garnett was hired as the Chairman of the Department of Design at UC Berkeley in 1968 where he taught photography until he retired as professor emeritus in 1984. He was also on the faculty of MIT. Many of his students have gone on to become great photographers in their own right. Garnett's work has been exhibited and sold in over 200 galleries and museums worldwide including The George Eastman House where he had his first one - man show, The Museums of Modern Art in New York and San Francisco, The Metropolitan Museum of New York, The J. Paul Getty Museum, and The Smithsonian Institution. Garnett's work has appeared in hundreds of publications including: Life and Fortune magazines, Edward Steichen's The Family of Man, Nathaniel Owings' The American Aesthetic, as well as his own books, The Extraordinary Landscape and William Garnett, Aerial Photographs. Garnett made his home on a hillside he spotted from the air in Napa California where he also tended a small vineyard. Bill is survived by his beloved wife of 64 years, Eula Beal Garnett, a talented artist in her own right. Eula had a career as a concert contralto touring the U.S. in the 40s and sang in the motion picture Concert Magic with Yehudi Menuhin in 1947. Garnett also leaves behind three sons Bill, Jay and Don; their wives Susan Nancy and Kathy; three grandchildren Erin, Nick and Geoff, as well as many goodfriends. Services are private but a celebration of his life and showing of his work will be planned for a later date. In lieu of flowers the family requests you make a donation to the educational institution or charitable organization of your choice. For information: Richard Pierce Funeral Service, Napa, CA.
      