
        DANIELS--John Hancock, 84. of Mulberry Plantation, Camden, South Carolina, died Monday, September 18, 2006. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota, October 28, 1921, he was the son of Thomas Leonard Daniels and Frances Hancock Daniels and the grandson of John W. Daniels, one of the founders of Archer Daniels Midland Co. He is survived by his wife, the former Martha Hill Williams, to whom he was married December 23, 1942. He leaves two sons, John H. Daniels Jr. of Minneapolis, MN and Christopher W. Daniels of Denver, CO and two daughters, Martha M. Daniels of Washington State and Mulberry Plantation and Dr. Jane D. Moffett of Sleepy Hollow, NY, as well as eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Mr. Daniels was graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy, 1939, Yale University, 1943, and the Advanced Management Program, Harvard, 1957. In World War II he served from 2nd Lt. to Capt., in the European theatre, with the 738th Field Artillery Battalion of 8-inch howitzers. He was awarded the Bronze Star. In later life he served as Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army, and was awarded the U.S. Army Outstanding Civilian Service Medal. After World War II, he joined Archer Daniels Midland Co., an agricultural products firm then based in Minneapolis, where he served in various capacities for 50 years. He became President and CEO of ADM in 1958. He served on ADM's Board of Directors from 1958 through 1996, performing as Chairman of the Board from 1968 through 1972. He also served as a member of the Executive Committee. In his final two years as a Board member he Co-chaired with former Canadian PM, Brian Mulroney, the Special Shareholders' Committee which represented the interests of ADM's shareholders in a Federal law-enforcement investigation into the misconduct of ADM executives. He served as President of Mulberry Plantation, Inc. from 1970 until 1993. He was a Master of Foxhounds of The Camden Hunt (SC). He cofounded and served as the joint master of two foxhunts, The Long Lake Hounds (MN) and The Old Stonington Hunt (Ill.) Mr. Daniels became a member of The Business Council in 1962. He was a member of the Committee for Economic Development. He was a member of the Woodhill Country Club, The Elizabethan Club, The Grolier Club, The Links Club, The Lafayette Club and The Camden Country Club and a former director of The Springdale Hall Club. While at Yale, Mr. Daniels was a member of the singing groups, The Wiffenpoofs and The Spizzwinks and remained a lifelong supporter of those organizations. Also at Yale, Mr. Daniels was captain of the Yale Polo team, a sport he continued to play and follow later in life. He has served as a Trustee of the Yale Library Associates, The Exeter Trustees Council and as Permanent Secretary, 738th Field Artillery Battalion Association. For many years and until his death he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Carolina Cup and Colonial Cup steeplechases, held in spring and fall in Camden, SC. A longtime collector of rare sporting books, John Daniels, with his wife, donated some 5,000 volumes to help launch The National Sporting Library in Middleburg, Virginia, where he served as Director and Director Emeritus. He was the author of several articles, monographs and books, including ''War Diary''(1948),''And Then What Happened? MayDec 1945'' (1982), ''Nothing Could Be Finer''(1996/reprint 2006),''Affectionately H''(1999) and ''In the Boat! -A Ninety Year History of The St. Croix Fly - Fishing Club''(2003). Services will be held at The Quaker Cemetery, Camden, South Carolina, at 3 PM, Saturday, September 23, 2006. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to The Fine Arts Center of Kershaw County, P.O. Box 1498, Camden, South Carolina 29021. Kornegay Funeral Home Camden Chapel is in charge of the services.
      