
        HUVOS--Andrew. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Andrew G. Huvos. Dr. Huvos was internationally acknowledged for his expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of bone tumors. His description of the features of chemotherapeutic response in the treatment of osteogenic sarcoma, the most common bone tumor in children, represents, to date, the standard for predicting prognosis. He was also a widely recognized expert on the diagnosis and treatment of various head and neck tumors, especially tumors of the salivary gland. He first came to Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in 1967 as a fellow in oncologic pathology, was offered a position as chief fellow the following year, and joined the staff in 1969. At the time of his death, Dr. Huvos was an Attending Pathologist and Member of Memorial Hospital. During 37 years at the Center, thousands of patients had the benefit of his gifts as a pathologist, and his work will continue to benefit patients with cancer in the future. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife and family. Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman Boards of Overseers and Managers Richard I. Beattie, Vice Chairman Harold Varmus, President John R. Gunn, Executive Vice President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        HUVOS--Andrew. The Medical Board and staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases note with sadness the death of our esteemed colleague, Andrew G. Huvos. Dr. Huvos joined the staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in 1969 and rose to become Attending Pathologist and Member of Memorial Hospital, ranks that he held at the time of his death. He was one of the world's foremost authorities on the surgical pathology of bone tumors and neoplasms of the salivary glands and other sites in the head and neck. Few pathologists contributed as much to the charting of these lesions' clinical biology and to the difficult issues of their classification and prognostic assessment. He was the author of 400 peer-reviewed, original contributions to the literature, as well as the author of a classic textbook on the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of bone tumors. Dr. Huvos was the recipient of many honors, including the prestigious Henry L. Jaffe Award in Orthopedic Pathology, and the President's Medal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology. An ardent teacher. Dr. Huvos mentored hundreds of students who ensure that his legacy will span generations, and his keen intellect, creativity, and personal warmth will be missed by all who knew him. Robert E. Wittes, M.D. Physician-in-Chief and Chairman of the Medical Board Memorial Hospital
      