
        SCUDDER--Rogers V. 93, of Groton. Rogers V. Scudder Teacher, Scholar, Author. Rogers V. Scudder, a beloved and renowned teacher of Latin, died on Sunday, August 27, 2006. He was 93 years old and lived in Groton, Massachusetts. Born in St. Louis in 1912, Mr. Scudder attended St. Louis Country Day School. He graduated magna cum laude in Comparative Literature from Harvard University in1934, earned a Diploma in Classical Archaeology at Oxford in 1955, and a masters degree from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, in 1958. MR. Scudder joined the American Field Service during World War II, and was an ambulance driver for part of that time. He served in the British Eighth Army for two years in Syria, North Africa and Italy. Mr. Scudder began his long and distinguished teaching career at the Roxbury Latin School in 1934 as an apprentice. Later, after a few years of teaching at Los Alamos School in New Mexico, he joined the faculty at Brooks School in 1936 where he taught until 1966. He joined the Groton School faculty in the spring of 1968 and continued to teach and then tutor until 2005. In the 1960s, he began his collaboration with Charles Jenney, Jr., on a fourVolume series of textbooks, which would become the most widely used Latin textbooks in the United States for nearly two decades. Mr. Scudder also served as The director of the Library at the American Academy in Rome from 1976-1983, overseeing its splendid collection in the fields of classical studies and the fine arts of the Italian Renaissance. An admired teacher and dormitory master, Mr. Scudder was known for his quick wit, which earned him legions of devoted students. When he arrived back from Rome to Groton School in 1984, he wrote: ''I return now to teach full time, a rather presumptuous undertaking for one of my advanced years.'' He continued to teach for another 20 years, generously sharing his wisdom, time and resources. So revered was he by the student body that the snack bar in the Student Center was named ''Scudder's'' in his honor. A memorial service will be held at St. John's Chapel at groton School on Sunday, September 24, at 1:00 p.m. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to a faVorite charity or institution.
      