
        LEVY--Leon, 84, deceased September 19. Husband of Elsi, father of Mark (Lillian), Mimi Frank (Alan), Judith Safran (Robert), Janet Pahima (Mordehai); grandfather of Lora Cover (Avidan), Lisa Levy, Jarod and Samantha Frank, Elana, Matthew and Amalia Safran, Yonadav, Elad and Annabelle Pahima; great-grandfather of Ruby and Solomon Cover. Funeral services will be held at Congregation Shearith Israel, 8 W. 70 St., Manhattan, at 11am Thursday, September 21.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. We mourn the loss of our founder, leader and driving force or our company. He was generous in giving advice and counsel and encouraged all of us to do the best that we can. We will always remember his kindness and dedication and we will miss him dearly. The Partners and Staff of Urban Foundation Engineering, LLC.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) mourns the passing of longtime activist and great community leader Leon Levy.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The Center for Jewish History mourns the passing of one of its founders, who as the former chairman of the American Sephardi Federation, helped to create a magnificent institution. He was an intelligent and generous force in his loyal and steadfast support of the Center. We will miss our dear friend and leader. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Center for Jewish History
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The Queens College community mourns the loss of Leon Levy. A Queens College alumnus and founding member of our Center for Jewish Studies, Leon Levy was a wise voice on the Center's Advisory Board and a generous supporter of its Cantors Concerts and cultural and lecture series. We offer our deepest condolences to his wife, Elsi, and all the members of his family.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. Bar-llan University and its American Friends mourn the passing of Leon Levy, z''l. Widely admired as a leader of many important Jewish organizations, Leon Levy actively supported the mission of Barllan University. At Bar-llan, he was a much respected member of the University's Global Board of Trustees as well as a member of the American Board of Trustees. He was also a Presidential Founder of our University and benefactor of the Doctoral of Fellowships of Excellence program and was involved with many other activities at the University. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Elsi, son Mark (Lillian), daughters Mimi (Alan), Judy (Robert), Janet (Moti) and the entire family. May they draw solace from inspiring memories and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-llan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-llan University Peter Rzepka, President, American Friends of Bar-llan University Gen. (ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The World Jewish Congress and WJC American Section mourn the loss of Leon Levy, long-standing officer and loyal friend. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Stephen E. Herbits, Secretary General Israel Singer, Chairman, Policy Council Evelyn Sommer, Chair, American Section
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. On behalf of the trustees, administration, and clinical leadership of New York Hospital Queens, we mark the passing of Leon Levy. Leon Levy was a bright light for New York Hospital Queens, where he served as a board member since 2003. He brought his deep knowledge of engineering as well as business expertise and a strong sense of support for community and philanthropy to everything in which he participated. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences go to his wife Elsi, his daughters, son, and many grandchildren. George F. Heinrich, M.D., Chairman Stephen S. Mills, President and CEO
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon, The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our esteemed Board member, Leon Levy. Deeply involved in community affairs, Leon applied his technical expertise in civil engineering to help alleviate some of society's greatest humanitarian problems. A past member of our Executive Committee, he helped JDC respond to disasters around the world. On behalf of JDC's International Development Program, he traveled to Armenia in 1990 following that country's devastating earthquake and oversaw the building of a permanent rehabilitation center. After the first Gulf War, he traveled to Turkey to help JDC construct temporary schools and set up a mobile hospital for Kurdish refugees fleeing Iraq. A past chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and Honorary Lifetime President of the American Sephardi Federation, Leon's devotion to Israel, to the Jewish people, and to the Sephardi community was part of his life's blood. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Elsi, and to their children, grandchildren, and great-grandchilren. May his memory be for a blessing. Judge Ellen M. Heller, President Eugene J. Ribakoff, Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager, Executive Vice-President
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of its beloved and esteemed past chairman, Leon Levy. He dedicated his life to the Jewish community and Israel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and children. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Harold Tanner, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The Queens College Center for Jewish Studies mourns the passing of Leon Levy, visionary, benefactor, supporter and true friend. We will miss you. Heartfelt condolences to Elsi & family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Arthur Anderman, Chairman of the Board Professors Mark Rosenblum and William Helmreich
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member, outstanding communal leader, and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. You were a special part of our lives and we will forever treasure the years we shared together. Marci and Herb
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. We deeply regret the passing of Leon Levy, our esteemed colleague, Honorary Vice President of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. Leon, his wife Elsi and family were dedicated benefactors of the nursing home. He was an exceptional person, deeply rooted for so many years to the Sephardic/Balkan community, serving as the National President of the American Sephardi Federation. He will always be remembered for his steadfast support of and devotion to many Sephardic organizations and projects. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Elsi, children, Mark, Mimi, Judy and Janet, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Officers and Bd of Directors of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehabilitation Cntr & LASHA Clifton Russo, Chm of the Bd Michael Lopez, President Elliott Passo, VP Michael New, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Leon Levy, a cherished leader whose compassion and generosity strengthened our ability to help the most vulnerable members of our community. Through his inspiring efforts as a member of our Board of Directors, he touched the lives of millions of people in New York and around the world. A beloved and respected leader in the Sephardic and Queens Jewish communities, he will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Elsi; his children Mark, Mimi, Judith, and Janet; his nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren; and to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)LEVY--Leon. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and leader of the Sephardic Community. Leon Levy was a giant, a man of vision who through his generosity and personal charm brought us all together. His leadership at the American Sephardi Federation, Sephardic House, the Center for Jewish History, Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations, Shearith Israel and so many other organizations will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and children. We have all lost a great man. Joel and Laurel Marcus
      