
        MICHEL--George W., 83, passed away at the Hope Hospice House in Bonita Springs, Florida on August 30, 2006. He was preceded in death by his parents, William and Vasiliki, brother, Alfred, and sisters, Marie Costas and Aphrodite Fordes, as well as his late wife, Helen Manning Michel. He is survived by his loving wife, Gloria PumroyMichel, step-son Joseph Sweeney (Marie), stepchildren Susan (Norman) Tacktill and Michael (Jerri) Pumroy, three grandchildren, Laura Riker (Robert), Robin Beecher (John) and David Sweeney, and four great-grandchildren, Jonathan and Alison Riker and Timothy and Daniel Beecher. He is also survived by nieces Celia Costas, Kathleen (David) Zelman, Deborah (Bill) Anaganostakos and Colleen (Marc) Osten, nephews William N. Fordes (Taryn) and George D. Fordes (Julie), and William A. Michel (Camille), Kevin (Linda) Manning as well as several grandnephews and grandnieces. He will be deeply missed by a multitude of friends who knew him as a kind, generous and gentle man with a great sense of humor and a positive attitude. George was born in Neponsit, NY, on October 1, 1922. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received his bachelor of Laws degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1955. He was a veteran of World War II, having served in the Air Force in the Asian-Pacific theater of operations. He was owner, manager and congenial host, along with his brother, sisters and brother-in-law Nick Fordes, of the Brooklyn landmark restaurant, MICHEL'S, established in 1910 by his father, William. MICHEL'S, located on Flatbush Avenue near Grand Army Plaza, was home to generations of Brooklyn diners, including many players from the Brooklyn Dodgers Baseball Franchise, among them Jackie Robinson, when the team played at Ebbets Field. The restaurant closed in 1975. George's great love and generosity to his family was matched only by his passion for golf. For over seventy years, he pursued a game that defines precision, dedication, etiquette, and adherence to the rules of play. An accomplished player, he had seven holes-in-one, the most recent at Gardiners Bay Country Club in Shelter Island, New York, at the age of 80. A funeral service will be held on Saturday, September 9, 2006, at 11 a.m. at St. Constantine and Helen's Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Brooklyn, NY. Interment will follow in Cypress Hills Cemetery in Brooklyn. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent in George's memory to Hope Hospice, 9470 Healthpark Circle, Fort Meyers, Fl 33908.
      