
        GREENOUGH--Peter B. , on September 6th, 2006. Beloved husband of 49 years of Beverly Sills. Loving father of Lindley, Nancy, Diana, Meredith and Peter, Jr. and grandfather of Allyson and Geoffrey. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the New York City Chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society. Funeral private.
        GREENOUGH--Peter. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Peter, devoted husband of Board member Beverly Sills Greenough, and extend our sympathy and condolences to Beverly and the family. John B. Beinecke, Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        GREENOUGH--Peter B. New York City Opera notes with sadness the passing of Peter Greenough, husband of our former General Director and leading soprano Beverly Sills, and our good friend, supporter and champion. He was a member of the City Opera family for many years, and, as such, we benefited greatly from his many kindnesses, as well as his patience. We extend our deepest sympathy to Beverly, Muffy, and Bucky, his family and his many friends. Susan L. Baker, Chairman Paul Kellogg, General Director and the City Opera Family
        GREENOUGH--Peter. A good friend. To Beverly and Muffy, our love and condolences. Susan and Jack Rudin
        GREENOUGH--Peter B. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the passing of Peter Greenough, for 50 years the adored husband, best friend and greatest fan of Beverly Sills Greenough, Chairman Emerita of the Met's Board. We extend our deepest condolences to Beverly, to their children, Meredith (Muffy) Greenough and Peter B. Greenough, Jr., and to Peter's daughters, Lindley, Nancy and Diana, as well as to their families and friends. Christine F. Hunter, Chairman William C. Morris, President and CEO Peter Gelb, General Manager James Levine, Music Dir.
        GREENOUGH--Peter. The Board and the entire staff of Lincoln Center Institute send deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Beverly Sills and her family. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Susan Rudin, Chairman Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director
        GREENOUGH -- Peter. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Peter Greenough, beloved husband of Beverly Sills, our Chairman Emeritus. Our thoughts and prayers are with Beverly and her family. Frank A. Bennack Jr., Chair Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
      