
        BLINDER--Richard. At the very week when Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York marks the restoration of its main sanctuary, the leadership and members of the Temple express their profound sadness on the passing of Richard Blinder. The firm of which he was such an integral part, Beyer, Blinder & Bell, was the Temple's partner in the physical revival of our spiritual home. Richard Blinder and all his brilliant associates provided the inspiration and the methodology for this historic task. May his memory be a blessing, and may his family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Marcia Waxman, President George Asch, Secretary $(6$)BLINDER--Richard L., FAIA. Founding Partner, Beyer Blinder Belle. The partners and staff of Beyer Blinder Belle Architects & Planners deeply mourn the loss of Richard L. Blinder, Founding Partner, friend and inspiration. Richard was just now at the pinnacle of his career-on the rise with no end in sight. We just wish he had stayed long enough to enjoy the fruits of his new work in China. Over the last ten years he found himself realizing more and more his vision of what architecture could be. He was a modest man--and yet his buildings are bold, clear and magnificent. The time and place of a memorial service celebrating his life will be announced shortly. $(6$)BLINDER--Richard L. Architect and honorary member of the national theatre community, he was an inspired collaborator. Everyone at Sachs Morgan Studio sends condolences to his family and to everyone at Beyer Blinder Belle. Ann Sachs, President Roger Morgan, Founder Sachs Morgan Studio Theatre Design Specialists $(6$)BLINDER--Richard L. On September 6, 2006. Beloved husband of 48 years of Ellen Blinder. Loving father of Michael, Karen and Robert D. Popper, Jr., her husband, and grandfather of Jeffrey Benjamin Popper. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Center for Jewish History or the James Marston Fitch Charitable Trust. Funeral private.
      