
        LIEBERMAN--Beverly (Trodgon) 54, of Highland Beach, FL and of Bigfork, MT peacefully left us on Sept 11, 2006 after a 12 year long battle with breast cancer. Her healing spirit, love of family and friends, and her ability to light up a room will be greatly missed. She is survived by her adored husband, Arthur Lieberman and her cherished children, Luke, Samantha, Mark & Ann Marie, Mitchell & Bethany, Shari & Amos Balaish, her nine grandchildren Timor, Andrew, Jake, Ori, Noah, Alex, Emma, Maytal and Rena, her parents Bill and Virginia Trodgon, her sisters, Jill Dwyer and Kathy Konigsberg and a large family of loving friends and relatives. She was a National Honor Student and Florida Regent Scholar in high school and graduated Magna Cum Laude at Sacred Heart University in Stamford, CT where she later served on the Board of Trustees. She had many accomplishments throughout her life and left us many gifts. She created SportsLab Theme Park which was Americas largest virtual interactive sports arena and it was later featured at the Summer Olympics in Atlanta, GA. Her visionary concepts for peace awarded her an invitation to be a part of the World Forum for Peace in NY and San Francisco, CA. With her sense of style and real estate savvy, she received the Award for Best Little House in America for one of the many homes she developed and was featured in House Beautiful Magazine and Log Cabin Magazine for their Log Cabin home in Montana that she designed and built with her husband. She was a seeker and passionate reader, pioneering new healing concepts. She was known for her infectious laugh and enjoyed family gatherings, friends, traveling, hiking and all things outdoors and near the water. The Memorial Service to Celebrate her Life will be held on Sunday, September 17, 2006 at The Coveleigh Club in Rye, NY at 11am (459 Stuyvesant Ave. directions at www.coveleighclub.com). The families will be accepting visitors Saturday -Monday, September 16-18. For details, please call (914) 741-0423. Her heart and soul will be forever laid to rest the following Thursday, Sept 21, 2006, 11 AM at their family home on Flat Head Lake in Montana where a service will be held for family and friends. Her passion for life, high energy, and her magnificent beauty will always be an inspiration for us for we were blessed to have known her. Donations are being accepted in her name online at Making Strides Against Breast Cancer. Go to MakingStrides.acsevents.org/Westchester and click on Find a Walker then Find her Team and type Love to Bev.
      