
        BLOCH--Robert W. Age 78. Passed away on October 14, 2006, from liposarcoma. For 51 years, beloved and irreplaceable husband of Deborah G. Bloch, loving father of Alexandra and father-in-law of Lawrence Jeydel, adored grandfather of Daniel Bloch Jeydel and dear brother-in-law of the late Marjorie and Robert Bachrach. Remembered for his strength of character, courage, integrity, indomitable spirit, broad range of friendships, sense of humor and zest for life. Since 1956, Mr. Bloch headed the New York based public relations and strategic marketing firm bearing his name which functioned professionally for globally recognized public and private organizations. Son of the late Hon. Maurice Bloch and Madeline Bloch, his father was the Minority Leader of the New York State Assembly and co-managed the 1928 campaign electing Franklin D. Roosevelt, Governor and Herbert H. Lehman, Lietuent Governor, prior to his untimely death a year later. Mr. Bloch graduated from the Franklin School and Stern School of Business, New York University. Serving in the US Marine Corps during the Korean conflict, Mr. Bloch completed a unique research project at the Library of Congress focusing on recordings made under combat by marine correspondents during WWII in the South Pacific, receiving commendation from the Commandant of the Marine Corps and the Librarian of Congress. He was active in community affairs for many organizations including Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York, the Jewish Museum, American Jewish Society for Service, the Wadsworth Athenaeum and Marine Corps. Touching so many lives, he will be missed by all who loved him. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Robert and Deborah Bloch Fund, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Society, 1275 York Ave, NYC 10021. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 81st St and Madison Ave, Wednesday, October 18, 1:30 pm. Entombment private.
        $(6$)BLOCH--Robert W. Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York expresses to the family of our cherished and devoted member, Robert W. Bloch, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. Dr. David M. Posner Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel Senior Rabbi Emeritus Marcia Waxman, President George Asch, Secretary
      