
        PEARCE--Sally. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with profound sorrow the passing of Sally Pearce, beloved wife of the late Henry Pearce. Sally and Henry, a founding Trustee of JASA, were a devoted couple whose caring, generosity and compassion were legendary. Their commitment to New York's aged helped shape our agency and profoundly touched so many lives. Sally was warm, charming, and a devoted partner to Henry. Her memory will live on in the hearts of all who knew her. We extend heartfelt condolences to her children, Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig, and their entire family. David M. Warren, President Aileen Gitelson, CEO
        $(6$)PEARCE--Sally. Passed away peacefully at home in her 92nd year on October 18, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Henry Pearce. Loving mother of Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig. Adored ''Nanna'' of her grandchildren J.P. Rosensweig, Julie and Paul Schwartz and Laurie and Jonathan Blank and of her great-grandchildren Jessie, Abby, Dani, Carly and Harrison. Sally's smile, eternal optimism, zest for life, and indomitable leadership will be remembered by all who were touched by her great love and spirit. Funeral services private. The family will receive from 3-5 pm on Friday ,October 20th.
        $(6$)PEARCE--Sally. The Sally Pearce Passover Outreach program of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of its founder, Sally Pearce. She will continue to be a role model for those of us who reach out to the needy. Doree Greenberg, Chair Sally Pearce Passover Outreach Beth Anisman, Chair, Volunteer Services Jamie Bloom, Acting Director, Volunteer Services
        $(6$)PEARCE--Sally The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sadness the death of Sally Pearce. A devoted trustee and beloved volunteer, Sally was founder and longstanding chair of the agency's Passover Outreach program which ensured celebration of the holiday and provision of services to thousands of Jews in need. Sally was always gracious and reminded us of the enormous contribution of volunteers at JBFCS and in human services in general. We were so fortunate to have her as part of our family for so many years. Our condolences to her family and friends. John A Herrmann, President Alan B. Siskind, Executive Vice President and CEO
        $(6$)PEARCE--Sally. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
        $(6$)PEARCE--Sally. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sally Pearce, a treasured leader and supporter of UJA-Federation and our beneficiary agencies, who founded the Sally Pearce Passover Outreach Program. A past secretary of our Board of Directors, Sally was a recipient of the Phyllis Tishman Memorial Award, for exemplary leadership in the UJA-Federation Women's Campaign. She and her late husband, Henry, will be remembered for their service, which helped to strengthen our ability to serve those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sally's children: Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig, her grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      