
        GOLDRING--Allen A. Founding Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Goldring International Group of Woodbury, New York, and philanthropist, died suddenly on Sunday, October 15 at age 83. Born in Brooklyn on May 2, 1923, Allen Goldring graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn and received his Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Cornell University. His World War II service entailed three years in France and Germany. He often told the dramatic story of how, in 1945, his unit was being sent to Japan to engage in battle when VJ Day was declared and the transport ship turned around mid-ocean to return to the U.S. On arriving home, he expanded a local car dealership owned by his father, Joseph G. Goldring, and founded the international company, Overseas Military Sales Group, whose principal business is the marketing and distribution of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles and related financial products to U.S. and British military consumer markets on military installations and U.S. Naval vessels. The company also sells to government agencies, multi-national corporations and international executives assigned overseas. Headquartered in Woodbury, NY, the Goldring International Group's operations encompass the U.S. and 27 countries in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East and has 400 employees worldwide. A dedicated philanthropist, Mr. Goldring directed the Joseph G. Goldring Charitable Foundation, which supports programs in medical research as well as cultural and educational activities. Through the foundation, he endowed a chair at the Skirball Center of New York University Medical Center, as well as a Fellowship at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, among other activities. He and his wife, Lola, supported the Goldring Arts Journalism Program at Syracuse University, to teach journalists to write about the arts and culture. An enthusiastic admirer and collector of contemporary art, he was a founding trustee of The New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York City. His other passions were opera and golf. He was a life member of the board of trustees of New York University Medical School, and a supporter of arts and charitable organizations such as the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Ballet, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, United Jewish Appeal and The New Museum. He served on numerous boards, including the Metropolitan Presidents Organization, Restaurant Associates, Inc., the World Presidents' Organization Foundation, and the Berlin Airlift Memorial Foundation. A notable business leader, he served as the president of World Presidents' Association (WPO) in 1987 and received an Honorary Doctor of Law Degree from The American College of Switzerland in 1986. Mr. Goldring was a member of the University Club of New York, Confrerie de la Chaine des Rotisseurs, North Shore Country Club, the Admirals Club and the Bear's Club of Jupiter, Florida. Beloved husband of Lola. Father of Laurie Wolfert, Jamie Baldinger, and David Goldring. Grandfather of Samantha and Benjamin Wolfert; Aaron, Brooke and Gabriel Baldinger; and Olivia and Jason Goldring. Brother of Rita Frey. The funeral service will be held at Temple Beth El of Great Neck at 11:30 am on Tuesday, October 17 with burial to follow at Mount Hebron Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory or to the Cardiac Critical Care Unit of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY.
      