
        MURPHY--Vincent B., Jr., a former Executive Managing Partner with Salomon Brothers and a senior executive with Merrill Lynch, died at his home in Far Hills, N.J. from complications with Alzheimer's. He was 78. In 1964, he joined Salomon Brothers, and became a General Partner at the young age of 39. At Salomon, Murphy was instrumental in the design and functionality of the trading floor known as ''The Room''. He was an Executive Managing Partner for a number of years before leaving to join Merrill Lynch in 1980. At Merrill, Mr. Murphy was President of Merrill Lynch Capital Resources, Inc. and then Special Assistant to the Chairman. Born in Rochester, New York, Mr. Murphy graduated from Yale University and attended Wharton Graduate School. He served as a marine in the Korean War earning the rank of Major and received the Purple Heart. A devout Catholic, he was anointed a member of the Knights of St. Gregory, Knight and former member of the Board of Councillors of the Knights of Malta and a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. He served on the Board of Patrons of the Arts of the Vatican Museum and Canova Medal recipient. Murphy was the President of the U.S. Equestrian Team and Director of the National Horse Show and Devon Horse Show, as well as a member of the Board of Overseers of New Bolton Veterinarian Center. Murphy became the first Chairman of Liberty State Park Development Corporation. He is survived by his wife of 53 years Patricia Duffy Murphy; and their six children, Vincent, Patricia, Kevin, Daniel, Michaela, and Karen; twenty grandchildren, and a sister Sheelagh Masterson. The viewing will be at his home on Thursday from 4-8 pm and the mass will be at St. Brigid's Church in Peapack, NJ on Friday at 11 am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Vincent B. Murphy, Jr. Memorial Fund at the Alzheimer's Association, 300 Lexington Avenue, Sixth Floor, New York, NY 10017. For more info please contact Bailey Funeral Home of Peapack. 908-234-0590
      