
        SILVAN--Matthew, We are devastated to announce the sudden passing of Matthew Silvan. Dr. Silvan, a Ph.D. in psychology and a gifted clinician, was a graduate of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, a psychoanalyst in private practice, and the director of Psychocutaneous Medicine at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York City. He was greatly admired and respected by his colleagues and immensely loved by his family and friends. He is survived by his adoring wife Carmen Grau, Ph.D., his daughters Ariana, 13, and Mia, 10, his brother Jon and sister-in-law Marnie, his sisters Melanie and Dany and their families, his parents Mark Silvan and Helaine Shlasko (widow of his stepfather Bernie Shlasko), his stepmother Abby, his mother-in-law Felisa, his entire family in Barcelona, Spain, his many nieces and nephews, and numerous friends. We will miss him terribly and remember him forever for his passion for learning, his dedication to his profession, and his keen intellect. He was a devoted son and brother, an extraordinary husband, and an absolutely amazing father. Services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapels, 180 West 76th Street, Tuesday, October 3rd at 4pm. Contributions can be made to The Stroke Fund, Dept. of Neurology, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, NY, NY 10029
        $(6$)SILVAN--Matthew. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the untimely passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Matthew Silvan, Ph.D, Director of Psychocutaneous Medicine in our Department of Dermatology. A member of the hospital staff since 1988, Dr. Silvan was loved by his patients and deeply respected by all who knew him and worked with him. He will be greatly missed. To his wife, Carmen Grau, Ph.D., his two young daughters, the entire Silvan family and all of his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Richard F. Daines, M.D. President and CEO Donna Mendes, M.D. President, Medical Board Vincent A. DeLeo, M.D. Chairman, Deptartment of Dermatology
      