
        PROCARIO--Rudolph F., a native New Yorker, House Physician at Westchester Square Hospital, Staff Psychiatrist at New York's Rockland State Hospital and long time member of the New York Athletic Club died on October 25, 2006 in Manhattan. He was 82. Dr. Procario was born on June 6th, 1924 in Riverdale, New York, to the late Anna and Rudolph Procario, a distinguished architect and general contractor, remembered for renovations of several New York landmarks including Tavern on the Green and the Belasco Theater. Dr. Procario graduated from Manhattan College High School in June of 1941. While a student at Manhattan College, he joined the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor. He completed training as a radio operator at Scott Field, Illinois and was sent to the South Pacific in 1944, where he was assigned to U.S. Army Air Force's 13th Air Force. As a combat air-crewman aboard B-25 bombers he served in a variety of campaigns and locations including the Philippines, Leyte Gulf, Dutch New Guinea, and the Battle for Okinawa. At the conclusion of the war, Dr. Procario returned to Manhattan College and graduated in 1948. He received his medical training at Philadelphia Medical College and graduated in 1952. From 1952 through 1955, Dr. Procario served as House Physician at Westchester Square Hospital. He continued to practice medicine and surgery from 1956 through 1970 in private practice in Bronx, New York. In 1970, Dr. Procario entered Mt. Sinai Hospital Services for residency training in Psychiatry. Upon completing his residency, he served the State of New York at Rockland Psychiatric Center until his retirement in 1996. A life member of the New York Athletic Club. Dr. Procario was active in a variety of endeavors. Those close to his heart include athletics, the performing arts and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Specifically, Dr. Procario held organizational positions and offices at the New York Athletic Club, was a member of the New York Theater Guild and belonged to several charity organizations supporting the performing arts. Dr. Procario is survived by his nieces and nephews: Ann and John Tempone, Elaine, Elizabeth, Jack, Dan, Bill, Jim and Delia Sheridan as well as grand nieces and grand nephews; Tim, Kate, Matt, John, Michael and Kristen. He is fondly remembered by his close friends from the New York Athletic Club, including Dr. William Duggan and family. Funeral services will be at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave & 84th St. on Thursday November 2, 2006 at 11:30 am. Friends may call Wednesday 2-4 or 7-9 at Frank E. Campbell (The Funeral Chapel) 81st and Madison in New York City.
      