
        SCHAFFER--Irving. The family and employees of Case Paper are deeply saddened by the passing of Irving Schaffer at age 96 on October 3; he was a co-founder and past President of our company. Along with his late partners Oscar Kosh and David Kosh he led us from our earliest beginnings in 1943 to an organization with over 400 employees today. His leadership, generosity and good humor have been a source of comfort and inspiration for many years. Even after his retirement in 1988 he retained a keen interest in all our activities and remained helpful in many ways. He is survived by a sister, his four sons and his four daughters-in-law, 15 grandchildren and one greatgrandchild who will miss him greatly and mourn his passing. May his memory be for a blessing.
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Irving. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irving Schaffer. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        $(6$)SCHAFFER--Irving. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving Schaffer, a treasured leader and esteemed friend whose lifetime of service and generosity demonstrated a deep commitment to the Jewish community. Irving, honored in 2000 by UJA-Federation, was a former member of the Board of Directors and a leader in the Office Product and Paper Division. Irving and his late wife, Geraldine, left an everlasting impact and their legacy will live on. Their involvement helped to enrich the lives of millions. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children Peter & Eve-Marie, Andrew and Kiki, Frederick and Barbara, and Robin and Queenie; his 15 grandchildren and great-grandchild; and to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SCHAFFER -- Irving. We mourn the passing of Irving Schaffer, a generous and long-standing friend of The Jewish Theological Seminary. A founder of Temple Israel Center of White Plains, he believed in the primacy of the synagogue and the importance of serious Jewish education. His philanthropy included an impressive range of worthy Jewish causes. His acute mind, sunny disposition, and strong Jewish values will be sorely missed. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Arnold Eisen, Chancellor-elect Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
      