
        SANTRY--Marcine. Marcine Santry passed away on October 24th 2006 at 89 years of age. She was a graduate of Texas Christian University. After graduation she joined the U.S. Commercial Company that was under the auspices of the U.S. State Department ''Lend Lease to Russia'' where she served nine months in Cairo and seven months in Tehran. She was then sent to Berlin at the end of the war where General Dwight Eisenhower introduced her to Captain George J. Santry and they shortly thereafter were married. After the war remained in Germany, as George became Director of Foreign Trade for West Germany. Later they moved to Holland where George Santry joined the precast company Schokbeton and is credited for licensing collaborative of the post war reconstruction for Greenland. He took the rights for Shokbeton to the Western Hemisphere and opened the first plant in the U.S. He merged Shokbeton with American Metal Climax wherein he remained President for five years. His work took them to Holland, Sweden, Denmark, Italy and South America. George was an entrepreneur in a multitude of businesses known internationally ranging from architecture and construction concepts, airport lighting design, housing in South America, innovations in glass design at Corning Glass, and clean-up of oil spills. He worked with numerous architects such as Philip Johnson and Jan Rowan, his partner in R&S International where they consulted with European and American firms in the confluence of architecture and construction. In retirement, Marcine and her husband also founded the Black Swan Marina in Old Saybrook Connecticut. They enjoyed sailing and were members of the New York Yacht Club. New Canaan became their permanent residence where Marcine was a member of the League of Women Voters, a mentor to the children of the Norwalk outreach program. She was a volunteer at the New Canaan Library, and the Waveny Care Center. She was also involved in an Investment Group and most proudly was a member of the United Nations Study Group. She served on the Altar Guild at St. Mark's Church as well. Marcine is survived by her two daughters, Professor Karen F. Santry who is at the Fashion Institute of technology in New York City, and Dr. Susan M. Santry and her husband, Dr. Sidney Kaplan of Greenwich, Connecticut. She is also survived by her sister, Lola Rae Meadows of Texas. The memorial service with be held at the St. Mark's Episcopal Church in New Canaan, Monday October 30th, 2006 at 11:00 am. A reception in the library will follow. In lieu of flowers a contribution to an organization that promotes world peace would be most appreciated by Marcine. Services are made with the Hoyts Funeral Home at 203-966-0700.
      