
        GOLDRING--Allen A. Founding Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Goldring International Group of Woodbury, New York, and philanthropist, died suddenly on Sunday, October 15 at age 83. Born in Brooklyn on May 2, 1923, Allen Goldring graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn and received his Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Cornell University. His World War II service entailed three years in France and Germany. He often told the dramatic story of how, in 1945, his unit was being sent to Japan to engage in battle when VJ Day was declared and the transport ship turned around mid-ocean to return to the U.S. On arriving home, he expanded a local car dealership owned by his father, Joseph G. Goldring, and founded the international company, Overseas Military Sales Group, whose principal business is the marketing and distribution of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles and related financial products to U.S. and British military consumer markets on military installations and U.S. Naval vessels. The company also sells to government agencies, multi-national corporations and international executives assigned overseas. Headquartered in Woodbury, NY, the Goldring International Group's operations encompass the U.S. and 27 countries in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East and has 400 employees worldwide. A dedicated philanthropist, Mr. Goldring directed the Joseph G. Goldring Charitable Foundation, which supports programs in medical research as well as cultural and educational activities. Through the foundation, he endowed a chair at the Skirball Center of New York University Medical Center, as well as a Fellowship at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, among other activities. He and his wife, Lola, supported the Goldring Arts Journalism Program at Syracuse University, to teach journalists to write about the arts and culture. An enthusiastic admirer and collector of contemporary art, he was a founding trustee of The New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York City. His other passions were opera and golf. He was a life member of the board of trustees of New York University Medical School, and a supporter of arts and charitable organizations such as the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Ballet, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, United Jewish Appeal and The New Museum. He served on numerous boards, including the Metropolitan Presidents Organization, Restaurant Associates, Inc., the World Presidents' Organization Foundation, and the Berlin Airlift Memorial Foundation. A notable business leader, he served as the president of World Presidents' Association (WPO) in 1987 and received an Honorary Doctor of Law Degree from The American College of Switzerland in 1986. Mr. Goldring was a member of the University Club of New York, Confrerie de la Chaine des Rotisseurs, North Shore Country Club, the Admirals Club and the Bear's Club of Jupiter, Florida. Beloved husband of Lola. Father of Laurie Wolfert, Jamie Baldinger, and David Goldring. Grandfather of Samantha and Benjamin Wolfert; Aaron, Brooke and Gabriel Baldinger; and Olivia and Jason Goldring. Brother of Rita Frey. The funeral service will be held at Temple Beth El of Great Neck at 11:30 am on Tuesday, October 17 with burial to follow at Mount Hebron Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory or to the Cardiac Critical Care Unit of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY.
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The staff and trustees of the New Museum mourn the loss of Allen Goldring, a founding trustee, who helped establish the Museum and continued to guide it over the past 30 years. With his wife Lola, he has been a beloved and extremely valued member of the New Museum family. His generosity, strength, clarity and forthrightness have left a lasting impression on the institution and on all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to Lola and his children Laurie Wolfert, Jamie Baldinger, and David Goldring. Saul Dennison, President Lisa Phillips Henry Luce III Director
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University deeply mourns the passing of Allen Goldring, business entrepreneur, philanthropist and beloved husband of Lola Goldring, a trustee of SU. He was a man of vision and passion above all for his wife, Lola, and also for grand opera, contemporary visual arts, and a competitive round of golf. His generous philanthropy extended to cultural and scientific endeavors, and he lived an exemplary life dedicated to his family, to his worldwide business, and to public service. With Lola, he made a generous and significant gift to the S.I. Newhouse School at Syracuse University to make possible the Goldring Arts Journalism program, inaugurated in 2005. We extend our sympathies to Lola Goldring; daughter Laurie Wolfert and her husband, David; daughter Jamie Baldinger and her husband, Joseph; son David Goldring and his wife Rachel; as well as to Allen's seven grandchildren: Samantha and Benjamin Wolfert; Aaron, Brooke and Gabriel Baldinger; and Olivia and Jason Goldring; as well as to Allen's sister, Rita Frey. Allen Goldring's humor, his energy, and his loyal friendship will be forever missed by all who knew him. David M. Rubin, Dean S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Syracuse University
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen A. The faculty of the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Allen A. Goldring. A Life Trustee of NYU Medical Center, Mr. Goldring established an endowed professorship supporting cardiovascular research and medicine at NYU School of Medicine. An enthusiastic supporter of the arts and sciences, his generosity of spirit touched many of us. To his wife Lola, his children Laurie, Jamie, and David, we extend our deepest condolences. Glenn I. Fishman, M.D. William Goldring Professor of Medicine Director, Div. of Cardiology NYU School of Medicine
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen A. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Allen A. Goldring, Life Trustee, generous benefactor and retive of Roberta M. Goldring, M.D., Professor of Medicine, a distinguished faculty member. A Trustee since 1998, Mr. Goldring had established an endowed professorship in honor of his cousin, the late William Goldring, M.D., renowned hypertension researcher, alumnus and faculty member at the School of Medicine. An active member of our Accreditation Committee, Allen Goldring was an innovative businessman who built an international retail distribution company for motor vehicles, as well as a philanthropist who supported the arts and other charities. To his wife, Lola, his chidren Laurie, Jamie, and David, and to all who loved hIm, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman, NYU School of Medicine Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean, NYU School of Medicine
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Allen Goldring, whose generous and deep commitment to the Long Island Jewish community has enabled us to serve those in need, profoundly impacting lives in New York and the world. He has strengthened our ability to care for millions of lives around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Allen's wife, Lola; his children: Laurie and David, Jamie and Joseph, and David and Rachel; his grandchildren: Samantha, Benjamin, Aaron, Brooke, Gabriel, Olivia and Jason; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      