
        KOLB--Lawrence C., MD, a pioneer in psychiatric research and an innovator in the delivery of community care to the mentally ill, died on October 23, 2006 at the age of 95. He served as Director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Chairperson of the Department of Psychiatry at Columbia from 1954 to 1975 when he was appointed Commissioner of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene. Innovator, mentor and pioneer merely hint at Dr. Kolb's intellectual reach. Under his direction in the 1950's, the Psychiatric Institute assumed a leadership role in scientific pursuits embracing psychopharmacological testing when treatment for the mentally ill was restricted to psychoanalysis. He oversaw the development of mental health clinics still flourishing today in upper Manhattan, a concrete testimony to his dedication to developing novel programs to aid in recovery and to improve the quality of life of people in the community. His contributions to teaching--including psychiatric rotations in neighboring Presbyterian Hospital--vastly improved residency training. Extremely productive, Dr. Kolb published numerous articles including papers on psychoanalysis, community psychiatry, genetics and psychopharmacology. His work with Vietnam War veterans helped to build evidence for post-traumatic stress disorder as a legitimate ailment and he published more than 20 papers on the subject. He co-authored one of the most important textbooks on psychiatry for its time, Modern Clinical Psychiatry, now in its 10th edition. Dr. Kolb may have been an administrator, but he had a true love of research. The Institute's and the University's reputation as a premiere research center originated with his tenure. Today, the Institute's Kolb Annex, dedicated in his honor in 1982, is home to a variety of psychiatric research studies that represents the breadth of contemporary psychiatry and his own diverse interests. His loss will affect us all. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. New York State Psychiatric Institute Columbia University Department of Psychiatry Jeffrey A. Liebermann, MD Director and Chairman
        $(6$)KOLB--Lawrence C., M.D. New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourns the passing of Lawrence C. Kolb, former director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute from 1954 to 1975 and psychiatristin-chief at the Hospital during that period. Former president of the Presbyterian Hospital Medical Board and NY State Commissioner of Mental Hygiene, Dr. Kolb helped improve psychiatric treatment, especially among underserved populations, in the city, state and beyond. At the Hospital, he expanded the child psychiatry service and established a child psychiatry residency program. A guiding light in psychiatry, beloved by his patients, colleagues and students, Dr. Kolb will be dearly missed. Our condolences to his family. We have lost a wonderful friend and a great leader. Dr. Herbert Pardes President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
      