
        KOLBE--K. William. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of 13/WNET and WLIW New York, are saddened by the passing of K. William Kolbe. A director of the Friends of Thirteen Inc. for 11 years, Bill was second vice chairman and chairman of the Friends' Nominating Committee. We join Bill's wife Patsy and their family in mourning the loss of a great friend. James S. Tisch, Chairman William F. Baker, President Edward Mapp, Chairman Friends of Thirteen, Inc.
        $(6$)KOLBE--K. William. The attorneys and staff at Thelen Reid & Priest LLP mourn the passing of K. William Kolbe. A consummate gentleman, Bill was a long time partner, colleague, friend and inspiration. We wish to express our deepest sympathies and condolences to his family.
        $(6$)KOLBE--K. William Esq., of Essex Fells, NJ, died on October 15, 2006. Born in Passaic, NJ on September 29, 1926, he was a graduate of the Hill School, Pottstown, PA, Princeton University, class of '48, and the University of Virginia Law School in 1952. He worked for 53 years for the law firm of Thelen, Reid & Priest LLP in Manhattan, where he was a member of the University Club. He was a non-resident member of the Metropolitan Club of Washington, DC and the Chevy Chase Club, and the Farmington Country Club of Virginia. Membership also at the Montclair Golf Club, the Edgartown Yacht Club and the Edgartown Reading Room, where he was a summer subscriber. Predeceased by his first wife, Barbara Bogart Kolbe, he is survived by his wife of 121/2 years, Patricia (Lamborn Coward) Kolbe, three children, Kim Kolbe of Roseland, NJ, William (Buzz) Kolbe of Plano, TX and his wife Cindy Sue, and Katherine Kolbe of Vail, CO; seven stepchildren, and nine step grandchildren. He served on many Boards of Directors including the Friends of Thirteen, Inc. where he served as Corporate Counsel, the Bessemer Trust Company, Carolinas Cement Company, the World Trade Corporation, the Ocean Liner Museum, and the New Jersey Ballet Company. He was a member of the American Bar Association and served as Chairman of the Public Utility, Communications and Transportation Law Section from 1984-1985. He served in the United States Navy from 1944-1946. Visiting hours will be 2-4 pm and 7-9 pm on Friday, October 20 at his home in Essex Fells, NJ and a memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 21, at 11 am at St. Peter's Church, Roseland, Avenue, Essex Fells, NJ. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Offender Aid and Restoration of Essex County, 1064 Clinton Avenue, Suite 170, Irvington, NJ 07111 or The Cope Center Inc. 60 South Fullerton Avenue, Montclair, NJ 07042.
      