
        GOLDRING--Allen. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, A llen Goldring. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Howard S. Jacobs, President Sandra J. Ash, Secretary
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University deeply mourns the passing of Allen Goldring, business entrepreneur, philanthropist and beloved husband of Lola Goldring, a trustee of SU. He was a man of vision and passion above all for his wife, Lola, and also for grand opera, contemporary visual arts, and a competitive round of golf. His generous philanthropy extended to cultural and scientific endeavors, and he lived an exemplary life dedicated to his family, to his worldwide business, and to public service. With Lola, he made a generous and significant gift to the S.I. Newhouse School at Syracuse University to make possible the Goldring Arts Journalism program, inaugurated in 2005. We extend our sympathies to Lola Goldring; daughter Laurie Wolfert and her husband, David; daughter Jamie Baldinger and her husband, Joseph; son David Goldring and his wife Rachel; as well as to Allen's seven grandchildren: Samantha and Benjamin Wolfert; Aaron, Brooke and Gabriel Baldinger; and Olivia and Jason Goldring; as well as to Allen's sister, Rita Frey. Allen Goldring's humor, his energy, and his loyal friendship will be forever missed by all who knew him. David M. Rubin, Dean S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Syracuse University
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory mourn the passing of Allen Goldring whose generous and deep commitment to research and education funded multi-year fellowships at the Laboratory. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Lola, and their children, Laurie, Jamie and David and their seven grandchildren. Eduardo Mestre, Chairman Bruce Stillman, President James D. Watson, Chancellor W. Dillaway Ayres Chief Operating Officer
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen A. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Lola, alumna of Syracuse University's College of Visual and Performing Arts and Trustee of the University, to his daughter Laurie Wolfert and granddaughter Samantha Wolfert, both also alumnae of the University, and his family. His support of the University and the Goldring Arts Journalism Program of the University's Newhouse School of Public Communications will long be appreciated by the faculty, staff and students of Syracuse University. Chancellor and President, Nancy Cantor; Board of Trustees, Staff and Faculty of Syracuse University.
        $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen A. The Department of Medicine of New York University School of Medicine is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Allen A. Goldring. Mr. Goldring, a Life Trustee of NYU Medical Center was a great friend and benefactor to the department over many years. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Martin J. Blaser, M.D., Chair Department of Medicine NYU School of Medicine
      