
        KRESS--Richard Q. Richard Q. Kress, longtime Greenwich resident and former president of Norelco, the consumer products division of North American Philips Corporation died Saturday October 14th in Greenwich, CT. He was 78. Complications from numerous health problems caused his death after a brief hospitalization, his family said. As President of Norelco, Mr. Kress was said to have single-handedly driven the rotary shaver business throughout the 70's. During his tenure at Norelco, Mr. Kress boosted sales to over $3.2 Billion with 60% of the market share. Mr. Kress had a flair for the dramatic when it came to his annual sales meetings once donning a Patton costume to command his ''troops,'' another time dressing up as Super Man and flying between two buildings. But perhaps he was best known, both here and in the Netherlands, home of parent company, N.V. Philips Corporation, as the ''Norelco Kid'' in his Stetson hat with the Norelco shaver heads hatband. Born in Lancaster, PA, Mr. Kress was the son of Charles E. Kress and May Quinn Kress. He graduated with a bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1950 and an MBA from Wharton School of Business in 1952. He was a member of Sigma Chi fraternity.In 1963 he joined North American Philips Corporation as director of advertising. In 1971 he was elected President of Norelco Consumer Products Division of North american Philips Corporation. He retired in 1986. Mr. Kress received numerous awards for his service to n.V. Philips Corporation including being elected ''Tax Free Citizen for Life'' in Drachten, Holland and having a tulip named after him by Queen Juliana of the Netherlands. An avid boater and fisherman, Mr. Kress was a member of the Monomoy Yacht Club in Chatham, MA and the founder of the Connecticut River Foundation in Essex, CT. He is survived by his longtime companion, Katherine A. Wagner; and his children from his first marriage to Margaret Parent Kress; a daughter, Stacie Kress Booker of St. Petersburg, Fl; a son, Richard Q. Kress Jr. of New York City; daughters Megan Torelli of Riverside, and Sharon Kress of Wilton, CT. Surviving also are four grandchildren, Michael and Kathryn Booker, and Alexander and Lea Torelli; two nieces, Charleen Kress of Boston and Nenette Kress of New York. A brother, Charles E. Kress and stepsister, Mary Ann Byrnes predecease him.
      