
        MILLER--Gordon Edmunds. 54, of Santa Fe died Tuesday, October 10th of heart failure. He was born in San Francisco to the late Edmona Lyman and the late Paul A. Miller. In 1956, following a divorce of his parents, he accompanied his mother and brothers to New York. In 1957, his mother married Frank L. Mansell of New York and the family lived in Connecticut and New York. He graduated from the Salisbury School in Salisbury, Connecticut and matriculated at the University of California at Berkeley. He subsequently moved to Santa Fe where he owned and trained show horses for many years. He was talented, charming and an exceptional sense of humor. His friends were all ages. Gordon is survived by his stepfather, Frank Mansell of Hobe Sound, FL; brothers Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, CA; Christian F. Miller of Hamilton, MT; Charles B. Miller of Twin Bridges, MT; and Alex Echeguren and Juan Miller of San Francisco, CA; sisters, Devon Mansell Laycox of Sherborn, MA and Jessica Mansell Ambrose of East Hampton, NY; and many other relatives and friends. Memorial service will be held at 10 a.m., Friday, October 13, at the Nedra Mateucci Gallery, 1075 Paseo de Peralta in Santa Fe. A second memorial service will be held at 5 p.m., Saturday, October 28, at St. Lukes Church, East Hampton, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Santa Fe Animal Shelter and Humane Society, 100 Caja Del Rio Road, Santa Fe, NM 87507.
        $(6$)MILLER--Gordon Edmunds. Gordon was an utterly unique person. There's no one of his era to compare him to. He understood the beauties and responsibilities of friendship the way very few people do. He treasured his friends, who were legion, and his friends treasured him back. There was nothing you could not tell him, knowing it would be safe. He provided emotional comfort for those of his acquaintance who were undergoing woes. He was a social historian, who lived removed from society; the telephone was his connection to a world that he has forsaken. He was hilarious funny. He loved to dish. He mourned when his dog died. He was proud of himself after giving the eulogy at his father's funeral. He was special. He was wonderful. Dominic Dunne
      