
        SCHLEIFER--Marjorie, dearest loving friend, you will remain in our hearts forever. Joan Siegel & Ruth Schoen
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Marjorie Schleifer and extend to her bereaved husband Jack and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. The loss of one person is the loss of a world. Margie cared for everyone without needing anything in return. Her guidance was a perfect bedrock and source of strength for generations of family. We felt included in her life's journey and will miss her grace, compassion and loving kindness. Doris and Stanley Dorothy and Andrew Tananbaum
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff, beloved wife and mother, loving grandmother and adored great-grandmother passed from this world on Saturday, October 21st. A woman of transcendent beauty and remarkable kindness and generosity, Marjorie touched the lives of all who knew her. A New Yorker through and through she was born in Manhattan on August 4, 1916. She was married for five decades to Henry Minskoff until his death in 1984 and she is survived by her husband of 20 years, Jack Schleifer. She was predeceased by her parents and brothers Norman, Bernie and Sidney and her sister Francine. Marjorie Lucille Folgeman grew up the oldest daughter, one of five children, of Morris and Mary Folgeman on the Upper West Side. She was an outstanding student who finished high school at sixteen. She met her husband to be Henry Minskoff when still a teenager. They married on November 17, 1935. She leaves behind her son Dr. James D. Sterling and wife Carolina Sterling of New York, her daughter Jeannie Minskoff Grant and her husband T Grant of New York and her son Alan Minskoff and his wife Royanne Minskoff of Idaho, her grandchildren Michael Sands and his wife Svetlana, Richard Sands, Donna Lynn Sands, Toffer Grant, Noah Minskoff and his wife Jennifer, her great grandchildren Natasha and Jade Minskoff. Step daughter Natalie Schlass and her children Rachel, William and Deenie Schlass. And seven nieces and nine nephews. Marjorie lived in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Florida and Harrison, New York. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Marjorie Minskoff Schleifer Scholar at Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, attention Dr. Linda Fried or to Park East Day School. Services Tuesday Morning October 24th, 9:30 am, Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th. Contact the Riverside, 212.362.6600 .
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie. To our lifelong friend of over 50 years, we will miss your physical presence, beautiful to the very end; your elegance, your warmth and your love. We will cherish the memories of all the wonderful times we shared together. Love, Sydelle and Arthur
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Marjorie Minskoff Schleifer, beloved wife of our esteemed member Jack Schleifer. A woman of inner and outer beauty and generosity, she was deeply committed to education. She, and her late husband Henry, spearheaded the building of the Minskoff Cultural Center and the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School, where gifted students receive a well rounded education. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Jack, her children Alan (Royanne) Minskoff, Jeannie Minskoff (T) Grant, James D. (Carolina) Sterling, stepdaughter Natalie Schlass, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Funeral services, Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 Street, Tuesday, October 24, 9:30AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
      