
        TSUCHIYA--Maureen Keating, suddenly in Manhattan on October 28, 2006. Beloved wife of Takashi and mother of Hannah Meagan, age 15. Born November 1, 1954 in Atkinson, Nebraska, Maureen was the daughter of John and Dolores Keating, the second of eight children. A resident of Chappaqua, NY since 1997, Maureen lived in Tokyo (1991-1996) and Manhattan (1987-1991); she attended secondary school in Atkinson, Nebraska and moved to Minnesota to attend St. Benedicts University in St. John. She earned a bachelors degree from Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas where she pursued a Master's degree in public Administration. Stricken as a toddler with a particularly severe strain of polio in 1956, Maureen developed an amazing ability to face hardship and triumph over adversity. She did not just deal with this lifelong disability, which worsened over time, she used it to propel herself and others forward--always with vigor, grace, dignity, a rapier wit and wicked sense of humor. Besides her family and her friends, her PASSION WAS POLITICS. Maureen, a lifelong active Democrat and fierce proponent of equal opportunity, was widely respected for her forcefulness and skill. A powerful change agent, she worked tirelessly for the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act and witnessed the White House signing in 1988. While in Tokyo, as President of Democrats Abroad, she invigorated the party globally and was elected to attend the 1996 Democratic Convention in Chicago. Her skills as a political operative are widely valued and will be sorely missed in New York State. Maureen is survived by her husband Takashi and daughter Hannah of Chappaqua, parents John and Dolores Keating of Atkinson, Nebraska; mother-in-law Misuzu Tsuchiya of tokyo; Irish twin Mary Rose and husband Gene Schaaf of Bassett, Nebraska; brother Phillip of Omaha, Nebraska; brother Patrick and wife Eliza of Istanbul, Turkey; brother James and wife Natalie of Cody, Nebraska; brother Matthew and wife Jill of Kearney, Nebraska; brother Gerard and wife Janet of Geneva, Illinois; sister-in-law Kumi and husband Toshiyuki Misu of Tokyo; nieces, Sarah Schaaf, Yuria Misu, Kaitlin Keating, and Reese Keating; nephews Mark Schaaf, Andrew Schaaf, Ian Keating, Taiki Misu, Jake Keating, Zach Keating, Adam Keating, Alec Keating, Jack Keating and Dalton Keating; great-nephew Taylor Schaaf and great - niece Hailey Schaaf. Please join us in celebrating the life of Maureen Keating Tsuchiya, Tuesday, October 31, 2006, 4:00pm at the First Congregational Church of Chappaqua, 210 Orchard Ridge Road, Chappaqua, New York 11514. (914238-4411). In lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions in Maureen's name be made to Westchester Disabled on the Move, 984 North Broadway, Suite L-01, Yonkers, NY 10701, telephone: 914-968-4717.
      