
        WANG--C.C. Cheng Ching Wang was born in Peking China October 17, 1918 the younger son of Wang Han Su and Wang Wen Shuen, a military general and later, War Minister under Generalissimo Chiang-kai-chek. He graduated from Yenching University with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemistry in 1938. After working in the National Oil Refinery in Chungking China from 1939 to 1941 he served in the Chinese Nationalist Army from 1941 to 1943 as a Lieutenant Colonel during which time he married Florence Wu in 1942, in Chungking, then the war capital of China. In April 1943, after flying over the Himalayas to Calcutta, then sailing in an unarmed and unescorted British ship, he arrived in the U.S. where he obtained a Masters Degree in Chemical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1945. After a stint as Development Engineer at Dupont and Firestone from 1945 to 1947, he returned to China in 1947, obtaining an Honorable Discharge from the Nationalist Army with a rank of Colonel. In 1947 he founded Summit Industrial Company, and in 1948, U.S. Summit Corporation with three of his beloved classmates from MIT: Dr. C.D. Shiah, J.T.Shaw and P.M. Yen. They named the company to represent the sum of MIT. Together they went on to build an international pharmaceutical distribution business, a trading company and an oil refining business. They were among the first pioneers of modern industry in Asia after the turmoil of World War II. Throughout a life filled with adventure, exploration, and a passion for business, he did have a few other abiding loves--golf (he owned a private course in Westchester for over 35 years) and homes: He maintained residences in NYC, Pound Ridge, Palm Beach, Southampton, Singapore and Shanghai. He remained a true devotee to all things beautiful, a man of great insight and wisdom and someone who possessed an unfailing passion and respect for life. He also honored a lifelong commitment to his beloved wife Florence and his family. Although he never foresaw owning a fashion business, he was the sole backer of the Vera Wang Company and served as Chairman from its inception in 1990 to 1998. His many business positions were as follows: Director, Singapore Petroleum Company Pte. Ltd., Chairman & President, Oceanic Petroleum Corporation, Chairman & President, Oceanic Pe troleum (Asia) Corporation, Chairman & President of Summit Group of Companies, Chairman of the Vera Wang Group 1990-1998. He is survived by his daughter Vera, son Kenneth, son-in-law Arthur Becker, daughter-in-law Doreen Wang, a sister Wang Pe-chen, a member of the Chinese parliament of the Republic of China for 43 years, and three grandsons, Kevin, Darren and Harry Wang, and two granddaughters, Cecilia and Josephine Becker. He passed away on September 14th at the age of 87. The Memorial Service for C.C. Wang will be held at 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, October 19th at Christ Church, 520 Park Avenue in New York City. Donations may be made in memory of C.C. Wang to Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center.
      