
        CHAPMAN--Aldys Squire, 91, of New Vernon, New Jersey, and long time resident of Nantucket died peacefully at home on October 6, 2006. She is survived by her three children, Aldys C. Davis of Villanova, Pennsylvania, Peyton C. Horne of Chicago, Illinois, and John S. Chapman Jr. of Berea, Ohio, as well as nine grandchildren and 15 great grandchildren. Her husband John S. Chapman preceded her in death in 1974. Mrs. Chapman was born in Orange, NJ and lived in New Vernon before moving to Nantucket 32 years ago. She was a homemaker. She was a generous contributor to many local and civic causes including the Nantucket Cottage Hospital, Antheneum Library, Nantucket Historical Association, Nantucket Conservation Foundation, Nantucket Theater, St. Paul's Church and the Sunday School at the Methodist Church, both in Nantucket. Mrs. Chapman was a member of the Nantucket Yacht Club, Sankaty Head Golf and Beach Club, Cliffside Beach Club and Angler's Club. She was a past member of the Junior League in Morristown, New Jersey, as well as the Chilton Club in Boston, Colony Club in New York, The Colonial Dames of America, The Daughters of the Cincinnati, former Regent of the Nantucket Chapter of D.A.R. for 1984-1985, and the past president of the Nantucket Garden Club from 1977-1980. She loved reading, Broadway shows and crossword puzzles. She was fortunate to have dedicated and thoughtful caretakers until her passing. Phylis Smith, Ann Murray and Jill Arouja, whom she considered a part of her family. A graveside service will be held on Saturday, October 14, 2006 at 11:00 AM at Rosedale Cemetery in Orange. For information Dangler Funeral Home of West Orange, 340 Main Street, West Orange. A Memorial Service will be held on Nantucket Island at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Nantucket Cottage Hospital Visiting Nurses, 57 Prospect Street, Nantucket, MA 02554, or Nantucket Theater Workshop, c/o Nantucket Methodist Church, 2 Centre Street, Nantucket, MA 02554.
      