
        MEED--Benjamin. We deeply mourn the passing of our lifelong friend. Ben was a survivor whose life purpose was to never let the world forget the murder of the six million Jewish lives during the Holocaust. Ben was a Warsawer with our late father and husband, Robert Born. Their friendship and bond strengthened one another. Our heartfelt condolences to Vladka, Steven, Anna and Genia. Esther Born Rita and Fred Distenfeld Richard and Debbie Born
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin--and his beloved wife Vladka were great leaders of the world's Holocaust survivors. Their life's work was to make the world Remember and Never Forget. We will greatly miss him and his vigilant and tireless work on behalf of the Jewish people and the State of Israel. Ruth, Fred, Jason, Evan and Karen Schwalbe
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a devoted leader and 1987 guest of honor at its Holocaust Remembrance Dinner--one of many Holocaust memorial programs in wHich he was a driving force. We extend sincere condolences to his wife, Vladka Meed, an honoree in 1995; their children, Dr. Steven Meed and Anna Scherzer; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joshua Matza, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal, Vice Chairman of the Board David Halpern, National Chairman
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Leadership and Members of the New Cracow Friendship Society mourn the death of Benjamin Meed. Genuine leader in the cause of rememberance. R. Weingarten, Pres.
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our esteemed friend Benjamin Meed. A Warsaw ghetto fighter, he led the efforts of Holocaust remembrance and restitution for survivors. We extend our condolences to Vladka, and pray that the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Harold Tanner, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Federation of Polish Jews extends their deepest condolences to the family of Benjamin Meed, member of the Board of Executives who was devoted to the remembrance of Polish Jewry. Kalman Sultanik, President
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American and International Societies for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Benjamin S. Meed, a friend dedicated to Holocaust awareness and commemoration. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Vladka, children and grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eli Zborowski, Chairman American and International Societies for Yad Vashem
        $(6$)MEED--Benjamin. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of a man of great courage whose dedication to Holocaust memory made him a powerful and beloved figure. Ben helped found our Museum and has remained a steadfast friend. We proudly carry on his legacy of the Annual Gathering of Remembrance. We extend heartfelt condolences to our beloved Vladka and the family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair David G. Marwell, Director
        $(6$)MEED -- Benjamin. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the passing of our dynamic President and founder. Funeral services will be held today at 9:30 AM at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 Street, NYC.
      