
        STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, who was part of our journey from old to new, and creating a new life in a new place. Our heartfelt condolences to Romana, Chuck and the family. Henry and Rose Moskowitz and Family
        $(6$)STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American Society for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Sigmund Strochlitz, a founding Vice Chairman of the Society. A Holocaust survivor, he was a warm and generous person, a committed Zionist and an important and enthusiastic supporter of Holocaust and remembrance. We express our heartfelt condolences to his children and grandchildren. May they derive solace from inspiring memories of him and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eli Zborowski, Chairman American Society for Yad Vashem
        $(6$)STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. BarIlan University and its American Friends mourn the passing of Sigmund Strochlitz, z'l, who served as Secretary of the American Board of Trustees and member of the Global Board of Trustees at Bar-Ilan University. He established the successful Sigmund and Rose Strochlitz Judaic Teaching Fellowship Center for the training of Judaic Studies and Bible teachers. In 1997, Mr. Strochlitz received a Doctorate Degree, Honoris Causa, from the University in recognition of his leadership contributions and support for many Jewish causes in Israel and the United States. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. May they draw solace from inspiring memories and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Peter Rzepka, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh President Bar-Ilan University Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        $(6$)STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of Sigmund Strochlitz, a Holocaust survivor, visionary and leader in the cause of the Holocaust remembrance. A member of the President's Commission on the Holocaust, he was one of a very small group who led the creation of the Museum and the establishment of national commemorations in Washington and throughout the country, and he was a member of the Museum's Governing Council for 10 years. He shall be deeply missed; his legacy forever remembered. Sincere condolences to his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman Joel M. Geiderman, Vice Chr Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        $(6$)STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the passing of our good friend, a guardian of our modest memory and devoted leader of the survivor community. Our deepest sympathy to Romana Primus, her husband and the entire family. Benjamin Meed, Sam Bloch, Roman Kent, Max Liebmann
      