
        LANIGAN--Thomas L. A leading editor in chemistry, biochemistry, and molecular biology died on Sunday, September 24, 2006 in Passaic, New Jersey. He was the founder of the Science, Technology and Medicine publisher The Humana Press, Inc. Born on August 23, 1938, in Oswego, New York, Mr. Lanigan earned a bachelor'S degree in chemistry from Le Moyne College, Syracuse, New York, and a master's degree in physical chemistry from St. John's University. While working on his PhD he entered scientific publishing as an editor, first at Academic Press, then at Plenum Press in New York City. Mr. Lanigan founded Humana Press in 1977 and built it into a leading publisher of cutting-edge research in molecular biology and molecular medicine, cancer research, heart disease, neuroscience, and neurology, a list of over a thousand titles and twentyfour journals, serving a wide spectrum of the scientific and medical research communities. Humana Press was recently acquired by Springer Science and Business Media, which will maintain the Humana imprint. Humana Press also published belles lettres, a lifelong passion of Mr. Lanigan, including novels by Demetrio Aguilera-Malta, the celebrated magic realist of Ecuador, and the autobiography of Vincent Zigas, an early researcher in prion disease. Although his main focus for the past thirty years has been to build Humana Press, Mr. Lanigan indulged his passion for the theater, music, and visual arts, and continued to write poetry. He was an avid collector of contemporary paintings and graphics. He was a philanthropist and, with his wife, endowed an interdisciplinary chair at Le Moyne College to promote the study science, medicine, and ethics, and their interactions. Mr. Lanigan is survived by his wife of 41 years, Julia Bartko Lanigan, who served as Humana Press's vice president of operations from 1991 to 2006 and by their son Thomas B. Lanigan of Weston, Florida, who was marketing director of Humana from 1993 to 2006. Also surviving are his mother, Mary Ellen Lanigan of Oswego, and his brothers and sisters, James of Manchester, NH; Mary of Syracuse; Charles and Frances of Oswego; Terance, of Phoenix, Arizona; Elizabeth of Rochester, NY; and Patrick of Watertown, NY.
      