
        DUKE--James Daryl. After a courageous struggle with pulmonary fibrosis, Daryl passed away peacefully at his West Vancouver home on October 21, 2006. Born March 8, 1929 in Vancouver, Daryl's love of British Columbia never waned even while he wandered the world. The smell of the ocean, the changing of the tide, but most importantly watching the setting of the sun on British Columbia's Pacific coast were very much part of his persona, especially when he was on his Savary Island -a place he came to think of as ''home''. From selling jokes to a local radio station at the age of 15, he earnestly set out to capture his '' love with shadows, phantoms, lovely ghosts, and haunting the byways of our hearts after he obtained a degree in English and Philosophy from the University of British Columbia. He has worked for the National Film Board, the CBC, ABC, NBC and CBS, and most of the major studios in Hollywood. He has also been the recipient of many accolades and awards -Emmy Award for his direction of ''The Day the Lion Died'' starring Hal Holbrook, the National Society of Film Critics Special Award for his feature film ''Payday'' starring Rip Torn, a Christopher Award for ''I Heard the Owl Call My Name'' starring British actor Tom Courtenay, the Canadian Film Awards (now called the Genies) for ''The Silent Partner'' starring Christopher Plummer, Elliott Gould and Susannah York. Daryl's feature film ''Payday'' was also an official entry at the Cannes Film Festival in the Directors' Fortnight Category. He received Emmy and Directors Guild of America nominations for his work on the mini-series ''The Thorn Birds.'' He co-founded and launched the independent station CKVU-TV in Vancouver and was its first President and CEO. He was inducted into the ''Starwalk'' and the B.C. Entertainment Hall of Fame at Vancouver's Orpheum Theatre. He was also the first recipient of the Outstanding Achievement Award for an Individual given at the British Columbia Film Industry's annual Leo Awards ceremony. Daryl was inducted into the Canadian Association of Broadcast Hall of Fame. Simon Fraser University granted him a Honourary Doctorate of Fine Arts, and he also received ACTRA's John Drainie Award for distinguished contribution to broadcasting. ''Though the lamps should be lit and fires started I stay watching the darkness come slowly forward. I think of how few nights of peace there are. True peace. When the flood tide slides north as it should. When the eagle sits in his tree. When the heron puts away the torn cloth of his cries. When night falls and the heart is not heavy''. Daryl has lived his life with enthusiasm, spirit and an intensely enquiring mind. He is survived by his wife Anne-Marie Dekker, sons Bryan (Margy) and David (Melanie), stepson Michael Favelle (Carrie) and grandchildren Leah, Nathan, Samantha, Dakota, Ansel, Owen, Elijah, Noah, and Jakob. A public service will be held on Tuesday, November 7 at 2pm at Christ Church Cathedral, 690 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC. Condolences or well wishes may be posted at www.darylduke.com. In lieu of flowers, a donation may be made to the Daryl Duke Screenwriters Award c/o BC Film, 2225 West Broadway, Vancouver, BC V6K 2E4.
      