
        RENTSCHLER--George Adam Jr. Mr. Rentschler, the eldest child of George A. Rentschler, Sr. and Rita Mitchell Rentschler, was born in New York City on December 2, 1937. Mr. Rentschler's father was Chairman of the Board, Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation, a Fortune 500 company in the 1950's and 1960's. Mr. Rentschler was a 1960 cum laude graduate of Princeton University. At Princeton, he belonged to the Reserve Officer Training Corps and was a Distinguished Military Graduate. After graduation and his commissioning as a second lieutenant in the United States Army, he was stationed overseas in Germany, where he served first as a battery officer in the 3rd Armored Division Artillery, and later as Assistant Headquarters Commandant at HQ V Corps. Upon his return from overseas duty, Mr. Rentschler joined the New York Army National Guard. He commanded field artillery batteries over a five year period and rose to the rank of Major. During his final assignment in the National Guard, he served as Assistant Operations Officer of the 42nd Infantry Division Artillery. In 1973 Mr. Rentschler transferred to the Army Reserve. Among his assignments in the Army Reserve, was as an Operations Staff Officer at HQ 1st Army. He later served with the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, HQ Department of the Army. In January 1989, Mr. Rentschler, having attained the rank of Colonel, was appointed the Commandant of the 1163rd Reserve Forces School. Among his professional military educational accomplishments, Colonel Rentschler was a distinguished graduate of the nonresident program of the Naval War College. He completed the Command and General Staff College, the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and the Air War College. Among his many decorations, Colonel Rentschler was awarded the Department of Defense's Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service Medal, the Army Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, and the National Defense Service Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster. He also was awarded the Air Assault Badge, the Air Crew Badge and the Expert Gunner Badge. Mr. Rentschler's civilian career included employment with the United States Lines. Early in his career, Mr. Rentschler served as the Assistant Superintendent of Piers 61 and 62 on the Hudson River. Mr. Rentschler later served as Vice President and as a Director of the Barber Oil Corporation. Mr. Rentschler was the President of the Charleston Corporation, an independent investment company. Mr. Rentschler was a man of many, varied and eclectic interests. He traveled extensively by rail, in particular, Eastern Europe and the Russian Far East. He was an avid sportsman. Mr. Rentschler was an ardent supporter of any number of charitable organizations. An avid walker, he walked nine miles every other day throughout Manhattan and the Bronx. Mr. Rentschler considered his two greatest accomplishments in life to be his daughters Farley and Mary Montgomery. In addition to his daughters, Mr. Rentschler is survived by two brothers, Fred, of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Charlie, of Hartsville, Indiana. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions to Concern Worldwide US, 104 East 40th Street, New York, New York 10016, an international relief organization. Friends may call on Wednesday, October 11th, from 5:307:30PM, at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue at 81st. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, October12th, at 2:00PM at St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Avenue at 65th Street.
      