
        SUSSMAN--Sylvia (Rachel). The Medical Staff of Beth Israel Medical Center joins the rest of the hospital community in mourning the passing of Sylvia (Rachel) Sussman, whose generosity enabled us to provide comfort for our sickest patients, improve our clinical services and participate in numerous clinical trials to find cures for a host of ailments. Joined in philanthropic partnership by her late husband Leo, Mrs. Sussman supported several of our programs including those addressing cancer, urology, cardiology, hospice and Alzheimer's Disease. She made a significant difference in the lives of those individuals treated in these areas. We offer our deepest sympathies to her family and loved ones during this difficult time. Harris M. Nagler, MD, Chairman, The Sol and Margaret Berger Dept. of Urology Russell K. Portenoy, MD, Chairman, Dept. of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care Steven R. Bergmann, MD, PhD, Chief, The Thomas Killip, MD Division of Cardiology Todd E. Feinberg, MD, Chief, The Betty and Morton Yarmon Division of Neurobehavior and Alzheimer's Disease Michael C. Grossbard, MD, Chief, The Leo and Rachel Sussman Division of Hematology/Oncology
        $(6$)SUSSMAN--Sylvia (Rachel). It is with great sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges the passing of our dear friend and benefactress, Syliva (Rachel) Sussman. Along with her beloved late husband Leo, Mrs. Sussman generously supported many of the hospital's clinical programs and supportive services including the Leo and Rachel Sussman Division of Hematology/Oncology, the Leo and Rachel Sussman Geriatrics and Alzheimer's Disease Unit, and the Leo and Rachel Sussman Inpatient Unit at Continuum Hospice Care/Jacob Perlow Hospice. Her legacy of generosity and support will forever be linked in perpetuity with Beth Israel. To her sons Bruce and Jay, the entire Sussman family and all who loved her, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees David J. Shulkin, MD, President and CEO Stephen P. Haveson, MD, President, Medical Board Robert G. Newman, MD, President Emeritus
      