
        SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Jack, children Jim, Jean and Alan. She was warm and caring and will be sorely missed. Norman Dick and Staff
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie. Mother's and father's dearest, kindest and most loyal friend. The angles have escorted you to a place you truly deserve, but we will miss and mourn for you. Ken, Steven, Joanna, and Irsa Schulman
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. The Staff and family members of Minskoff Grant Realty & Management Corp. Mourn the passing of our Principal, Marjorie Minskoff Schleifer, a beautiful human being in body and soul. Caring, compassionate, witty and wise. Her presence will be deeply missed, but her spirit will remain with us. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Jack and her family. Minskoff Grant Realty & Management Corp.
        $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff, beloved wife and mother, loving grandmother and adored great-grandmother passed from this world on Saturday, October 21st. A woman of transcendent beauty and remarkable kindness and generosity, Marjorie touched the lives of all who knew her. A New Yorker through and through she was born in Manhattan on August 4, 1916. She was married for five decades to Henry Minskoff until his death in 1984 and she is survived by her husband of 20 years, Jack Schleifer. She was predeceased by her parents and brothers Norman, Bernie and Sidney and her sister Francine. Marjorie Lucille Folgeman grew up the oldest daughter, one of five children, of Morris and Mary Folgeman on the Upper West Side. She was an outstanding student who finished high school at sixteen. She met her husband to be Henry Minskoff when still a teenager. They married on November 17, 1935. She leaves behind her son Dr. James D. Sterling and wife Carolina Sterling of New York, her daughter Jeannie Minskoff Grant and her husband T Grant of New York and her son Alan Minskoff and his wife Royanne Minskoff of Idaho, her grandchildren Michael Sands and his wife Svetlana, Richard Sands, Donna Lynn Sands, Toffer Grant, Noah Minskoff and his wife Jennifer, Tasha Sterling, Henry Minskoff, Laura Minskoff and greatgrandchildren Natasha and Jade Minskoff. Step daughter Natalie Schlass and her children Rachel, William and Deenie Schlass. And seven nieces and nine nephews. Marjorie lived in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Florida and Harrison, New York. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Marjorie Minskoff Schleifer Scholar at Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, attention Dr. Linda Fried or to Park East Day School. Contact the Riverside Memorial Chapel for more information 212.362.6600 .
      