
        FARBER--Dr. Saul. The physicians of Murray Hill Medical Group extend their heartfelt sympathies to the family of Dr. Saul Farber on their loss of a loving husband, father and grandfather. Dr. Farber was an icon in academic and clinical medicine for over half a century and he was a mentor and teacher to all of us for many, many years. He instilled compassion and caring in all of his students and he taught us to strive to excel in patient care. He will be sorely missed but his love for medicine and dedication to patient care will live on in our work.
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., M.D. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of a beloved Physician and friend, Saul J. Farber, M.D., former longtime Dean of NYU School of Medicine and Provost of NYU Medical Center. New York's entire Healthcare community has benefited from his extraordinary career as a clinician, researcher, teacher, and leader. We send our deepest sympathies to Dr. Farber's wife Doris, and his entire family. Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. Chairman, GNYHA Kenneth E. Raske, President, GNYHA
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., Dr. The New York Academy of Medicine records with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Saul J. Farber, Chairman of its Board of Trustees from 1991 to 1995. His extraordinary career in medicine, spent almost entirely at New York University from which he received the M.D. in 1942, included important studies in cardiovascular and kidney physiology as well as distinguished contributions in a variety of clinical areas. He was longtime Chairman of the Department of Medicine at NYU as well as Dean and Provost. His warmth and wisdom made him a key figure to generations of medical students, residents and fellows. He was a valued consultant to the Veterans Administration and numerous foundations, universities and boards here and abroad. A central figure in American internal medicine, he served as President of the American College of Physicians and Chairman of the American Board of Internal Medicine and the Federated Council of Internal Medicine. His service to the New York Academy of Medicine extended over many years, and was invaluable in its reemergence as a vital, innovative and useful institution. The Academy Board, Fellows and staff extend warmest condolences to his family. Thomas Q. Morris, M.D., Chairman, Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, M.D., Immediate Past President David Vlahov, Ph.D., Interim Executive Director
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul, M.D. Leon and Michaela Constantiner would like to express their sincerest condolences to Doris Farber and her children for the passing of her beloved husband and father, Dr. Saul Farber, a man of great wisdom and kindness. He will be greatly missed and we will always have him in our hearts.
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., M.D. Deep sorrow and heartfelt condolences are extended to Doris, Beth & Stephen, Joshua & Nancy, & grandchildren. We will always cherish and miss the true and loving friendship we shared with Saul. Caren & Arturo Constantiner
        $(6$)FARBER--Dr. Saul Joseph, 88, on October 11, 2006. Beloved husband, for 57 years, of Doris Balmuth Farber; cherished father of Dr. Joshua Farber and his wife Dr. Nancy Hardy, and Beth Farber Loewentheil and her husband Stephan Loewentheil; venerated grandfather of Kara, Nathaniel and Jacob Loewentheil, and of Daniel Jerome Hardy Farber; revered brother of Samuel and Emmanuel Farber and of Rochelle Berkowitz. The funeral service will be held at 12:30PM, Thursday, October 12th, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 331 Amsterdam Ave., between 75th-76th Streets. Shiva begins at 7PM Sunday, October 15th at 37 Washington Square West, and ends on Thursday, October 19th.
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., M.D. The Department of Medicine at the New York University School of Medicine mourns the passing of Saul J. Farber, M.D., its longtime Chair. During his illustrious career, Dr. Farber was the pre-eminent medical educator of his generation; scholar, scientist, humanist, and doctor. He cared for the poor and the privileged, and set and an example for countless students and physicians. His students became doctors and teachers as well, passing the torch of his wisdom to new generations of students, and to their patients. His influence was immense, and his many colleagues in the Department mourn the loss of their mentor and friend. Dr. Farber was without peer and we deeply respect his legacy. We send our condolences to Doris, his partner in life and work, and to his children, Dr. Joshua M. Farber and Beth Farber Loewentheil. His memory will live on in our hearts. Martin J. Blaser, M.D., Chair Department of Medicine NYU School of Medicine
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., MD. It is with a very heavy heart that Louise and Martin will mourn the passing of this special friend. From 1963 to this day we have shared this extraordinary friendship with our families and colleagues. It would be impossible to relive these amazing times and challenges over the decades. We will always miss his leadership, friendship, humor and dedication to his family and the medical profession. Doris and family will always be an important part of our lives. Louise Sunshine and Martin Begun
        $(6$)FARBER--Dr. Saul. Sadly, I've answered your last questions. I have no more answers. GEMAR TOB Marvin Weitz
      