
        BEER--Bernard Dr. Prominent and well-respected scientist, Dies at 74 Dr. Bernard Beer, PhD, a pioneer in the field of in psychopharmacology and co-founder of DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc., died peaceably at his home in Cliffside Park, NJ early Sunday morning, his wife Blanca at his side. He was 74. The cause was complications stemming from head and neck cancer. Founded in 1995, DOV is a publicly traded biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, acquisition and development of novel drug candidates for central nervous system disorders. His positions at DOV were President and Co-Chairman of the Board. Born in BrooklynNYJuly 21, 1932,Dr. Beer won entrance to the prestigious New York High School of Music and Art for his drawings. Though a talented artist, he decided to further his education in science and earned his PhD from George Washington University, where he was often encouraged to speak on his innovative research on behavior and the brain. Dr. Beer also was an Adjunct Professor at Princeton University, Rutgers University, NYUMedical School, Boston University Medical School, and Manhattan College. Earlier in his career, Dr. Beer held the position of Global Director of Central Nervous System Biological and Clinical Research at WyethAyerst. During his career he developed many CNs and cardiovascular compounds, authored over 150 research publications and 2 books, and received a multitude of awards and honors. His areas of research included neuroreceptors, behaviorism, and the effects of aging on the brain. Dr. Beer was a very generous man, who gave freely his time anD money to those he came in contact with. In addition to his charitable work, he was kind and charming to the many people from the different aspects of life he encountered during his world travels. Dr. Beer traveled extensively -first through academics, then business, and finally for pleasure. He was well-cultured and educated in many aspects of life, including: philosophy; music and arts; fine food and wines, but he also enjoyed many aspects of pop culture such as rap music and sports. This well-respected and loved man will be missed by all that encountered him. He had the rare ability to connect to whoever he was talking to. Busboys, students, academic peers alike found themselves drawn to his charm and wit. Dr. Beer made you feel important. Dr. Beer was a veteran of the Korean war (MASH unit) and worked at the prestigious Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Washington, DC. Dr. Beer is survived by his first wife Beverly Levy Beer and their two sons Gary and Ken, Kens wife Cheri and their two children, Satchel and Nora, his present wife Blanca, her children, Michelle, Victor, Debbie and grandchildren Nicole, Mike and Danny, as well as his cousins Bernard Greenbaum, Ira Beer, and Anita Shulman and their families. He will also be missed by the countless people he generously mentored over the years. Funeral will be held Tuesday, October 24, at 3 PM at Gutterman-Musicant Funeral DirectOrs, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, NJ 07601 (201) 489-3800. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made in Dr. Bernard Beer's name to Beth Israel Medical Centerfor cancer research, Manhattan(www.wehealny.org/donate/ fundBI.html)
      