
        MEED--Benjamin. The Claims Conference mourns the passing of Benjamin Meed, its Honorary Vice President. Member of its Negotiating Committee, he was a tireless fighter for the rights of Holocaust survivors and for the preservation of the memory of the Shoah. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Vladka, a fellow boardmember, and entire family. The Officers and Board of Directors Conference On Jewish Material Claims Against Germany
        MEED--Benjamin. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourns the passing of our dear friend and distinguished longtime trustee. One man meant so much. He was an invaluable advisor and wise counselor on Holocaust affairs. His activist dedication to Jewish history and justice was exemplary. His work in establishing the USHMM in Washington, and role in national and international Holocaust survivor issues, touched countless people. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his wife, Vladka, their children and grandchildren. He will be sorely missed. May his memory be for a blessing. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Dr. Carl J. Rheins, Executive Director
        MEED--Benjamin. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American and International Societies for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Benjamin S. Meed, a friend dedicated to Holocaust awareness and commemoration. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Vladka, children and grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eli Zborowski, Chairman American and International Societies for Yad Vashem
        MEED--Benjamin. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of a man of great courage whose dedication to Holocaust memory made him a powerful and beloved figure. Ben helped found our Museum and has remained a steadfast friend. We proudly carry on his legacy of the Annual Gathering of Remembrance. We extend heartfelt condolences to our beloved Vladka and the family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair David G. Marwell, Director
        MEED--Benjamin. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the death of Benjamin Meed, Holocaust survivor, leader of the survivor community and a founding father of the Museum. Recognized worldwide for his singular contributions to Holocaust remembrance and his lifelong devotion to survivors and their families, Ben Meed was involved with the Museum since its conception in 1980 and played a pivotal role in its creation. He led the effort to establish America's annual national Holocaust commemoration-Days of Remembrance-and did pioneering work in Holocaust education and documentation, creating a unique registry of Holocaust survivors living in the United States. From his formative years in the Warsaw Ghetto to his many decades in his new homeland, he left an exceptional legacy. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife Vladka, a most cherished friend of the Museum, his children Anna and Steven, his sister Genia, and his grandchildren as well as the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors and the entire survivor community. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman, Joel M. Geiderman, Vice-Chairman Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        MEED--Benjamin. The Officers, Board Members and Staff of The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighter's Museum and Beit Lohamei Haghetaot mourn the passing of Ben Meed, our longtime friend and leader. His legacy of devotion to Holocaust remembrance and service to the Survivor community will live on through the thousands of people whose lives he touched. Our sincere condolences to Vladka, Anna and Steven and the entire Meed-Scherzer family. Amy Miller, President The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighter's Museum Simcha Stein, Director Beit Lohamei Haghetaot
        MEED--Benjamin. The International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns an esteemed friend, whose visionary leadership sustained the memory of the Shoah. His sacred mission endures through our dear Vladka, Steven, Rita, Anna and their family.
        MEED--Benjamin. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the death of Benjamin Meed, the husband of our dear friend and colleague Vladka Meed. Our heartfelt condolences to Vladka, children Anna and Steven, and the large family and community of those whose lives were touched by Ben. Stuart Appelbaum, President Avram B. Lyon, Exec, Dir.
        MEED -- Benjamin. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and their descendants and the Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Organization deeply mourn the passing of our beloved legendary founding president and leader. He galvanized the survivor's community and turned their legacy into a driving force for education and commemoration of the Holocaust for generations to come. His dedicated efforts and commitment were a powerful inspiration to the international Jewish community, and his tireless efforts on behalf of the legacy of the Shoah motivated everyman and governments to remember and learn from the past. We will miss him greatly, personally and collectively. His life and noble deeds have enshrined him in our hearts forever, and we are committed and dedicated to continuing his work. Our deepest sympathy to his wife and life companion, Vladka, who worked with him so closely; to his children, Anna and Steve and their spouses; to his sister, Genia, and his grandchildren. Sam E. Bloch Roman R. Kent Max K. Liebmann
      