
        MALTZ--William. In loving memory of Jute. Brother inlaw, uncle and great uncle. Brief and Toback families
        $(6$)MALTZ--William, who developed and built major residential construction projects in New York City and Boston, died October 25 of pancreatic cancer in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 79. Mr. Maltz was born in Brooklyn, New York. He attended Brooklyn Technical High School, where he made a name for himself as a hard nosed and talented varsity basketball player. He was a Public School Athletic League all star in his senior year, as well as the team captain. Upon His graduation From high sChool in 1944, Mr. Maltz enlisted in the Navy. He served as a hospital corpsman. Following the war, Mr. Maltz studied and obtained his degree in civil engineering at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He began his career as a draftsman at Holland Steel in Brooklyn. He later built many high rise apartments throughout the new york area. Mr. Maltz joined Starrett Brothers in the mid-1960s and became Senior Vice President. While at Starrett he assumed responsibility for development and construction in the Boston area, and built a number of notable luxury market projects. Mr. Maltz also successfully spearHeaded efforts to build low and moderate income housing, overcoming significant challenges to complete these projects. Eventually Mr. Maltz established his own company and built The Greenhouse, a luxury high rise in Boston's Back Bay. Mr. Maltz was universally known as a Firm but fair businessman. ''He gave me my first lesson in ethics,'' said Doug Swain of Bay management Corp., a boston area real estate developer manager who started in the business with Mr. Maltz.'' He was tough as nails, but everyone, no matter what his role, appreciated working for or with him, because he treated people fairly and honestly and he got the job done. Bill didn't lectUre; he made his point by the way he conducted himself. He is one of my heroes.'' Mr. Maltz retired to Highland Beach, florida in the 1990s. He was an avid fisherman and, above all, an intensely devoted family man. Of all his achievements he was proudest of having built, together with Renee (Brief), his beloved wife of 55 years, a close-knit and loving family, including his daughters, Randi Green of Venice, Florida and Robyn maltz Gross of Newton, Massachusetts, his son Rick Maltz of Thousand Oaks, California, and his three grandchildren, Reid Green and Courtney and Hayley Maltz. Donations may be made to Dana Farber cancer Institute, Attention: Dr. Jeffrey Meyerhart 44 Binney Street, Boston, Ma http://www.dana-farber.org. Services Friday October 27, 2006 2:00pm at Temple Beth El, 333 SW 4th Ave. Boca Raton, Fl. For further information Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel, 800-992-9262.
      