
        MARQUARD-William Albert, 86, of Lexington, Kentucky, died on October 22, 2006 at the University of Kentucky Chandler Medical Center after a brief illness. He was born in Pittsburgh, PA, son of the late William Albert and Anna Wild Marquard. Mr. Marquard graduated in 1940 from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He later served on the Board of the University and the Board of Overseers of the Wharton School. Mr. Marquard began his business career with Westinghouse Electric in 1940. He joined the Mosler Safe Company in 1952 and served in several executive capacities, eventually becoming President in 1967. After its acquisition by American Standard, he served as Group Executive of American Standard and was elected President and Chief Executive Officer in 1971. Several years later, he assumed the added title of Chairman, which he held until he retired in 1985. He continued as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board until 1988, and was again elected Chairman of the Board in 1989. During his business career he also served as director of Chemical Bank, Allied Stores, American Can, Prime America, Shell Oil Company, New York Life Insurance Company and NL Industries. In 1984, Mr. Marquard established Eaglestone Farm near Lexington, Kentucky, which is engaged in thoroughbred horse breeding and cattle raising. At the time of his death, he was a member of the Board of Trustees of Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky, and President of Markey Cancer Foundation and Shakertown Village. He was a former member, trustee and elder of the Brick Presbyterian Church in New York City. Mr. Marquard recently retired as Chairman of the Board of Arkansas Best Corporation after having served in that capacity for 16 years. He also served as a Director of Earle M. Jorgensen Company, Kelso & Company, and InfraReDx. He was Chairman Emeritus of American Standard, Inc and Director Emeritus of the New York Life Insurance Company. He was the loving husband of Margaret Haager Thoben Marquard for 64 years, and devoted father of Pamela Ann Marquard of Lexington, Kentucky, Suzanne Thoben Marquard Breckenridge of Brooklyn, New York, and Stephen Allen Marquard of Ridgewood, New Jersey, he is also survived by his brother, Curtis R. Marquard of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and seven grandchildren. Everyone who knew Mr. Marquard in life will sorely miss the presence of this most remarkable man. Funeral Services will Milward Mortuary, Broadway in Lexington with a private inurnment in Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville, Kentucky on Saturday, October 28, 2006. Friends may call 58pm Wednesday October 25, 2006 at the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, the family wishes that memorial contributions be made to Transylvania University 300 North Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky 40508 or to Markey Cancer Foundation, ATTN: Nick Oyler 800 Rose Street, Suite 160, Lexington, Kentucky 40536-0093 or to Shakertown Village 3501 Lexington Road, Harrodsburg, Kentucky 40330 or to another charitable endeavor of one's choice. www.milwardfuneral.com.
      