
        HOLLEB--Dr. Arthur I. Eminent cancer surgeon and longtime national chief medical executive for the American Cancer Society Dr. Arthur I. Holleb of Stamford, Connecticut, passed away October 19, 2006. A native of Brooklyn, New York, Dr. Holleb graduated from Brown University and the New York University College of Medicine and received his surgical training at the Memorial Sloane Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Dr. Holleb was a veteran of World War II who first joined the national office of the American Cancer Society in 1948, where he helped pioneer the organizations efforts to promote the use of lifesaving Pap tests nationwide. The technique for which he actively campaigned has since reduced cervical cancer mortality by more than 70 percent. He also helped to spearhead a widespread campaign in the 1970s that promoted mammography as the most effective means of detecting breast cancer early. As a direct result of nationwide use of mammography, breast cancer death rates have decreased steadily for more than 15 years. From 1968 to 1988, Dr. Holleb served as the American Cancer Societys senior vice president for medical affairs and national chief medical staff officer. He also served for 20 years as editor in chief of the Societys professional journal CA and as a member of its volunteer National Assembly. In addition to the decades of leadership he provided to the American Cancer Society, throughout his distinguished career he also served as clinical professor of surgery at Cornell University College of Medicine, associate clinician of the Sloane Kettering Institute of Cancer Research, associate director of the M.D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute, professor of surgery for the University of Texas at Houston, and a member of the International Union Against Cancer Executive Council. Dr. Holleb was a diplomat of the American Board of Surgery, a fellow of the American College of Surgeons and an honorary fellow of the American College of Radiology. In his six decades of service to the medical community, he published more than 150 scientific articles and editorials related to cancer. Dr. Arthur I. Holleb is survived by his wife of 55 years, Carolyn Oglesby Holleb; his children, David Holleb of Gladstone, New Jersey and Susan Crocker of Wellesley, Massachusetts; and his grandchildren Matthew and Peter Holleb and Zenas and Katharine Crocker. The family has requested donations be sent to the American Cancer Society in lieu of flowers.
      