
        FARBER--Saul J., M.D..More than a brother, more like a father. We are very proud of him, but more than anything, we will love him always. Rochelle and Edward Berkowitz and Family
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students of New York University and its School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the death of Saul J. Farber, M.D., former long-time Dean of the School of Medicine and Provost of NYU Medical Center. Dr. Farber was a brilliant clinician, beloved mentor, pioneering researcher, envisionary university leader who inspired generations of NYU medical students and faculty. His outstanding service to NYU spanned more than half a century and was marked by a fierce devotion to medical students and house staff. He continued to teach even as he rose to assume leadership of the Medical Center. He was equally passionate about Bellevue Hospital Center, our primary teaching affiliate, whose patients he often described as ''our teachers.'' A 1938 graduate of New York University, Dr. Farber earned his M.D. at NYU in 1942. After serving in the South Pacific as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps, he joined the NYU faculty in 1949, rising to the rank of Professor in 1962. Dr. Farber served as Chairman of the Department of Medicine from 1966 to 2000, and was named the Frederick H. King Professor of Medicine in 1978. He was the consummate institution builder. He served three separate stints as acting dean before being appointed Dean of the School of Medicine and Provost of NYU Medical Center in 1987, positions he held until 1998. As a researcher, Dr. Farber expanded scientific knowledge of the links between the kidneys and hypertension and congestive heart failure. He served as President of the American College of Physicians and Chairman of the American Board of Internal Medicine. In 1995, he was recognized nationally by the Association of American Medical Colleges, which honored him with its Abraham Flexner Award. Dr. Farber was loved by two generations of leaders of NYU for whom he was family doctor, confidant and trusted advisor. Our deepest sympathies go to his beloved wife, Doris, and the entire Farber family. Martin Lipton, Esq. Chairman, Board of Trustees, New York University Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman, Foundation Board of Trustees, NYU School of Medicine John Sexton, President New York Univerity Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean and CEO, NYU Medical Center
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul. The Sackler School of Medicine at Tel Aviv University will not be the same without Saul Farber's astute direction. Saul was one of the founders of the Medical School's New York State/American Program 30 years ago. Every step of the way Saul helped the Program stay current with the highest standards of American Medical Education. His wisdom, caring, and humor were invaluable to the 1400 students who are alumni of the Program. He was a giant in his time. Sackler School of Medicine Tel Aviv University New York State/American Program
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul, J., MD. The Officers, Trustees and staff of Riverside Research Institute mourn the passing of Dr. Saul Farber on October 11, 2006. Always a staunch and devoted supporter, Dr. Farber served admirably as a Trustee on the Institute's Board for well over three decades, during which time he offered sage advice, thoughtful counsel and astute judgement that were highly valued. We will miss our great friend and we extend our condolences to his wife, Doris and family.
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., M.D. The Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery/NYU School of Medicine mourns the passing of a special physician, teacher, friend and leader, Saul J. Farber, M.D. Dr. Farber set the example in patient care and medical education for several generations of physicians, serving NYU as Chairman of the Department of Medicine and Dean of the NYU School of Medicine for many years. His legacy is without peer and he will be greatly missed.
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul. Our hearts are broken our friend of many years, always there to help. We will miss your wit and humor but most of all your friendship. Condolences to his wife Doris and the entire family. Jane and Larry David
        $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., M.D. Deep sorrow and heartfelt condolences are extended to Doris, Beth & Stephen, Joshua & Nancy, & grandchildren. We will always cherish and miss the true and loving friendship we shared with Saul. Caren & Arturo Constantiner
        $(6$)FARBERSAUL ST#
      