
        HELLER--Peter Seton. 80, corporate lawyer at Webster and Sheffield for 40 years, chamber music composer for 15, and lifelong philanthropist, died at home in New York City of melanoma on October 21, 2006. A memorial service will be held on Friday, October 27, at 11 AM, at St. James Church, 71st Street and Madison Avenue. A native New Yorker, he was a graduate of the Putney School, Harvard College, the Harvard Law School, and a student of composer Stanley Wolff at the Juilliard School. A dedicated advocate of his alma mater, Mr. Heller served as an Overseer of Harvard College, President of the Harvard Club of New York, Vice President of the Associated Harvard Alumni and as a member of various visiting committees of the College. He was awarded the Harvard Medal in 1994. Other educational institutions on whose boards he served and which benefited from his wisdom were The Brearley School (Vice President and Trustee), the Public Education Association, and Radcliffe College. His interest in and knowledge of music was tapped by the New York Philharmonic where he was a Vice President of the Board and Trustee, and the American Composers Orchestra, of which he was a Director at the time of his death. Another interest was health care. He was a Trustee and Vice Chairman of the St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center, a former Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Institute for Health Science, and the former Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Kathryn and Gilbert Miller Health Care Institute for Performing Artists. He was also a Director of the Equitable Life Assurance Society from 1986 to 1990 and the Managing Partner of his law firm until his retirement in 1990. Mr. Heller is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Mary Wheeler; his daughter, Kate Heller O'Reilly; son-in-law, Dermot O'Reilly; and two grandchildren, Mary and Sean. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Luke's - Roosevelt Hospital Center, 1000 10th Avenue, New York, NY 10019 or to the American Composers Orchestra, 1775 Broadway, New York, NY 10001.
        $(6$)HELLER--Peter Seton. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on October 21, of our esteemed director emeritus, who served with wisdom and dedication on our Board from 1970 to 1996, as secretary and then as vice chairman. We extend our condolences to his wife, Mary, his daughter, Kate Heller O'Reilly, and family. Lorin Maazel, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Pres./Exec. Dir. Members of the Staff
      