
        MILLER--Ward MacLaughlin Jr., 73, husband, father and successful corporate attorney, died from pancreatic cancer October 17th at his home in Glen Ridge, New Jersey surrounded by his family. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 28th at 11:00 am at the Glen Ridge Congregational Church in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. Mr. Miller was born February 4, 1933, in New York City, but was raised in Portsmouth, Ohio as the oldest of six children. He kept close ties with Portsmouth where he served as a board member for OSCO Industries. He was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College (cum laude in 1954) and Harvard Law School (1957). He began his legal career at the law firm Carter Ledyard & Milburn. In 1961, he joined Standard Brands, later to become Nabisco Brands, where he rose to Senior Vice-President and General Counsel, and remained there through the RJR-Nabisco leveraged buyout in 1988-89 (adjusted for inflation, still the largest in history), later made famous by the book, Barbarians at the Gate. He was best known not as one of the barbarians, but rather at the gatekeeper looking out for the post-buyout welfare of the employees, thus living up to his nickname, ''Vice-President of Worry''. Altogether his 40year corporate career, mostly with Nabisco and later with Avon Products, Inc., where he served as General Counsel until his retirement in 2001, was a testament to his legal capabilities and personal relationships. Mr. Miller was an active member of the New England Society in the City of New York. He was also a member of the Harvard Club of New York City and the Montclair Golf Club, where he was an avid golfer. He was a news junkie, history buff, lover of maps, and international traveler. Mr. Miller is survived by his wife of 37 years, Mary Anne Miller of Glen Ridge, NJ; his son, Ward M. Miller III of New York City; daughter, Anne Miller and son-in-law Eric Lander, also of New York City; two sisters, Annis Reinkoester and Rosamond Van Aggelen; one brother; Henry J. Miller, and eight nieces and nephews. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the National Foundation for Cancer Research, 4600 East West Highway, Suite 525, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. Donations may also be made to the NFCR at www.nfcr.org. Please specify the Ward Miller Fund for Pancreatic Cancer Research.
      