
        STRONG--G. Gordon.Retired newspaper executive and publisher, passed away Monday in La Canada, CA. He was 92. Over his 35 year career in the newspaper business, Mr. Strong was the Publisher, President or Chairman of the Board of many newspapers or newspaper chains, including the following: Thomson Newspapers, Inc., Brush Moore Newspapers, Inc., The San Gabriel Valley Daily Tribune, The Oakland Tribune, The Canton Repository, The Eureka Times Standard, The Salisbury Times. He was also a board member of the American Newspaper Publishers Association (ANPA), its Bureau of Advertising (Chairman 1964 - 6), Ohio Newspaper Publishers Association and the Associated Press. Mr. Strong's education included earning three academic degrees by the time he was 22: two from the University of British Columbia (B. Com, 1933; AB Honors, 1934) and one from Northwestern University (MBA, 1935). He added a fourth, a law degree, from the University of Toledo, in 1940. He held teaching positions at Northwestern, University of California (Berkeley) and University of Toledo. It was during his graduate fellowship at Northwestern, while both teaching in the School of Commerce and earning an MBA, that he met and married Jean McDougall, one of his students. They were married in 1935 and headed west to an academic post at UC Berkeley, where Mr. Strong taught accounting and took courses toward a Ph.D. in Economics. The following year (1936) he was awarded a scholarship from Harvard to complete his Ph.D. Traveling across country to Harvard, the couple stopped in Toledo, OH and were persuaded by the president of the University of Toledo to stay for a year and assume a professorship. They never did make it to Harvard, making Toledo their home for the next 16 years. During World War II, he was the Director of Finance for the Mediterranean Theatre for the American Red Cross, stationed in Algiers and Naples, Italy from 1943 to 1945. Mr. Strong entered the newspaper business in 1945 when Paul Block, Jr., publisher of the Toledo Blade, recruited him, ultimately becoming Treasurer and Business Manager. In 1952 he was recruited to become General Manager of Brush-Moore Newspapers, a chain of seven Ohio and Maryland newspapers based in Canton, OH, ultimately becoming President, Publisher and Director. He led Brush-Moore for the next 15 years. In 1967, he negotiated the sale of Brush-Moore to Roy Thomas, Lord Thomson of Fleet, and Publisher of the London Times. Mr. Strong remained with Thomson Newspapers as Chairman of the Board for ten years until he retired in 1977. At the time of his retirement, Thomson Newspapers owned approximately 115 newspapers. Two days into retirement, Combined Communications asked him to return to work as Publisher of the Oakland Tribune, which he did and where he remained after Gannett Newspapers acquired Combined, until 1980, when he retired again. His wife of 65 years, the former Jean McDougall, preceded him in death in 2001. He is survived by his son, George G. Strong, Jr. of La Canada, CA, his daughter, Jeanne Strong Cassayre of Napa, CA, and six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      