
        BRINCKERHOFF--William Hall, of Palm Beach, FL Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, East Hampton, NY, formerly of Washington D.C., Edgartown, MA and Rye, NY. Son of the late Marguerite Hall Brinckerhoff and the late William Weeks Brinckerhoff. Bill was born on Christmas Day, 1929. He died peacefully on Sunday, November 12th, 2006, surrounded by his loved ones, after a courageous and cheerful battle against cancer. A true gentleman, Bill was known by all his friends for his humility, wit, and humor. Devoted father to Carol Brinckerhoff Henderson of Greenwich, CT and William Beard Brinckerhoff of Ellicott City, MD; beloved husband of Natalie Grace Brinckerhoff; cherished son-in-law of Natalie Watts Grace, devoted brother to Sidney Burr Brinckerhoff of Bellevue, WA; admiring and loving father-inlaw to Theresa T.H. Nguyen and James R. Henderson, wonderful stepfather to Edouard and Morgan Dejoux; adoring grandfather of Madeline, Graham, and Pierce Henderson and of Andrew Brinckerhoff. Bill was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, class of 1947; Princeton University, class of 1951; and Johns Hopkins University, Master of Science in 1953. Following his successful career in advertising, he served as President and Chairman of the National Institute of Social Sciences for many years in both NY and Palm Beach. He was never happier than when recognizing and honoring the character, integrity, and outstanding achievements of the Gold Medal Award recipients. Bill was a member of the Society of Colonial Wars in the State of Florida and the Holland Society of NY. Funeral services will be held at 11am on Saturday, November 18th, at Bethesda-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church, Palm Beach. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations to the National Institute of Social Sciences, P.O. Box 286774, NY, NY 10128. Telephone: 212-831-0560
        $(6$)BRINCKERHOFF--William H. The National Institute of Social Sciences notes with great sorrow the death of its Chairman and former President and expresses its deep condolences to Natalie Brinckerhoff and family. Clarence F. Michalis Past President Chauncey G. Olinger, Jr. President
      