
        GREENBERG--Morris. The Officers, Governors and Members of The Friars Club, deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Morris Greenberg. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street on November 20, at 12 Noon. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir
        $(6$)GREENFIELD--Seymour S. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) mourn the passing of Seymour S. Greenfield, the firm's former Chairman. Steve passed away on November 17 at Englewood Hospital, New Jersey. He was 84. Born in Brooklyn, Steve joined PB in 1947, following service in the U.S. Navy. He was made a partner in 1964 and served as Chairman of the Board of Directors from 1982 to 1989. He officially retired in 1995 but continued working several days a week in PB's Corporate Headquarters until his death. During his career with PB, Steve directed PB's work in the design of NORAD (North American Aerospace Defense Command) and other hardened defense facilities, and oversaw the firm's engineering design of several planned nuclear waste repositories in the U.S., as well as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in Texas and Louisiana. Long active in the Society of American Military Engineers (SAME), Steve served as President of the worldwide organization and was one of SAME's seven Life Members. We extend our sympathies to Steve's wife, Judy, his children, Meryl and Bruce, and his five grandchildren. He was truly one of the great leaders in PB's history. Thomas J. O'Neill Chairman and CEO Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc.
        $(6$)GREENFIELD--Seymour (Steve) While Steve Greenfield was Chairman and CEO of Parsons Brinckerhoff of NYC, he and David Goodman (CEO of United American Energy Corp.) along with others, founded UAE in 1980. Steve was UAE's Chairman of the Board for over 15 years as the company became a nationally recognized independent power producer. Steve Greenfield was a mentor to David Goodman and helped many young people in the engineering and design world. We shall surely miss this extraordinary visionary, superb engineer, business leader, and special human being. David Goodman Friend of Steve Greenfield Former CEO of UAE Principal of North Arrows, LLC.
      