
        OUSTERHOUT--Glenn Alan. Born October 11, 1951 in Medford, Oregon. Died November 7, 2006 in Shelter Island, New York. Grew up in Eagle Point, Oregon; Davis, California; Tacoma Park and Silver Spring, Maryland; Barrington, Illinois; and Narragansett, Rhode Island. Graduated from South Kingstown High School in Wakefield, Rhode Island in 1969. Graduated from Northwestern University (Evanston, Illinois) in 1973 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering (B.S.Ch.E.). Was in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) and a member of Acacia fraternity. Upon graduation was commissioned as an Ensign, U.S. Navy. Served as an officer in the U.S. Navy for four years from 1973 to 1977, on board the frigate USS Voge (FF-1047) for three years where he was the Main Propulsion Assistant and Navigator, and onboard the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga (CV-60) for one year where he was the Boilers Officer. Was qualified as a Surface Warfare Officer and was a Certified Steam Generating Plant Inspector. He made two cruises to the Mediterranean Sea on the Voge and was a Lieutenant when he got out. Graduated from Georgetown University Law Center (Washington, D.C) in 1980 with a Juris Doctor degree (J.D.), magna cum laude. Was on the Georgetown Law Journal and was a law fellow (instructor of legal research and writing). Married Beau Gage, May 24th, 1980 in Washington D.C. They moved to New York City in September 1980 and Glenn began as an associate attorney at the law firm of Fish & Neave, a firm specializing in intellectual property law that represented many famous inventors including the Wright brothers and Alexander Graham Bell. Glenn specialized in patent litigation and other aspects of patent law, and became a Partner in 1989. He served on the Managing Committee from 1993-1994. His clients for patent litigation included DuPont, Hoechst Celanses, Exxon Mobil Chemical Company, GE Plastics, BASF and Arrow International. In 2005, Fish & Neave merged with Ropes & Gray and became the Fish & Neave IP Group of Ropes & Gray. He retired from Ropes & Gray at the end of 2005 due to health reasons. He was a member of the bars of the State of New York and various federal courts including the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and was registered to practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. He was a member of and was active in the American Bar Association Sections of Litigation and Intellectual Property Law, the American Intellectual Property Law Association, The Federal Circuit Bar Association and the New York Intellectual Property Law Association. He was a fan of modern dance from the mid 1980's and was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance and was on the Advisory Board of Buglisi-Foreman Dance, and supported other modern dance companies. Glenn and Beau began going to Shelter Island in the summer of 1987. Glenn loved Shelter Island and enjoyed many activities such as sailing, bicycling, swimming, gardening, bird watching and beach walking. He was an associate member of St. Mary's Episcopal Church and supported The Nature Conservancy, The Peconic Land Trust and various island causes. In March 1999, Glenn was diagnosed with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) which he battled for six years, including a bone marrow transplant and a peripheral blood stem cell transplant both at Memorial SloanKettering Hospital. His youngest brother Keith was the donor. Then, in September 2005, he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease). He is survived by his wife Beau, his father Lawrence Elwyn Ousterhout of Ridgeland, MS, his sisters, Nancy Marie Cropp of Dallas, TX, Dr. Julia Mae Ousterhout of Kirksville, MO, and Paula Anne Bussard of Carlisle, PA, and his brothers David Elwyn of Narragansett, RI, Lloyd Brian of Pelahatchie, MS and Keith Eric of Brandon, MS. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Mary's Episcopal Church, The Peconic Land Trust or The Nature Conservancy. The Burial Service will be held at St. Mary's Episcopal Church, 26 St. Mary's Road, Shelter Island, NY at 1 pm Saturday November 11, 2006. Church contact, 631749-0770.
      