
        LEE--Joseph A. Jr. of Carmel, CA, died on Wednesday, November 1, at the age of 84. Joe Lee was born in 1921, in Evanston, IL, and raised in Greenwich, CT, the only child of Joseph A. and Barbara (Senseney) Lee of Deer Park in Greenwich. He attended The Greenwich Country Day School, Hotchkiss, Yale University and the Harvard Business School. During World War II he served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Air Corps. Following graduation he entered into the investment business in New York City with Union Securities Corp. in 1948. From there he went to the Reynolds Co where he was a manager of the institutional department and then on to Bankers Trust Co where he served as Vice President and Deputy Director of investment research. From 1966 to 1976 he worked for Rockefeller Family and Associates as Senior Investment Advisor. In 1976 he semi-retired to Carmel with his wife Barbara (Burnham), where he became involved with numerous charitable, civic and business interests, and pursued his lifelong love of golf at Cypress Point Club and The Monterey Peninsula Country Club. Through the years he remained consistently himself: a devoted husband; a loving father and grandfather; a loyal and generous friend; a passionate golfer; and a deeply interested observer of current events, especially in the fields of business, finance, politics and sports. He is survived by his wife, Barbara B. Lee, of Pebble Beach; a daughter, Linda L. Smith, of El Cerrito, CA; three sons, Donald P. Lee of Boston, MA; Allen C. Lee of Tucson, AZ; Andrew S. Lee of San Rafael, CA; a son-in-law, Robert Smith; two daughtersin-law, Nancy J. Lee and Sandra P. Lee; four grandchildren, Rachel Lee, Joe Lee, Leeland Smith and Elijah Smith; a step-grandson, Jason Hammer; a step-daughter-in-law, Katherine H. Hammer; and a step-great-granddaughter, Eleanor. A memorial service will be held at 1 pm, on Monday, November 6, 2006, at The Mission Mortuary, 450 Camino El Estero, Monterey, CA; (831) 375-4129. A reception will follow. In lieu of flowers gifts can be made to the Alzheimer's Association, 182 El Dorado Street, Monterey, CA 93940.
      