
        CROWNINGSHIELD--Robert G.arly pioneer in gemology, the scientific study of gemstones, beloved colleague, teacher and mentor to thousands of jewelers and gemologists, and long-time resident of Manhattan, passed away on November 8, 2006 at age 87. For more than 55 years, he gave selflessly to the Gemological Institute of America (GIA) and its people, building a body of gemological knowledge personally and deliberately, gemstone by gemstone. Considered the father of modern gemological research in spectrometry, he was born in Colorado Springs, Colorado in 1919 and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from San Diego State University in 1942. He served as a navigator in the Navy during World War II from 1942-45, and during his tour of duty in the Pacific broadened his knowledge of gems and their sources in foreign markets. Upon his discharge, he attended GIA in Los Angeles where he earned a Graduate Gemologist diploma and in 1948 the Fellowship with Distinction Award from the Gemmological Association of Great Britain. In 1949, employed by GIA, he came to Manhattan to establish a laboratory dedicated to the grading and identification of diamonds and gemstones. He served as the GIA Laboratory director from 1952 to 1977, then as its vice president from 1977 to the present. During his 55 year career, he examined tens of thousands of gemstones and was responsible for many significant contributions to the study of gems which today allow gemologists to detect treated and synthetic gem materials. These include advances in the understanding and identification of treated and synthetic diamonds; colored stones such as tanzanite, tsavorite, and amethyst, and untreated and treated natural and cultured pearls. In the early 1950s he contributed to the development of the GIA Diamond Grading System, a standard now used worldwide to assess the quality of polished diamonds. He also demonstrated the value of using gemological equipment developed for other disciplines, such as the prism spectroscope, in gem testing. He shared his practical experience in lectures, presentations, and in numerous articles published by the scholarly journal, Gems & Gemology. He was the recipient of a number of important awards including, the American Gem Society Robert M. Shipley Award (1983); Gems & Gemology Most Valuable Article Award (1986); Accredited Gemologists Association Award (1991), Modern Jeweler Lifetime Achievement Award (1995), and the American Gem Society Lifetime Achievement Award (2003). In recognition of his immeasurable contribution to the science of gemology, GIA in 1997 formally named its Carlsbad, California research facility the G. Robert Crowningshield Gemological Research Laboratory. He is survived by several nieces and nephews; a body of work which serves as the foundation of modern gemological science; and by a global family of gemologists, jewelers, students, and colleagues who will deeply miss his honesty, courtesy, kindness, and friendship. A celebration of his life will be held in January.
      