
        KAYE--Stephen. The Officers, Directors and Executive Director of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association extend their sincere condolences to our Chief Judge on the passing of her beloved husband, Stephen Kaye.
        $(6$)KAYE--Stephen. Congregtion Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas
        $(6$)KAYE--Stephen Rackow. On October 30, 2006. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Luisa, Jonathan and Nielufar, Gordon and Anna. Cherished grandfather of Sonja, Andie and Ben, Shirin and Shayna, Amelia. Services Wednesday 9:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Avenue.
        $(6$)KAYE -- Stephen Rackow. The partners, counsel, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved senior partner and former Chair of our Litigation and Dispute Resolution Department, Stephen Rackow Kaye. Steve joined Proskauer more than 40 years ago, a graduate of Cornell Law School, where he was Managing Editor of the Cornell Law Quarterly and from which he graduated with distinction. Steve became one of the nation's preeminent litigators, with a wealth of trial and appellate experience. In recent years, Steve, a member of the American Arbitration Association's Commercial Panel of Neutral Arbitrators and its Panel of International Arbitrators, increasingly served as an arbitrator or mediator in major disputes. Steve was one of the great trial lawyers of his generation. He had a practice of astonishing breadth on behalf of a roster of well-known clients. Among the matters for which he is best known, he successfully represented: the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority in appellate proceedings in 2003 rejecting challenges to fare and toll increases; Reed Elsevier and Matthew Bender (Lexis-Nexis) in prosecuting their suit against Jurisline.com to final judgment and dismissal of the copyright preemption and antitrust claims asserted against them; 83 American and European publishers of scientific and technical journals at trial and on appeal in a landmark case against Texaco for copyright infringement by unauthorized intra-corporate photocopying of journal articles; and Starrett Housing Corp. in its expropriation case against the Islamic Republic of Iran, resulting in the recovery of $59 million after two major international arbitration hearings at The Hague and many months of valuation proceedings before Tribunal-appointed Swedish experts. Throughout his career, Steve was a leader in efforts to improve the quality of legal practice in New York and raise the esteem in which our court system is held. He was a member of the Policy Committee of the First Department Disciplinary Committee and Hearing Panel Chair for that Committee; member of the New York State Judicial Institute on Professionalism in the Law; Chair of the Committee on Professional Discipline and Chair of the Committee on Professional and Judicial Ethics of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. Until recently, he served as a Trustee of The Historical Society of the Courts of the State of New York. Steve was a prolific author and lecturer. He was the principal author of the ninechapter, 645-page text concerning trial of complex commercial cases in the treatise, Commercial Litigation in the New York State Courts (West Publishing Company), known as the ''bible'' of complex state court litigation. Steve's love of the law manifested itself in many ways, including his joy in teaching younger lawyers, many of whom became successful partners at Proskauer.Steve's devotion to his clients was unwavering and he was dedicated to the highest standards of professional conduct. In the tradition of great lawyers, Steve delighted in shouldering great responsibility, in making the crucial decisions and in charting the path to a successful outcome. He was an inspiration to all of us and we were profoundly privileged to have worked with him. Prior to attending Cornell Law School, Steve served with the 25th Infantry Division in Korea in 1953-54. He is survived by three grown children and six grandchildren, along with his spouse, one of the nation's most esteemed jurists, the Hon. Judith S. Kaye, Chief Judge of the State of New York and its highest court, the Court of Appeals, and by several generations of Proskauer litigators whom he trained, for whom he served as mentor, and by whom he will always be warmly remembered. Allen I. Fagin, Chair Proskauer Rose
      