
        PFAFF--Robert Frederick. Col., U.S. Army, Corps of Engineers, Reserve, (retd). Age 85. Born in Brooklyn, New York, 1920, died in Los Angeles, California, 2006. Beloved husband of Janet, cherished father of Virginia Rohay (Alan) and Robert F. Pfaff, Jr. (Julienne), grandfather of James and William Pfaff, dearest brother of Mildred Nicholson. After graduating from Townsend Harris High School, Bob earned his Civil Engineering degree at the College of the City of New York in 1941 and went into military service in 1942. He made the first landing in North Africa in 1942 and fought in the Africa and Italian campaigns, entering Rome on the day of its liberation in June, 1944. Upon return to the States in 1945, Bob began his long professional career, becoming in 1946 the youngest Professional Engineer ever licensed by the State of New York (up to that time), and going on to a Master of Civil Engineering degree at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. In the coming years, Bob participated in a variety of civil and structural engineering projects on both coasts. In New York, he worked for EBASCO and the petroleum engineering firm, Max B. Miller & Co., designing the Seattle Gas Works in the late 1940s. He then became the Chief Structural Engineer for the National Biscuit Company where he designed the structural elements of the company's main plant in Fairlawn, New Jersey in the 1950s. The focus of Bob's engineering interests then shifted to the aerospace industry, as he took positions first with Burns and Roe, Inc., and then with the Douglas Aircraft Company (McDonnell Douglas) in Los Angeles. The Nike-Zeus and Spartan/Safeguard initiatives, as well as the Manned Orbital Laboratory and TRESTLE projects for the US Air Force, were among the many programs in which Bob had a significant management involvement. Bob was a graduate of the Army War College and taught several engineering courses at Cal State Long Beach. A loyal and enthusiastic member of many military, engineering, scholarly, and philosophic societies, Bob was a Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers, a Fellow of the Society of American Military Engineers, a member of the Society of the Sigma Xi, and a member of Tau Beta Pi, the engineering honor society. Bob's ashes were buried in Arlington National Cemetery with Full Honors on October 10, 2006. He was deeply loved and will be sorely missed.
      