
        KYRIAZES--George, on November 24, 2006, after a long, valiant battle, of complications from a brain tumor. Born in Samos, Greece 1948, son of Kalliope Kyriazes and the late Dr. Dimitrios Kyriazes. He graduated from high school in Samos, then attended Mount Herman Preparatory School of Massachusetts in 1967. He attended Columbia School of Engineering, he was an honors student and a star soccer player, and member of the Art Students League, excelling at fine arts drawing and industrial drafting. During his third year of undergraduate studies, George became fascinated with econometrics and the role of computing in business. He changed his major and graduated with a BA in Economics from Columbia College in 1972, and a MBA in Finance from Columbia Business School in 1975. He devoted his entire professional career to CBS, starting as a Financial Analyst in 1975, and held increasingly responsible positions in CBS records, Corporate Finance and the CBS Television Network. In 2001 he was appointed Vice President, Finance, Sales Analysis and Development. In that position through his departure in 2005, George played an integral role in developing CBS Network Television Sales strategy. George was highly regarded for his superb analytical and managerial skills, his vision, planning and execution, and above all his human touch in collaborating with and helping his colleagues as a team member, leader, mentor and friend. An ardent fan of all sports, his New York friends forgave him his preference for the Boston Red Sox. He served for 15 years as a Board MemBer for the Epilepsy Institute. He is survived by his wife Sheila and by his Mother, Kalliope Kyriazes, and he is survived by a large group of family and friends. Funeral Services 9:30 AM from Shook's Cedar Grove Funeral Home, 486 Pompton Avenue, (Route 23), Cedar Grove, NJ 07009. 10:30AM Sts. Helen and Constantine G.O. Church, Orange, NJ. Interment at Prospect Hill Cemetery, Caldwell. Visiting Hours Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9.
      