
        WAGNER--Phyllis Cerf, New York Legal Assistants Group (NYLAG) mourns the loss of one of its earliest donors and ardent supporters, Phyllis Cerf Wagner. We are proud to have benefited from her philanthropy. We extend our deepest sympathies to Chris, Jonathan, Roseann and Duncan. Kathryn O. Greenberg Founder and Chairman Emeritus
        $(6$)WAGNER--Phyllis, Cerf. The members of the Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy were deeply saddened to learn of the death of Phyllis Cerf Wagner, one of our four founders and a past president. She was an inspiration to us all and led us with her creativity and genius over the last twenty-five years. It was her concept to establish the Adopt - A - Bench program which has raised many millions for the Park's restoration. She brought her vast knowledge and experience from the worlds of publishing, politics and advertising to our board and she used these assets wisely for the benefit of Central Park. Phyllis demanded excellence from her fellow board members and we were happy to comply. Sadly, we will miss her enthusiasm and brilliance. We extend our heart-felt sympathies to Jonathan and Christopher Cerf and Duncan Wagner
        $(6$)WAGNER--Phyllis, Cerf on November 25th, 2006. Widow of Bennett Cerf and Robert F. Wagner. Mother of Christopher and Jonathan Cerf, stepmother of Duncan Wagner and mother-in-law of Rosanne Cerf. Family will receive friends, Thursday from 4 to 7 pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. A memorial service to be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations in her name may be made to the Central Park Conservancy, Woman's Committee, 14 East 60 Street, New York, NY 10022.
        $(6$)WAGNER--Phyllis, Cerf, A.J.C. Smith, Chairman, and The Board of Trustees and staff of the Central Park Conservancy note with deep sadness the passing of Phyllis Cerf Wagner, a Founder of the Women's Committee and member of the Board since 1989. During her tenure with the Conservancy, and throughout its formative years, Phyllis's strong leadership and generosity provided a solid foundation for Central Park's renaissance. The progress made in revitalizing the Park will stand as a lasting tribute to a special woman. We extend our sympathies to her family and friends. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy
        $(6$)WAGNER--Phyllis Cerf. The NYU community mourns the loss of its long-time friend and trustee, Phyllis Cerf Wagner. Like NYU itself, Phyllis Wagner embraced and exemplified everything that was great about New York: from the time she arrived here, she set the town on fire with her talent, energy, and love for everything that makes New York the worlds greatest city. Her activities included a huge span of New York life: public service, journalism, publishing, advertising, the media , and politics, to name a few. She also shepherded the effort that led to NYU's graduate school of public administration being renamed the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, a fitting tribute to her husband, the late mayor, his family's service to this city, and her own dedication to public service. She was a valued and devoted Trustee of the University for 16 years, and she has been a Life Trustee for the 14 years since. Her absence will be felt throughout New York, but nowhere more keenly than on NYU's campus. On behalf of the Entire NYU community, we extend our condolensces to her loved ones; our thoughts are with them at this sad time. Ellen Schall, Dean, NYU's Robert F. Wagner Gradudate School of Public Service John Sexton, President, NYU Martin Lipton, Chair, NYU Board of Trustees
      