
        BURNETT--William O., 75, a resident of Stamford, CT, quietly passed away from complications of Parkinson's Disease on the day of his 75th birthday, at the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, CT, surrounded by his family. Funeral services will be held on November 14th at 10 AM at St. John's Episcopal Church, 628 Main Street, Stamford, CT. Burial will follow at The Woodland Cemetery in Stamford. Friends may call at the Bouton-Reynolds Funeral Home, 2900 Summer Street, Stamford, CT on Monday November 13th from 4-7 PM. Mr. Burnett was born on November 11, 1931 in Marshalltown, Iowa, the son of the late Buford and Ila Burnett. In 1949, Mr. Burnett graduated from Marshalltown High School, where he lettered in three sports and was captain of both the football and basketball teams. He graduated from Northwestern University with a B.S. in Engineering in 1954. While at Northwestern, he was President of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Upon graduation, Mr. Burnett was employed as an engineer for International Business Machines in Chicago. From 1958 to 1976, he was a stockbroker and institutional research analyst with Goodbody & Company, Jesup and Lamont, and Shaw and Company. In 1976, he cofounded Shaw Data Services, where he was Chairman and CEO. Shaw Data Services was an industry-leading financial services software firm, and was acquired by Sungard Data Systems. He also was Chairman and President of Shaw Data Securities, a leading provider of soft dollar brokerage solutions to the institutional investment advisory community. Mr. Burnett was a member of The Chartered Financial Analysts Institute and served on the Board of Directors of several firms, including Carvel Ice Cream. More recently, he was a member of the Board of SoundWaters in Stamford, a non-profit organization specializing in education about the beauty and preservation of Long Island Sound. He was very active in the Episcopal Church, serving on the vestries of both Saint Peter's Church in Mountain Lakes, NJ and St. John's Church of Stamford. An avid outdoorsman, Mr. Burnett enjoyed hunting in his early years and was an accomplished fresh and saltwater fisherman. He enjoyed traveling and took numerous trips to Europe, Africa and Asia. Mr. Burnett is survived by his wife Penney (Poppe); his former wife Lee (Quicksell) of Jacksonville, FL; sons Bradford and his wife Judith of Montville, NJ, and Peter and his wife Mary Kay and their children Andrew and Allison of Cohasset, MA; daughters Jennifer (Hu) and husband Jonathan and their children Courtney and Holley of Jacksonville, FL, and Kathryn (Siri), also of Jacksonville, FL. In lieu of flowers, donations should be sent to: The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Disease Research, Grand Central Station, P.O. Box 4777, New York, NY 10163.
      