
        VASILLOV--Magda J., art historian, teacher and scholar died on November 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. The cause was kidney cancer. She was 72, and lived in New Rochelle, NY, with her husband Robert Denison. Magda was Chairperson of the Humanities Department at Hostos Community College CUNY. Magda J. Keesal was born in Oak Park, IL, the daughter of Samuel and Colette Keesal. Magda, graduated first in her class at Wellesley College in 1955. She was then chosen to be a research assistant and student of the legendary Walter Friedlaender at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University. She worked and studied with Friedlaender from 1955 until 1958, while also polishing his English writings and taking the great scholar to Tripler when he needed a suit. In 1958 she left her graduate work to marry photographer Wasil W. (Bill) Vasillov. Magda gave birth to daughters, Natasha, Susanna, and Marya between 1958 and 1961, the year her husband died of a heart attack. With three children, Magda heroically undertook a series of jobs as a photographer and graphic designer to support her young family. She became a lecturer at Marymount Fifth Avenue School of New York, from which her daughters graduated. In 1970 Magda became one of the earliest employees of the new CUNY school in the South Bronx, Hostos Community College. She started a photography darkroom for college media use, but by popular demand she began teaching photography and darkroom technique.Magda's erudition and popularity as a teacher led her to become a lecturer in Arts and Civilization. as well as in Photography. From 1974 to 1980 she returned to the Institute of Fine Arts and completed her graduate work. In 1985 she completed a personal project tracing Charles Darwin's use of the photographers of his time. Magda was the Guest Curator of a show titled, Photographs Collected by Charles Darwin for His Study of the Expression of the Emotions, at Cambridge University Library, England, 1985. Magda J. Vasillov married Robert M. Denison in 1993 and is survived by her husband, and by three daughters, Natasha Cotter (Patrick), and Susanna J. Vasillov, and Marya Mahony (Phillip), of New York, and by her brothers Samuel, Christopher, and Peter and sister Kendall Walsh, and four grandchildren, Patrick, Caroline, Phillip, and William Mahony. A memorial Mass will be said at St. Jean Baptiste Church, on Lexington Ave. at 76th St., New York, at 1:30 p.m. on Tuesday, December 5, 2006. Donations in lieu of flowers may be made to the Professor Magda Vasillov Scholarship Fund at Hostos Community College.
      