
        NEGLEY--William died November 7, 2006 in San Antonio, Texas. He was born in San Antonio on March 28, 1914 to Laura Burleson Negley and Richard Van Wyck Negley. He attended primary school in San Antonio and was graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1932. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Texas in 1935, attended the University of Texas Law School and was admitted to the Texas Bar Association in 1937. He practiced law with the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey in the United States and Venezuela until he volunteered for military service in 1942. Upon discharge he founded, with the help of his father-in-law Lutcher Brown, a paper bag manufacturing plant in Monroe, Louisiana. He sold the company to Olin Mathison in 1957 and started a business developing lots and building homes in San Antonio. Some years later he was asked by his father, Richard Negley, to take over management of the Negley Paint Company. He did and operated it very successfully until it was sold in 1985. Mr. Negley was married to Carolyn Brown from 1942 until 1958. In 1977 Mr. Negley married Lolly Carrigan Fitzsimons and spent many happy years with her until her death in 1993. Mr. Negley's two brothers, Albert and Richard were killed in World War II. Mr. Negley is survived by three children, Laura Negley Gill, James Lutcher Negley and Richard Burleson Negley; ten grandchildren, Christopher Burleson Gill, Carolyn Gill French, Josephine Gill Davidson, Richard Negley Gill, Emily Negley Martin, Nancy Negley Krissoff, Sydney Negley Mulder, William Waters Negley, Jamie Lutcher Negley and Suzanne Clementine Negley; four great-grandchildren, Laura Wells French, Adele Burleson Davidson, Henry Walling Martin and Amelia Gill French. He was also a loving and enthusiastic step-father to Pamela Fitzsimons Howard, Hugh A. Fitzsimons, III and Joseph B.C. Fitzsimons and step-grandfather of Anson Boulware Howard, Laura Isabel Howard, Louisa Carrigan Fitzsimons Howard, Hugh A. Fitzsimons, IV, Patrick Carrigan Fitzsimons and Evelyn Bailey Fitzsimons, Fay Carrigan Fitzsimons, Jonathan Calvert Fitzsimons and Katherine Burgwin Fitzsimons.Throughout his life Mr. Negley was an enthusiastic hunter, fisherman and conservationist. He was captain of the last United States team to fish in the International Tuna Match in Nova Scotia and held several fly rod and bow hunting world records. He was the first and only bow hunter to take buffalo, elephant, black rhino, leopard and lion with no rifle protection. In later life Mr. Negley spent a great deal of his time working on the conservation and protection of the fish, shrimp and crabs of the bays of Texas. He was an early and strong supporter of the concept of buying out the rights of commercial harvesters of shrimp, crabs and finfish in order to protect those assets for the recreational use of the general public. Mr. Negley was a life board member of the Coastal Conservation Association and in 2000 was named Conservationist of the Year by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Commission. A memorial service will be held at Christ Church, 510 Belknap, San Antonio on Friday, November 10 at 1:30 PM. Contributions in lieu of flowers may be sent to Phillips Exeter Academy or the Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation.
      