
        ROSENTHAL--Hinda. Words cannot express how deeply we will miss our beloved friend, surrogate mother, godmother. Her warmth, charm and generosity touched multitudes. Our condolences to all the Rosenthals and Rosenbergs. Joni Maya Cherbo Adam M. S. Heine
        $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Hinda Gould. Columbia University Medical Center mourns the loss of a dear friend and generous supporter, philanthropist Hinda Rosenthal. With her late husband, she founded the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine and also supported cardiovascular research at Columbia. The Rosenthals, through their family foundation, lent their name and largesse to many worthy causes in New York, from the arts to scientific research and clinical medicine. Mrs. Rosenthal also contributed her time and service as a member of the ColumbiaPresbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council; we count her work on the Council as one of her many gifts to us. We offer our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Rosenthal's family. Lee Goldman, M.D. Executive Vice President, Columbia University Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center
        $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Hinda The Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons notes with deep sorrow and heavy hearts the passing of our beloved founder, friend and long-time supporter, Hinda Gould Rosenthal. She was a pioneer, progressive and courageous; and with her late husband Richard, blazed a trail by initiating a broadbased alternative medicine program at an academic medical center when no other existed, leading the way for others later to follow. She will be remembered for her indomitable spirit, visionary leadership, integrity, passion and incredible zest for life. She embodied all that is best in the human spirit and heart, and was one-of-a-kind. Her generosity, personal interest and dedication over the past 13 years has been an inspiration to us all. We will deeply miss her wisdom, creativity, warmth and friendship and are so grateful for the chance to have been a part of her life. We extend our sincere condolences to her beloved husband Bernie, to Rick, Jamie and all of the Rosenthal and Rosenberg families. With great admiration, respect and love. Fredi Kronenberg, Director
        $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Hinda. The family of Hinda Gould Rosenthal mourns her passing at Stamford Hospital Monday, November 6th at the age of 85. She is survived by two children, Jamie Wolf and Rick Rosenthal, her four grandchildren, and her husband, Doctor Bernard A. Rosenberg. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Columbia University, College P&S Box 75, NY, NY 10032 or Stamford Hospital, 30 Shelburne Road, Stamford, CT 06904
        $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Hinda G. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Hinda Gould Rosenthal, whose commitment and generosity strengthened our ability to serve those in need and enriched the New York Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      