
        REILLY -- Adrianne Baker, died Friday, November 10, 2006, in Greenwich, CT, after a long illness. She was born in New York City on June 9, 1934. A life-long resident of Greenwich, she was the daughter of Griffith Mark and Elinor Medill Patterson. Griffith Mark was a financier with the Guaranty Trust Co. and Clayton Mark & Co. Elinor Patterson was an actress, best known for her role as Nun in the play, The Miracle. Mrs. Reilly was the greatgranddaughter of famed publisher Joseph Medill, who led the Chicago Tribune as editor, publisher and owner from 1855 to 1899. He also served as mayor of Chicago from 1871 to 1873, after the Great Fire. Mrs. Reilly was the granddaughter of Joseph Medill Patterson, who ran the Tribune after his father's death and subsequently founded the New York Daily News. Her aunt, Alicia Patterson, was the founder and editor of Newsday. Mrs. Reilly's devotion to the Episcopal Church manifested itself in her generous support of numerous programs at Grace Episcopal Church, White Plains, NY, St. Peter's Episcopal Church, Peekskill, NY, Zion Episcopal Church, Dobbs Ferry, NY, St. Marks' Episcopal Cathedral, Seattle, WA, and St. James's Church, Ewhurst, Sussex, England. A lifelong traveler to many continents, she donated generously to a number of international aid organizations and was particularly interested in those furthering education and healthcare in Africa, including Doctors Without Borders, AmeriCares, the Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation and the Hearts Helping Hands Foundation. She also supported many charities in the United States. In addition to her ongoing support of established philanthropies, Mrs. Reilly quietly and often anonymously gave substantial financial assistance to numerous individuals with educational, heathcare and other needs. Mrs. Reilly volunteered at Grace Episcopal Church, where she also served on the vestry and as junior warden, as well as at St. Peter's Church and Naples Community Hospital, Naples, FL. She was a founding board member of Downtown Music at Grace in White Plains. She was honored for her services to the community at St. Peter's Church in 1999 and at Downtown Music in 2005. She was pre-deceased by her former husband, Edward J. Reilly, who was a litigation partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy in New York. She is survived by her son Kenneth, of Darien, and grandchildren Michael and Margaret. A memorial service will be held at Grace Church, 33 Church St, White Plains, at 10:00AM on Tuesday November 14. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Adrianne B. Reilly Foundation, c/o John Winthrop & Co., 1 N. Adgers Wharf, Charleston, SC 29401.
      