
        KELLAR--Curtis Bradbury, 90. Born July 16, 1916, died November 18, 2006, of congestive heart failure, peacefully at his home in NYC. Son of the late Horatio Ellsworth and Laura Koontz Kellar. Predeceased by his brother Henry Ellsworth Kellar. Beloved father of Lucia, Bill (Peggy), Betsy (Bruce) Noll, Martha (Mark) Ash, predeased by Curtis Jr.; and stepfather of Lincoln (Louise) Clark, Paul (Jane) Knopf, predeceased by Stephen Knopf. Loving grandfather of Devon and Scott Kellar, Ethan and Hilary Noll, great-grandfather of Kellar Archer Noll. Beloved uncle of Cathy Ann (Mac) Martin, Scott (Tracey) Kellar, Brad Kellar and Laura (Tim) Shallbetter, and brother-in-law of Ann Scott Kellar. Fond step-grandfather and great uncle of 13. Predeceased by his wife Amy Vanderbilt and companion Bonnie Cashin; survived by his former wife Mary Ames Poor. He was born and raised in Albert Lea, MN, received his BA from the University of Minnesota Law School. He was a member of the National Board of Visitors of the Law School. In memory of his father he created The Horatio Ellsworth Kellar Distinguished Visitors Program, an interdisciplinary lecture series connecting emerging issues in the law with disciples such as art, drama and literature. He endowed the Curtis Bradbury Kellar Chair in Law, and The Curtis B. Kellar Faculty Library was named by the Law School in recognition of his generous support. He served for five years in the Navy (Lieutenant Commander) during World War II in every theatre of war, including the battle of Guadalcanal. He received a Citation for Heroic Achievement and was awarded the Bronze Star. After the war, he moved to Montclair, NJ where he raised his family. He began his legal career at Winthrop, Stimpson, Putnam & Roberts, and after a brief period at W.R. Grace & Co he joined the Office of General Counsel at Mobil Oil Corporation as the corporate finance lawyer. Later he moved to the International Division; he retired from Mobil in 1981 as Associate General Counsel of the corporation. Following his retirement, he devoted his time to pro bono work for the Innovative Design Fund, a charitable foundation established by Bonnie Cashin to provide financial assistance to talented young designers. He was an avid family genealogist, often regaling his children with tales of their forbears, and well as stories of his WW II adventurers. He was a member of the Sons of the Colonial Wars, The Union Club, a Knight of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem and a long time parishioner of St. Thomas Episcopal Church. During his last years, he was lovingly cared for by his wonderful aides Lenora, Alicia, Jackie, Daphne, Morgan and Hyacinth. He will be sorely missed by his family and good friends. Funeral service at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave and 53rd St., on Saturday December 2nd at 2pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to Dr. Michael Freedman, NYU Division of Geriatrics, 550 1st Ave, NY, NY 10016 or St. Thomas Church Choir School (Scholarship Fund), 1 West 53rd St. NY, NY 10019.
      