
        DURKAN--Frank, on November 16, 2006. Native of Bohola, Co. Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Monica (nee Goggins); father of Mary L. Martin and Ashling J. Durkan; also survived by Lisa Durkan (mother of Mary and Ashling), two grandsons, Brian and Declan and son-in-law Steadroy Martin. Visitation will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., NYC, Saturday and Sunday 24 and 7-9. Funeral Mass Monday 10AM, Holy Trinity R. C. Church, 218 West 82 St., NYC. Burial, Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations to The Mayo Foundation For the Handicapped would be appreciated.
        $(6$)DURKAN--Frank The officers and members of the Irish Institute of New York Inc mourn the passing of our beloved friend, colleague, past president, and current Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Frank Durkan, on November 16th, 2006. Not only the institute, which he served for over half a century, but the whole Irish-American community sustains the loss of a wise and skilled counselor, whose sage advice was sought by many and was freely and generously given. Loyal to his adopted country as well as to his native land, which he loved so well, a modest, gracious, and faithful man has gone to his rest and we are all poorer. His many noble qualities have so endeared his memory to us that they will serve as a beacon of light for those who are left behind. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Monica, his daughters Mary and Ashling, and to his entire extended family. Kevin Morrissey President
        $(6$)DURKAN--Frank. The Officers and members of The Brehon Law Society mourn the loss of our beloved counsel and founder, aggressive advocate for peace and justice in a free and undivided Ireland, guardian and protector of the Bill of Rights, fighter against internment and diplock courts, and fearless champion of the oppressed. Our hearts and prayers: The Brehon Law Society
        $(6$)DURKAN--Frank. The Officers and Members of the Mayo Foundation for the Handicapped mourn the loss of a Founding Member and Executive Member of the Foundation. His guidance paved the way for the creation of the O'Dwyer Cheshire Home in Bohola, County Mayo, Ireland. His dedication as a Board Member has made the Home as successful as it is today. Our prayers go to his wife Monica, his daughters Ashling and Mary Louise and her family. Mayo Foundation for the Handicapped Box 838 Goshen, NY 10924 William O'Dwyer, M.D., President
        $(6$)DURKAN--Frank. Condolences are extended to the family of Frank Durkan and his colleagues. John P. Deacy.
      