
        STEINSCHNEIDER--E. Rowan ''Row'', passed away comfortably on October 31 at home, with his loving wife and family in attendance. A resident of Winnetka, Illinois with homes in Westhampton Beach, New York and Anna Maria Island. Florida. Row was born in Rockville Centre, New York on December 1, 1926, the youngest son of Richard and Marie Steinschneider. A Navy veteran of World War II, after the war Row attended Columbia College, receiving his B.A. in the graduating class of 1949. He was a John Jay Associate and life-long friend to Columbia. In 1949 Row married his high school sweetheart Barbara O'Neill and set about starting a family and building a career in his lifelong love of business. Row had an artistic talent for business that defied simple definitions. The first business that he built was in automobile finance and in 1959 he was the President and CEO of Yegan Associates, Midwest. In 1969 with uncanny foresight into the future of automobile financing, Row sold his interests in Yegan and created Columbia Financial, Columbia Interstate and Columbia Life & Casualty insurance companies. He was the financial partner in three of the most successful restaurants in Manhattan. He enjoyed real estate development, which gave him the opportunity to work with his children in the creation of award-winning and community building projects. He had prescient timing and vision for the creative side of business. Row's enthusiasm for life and his devotion to his family was obvious to all who knew him. He enjoyed the company of young people and was the sage for many of his children's friends. He is survived by his wife Barbara, son Padriac (Debra), three daughters, Barbara (Robert) Stahl, Tara (Davoud Vossough) and Deirdre (Julius) Kletacz and four most loved grandchildren, Michael, Chloe, Thomas and Marie. He was predeceased by his brother Richard Stein schneider and sister Fair Higginbottom. Row loved Jesus and was a communicant at Sacred Heart Church in Winnetka. A Funeral Mass for Row will be celebrated on Saturday November 11 at 11am at Sacred Heart Church, 1071 Tower Road, Winnetka. Interment private. We ask friends who wish to make gifts in memory of Row to send donations to The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain at Columbia University Medical Center, attention Jane Sherman, 630 West 168th Street, PH 18-303, New York, NY 10032. Info: Donnellan Family Funeral Services (847) 675-1990 or www.donnellanfuneral.com
      