
        BAIN--Linda Miller died peacefully at her home in Southold, NY on November 19, 2006 in the presence of her family. She is survived by her husband of 47 years, Alan Lind Bain, her daughter, Heather Lind Bain, her son, Ian Alexander Lind Bain, her daughter-in-law, Jill Calabrese Bain, and twin grandchildren, Andrew Michael Lind Bain and Emma Angelina Lind Bain; her brother Dr. Byron Strongman Miller and her sister, Gail Hart Miller. Linda was born at Doctor's Hospital, New York City, on July 30, 1937 to Florence Hart Miller and Byron Strongman Miller. Her childhood was spent in family homes in Miami, FL, Honesdale, PA, and the Sherry Netherland in the New York City. In 1954, she relocated to Greenwich, CT where she attended the Greenwich Academy and later St. Margaret's School, Waterbury, CT. During her senior year she met her future husband, Alan L. Bain, who was attending The Gunnery School, in nearby Washington, CT as an English speaking Union Exchange Student. After graduating from Wheaton College, Norton, MA in 1957, with a B.A. in English, and, following her June marriage that year, Linda took up residence in Cambridge, England where her husband Alan was completing his law studies at St. Catharine's College, Cambridge University and in London. She returned to New York in 1961, becoming active in the Junior League of the city of New York, of which she became president in 1977. Linda's intellect, organizational skills, practical good sense and keen wit were much in demand. She served on the Board and Executive Committee of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies and was a Board Member of Jobs for Youth, The New York Urban League, and the Women's Economic Roundtable. She also served as Vice President of the National Association of Women Business Owners (Philadelphia Chapter) and on the NYC Mayor's Task Force on Awards and Recognition. Her wide range of contacts and her keen interest in art made her an ideal founding member of the American Associates of the Royal Academy Trust. In recognition of the value of her time at Wheaton College, Linda remained a loyal alumna until the time of her death serving as a Vice President of the Alumnae Association, as well as participating on a variety of its committees. For over 20 years, her Alumnae Board participation lead to annual reunions of many with whom she had served, the last one taking place in Woodstock, VT in September of this year. Commitment to volunteerism and to serving others was a cornerstone ofher life. She practiced as a psychotherapist/counselor for private clients, often on a pro-bono basis for those who did not have the means to pay. Training for this role, she had graduated from The New York Open Center Integrative Therapies Program in 1991 and The Center for Intentional Living Program in 1992. Linda also had an active life in business. Following a graduation in 1967 from the New York School of Interior Design her career as an Interior Designer started with the firm of Robert E, Helbig, A.S.I.D., successors to Cleveland and Randall, a firm with which her family had dealt for many years. In 1970, she co-founded, with her husband, World-Wide Business Centres, Inc., a pioneer of the serviced office industry locally and internationally. Her design skills were put to use in the expansion of that company's operations to Philadelphia, PA and North Miami Beach, FL. Her interpersonal and diplomatic skills were essential to the successful development and maintenance of the company's European network. At the time of her death, she was serving as corporate secretary and as invaluable counselor to her husband. At Wheaton College she took as much studio art as was then permitted under Ruth Dryden Deshaies. A particular favorite subject was print making. After graduation and until 2001, when she began studying water painting at the 92nd Street Y under Elizabeth Terhune, art had continued to play an important role in her life. Together with her daughter Heather, she participated in the Jane Cooper Bland Mother/Daughter Art Program at MOMA and as a volunteer with the Junior League, she provided an arts and craft program for terminally ill children in New York City hospitals. In 2001, Linda resumed her artistic endeavors at the 92nd Street Y when she began studying water color painting. While a student at the 92nd Street Y, her watercolors were accepted for juried shows at the 92nd Street Y, the East End Arts Council in Riverhead, NY, and at The University Club in NYC. Linda was a member of the Cosmopolitan Club for which she served on the Membership and Members Dinners committees. Linda loved life, people, music, and travel. She was an accomplished photographer and poet. She was also an exceedingly generous patron of a wide variety of projects, causes and institutions, not the least of which was The American Scottish Foundation Inc. on the Board of which she served for a number of years, and of which her husband was president. The Miller family were MacFarlane's by heritage. For that organization she edited its newsletter, ''Calling All Scots'', reviewing books and films. She also maintained a detailed photographic record of the Foundation's activities over the past 15 years. Linda will be sorely missed by the many whose lives she touched. A funeral service will be held at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 2 East 90th Street, New York City, on Tuesday, December 5, 2006, at 5:00pm. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to: 92nd Street Y Art Center, Afterschool Scholarship Program, Attention: Samantha Nathan, 212-415-5477, 1395 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10128 USA
      