
        PATENT--Samuel. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Sam ''Pat'' Patent. Our hearts are with Shirley, Bob, Patti, Susan and all their families. We will always cherish the memories. Allan and Mickey Greenblatt
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. ''Pat'' We sadly say goodbye to our dear ''Poppa Pat''. He embraced us as his family and we were proud and honored to return his love. We came to know this wonderful man who put love of family and loyalty to friends above all else. Pat lived his life in the same manner in which he left it...on his own terms. We are left with countless memories of celebrations together and many of his stories to remember, for he was a great raconteur. His presence at our table will be missed. To Shirley, Susan, Bob, Patti, Leslie, Michael, Lauren, Russell and Sydney, Ali and Barry, you know how deep our sympathies lie. Our arms are around you all. He loved you all with every inch of his enormous heart. Joanne, Richie, Jason and Jenny
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of Samuel Patent, a member of the club for 41 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his bereaved wife Shirley, his children Robert, Patricia and Susan and his entire family. Jeffrey I. Citron, President Lawrence Handelsman, Secretary
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. Poppa: You will always be our hero. Your strength, love, support, wisdom and affection have shaped our entire family. You loved to make us laugh and smile and forever will. Each of us was the apple of your eye and you will always be our star sapphire. We will miss you each and every day of our lives. All our love, Leslie, Michael, Ali, Barry, Lauren, Russell and Sydney
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. (Pat). Our dear friend Pat, your spirit will always be with us. Thanks for the memories. Our condolences to Shirley and your wonderful family. Vera and Stanley Miller
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. Age 91. Beloved and cherished husband of Shirley for nearly 65 years. Loving and devoted father of Susan, Robert and Patricia. Adored and adoring Poppa of Lauren and Russell, Alison and Barry, Leslie, Michael and great-granddaughter Sydney Alexandra. We will forever miss his love, his wisdom and his counsel. Services private. The family will be at home in White Plains, Tuesday and Wednesday, from 1-4 pm and 7-9 pm. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY; or The Morse Geriatric Center, West Palm Beach, FL.
        $(6$)PATENT--Samuel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Samuel Patent. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Shirley Patent, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
      