
        PATENT--Samuel R. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, ''Pat'', member of the Einstein Board of Overseers for 20 years. Pat's commitment to Einstein's medical research and education spanned more than three decades. Pat and his wife Shirley were generous supporters of the College and established a laboratory for cardiovascular research. Their son Robert is a past Chairman of our Men's Division and a member of its Executive Committee. Robert's wife Patti is a member of our Women's Division National Board and a former President of its Westchester/Fairfield Chapter. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Patent family, which has played such an important role in the College's development. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman, Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson, Board of Overseers Allen M. Spiegel, M.D., The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. Poppa: You will always be our hero. Your strength, love, support, wisdom and affection have shaped our entire family. You loved to make us laugh and smile and forever will. Each of us was the apple of your eye and you will always be our star sapphire. We will miss you each and every day of our lives. All our love, Leslie, Michael, Ali, Barry, Lauren, Russell and Sydney $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. Age 91. Beloved and cherished husband of Shirley for nearly 65 years. Loving and devoted father of Susan, Robert and Patricia. Adored and adoring Poppa of Lauren and Russell, Alison and Barry, Leslie, Michael and great-granddaughter Sydney Alexandra. We will forever miss his love, his wisdom and his counsel. Services private. The family will be at home in White Plains, Tuesday and Wednesday, from 1-4 pm and 7-9 pm. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY; or The Morse Geriatric Center, West Palm Beach, FL. $(6$)PATENT--Samuel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Samuel Patent. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Shirley, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
      