
        APREA--John J., 53. Died Saturday, November 25, 2006 at St. Clare's Hospital in Denville following a short illness. He was 53. Born in Kingston, NY, on February 1, 1953 he was raised in Margaretville, NY where his family operated a local bed and breakfast. He later traveled across the Midwest living in Iowa, Illinois, and Minnesota. He came to Mountain Lakes, NJ, 12 years ago. Mr Aprea also maintained an ocean front home in Point Pleasant, NJ, where he enjoyed spending time with his family and friends. He was a 1974 graduate of Washington and Lee University in Lexington, VA. Mr Aprea was the Director of Marketing and International Export for Union Carbide's Films Packaging Division. In 1986 he formed 3 corporate entities and became a worldwide leader in the distributing and marketing of plastic materials. In the mid 1980's he and his late brother Robert helped to develop the Brookhaven Health Care Center in East Orange, a skilled nursing facility which brought over 120 high paying jobs to the community. He later developed and built the Rose Garden Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Dover Township in 2005. Mr. Aprea served on the Board of Directors of The Beach Condominiums at Point Pleasant. He was predeceased by his parents Salvatore and Emma Aprea, his brothers, Louis G. and Robert F. Aprea, and a nephew Louis J. Aprea. He is loved and will be missed by the love of his life, his wife of 24 years Linda L. (nee Berg); the second love of his life, his precious daughter Elizabeth of Mountain Lakes; his dear nephew, Stephen J. Aprea of New York, and several cousins. Relatives and friends are invited to call Tuesday November 28, 2-4 and 7-9pm at the S.J. Priola Parsippany Funeral Service, 60 North Beverwyck Road, Lake Hiawatha, NJ, (973-335-4700) A Mass of the Resurrection will be offered Wednesday, November 29, 10:00am at St. Catherine of Siena R.C. Church, Mountain Lakes, NJ. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorial gifts to the American Diabetes Association, P.O. Box 2680, North Canton, OH 44720. For directions or to leave online condolences for the family, please see www.parsippanyfuneral.com
      