
        DEWALT--Sydney, 78, passed away Oct. 23, 2006. She stubbornly battled yet another bout with cancer, but was unable to beat it this time. Sydney was born Aug. 1, 1928, in Long Island, New York, to Sidney and Virginia Maranov. She enjoyed her youth on Long Island, telling us stories about her adventures at Coney Island, Jones Beach, and the beautiful riding country where she rode her horse, Flight. Sydney's horse was designated as as alternate on the U.S. Olympic Riding Team.She was also an accomplished dog breeder and shower, having one dog win ''Best of Breed'' in 1945 at the famous Westminster Kennel Club dog show. She graduated from Cornell University as a doctor of veterinary medicine, and as all who knew her are aware, loved all creatures large and small. Sydney worked in a wartime factory during WWII. Sydney and her husband Frank, now deceased, moved to Phoenix in 1956 with their two young sons, Russ and Craig. Initially, Sydney worked officially as a housewife, and unofficially served as the neighborhood veterinarian in the small suburb north of Phoenix at 32nd St. and Bell Rd. then known as Paradise Valley. Sydney was involved with many activities in the neighborhood, including being a Cub Scout den mother, and participating in 4-H, YMCA and Civic Association activities. Sydney and Frank continued growing their family in Arizona, having 2 more sons, Reid and Brook, and finally a daughter, Jessica. Sydney was always a bit quirky yet authoritative, and was devoted to and demanding of her children, teaching us all to be responsible and independent thinkers. With her small body and strong voice, Sydney will be remembered as ''Mom'' by many other young individuals whom she tutored, nurtured, and otherwise supported and guided over the years. Sydney was a grandmother of five and great grandmother to one. In later years, Sydney retired from more than 20 years of service at Motorola, where she routinely worked the night shift. Realizing that retirement was not for her, she soon ''un-retired'' to work as a cashier at Rawhide; as a school crossing guard and tutor in the Paradise Valley school district; and most recently as a cashier for Harkins Theatres on Bell Road. She made many friends during these times and will certainly be remembered by all as an unforgettable, strong and opinionated woman, with a real sense of humor. She was adored and will be sorely missed by her children, grandchildren, great-grandchild, relatives, friends and yes, even the pets. An informal memorial service to share memories and photos will be held at 11 a.m., Saturday, Nov. 11, 2006, at Harkins North Valley 16 Theatres, located at 3420 E. Bell Rd. Phoenix, AZ 85032. Cards and letters may be sent to the family at 16429 N. 29th Way, Phoenix, AZ 85032. In lieu of flowers, please consider a tax-deductible donation to Heifer International, P.O. Box 8058, Little Rock, AR 72203-8058, or toll - free at 501 - 907 - 2900 (www.heifer.org) with ''In memory of Sydney DeWalt'' noted on the donation.
      