
        McCRYSTAL--Dorothea M. (Dee), 85, died Saturday, October 28th at Memorial Health University Medical Center, Savannah, GA. Dee was born in New York City on December 23rd, 1920. She grew up in Hamden, CT. After high school, she moved to Brooklyn, NY, and completed a BA in English at St. Joseph's College. While living in NYC, she met James T. McCrystal (Jim) whom she later married and with whom she raised four children. Jim, her husband of 46 years, and her son James T. McCrystal Jr. preceded her in death. Dee is survived by her daughter Deirdre Sheerr-Gross (son-inlaw Martin L. Gross ), two sons John W. and Hugh K. (daughter-in-law Rebecca), three grandchildren Rachel, Lauren and James, and one great-grandchild, Theodore. The McCrystal family lived in Shoreham, LI, NY for over 35 years, after which Jim and Dee retired together to Skidaway Island in Savannah. Dee was a great inspiration as a devoted wife, mother and friend. She loved traveling, especially to Europe, where she embraced arts, culture, and diversity. She wrote short stories and essays, played piano, loved all things music, and read a wide variety of literature though she was partial to Jane Austen. She loved the theater from both sides of the stage and was known for both her beautiful voice and for her willingness to sing whenever there was an occasion. Dee was an avid tennis fan and played competitively well into her seventies. Most importantly, Dee was a ''people person''--extroverted, positive and full of energy. Her quick wit will be remembered by all who knew her. She loved a good laugh, a good meal, and would shake the ice for anyone. Dee was particularly grateful for all of her friends in Shoreham and Savannah. She was a wonderful listener and leaves many friends behind. She will be dearly missed. Per her wishes, a small private memorial service will be held in Savannah at a later date. Dee will be interred next to her beloved husband Jim. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to your favorite charity. Fox & Weeks Funeral Directors, Savannah, GA, 912-352-7200
      