
        PATTERSON--Andrew, H., M.D. The entire St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Andrew H. Patterson, M.D. During his 36 years of dedicated and distinguished service to the patients of St. Luke's-Roosevelt, Dr. Patterson held many positions at the hospital including Director of Orthopedic Surgery, member of the Board of Trustees and President of the Medical Board. In addition, he and his beloved wife, Pat, provided philanthropic support to many of the hospital's programs and services. He will be remembered fondly by all who knew him and worked with him. To Pat, their sons Jim, Hugh and Andrew, the entire Patterson family and all of Dr. Patterson's loved ones, we extend our most heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Richard F. Daines, M.D. President and CEO Donna Mendes, M.D. President, Medical Board George L. Unis, M.D. Chairman Department of Orthopedics $(6$)PATTERSON -- Andrew H., M.D. The Board of Directors, Officers, and staff of Medical Liability Mutual Insurance Company (MLMIC), note with profound sorrow the passing of one its founding members, and current President, Dr. Andrew H. Patterson. Dr. Patterson maintained an active and distinguished practice as an orthpaedic surgeon based at Saint Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital from 1963 to 2000, and served as Team Physician for The New York Knicks from 1970 to 1975. In 1975 when malpractice insurance for physicians became commercially unavailable in New York, he actively supported the formation of MLMIC and served on the Company's Board of Directors from its inception. In May of 1989, he was elected President of MLMIC by its Board of Directors. Throughout the years, Dr. Patterson served MILMIC with distinction, both as a vigorous crusader for quality medical care and as an advocate of tort reform. His wise counsel and leadership were invaluable. He will be greatly missed. We wish to extend our most sincere condolences to his family.
      