
        ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas (Mrs. John ''Jock,'' Jr.). We are deeply saddened by the death of Elly Elliott on Sunday, December 3rd. She was the wonderful wife and life partner of our Chairman Emeritus Jock Elliott, who passed away last year. Many New Yorkers know that Elly was active in many social and philanthropic circles. She was a supporter of feminist causes, particularly concerning education for women. She served as the head of Barnard College's Board and helped lead the effort to stave off a take-over by Columbia University, arguing that the-all women's school offered a unique experience that would not exist in a merged institution. What may not be as well known is how effective and beloved she was as a goodwill ambassador for Ogilvy. She supported Jock as our Chairman, but also advised our company, cheered for our company and cared deeply for the people in it. Naturally, she was adored by Ogilvy people all over the world. We will miss her dearly, but remember her always with love and respect. Shelly Lazarus, Chairman and CEO, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor, Thomas. On behalf of the Board and staff of Legal Momentum, we wish to express our deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Eleanor Thomas Elliott. Elly was a vibrant and staunch advocate for women's rights and a valued former member of the Board of Directors of Legal Momentum. We will miss her. Kathy Rodgers President
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor. The loss of Eleanor (Elly) T. Elliott is mourned by the NewYork Weill Cornell Council. Elly received the Councils Leadership Award in 2005 for her many years of dedicated service to NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical College. Her grace, elegance, and great wisdom will be missed. Jeffrey W. Greenberg Chairman, NewYork Weill Cornell Council
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas. A foundation executive and civic leader, whose consuming passion was women's rights, died on Sunday at age 80. A trustee emerita of Barnard College, where she served for over 40 years, she was also an energetic advocate for Cornell Weill Medical College, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, and many other organizations. She received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Duke University. Elly's beloved husband, John (''Jock'') Elliott, Jr., died a year ago. She is survived by ten nieces and nephews. She was an inspiration to all and will be deeply missed. Services: Friday, December 8th, 10:30AM, Saint Thomas Church, 53rd and Fifth Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the above organizations.
      