
        MORLAN--Donald W., Reverend on November 23, 2006 of complications from Leukemia. Son of the late Lona Elliott and Clarence E. Morlan. Born in Odessa, TX, May 28, 1940. Don graduated in 1958 from Carter Riverside High School in Fort Worth and from Ottawa University, Ottawa, KS in 1962. He received a Masters of Divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in NYC in 1965. Don was married to the former Gail Johnson (Hovey) for 17 years. Their son Alex was born in 1973. In late 1979 Don met Timothy P. Martin and they became beloved partners in life. In 1965 Don volunteered with the Voter Registration Project in Hattiesburg, MS. The years 19661967 he served as a Frontier Intern with the United Presbyterian Church in the Republic of South Africa as Chaplain at Lemana Training Institute. From 1968-1975 he was co-pastor of Chambers Memorial Baptist Church in East Harlem. While at Chambers Don became interested in developmental and management of low - income housing and was involved with Triangle Housing in East Harlem. In 1975 he moved to Brooklyn to become pastor of Greenwood Baptist Church and in 1978 he joined the staff of American Baptist Churches of Metropolitan New York where he served as Senior Associate Executive Minister. While at ABC Metro one of his responsibilities was providing technical assistance on low and moderate income housing development. In 1983 Don was a member of the Founding Board of Directors of the AIDS Resource Center, which in turn built Bailey-Holy House and later in 1993 was a driving force in the creation, founding and operation of Flemister House. Both houses are residences for homeless persons living with AIDS. In 1999 he moved to the Association for Neighborhood Housing and Development as Director of its Training and Technical Assistance Program and remained there until his retirement in 2003. Don served on the boards of numerous organizations including the Religious Coalition For Abortion Rights, Settlement Housing Fund and as president of the co-op board of his residence. He was an active member of Judson Memorial Church and served on various committees, including the Ordination Committee and more recently as co-chair of their Capital Campaign. Don took great pleasure in the sights and sounds of the city. He loved all kinds of music, especially opera, and was as accomplished classical flutist. He is survived by his partner of 27 years Tim Martin of Brooklyn, his son and daughter-in-law Alex and Sandra of Brooklyn, his brother and sister-in-law Gordon and Judy of Gross Pointe, MI, his cousins and their partners Susan and Scotty Scott of Las Cruces, NM and Sarah and Gene Heaslet of Bosque Farms, NM, nephews and their partners Christopher and Betsie of League City, TX and Andrew and Meggan of Gross Pointe, MI, as well his second cousin and her partner Holly Healset and Nick Soutter of Chelsea, MI. He was a good man, well loved and well liked. Interment was at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn. A memorial service is planned for April 15, 2007 at 2 pm at Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, NYC, NY 10012. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made to the Judson Memorial Church Endowment Fund.
      