
        ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Robert Rosenblum, distinguished curator, eminent scholar, beloved professor, and friend to so many. Since 1996, Robert was the Stephen and Nan Swid Curator of TwentiethCentury Art at the Guggenheim. His interests ranged from mid-eighteenth century art to the present, as reflected not only in many books and articles, but in the many Guggenheim exhibitions he worked on, including Vilhelm Hammershoi, Danish Painter of Solitude and Light; James Rosenquist, The Swimmer in the Econo-Mist; 1900: Art at the Crossroads; Picasso, the War Years, 1937-45; Jeff Koons, Easy Fun-Ethereal; The Pursuit of Pleasure; Art of Tomorrow: Hilla Rebay and Solomon R. Guggenheim; Russia!; and Citizens and Kings: Portraiture in the Age of Goya and David, currently on view at the Grand Palais in Paris. Robert was a towering intellect with an irrepressible sense of humor, wit and irony. He brought strength, insight, and wisdom and an outsized measure of pure delight to the Guggenheim for more than a decade. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Jane Kaplowitz and their children Theo and Sophie. Robert will be deeply missed. William Mack, Chairman, Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation Thomas Krens, Director,Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation Lisa Dennison, Director, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
        $(6$)ROSENBLUM--Robert. NYU's Institute of Fine Arts and Department of Art History mourn the loss of Robert Rosenblum, our Henry Ittleson, Jr. Professor. We remember Bob as a brilliant art historian, generous teacher, witty colleague, dear friend. His boundless curiosity inspired us all. We shall miss his cosmopolitan presence and sparkling conversation. Our hearts go out to his beloved Jane, Sophie, and Theo. Kenneth E. Silver, Chairman, Dept. of Art History--NYU Mariet Westermann, Steinhardt Director, Institute of Fine Arts--NYU
        $(6$)ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Faculty of Arts and Science at New York University deeply mourns the loss of our dear friend and esteemed colleague Robert Rosenblum. His brilliant accomplishments in the study of modern and contemporary art history immeasurably enhanced the intellectual life of the Department of Fine Arts, the Institute of Fine Arts and the entire University. His kindness and generosity to fellow faculty and students created a deeply gratifying legacy of his long life at NYU. We send deepest sympathy to his wife Jane and their children Sophie and Theo. Richard Foley, Dean of the Faculty. Matthew Santirocco, Dean, College of Arts & Science. Catharine Stimpson, Dean, Graduate School of Arts & Science. Edward J. Sullivan, Dean for Humanities.
      