
        LEVY--Julius, died peacefully in his sleep at the age of 93. Jules, as he was called by most, had a wonderful life. He found love with the beautiful Jane Frederick and they spent more than 50 years together until her death in 2002. They enjoyed summer vacations in Mingo Springs, Maine and later traveled throughout the world learning about the cultures and histories of the places they visited, always making new friends wherever they went. Jules also found fulfillment in his passion for the law. His working class Brooklyn dream of being a mid-west country lawyer was interrupted by his mothers death. He returned home, transferring from the University of Missouri to Columbia University (obtaining scholarships at both). Upon graduation in 1936, he faced quotas, anti-Semitism and hard economic times. With the help of the renowned legal scholar Milton Handler, he found a job as an associate of Abe Pomerantz, a progressive-minded, Brooklyn-born trial lawyer. Jules and Abe were partners and friends until Abe's death in 1982. Together with Bill Haudek, Abe and Jules pioneered stockholder derivative, class action lawsuits and developed a renowned law practice at Pomerantz, Levy, Haudek & Block. Jules argued before the U.S. Supreme Court twice and treasured a note of apology from Justice Frankfurter. In addition to his law practice, Jules was proud of his 50 years of work on the Board of the University Settlement House on the Lower East Side. The Settlement honored him with its Distinguished Service Award in 1990. For recreation, Jules' lean, tall figure was often seen on tennis courts from mid - town Manhattan to Bronxville out to Great Neck and up to Maine. He also grew to take great pleasure in fine wine, good cheese, art and classical music. Jules will be remembered for his warmth, intellectual curiosity and reasoned approach to problems big and small, personal and political. His counsel was valued by clients, colleagues and friends. Till the end, Jules was well-cared for by Gracie, Sylvester, Romeo, the Visiting Nurse Service, Senior Bridge and Dr. Gary Horbar. The family thanks them all. Jules is survived by his four grandchildren, Jennifer, Andres, Jonathan and Nathaniel, who he loved dearly; his two daughters-in-law, Kathy Gruber and Margo Heller-Levy, who doted on him; and his two sons, Doug of Needham, Massachusetts and Fred of New York City who were with him to the end. Donations in memory of Jules can be given to either the University Settlement House Endowment Campaign, 184 Eldridge Street, NYC 10003 or the South Brooklyn Legal Services Cardozo Internship Fund, c/o John Gray, SBLS, 105 Court Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201. The family will be receiving visitors Saturday, December 9, 4-7 p.m. and Sunday, December 10, 1-3 p.m. at 320 West 87th Street, Apartment 3W.
      