
        WEINBERG--Edward. The Westchester Jewish Center deeply mourns the death of our Honorary Trustee, past President and past Chairman of our Foundation Trustees, Edward Weinberg, and extends our sympathy to his entire family. He set a standard of leadership that we strive to follow. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Sarene Shanus, President Jeffrey Segelman, Rabbi
        $(6$)WEINBERG--Edward H., of Mamaroneck, died December 6, 2006, at age 86. Born November 6, 1920 to Harold and Anna (nee Masliansky) Weinberg, he served in the U.S. Army Air Force in the European Theater during WWII and was a Captain and Intelligence Officer with the 56th Fighter Squadron. He was a graduate of Columbia University Class of 1942. Edward was the Chairman of the Board for the American Tack and Hardware Company in Monsey, NY, a company he ran with his brother, James for 50 years and his son Joel for 16 years. He served as President of The Westchester Jewish Center in Mamaroneck and was also Vice President of H.I.A.S. He was previously married to the late Miriam (nee Schwartz), who passed away in 1972. Edward is survived by his wife, Adele (nee Lipkin), and children, Joel Weinberg (wife Barbara Schloss), Clifford Trolin (wife Diane), Deborah Weinberg (husband Lou Ring), Elisa Owen (husband Guy), and Martha Trolin (Partner Loretta Atkins). Also survived by grandchildren, Sarah, Ben, Meredith, Michael, Evan and Lee and siblings, James Weinberg (Bunny) and Marshall Weinberg. Funeral Service will be held Friday 11am at Westchester Jewish Center, Palmer and Rockland Aves, Mama roneck followed by interment at Riversville Cemetery. Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck is conducting the arrangements. 914 - 381 - 1809. Memorial Donations can be sent to H.I.A.S. Park Ave. South, NY, NY or to a charity of your choice.
        $(6$)WEINBERG--Edward. WJCS mourns the loss of Ed, husband of our honorary, longtime Board member, Adele. Together they enriched the Jewish community in Westchester and NY. Sincerest sympathies to Adele, Jim and the entire family. Alan Trager, CEO Robert Stavis, President
        $(6$)WEINBERG--Nathan. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of American Friends of Magen David Adom-ARMDI mourn the passing of Nathan Weinberg. A self-made man who remained true to his roots and spent a lifetime improving the lives of others, Nathan served as a trustee of the Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation which has generously helped MDA save lives in Israel. We extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Weinberg family. May his memory be for a blessing. Mark D. Lebow, President Stuart A. Jackson, Chairman Daniel R. Allen, Executive VP
        $(6$)WEINBERG--Edward. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edward Weinberg, beloved husband of Adele, and brother of Jim, a past president of New York UJA. The Weinbergs set a shining example of philanthropic leadership and their commitment to the Jewish people is felt throughout the world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Adele; to their children, Deborah, Joel, Clifford, Martha, and Elisa; to Edward's brothers, Marshall and Jim, and sister-in-law Bunny, & to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      