
        BERKELEY--Teri. You were an elegant lady with a wonderful sense of style and taste. A true professional in every aspect of real estate. A cherished and valued friend, I will miss your toughness, your gentle heart and your wonderful smile. Lisa Macchi, Millennium Homes $(6$)BERKELEY--Teri Diane. A long time resident of South Orange, NJ died December 28th, she was 60. She was the wife of 38 years to Leonard H. Berkeley, a partner with the law firm of Weiner Lesniak, LLP of Parsippany; mother of two sons, Jason of New York City and Lorne and wife Kelle of Hollywood, FL; grandmother of Luke and Gabrielle; daughter of Dove and Herman Halpern of HoHo-Kus; sister of Michael Halpern and his wife Joanne of New York City; and devoted aunt of Steven Walder, Jeffrey Walder, Scott Halpern, Linda Walder Fiddle and Cara Halpern. Throughout her dynamic life she had been an accomplished model, teacher and real estate professional, in addition to a loving wife, daughter, mother and grandmother. In 1948, she appeared as the very first Ivory Snow Baby in an advertisement that ran in McCall's magazine. During the successful modeling career that followed, she appeared in print ads in Time and Newsweek and television commercials for General Motors and Cadillac, as well as the first commercial for Caesars Palace in Atlantic City. Mrs. Berkeley was born in Brooklyn, NY, on December 27, 1946. The family moved to Teaneck when she was 13. She graduated from Teaneck High School in 1964. She earned a bachelor's degree in Speech and Theater Arts from Monmouth University and a master's degree in Education from Montclair State University. Mrs. Berkeley taught English at Irvington High School in the late 1960s. After the birth of her first child, she redirected her skills to real estate sales and marketing and discovered her true passion. She began her career at what is now Coldwell Banker Schlott Real Estate in Short Hills before joining BNE Associates of Livingston 20 years ago as a sales professional. She was promoted to the company's marketing department when it became Millennium Homes. She most recently served as the Assistant Director of Sales and Marketing for Millennium Homes, which she considered her second home and thought of her coworkers as her second family. A tireless volunteer, Mrs. Berkeley served on the board of directors of the American Cancer Society and the board of America On Ice, which produced ice shows to benefit Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center. Through her life, she traveled the world. Four months ago she and her husband traveled to Alaska where they went dog sledding on a glacier. During her vibrant life, she also bravely fought a 35-year battle with cancer and related illnesses. Funeral services will be held at Temple B'nai Jeshurun at 1025 South Orange Avenue, Short Hills, NJ on Sunday, December 31st at 10:45am. For additional information please call Bernheim-Apter-Kreitzman at (973) 422-0600.
      