
        GREENE--Leonard Michael. November 30, 2006, age 88, of Mamaroneck, NY, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. A 1991 inductee into the National Inventors Hall of Fame, Greene patented hundreds of inventions, many integral to modern aviation, including the stall prevention devices that are now essential safety equipment on all aircraft and have saved many thousands of lives. In 1946, he founded the Safe Flight Instrument Corporation in White Plains, NY, one of a very few early aviation companies still owned by its founding family. An aerodynamicist and expert pilot, Greene was a life member of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots and held many aviation records and awards. In 1981, he co-founded the Corporate Angel Network, a nonprofit that arranges free transportation to treatment for cancer patients by using the empty seats on corporate flights. To date, the organization has flown nearly 25,000 cancer patients to treatment centers throughout the U.S. An avid sailor, Greene advised several America's Cup syndicates and then bought the two-time winner Courageous to compete again in 1986. Sailing under the aegis of the Yale Corinthian Yacht Club, the only undergraduate sailing club ever to participate, the Courageous Syndicates 1986 run at the Cup spearheaded Greene's campaign to restore the Corinthian ideals of amateur sportsmanship to the competition, and more broadly, to team sports in general. Following the 1997 donation of Courageous to the Museum of Yachting in Newport, RI, the famed 12-meter was named Rhode Island's State Yacht. Leonard Greene experienced poverty as a youth during the Depression, and never forgot it. As a successful businessman, he implemented innovative employment policies, barring mandatory retirement age, actively recruiting the differently abled, and providing profit sharing at his own manufacturing facility. Seeking a broader forum and greater impact for his ideas, in 1974 he founded the Institute for SocioEconomic Studies, a nonpartisan think tank dedicated to enhancing economic and social opportunity and improving quality of life. The Institute provides a national forum for innovative insights and solutions to problems of economic development, social motivation, poverty, and urban regeneration and conducts research in these areas. Through the Institute, Greene advocated a revolutionary change in tax policy that would extend economic opportunity and incentives by transforming existing social welfare spending into a generous national tax rebate. In pursuit of these interests, he was a was a member of both the Special Committee on Welfare & Income Maintenance and the Council on Trends & Perspectives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as well as the Income Maintenance Committee of the Community Service Society and the Work Group on Welfare Reform of the Task Force on the New York City Fiscal Crisis. Greene was author of the books Free Enterprise without Poverty (Norton, 1981), The National Tax Rebate: A New America with Less Government (Regnery, 1998), and Inventorship: The Art of Innovation (Wiley, 2001). He was president of the Institute and active in its mission to the end. Greene graduated in 1938 from the City College of New York with a B.S. in Chemistry, and went on to receive the M.S. degree in Engineering, also from CCNY, before doing postgraduate work at the Guggenheim School of Aeronautics of New York University. He was awarded the degree of Doctor of Civil Law honoris causa by Pace University in 1977. Among his many other awards and honors are the Flight Safety Foundations Air Safety Award (1949 and 1981), Award for Meritorious Service (1981), and Allied Signal/Bendix Trophy Award for Aviation Safety (1999); the National Business Aircraft Association's Pilot Safety Award (1961) and Award for Meritorious Service to Aviation (1996); the Private Sector Initiative Commendation of the President of the United States (1982 and 1984); the Foundation for Westchester Community College's Medallion Award for Distinguished Achievement in Business, Science and Humanitarianism; the Special Act Award of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Aviation Week & Space Technology's Laurels Award in the Field of Electronics (1999) and Laureate Award for Lifetime Achievement as a Pioneer in Flight Safety, Performance and Innovation (2001); and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's Contribution to American Innovation Award (2002). He was man of vision who not only imagined and developed new and better products and policies, but also cared deeply enough about the well being of others to dare to try to overturn the status quo and to leave the world a better place. Beyond his gifts for invention and innovation, perhaps his most salient quality was his capacity for enjoyment. He loved his work and his life, and brought to both a child like sense of fun and adventure that gave him a special bond with children, including his own. Born in 1918 in New York City to Max and Lyn (Furman) Greene, Leonard Greene was also proceeded in death by his siblings Helen and Elliot. On September 11, 2001, his son, Donald Freeman Greene, was killed in the terrorist attack on Unitied Flight 93. Leonard Greene is survived by his children Randall Greene of Greenwich, CT; Bonnie Le Var of Briarcliff Manor, NY; Laurie Balwin of Kalispell, MT; Douglas F. Greene of Cortez, CO; Charles F. Greene of Novato, CA; Stephen F. Greene of Ludlow, VT; Terry Greene of Somerville, MA; and many grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. He will be deeply missed by his devoted family and friends, and by his ''family'' at Safe Flight, CAN, and the Institute. A memorial service will be held on Monday, December 4, at 2pm at the ECS of Westchester, 7 Saxon WR, White Plains, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Corporate Angel Network, Inc., Westchester County Airport, One Loop Road, White Plains, NY 10604. $(6$)GREENE--Leonard Michael. The Institute for SocioEconomic Studies, its Board and its staff are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved founder and president. His energy, vision, humanitarian focus, and above all, his curiosity and enthusiasm will be greatly missed. A dynamic leader and a radically innovative thinker, Leonard Greene was an inspiration to us all.
      