
        KOLB--John N. II, August 2, 1941 - December 20, 2006. Proud and devoted father died suddenly at the age of 65. Born in Philadelphia, PA and raised in Bethlehem, PA, John was a graduate of Moravian Academy (Bethlehem) and earned a BA and an ABA from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce (with Honors), respectively, at the University of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia). John enjoyed a long and productive career in fundraising, demonstrating unsurpassed passion and dedication to the institutions and clients he served. His lifelong love was the advancement and support of education, and appointments included Vice President for Development at Moore College of Art, Associate Development Officer at the University of Pennsylvania and Director of Development at the University of Vermont. During the last 25 years of his life, John provided expert and personalized fundraising counsel; first, as a founder and Principal of Snelling & Kolb, Inc., and finally, as founder and Managing Partner of SERAPIS. He developed professional and deeply personal relationships with educational institutions, their staff, trustees, and volunteers that spanned decades. Some of John's most cherished and long - standing clients included The Latin School of Chicago (IL), Mercersburg Academy (PA), The Shipley School (PA), The Spence School (NY) and Trinity School (NY). John is survived by his two daughters, Elizabeth Kolb Ottley (Luis) of Shoreline, WA and Stephanie M. Kolb, Esq., of Rahway, NJ; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob S. Kolb, Esq., of Bethlehem; a sister, Jane Kolb Florenz (Paul) of Bethlehem, and two brothers, Matthew J. Kolb (Deborah) of Bronxville, NY and Mark W. Kolb (Mimi) of Reading, PA. A memorial service will be held at Central Moravian Church, 73 W Church St., Bethlehem, PA on January 13, 2007, at 1:00 PM. In lieu of flowers, please direct contributions to the American Heart Association or the educational institution of your choice. $(6$)KRIEGER--Eleanor. Passed away at the age of 89 in Lake Worth, Florida on December 28th, 2006. She is survived by Basil, her loving husband of 64 years, her daughter Karen and her husband George Myers, her son Robert and his wife Randi, her grandchildren Robyn and Lyle, and her great-grandchildren Cody and Cory. Before moving to Florida, she was a long term resident of Woodmere, NY where she was active in community affairs. She will be forever missed.
      