
        ELLIOTT--Eleanor ''Elly'' T. We are deeply saddened by the tragic death of our dear friend, Eleanor ''Elly'' Elliott, Life Trustee of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Life Overseer of Weill Cornell Medical College. An enthusiastic and dedicated supporter of our Medical Center for more than three decades, Mrs. Elliott was a pioneering advocate for health and education for women, co-founding the Women's Health Symposium at New York-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center in 1982. An indefatigable fund-raiser, she cochaired the $300 million capital campaign for the Medical Center, from 1982 to 1987, reportedly then the largest of its kind. She also chaired the Human Resources Committee and served on the Executive Committee and Nominating Committee on the Hospital's Board. Twice honored by the United Hospital Fund, she was a staunch proponent of high-quality psychiatric care, serving as a liaison to the Weill Cornell Department of Psychiatry beginning in 1991, and named an Honorary Member in 1993. She was also a very active supporter of her alma mater, Barnard College, serving on its Board of Trustees since 1959. In close partnership with her beloved husband, John Jock Elliott, who died in 2005, Elly Elliott brought qualities of leadership, perseverance and unstinting loyalty to everything that she did--and for all that she accomplished on behalf of the Hospital and Medical College. A truly special woman with extraordinary kindness, grace and elegance, she will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family. John J. Mack, Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Herbert Pardes, President & CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital Sanford I. Weill, Chairman, Board of Overseers Dr. Antonio M. Gotto Jr., Dean Weill Cornell Medical College
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas, a great inspiration and loving friend to so many, in all corners of the globe. Our love goes out to her family and to Jock's. Joel, Tobe, Gordon Barad
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor. The Trustees and staff of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation are profoundly saddened by the death of their beloved Trustee colleague, Eleanor Thomas Elliott, Chair Emerita of the Board and Co-Chair of the National Advisory Committee. For almost a quarter-century, Mrs. Elliott provided outstanding leadership, generous support, and wise guidance for the Foundation's work in education and the liberal arts. A Woodrow Wilson Trustee since 1983, she chaired the Board from 1993 to 1999, co-chaired it's National Advisory Committee since 2000, and remained one of the Foundation's most active and committed Trustees. Elly brought energy, clarity, generosity, grace, and wisdom to all of her commitments. The Foundation's Trustees, staff, and friends extend heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies to her family. Nancy Weiss Malkiel, Chair and the Members of the Board of Trustees Arthur Levine, President The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation Princeton, NJ
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor. The Women's Forum records with deep sorrow the untimely death of longtime member and colleague, Eleanor Thomas Elliott. A woman of rare graciousness, Elly was an inspiration to generations of women and will be missed by all who loved and admired her. Deepest sympathy is extended to her family and friends. Westina Matthews Shatteen President, Women's Forum
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas, a foundation executive and civic leader, whose consuming passion was women's rights, died on Sunday at age 80. A trustee emertia of Barnard College, where she served for over 40 years, she was also an energetic advocate for Cornell Weill Medical College, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, and many other organizations. She received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Duke University. Elly's beloved husband, John (''Jock'') Elliott, Jr., died a year ago. She is survived by her brother in law, Osborn Elliott, and ten nieces and nephews. She was an inspiration to all and will be deeply missed. Services: Friday, December 8th, 10:30AM, Saint Thomas Church, 53rd and Fifth Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the above organizations.
      