
        CALLAGY--Robert M. The Board of Directors, executives and staff of William H. Sadlier, Inc. and the entire Sadlier community mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a wise, esteemed and trusted legal counselor and director for over 18 years, as well as a talented and tireless contributor to the Church and his community. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Lynn and the Callagy, McCloskey, Finn and Burke families, and to his colleagues and countless friends. Frank Sadlier Dinger, Chairman William Sadlier Dinger, President $(6$)CALLAGY--Robert M., died on December 1, 2006 following a difficult fight against urachal cancer. He was the beloved husband of Lynn (nee Rhatigan), and a wonderful father to Susan and Pat McCloskey, of Bronxville, NY, Sara and Nick Finn, of Rye, NY and Rory and Andrea Callagy, of New York City. He is also survived by his eight loving grandchildren, nieces and nephews, his sister Regina Burke, his brother John M. Callagy, and his mother-inlaw Gertrude Rhatigan of Greenwich, CT. After graduating from NYU Law School in 1963, service in the United States Army and briefly working at another New York City law firm, Bob joined the Manhattan law firm then known as Satterlee Warfield & Stephens and embarked upon a remarkable 39 -year career at the firm. Bob guided the firm through its merger with Burke & Burke in 1987 to form the current firm Satterlee Stephens Burke & Burke LLP. The partners he led for over three decades as firm Chairman treasured Bob for his wisdom, quicksilver wit, and deeply caring fellowship. He was also an inspiring mentor to generations of younger lawyers, sharing not only his trial skills but, more importantly, his principles of dedicated service to both clients and community. An eminent figure in U.S. civil trial law, Bob counseled, and litigated on behalf of, a remarkable variety of individual, corporate, and non-profit clients. But it was his passionate representation of the country's leading publishers and advertising agencies that put him at the center of landmark cases involving the First Amendment and copyright law such as J.D. Salinger v. Random House, Bette Midler v. Ford Motor Company, Wright v. Warner Books, Geiger v. Dell Publishing, Meeropol v. Nizer, and Jefferson County v. Moody's Investors Service. Bob served as CoChair of the American Bar Association's First Amendment and Media Litigation Committee, was a frequent lecturer on advertising law and intellectual property issues, and authored numerous articles published by the ABA Litigation Journal, Communications Lawyer, and other legal publications. He also dedicated his time and skills to numerous civic and benevolent organizations, including serving as the Chairman of the Board of the College of Mount Saint Vincent, Vice Chairman of the Board of Manhattan College, Chairman of the Rye Free Reading Room and a board member of the Lauinger Library at his beloved alma mater, Georgetown University. Reposing at Graham Funeral Home, Rye, NY, Sunday December 3rd from 3:00-7:00pm. A mass celebrating Bob's life will be held on Monday, December 4th at 10:00am at the Church of the Resurrection, Rye, NY. $(6$)CALLAGY--Robert M. The Board of Directors, executives and staff of William H. Sadlier, Inc. and the entire Sadlier community mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a wise, esteemed and trusted legal counselor and director for over 18 years, as well as a talented and tireless contributor to the Church and his community. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Lynn and the Callagy, McCloskey, Finn and Burke families, and to his colleagues and countless friends. Frank Sadlier Dinger, Chairman William Sadlier Dinger, President $(6$)CALLAGY--Robert M. The directors and staff of the Georgetown University Library mourn the death of our beloved friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a longtime member of the Georgetown University community and a great benefactor of the Library. He served on the Library Board for many years and inspired us with his wisdom, his legal expertise, and his passion for rare books and special collections. Bob gave of his time, talent and treasure to Georgetown. The Library has lost a dear friend and colleague and we will miss him tremendously. Artemis Kirk, University Librarian Tony Kerbs, Chairman $(6$)CALLAGY--Robert M. The Manhattanville College Community mourns the loss of its dedicated and beloved Trustee, Robert M. Callagy, who died December 1, 2006. Bob served on the Manhattanville College Board of Trustees since 2001 and currently served as a Vice Chair. A partner in the firm Satterlee Stephens Burke & Burke LLP, he had an extraordinary legal career, handling more than one hundred jury and nonjury trials and argued dozens of appeals throughout the country. His sharp mind and warm heart benefited Manhattanville greatly. We are deeply saddened and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Lynn, their three children, Susan Callagy McCloskey, Sara Callagy Finn and Robert Callagy, Jr., his grandchildren and his niece, Catherine S. Callagy, our Vice President of Institutional Advancement. Scott Pierce Chairman of the Board Richard A. Berman President Manhattanville College Purchase, NY
      