
        WEINBERG--Edward H., of Mamaroneck, died December 6, 2006, at age 86. Born November 6, 1920 to Harold and Anna (nee Masliansky) Weinberg, he served in the U.S. Army Air Force in the European Theater during WWII and was a Captain and Intelligence Officer with the 56th Fighter Squadron. He was a graduate of Columbia University Class of 1942. Edward was the Chairman of the Board for the American Tack and Hardware Company in Monsey, NY, a company he ran with his brother, James for 50 years and his son Joel for 16 years. He served as President of The Westchester Jewish Center in Mamaroneck and was also Vice President of H.I.A.S. He was previously married to the late Miriam (nee Schwartz), who passed away in 1972. Edward is survived by his wife, Adele (nee Lipkin), and children, Joel Weinberg (wife Barbara Schloss), Clifford Trolin (wife Diane), Deborah Weinberg (husband Lou Ring), Elisa Owen (husband Guy), and Martha Trolin (Partner Loretta Atkins). Also survived by grandchildren, Sarah, Ben, Meredith, Michael, Evan and Lee and siblings, James Weinberg (Bunny) and Marshall Weinberg. Funeral Service will be held Friday 11am at Westchester Jewish Center, Palmer and Rockland Ave.'s Mamaroneck followed by interment at Riversville Cemetery. Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck is conducting the arrangements. 914 - 381 - 1809. Memorial Donations can be sent to H.I.A.S. Park Ave. South, NY, NY or to a charity of your choice.
        $(6$)WEINBERG--Edward. It is with profound sorrow that we note the passing of Edward Weinberg, elder brother, revered business partner, and beloved friend of James L. Weinberg, Chairman Emeritus of The Jewish Museum. Together with his wife Adele, Ed was a longtime supporter of the museum, its collections, and programs. Together with Jim, Ed skillfully guided AmerTac, their family firm, until his retirement. We send our deepest sympathies to Adele, to their children, to Ed's brother Marshall Weinberg, and to all members of their families. Leni May, Chairman Barry Alperin, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
      