
        ELLIOTT--Eleanor ''Elly'' T. The members of the Women's Health Symposium Executive Steering Committee at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center mourn the passing of Eleanor Elliott, co-founder of the Women's Health Symposium. Elly was a committed advocate for women's health education and was instrumental in organizing one of the first educational programs that offered women the opportunity to increase their knowledge about health and health related issues. On behalf of the more than 7500 women who, over that last 25 years, have benefited from the cutting-edge medical information they received at the Women's Health Symposium, the committee expresses its gratitude to Eleanor Elliott. We extend our deepest condolences to her nieces, nephews, and other members of her family. Myra Mahon and Joan Weill Co-Chairwomen Women's Health Symposium Executive Steering Committee New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor T. The entire Barnard College community is profoundly saddened by the death of our esteemed Trustee Emerita Eleanor T. Elliott. Enthusiastically involved in Barnard activities until her accident on Friday, Elly was elected Trustee in 1959, Chair of the Barnard Board of Trustees from 197376 and Trustee Emerita since 1978. In the 70s, Elly led the effort to keep Barnard an independent women's college. In 1992, she was honored by the naming of Eleanor Thomas Elliott Hall. Elegant, intelligent, and passionately devoted to equality for all women, she epitomized the college she served so well. Sincere condolences are offered to her nieces and extended family. Anna Quindlen, Chair of the Board Judith Shapiro, President
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas. The Foundation for Child Development (FCD) Board of Directors and staff have lost a faithful steward of its mission to promote the healthy development of all children. For almost 40 years, Eleanor Elliott was part of the FCD family, first as a Board member in 1970, and then as chair of the FCD Board from 19701977. From 1996-2005, she chaired the Foundation's Council, which played a pivotal role as a venue for shaping the programs of the Foundation today. The Annual Symposia, which she chaired, led to FCD's grants to support universal Prekindergarten, the Child Well-Being Index, our Young Scholars Program focused on the development of young children living in immigrant families, and our PK-3 initiative to connect the worlds of early education and K-12 education. She was responsible for developing our communications and dissemination capacity at the Foundation, so that FCD could be more effective in our role in social change for children. In 2004, FCD honored her commitment to the Foundation with the Eleanor Thomas Elliott Internships at Barnard College. We have lost a rare individual who combined empathy, elegance, passionate engagement, and the highest standards of accomplishment. She mentored so many individuals by sharing her experiences and insights, always conveyed with candor and warmth. P. Lindsay Chase-Lansdale, Chair Ruby Takanishi, President Members of the Board of Directors The Foundation for Child Development
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor. The trustees, staff and volunteers of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation (EBC), licensee of Thirteen/WNET New York and WLIW21, mourn the passing of Eleanor ''Elly'' Elliott, a dear friend and generous member of our Patron committee for many years. Elly and her late husband, John (Jock) Elliott, Jr. cared deeply about culture, education and enlightenment. Through their leadership at Thirteen/WNET, they helped promote the strength and vitality of public broadcasting in our community. We extend our sympathies to her family, and share in their grief at the loss of a great humanitarian and a wonderful woman. James S. Tisch, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas. The Board of Directors and staff of Citizens for NYC are saddened by the death of Eleanor Thomas Elliott, dear sister-in-law of our beloved founder Osborn Elliott. Our hearts go out to Oz and Inger and Mrs. Elliott's family and friends. Henry Cornell, Chairman of the Board, Citizens for NYC Peter H. Kostmayer, President
        $(6$)ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas. A foundation executive and civic leader, whose consuming passion was women's rights, died on Sunday at age 80. A trustee emerita of Barnard College, where she served for over 40 years, she was also an energetic advocate for Cornell Weill Medical College, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, and many other organizations. She received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Duke University. Elly's beloved husband, John (''Jock'') Elliott, Jr., died a year ago. She is survived by ten nieces and nephews. She was an inspiration to all and will be deeply missed. Services: Friday, December 8th, 10:30AM, Saint Thomas Church, 53rd and Fifth Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the above organizations.
      