
        RUBIN--Leonard. The Board of Directors of the Franklin Managed Trust and the Franklin Value Investors Trust wish to mark the passing of our beloved and long-time fellow director, Leonard Rubin, and to extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife, Syril, his children, grandchildren and great-grandchild. His sage advice and calm demeanor helped shape our deliberations over the years. We will miss his intellect, his kindness, his wisdom and most of all, his friendship. Frank T. Crohn Burton J. Greenwald William J. Lippman Charles Rubens II Robert E. Wade
        $(6$)RUBIN--Leonard. The Officers, Trustees and staff of UJA Federation of Northern New Jersey mourn the passing of Leonard Rubin, whose visionary leadership and philanthropy helped to found and build our Jewish community's leading institutions, including the JCC on the Palisades, the Jewish Home at Rockleigh, and the UJA Federation. Lenny was an exemplary President of the United Jewish Fund of Englewood, and he played an instrumental role in helping form the UJA Federation as it is today. Everyone who had the privilege of knowing Lenny will miss his leadership, activism and wise counsel. We are comforted in knowing that we live in a thriving Jewish community because of him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Syril, his three children, Daniel, Robert and Leslie, and the entire Rubin family. Dan Silna, President. Howard E. Charish, Executive Vice President.
        $(6$)RUBIN--Leonard. The Directors and Counsel of Franklin Mutual Theories Fund mourn the loss of our fellow Director and friend Lenny Rubin. A man of principle and a dear friend, Lenny will be dearly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Syril and his family.
        $(6$)RUBIN--Leonard. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Leonard Rubin who, along with his son Danny, served on ADL's NJ Regional Advisory Board. For his dedication and commitment to the Jewish people, the State of Israel and the fight against anti-Semitism, Lenny received ADL's Torch of Liberty Award. We extend our condolences to his wife Syril, Danny, and the entire family. Glen S. Lewy, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Lawrence Cooper, NJ State Chair Etzion Neuer, NJ Regional Director
        $(6$)RUBIN--Leonard. Dear Lenny, with your unwavering generosity and vision, you have built a house and made it a home, for thousands in your community. Your leadership will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Syrile and the entire Rubin family. Amir and Joan Cohen Ilan and Iris Cohen
      