
        BUCHBINDER--Norman, The Governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Norman Buchbinder, co-founder of Buchbinder and Warren and a distinguished REBNY member for over 40 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Mae, daughters Lori and Susan, and the entire Buchbinder family. Stephen M. Ross, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. To the entire Buchbinder, McDaniel and Abramson families, our heartfelt sympathy to all of you. So few people in our lives have the absolute power to change them, simply by their presence. Norman was one of those few. He simply believed in everyone, their abilities and their desires. He did not judge, he gave freely and wanted nothing in return. He took pride in teaching us, and what a wonderful teacher he was. Thank you for sharing him with all of us. The world has lost an angel. Love Debby and Billy
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. My teacher. My beacon. My visionary. My other dad. Thank you, Norman, for all you have done for my family and me. I have grown from your wisdom, which will help me to guide my children. Your spirit for life; your willingness to look beyond the present into the future; Your ability to welcome the thoughts and ideas of youth and meet each day with more energy than the last -It will all live on in me. Thank you. I will miss you and the thought of you everyday. I feel for and extend my deepest, heartfelt condolences to Mae, Lorie, Susan, and their families. Your body may be gone but your spirit and soul will live on. Michael Katz and Family
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman, The Real Estate Department and the entire staff of Bank Leumi USA are deeply saddened by the loss of our long time client, Norman Buchbinder. His business judgment, loyalty and friendship will truly be missed. Our sincerest condolences to his lovely wife Mae, daughters Lori and Susan, their families and to the Buchbinder & Warren family.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. To be included in Norman's circle of family and friends was to be truly loved. His acts of kindness, joy with life, generosity and humor will be sorely missed and long remembered. Deepest sympathies to Mae, Lori and Susan, Ray and Bill. Peter Bergmann and Kay Gardiner
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. The Partners, Associates and staff of Goldberg, Weprin & Ustin LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend, Norman. We will treasure the memories of his visits and miss his astute advice and business acumen. His energy, sense of humor and wit will be a model for each of us. To Mae, Lori, Susan, and their families, we extend our heartfelt condolences and unending friendship.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Every man dies; but not every man has really lived. Norman lived. Norman blazed through life, softly, gently, generously, and with dignity and elegance. The helicopter will never be the same, and the bags home will be lighter. Keep the dice warm Mr. B, the game will continue. Our heartfelt condolences to Mae, Lori, Susan, and their families. Lynn and Andy Albstein
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. To our founder for his wisdom and guidance in leading the Village Alliance Buisness Improvement District for 10 wonderful years. And to his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Board of Directors Village Alliance BID
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Norman was a gentle giant, he was unpretentious, sharing, imaginative, kind, and a loyal, very loyal, friend and business partner for over 40 years. He enjoyed every minute of his life and showed us how to enjoy ours. He was the brightest light of the Four Stars. Lisa and I will sorely miss you Norman. Good-bye tatale. Zohar and Lisa
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman, Susan and I will never forget your kindness to us when Emmanuel was born. Your passing is our loss. Martin
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Norman, my long time business partner and friend, we shared many more highs then lows. I have always treasured our friendship and will miss your optimistic approach to life. ''A life is measured by what you get, a lifetime is measured by what you give.'' Norman was always giving, a loyal, loving and kind friend, we will miss you dearly. To Mae, Lori, Susan and their familes, our heartfelt condolences. May Norman rest in peace. David Yagoda and Family
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas. Larger than life, Norman made a wonderful journey of his own, making us feel that the world was a safe, upbeat place. A man of infinite imagination, kindness, and humor (sometimes quietly zany), he's gone off to join those who went first. It is only mildly grandiose to imagine that his departure has thrown the Earth's orbit off a second or two. With our love to his dear Mae and all their girls and all their boys. From the entire family of the late Jack Weprin.
      