
        BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas, died peacefully in his home in New York City on January 20th. Mae's beloved husband of fifty years, loving and magnificent father of Lori and Susan, dynamic father - in - law of William Abramson and Raymond McDaniel, and amazing grandfather to Jake, David, Jade and Mia. Norman was born on February 27, 1922 in the Lower East Side of Manhattan to Isidore and Fannie and was predeceased by his sister Viola. Norman lived his entire life in New York City, attending DeWitt Clinton High School and New York University. During World War II, he served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Army. He began his professional life in the millinery business with his father, before becoming involved in New York City real estate. With his beloved partner and very dear friend, Gene Warren, he founded Buchbinder & Warren in 1958, and was one of the early proponents of converting rental properties into cooperatives and condominiums as well as having been a visionary founder of the 14th and 8th Street Business Improvement Districts. With another beloved partner of over forty years, Zohar Ben-Dov (tatala), he invested in numerous real estate properties and restaurants, including the Riviera Cafe in Greenwich Village. Norman lived each moment of his life to the fullest, with passion for his family, business, heritage and city. ''Do not stand at my grave and weep, I am not there, I do not sleep. I am a thousand winds that blow, I am the diamonds glint on snow, I am the sunlight on ripening grain, I am the gentle autumns rain. When you awaken in the mornings hush, I am the swift uplifting rush, of quiet birds in circled flight, I am the soft stars that shine at night. Do not stand at my grave and cry, I am not there, I did not die. My joie de vivre is within you.'' Services will be held on Monday, January 22nd, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan. For information please call 212-362-6600.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman It is with profound sadness that we mourn the loss of Norman Buchbinder, beloved co-founder of Buchbinder & Warren. Norman blessed every day of our lives with his wisdom, warmth, generosity and good humor. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, his adored Mae, beloved daughters Lori and Susan and sons-in-law Ray and Bill, and his cherished grandchildren Jake, David, Jade and Mia. It is a privilege to carry on his legacy. Your Buchbinder & Warren Family
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Dearest Norman -my mentor, my friend, my fellow adventurer and enthusiast for all things wild and wonderful. How small and still my world will be without you. ''You have gone but we so cherish your memory that you will abide with us, more present than the living man.'' My deepest condolences and love to Mae, Lori, Susan, Ray, Bill, Jake, David, Jade and Mia. Dont forget your promise, Norman, I'll be waiting. Always my love, your Lulu
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. The Offices, Governors, and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed fellow friar, Norman Buchbinder. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue on January 22 at 11 am. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jeanpierre Trebot, Exec. Director
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. The Partners, Associates and staff of Goldberg, Weprin & Ustin LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend, Norman. We will treasure the memories of his visits and miss his astute advice and business acumen. His energy, sense of humor and wit will be a model for each of us. To Mae, Lori, Susan, and their families, we extend our heartfelt condolences and unending friendship.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman a gentle, sensitive and smart man who always protected the underdog and who always did the right thing. Not only for me, but from countless people in his life who will always consider him a friend. My thoughts are with Mae, Lori and Susan and his grandchildren. I will always miss you, Nina.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman Never a more knowledgeable, responsible real estate man. Never a nicer guy. Cy Wolfson
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. The staff and management of The Riviera Cafe mourns with deep sadness the passing of our leader, Norman Buchbinder, our beloved ''Mr. B''. We will always remember his compassion, understanding, generosity, his love for his restaurant, and his love for its employees. The number of things he did for all of us is infinite, and the memory of his smile and pure joy will remain in our hearts forever. Our sincerest condolences to his wife and family, who will forever be in our thoughts and prayers.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. I am deeply saddened by the loss of my friend and mentor, Norman Buchbinder. I will forever cherish my relationship with this truly wonderful man and feel privileged to have worked for him. He lead by example and his unconditional love touched everyone who was lucky enough to have known him. He was indeed larger than life in every sense of the word. My heart goes out for his family, and I only take solace in knowing that he is now in the only place as large as his heart. Steve Sertell
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. My dear friend, beloved in business and in life, whom Rosalind Warren so adored -you were both cut from the same cloth. The gates of Heaven will welcome one of the most giving and generous persons I have ever known. I know that your beautiful family is as blessed and as honored as I am to have had you in my life. I wish you Godspeed. All my love forever, Gene
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Norman was a gentle giant, he was unpretentious, sharing, imaginative, kind, and a loyal, very loyal, friend and business partner for over 40 years. He enjoyed every minute of his life and showed us how to enjoy ours. He was the brightest light of the Four Stars. Lisa and I will sorely miss you Norman. Good-bye tatale. Zohar and Lisa
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. My guide and my light, a tribute to life and to living, a shining example of how to do it right! Leaving us so many beautiful memories, filled with joy, laughter and love. ''A successful life: Let no one ever come to you without leaving better and happier. Be the living expression of God's kindness.'' I will forever cherish your kindness and your generosity of spirit -you are in our hearts forever. Consigliere
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Every man dies; but not every man has really lived. Norman lived. Norman blazed through life, softly, gently, generously, and with dignity and elegance. The helicopter will never be the same, and the bags home will be lighter. Keep the dice warm Mr. B, the game will continue. Our heartfelt condolences to Mae, Lori, Susan, and their families. Lynn and Andy Albstein
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman. Your generosity and spirit has been inspirational to all. You will be missed. Martin H. Lager
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas. Larger than life, Norman made a wonderful journey of his own, making us feel that the world was a safe, upbeat place. A man of infinite imagination, kindness, and humor (sometimes quietly zany), he's gone off to join those who went first. It is only mildly grandiose to imagine that his departure has thrown the Earth's orbit off a second or two. With our love to his dear Mae and all their girls and all their boys. From the entire family of the late Jack Weprin.
        $(6$)BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas. Being a house of worship, West End Synagog, A Reconstructionist Congregation, saw a subdued Norman. Spirituality kept his Ebullience in check. Would that more West Enders knew him better; there were so many lessons to be learned. Our sympathies go to Mae and their daughters, and their daughters families.
      