
        VLADECK--Judith P. Died in NYC on January 8th. A pioneering advocate for the rights of women, minorities, older workers, and all working people. She was a founding partner of the law firm of Vladeck, Waldman, Elias and Engelhard. A 1947 graduate of Columbia Law School, she was the widow of Stephen C. Vladeck, a distinguished labor lawyer and founder of the firm. She is survived by her daughter and law partner Anne Vladeck, her sons Bruce of NYC, and David of Washington D.C., her daughters-in-law Fredda Vladeck, and Mary Pendergast, and five grandchildren: Elizabeth, Stephen, Abigail, Joseph, and Thomas Vladeck. A memorial service will be scheduled in the near future.
        $(6$)VLADECK--Judith. The members and staff of the Forward Association mourn the passing of our friend and general counsel Judith Vladeck. Noting that every social issue of our times is played out in the workplace, she wrote briefs that established the rights of women working at universities and law firms and defended victims of age and sex discrimination. We extend our condolences to her sons Bruce and David, to her daughter Anne, and to their families. We will miss her raspy voice, her sage counsel and her unassuming dignity. Barnett Zumoff MD, President Samuel Norich, Executive Director
        $(6$)VLADECK--Judith P. The Hunter College community mourns the loss of a dear friend and proud alumna, Judith Vladeck, whose advocacy for the rights of women and all employees in the workplace has improved the quality of life for so many. We offer our heartfelt sympathies to her children and the entire family. Jennifer J. Raab President, Hunter College
        $(6$)VLADECK--Judith. It is with deepest sorrow that we note the passing of Judith Vladeck. New York University benefited greatly from her learnedcounsel and commitment to preserving the history of labor, including service on the NYU's Robert F. Wagner Labor Archive Advisory Board. We were fortunate to know and work with Judith and admire her courageous work to achieve equity in the workplace. We are saddened by her loss and extend deepest sympathies to her family. Carol A. Mandel, Dean, NYU Libraries Michael Nash, Director, Tamiment Library
        $(6$)VLADECK--Judith. We mourn the passing of our colleague and friend, and honor her long service and commitment to preserving our labor heritage. We extend our condolences to the Vladeck family. Advisory Board Robert F. Wagner Labor Archive New York University
      