
        DODGE--Cleveland E. (Clee) Jr., on Sunday, January 28, in Bennington, Vermont, after a long struggle with prostate cancer. He was 84. Born on March 7, 1922, in Riverdale, New York, Mr. Dodge was the son of Cleveland E. and Pauline Morgan Dodge. He was the great-grandson William E. Dodge, founder of the Phelps Dodge Corporation. He attended Riverdale Country School, Bronx, and the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Connecticut before graduating from the Princeton University School of Engineering on an accelerated program in 1942. During WWII he served as commander of a PT boat in Honolulu, Hawaii. In 1955 he set up his own company, Dodge Fibers Corp., making Teflon-coated fabrics, insulation and other industrial products in Hoosick Falls, New York. Mr. Dodge served as a Member and Director of the Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation, Inc, (which was established by his grandfather in 1917) from 1955 until the death of his father in 1982, when he was elected President and served until 2002. Since then he served as Chairman of the Board of Directors until his death. During his lifetime, Mr. Dodge served on many charitable Boards including The Antique Boat Museum, Clayton, New York; The Bennington Museum, Bennington, Vermont; The Bisbee Council on Arts and Humanities, Bisbee, Arizona; Silver City Museum, Silver City, New Mexico; Springfield College, Springfield, Massachusetts; and the YMCA Pension Fund in New York City. He also served on the Boards of Atlantic Mutual Companies, New York City; KeyBank, Dayton, Ohio; and the Phelps Dodge Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona. Mr. Dodge was married to the late Phyllis Boushall Dodge, who died in January, 2004. He is survived by his children, Alice Dodge Berkeley of London, England, Sally Dodge Mole of Manchester, Vermont, and Cleveland E. Dodge, III of Montreal, Canada, along with six grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, and many nieces, nephews and cousins. He is also survived by a sister, Joan Dodge Rueckert of Hanover, New Hampshire. A memorial service will be held at St. Johns Church in Williamstown, Massachusetts, on February 23, 2007. Interment will be at the family crypt in Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx, New York.
      