
        GREEN--Corey Thandwa. Was born on November 23, 1972, in Brooklyn, New York, to Cheryl D. Fells Davis and Morris H. Green. His untimely passing on February 10, 2007, at the age 34, occurred in his beloved community of Greenwich Village in New York City. Corey attended Fessenden School in Massachusetts, and Loomis Chaffee in Connecticut, where he balanced academics and athletics. Corey played tennis, basketball, and was the captain of the soccer and lacrosse teams at Loomis Chaffee. His exceptional skill in soccer led to an invitation to try out for the U.S. soccer team. In 1995, Corey earned a Bachelor of Science Degree at the University of Vermont in Burlington. While at the University of Vermont, he performed with a professional band where he played trap drums. Throughout his life music was important. At the time of his death, Corey was employed by Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc., as a Senior Vice President of Institutional Investments in New York City. The impact of his life goes beyond his accomplishments as a Senior Vice President for institutional investments, musician, and athlete. Perhaps Corey's greatest gift is that he inspired and connected others. Some people create deals, but Corey created relationships by connecting his diverse friends to each other. With a kind word for everyone and the ability to make everyone laugh, the flame that Corey lit will continue to burn. His dedication and commitment to family and friends, generosity, intelligence, integrity, passion, and professional advancement showed a true leader. He is survived by his parents. He is also survived by his stepfather, Johnny Davis; maternal grandmother, Minnie Fells; paternal grandmothers, Elizabeth Green and Charlotte Green; sisters, Amanda and Madison Green; brother, Gannon Green; aunts, Gayle Green Taylor and Gina Green; cousins, Ernest Rollins, Mary ''Lolli'' Houston, and Izell Fells; countless grandaunts and cousins; his godmother, Wilmer Hill Grier; and the love of his life, soul mate, and companion, Salome Makonnen. Corey is also survived and remembered by his extended family/brothers--Donnovan Andrews, Desmond Isais Bekele, Josef Bekele, Mike Brancati, Andrew Chapman, Wesley Delcol, Mollee Lusson Klein, Omar Maragao, Mike Robertson, Marcus Samuelsson, and Rene John Sandy II. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Corey T. Green Foundation. Please make checks payable to the RSGroup Trust Company FBO Corey T. Green Foundation, and mail to: RSGroup Trust, Church Street Station, P.O. Box 1644, New York, NY 10008-1644. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison at 81st. Thursday 2-4, 7-9. Funeral Service will be at St. Bartholomew's Church, E. 50 St. and Park Avenue, Friday 11am.
      