
        VAN NOSTRAND--Judy. A beautiful lady, gracious hostess, devoted wife, mother and grandmother, patron of the arts. Her dedication and leadership as a volunteer fund raiser for the Lighthouse International was exceptional as was her strength and courage in her final battle with cancer. This tribute to Judy is heartfelt from two of her lifelong friends. Mary Rossbach and Gerry Herzfeld
        $(6$)VAN NOSTRAND--Judy. The Board of Directors, Women's Committee and staff of Lighthouse International mourns the passing of our dearest friend, esteemed colleague, visionary philanthropist and dedicated, long-time leader of our annual POSH and Scholarships and Career Awards programs. She was part of the Lighthouse family for more than half a century. We offer heartfelt condolences to her children and grandchildren.
        $(6$)VAN NOSTRAND--Julia Eaton. Surrounded by family, passed away peacefully at her home in New York City on February 5th. She was 82 years old. Known to family and friends as Judy, she had a full and happy life that began with a fashion career in the 1940s and 50s for such famous designers as Adrian and Irenen of Hollywood. In 1953 she married M. Abbott Van Nostrand in Paris. Abbott, who predeceased her was the President of Samuel French, Inc., the largest Theatrical Play publisher and author's Representative in the English-speaking world (representing such playwrights as Neil Simon, Tom Stoppard, Alan Ayckbourn and Thornton Wilder). During their lives, Judy and Abbott were frequently sited at Broadway opening night as well as The Stork Club, 21 and many charity benefits. Judy raised her family in Forest Hills Gardens, NY, where she was a founding member of the Village Improvement Society, before moving to Manhattan in the late 1970s. A dedicated volunteer, Judy devoted over 50 years to The Lighthouse International for the blind raising millions of dollars to support scholarship and career awards programs. A great lover of beauty, Judy expressed her artistic talents through the ''art of the painted finish''. A student of the renowned authority, Isabel O'Neil, Judy was instrumental in establishing the Isabel O'Neil Studio Workshop and Foundation that continues today. Those of us who love her will remember Judy saying, ''I've had a great life''. She is survived by daughters, Randall and Abbie Van Nostrand, step daughters Patricia Hacker and Pamela Newton, 13 grandchildren and 15 greatgrandchildren. Visitation is at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st and Madison Avenue, Thursday, February 8th from 4:00pm to 8:00pm. Funeral services will be held on February 9th, 11 am at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church with private burial to follow. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to The Lighthouse, International and/or Isabel O'Neil Foundation.
        $(6$)VAN NOSTRAND--Julia Eaton: From her youth, Judy conquered the world with her joie de vivre. A creative artist, devoting her energies to ''The Lighthouse'', as Chair of the Women's Division and Trustee. Judy was a true benefactor and will be sorely missed. Alvin and Davida Deutsch
      