
        KRAMER--Saul. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished and long-time member, Saul Kramer. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia Waxman, President George Asch, Secretary
        $(6$)KRAMER--Saul. Beloved father of Kathie and Robert, grandfather of Charles, Nancie, James, Michael, David and Lesley, beloved greatgrandfather of Justice, Peyton, Bodhi and Tristan. A better man never was. Dad, Poppy, Poops, we learned the meaning of compassion and caring from your actions. The world is a much better place for your having been. Your life may be over but your legacy is everlasting. We loved you then, we love you now, we will love you always and forever.
        $(6$)KRAMER--Saul. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply and profoundly saddened by the loss of this extraordinary man, who was our dear and gentle friend and among our most devoted supporters. Along with his beloved late wife, Lola, Saul was a member of the Einstein family since the 1950's when the medical school was founded. He was elected to our Board of Overseers in 1977 and served as Vice Chairman of the Board from 1991 until 2003. In that year, Einstein honored him by naming him the first Life Overseer of our Board. He also was a past chairman of the College's Society of Founders and a longtime inspirational leader of its annual Palm Beach Gala. He received an honorary degree from Yeshiva University in 1985. Saul and Lola's philanthropy touched every aspect of the College's mission. Benefactors of Einstein, they endowed a professorial chair in molecular genetics, established a laboratory for multiple sclerosis research and created a student loan fund in their name. In recognition of their generosity and commitment to the medical school, the Kramers were named the 1983 recipients of the Einstein Humanitarian Award, and in 2003 they received the College's Lifetime Achievement Award. We already miss Saul's presence. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter, Dr. Kathie Kramer Rudy, a Guardian of Yeshiva University and member of the Board of its Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology; his son, Robert (Bernice) Kramer; and his six grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Allen M. Spiegel, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Beth B. Myers, Chair Board of Governors
      