
        KRET--Rabbi Jacob. The officers and members of the Old Broadway Synagogue announce with profound sadness the death on February 7, 2007 of our beloved teacher, spiritual leader, and mentor, Rabbi Jacob Kret, of blessed memory. Rabbi Kret grew up in Poland where he attended the Bialystoker Yeshiva. He excelled in his studies and was acknowledged as the top student of his day. He was later appointed to a leadership position in the yeshiva in his home town of Ostrow Mazowiecka, near Warsaw. Following the Nazi invasion of Poland, Rabbi Kret was arrested by the Soviet authorities while attempting to lead his students to safety in Lithuania. He was imprisoned and later sent to a labor camp in Siberia, where he ultimately met his wife, Chana. After the war, he moved to the Zeilsheim displaced persons camp near Frankfurt, where he founded a Yeshiva for Holocaust survivors. In 1948, Rabbi Kret came to New York City, and with the help of Rabbi Yosef Eliyahu Henkin, of blessed memory, he was hired as the rabbi of the Old Broadway Synagogue in the West Harlem neighborhood of Manhattanville. In his early years at Old Broadway, Rabbi Kret brought new life to the congregation and the community by settling dozens of Holocaust survivors in the neighborhood. During his 48-year tenure, Rabbi Kret befriended and deeply influenced many hundreds of Columbia, Barnard and Jewish Theological Seminary students. Rabbi Kret was, in the words of Hillel, a disciple of Aaron. He loved peace and he pursued peace; he loved people, and he brought them close to the Torah through his warmth and his kind and gentle example. Rabbi Kret is survived by his wife, Chana; his children Miriam and Rabbi Chaim Mezei and Norman and Deborah Kret and by many grandchildren and great-grandchildren. As he was a blessing to so many in life, may his memory continue to be a blessing to the many that he touched. Old Broadway Synagogue, Jacob Worenklein, Chairman Paul Radensky, President Jonathan Schachter, Vice President Orrin Tilevitz, Financial Secretary
      