
        MENOTTI--Gian Carlo, New York City Opera mourns the passing of one of the most eminent figures of 20th-century American opera and a respected City Opera company member from 1948-1975. We are proud to have presented 10 of his operas (more than those of any composer other than Handel), including the world premiere of ''The Most Important Man'', the New York stage premieres of ''Amahl and the Night Visitors'' and ''The Old Maid and the Thief'', and productions of his Pulitzer - Prize - winning ''The Consul'' and ''The Saint of Bleecker Street'', as well as his ''Amelia Goes To The Ball'', ''The Medium'', ''Maria Golovin'', ''Help, Help the Globolinks!'', and ''La Loca'' (all of which he himself directed, except for the final two). His tremendous legacy also includes the founding and longtime leadership of the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, and Spoleto Festival USA, in Charleston, S.C., as well as pioneering ventures in radio and television opera. He will be particularly in our thoughts next season, as we present the company premiere of Barber's ''Vanessa'', whose libretto was written by Maestro Menotti. His contributions to the world of music have been enormous and his influence on the future of American opera is immense. He will be missed. Paul Kellogg General Director
        $(6$)MENOTTI--Gian Carlo. The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the passing of alumnus Gian Carlo Menotti (Composition 33), who served on the Curtis faculty from 1941 to 1955 and from 1965 to 1971. This key figure in American opera began his association with Curtis in 1928, becoming close to founder Mary Louise Curtis Bok and producing his first successful opera, Amelia Goes to the Ball, with her enthusiastic involvement. As a teacher at Curtis, he nurtured his own students, including Ned Rorem and Lee Hoiby, with diligence and generosity. Gian Carlo Menotti will be remembered with the utmost affection by everyone at Curtis. Roberto Diaz, President H.F. (Gerry) Lenfest, Chairman The Curtis Institute of Music
      