
        KRASNOFF--Abraham. Long Island Community Foundation advisory board and staff mourn the loss of Abraham Krasnoff, immediate past chairman, generous donor, wise, compassionate, strategic sage, and dear friend. Abe Krasnoff was an extraordinary philanthropist, distributing millions of dollars to nonprofit organizations both on and off Long Island, primarily through a fund in the LICF. His generosity cannot be measured solely through these gifts. A modest, self-effacing man, Abe's enlightened leadership as board chairman made many things possible, including the launching of LICF's ERASE Racism initiative, now an effective, independent organization. We join Abe's family and the many organizations he helped lead, in appreciation of this extraordinary man's contributions to Long Island, its people, and its future. We will miss him.
        $(6$)KRASNOFF--Abraham. The members of the NYU Leonard N. Stern School of Business community mourn the passing of their dear friend and alumnus, Abraham Krasnoff. As an NYU Stern Overseer Emeritus and generous supporter of the school, Abe's imprint is indelible. The Abraham Krasnoff Professorship in Global Business, the Krasnoff Lecture, and scholarships for both undergraduate and graduate students will endure as testaments to his unwavering commitment to education. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Julienne, and to his entire family. NYU Stern
        $(6$)KRASNOFF--Abraham. The Nassau County Democratic Committee mourns the passing of our great friend, Abraham Krasnoff. Abe was a humanitarian who never forgot the plight of others. Our deepest condolences to the Krasnoff family. Jay S. Jacobs, Chairman Leonard D. Steinman, Vice-Chairman
        $(6$)KRASNOFF--Abraham. The staff and board of ERASE Racism mourn the loss of Abraham Krasnoff, a founding board member. His bold leadership, wise counsel, generosity and steadfast commitment to exposing institutional racism helped launch ERASE Racism. We will miss this astute, gentle man who never stopped fighting against injustice.
      