
        JOHNSTONE--Janet Olcott, a 33-year resident of Pt. Manalapan, FL, passed away on February 8th, 2007, of heart failure. Mrs. Johnstone was the daughter of the late Rita Olcott and the well-known Irish tenor Chauncey Olcott. Mr. Olcott was the performing artist and composer of a number of Irish songs, including When Irish Eyes Are Smiling, My Wild Irish Rose and Mother Machree. Mrs. Johnstone followed in her fathers musical footsteps. As a young child growing up in Monte Carlo she began playing the piano and her proficiency was quickly recognized by Ignacy Paderewski, the legendary Twentieth Century Polish pianist. Paderewski took young Janet under his wing and she began touring throughout Europe. As his protege, she made her musical debut in the United States at Town Hall in New York. She is believed to be the youngest pianist ever to have been introduced at Town Hall. In the Thirties, the young Janet Olcott got her first taste of the New York Social Scene when she was named one of Top Debutantes of 1936. The Afternoon Teas held at Inniscarra, the Olcott estate in Saratoga, NY, during the August racing season, became the gathering hub for the Smart Set including, as she called him, Uncle Sam Riddle, owner of Man of War, as well as the politicians of the era including President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Governor Al Smith. Mrs. Johnstone was predeceased by her husband of 46 years, New York advertising executive Edmund F. Johnstone. As a resident of New York City she put aside her classical piano training and became very involved in a number of charitable organizations. During World War II, Mrs. Johnstone served with the Red Cross, driving ambulances carrying wounded troops between hospitals along the east Coast. She is a member of the New York Junior League and had been on the Board of Directors of the Arthritis Foundation, and the Henry Street Settlement. With the latter, along with the late Mrs. Edward Pflueger, she conceived and then launched what has become a New York City tradition for antique aficionados, the annual Winter Antiques Show held at the Seventh Regiment Armory. She also was a member of the Board of the New York Infirmary, and served for many years as Chairman of the Prize Committee for the Annual Debutant Cotillion at The Waldorf Astoria. She, along with her late husband, were also among the original members of the New Canaan Field Club in Connecticut. The Johnstone's had for many years maintained summer homes in Pound Ridge, New York and New Canaan, Connecticut. In Florida, she was a member of the Ocean Club in Ocean Ridge, Manalapan Yacht Club and LaCoquille Club. She also had been the Chairman of the J. Turner Moore Library in Manalapan. In addition to her parents and her husband, Mrs. Johnstone was predeceased by her son, Ned Johnstone. She is survived by sons Chauncey O. Johnstone of Wilton, CT and Charles T. Johnstone of New York City and daughters Lammy Johnstone-Kockler of Solvang, CA and Jyll Johnstone of Belvedere, CA as well as four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 12 PM in Lantana, Florida on February 12 at the Babione-Stephenson Funeral Chapel, with burial later at Woodlawn Cemetery in New York.
      