
        BIRCH--Patti Cadby. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Honorary Trustee Patti Cadby Birch. Patti joined the MoMA Board of Trustees in 1995 and was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1998. During her tenure at the Museum, Patti served with dedication as a member of the International Council (since 1994), the Chairman's Council, the Library Council, and the Conservation Committee. We deeply appreciate her generosity to the Museum's expansion project and her memory will live on through The Patti Cadby Birch Garden Plaza. Her love of music, art and travel made her a wonderful companion wherever she was around the world. She will always be remembered as a warm and gracious hostess on many occasions, in Venice and elsewhere. The Trustees and staff are profoundly grateful for Patti's many contributions to the life of the Museum and will remember her with affection and high regard. Her great spirit will be sorely missed and we extend our sympathies to all members of the Birch family. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Jose Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        $(6$)BIRCH--Patti Cadby. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Patti Cadby Birch, who was a longtime and beloved Honorary Trustee, Benefactor, and generous supporter of many areas of the Museum. She and her husband, Everett, first became involved with the Metropolitan in the early 1970's, and over the years they--and then she, after his death in 1987--made significant and wide-ranging donations of works of art and funding support toward curatorial activities, exhibitions, and capital needs. She participated with particular intensity and interest in the Islamic art and 19th-century, modern, and contemporary art departments, and her many notable gifts included support for the opening in 1998 of the restored minbar from the Kutubiyya Mosque in Marrakesh (a unique collaboration between the Metropolitan's conservation specialists and Moroccan craftsmen) and an endowed curatorship and gallery in the Department of Islamic Art. She chaired the Friends of Islamic Art group since its founding in 1994, and was an active participant in committees that provided advice and support to several curatorial areas, including the arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas; European paintings; modern art; and Greek and Roman art. She had a keen eye, a lively and caring soul, and a passion for the collecting, study, preservation, and sharing of fine art. She was part of the fabric of this institution, and will be greatly missed by all. James R. Houghton, Chrman Philippe de Montebello, Dir Emily K. Rafferty, President
        $(6$)BIRCH--Patti. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear friend, Patti. Now you are with your beloved Everett. Rest in peace. Gail and Mark Imowitz
      