
        LEVINE--Harold. We mourn the loss of our dear nephew. Our hearts go out to his family. You gave so much of yourself to so many important charities, your community and to your family. We know you will be truly missed, and now you join your mother who had loved you dearly. Doris and Stanley Tananbaum
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold. The Trustees, Administration and the entire Jewish Theological Seminary Family mourn the loss of Harold Levine, beloved brother of our Trustee, Alan Levine. Harold fought and won many times over, but is gone from us now. His memory will surely be a blessing for so many. The Jewish Theological Seminary, Arnold M. Eisen, Chancellor-elect Gershon Kekst, Chairman of the Board
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold. Our deepest condolences to the family of our dear cousin. The Martin Tananbaum Foundation
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold. We deeply mourn the loss of our cherished friend who displayed great inspiration, love and valour. Our sympathies to Carol and the entire Levine family. Jackie, Charlie, David, Candace, Elizabeth, Darren
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold. Our deepest condolences to the extended family of our beloved cousin, Harold. A man of great courage and an inspiration to all. He will be missed by all that knew him and his memory will forever be in our hearts. Ricki and Bob Conway Janet and Rudi de Winter Pat and Jerry Epstein Susan and Bobby Klein Deedy and David Goldstick Susan and Bruce Waterfall
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold, of Goshen, New York. He passed away on February 17, 2007 at 61yrs. after a courageous battle with Multiple Myeloma. Loving husband of Carol (nee Blinkoff) Levine. Adored father of Rachel Steinberg and Eric Levine; father in law of Matt Steinberg (Philadelphia) and father in law to be of Samantha Gerber (NYC). Beloved son of Jacques and the late Florence (Tananbaum) Levine. Son in law of Jessica Blinkoff and the late Jack Blinkoff. Beloved eldest brother of Alan Levine and Alison Newman Levine (NYC), Minna Levine and Ronald Calvanio (Boston) and David Levine and Sherrie Zacharias (Los Angeles). Beloved uncle of the Levine grandchildren and cousin to the extended Levine-Tananbaum families. A tzadik pure and simple. He took Middletown Footwear and its Jacques Levine womens shoes into the third generation. A leader in the secular (Boy Scouts of America) and Jewish community of Orange County (formerly as President of the Jewish Federation of Orange County). A dear friend to many. A man of uncommon decency, integrity and extraordinary generousity. Words cannot express our sorrow. Contributions in his memory to the International Myeloma Foundation and Jewish Federation of Orange County. Funeral services will be at Temple Sinai, Highland Avenue, Middletown, New York on Monday at 2pm.
      