
        RADIGAN--John J., long time Merck & Co., Inc. Vice President, dies in his 92nd year in Naples, Florida on February 17, 2007. He was generally credited with the progressive, innovative and highly respected hiring and employment practices at Merck & Co. The company still enjoys a reputation for one of the best places to work. He was known as the first champion of women and minorities in the workplace. He introduced new corporate incentive plans, training programs and comprehensive medical coverage for all employees. He joined Merck as Director of Personnel Relations in 1956 and held that title until it evolved into Corporate Vice President for Personnel Relations and of Corporate Industrial Relations. He became Deputy for Human Resources worldwide. He was a member of the Management Council at the time of his retirement in 1980. He was also the Assistant Personnel Director for General Motors Delco Plant in Bloomfield, New Jersey and the Director of Industrial Relations for E. W. Bliss in Brooklyn, New York. Throughout his life, he was an accomplished jazz musician and is credited with playing alongside many famous artists such as Sol Yager and Gene Kruppa during the 1930s and 1940s. He was a generous supporter of the Catholic Archdiocese of Newark, New Jersey. For his philanthropy, he was given the highest honor as a layman, a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory by Pope John Paul II. He has a long list of distinctions as President of the Rahway Rotary Club, of the Boy Scouts of America, Chairman of the Industrial Relations Advisory Committee, of the Manufacturing Chemist Association, the Personnel Sector of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, the Board of Trustees of Overlook Hospital in Summit and of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Radigan is survived by his beloved wife of 66 years, Ruth Elizabeth and their three daughters, Colleen Hanson of Venice, FL, Sherry Davis of Naples, FL, and Claudia Wardman of Paget, Bermuda, five grandchildren and four great grandchildren. The family will receive friends on Wednesday, February 21, 2007 from 4:00PM to 7:00PM at Walter Shikanys Bonita Funeral Home 28300 Tamiami Tr. So. Bonita Springs. Catholic Scripture services will be held at 6:30PM. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Thursday at 11:00 AM at St. Leo the Great Catholic Church 28294 Beaumont Rd. Bonita Springs, FL. Additional services and entombment will be held Saturday at 11:00AM at St. Teresa of Avila Cemetery in Summit, NJ. The family suggests that memorial contributions in his name be made to the Alzheimers Support Network 660 Tamiami Trail North, Suite 21, Naples, FL 34102. Services by Walter Shikanys Bonita Funeral Home Bonita Springs, FL (239) 992-4982.
      