
        FENTON--Arnold N., M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at North Shore University Hospital mourns the loss of Arnold N. Fenton, M.D. Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology from 1960 to 1997. One of the hospital's founding leaders, Dr. Fenton was instrumental in the growth and development of the Medical Center and its reputation for excellence in patient care, research and education. His passion for education, his devotion to patients, and his stellar leadership was evidenced by the success and growth of his Department. Dr. Fenton was a national leader in the field of Obstetrics and Gynecology, was the President of many organizations, and made important contributions to the specialty. All of his friends in the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and his colleagues in the Hospital and throughout the country will mourn the loss of this exceptional physician. Vicki Seltzer, M.D., Chairman of Obstetrics and Gynecology, North Shore University Hospital
        $(6$)FENTON--Dr. Arnold N. Beloved physician, teacher and Emeritus Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Cornell University Medical College at North Shore University Hospital, died of natural causes at his home in Sarasota, Florida, 12 days before his 86th birthday. His family was at his bedside. Dr. Fenton grew up on Long Island, NY, attending Lawrence High School before graduating Cum Laude from Lafayette College. He received his medical degree from the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia University in New York. After an internship at Lenox Hill Hospital, he trained in Obstetrics and Gynecology at ColumbiaPresbyterian and Mt. Sinai Hospitals. He served three years in the US Navy. In 1952, he established one of the first private practices in obstetrics and gynecology on Long Island. In 1959, Dr. Fenton became the first full-time Director of Obstetrics and Gynecology at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, Long Island. Under his direction, the department became a nationally respected center for comprehensive Ob/Gyn care, training generations of practicing and academic physicians. He retired as Director in 1999. In 1986, grateful patients and friends established an endowed chairmanship at the hospital in his honor. Dr. Fenton was a Fellow of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology, a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and served as the President of the New York Obstetrical Society in 1974-75. He was on the Board of Examiners of the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology. In 1968, he volunteered his medical services for Project HOPE in Cartagena, Colombia. He served as Medical Director of Planned Parenthood of Nassau County in the 1990s. Dr. Fenton was a lifelong athlete, playing football, lacrosse and golf in college. A self-taught scratch golfer with an unorthodox swing, Dr. Fenton played in the U.S. Amateur Championship and later the Long Island Amateur Tournament. He was a five time club champion at North Shore Country Club in Glen Head, New York, for many years holding the amateur course record (67) and scoring holes-in-one on all of the course's par three holes. In his retirement in Montauk, NY and Sarasota, FL, he played golf and tennis. Always an ardent New York sports fan, the football Giants were his passion. He held season tickets for more than 45 years. Dr. Fenton is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marilyn (Lynn) Fenton, his sister, Marilyn F. Wiener, his son, Bradley Fenton MD, his daughters, Lisbeth Grossman and Andrea Gilbert, his daughter-in-law, Marie Savard MD, and sons-in-law, Robert Grossman and Bruce Gilbert. He leaves behind nine adored grandchildren: Zachary, Aaron and Benjamin Fenton, Laura, Katie and Teddy Grossman and Molly, Emily and Casey Gilbert. A memorial service will be held in Sarasota Florida on February 16th at Robarts Funeral Home at 1:00 PM. Donations may be made to the Arnold N. Fenton MD Fund at North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, New York and to Tidewell Hospice of Sarasota, Florida.
      