
        THACHER--Barbara Auchincloss. 88, February 1, 2007 of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT and North Haven, ME. Wife of Thomas Thacher (deceased 2004) for 62 years and mother of six children, Barbara Thacher Plimpton (Brooklyn, NY), Elizabeth Thacher Hawn (Orono, MN), Thomas D. II (Bedford, NY), Hugh A. (Dhahran, Saudi Arabia), and Andrew (Barrington, RI). Grandmother of seven grandchildren, Sarah and Elizabeth Plimpton, Benjamin and Amanda Hawn, Chessie and Thomas Thacher and Olivia Thacher. Keenly interested in issues relating to children and education, she was a student of history who cared deeply about the opportunities and challenges confronting current and future generations. Her belief in the responsibility and worth of each individual in shaping the world, fueled her service on a multitude of charitable boards and as a church deacon. She was the first female chair of the Board of Trustees of Bryn Mawr College from which she graduated in 1940 after graduating from the Chapin School. She was also chair of the Leake and Watts Children's Home and a Vice-Chair of the New York City Board of Higher Education, a position to which she was appointed by Mayor John V. Lindsay. She delighted in the many people she met serving on the boards of, among others: Teacher's College of Columbia University (from which she earned a Master's in 1965); WNET-TV Channel 13; Riverdale Country Day School; the Public Social Policy Committee of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and the New York City Park Association. A fierce and accomplished tennis player, she succeeded in outfoxing her children and grandchildren in most racquet sports well into her 70's. She also delighted in terrifying one and all in her infamous haunted houses every Halloween. She started her career working for Newsweek Magazine as an editorial assistant, one of the first women to fill the shoes of the men departing for the armed services. In the following year she moved to the New York Times where she worked on the Sunday Magazine and the Week in Review. While raising her family, she wrote book reviews for the Herald Tribune and, for several years, created the Christmas Children's Book List for Harper's Magazine. In recognition of her many years of civic engagement, she was given the M. Carey Thomas Award by Bryn Mawr College in 1985, and, in 1992, Teacher's College awarded her the Cleveland E. Dodge Medal for Distinguished Contribution to Education. Committed to her father's credo that one owes ''obedience to the unenforceable,'' she will continue to inspire all who knew her to serve the greater good. She was tireless and we loved her dearly. A memorial service will be held at 4:30 on May 5, 2007 at the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Bryn Mawr College, Helfarian, 101 North Merion Avenue, Bryn Mawr, PA 19010-289.
      