
        LEVINE--Harold. We mourn the loss of our dear nephew. Our hearts go out to his family. You gave so much of yourself to so many important charities, your community and toyour family. We know you will be truly missed, and now you join your mother who had loved you dearly. Doris and Stanley Tananbaum
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold. We deeply mourn the loss of our cherished friend who displayed great inspiration, love and valour. Our sympathies to Carol and the entire Levine family. Jackie, Charlie, David, Candace, Elizabeth, Darren
        $(6$)LEVINE--Harold, of Goshen, New York. He passed away on February 17, 2007 at 61yrs. after a courageous battle with Multiple Myeloma. Loving husband of Carol (nee Blinkoff) Levine. Adored father of Rachel Steinberg and Eric Levine; father in law of Matt Steinberg (Philadelphia) and father in law to be of Samantha Gerber (NYC). Beloved son of Jacques and the late Florence (Tananbaum) Levine. Son in law of Jessica Blinkoff and the late Jack Blinkoff. Beloved eldest brother of Alan Levine and Alison Newman Levine (NYC), Minna Levine and Ronald Calvanio (Boston) and David Levine and Sherrie Zacharias (Los Angeles). Beloved uncle of the Levine grandchildren and cousin to the extended Levine-Tananbaum families. A tzadik pure and simple. He took Middletown Footwear and its Jacques Levine womens shoes into the third generation. A leader in the secular (Boy Scouts of America) and Jewish community of Orange County (formerly as President of the Jewish Federation of Orange County). A dear friend to many. A man of uncommon decency, integrity and extraordinary generousity. Words cannot express our sorrow. Contributions in his memory to the International Myeloma Foundation and Jewish Federation of Orange County. Funeral services will be at Temple Sinai, Highland Avenue, Middletown, New York on Monday at 2pm.
        $(6$)LEVINE--Kent, aka the Handsome Modest Man, irascible, unforgettable, passed away after a long illness on Cape Cod, February 4, 2007. He is lovingly remembered by his wife Wendy, children, David, Michael, Robin, Lauren and 11 grandchildren. Burial was held in Old North Cemetery, Truro, MA. Memorial donations may be made to The Truro Rescue Squad, Route 6, Truro, MA 02666.
      