
        GREEN--Jack Peter, M.D., Ph.D. The faculty and staff of the Dorothy H. and Lewis Rosenstiel Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, note with sadness the passing of Jack Peter Green, M.D., Ph.D,. Professor Emeritus. Dr. Green was the founding Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology at Mount Sinai and led the department for 30 years. Throughout his tenure he mentored and supported many young faculty during their formative years, and maintained active interest and support for both the research and education missions of the department. He was a highly regarded pharmacologist, who was best known for his work on histamine, and an early proponent of histamine and its metabolites as central nervous system neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. In addition to his activities at Mount Sinai, Dr. Green devoted considerable energies to national and international professional organizations including the Association for Medical School Pharmacology, the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology, the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics and the International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family and friends.
        $(6$)GREEN--Jack Peter, M.D., Ph.D., The Trustees, Facility and Staff of Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Jack Peter Green, M.D., Ph.D., founding Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology and Professor Emeritus of the Dorothy H. and Lewis Rosenstiel Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics. Dr. Green was a highly regarded pharmacologist who made important discoveries about the actions of histamine and serotonin in the brain. He was one of the first pharmacologists to apply quantum mechanical techniques to the study of pharmacology. We extend our condolences to his wife, Arlyne, his family, and friends. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President, CEO and Dean Dennis S. Charney, M.D., Dean for Academic and Scientific Affairs, Mount Sinai Medical Center Barry Stimmel, M.D., President, Mount Sinai Alumni
      