
        NEMHAUSER--Leonard Eric. Decorated WWII Vet, avid Rutgers football fan. Died at Willow Creek Rehabilitation Center in Somerset. Leonard Eric Nemhauser, formerly of Edison and Monroe Township, NJ, died on Tuesday, February 6, after a long illness. Born in the Bronx, NY on February 8, 1924. His family moved to Highland Park, NJ when he was eight years old. He attended Highland Park High School, where he played on the football and tennis teams, and graduated at the age of 16. He was a premedical student at NYU, for one year, before volunteering for the army at age 17. During WWII, he served in the Army Air Corps, based in the Northern Pacific on Attu and Kiska islands. He was a corpsman in the medical clinic, where he was in charge of sick call, and performed several lifesaving operations. He also volunteered for a rescue mission for a downed aircraft, and shortly before his discharge, he was awarded the Air Corps Medal of Valor, which is the equivalent of a Bronze Star. After the war, he resumed his studies at Rutgers University, Class of 1948. His dreams of becoming a doctor were replaced with something much more important, when he became engaged to his future wife, the former Rose Brodsky of South River. Rose and Leonard were married on April 4, 1948, at the Plaza Hotel in New York City. He went to work for his father, the late Benjamin Nemhauser, at the family's retail children's clothing store, The Capitol Kiddie Shop, in New Brunswick, NJ, where he remained until the store was closed in 1982. Leonard was an avid, almost fanatic fan of Rutgers University's Football team, and held season tickets from 1955 until his death, although, due to his illness, he was unable to attend any games in the 2006 ''Amazing Season''. His absence for that year saddened many of his family and friends. Mr. Nemhauser was predeceased by his father, Benjamin E., his mother Helen (nee Cohen), and his sister, Harriet Sternberg of New York City. His survivors are Rose Brodsky Nemhauser, his wife of 58 years, his sons Mark F., 56, a pharmacist, of Piscataway, and Jeffrey S., 51, also a pharmacist, of Ocean, and many, many loving nieces and nephews, and a daughter-in-law, Anne Rusher. Shiva will be observed for three days at the home of his eldest son, Mark. Contributions can be made in his name to the Rutgers Scarlet R. Foundation, or the Alzheimer's Foundation. Graveside services are being held today February 8, 2007 at 1 pm at The Mount Lebanon Cemetery in Iselin, NJ. Services are under the direction of Crabiel Parkwest Funeral Chapel, 239 Livingston Ave, New Brunswick, NJ 08901.
      