
        GUTTMAN--Charles. The attorneys and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and partner in our Litigation and Dispute Resolution Department, Charles Guttman. One of the first patent litigators hired at Proskauer, Charles came to the firm's New York office in 1998 and established a practice that focused on counseling pharmaceutical companies in highly technical matters. With a Ph.D in chemistry and his training as a litigator, Charles provided a balanced blend of scientific understanding and legal knowledge in his work for numerous domestic and international clients. Also called on for his trademark and copyright skills, Charles argued and won a highly publicized case in 1994, Waldman Publishing Corp v. Landoll Inc., which addressed rights to children's books adapted from classic novels. Known for his practical approaches to practicing law, Charles is remembered by his colleagues at Proskauer as a bright, kind man whose favorite saying was, ''Character is destiny.'' For as technical as his training was, he understood the human side of the law and strove to bring common sense to areas that defy simplification. As a mentor, Charles provided direction, instruction and encouragement to our associates. Charles received his Ph.D in chemistry from the University of Chicago and his law degree, cum laude, from Brooklyn Law School. He also earned a BS in chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A frequent author and lecturer on patent-related subjects, he was involved with a range of professional associations, including the New York Intellectual Property Association, the New York City Bar, and the American Bar Association, of which he was a member of the Science and Technology Committee. Charles was admitted to practice before the federal and state courts in New York and the US Courts of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit and the Federal Circuit. He was also a Registered Patent Attorney before the US Patent and Trademark Office. Intensely interested in world affairs and education, Charles contributed personally to educational initiatives in Israel and hosted seminars about current international events. He was an active member of several leadership committees of the American Technion Society, an organization that promotes education in science and technology as well as scientific innovation and encouragement in Israel through support of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. Charles, who brightened the lives and deepened the professional experience of his colleagues at Proskauer Rose, where he will be greatly missed and affectionately remembered, is survived by his wife Gilda and their four daughters Alexandra, Jennifer, Lisa, and Rebecca. Allen I. Fagin Chair, Proskauer Rose $(6$)GUTTMAN--Charles, Dr., on February 26th 2007. Beloved husband of Gilda. Devoted father of Rebecca, Lisa, Jennifer and Alexandra. Cherished son of Eva. Dear brother of Shirley, Freida and David. Services Wednesday 10am at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun 125, East 85th Street, NYC.
      