
        JONES--James Robert, M.D., former Chairman and Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York Medical College, died of cardiac arrest on February 12th, in Naples, FL, at the age of 72. The proud Brooklynite, and long time resident of Mendham, New Jersey, is survived by his wife, Priscilla Cooper Jones, his children Michael (Michele), F. Michael (Mary), Leslie (Stephen), Laurieann and Christopher (Cynthia). He was the tender grandfather of Kate, Emma, Andrew, Madeline, Grace, Christopher, Samuel, Carolann, Christopher and Alexandra, who all brought great joy to his life. He also is survived by his first wife, Peggy, and pre-deceased by his second wife, Carolann. Dr. Jones graduated from De La Salle Institute before earning his B.S. at Manhattan College. He earned his medical degree from SUNY Downstate in 1960 and did his residency in Ob/Gyn at Long Island College Hospital and a fellowship in Reproductive Endocrinology at University of California at San Francisco. In 1969, Dr. Jones established the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology at SUNY Downstate and performed groundbreaking work in the treatment of infertility. He was appointed to UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in 1974, where he served as Chairman of Obstetrics and Gynecology until 1988. Dr. Jones was named Professor and Chairman of Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York Medical College in late 1988 and remained there until he retired as ProfessorEmeritus in 2005. Dr. Jones was a former office holder in the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG), past president of the New York Obstetrical Society, long time member of the Brooklyn Gynecological Society, and member of Alpha Omega Alpha. A noted medical author, he was published in numerous books and professional journals. He was passionate about medicine and an inspiring professor to countless medical students. Dr. Jones was proud to have served his country in the Vietnam War from 1967-1969 where he directed a military hospital in the Mekong Delta. He was honorably discharged from the Army as a Major, decorated with the Bronze Star and Purple Heart Medals. He was a lifelong Democrat and Brooklyn Dodger fan. His family has lost a true patriarch and its guiding spirit. He was a deeply loved husband, father, grandfather, and friend. Jim was a doctor's doctor and a gentleman. A wake will be held between 2-4 and 7-9 on Friday, February 16, at the Frank Campbell Funeral Parlor in Manhattan. A funeral service will be offered Saturday, 10am, at Saint Cecilia's Roman Catholic Church in Greenpoint, and burial to follow in GreenWood Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, consider donations to Doctors Without Borders (doctorswithoutborders.org).
      