
        BOSNIAK--Stephen. We mourn the unexpected passing of our friend, Dr. Stephen Bosniak on Thursday, February 8, 2007. His dedication to his profession and his love for the written word will carry on his legacy through his extensive publications. The enormous loss of his friendship and warmth will be forever missed. A reception celebrating the life of Dr. Stephen Bosniak will be held from 6 to 9pm at the Carlyle Hotel, located at 35 East 76th Street on Saturday February 10, 2007. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made in honor of Dr. Stephen Bosniak directly to either Orbis International at www.orbis.org or The Skin Cancer Foundation at www. skincancerfoundation.org Dr. Marian Cantisano-Zilkha, Staff and family
        $(6$)BOSNIAK--Dr. Stephen, 59, passed away suddenly on Thursday, February 8th. He brought beauty and happiness to his family, friends, colleagues and patients. He was the loving brother of Mark and Hope Bosniak and Karen and Gary Patou and the devoted uncle to Jordana, Melissa, Amanda and David, Laura and Caroline. His parents, Samuel and Selma Bosniak pre-deceased him. He was a longtime business partner and friend of Marian Cantisano-Zilkha and fiance to Beth Rudin DeWoody. Stephen was a board certified eye and cosmetic surgeon trained at Washington Hospital Center and at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital. A well respected doctor throughout the field, he was published in multiple journals and articles. Dr. Bosniak was the author of several books, including the most recent, ''Beautifeye - State - of - the - Art Methods to Enhance and Rejuvenate the Eyes, Brows and Face.'' Stephen was ahead of the curve in medical innovation, publishing the first ever article on the effects of Botox in 1985. In addition to his medical practice, Stephen was very active philanthropically donating his time and expertise to organizations such as, Orbis International, a non profit group dedicated to eliminating avoidable blindness in the developing world and The Skin Cancer Foundation. On Saturday, February 10th from 6-9PM the family will host a reception for Stephen at the Carlyle Hotel located at 35 East 76th St. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made in honor of Stephen directly to either Orbis International at www.orbis.org or the Skin Cancer Foundation at www.skincancer.org
        $(6$)BOSNIAK--Stephen. To the Bosniak, Patou and DeWoody families, we extend all of our love and support as we all mourn the tragic loss of a truly wonderful man. Stephen's smile, warmth and kindness will be with us forever. He will be deeply missed by all who were touched by his life. Ophelia, Yia Yia, Rachel, Samantha, Michael, Alex, Scott, and Bill
        $(6$)BOSNIAK--Dr. Stephen. My darling Stephen, you brightened my life. For the first time I found a man who was a true soul mate. You had such a love of life and people and you knew the art happiness. I will miss your smile and your hugs, my life will not be the same without you. Carlton and Kyle really loved you as you loved them. Sweet dreams my beloved. Beth
      