
        DENTON--David. The trustees, officers and members of the Federal Bar Council are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of David Denton, husband of our colleague and friend the Hon. Reena Raggi, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. David's friendship and courage has been an inspiration to all of us. We extend our sympathy and heartfelt condolences to all of David's family. Mark C. Zauderer, President
        $(6$)DENTON--David W. The Robert B. Fiske, Jr. Association mourns the passing of David W. Denton, our esteemed friend and colleague. After clerking for United States District Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon, David served with great distinction as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Office of Robert B. Fiske, Jr., United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York beginning in 1977. David continued his service in that Office until 1992 under the next three U.S. Attorneys, John S. Martin, Jr., Rudolph W. Giuliani and Otto G. Obermaier, and was appointed to a number of executive positions including Chief of the Criminal Division and Associate U.S. Attorney. David then did outstanding work in the private sector, serving as Deputy General Counsel for Security and Investigations at Citibank and as a principal of the law firm of Porzio Bromberg & Newman P.C. Beginning in 1996 David took command of the Lloyd F. MacMahon Fund created to provide funds for summer student interns needing financial assistance in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. David assumed a leadership position, on behalf of the Federal Bar Council, in coordinating the MacMahon Fund's work with the fund-raising efforts of the J. Edward Lumbard, Robert B. Fiske, Jr., and Eastern District Associations, the Riot Relief Fund, and the Arthur N. Abbey Fund. David ambitiously expanded the scope of the program, working with several law schools to promote student internships at the United States Attorney's Offices and to obtain matching work-study funds for needy students. David was liaison to the United States Attorney's Offices for the Southern, Eastern and Northern Districts of New York and the District of Connecticut in the recruitment of stipend recipients, Through his unstinting efforts in planning and coordination of these groups, David arranged for summer intern positions for over one hundred students who would have been otherwise unable to afford unpaid government service. As a distinguished lawyer and effective public servant David earned the friendship, respect and admiration of all those he worked with. we extend our deepest condolences on his passing to his wife, the Honorable Reena Raggi and to his son David.
      