
        JAFFE--Edwin A., beloved husband of Lola Jaffe, passed away peacefully on February 14, 2007 at their home in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Ed was born in Brooklyn, New York, September 3, 1922 and grew up in Fall River, Massachusetts. A Yale University graduate, he was President of the J & J Corrugated Box Corporation from 1946 until the company was sold in 1986. At the time of the sale, Ed had built the company to be the largest independent company of its kind. He was respected throughout the industry as an innovative businessman and visionary leader. He was also an active member of the Independent Corrugated Converters Association. Always willing to give his all for the community in which he lived, Ed was a tireless fundraiser as Campaign Chairman for the United Jewish Appeal in Fall River. He was a Founder and President of SSTAR (Stanley Street Treatment & Resources) from 1977-1985 a major center for the treatment of substance abuse problems in Fall River, MA. Ed served as Trustee, and later Board Chairman at The Miriam Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island from 1976 to 1993. Following that tenure, he chaired the Board of The Miriam Hospital Foundation, spearheading efforts for a major capital campaign. He was a Fellow at Brandeis University and had an enduring interest in that institution from the time of its founding. At the time of his death, he was President of The Jaffe Foundation, which was focused on health, education and the arts, having served from its inception in 1962. Ed and Lola Jaffe became residents of Stockbridge, MA in 1968 and from that time on, both became vital members of the South Berkshire community. Ed took great pride in being the Founding Chair of Berkshire South Regional Community Center in Great Barrington, MA, and was a driving force behind the capital campaign to establish the Center. He spent many years as a Trustee at Berkshire Theatre Festival in Stockbridge, and, most recently, managed the archives for the theatre. Since the age of sixteen, Ed was an avid and hugely talented photographer and curated an acclaimed exhibit of his photos at the Massachusetts College of Art in Boston in 1995. His photographs can be seen throughout the Berkshires. A recipient of many awards, he and Lola were honored most recently by the American Israel Cultural Foundation, receiving the prestigious King Solomon Award, and by the Berkshire South Regional Community Center in its first awards ceremony. Ed loved mentoring young people, and passionately believed in political involvement, education and broad exposure to the arts, as well as connection to community. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. The son of the late Meyer and Etta Jaffe, he leaves his wife Lola and four children: Walter, Allan, Robert and Donna, their spouses and partners Paul King, Toby Jaffe, Jill Klinow Jaffe and William Fishbein and six grandchildren: Julia, Alexandra, Erica and Max Jaffe and Jacob and Adam Fishbein. A burial service for the late Edwin A. Jaffe will be held on February 18, in Stockbridge, MA. A memorial service in the Berkshires will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: Berkshire South Regional Community Center, Berkshire Theatre Festival or Mahaiwe Performing Arts Center through Finnerty and Stevens Funeral Home, 426 Main Street, Great Barrington, MA 01230. Remembrances, memories and reflections may be sent to the family through www.finnertyandsteves.com
      