
        GIBBONS-NEFF--Mitch, 65, noted yachtsman. Mitchell Chance Gibbons-Neff, of Rowayton, CT, for many years President of Sparkman & Stephens, the naval architecture and yacht brokerage firm based in New York, died on February 4, 2007. He was 65. His death, at a Boston hospital, was caused by complications from lung cancer. Mr. Gibbons-Neff was born on May 4, 1941 in Bryn Mawr, PA, the son of Morton Gibbons-Neff, jr of Chestertown, MD and the late Florence Chance GibbonsNeff. He grew up in Devon, Pa. He graduated from the Haverford School, Franklin and Marshall College, and Harvard Business School. A Navy officer during the Vietn am war, he was first assigned to the navy base in Coronado, California as Boat Crew Training Officer before the crews left for Vietnam and he himself was later assigned to the Swift Boat Base at Da Nang in Cameron Bay. He conducted over one hundred gunboat missions as Officer in Charge of a Swift Class Patrol Boat. Mr. Gibbons-Neff was a worldclass sailor and participated in multiple transatlantic voyages. He sailed in twenty Newport to Bermuda races, beginning when he was 15 years old. He was a member of the New York Yacht Club, the Noroton Yacht Club, the Cruising Club of America, and the Storm Trysail Club. Long active in the affairs of the Mystic Seaport Museum, Mr. Gibbons-Neff was also an overseer of the SEA Education Association. Beloved by sailors around the world, Mitch was a legend. He is survived by his former wife Suzanne Kahn and their children TM Gibbons-Neff and Paul Gibbons-Neff, all of Boston, by his father, and brothers Morton Gibbons-Neff, III of Chestertown, MD, Peter Gibbons-Neff of Rosemont, PA, Henry Gibbons-Neff of Chestertown, MD and by many nieces and nephews. Services will be private. Memorial contributions may be made to the SEA Education Association, PO Box 6, Woods Hole, MA 02543.
        $(6$)GIBBONS-NEFF--Mitchell C. Sparkman & Stephens deeply mourns the passing of our colleague on February 4th. He joined the firm in 1977 and served as our President from 1985 until 2006. He was a mentor, friend, and shipmate to us all and we will miss him greatly. Our sincere condolences to his family. Memorial service to be held at the New York Yacht Club on February 23rd at 1600.
      