
        HAUSLER--Ellen Elizabeth, born July 8, 1957, in Miami, FL, was killed tragically February 15, in Connecticut in an automobile accident. Beloved wife of Richard M. McGonigal for 15 years, daughter of Jeannette Fuller Hausler, sister of Donald, Philomena and Jennie, beloved aunt of Madeleine and predeceased by her father, Richard A. Hausler. She also leaves behind numerous aunts, uncles and cousins across the country. Her loss will likewise be felt by her two faithful canines, Daphne and Cosmo. Ms. Hausler was Managing Director--Compliance Counsel for Deutsche Bank AG. Prior to joining Deutsche Bank in February 2004, she was an Associate General Counsel at Citicorp Global Markets, Inc., for eight years. Previous positions included senior attorney level with PaineWebber, Inc., and, from 1990 to 1994, senior attorney level in the Enforcement Division of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission's Northeast Regional Office. She began her law career as an associate attorney with the Miami, FL, office of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. She also served as law clerk to the Honorable Peter T. Fay, United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the Honorable James Lawrence King, United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Her academic accolades include a Juris Doctorate from Duke University School of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts in English with honors from Mount Holyoke College. Ellen was known for her biting wit, her almost secret abhorrence of fools, and her open honesty, tempered only by professional circumstance. Her love of literature and her fascination with the written word were hallmarks of her intellectual life. Always reading, she questioned everything. Full of self-deprecating, irreverent and cynical humor, sensitive and loyal to friends, she was a woman of unparalleled talent, wisdom, brightness, charm, spirituality and compassion. She was the love of her husband's life, and he of hers. A viewing will be held on Wednesday, February 21, from 7-10 pm, at Van Orsdel Funeral Home, located at 4600 SW 8th Street, Miami, FL. On Thursday, February 22, 2007, at 10 am, a mass of Christian burial will be celebrated at Church of the Little Flower, located at 2711 Indian Mound Trail, Coral Gables, FL, with interment following at Our Lady of Mercy Cemetery. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Richard A. Hausler Scholarship Fund and Endowed Chair, established in the memory of Ms. Hausler's father. Please send your contributions to the University of Miami School of Law, Office of Law Development and Alumni Relations, PO Box 248087, Miami, FL 33124-8087.
      