
        STEPHENSON--Garrick C. Renowned ''taste arbiter'' in the word of art and antiques, died in his sleep in New York on Saturday, February 3, 2007, after a long illness. Garrick was born in 1927 to Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Stephenson a prominent Cincinnati family and was the nephew of Briggs Cunningham of auto and yachting fame. Garrick attended Yale and The Parsons School of Design, joined McMillen & Co. as a decorater and then in 1959 began his company Garrick C. Stephenson. His collections, based on ''what strikes the eye'' were distinctive and trend setting, and within a relatively short time Garrick's clientele was the cream of society in the U. S. and abroad, including such names as Harriman, Mellon, Paley, Bass, Post, David-Weill, Kravis, among many others. A Chrtistie's auction of his collection of art and furniture was the highlight of the 1993 season. A major article the same year in ''W'' magazine in which he gave his definite and unvarnished opinion of client tastes was a bombshell. Garrick was a first rank pheasant shot and an avid golfer. His other interests were the needy, on behalf of which he established the Garrick C. Stephenson Foundation to support charity organizations in Southampton and the south fork of Long Island, NY. He had a continuing interest in art by way of his own research and purchases, and with such participation as on the Advisory Board of The National Academy Museum in N.Y. and his long term presidency of The Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, NY. Garrick is survived by his wife Claire McGinnis Stephenson of Southampton, NY, New York City, and Palm Beach, Florida, his daughters Mary Stephenson of Southampton, NY and Naples, Florida, Serena Stephenson Molloy of Cincinnati, Ohio, Claire E. Stephenson of Deauville, France, Christina Stephenson Roche of Brussels, Belgium and his brother Edward L. Stephenson of Palm Beach, Florida and his stepchildren Mrs.Marina Folwick of Wheeler, Wisconsin, Ivan Obolensky of Carmel, California and David I. Obolensky of Nashville, Tennessee. There will be a private service on Friday, February 9, 2007, a memorial service will follow at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to: The East End Hospice: 481 Westhampton - Riverhead Road, Westhampton Beach, NY 11978; or The Group For The South Fork, 2442 Main Street, Bridgehampton, NY 11932; or Peconic Baykeeper, PO Box 5569, Bridgehampton, NY 11932.
      