
        PACELLA--Bernard L., M.D. Born on July 25, 1912, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Died February 15, 2007, New York, New York. Dr. Bernard L. Pacella died in his sleep at age 94, after a long and distinguished career as a leader in the fields of psychiatry and psychoanalysis. Educated at the University of Colorado, Dr. Pacella received his residency training at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, a research fellowship at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, and psychoanalytic training at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. He was board certified in psychiatry, neurology, and child psychiatry, as well as certified in electroencephalography, adult psychoanalysis, and child and adolescent psychoanalysis. Early in his career, Dr. Pacella was awarded the ''Cavaliere Ufficiale 'dell' Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana,'' in the ''Science and Letters'' category. He was a fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, the American Psychiatric Association, and the American College of Psychoanalysis. Dr. Pacella participated actively in education, as a faculty member at Columbia, where he eventually became Clinical Professor Emeritus. His research findings in electroencephalography, electroconvulsive therapy, and clinical child psychiatry were published widely, and he held many positions of leadership, such as President of the Margaret S. Mahler Psychiatric Research Foundation, a member of the Board of Directors of the Sigmund Freud Archives, the Freud London Museum, and the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, and President of the American Psychoanalytic Association. He served as Director of the child and adolescent psychiatry service at Roosevelt Hospital for over 15 years. Throughout his long and productive career, he tirelessly provided mentorship to younger colleagues and his contributions to the field were widely recognized and respected. A recent example of that widely held esteem was the creation of the Bernard L. Pacella, M.D., Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Society, honoring his work with children for more than five decades. He is survived by one sister, Clara Pacella Brighton, by his four children: Dr. Karen Pacella Oldham, Richard Pacella, Esq., Mrs. Madelyn Pacella Nichols, and Dr. Bernard L. Pacella, Jr., and by seven grandchildren. Visitors are welcome between 7-9 PM on Monday, February 19, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave.
        $(6$)PACELLA--Dr. Bernard L. Dear Bernie, you were an endearing, understanding and loyal friend for over 40 years. I will miss our wide ranging and stimulating repartee. With my deepest love and admiration. Henry Balter
      