
        CAMPBELL--James R. died at home in Manhattan, on February 9, after a heroic battle with lung cancer. Beloved friend, respected colleague, treasured advisor and mentor to many. Beloved stepson of Hazel E. Campbell of Florence, Mississippi and brother of Margaret Jean Edwards of Vicksburg, Mississipi. Jim inspired all of his friends with his courage his grace under pressure during his illness. Jim was Vice President of Administration for MTA Long Island Bus Company and former Deputy Vice President of Human Resources for MTA New York City Transit. Jim was active in numerous organizations that reflected his Scottish origins. He served as Chairman of the Board of Directors, National Tartan Day New York Committee. He was the immediate past (73rd) Chief and former Board Member of the New York Caledonian Club. He was the former New York City Commissioner, Finance Committee Chairman and Trustee of the Clan Campbell Society (North America) and was a member of the Saint Andrews Society of New York State. Jim was born in Benton, Mississippi on July 16, 1941. He served in the United States Air Force in California and Japan from 1958 to 1962. Named Airman of the Year in 1961. Graduated from University of Houston 1965. Pursued post-graduate studies in behavioral sciences at Case Western Reserve University. Jim began building his 40-year career in human resources at Standard Oil, Turner Construction and The Cuyahoga Plan, all of Cleveland, Ohio. He moved East and became a permanent New Yorker in 1977. Served as Director of EEO for The Continental Group. Formed James Campbell & Associates, a human resources consulting firm. Member of The Presidents Committee on Employment of the Handicapped, 1985-1988. Achieved the highest level of professional accreditation in his chosen field through the Society of Professional Human Resources Management. He spent his life working diligently for the rights of minorities and the disadvantaged in employment, housing and public services. He strove always to be fair and kind and to have empathy with those around him. Jim was unfailingly generous with his friendship, his time and his sage counsel. He touched many lives in many different ways. He was a selfmade man and a gentleman in the true sense of the word. Already, his presence is deeply missed. A funeral service will be held at The Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, at 9:30am on Friday, February 16, 2007. In lieu of flowers, Jim requested that donations be made to a charity that assists the destitute.
      