
        HALEY--Stephen Putney, died peacefully Sunday, February 11, 2007 at his home in Summit, New Jersey, surrounded by his family and friends. The cause was melanoma; he was 52 years old. Born in Rye, New York to the late George Henry Haley and Anne Coleman Haley, Stephen graduated from the Harvey School, Brooks School in North Andover, Massa chusetts, and Franklin and Marshall College. Stephen had a distinguished career working in the Financial Services Industry, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch among others. His most recent position was at Citigroup where he was a Managing Director, and Chief of Operations for Alternative Investments. Stephen was an avid golfer and wine collector and enthusiast. He loved the thrill of scouting out California vineyards and vintages, but his real pleasure was sharing his collection with friends and loved ones. He was devoted to his wife and children. His happiest times were always with his family, sharing a meal, or relaxing at their summer home in Quoque. He was a man of great sincerity and strength with an exceptional wit and unending love of family. Stephen and his family moved to Summit in 1997. He was a member of Canoe Brook Country Club, Calvary Episcopal Church and was involved in numerous charitable and civic organizations. He was also a Board Member of the United States Olympic Committee and Treasurer of the Men's Field Hockey Association. Stephen leaves behind his beloved wife of 27 years, Adele M. (Veri) and two children, Margaret Coleman (Molly) and Andrew Coleman; his brothers, George H. Haley of Rowayton, CT, and Edward C. Haley of Charlotte, NC; and his sister, Anne Haley Enright of New York, NY. Visitation will be at the William R. Dangler Funeral Home, 309 Springfield Avenue, Summit, NJ from 4-7 pm on Thursday, February 15, 2007 at 11 am at Calvary Episcopal Church, 31 Woodland Avenue, Summit, NJ. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in Stephen's memory to Calvary Episcopal Church or Camphill Soltane, 224 Nantmeal Road, Glenmoore, PA 19343.
      