
        LUTZ--Queva Jayne, died on Thursday, February 22nd at her home in New York City, surrounded by her family and close friends. Queva was unique in the way she led her life. She enjoyed it immensely, as did those with whom she shared it. Whether at her home of 30 years, her famous Randalls Island picnics of 25 years, in the businesses she built or in the many opportunities that presented themselves throughout life, Queva lived to open doors for other people and to bring people together. In life, her energy to accomplish this knew no end, and now that she is gone, so many of the bonds she created remain. Born in Harlingen, Texas, Queva left home at age 16, had her only child at age 19 and moved to California where she owned the Tides Bookstore in Sausalito before coming to New York City in 1977. As a real estate developer since 1981, she owned and developed residential and commercial buildings, mainly in Harlem, Tribeca and Hudson Square. She recently completed the successful conversion and redevelopment of the former Hale House on Central Park North into a luxury condominium. Quevas 55 Bar is a prohibition-era jazz club at 55 Christopher Street, which was founded in 1919 and has been in continuous operation since. Over the years, she created a gathering place for many of the worlds great jazz and blues musicians and for many other musicians you have not yet heard of. ''We are all in this together -musicians, club owner, staff, customers'' she said. ''We all have to work to keep this music alive, vibrant and evolving.'' At the 55, Queva created a casual, intimate environment where musicians can stretch and explore new material. Queva is survived by her son Scott Ellard, his wife Beth and their children Aerin and Nicholson; by her mother Nickie, her brother Jess and his wife Janie; and the family of friends she created throughout her life. A memorial service will be held at St Peters Lutheran Church noted for its Jazz Ministry, in early March. See stpeters.org for details. No flowers please. The family will establish a non-profit organization to honor Queva. Condolences and reminiscences welcomed at queva@55Bar.com. Queva, we love you and will miss you forever. You were one-of-akind.
      