
        MOSES--Campbell, M.D., Former Medical Director of the American Heart Association, noted medical researcher and professor of medical education, died February 11, at his home in Upper Saddle River, NJ, one day prior to his 90th birthday. Dr. Moses was a gifted teacher of medicine, committed to improving public health. He is survived by his wife, Lucille Burkhart Moses, of Spring Lake, NJ, and brother, the Reverend Donald Moses, of Minnesota. In addition, he is survived by his three sons, Campbell W. Moses, of Upper Saddle River, NJ, James Moses, of Somerset, PA, Robert Moses, of Delancey, NY, and daughter, Ann Moses Brown, of Harrington Park, NJ, from his marriage to Lois Haseltine Moses, who predeceased him following 53 years of marriage. He was the proud and loving grandfather of 12 and great grandfather of 11. His medical career began 1941, at the University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine, an association lasting to 1967. He was an educator, author of Atherosclerosis: Mechanisms as a Guide to Prevention and an expert in the field of vascular disease. He conducted innovative research as director of the Addison H. Gibson Laboratory, 1948-1967. He also conducted early research in the field of nuclear medicine, in association with the Sarah H. Mellon-Scaife Cyclotron Laboratory, 1948-1958. During his years at the University, he worked with Dr. Jonas Salk, through the clinical trials leading to the establishment of the Salk polio vaccine and also enjoyed working with his cousin, Dr. Nils Jerne, a Nobel Prize winner in medicine. As a life-long medical educator, he pioneered the use of television for medical education. As Senior Vice President, Medicus Communications, he established an interactive video disc network used at 300 teaching hospitals. As Medical Director of the American Heart Association, he led efforts against the effects of cigarette smoking and conducted public education on the role of fatty acids and cholesterol in the development of cardiovascular disease. Contributions can be made to the Childrens Aid Society of New York, 105 E. 22nd Street, New York, NY 10010. (childrensaidsociety.org). Services by the Anthony R. Pizzi Funeral Home, Northvale, NJ, (201-767-3050).
        $(6$)MOSES--Campbell, M.D., The Board of Trustees of The Children's Aid Society extends heartfelt condolences to our Chief Executive Officer, C. Warren Pete Moses and his family on the passing of his father, Dr. Campbell Moses. Dr. Moses was a wonderful father and loving family man as well as a gifted medical educator and a leader in the field of public health. His lifelong dedication to the public good is clearly something he has passed along to his son. We join his family in mourning his passing. Edgar Koerner, Chairman of the Board Angela Diaz, M.D., M.P.H., President
      