
        NESSEL--Melvin B., a prominent businessman and philanthropist, died on February 15, 2007. He lived in Palm Beach and Boston. His death came after a series of health issues, including respiratory problems. Born in Gainesville, Georgia on August 24, 1919, the trajectory of Mel's life was worthy of the best Horatio Alger story. Mel began his business career as a chemical salesman in Atlanta. He moved to Boston in the 1940s, and along with his longterm business partner and close friend, Al Sandler, started the Fenton Shoe Corporation in Cambridge. He built the company into one of the largest and most successful shoe manufacturing companies in America. In the early sixties, he was one of the first to recognize the opportunity to expand his business by importing shoes, initially from Italy but later from Spain and Brazil. In 1972, he was one of an elite group of businessmen to travel to China to open trade after decades of estrangement. Mel made major charitable gifts to the Massachusetts General Hospital, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Brandeis University, the Norton Museum of Art, the Heritage Society of the Jewish Federation in Palm Beach County, the Kravis Center in West Palm Beach, and the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Among other honors, Mel received the American Jewish Committee National Human Relations Award. Mel was most proud of his leadership role in the growth of the 210 Footwear Foundation, an international organization committed to the well being of people in the shoe industry. He was a past President of the organization and played a key leadership role in contributing and raising funds to help establish the Foundation's first home in Watertown, Massachusetts. In the following years he was a tireless supporter of the charity's growth and programmatic outreach. After moving to Palm Beach, he served as a Trustee of the Norton Museum of Art, belonged to its Diana Society, and donated an important collection to its galleries. Barbara K. Bunny Nessel, Mels first wife, predeceased him in 1999. Mel is survived by his wife, Gail Nessel, his son, John Nessel, his daughter-inlaw, Mary Nessel, his grandsons, Alex Warren Nessel and Aaron Jeffrey Nessel, his nephew, Michael Lieb, and wife, Jessica, and children, Stephanie and Jeffrey, and his nephew, Robert Lieb, and wife Mary Ann and children, Sean and Juliann, and the Weitz family in Atlanta. Mel's daughter, Wendy, died in 1978. Mel was a member of the Palm Beach Country Club and the Belmont Country Club. Services will be held at 1:30 pm on Friday, February 16, at Temple Israel, 477 Longwood Avenue, Boston. Burial will be at Temple Israel Cemetery in Wakefield. Memorial observance Friday only at his late residence. In lieu of flowers, remembrances may be made to the Melvin B. & Barbara K. Nessel Fund, Massachusetts General Hospital, 165 Cambridge Street, Suite 600, Boston, MA 02114, or a charity of one's choice.
      