
        KRASNOFF -Abraham Long Island University and its Tilles Center mourn the passing of former University Chairman of the Board, Abe Krasnoff. A steadfast and caring leader, and a generous benefactor, his commitment to and appreciation for higher education were hallmarks of his service to this institution. As a Long Island University honorary degree recipient, he was recognized for his dedication to our mission of Access and Excellence. During the time he so ably served as Chairman of the Board, many thousands of students were enabled to pursue their dreams by earning their degrees. We have been well led and have been given a legacy of leadership and generosity to follow. Thank you Abe. Edward Travaglianti, Chairman of the Board David J. Steinberg, President
        $(6$)KRASNOFF--Abraham of Glen Cove, NY on February 2, 2007. Beloved husband of Julienne. Loving father of Eric (Robin). Cherished grandfather of Teal and Alison (Diane) and Keri and Molly. Dear brother of the late Al. Visiting Monday 2-4 and 79pm Whitting Funeral Home 300 Glen Cove Ave., Glen Head, NY. A Memorial Service will be held Tuesday at 12pm at the chapel at Long Island University's C.W. Post campus, Brookville, NY. Interment Private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Long Island Community Foundation, 1740 Old Jericho Turnpike, Jericho, NY 11753.
        $(6$)KRASNOFF--Abraham. The staff and trustees of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System are greatly saddened by the death of Abraham Krasnoff of Glen Cove, a long-time board member, and former president and CEO and chairman of the Pall Corporation in East Hills, NY. An intelligent, generous and kind individual with unending wisdom and compassion, Mr. Krasnoff left an indelible mark on the North Shore-LIJ Health System. Originally a board member with Community Hospital at Glen Cove, he worked diligently to bring the hospital together with North Shore University Hospital in 1990; as a trustee of the North Shore Health System, he helped pave the way for its merger with LIJ Medical Center in 1997, creating the North Shore-LIJ Health System. With a warm and gentle approach, Mr. Krasnoff had an extraordinary ability to inspire others to seek excellence and bring people together to address key issues. One issue that he was deeply committed to was strengthening the quality of healthcare. His insistence on establishing quality-of-care benchmarks at all North Shore-LIJ hospitals has enabled the health system to earn national recognition for its healthcare quality management program. Through his leadership and generosity, North Shore-LIJ created the Krasnoff Institute for Quality Management in 2005, leaving a legacy that will endure for years to come. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Saul Katz Michael Dowling Chairman President & CEO
      