
        FEINBERG--Ceil. ABS Partners Real Estate extend our most genuine and sincere sympathies to David and Michael Feinberg and family on the passing of their beloved mother and grandmother, Ceil Feinberg. Ceil was a woman of great wisdom and understanding, a woman of true grace and valor. Earle S. Altman, Gregg Schenker, Steven Hornstock, and Company
        $(6$)FEINBERG--Ceil. To beloved aunt Ceil. You brought love and happiness to our lives. You'll be with us forever. Morty and Sandy Porwick
        $(6$)FEINBERG--Ceil. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Ceil Feinberg, a dedicated philanthropist and cherished friend, who shared a deep devotion to the Jewish community with her late husband, Peter. Together, they inspired their family through their extraordinary leadership and generosity. Their love for Jewish culture and their concern for the welfare of the Jewish people live on through the exceptional efforts of their children. We extend our heartfelt condolences to their beloved sons David, and his wife, Carol; and Michael and his wife, Ann; and the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)FEINBERG--Ceil. Died peacefully at her home in Palm Beach on February 12. Born in Russia, she came to this country at the age of eight and created an extraordinary life with her late husband Peter. She is survived by loving sons David and Michael, devoted daughters-in-law Carol and Ann, cherished grandchildren Jenny, Valerie, Daniel, Joel and Alisha, her great-grandchildren Claire, Sarah, Helaina, and Peter, and her niece Sharon and nephew Morton. Shiva will be on Thursday from 11am to 4pm at 880 Fifth Avenue.
        $(6$)FEINBERG--Ceil. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President
      