
        PACELLA--Bernard L. M.D. The Pacella Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourns the loss of Bernard L. Pacella, M.D., in whose honor the Center is named through the generosity of an anonymous benefactor. Helping children has been the most significant part of Dr. Pacella's career as a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. He was particularly interested in the applicability of Margaret Mahler's ideas of separationindividuation in children and adults. Many of these ideas continue to be applied at the Pacella Parent Child Center. We extend our deepest condolences to his sister, his children, and his grandchildren. Leon Hoffman, M.D., Director Alice Rosenman, M.S., CSW, Program Coordinator
        PACELLA--Bernard L., M.D., The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Bernard L. Pacella, M.D. His expertise ranged from adult, child, and adolescent, Psycho analysis to electroencephalography. He was a former President of our society and President of the American Psychoanalytic Association. Bernie was an unpretentious, plain spoken man, who could reach people's hearts as well as their minds. He was a yachtsman, and has sailed away. We will miss him. Paul Rosenbaum, M.D., President Philip Herschenfeld, M.D., Dean
        PACELLA--Bernard, M.D. The Psychoanalytic Re search and Development Fund, Inc. notes with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, past President and Treasurer, Bernard Pacella, M.D. We extend our sympathy and condolences to his family. Harold Blum, M.D., President Peter Neubauer, M.D., Vice President Henry Nunberg, M.D., Professional Director
        PACELLA--Bernard L., Dr. The officers and Trustees of the Sigmund Freud Archives deeply mourn the loss of their distinguished former Secretary Treasurer, Dr. Bernard L. Pacella, who died February 15, 2007. We extend our sympathy and condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. Harold P. Blum, Executive Director Eugene Halpert, President John M. Ross, Secretary Treasurer
        PACELLA -- Bernard, M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Bernard Pacella. We send our condolences to his four children: Karen, Richard, Madelyn and Bernard, and his seven grandchildren. Robert A. Glick, M.D. Director Lila Kalinich, M.D. President, APM
      