
        VAN NORSTRAND--Julia Eaton. Surrounded by family, passed away peacefully at her home in New York City on February 5th. She was 82 years old. Known to family and friends as Judy, she had a full and happy life that began with a fashion career in the 1940s and 50s for such famous designers as Adrian and Irenen of Hollywood. In 1953 she married M. Abbott Van Nostrand in Paris. Abbott, who predeceased her was the President of Samuel French, Inc., the largest Theatrical Play publisher and author's Representative in the English-speaking world (representing such playwrights as Neil Simon, Tom Stoppard, Alan Ayckbourn and Thornton Wilder). During their lives, Judy and Abbott were frequently sited at Broadway opening night as well as The Stork Club, 21 and many charity benefits. Judy raised her family in Forest Hills Gardens, NY, where she was a founding member of the Village Improvement Society, before moving to Manhattan in the late 1970s. A dedicated volunteer, Judy devoted over 50 years to The Lighthouse International for the blind raising millions of dollars to support scholarship and career awards programs. A great lover of beauty, Judy expressed her artistic talents through the ''art of the painted finish''. A student of the renowned authority, Isabel O'Neil, Judy was instrumental in establishing the Isabel O'Neil Studio Workshop and Foundation that continues today. Those of us who love her will remember Judy saying, ''I've had a great life''. She is survived by daughters, Randall and Abbie Van Norstrand, step daughters Patricia Hacker and Pamela Newton, 13 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. Visitation is at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st and Madison Avenue, Thursday, February 8th from 4:00pm to 8:00pm. Funeral services will be held on February 9th, 11 am at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church with private burial to follow. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to The Lighthouse, International and/or Isabel O'Neil Foundation.
      