
        FARLEY--James B. (Jim) died peacefully after a prolonged illness in Gulf Stream, Florida on January 20, 2007. Jim was a charismatic and highly revered leader, a loving husband, a great father, a friend to many and an avid golfer. He will be missed. Jim was born on November 1, 1930 in Pittsburgh, PA where he attended Duquesne University (BS) and Case Western Reserve University (MBA) and spent the first 10 years of his career at US Steel. The next chapter in his career was a highly successful 25 years in consulting with Booz, Allen & Hamilton where he made major contributions as he progressed up the ranks to Chairman and CEO. In 1988 Jim joined MONY Life insurance Company where he held the position of Chairman and CEO until 1993 and retained a seat on the Board until 2003. He also was on the Board of Directors for Harrahs Entertainment, Ashland Oil, Inc., First Boston Corp., Crum and Forster Foundation, and Holiday Corp. He was also a Trustee for the Congressional Committee for Economic Development and The Conference Board and was an Ellis Island Honoree as one of 100 Outstanding Americans. A Research chair was established in his honor by Booz, Allen, & Hamilton at the JL Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. He was the beloved husband of Mary W. Farley, who survives him; the father of James Farley, Mickey Farley-Austin, Connie O'Connor, and Scott Farley; the father-in-law of Julia Farley, Robin Austin, Tim O'Connor, and Susan Farley; the grandfather of Conor Farley, Katie O'Connor, Erin Farley, Kelly O'Connor, Jamie Austin, Michael O'Connor, Sean O'Connor and Patrick Farley; the brother of Bernie Carroll, Roseanne Sansoni; the brother-in-law to Darlene and Andy Hallam and uncle to many nieces and nephews. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated on Friday, February 9 at 11:00 a.m. at St Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church, 840 George Bush Blvd. in Delray Beach, FL 33483. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to: Bethesda Memorial Hospital Heart Institute, 2815 South Seacrest Blvd. in Boynton Beach, FL, 33435. Lorne & Sons Funeral Home, Delray Beach, Florida.
      