
        SELLA--Aviva, 80, died tragically and suddenly on March 10, 2007, as a result of a fire in her apartment. Born on May 1, 1926, in Palestine, Aviva was the eldest daughter of Abba and Rachel Freidis. Aviva was a member of the Palmach which fought for Israeli independence, and she remained in close contact with her friends from those times throughout her life. Shortly after her Palmach service, she married Emmanuel Sella. They settled in the United States and raised four children. She embraced her new life in New York City, and felt truly at home there. When her children were grown, Aviva completed her college degree and, with great tenacity and a zeal for learning, attained her doctorate from New York University in Middle East Studies. Aviva was extremely politically engaged and was very passionate about her positions, including opposing the war in Iraq and yearning for peace in Israel and Palestine. Aviva had so many varied and deep interests: she loved going to the ballet, concerts, and plays; studying French, Russian, and Arabic; avidly reading the New York Times, and enjoying Leonidas chocolates. A longtime, devoted supporter of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, not only did she enjoy their performances, she continued to take weekly dance classes at their school, often with students nearly 60 years younger than she, to their mutual delight. Her most recent years were especially filled with joy from her five grandchildren, and she loved to hear of their many adventures and milestones. Aviva was predeceased by her husband Emmanuel and her sister Dita. She is survived by her children Ephraim, Gideon, Shelley, and Carmel and her grandchildren Omar, NoahLani, William, Max, and Jacob. She will be greatly missed by her family and her many beloved friends. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation, 405 W. 55th Street, N.Y., N.Y. 10019. A memorial service will take place at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, on Tuesday March 13 at 11:30 a.m.
      