
        GELBER--Joseph. You'll be in our hearts forever. Margie, our thoughts are with you. Bunny and Teddy
        GELBER--Joseph. Guiseppe, your love of life and commitment to helping others is a legacy you leave for all of us to cherish. We will never forget all of our great times. Barbara and Bernie
        GELBER--Joseph, Friar. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friar's Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Friar Joe Gelber. His loyalty and dedication to the Friar's Club will be deeply cherished. His untiring efforts to raise money for the Friar's Sunshine Committee were unsurpassed. We will miss his gentle nudges to buy raffle tickets so senior citizens can enjoy entertainment and underprivileged children can enjoy a movie or a day with clowns and laughter. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this charitable soul. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue. Tuesday March 27, at 11:45 am. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Stewie Stone, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        GELBER--Joseph. Consummate New Yorker, devoted husband to Marge, best friend to many, garment center legend, ultimate fundraiser for many causes, reknowned member of the Friars Club. We are blessed to have known you. We greatly admire Marge for her loving care and devotion to Joe over the years. Marilyn and Harold Siegel Nina and Gary Madison Laura and Mitchell Cassel
        GELBER--Joseph. A dog's best friend is her man, (Joe). I'll miss you. Gigi
        GELBER--Joseph. Everyone who crossed your path was blessed to know your kind smile, your gracious thoughts and sentiments and your unwavering generosity of spirit. Your impact on the lives of others is unmeasurable. With your beautiful Marge by your side, a golden light was always shining. With love, Melissa Fields
        GELBER--Joseph, on March 24, 2007. Devoted son of the late Bertha and Ben, beloved husband of Marge, adored brother of Sam and the late Sol, Mary Rosenberg and Sylvia Katz, dear brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle and friend. His was a life well lived. He will be missed by all who knew him. Service Tuesday 11:45 am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St at Amsterdam Ave.
        GELBER--Joseph. Richmond Children's Foundation is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. He will be missed by all for his generosity and ongoing dedication to the people we support. We extend our sympathy to his devoted wife Marge. Edward Spauster, Pres/CEO Carol Baron, Devel Dir
        GELBER--Joe. Our hearts go out to Margie at the loss of her beloved husband and to the family as they mourn the passing of a great man, a true gent and a loyal friend, especially to our own dear Norman. With deepest sympathies. The Buchbinder Family
        GELBER--Joe. Joe you were a true compassionate friend. Thank you for great times with Kenny and Margie in East Moriches and at the Friar's and understanding my love of nova. Your great heart, generosity and dedicated friendship were an inspiration. We miss you. Chris and Pippa
      