
        PRINCE--Robert (Bob), May 10, 1929 to March 4, 2007. Beloved husband of 57 years to wife, Arline Bleier Prince, loving father of Diane Prince of Chico, California and William Prince of Berkeley, California. Grandfather to Jenny Wren, Asher, and Benjamin, and great grandfather of Max Edgar, died after a brief illness at UCLA on Sunday night. Bob was born and raised in New York City, graduated from Julliard where he studied with Saul Goodman and Robert Ward. He was a prolific producer, composer and arranger collaborating with Aram Avakian at Decca and Columbia Records. Early successes with Saxes Inc. and record hits with Johnny Mathis and Paul Desmond, Prince's career advanced with international success from his score for Jerome Robbins' Ballet USA Opus Jazz which was recently revived to the regular repertoire of the New York City Ballet. Robbins and Prince continued to work on and off Broadway together and built an endearing friendship. Moving his family to Los Angeles, Prince composed scores for all the major studios for both feature film and television. As a regular on the Universal lot, producers and musicians on his recording dates would routinely thank him for writing particular cues, for they knew that while Bob not only wrote intellectually challenging scores for screenplays, he also captured the soloist's musical personalities and styles in his scores. His theater work continued in Los Angeles with commissions by the Center Theater Group at the Ahmanson Theater. Wherever Bob's career traveled, he always picked up bass players as lifelong friends. His love for their artistry lasted his lifetime, and his affection for Milt Hinton, George Duvivier, and Ray Brown deserves mention here. Bob spent the past 24 spring and summers in Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard where he was loved by his neighbors and tennis partners. Challenging players 20 years his junior, Bob was always a true gentlemen on and off the court. Letter of condolences and wishes can be sent to: wmlprince@yahoo.com
      