
        ZISES--Ruth. The board and staff of Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sorrow the death of Ruth Zises, mother of our good friend Seymour Zises, and mother-in-law of Cathy, a valued trustee of our agency. Seymour and Cathy have been generous supporters and advocates of JBFCS for many years. We extend sincere condolences to them, to their children, and to the entire Zises family. John A Herrmann, President Jean Troubh & Joseph Kaplan Co-Chairs of the Board Alan B. Siskind,Ph.D Exec. V.P. & CEO Paul Levine, Assoc. Exec .V.P. $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. The Coller family mourns the passing of our dear Aunt Ruth. We will always cherish her embracing warmth, generosity, gentle good humor, and loving devotion to five generations of our family. To be under her wing was to be in a very secure and special place. We hold fast to our beautiful memories, including Aunt Ruth under that big tree, joyfully providing fruit, cookies, wisdom, and love, all with a beaming smile. After a brief separation, the two Ruths are now reunited. Our hearts and love go out to the entire Zises family. $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. More than family, more than a best friend, an irreplaceable loss for the rest of my days. Thank you for every moment of joy and help. I love you forever. Bunny $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. To the Zises family, our thoughts and prayers are with you. Love the Kiev family $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses condolences to our dear and esteemed friends, Bernard, Sig, Jay, and Seymour Zises, on the passing of their beloved wife and mother, Ruth. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and pray that the entire Zises family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Harold Tanner, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman $(6$)ZISES--Ruth, We extend our deepest sympathy to the Zises family. Ruth was a great role model for being the most devoted and loving wife, mother, grandmother and friend. We have wonderful personal memories of her warmth and kindness. She was a great lady. Love Hedy and Arthur $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. Your great example will live forever in the hearts and memories of your many friends and loving family. Love Lauren and Steven $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. The Yeshiva University family extends profound condolences to Jay, Selig, and Seymour Zises,YU Benefactors, and their families, on the passing of their beloved mother, Ruth. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
      