
        TENNEY--Dr. Lillian Baum, M.D., died February 23rd at home in Princeton, New Jersey. She was 85. A memorial service will be held at the Princeton University Chapel Saturday, March 17th, at 1:00 pm followed by a reception at the Prospect House on the Princeton University campus. The youngest of three daughters, Dr. Tenney was born in 1921, in the Bronx, New York. Her parents, Fanny and David, met in this country after emigrating from Poland. Dr. Tenney graduated two years ahead of her class at Walton High School, enrolled in Hunter College for a year, and went on to obtain her undergraduate degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1943. She earned her M.D. from the University of Rochester in 1949 (where she was one of only twelve women in the class), followed by four residencies at Rochester's Strong Memorial Hospital in pediatrics, adult psychiatry, child psychiatry, and obstetrics. An extremely driven and enterprising young woman she paid her own way through college by juggling a 40-hour work week split between three different jobs with her academic classes. Prior to medical school she worked as a waitress on Cape Cod and for two years as a medical technician traveling throughout New England. While in Boston she met her future husband, Frederick H. Tenney, and upon the completion of his Ph.D. in physics at Rochester and her medical residencies, the couple moved to Princeton in 1953. Dr. Tenney's husband taught at Princeton University and then worked as a research physicist at the University's Plasma Physics Lab until his death in 1984. Dr. Tenney delayed practicing for 15 years to raise four children with her husband. In 1968, once her children were old enough, she re-established her board certification and began an extensive private practice specializing in child, adolescent, and adult psychiatry. Her practice flourished. Dr. Tenney was also clinical professor of psychiatry at Rutgers where for years she was chief psychiatrist at the Willets Student Health Center. Her other professional accomplish ments were manifold and included work as a psychiatrist at the Mercer County Child Guidance Clinic, the Princeton Neuropsychiatric Institute, and for the Lawrenceville Public School system. She was often sought as an expert witness in court cases and for many years taught and trained medical students from The Robert Wood Johnson School of Medicine and Dentistry in psychiatric interviewing at Princeton House. The waiting list of patients wishing to see her was perpetual and extensive, even to her final days, and she maintained an active practice until illness forced her to suspend it in the Spring of 2006. In addition to her medical practice, Dr. Tenney maintained active membership in dozens of peace-based and humanitarian organizations. Her thirst for knowledge and her need to act on her social conscience were unquenchable. In the 1960s she and her husband co-founded the Ethical Culture Fellowship of Princeton. She loved and adopted animals throughout her life, was a gifted gardener, wonderful cook, and enthusiastic skier and dancer. She was highly respected among her peers and was often sought out for advice. She was a supremely devoted, loving, and nurturing wife, mother, and grandmother. She is survived by her four children: Steven, David, Susan, and Jon; her daughter-in-law Marie-Diane Tenney, her son-in-law Hal Diamond; her four grandchildren: Danny, Emerson, Oliver, and Genevieve; and her two step-grandchildren: Michael and Allison. Donations in Dr. Tenneys name can be made to Doctors without Borders, an organization of which she was particularly fond.
      