
        CHILDS--Daniel R. The Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourn the passing of Daniel R. Childs. He was a Trustee of the Whitney Museum from 1975 to 1980. His many contributions to the art world will not be forgotten. We extend condolences to his entire family. Adam D. Weinberg, Alice Pratt Brown Director, Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President
        CHILDS--Daniel Robbins, age 71, of Noroton, CT and Nantucket, MA, died Sunday, March 4th, while on vacation on Grand Cayman Island. He was born in New York City on August 20, 1935, to the late Alixandra Hitchcock Childs and Frederick Robbins Childs. He attended The Allen-Stevenson School, The New Canaan Country School, The Portsmouth Abbey School, Harvard College, and Harvard Business School, where he graduated as a George Baker Scholar. He worked at Morgan Stanley and was a Partner at Willam A.M. Burden & Co., a private investment firm located in New York City. He served on the Boards of The New Canaan Country School, The Portsmouth Abbey School, The New York Botanical Garden, and The Whitney Museum of Art. He married Margaret Burden in 1955 and is survived by: Margaret B. Childs, his brother Nicholas Childs, sister - in - law An dromeada Childs, nephew Daniel K. Childs and his seven children and their spouses, Frederick and Beatrice Childs, Cambridge MA, Nicholas and Jean Childs, Byfield, MA, Florence and Donald MacDonald, Rumson, NJ, Constance Rosengarten, New York, NY, Shirley and Christopher Kelly, Wellesley, MA, Hilary and Kay Childs, Stamford, CT, and Alexandra and Malachy McKee, Dungannon, Country Tyrone, Northern Ireland as well as his 22 grandchildren and extended family. Besides his parents, Mr. Childs was predeceased by his brothers Alexander and Jeffrey and his granddaughter Niamh Louise McKee. Dan was an avid cook, angler, gardener, and photographer. His warm and welcoming home had many sumptuous, large, boisterous meals. He served many people and organizations with his time, energy, and generosity. Visitation will be at the Lawrence Funeral Home, Darien, CT on Friday, March 9th from 4:00 to 8:00 pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered on Saturday, March 10th at 11:00 am at Saint John's Church in Darien, CT. Interment immediately to follow at the Lakeview Cemetery, South Main Street, New Canaan, CT. A reception following the Mass will be held at 173 Long Neck Point Road, Noroton, CT. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Daniel R. Childs Memorial Fun at The Portsmouth Abbey School, 285 Cory's Lane, Portsmouth, RI 02871.
      