
        KAYE--Walter, 79, passed away on March 8, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 22, 1927. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving father of Steven and Russell and proud grandfather of Lauren and Jason. Mr. Kaye originated the concept of refactoring and founded Merchant Factors Corp., the first company to offer this service. Merchant brought him great satisfaction by enabling him to advise and help build new businesses. He will be deeply missed by his family and many friends. Funeral services to be held Sunday, March 11, at 12:00 noon at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1652 Central Park Ave., Yonkers, NY. Donations in his name may be made to any charity that feeds the hungry.
        $(6$)KAYE--Walter. Wally, we'll miss our friendship and shared good times of many years. Our heartfelt sympathy to Bernice and your family. Janet and Robert Paul
        $(6$)KAYE--Walter. The staff of Merchant Factors Corp., Merchant Financial Corporation and Summit Business Credit, Inc. mourns the passing of their beloved mentor, President, CEO and friend, Walter Kaye. Walter had always considered his staff as an extension of his family and we in turn admired and respected him. He had the rare combination of being a strong and savvy businessman along with showing compassion and generosity to all. He will be sorely missed. Our sincerest condolences go out to his wife, Bernice; his sons, Steven and Russell and their families. We, his staff, are committed to keeping Walter's legacy alive. The business he created over 20 years ago will continue to flourish in his honor and memory.
        $(6$)KAYE--Walter. Wonderful friend and neighbor. We enjoyed many memorable joyous times with Walter and his wife Bernice. We will miss our friend. His passing leaves a void in our lives. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved Bernice and family. Florence Gardner Herbert Isaacs
        $(6$)KAYE--Walter. I want to express my deepest sympathy to Bernice, Steven, Russell and the entire Kaye family on the passing of Walter Kaye. He will always have a special place in my heart and his many lessons will be with me for the rest of my life. Love, Adam
        $(6$)KAYE--Walter. We would like to extend our sincere condolences to Bernice Kaye, Steven Kaye, Russell Kaye and their families on the loss of Walter Kaye. We will miss him always. Neville & Velma Grusd
      