
        LEFKOWITZ--Howard N. The attorneys and staff of Proskauer Rose, LLP, mourn the passing of Howard N. Lefkowitz, a senior partner in Proskauer's Corporate Department. We have lost not only a colleague and a friend but also a lawyer's lawyer who was known for his scholarship and pioneering spirit. In the 43 years Howard worked at Proskauer, he developed an impressive and diverse practice. A visionary in the emerging field of private equity, which would evolve into one of the firm's most active practice areas, he represented institutional investors-including Verizon, JPMorgan and others-in their investments in private equity funds that totaled in the billions. Nationally recognized for his work in partnership and limited liability company law, Howard authored the New York Limited Liability Company Forms and Practice Manual and co-authored Transactional Lawyers Deskbook: Advising Business Entities. He had extensive experience with alternative investment vehicles, and he lectured frequently on limited partnerships, limited liability companies and fiduciary obligations. In 2006, the American Bar Association presented Howard with the Martin I. Lubaroff Award in recognition of his work on partnership law. Howard, known for his love of the law, was a tremendous resource to his colleagues, who relied on his deep knowledge, particularly of New York law and Delaware partnership issues. As his friend and colleague Bruce Lieb remembers, Howard knew the answers to questions that many of us did not realize were questions. Howard retired in 2006 but continued to practice. He spoke and wrote frequently, and he contributed his professional time to organizations including the Private Investment Fund Forum, the ABA and the TriBar Opinion Committee. An expert on wine as well as the law, Howard enjoyed an extensive wine collection and contributed articles to food and wine magazines. Howard received his B.A. from Cornell University and his law degree from Columbia University Law School, where he was a Kent Scholar and an editor of the Columbia Law Review. Howard, who is survived by his wife, Midge, his two children and five grandchildren, will be greatly missed and affectionately remembered. Allen I. Fagin Chair, Proskauer Rose
        $(6$)LEFKOWITZ--Howard N., 70, born and raised in Utica, NY, now of New York City and Great Barrington, MA, died on March 12 of multiple myeloma. Survived by wife Midge; daughter Sarah and husband Ted; son David and wife Laurie; grandchildren Alex, Zachary, Adam, Anna Kate, and Talia; brother Manny and sisters Betty and Elinor; many nieces and nephews, and by a wonderful extended Sitrin family. Howard graduated Cornell University where he met Midge. Served as an officer in the US Navy in the destroyer fleet at Newport, RI, and graduated from Columbia Law School, where he became an editor of the Law Review and a Kent Scholar. Howard practiced corporate and partnership law at Proskauer, Rose, Goetz and Mendelsohn (now Proskauer Rose) his entire career of over 40 years, retiring as a senior partner in 2005. He enjoyed active participation in the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the ABA Section of Business Law Parnership Committee, the Tri-Bar Opinion Committee, and the Private Investment Fund Forum. He insisted that his avid interest in, and consumption of fine wine did not hasten his demise. Funeral Wednesday, 12 noon, at Gramercy Chapel, 152 Second Ave. at 9th Street. Contributions to Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, 383 Main Ave, Norwalk, CT 08651, would be appreciated.
      