
        SORKIN--Rosalie. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Rosalie Sorkin, a loving parent and humanitarian devoted to Israel, the Jewish people and the cause of higher education. AFHU Guardians, Rosalie and Nat (z''l) Sorkin were committed to the well being of HU students on scholarship. We extend our deepest condolences to Ike and Ellen Sorkin and the entire Sorkin family. May they find comfort in the care of friends and among the mourners of the house of Zion. American Friends of The Hebrew University George A. Schieren, President Peter T. Willner, National Executive Director The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        $(6$)SORKIN--Rosalie, 92, of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Nat, beloved mother of Ira and Joel, beloved mother-in-law of Ellen, beloved grandmother of Roger, his wife Eva and Peter, beloved great-grandmother of Alina Natalia. A wonderful and caring mother and wife whose joy of life was enhanced by her grandchildren and her great-granddaughter. A member of the choir at Community Synagogue in Port Washington, NY, and a founder with her husband, of Temple Judea in Manhasset, NY. A funeral service will be held at Mount Ararat Cemetery in Farmingdale, NY, on Sunday, March 11th at 11am. Shiva will be at the home of Ira Sorkin, 10 Vanad Drive, East Hills, NY, on Sunday, March 11 from 2pm to 9pm and Monday, March 12 from 12pm to 9pm. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Friends of the Hebrew University, 1 Battery Park Plaza, 25th floor, NY, NY 10004.
        $(6$)SORKIN--Rosalie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Rosalie Sorkin, beloved mother of Ira Sorkin, whose deep commitment has enabled us to enrich the Jewish community worldwide. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Ellen and Ira, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      