
        HILLER--Frederic, beloved husband of Catherine Hiller, passed away on March 7, 2007, at age 91. Fred was born on October 20, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Forced by the Depression to leave high school in order to support his family, he became, on his father's death, the sole provider for his mother and three younger siblings. During WWII he worked as a ship welder and later served in the Merchant Marines. After the War Fred founded and built a thriving business in the clothing industry as one of the industry's first jobbers, retiring at age 73. A fashionable and understated dresser, Fred kept fit and trim through disciplined exercise and diet, forgoing golf, tennis and other athletic pursuits in favor of a passion for reading and painting. Though lacking formal education he is remembered for his keen intelligence, sharp wit and dry humor, voracious reading and travel worldwide. Throughout his life he demonstrated remarkable generosity to his family and friends. His love and support were unqualified and unstinting. His sense of humor and uncanny memory were legendary, as was his grace and flare on the dance floor. In old age and throughout his last illness he displayed the same qualities of kindness, humor, and even disposition. He is survived by his loving wife of 68 years, Catherine, his sons Lee and Richard, his daughters-in-law Bonnie and Marsha, his grandchildren Lauren, Ruth, Michael, Oliver and Caleb, their spouses Phil, David, Cara and Maya, greatgrandchildren Molly, Sarah, Simon, Naomi and Joshua, his brother and sister, many nieces and nephews and dear friends. He leaves all who knew him with years of wonderful and vibrant memories, and will be sorely missed by all who loved him. Fred is simply irreplaceable. Services at Schwartz Brothers Funeral Home (718-263-7600), Forest Hills, NY, Sunday, March 11 at 10am. Interment at Montefiore Cemetery in Queens, NY. Shiva will be held at the home of Catherine Hiller, Floral Park, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Frederic and Catherine Hiller Scholarship Fund of the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 55 East 59th Street New York, NY 10022 info@ats.org and Donors Choose, 347 West 36th Street, Suite 503, New York, NY 10018 national@donorschoose.org.
      