
        HENNINGSEN--Victor W. , Jr, Sound Shore Health System mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Victor W. Henningsen, Jr. Together with his family, Vic was a steadfast supporter of Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester and a devoted member of the Board of Governors, serving from 1985 to the present. During this time he was Chairman of the Board from 1991-1994. His commitment to providing our community with the highest level of health care services by furthering the mission of the Medical Center will be forever remembered at Sound Shore. We will miss his guidance and support. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Mayde and their children and grandchildren. Mauro C. Romita, Chairman John R. Spicer, President and CEO $(6$)HENNINGSEN--Victor William Jr., of Pelham Manor, NY, died March 26, 2007. Born May 19, 1924, he was a lifelong resident of the town of Pelham. He leaves his beloved wife of 58 years, Mayde, his children and their spouses: Vic and Susan, of Andover, MA; Kit and Caroline, of Stony Creek, CT; Mary and Chris, of Pelham Manor; Tim and Anne, of Wexford, PA; and eight grandchildren. Also survived by his brother, John T. Henningsen, of Rye, and sister, Ann H. Kneisel, of Boston, MA. Educated at Phillips Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and Yale. During World War II he served in the Atlantic, Mediterranean and Indian Ocean war zones as a midshipman, third and second mate in the merchant navy, finishing as Lt. (JG) USNR. He spent his entire professional career with the family firm, Henningsen Foods Inc., founded by his grandfather in 1889. Starting as an office boy and plant worker, he retired as President and CEO in 1993 and served as Chairman Emeritus until his death. He was an international leader in the poultry and egg industry as a founder and chairman of the Egg Products Association, a trustee of the Nutrition Foundation and a longtime director of the Institute of American Poultry. He received many industry honors and awards. Profoundly committed to education, he was an active volunteer for Andover, the USMMA, Yale, and Sweet Briar College, where he was past president of the Board of Trustees. A longtime trustee of the Chapel of St. Thomas More at Yale, he was also past president of the Yale Club of NYC and of the American Friends of the Bermuda Maritime Museum. He devoted much time and energy to his native town, particularly the village of Pelham Manor, serving over the years as chair of the Pelham Community Chest, member of the village Planning Board, trustee and mayor of the village of Pelham Manor, cochairman of the Friends of the Pelham Town Library, and chairman of the board of the Sound Shore Medical Center. At his death he was still active in efforts to bridge political divisions and bring people together in service to the community he loved. Memorial Mass, 11 AM, Saturday, March 31, at Our Lady of Perpetual Help, Fowler Ave, Pelham Manor, NY. Interment private. Contributions in his memory to the Friends of the Pelham Town Library, 530 Colonial Avenue, Pelham, NY, 10803; and the Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester, 16 Guion Place, New Rochelle, NY, 10801.
      