
        SCHUR--Joseph Allen, of Tamarac, FL died peacefully at home on March 9, 2007 with his family at his side. He enjoyed 91 years of a full life, giving himself generously to his entire family and dear friends. He supported himself through college as a musician and graduated City College in 1935. He began his career as a math teacher in NYC and then established Alan Novelty, designing and manufacturing buttons and costume jewelry. His company went on to be known as Alanco Industries which was merged with Odell Industries and then with Papercraft Corp. He remained active in the financial and real estate industries. Joe was always sought out for his advice and gave of himself unselfishly to his family and community. He was a member of the draft board in Mt. Vernon, NY during the difficult time of the Vietnam War. He was President of Willow Ridge Country Men's Club of the Free Synagogue in Mt. Vernon and President of Willow Ridge Country Club in Harrison, NY. He was honored by B'nai Brith for his devoted work and generosity. He was a master bridge player, avid golfer and sports enthusiast. Most important of all to Joe was his family. He was a confidant and advisor and surrogate father to all who needed him. Joe is survived by his beloved wife, Frances of 68 years. He was a loving father to Marilyn Schur Hellinger, Robert Schur and Kenneth Schur and their spouses, Gary Hellinger, Catherine Schur and Janet Schur. He was a devoted grandfather to his loving 14 grandchildren and their spouses: Lisa and Mike Manaster, Tracy and Mike Freedman, Wendy and Steven Bennett, Richard and Lydia Hellinger, Jeremy Hellinger, Audrey and Mark Altschul, Valerie, David and Teddy Schur, Marion and Claude Hardwick, Ariel and Geoff Vitale, Jon, Jason and Josh Schur. He found great joy from his 21 great grandchildren ranging in age from 15 years to 4 months: Justin, Rachel and Emily Manaster, Charlie, Dani, Jessica, Sophie and Julia Freedman, Sarah Jane, Billy, Rob and Tom Bennett, Spencer, Jake and Iliana Hellinger, Ben, Chloe, Noah and Liam Altschul, Sophie Hardwick and Zoie Vitale. He is survived by his sister, Rose Fox of Dallas, TX and his brother, Jack Schur of Los Angeles, CA. ''Uncle Joe'' will be missed by many nieces and nephews. Special thanks to Annette, Leoni, Sonia and Diane for their loving care. His energy, love and counsel will be missed by all and are irreplaceable. Funeral service will be held at Sinai-Free Synagogue, 550 N. Columbus Ave., Mt. Vernon, NY at 11:30 am. Monday, March 12, 2007.
      