
        RONSON--Howard P., the International Chairman of the HRO Group, passed away surrounded by family and friends in Monaco on March 21, 2007. Born in London, England on May 28, 1943, Mr. Ronson graduated from Carmel College in England. In 1962, he joined his family's residential and commercial real estate firm. By the late 1960's, Mr. Ronson had begun to research commercial office development prospects in France. In partnership with the U.K.'s Chesterfield Properties, Plc he founded Chesterfield Ronson Europe, Limited, and became one of the first pan-European commercial developers active across France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, and the U.K. In the late 1970's, Mr. Ronsons keen eye for market opportunity took him to the United States where he started HRO International, Limited and quickly established himself among the most active and successful developers in New York City. During the following decade he built 11 large projects totaling over 550,000 m2. Seeing similar market opportunity in Europe in the mid 1990's, Mr. Ronson re-established HRO's presence in Paris bringing with him its well established high-tech capabilities. Again, demonstrating extraordinary market timing, HRO went on to develop 19 major projects, creating what are generally viewed as Europe's leading buildings in Paris, London and Frankfurt. The HRO Group is one of the leading privately held international commercial real estate development firms and a major force in both the European and American markets, having developed more than 1.5 million m2 of prime office property in 55 projects over the past four decades. The firm includes 30 partners and professional staff in Paris and New York, and will continue operating as it has, with the Ronson family. Mr. Ronson is known as a driven and intensely dedicated individual, who strove for excellence and professionalism. He earned numerous international industry awards for design, management and development excellence. Everyone who met him was drawn to his warm and clearly brilliant mind. Mr. Ronson's energy also extended to exceptional philanthropic endeavors. Envisioning the need for a top quality religious educational institution (Yeshiva) in the Tel Aviv-Jerusalem corridor, he conceived, built and nurtured the Genesis Center, a campus serving 150 Jewish students. He recently initiated construction of a new synagogue (Yakar) in Tel Aviv. Mr. Ronson is survived by his wife Angelika, their twin daughters Gisele and Livia, his stepson Stanley, his sister Benita, nieces Tanya and Ali, and nephew Oliver. A memorial service shall be held at the Millennium Hotel, in Grosvenor Square, London at 2 pm on Sunday March 25, 2007 followed by a burial service at 4 pm. In lieu of flowers or gifts donations may be made in Mr. Ronson's memory to a charity of choice.
        $(6$)RONSON--Howard. The governors, members, and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Howard Ronson, former REBNY governor and an active and generous REBNY member for 25 years. REBNY extends its sincere condolences to the entire Ronson family. Stephen M. Ross, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
      