
        ZEISLER--Richard S. With respect and sadness, The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes the passing of Richard S. Zeisler, a Board member of our organization since its inception in 1969. He was a true gentleman, an art collector, and a philanthropist who supported a wide range of cultural activities, but it was his love of chamber music that drew him, week after week for many decades, to our concerts at Alice Tully Hall. From the early days of his friendship with Miss Tully until very recently, he was a loyal presence in our hall and a devoted supporter of our many musical endeavors. With him passes a treasured piece of our history. Peter Frelinghuysen, Chairman Donaldson Pillsbury, Vice-Chairman
        ZEISLER--Richard. The Trustees and Governors of the Skowhegan School of Painting & Sculpture express their sincere condolences on the loss of longtime Trustee Richard S. Zeisler. Richard was a dear friend to the School, and had been a member of the Board of Trustees since 1984. His generosity and dedication to Skowhegan and to the training of young artists will be missed. Ann Gund Chair, Trustees Judson Reis President, Trustees Suzanne McClelland Chair, Governors
        ZEISLER--Richard S. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Richard S. Zeisler. A MoMA member since 1950, Richard joined the Board of Trustees in 1979 and was elected a Life Trustee in 1995. He served with distinction and dedication as a member of the International Council (1960-2007 and its Treasurer from 1989-1991), the Committee on Painting and Sculpture (since 1972), and as an honorary member of the Committee on Architecture and Design (since 1989). We are grateful for his generosity to the Museum's recent expansion project, and for the gifts of outstanding works of art now in our collection, including Rene Magritte's, The Lovers. Richard will be sorely missed. He will be remembered with affection and respect for his intelligence, thoughtfulness, and commitment to MoMA. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        ZEISLER--Richard Spiro, (90) on March 6, 2007. Loving uncle of Pamela Sundine, Jill Langford, Judi Zeisler, John and James Zeisler. He was born in Chicago, but lived most of his life in New York City, a Private Investor and Collector of 20th Century European art. He was a Life Trustee of The Museum of Modern Art, Life Fellow of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Governing Life Member of the Art Institute of Chicago, Director Emeritus of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, Trustee of Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture, Honorary Trustee of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, Past President and Life Member of the New York Chapter of the American Jewish Committee. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, on Thursday, 48pm. Services Friday, March 9, 2007, 11am, at the Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 Street. Burial to take place in Chicago.
        ZEISLER--Richard. With deep sadness, the Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes the loss of Honorary Board Member, Richard Zeisler. A former and long time Board member, Richard Zeisler's concern for the welfare of children was an important focus of his life and he impacted countless youngsters in our programs. He will be remembered and missed for his love of art, music and desire to help children with nowhere else to turn. We extend our condolences to his family and friends. John A Herrmann, President Jean Troubh & Joseph Kaplan, Co-Chairs of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D, Exec. V.P. & CEO Paul Levine, Assoc. Exec. V.P
      