
        MARRON--Dorothy (nee Jamin), 92, of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, passed away on March 26, 2007. Born in Weehawken on August 1, 1914, she attended the Dwight (Englewood) School and graduated from Georgian Court University in 1936. She married Lawrence Peter Marron in 1943, who predeceased her in 1976. Her outstanding service to her community and extraordinary support of various philanthropic organizations led to numerous awards and recognitions including being the recipient of the Distinguished Service Award from West Bergen (NJ) Mental Health, the naming of the Marron Critical Care Floor at The Valley Hospital of Ridgewood, NJ and the Dorothy Marron University Chapel at Georgian Court University in Lakewood NJ, where she recently was awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humanities. Among other charities she was actively involved in and supported were: St. Joseph's School for the Blind; Doctors without Borders; Food for the Poor; and Mepkin Abbey in Moncks Corner, SC. Mrs. Marron, a championship golfer, began playing at the age of 13 and started her competitive career by winning the Ladies' championship at White Beeches Country Club at age 15. She was nine times Ladies' champion of The Ridgewood Country Club, where the annual Marron Cup tournament honors her achievements. She won numerous county, state and regional championships, was former Metropolitan Golf Association Girls Champion and was a member emerita of the Women's New Jersey Golf Association. She is survived by her sister-in-laws, Evelyn DelBalso Marron of Ho-HoKus, Doris Marron Glingler of Rome, Italy as well as numerous nieces, nephews and cousins. She was predeceased by her father J. William Jamin, General Manager of Todd Shipyards, in 1970, and her mother Mae Maltz Jamin in 1977. A funeral mass will be celebrated at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Ridgewood on Friday March 30 at 10:45 AM with interment at George Washington Memorial Park, Paramus. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to The Valley Hospital Foundation, 233 N. Van Dien, Ridgewood, NJ 07450. Arrangements C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, Ridgewood. www.vanemburgh.com
      