
        KIRCHMAN--Kenneth P. Kenneth Kirchman, a prominent Orlando businessman and founder of Kirchman Corporation, died at his home in Winter Park on Tuesday, March 13. He was 72. Mr. Kirchman founded Kirchman Corporation, a privately held banking software innovator, in 1968 and built the company into a multi-national corporation that served over 6,000 banking institutions around the world. Kirchman Corporation was a pioneer in the banking software industry and a leading provider of automation software and compliance services to commercial banks. It was acquired in 2004 by Metavante Banking Solutions. Mr. Kirchman contributed Stetson University's first $1 million gift to endow the Kirchman Chair of Humanities. His active and committed interest in the community led him to serve on Stetson University Board of Trustees and serve as President of the Alumni Association. He was also former Director of Public Radio and Television of Central Florida. He served on former Florida Governor Bob Graham's Economic Development Task Force and was a Trustee of Florida House in Washington, DC. He earned a B.S. from Stetson University, attended a business management course at Harvard Business School and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Law (LLD) from Stetson. He served as a First Lieutenant in the Guided Missile Branch of the U.S. Army and, prior to founding Kirchman Corporation, held positions with Sperry Rand Corporation, The National Cash Register Company and General Computer Services. He is survived by his wife, Deanna Pitman Kirchman and niece Victoria Pitman Smith. He has three children and a son-in-law: Kevin Kirchman, Karen Kirchman, and Kimberly (Mark) Fehl. He has two sisters and brothers - in - law: Arlene (Jack) Griffith and Jane (Neil) Linden and two brothers and sisters-in-law: Ronald (Linda) Kirchman and Arthur (Glenda) Kirchman. He has four grandchildren, Chantell Calivas, Brent Calivas, Kaiya Fehl and Marin Fehl and 11 nieces and nephews along with 16 grandnieces and grandnephews. The family will hold a memorial service for family and friends on Tuesday, March 27th at 11:00 am. The event will be held at Lake X, the Kirchman's 10,000 acre ranch south of Orlando, FL. The family requests that no flowers or donations be sent. Condolence cards can be addressed to the family and sent to P.O. Box 2519, Winter Park, FL 32790.
      