
        DUBIN--Eleanor. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President
        $(6$)DUBIN--Eleanor. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Ellie, beloved wife of our devoted board member, Mel Dubin. She will long be remembered for her commitment to those we serve. We extend sincere condolences to Mel and the entire family. Lawrence Simon, Chairman Arthur Goldstein, President Herbert Friedman, Exec VP
        $(6$)DUBIN--Eleanor. The Queens College Center for Jewish Studies deeply mourns the passing of Eleanor Dubin, wife of our esteemed and active Board member and dear friend, Mel Dubin. Eleanor was extremely active in many charities, here and in Israel. We extend our sympathy to the entire Dubin family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Arthur A. Anderman, Chair William Helmreich, Director, Center for Jewish Studies Mark Rosenblum, Director, Jewish Studies Program
        $(6$)DUBIN--Eleanor. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Eleanor Dubin of Great Neck, NY. She was a lifelong supporter of our organization along with her husband, Melvin, who first became involved with the ATS in the 1950s. Together, they became Technion Guardians, reaching the highest level of commitment to the ATS, the Technion and Israel. Eleanor and Melvin Dubin generously supported numerous projects benefiting Technion students including such New York Metropolitan Region projects as the Opto-Electronics and Solid State Electronics Center. Most recently, they established the Ellie and Mel Dubin Multimedia Laboratory in the Irwin and Joan Jacobs Center for Communication and Information Technologies. We extend our sincere condolences to Mrs. Dubin's beloved husband Melvin, her son Adam and his wife Rachele Dubin, her mother Ruth Brown, her brothers Dr. Barry Brown and Donald Brown, and the entire Dubin family. American Technion Society Joan Seidel, President Stephen A. Laser, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Stanley Shirvan, Chairman, NY Metropolitan Region Alan Forman, Chairman Elect, NY Metropolitan Region Nancy Gad-Harf, Director, NY Metropolitan Region
        $(6$)DUBIN--Ellie. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Ellie Dubin, beloved wife of Mel, former Chair of ADL's Long Island Board and a longtime leader. Ellie shared with Mel a commitment to the Jewish people and to the League's agenda promoting respect and understanding for all. We extend our condolences to Mel and the entire family. Glen S. Lewy, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
      