
        SOIFER--Enid McKenna. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem are profoundly saddened by the passing of our much loved and admired lay leader, Enid McKenna Soifer, a source of inspiration to her many friends and colleagues in the United States and Israel. Devoted to Israel, the Jewish people, and The Hebrew University community of students and faculty, Enid served as an AFHU national board member, chaired the Campaign Committee and led wonderful, soul-satisfying missions to Israel. No one cared more about students than did Enid, whose advocacy and philanthropy ranged from establishing the Howard H. Soifer Student Scholarship Fund to supporting the Scopus Student Village. Deeply engaged in Jewish Studies, Enid, a Guardian of The Hebrew University, will be posthumously awarded an Honorary Fellowship at the Board of Governors Meeting in June 2007. Together we mourn the loss of this magnificent individual and cherish her life and example. We offer deepest sympathies to her children Jonathan and Randi Zimmerman, and to the entire family, who are in our thoughts and prayers. The family has requested that in lieu of flowers, all contributions go to AFHU, One Battery Park Plaza, New York, NY 10004. AFHU George A. Schieren, Ira Lee Sorkin, Chairman Peter T. Willner, National Executive Director The Hebrew University Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        $(6$)SOIFER--Enid, 63, died on Sunday, March 18th at her home in Warwick, NY. She is survived by her children Randi and Jonathan and her brother Allen, and her beloved pets, Simcha and Leon. Enid was elected to two terms of service on the Community School Board of District 28, in Queens. For 12 years she helped students attend the college of their choice at her company Educational Counseling and Placement. A lover and patron of the arts, Enid assisted with the expansion of the collections at the Bronx Museum of the Arts and the Roig House in Humacao, Puerto Rico. Most recently she was the Chairperson of the National Campaign for the American Friends of the Hebrew University. Her family requests that any contributions in her name be given to American Friends of the Hebrew University or the Bronx Museum of the Arts.
        $(6$)SOIFER--Enid. It is with deep self sympathy that Hineni acknowledges the passing of our dear friend Enid Soifer. Condolences to her children. Jonathan, Jeannine, Randi, and Enid's brother Alan. Rabbi Yisrael Jungreis, Spirtitual Leader Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis, President Barbara Janov, Executive Director
      