
        SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr.: The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt.
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr. The Trustees and staff of The Library of America are saddened by the death of Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., friend and adviser of long standing. We will miss the sage advice of this grand historian and man of letters. Our condolences go to his wife, Alexandra, and his family. D. Ronald Daniel, Chairman Richard Poirier, Chairman Emeritus Cheryl Hurley, President
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur M. Jr.: The faculty, students, staff, alumni, and friends of the Graduate Center of the City University of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. A leading historian of his own time, he was appointed Albert Schweitzer Chair in the Humanities at the Graduate Center in 1966, served on the faculty until 1994, and continued to remain actively involved in our community on an emeritus basis, generously sharing his considerable knowledge and wisdom with our faculty, students, and constituents. It has been an honor and privilege to claim this preeminent scholar as a colleague, and he will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to his family and his world-wide circle of admirers. William P. Kelly, President Frances Degen Horowitz, President Emerita The Graduate Center, City University of New York
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur M, Jr. If there is one man more than any other who helped us understand the meaning of the Four Freedoms and the generation that fought and died to keep the flame of democracy alive it was Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. His formidable contributions to twentiethcentury thought and remarkable elegance of literary style have set him apart as the preeminent historian of the twentieth and twenty-first century. His singular brand of public service and ability to bring the lessons of the past to bear on contemporary problems rendered him a unique national treasure. Historian, prolific author, political sage, advisor to Presidents, social commentator, film critic, professor and activist, Arthur was all of these, and more. But to those of us of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, Arthur was also a dear friend, colleague, advisor and guiding spirit. His determination to keep the legacy of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt alive for future generations led him to join William vanden Heuvel, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr., Trude Lash, Fredrica Goodman and others in creating this wonderful organization and for that alone we all owe Arthur a profound debt of gratitude. On behalf of the FERI Board of Directors, and the members of the Roosevelt family, we wish to express our sincere and heartfelt condolences to Alexandra, Stephen, Christina, Andrew, Robert and Peter. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you today. Richard E. French, Jr. Anna Eleanor Roosevelt Co-Chairs Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute
      