
        ZISES--Ruth. Heartfelt condolences to Bernie, Siggy, Jay, Seymour and family on the loss of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Justin Hays Green Jenny Slayton $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. To ''Poppa'' and the entire Zises Family. Deepest sympathy upon your inconsolable loss. Bernie Weiss $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. Your great example will live forever in the hearts and memories of your many friends and loving family. Love Lauren and Steven $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Zises, beloved wife of Bernard, mother of Seymour and mother-in-law of Cathy, esteemed members of the New York Jewish community. Seymour, a former member of our Board of Directors, is a dedicated leader whose generosity and deep commitment strengthens our ability to serve those in need. Ruth has instilled a commitment to Jewish philanthropy that she has passed on to her children and grandchildren. Through their involvement, they have made an enduring impact in New York, in Israel, and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to Bernard, to Seymour and Cathy, to Selig, to Jay and Nancy, to her twelve grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO $(6$)ZISES--Ruth Grau. Adored and loving wife of 68 years of Bernard Zises, beloved mother of Selig, Jay (and Nancy), Seymour (and Cathy). Cherished grandmother of Lynn (and Doug), Lara, Samantha (and Drew), Justin (and Amy), Meryl, Aaron, Samuel, Benjamin and Natalie and great-grandmother to Lily, Simon, Oliver, Isabelle and Macklin, aunt of Shea (and Jeffrey) Rosenberg. Loving and devoted daughter of the late Louis and Lotte Grau, and sister of the late Seymour Grau. She dedicated her life to the noble career of parenting and grandparenting. Her memory will be a blessing for all she loved and all who loved her. Service 12 Noon today at ''Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer'', Queens Blvd. and 76th Rd., Forest Hills, NY. Shiva will be observed at the home of Selig Zises, 988 5th Ave., NYC. $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. Ruth set an example of motherhood for a generation. She loved her family unconditionally and nothing was more important to her. She adored her husband Bernard and three sons, Siggy, Jay and Seymour. For her, the sun did not rise in the East, it rose on them. Ruth was the gold standard of grandmotherhood and my daughter Lynn was blessed to have her. She was totally devoted, adoring and always involved. The power of her love and warmth will be missed by all of us. Susan Zises Green
      