
        MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi''. We mourn the loss of our founder, partner and dear friend, Muzzi Mirza. Muzzi was endlessly creative, constantly energized, and a problem solver who always found the way through the most convoluted maze and taught us how to have fun doing it. Muzzi's remarkable warmth and open spirit resulted in a world where once you spent an hour with him you felt as if he was your friend -and he was. For Muzzi, the glass was not merely half full, it was always overflowing. He made us all better and what we do and in who we are. To his wife, Sue, and to his children, Alexander, Christina and Sean, we loved him too, and will miss him dearly. Odyssey Investment Partners
        $(6$)MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi''. For the past 17 years, Muzzi was my colleague, partner and friend. We taught each other our business. We argued constantly, laughed uproariously, struggled through bad and good times, and in the end worked it out everyday. He was a living antidote to pessimism, and enemy to gloom, the champion of keeping our options open and lifting spirit. When we wandered, Muzzi was ''not confused''. I am not confused now, Muzzi. It was very, very special. Stephen Berger
        $(6$)MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi'', beloved father, husband, son and best friend to so many people, passed away at home in Greenwich, CT after a courageous battle with cancer, on Saturday, March 10, 2007. Muzzi was born in Lahore, Pakistan in 1958 and moved to the US in 1976. Muzzi is survived by his beloved wife of 18 years, Susan, his precious children Alexander, Christina and Sean, his mother Anis, brother Mustafa and his wife Liz and their children, mother-in-law Patricia Scribner, brother-in-law Mark Scribner and his wife Dawn, his sisterin-law Nancy Ruscheinski and her husband Edward, his loyal companion Midnight and many loving nieces, nephews, cousins and close friends. He was predeceased by his father Akbar Mirza and father-in-law Howard A. Scribner, Jr. Muzzi is simply irreplaceable - there will never be another like him. He leaves all of us with wonderful memories of joy and laughter and the gift of his love and extraordinary generosity. A unique combination of keen intelligence, clarity of thought, sharp wit and persuasive charisma led to his extraordinary success. He was a founding partner of Odyssey Investment Partners, LLC, a leading private equity investment manager, and was a principal in its predecessor firm, Odyssey Partners. He served on the Board of Directors of Aviation Technologies, Inc., Dresser, Inc., United Site Services, Inc., Neff Corp, Norcross Safety Products, LLC., and Tri-Star Electronics, Inc. Prior to joining Odyssey, Muzzi was the head of the merchant banking group at GE Capital Corporation. Muzzi began his career at Marine Midland Bank after graduating from Claremont McKenna College and obtaining a graduate degree from the American Graduate School of International Management. Muzzi exemplified Rudyard Kiplings ideal man, equally comfortable ''talking with the crowds and walking with Kings.'' His huge heart allowed him to embrace everyone he touched. His simplicity, warmth and legendary zest for life were contagious and changed many lives for the better. His passions included golf, cars, music, the ocean and ''the art of the deal.'' He was a great host and loved the company of family and friends. He was completely outrageous, but with his warmth and humor, he disarmed everyone from family and friends to colleagues and caddies. People loved being with him because he would inspire them with his own joy for life, lifting them beyond their own capabilities. Muzzi was a wonderful husband and father who loved and cherished his family. He was a willing accomplice to his children's mischief and laughter and would egg them on, as the biggest kid in the family. Until his last day he remained serene and composed, and never lost his optimism. He was completely at peace with himself. We will all cherish and miss him. Burial will be private. A public celebration of Muzzi's life will be held on March 29th at the Greenwich Hyatt at 11am. In lieu of flowers donations can be sent to the Muzzi Mirza Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund, to the attention of Dr. John Chabot, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Pancreas Center, 161 Ft. Washington Avenue, New York, NY 10032
        $(6$)MIRZA--Muzzi. We express our deepest sympathy to the family of Muzzi Mirza, our hunting friend. Our prayers our with you. Ten Mile River Preserve
      