
        KORNREICH--Mort. A good friend. A renaissance man. We'll miss you. Barney & Ethel Mayrsohn
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. The Officers, Board of Directors, and the entire staff of The NIA Group and Kornreich NIA are deeply saddened by the passing of Mort Kornreich, CoChairman of the Kornreich Organization, on Tuesday, March 27th. Mort Kornreich joined his father Saul and his brother Matthew to help build S. Kornreich & Sons Inc. into one of the largest privately held insurance brokerage firms in the United States. The firm was a pioneer in offering multi-lines of insurance services and products to its clients. Mort was a Chartered Life Underwriter and a member of the Million Dollar Round Table. In addition to his many honors, he, along with his brother Matt, was named Mass Mutual Man of the Year in 1975. He was a dynamic mentor and coach, a talented professional, a compassionate human being, and a real gentleman. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his twin brother Matt and his wife, Suzanne; his sister, Norma Weinstein; his children, Jim and Meredith Kornreich, Tom and Barbara Kornreich, and Nancy and Rob Rieger; his grandchildren, Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly, and Alex. Funeral services for Mort Kornreich will be held 11:00 am, Friday, March 30th at Congregational Emmanuel of Westchester, 2125 Westchester Avenue East, Rye, NY 10580. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be made to United Jewish Appeal Federation, 701 Westchester Avenue, Suite 203 East, White Plains, NY 10604; or The American Jewish Committee, 235 Main Street, Suite 314, White Plains, NY 10601.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. Uncle Morty, our hearts are broken with your passing, though they are filled and enlightened for having known and loved you. Your philanthropy, activism, and creativity will always be an inspiration. We've been doubly blessed by having two fathers. Bill, Eileen, and Sarah Kathy, Sam, Lisa, and Andrew
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. Mort, You were my other half and best friend since birth. You will live in our hearts forever. Matt and Sue
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton, to our beloved ''Uncle Mort'' -a real mensch -one of the great guys. We will miss you. Love Dorothy, Richard, Sandi, and families
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. United Jewish Communities (UJC), its Board of Trustees and staff mourn the passing of Morton Kornreich, a true partner and friend of the continental Jewish federation system. Among his many leadership positions in the Jewish community, Morton served as national chairman of United Jewish Appeal from 1988 until 1990. Morton dedicated himself to the Jewish community, with kindness and dignity. He will be missed by all who knew him. UJC extends our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to the entire Kornreich family.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL -The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership mourn the passing of Mort Kornreich, our esteemed past Chairman and Board member. He was deeply caring and committed to the Jewish community, and his advice and counsel will be greatly missed. CLAL extends deepest sympathy to his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Fern K. Hurst, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, President Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President Emeritus Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. Dear Matt, Sue, Tommy, Barbara, Jimmy, Meredith, Rob, Nancy and all the grandchildren. If heaven ranks one for kindness, generosity, sense of humor and class, Mort will be at the head of the line. Our hearts are with you. Roni, Howard and Cody
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton, be loved husband of the late JoAnn. Devoted father of James and Meredith, Thomas and Barbara, and Nancy and Robert Reiger. Cherished brother of Matthew and Sue and Norma Weinstein. Adored and loving grandfather of Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly and Alex. Dear friend of Larcenia Petty. Services 11 am Friday, Congregation Emanu-El, 2125 Westchester Ave, Rye, NY. Contributions may be made to UJA Federation or American Jewish Committee. For additional information, call Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 212-7694400.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. To my darling brother Mort, thank you for always being there for me! Love, Norma Weinstein
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and past President, Morton Kornreich, father of Thomas and James Kornreich. Funeral services are being held today at 11:00am at Congregation Emanuel of Westchester in Rye, NY. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Seth Blumenfeld, President Hildy Wagenheim, Secretary
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. Our hearts go out to our dear friends; Jimmy and Meredith, Tommy and Barbara, and Nancy and Rob, and their children, on the loss of their beloved father and grandfather. Mort was a man of style and a true patriarch. His commitment to Jewish philanthropy was inspiring to all of us. He left his family a wonderful legacy. You were all his pride and joy. We will miss him. Lisa and Larry Cohen
      