
        KORNREICH--Mort. Mort, You were my other half and best friend since birth. You will live in our hearts forever. Matt and Sue
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. Uncle Morty, our hearts are broken with your passing, though they are filled and enlightened for having known and loved you. Your philanthropy, activism, and creativity will always be an inspiration. We've been doubly blessed by having two fathers. Bill, Eileen, and Sarah Kathy, Sam, Lisa, and Andrew
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton, to our beloved ''Uncle Mort'' -a real mensch -one of the great guys. We will miss you. Love Dorothy, Richard, Sandi, and families
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton A. The Membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club in Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend, esteemed member and former Governor, Morton A. Kornreich, and extend our sincerest condolences to his family. David C. Bubes, President Boca Rio Golf Club Inc.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton A. You were loved and admired by so many, but most of all your family. You have been an exemplary role model to all of us. Your sense of humility and good nature shown through everything you did. All that came in contact with you instantly loved you for your incredible passion for life and ability to live every day to its fullest. You were the ultimate Renaissance man, cultivating many interests in literature, art and politics. Your generosity of spirit to the Jewish people was immeasurable. You are the role model that we all aspire to, and your legacy will live in our hearts forever. Your Loving Children, Jim, Meredith, Tom, Barbara, Nancy, Rob, and grandchildren, Todd, Zach, Jenny, Caroline, Molly, Adam, Maggie and Alex.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. Rob and Nancy, Tom and Barbara, Jim and Meredith, your father was the original ''stand-up'' guy. Lucy and Richard Halperin The Velocity Foundation
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. To my darling brother Mort, thank you for always being there for me! Love, Norma Weinstein
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton, be loved husband of the late JoAnn. Devoted father of James and Meredith, Thomas and Barbara, and Nancy and Robert Reiger. Cherished brother of Matthew and Sue and Norma Weinstein. Adored and loving grandfather of Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly and Alex. Dear friend of Larcenia Petty. Services 11 am Friday, Congregation Emanu-El, 2125 Westchester Ave, Rye, NY. Contributions may be made to UJA Federation or American Jewish Committee. For additional information, call Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 212-7694400.
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton A. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of our beloved friend and longtime leader, Morton Kornreich. Mort was an AJC Vice President, a member of our National Board of Governors, former chair of our Koppelman Institute on American Jewish-Israeli Relations, and a member of the board of Commentary magazine. Devoted to Israel and the Jewish people, he lent his time and talents to a host of philanthropic organizations. Mort was a warm, wise and beneficent individual who will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. E. Robert Goodkind, President David A. Harris, Executive Director
        $(6$)KORNREICH--Morton. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Morton Kornreich, a treasured friend whose deep commitment and boundless generosity strengthened our ability to serve those in need and enriched our initiatives in New York, in Israel, and around the world. Mort, a past president of United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York and chairman of the board of UJA-Federation of New York, has been a prominent figure in Jewish communal life. Mort, in addition, was national chairman of United Jewish Appeal and a significant leader of numerous Jewish organizations worldwide. Mort's children and grandchildren proudly continue his legacy to the Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mort's twin brother, Matt, and his wife, Suzanne; to his sister, Norma Weinstein; to Mort's children, Jim and Meredith Kornreich, Tom and Barbara Kornreich, and Nancy and Rob Rieger; to his grandchildren, Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly, and Alex; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      