
        SPORN--Paul. A Marxist English Professor who started out as a factory worker and labor organizer, Paul Sporn died on February 27, in New York at 85. Born in New York, he migrated to Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago and back to New York. He was an activist and a scholar for nearly sixty years. During WWII he joined the Air Force to fight fascism, serving in Europe and North Africa. After the War, he met and married Josephine Levine, an artist, who was his best friend and love of his life for 54 years, until her death in 2004. Paul Sporn saw capitalism as an unjust system that bred poverty and racism. These views led him to join the Communist Party as a young man, and later to help found the Progressive Labor Party. He gained national news attention in 1964 when he defiantly challenged the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) in Buffalo. Sporn stated that the Congressional Committee was an illegal body because some of its members came from states where African American citizens were denied the vote. For his vocal opposition to HUAC, Sporn was fired from his job at the University of Buffalo under New York's Feinberg Law, which banned teachers who were members of organizations deemed subversive. Paul Sporn was resilient; he completed his Ph.D. at Buffalo, obtained a faculty position at Wayne State University in Detroit, and continued his activism and scholarship. In the 1960s and 1970s, he spoke out against the Vietnam War and co-founded the International Committee Against Racism. In addition to poetry and numerous essays, in 1995 he published a book entitled ''Against Itself: The Federal Theater and Writers' Project in the Midwest,'' the result of many years of tedious research. Paul Sporn loved literature, travel, good food, and lively conversation, but most of all, he loved people. Some of those he loved most are family members who honor and celebrate his life: his son, Peter Sporn; daughter-inlaw, Barbara Ransby; daughter, Pamela Sporn; son-inlaw, Pablo Foster; grandchildren, Jason and Asha RansbySporn and Lelanie Foster; an aunt, Blanche Winikoff; as well as many other relatives and friends. His wit, wisdom, good humor and indomitable humanity will be sorely missed. A celebration of Paul's life will be held March 17 at 4 pm at The Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W. 64th St., NYC. Contributions in Paul's name can be made to North Star Fund in NYC or Crossroads Fund in Chicago.
      