
        BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We will miss the timeless grace, wit and panache of our dear friend and client, Janet Brown, whose spirited style will live on in the memories of all those she touched. The Partners and Professionals of Marks Paneth & Shron LLP
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, a pioneer in fashion, a critic, a comic, a stylist, a dog lover, a friend who has left us too soon. We will always be one accessory too short without you. Lisa and J.J.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We are so sad. Sitting at your ''square table'' was the best. Your candor, rapid fire wit, intelligence and taste-level was extraordinary. You always knew. We miss you terribly already. Dear Janet -save the last dance for me. Larry, Laurie, Justin and Benjamin
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. Words simply cannot express the loss we feel at your tragic death. How can such an alive person be gone? The answer is you're not -your smile looks down on every woman you helped make a correct fashion decision and every man who waited patiently for hours as his wife shopped from your glorious collection. You were never a store owner -you were and always will be simply Janet Brown, Friend. Nancy and Donny
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. Rescued dripping from Georgica Pond. Not a good sport, the best sport. Summer house courtier. Pulling us dancing out to the edge and there, mischievous and sparkling and wise, balancing. Who wants to go out, knowing you won't be there? A
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. My dearest friend, I shall miss you so much. Love Always, Dagmar
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We are so terribly saddened by the tragic death of our longtime friend. She was a part of our lives and she will be greatly missed. Rochelle and Hal Lipton
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, (born in Philadelphia, PA, May 23, 1947), died suddenly in a car accident on Friday, March 16th as she drove to work. Janet enjoyed an iconic career as founder of Janet Brown Ltd., the chic Long Island boutique. She was loved by her friends, respected by her colleagues; her quick irreverent sense of humor and extraordinary heart will be missed by all. She is survived by her sister Elaine Edelstein, of Villanova, PA, her brother-in-law Marc, and her niece and nephew Brandon and Melissa, in addition to her countless friends. Funeral services will be held Tuesday March 20, at 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, Madison and 81st street. Donations may be made in the name of Janet Brown to the New York University Child Study Center, 577 1st Ave, NY, NY 10016.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We will miss your outrageous honesty, your lack of political correctness, your ability to have a good time and make sure everyone else had a better time. Your relentless pursuit of fun with your innumerable friends. Everyone loved you for your enduring indomitable spirit. Our family has suffered a loss that will never be replaced. We'll miss you at all of our family celebrations, our vacations, and our parties. Life will never be the same without you and your endless dance moves. Brooke, Dan, Jon, Stephen and Mallory.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. Over 30 years ago we shared our dreams. So happy they came true. I'll miss you, my dear friend. Eileen
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of the New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Janet Brown, a great friend and supporter of the Child Study Center. We will miss her wit, her generosity and her passion for old and young. Our thoughts are with all those who love her. Brooke Garber Neidich, Chair Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. Your special, unique love, personality and soul along with your style and wit will always be remembered. There will never be another you! Our family who adores you, will miss you and be always thinking of you. So much admiration and love. Bunny and Charles
      