
        FARLEY--James Parker of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on March 29. Born in Newark, NJ on September 16, 1924, Jim leaves his beloved wife of 56 years, Irene, and their four children: James and wife Petra and children Devin, Colin and Carling of London; Catherine and son-in-law David Elkind and son Daniel of Greenwich, CT; Robert and daughter - in - law Maribeth and children Katherine and Patrick of Wilton, CT; and Margaret of Westport, CT. He is also survived by his brother and sister-in-law Thomas R. and Nancy Farley of West Orange, NJ and his sister Maryrose Swift of Upper Montclair, NJ. He was educated at St. Peter's Prep and Rutgers University (Class of 1949). He served in the U.S. Navy during WWII. His career started with General Electric Co. in 1949. He joined McCann-Erickson in New York in 1956 before moving to Tokyo in 1962 as part of the joint venture team that built McCannErickson-Hakuhodo, one of the earliest American-Japanese advertising partnerships. In 1964, he became President and CEO of the venture; in 1978 he became EVP McCann - Erickson Worldwide with responsibilities for the Pacific Region; returning to New York in 1980 until his retirement in 1984. Among his many retirement activities, Jim was an active supporter of Project Liberty Ship and its restoration of the John W. Brown on which he served during WWII. He was an active member of the New York Athletic Club's Anglers and Huckleberry Indians groups, and a member of the Foreign Correspondent Club (Japan and Hong Kong), Young Presidents Organization, Zeta Phi, Tokyo American Club (past President), Patterson Club (Fairfield, CT), Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club, Metropolitan Club (NYC), and the National Maritime Historical Society. Memorial Mass, 11am, April 14, Our Lady of Fatima Church, 229 Danbury Road, Wilton, CT. Burial and interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to the Grace C. Jones Nursing Scholarship Fund c/o the Norwalk Hospital Foundation, 24 Stevens Street, Norwalk, CT 06856.
      