
        SCHLESINGER--Arthur M, Jr. If there is one man more than any other who helped us understand the meaning of the Four Freedoms and the generation that fought and died to keep the flame of democracy alive it was Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. His formidable contributions to twentiethcentury thought and remarkable elegance of literary style have set him apart as the preeminent historian of the twentieth and twenty-first century. His singular brand of public service and ability to bring the lessons of the past to bear on contemporary problems rendered him a unique national treasure. Historian, prolific author, political sage, advisor to Presidents, social commentator, film critic, professor and activist, Arthur was all of these, and more. But to those of us of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, Arthur was also a dear friend, colleague, advisor and guiding spirit. His determination to keep the legacy of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt alive for future generations led him to join William vanden Heuvel, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr., Trude Lash, Fredrica Goodman and others in creating this wonderful organization and for that alone we all owe Arthur a profound debt of gratitude. On behalf of the FERI Board of Directors, and the members of the Roosevelt family, we wish to express our sincere and heartfelt condolences to Alexandra, Stephen, Christina, Andrew, Robert and Peter. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you today. Richard E. French, Jr. Anna Eleanor Roosevelt Co-Chairs Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur. The Trustees and Staff of the New York Historical Society express sincere condolences to the family of Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., Pulitzer Prize-winning author, intellectual icon and one of the most influential historians of his generation. We will cherish the memory of his visits to our library and museum, and his outstanding participation in our public programs. Roger Hertog, Chairman Louise Mirrer, President and CEO
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur, Jr. The Board and staff of Common Good are saddened by the death of our friend, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Alexandra and his entire family. Philip K. Howard, Chair Common Good
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur M. Jr. The National Committee on American Foreign Policy mourns the death of its advisor Arthur M. Sclesinger, Jr., the dean of American Historians, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. William J. Flynn, Chairman George D. Schwab, President
        $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur, Jr. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. A preeminent historian of the American presidency, he illuminated the administration of Andrew Jackson, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and John F. Kennedy against a sweeping vision of American culture and society. He informed and influenced students, political leaders, and all those who sought insight from his lucid and prolific writings. A Fellow of the Academy for over 50 years and our former neighbor in Cambridge, he inspired friends and colleagues with his belief that ''if we are to survive, we must have ideas, vision, and courage.'' The Academy extends its sincere condolences to his wife, Alexandra, and to his family. Emilio Bizzi, President Leslie C. Berlowitz, Chief Executive Officer Louis W. Cabot, Chair of the Academy Trust and Vice President John S. Reed, Treasurer Jerrold Meinwald, Secretary
      