
        ALLEY--Frederick. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) is deeply saddened by the passing of beloved colleague and friend Fred Alley. A former GNYHA Chairman and longtime President and CEO of The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Mr. Alley was a charismatic leader whose talent and kindness earned him the respect and admiration of countless peers both in New York and nationally. We send our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Sharon, children Kirk and Nicole, grandchildren Jack and Tessa, his extended family, and his many friends and colleagues. Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. Chairman, GNYHA Kenneth E. Raske President, GNYHA
        ALLEY--Frederick, 66, of Sharon, CT, and New York City, passed away on Saturday, March 24th, 2007. Born in Detroit, Fred attended Ferris State University and received his graduate degree from Columbia University. After beginning his long career in health care management at Hackensack Hospital, Fred joined The Brooklyn Hospital Center, where he spent 34 years and was the longtime President and CEO. He served as Chairman of both the Greater New York Hospital Association and the Healthcare Association of New York State, and as a member of the Board of Directors of the American Hospital Association (AHA). Fred was also Chairman of the AHA's Regional Policy Board; founding director and first Chairman of HealthFirst, Inc; Director and past Chairman of the Board of Voluntary Hospitals of America, Metro New York, Inc.; and founder and past Chairman and Director of Combined Coordination Council, LTD. He published numerous articles, working papers and perspectives on a variety of health care-related topics including his efforts on behalf of the King's Fund, an organization of health care executives from Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United States. Fred's writings focused on increased competition in the health marketplace, future challenges in health care financing and delivery, the development of integrated delivery systems, and the state of health care in Brooklyn. He held academic appointments at Columbia University's School of Public Health and Administrative Medicine and at the Arnold and Marie Schwartz College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences of Long Island University. Fred's distinguished career was balanced by a deep commitment to his family, a passion for the outdoors, and various philanthropic pursuits. He is survived by his wife Sharon; son Kirk and his wife Kathy; daughter Nicole and her husband Albert; sister Bette and her husband Bill; and grandchildren Jack and Tessa. A memorial service at the New York Athletic Club in Manhattan will be held at a later date. Donations can be made in Fred's memory to the American Heart Association and Ruffed Grouse Society.
      