
        BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, Dearly beloved Janet, you were a very special friend. You will be truly missed by all and especially me and my family. Joey, Lisa and Rachel
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, A woman of great style. She will be missed both for her taste and herself. Marion and Jerry Sussman
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of the New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Janet Brown, a great friend and supporter of the Child Study Center. We will miss her wit, her generosity and her passion for old and young. Our thoughts are with all those who love her. Brooke Garber Neidich, Chair Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We will miss your outrageous honesty, your lack of political correctness, your ability to have a good time and make sure everyone else had a better time. Your relentless pursuit of fun with your innumerable friends. Everyone loved you for your enduring indomitable spirit. Our family has suffered a loss that will never be replaced. We'll miss you at all of our family celebrations, our vacations, and our parties. Life will never be the same without you and your endless dance moves. Brooke, Dan, Jon, Stephen and Mallory.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. Your special, unique love, personality and soul along with your style and wit will always be remembered. There will never be another you! Our family who adores you, will miss you and be always thinking of you. So much admiration and love. Bunny and Charles
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. My old friend, you did everything before anyone else, and did it brilliantly. This time you messed up-too soon for you to go. Adele Frankel Loeb
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, (born in Philadelphia, PA, May 23, 1947), died suddenly in a car accident on Friday, March 16th as she drove to work. Janet enjoyed an iconic career as founder of Janet Brown Ltd., the chic Long Island boutique. She was loved by her friends, respected by her colleagues; her quick irreverent sense of humor and extraordinary heart will be missed by all. She is survived by her sister Elaine Edelstein, of Villanova, PA, her brother-in-law Marc, and her niece and nephew Brandon and Melissa, in addition to her countless friends. Funeral services will be held Tuesday March 20, at 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, Madison and 81st street. Donations may be made in the name of Janet Brown to the New York University Child Study Center, 577 1st Ave, NY, NY 10016.
      