
        KIRBY--Shirley Anna Hopkins Taylor, died peacefully Tuesday, February 27, 2007, in Billings, MT following a stroke. She was born September 29, 1923, in Chicago. Shirley was the only child of Farley Hopkins and Margaret von Maur Hopkins. She was raised in Chicago and Lake Forest and graduated from Ethel Walkers School in CT. Her first trip to the west was as a guest at the HF Bar Ranch near Buffalo, WY. in the mid-1930s. She married Walter Jennings Taylor on April 15, 1944, in Lake Forest, Ill. They began their life together in Cold Spring Harbor, NY and moved to Kirby, Montana, 50 miles by gravel road from Sheridan, Wyoming in the winter of 1949 after Walt purchased the Dick Glenn ranch. Leaving behind everything she had known, Shirley began her new life in ranching by moving into a two-bedroom and one bath cabin with a newborn baby and two children, ages 2 and 4. Shirley shared more than 60 wonderful years with Walt, becoming involved in ranching and many local activities around Sheridan and Aspen, Colorado where they had a home for many years. She was an accomplished breeder of Thoroughbred racehorses, owning many Group 1 stakes winners. She was a part owner of the well-known racehorse Alleged, winner at the Curragh in 1976 and the Prix de LArc de Triomphe in 1977 and 1978. She parlayed her winnings from Alleged into a very successful mare breeding program. She was active in many causes over the years and instrumental in the formation of the Big Horn Equestrian Center in Big Horn, Wyoming She served as: a board member in various capacities at the Memorial Hospital of Sheridan County in the early 1950s; one of the few female members of the Jockey Club beginning in 1989, the President of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association from 1984 to 1987; and a member of the Board of Directors of Sheridan Memorial Hospital Foundation from 1997 to 2001. Shirley was preceded in death by her parents and husband, Walt. She is survived by her four children: James Taylor and his wife Anne of Billings and their children Marett Taylor and Farley (Stuart) Lansing; Susanna Meyer and her husband David of St. Paul, Minn. and their children David Meyer, Etta Meyer, Stacy Meyer and Stephanie (John) Levy; Walter Watty Taylor, Jr. and his wife Lila of Kirby and their children Kirby Taylor, Peter (Amanda) Taylor, and Walter Jay (Cherie)Taylor III; and Margaret J. Taylor of Bozeman. She also treasured her only greatgrandson Will (Jay and Cherie) and her many cousins, nieces, and nephews. There will be a memorial service at St. Peters Episcopal Church in Sheridan, WY. at 3:00 pm Friday, March 9. A reception will follow at the Powderhorn Club in Big Horn, Wyoming Memorials in lieu of flowers may be made to Heart of the Valley Animal Shelter, PO Box 11390, Bozeman, MT 59719; Grayson-Jockey Club Research Foundation, 821 Corporate Drive, Lexington, KY 40503; or Big Horn Equestrian Center, PO Box 6413, Sheridan, WY 82801. Bullis Mortuary of Hardin has been entrusted with the services.
      