
        BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. I am so saddened by the tragic loss of my true mentor, confidant, and best friend. I know Janet will always be there watching over me. Thank you for the memories. Randi
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. To our very talented and special friend we will miss you. The Missoni Family & The Levbarg-Klein Family
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, In fond memory of Janet Brown, an extraordinary business woman who touched many lives. She will be missed. Prayers and sympathy to Randy and the entire staff at her store. Judie Higgins
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We will miss your outrageous honesty, your lack of political correctness, your ability to have a good time and make sure everyone else had a better time. Your relentless pursuit of fun with your innumerable friends. Everyone loved you for your enduring indomitable spirit. Our family has suffered a loss that will never be replaced. We'll miss you at all of our family celebrations, our vacations, and our parties. Life will never be the same without you and your endless dance moves. Brooke, Dan, Jon, Stephen and Mallory.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. To our beloved Janet, you were a very special friend to us. We will miss you and will always have a special place in our hearts. Simone, Nicole, Denise, Gaby, Sabrina, Willy, and Family
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet. The devoted staff at Janet Brown mourns the loss of our fashion icon.
        $(6$)BROWN--Janet, (born in Philadelphia, PA, March 23, 1947), died suddenly in a car accident on Friday, March 16th, as she drove to work. Janet enjoyed an iconic career as founder of Janet Brown Ltd., the chic Long Island boutique. She was loved by her friends, respected by her colleagues; her quick irreverent sense of humor and extraordinary heart will be missed by all. She is survived by her sister Elaine Edelstein, of Villanova, PA, her brotherin-law Marc, and her niece and nephew Brandon and Melissa, in addition to her countless friends. Funeral services will be held Tuesday March 20, at 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, Madison and 81st street. Donations may be made in the name of Janet Brown to the New York Child Study Center, 577 1st Avenue, New York City, NY 10016.
      