
        ENDICO--Felix Anthony; 86, of New Rochelle, New York, died March 6, 2007. Born in the Bronx, New York, to Josephine and William Endico, Felix attended DeWitt Clinton High School where he was an All-American football player. He received a football scholarship to the University of Alabama and graduated in three years. After graduation he voluntarily enlisted in the United States Marine Corps and served as a First Lieutenant at Iwo Jima. On March 7, 1945, he received the Silver Star for gallantry in action during the bloody battle of Iwo Jima, in which he protected his troops from enemy tank and mortar fire. Subsequently he was battlefield promoted to Captain and became the commanding officer of F Company, Second Battalion, Ninth Marines, Third Marine Division, where he continued to lead his men to victory. Following WWII, he joined his father and brothers in the produce business forming Endico Potatoes of Mount Vernon, New York, which became the premier food service distributor in the Northeastern United States. He also held a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and successfully traded on the Mercantile Exchange. Felix led a life of leadership, bravery, courage and determination. On July 10, 1943, Felix married his high school sweetheart, Katherine Gluck. In addition to his loving wife, he is survived by four daughters: Joanne Carcano of Larchmont, New York, Katherine Doob of Safety Harbor, Florida, Corinne Brady of Pelham, New York, and Mary Fugett of Sugarloaf, New York; five grandchildren, James R. Carcano III of Larchmont, Felix Carcano of Armonk, New York, Rachael Doob of New York, New York, Jason Lewis of New York, New York, and Zachary Doob of Ithaca, New York; and five great-grandchildren: Gabriella Carcano, James R. Carcano IV, Michael Carcano, Patrick Carcano, and Ryan Carcano. Calling hours are Friday 2-4 pm and 7-9 pm at Fred H. McGrath and Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, New York. A mass of Christian burial will be held March 10, at St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville, New York, at 10 am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Town of Mamaroneck/Village of Larchmont Volunteer Ambulance Corps, 155 Weaver Street, Larchmont, New York 10538. Semper fidelis, Pop.
      