
        BUCKLEY--Pat. The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the loss of our long time Advisory Council Member, Pat Buckley. Over the years, The Society's events benefitted enormously from Pat's advice, humor and style. She will be greatly missed. Mrs. Bijan Safai, President The Society of MSKCC
        $(6$)BUCKLEY--Pat. On behalf of the Board of Directors and all the residents of 778 Park Avenue, we offer condolences to the family of Pat Buckley. Having served all who lived in the building as a member of the Board of Directors since 1991, her warmth, wit and spirit will be greatly missed by all.
        $(6$)BUCKLEY--Patricia. The Chaos Club extends its sincere condolences to our esteemed member, William F. Buckley, Jr; and to his family, on the passing of his beloved wife, Patricia. We mourn a remarkable woman whose devotion to her family and energetic work in the greater community remain an inspiration. The Executive Committee: Gerald Gold Steven Goldberg John McCormack Harvey Weiss
        $(6$)BUCKLEY--Patricia. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Pat Buckley, our treasured Honorary Trustee and friend. Pat chaired the annual Costume Institute Benefit for 17 years, from 1978 to 1995, working in tandem with exhibitions on the Ballets Russes, the Hapsburg era, India, and the Belle Epoque and raised vital funds that greatly enriched the Costume Institute's programs and exhibitions. She had a feisty wit and a warm heart and was passionately devoted to this institution. Her indomitable spirit and her dedicated, imaginative and charismatic leadership were not only inspiring -they left an indelible mark on the world of fashion as well. We will miss her deeply and extend our sincerest condolences to Bill, Chris and the entire family. James R. Houghton, Chrman Philippe de Montebello, Dir Emily K. Rafferty, President
        $(6$)BUCKLEY--Patricia. The Costume Institute of The Metropolitan Museum of Art and its Visiting Committee mourn the death of our dear friend, Pat Buckley. For almost two decades, she chaired with deftness, humor, and an extraordinary organizational precision, the departments annual benefit. In her advisory role as the Head of The Costume Institutes Visiting Committee, she was an enthusiastic advocate for an exhibition program and acquisitions that favored the unexpected and untested and celebrated the exceptional. We will deeply miss the pungency of her affectionate critiques that steered us straight, delivered with a dip of her chin, and her unbridled generosity masked by her chic, worldly, and ironic affect.
        $(6$)BUCKLEY--Patricia. The Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers family mourns the loss of our longtime friend and loyal benefactor, Patricia Buckley, whose efforts in supporting patients suffering from AIDS will never be forgotten. Patricia Buckley's spirit and generosity were a treasured part of St. Vincent's for many years. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, William F. Buckley, Jr. and her son, Christopher Buckley. Alfred E. Smith, IV, Chairman, and the Board of Trustees of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers
      