
        CRISP--Mary Dent, 83, passed on in her home in Phoenix, AZ on March 24, 2007. Born in Allentown, PA, she was the seventh child of Elizabeth Patch Dent and Harry Dent. Always positive and inspired by the world around her, Mary graduated in 1946 from Oberlin College and in 1948, married William Crisp with whom she reared three children. Mary's passion for this nation and its people led her into politics in which she remained active throughout her life. She began her service as a Deputy Registrar working at a grass roots level and ultimately was elected Republican National Committeewoman in Arizona in 1972 and Secretary of the Republican National Convention in 1976. Mary served as Co-Chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1977 until 1980 when, as the last official act of her term, she challenged the GOP's abandonment of the Equal Rights Amendment and their anit-abortion platform in her speech to the national convention. She chaired the Presidential Campaign of John Anderson and served as the National Director of Business Executives for National Security from 1984 through the mid-1990s. Holding principle over politics, Mary graciously and effectively worked during the following decades with members on both sides of the aisle to promote issues of women's freedom, opportunity, choice and peace. Mary was elected to the boards of numerous organizations including the National Political Women's Caucus, National ACLU, National Advocacy Board of Planned Parenthood, Project Vote Smart and the Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of Free Expression, and was a founder of the Republican National Coalition for Choice. Admired for her unwavering commitment to her country and a political system she greatly believed in, Mary was featured in numerous books and publications throughout her career. Her memoirs and correspondences are housed in the Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe College. Mary cared deeply about humanity as exhibited by her unique ability to help others see their own goodness, always having time to witness another with her compassion and grace. Well traveled both internationally and nationally, she loved most exploring the wilds of nature with her family, and in particular, hiking the Grand Canyon, which she did for the last time at the age of 69. She returned to live in Arizona in 2005. Mary Dent Crisp is survived by her son, William Dent Crisp, two daughters, Barbara Crisp and Anne Crisp of Phoenix, two grandchildren, Brian and Jessica Crisp, her brother Richard Dent of Schnecksville, PA, her sister Jesse Dent Cook of Arlington, VA, many nieces and nephews, and her companion, William Tayler. She is predeceased by her sister Jane and her four brothers Hal, Charlie, Jack and Pete. A memorial service will be held at Ingleside at Rock Creek, 3050 Military Road NW, Washington DC on May 19, 2007 at 2pm. Memorial contributions may be sent to: The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, Grand Central Station P.O. Box 4777, New York, NY 10163. 800-708-7644 or The Grand Canyon Trust, 2601 N. Fort Valley Road, Flagstaff, AZ 86001. 928-774-7488
      