
        GARDNER--Milton M., M.D., a well-known obstetrician and gynecologist on Long Island, distinguished by his personal warmth, grace and elegance, died of natural causes at age 93 on April 22 in Glen Cove, NY. One of four children of Samuel and Bella Gardner, he was born on March 17, 1914 in New York's Lower East Side. His family soon moved to Brooklyn where he attended Erasmus High School. He began his undergraduate studies at Brooklyn College and then matriculated at Arkansas University, where he completed his B.S. and M.D. degrees. He joined the US Public Health Service and, at the start of WWII, was assigned to the US Coast Guard, serving on the USS Charlotte, a destroyer escort in the North Atlantic, as ship's doctor with the rank of Lieutenant. After the war, he completed his residency in obsterics and gynecology in Boston, MA and moved back to NYC. In 1948 he married Madeleine Murphy, whom he met in Buffalo, NY when both were in uniform during the war. (She was a Major in the WACS). After living in NYC, they moved to Levittown, NY where he established one of the first OB/GYN practices in this booming post-war community. Eventually, he established a second office in Merrick, with professional associations at Hempstead General Hospital and Memorial Hospital, and he was named Chief of Obsterics and Gynecology at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, NY. The Gardner's also lived in Merricak, where they raised their five children: Leslie Gardner Pantucci, Deborah GardnerGray, Cecilia L. Gardner, Samuel Gardner and Mara Gardner. A devoted husband, father and grandfather, adored brother and uncle, he was a dedicated community member and medical professional whose great passion was modern art. As an arts enthusiast, he had a passionate interest in the burgeoning post-war NYC and Long Island art scene and a keen eye as a collector. He was generous with his knowledge and his collection, leading the establishment of the Friends of the Emily Lowe Gallery at Hofstra University and donating many works of art to Hofstra University (where he was also a trustee), Smith College and the Brooklyn, Parrish and Heckscher Museums. A longtime resident of Water Mill, NY, he was truly and ardent ''gardener,'' who delighted in cultivating his beautiful Japanese garden at the waterfront home on Mecox Bay that he built with Madeleine. Madeleine Gardner died in 1983. He later married Mayda Lannick, who survives him along with his five children, daughter-and-sons-in-law and nine grandchildren, all of whom loved him dearly and are thankful for his long, full and very happy life. The funeral service will take place Tuesday, April 24th at 10am at the Riverside Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza in Great Neck, NY. Contributions may be made to the Milton M. Gardner Endowed Scholarship Fund at Hofstra University.
      