
        NOALL--Roger, of New York City and Naples, FL, died suddenly on March 29, 2007, in Naples at the age of 71. He was born on April 1, 1935, to the late Albert Edward Noall and Mabel Sorenson Noall in Brigham City, UT. He graduated from the University of Utah in 1955 in two years with Honors. He completed his LL.B. from Harvard Law School in 1958 where he was a member of the Harvard Law Review and graduated cum laude. In 1959, he completed his LL.M. at the New York University Law School; and in 1973, completed an Advanced Management Program at the Harvard Business School. From 1959 to 1967, Roger practiced law in New York primarily at the firm of Olwine, Connelly, Chase, O'Donnell & Weyher where he became a Partner in 1965. From 1967 to 1983, he worked at Bunge Corporation, an agribusiness where he held positions including Director, Executive Vice President, Treasurer, and Controller. From 1983 to his retirement, Roger worked in Cleveland for various bank holding companies including Centran Corporation and Society Corporation. He retired in 2000 from KeyCorp where he held a variety of executive positions including Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, and General Counsel and Secretary. He served on several boards, most recently for Alleghany Corporation and Victory Capital Management. A man of many diverse interests, Roger completed 13 NYC Marathons, summited Mt. Kilimanjaro, hiked extensively in Africa and Europe, and played tennis and backgammon throughout his life. His passions were dedicated to books, lifelong learning, world travel, and the arts and, most importantly, to the enjoyment of his family and his many friends. Roger is survived by his devoted wife, Colleen Mannion Noall; his sons, Brennan Courtney (Kelly) Noall of Ft. Myers, FL and Tyler Grey (Alison) Noall of Cleveland, OH; five grandchildren, Rachel, Weston, Madison, Lauren, and Dylan; his sister, Ruth Noall (Flint) Dickson; and his brother, David (Pat) Noall, both of Salt Lake City, UT. He will be missed by all those whose lives he touched. Contributions in Roger's memory may be made to Doctors Without Borders or the New York Central Park Conservancy. A private celebration of Roger's life will be held in New York at a later date.
        $(6$)NOALL--Roger. The best and the brightest. A man for all seasons. We will always have warm memories of his enthusiasm, generous spirit, and our many good times together. We will miss him. Phyllis and Murray Warschauer
      