
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. You taught us all how to discover our voice and our spirit, to find our light, and to shine like the glow of your glorious smile. I will always remember and love you. Ted Berger $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Musical Instruments Department of The Metropolitan Museum of Art is deeply saddened by the death of our Leading Lady Kitty Carlisle Hart, Co-Chair of our Visiting Committee. She enlivened our events, our meetings, our galleries, our lives. She will always be ''Something wonderful'' to us. J. Kenneth Moore, Frederick P. Rose Curator in Charge, Musical Instruments Department Mrs. Thatcher M. Brown, Co - Chair, Musical In struments Visiting Committee $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Directors of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend and cultural leader. Her elegant presence will be missed at our annual galla. Page Morton Black, Chairman $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. Unparalleled style, elegance, and intelligence, all uniquely yours. How blessed I am with so many memories to hold Hart to heart. You truly were Something Wonderful. Dean Williamson $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Members and Staff of the New York State Council on the Arts express their deep sadness at the passing of their beloved former Chairman, Kitty Carlisle Hart. Affectionately known to us as Kitty, she was a vital mainstay of our agency for more than three decades, dispensing wisdom and charm wherever she went. She was a vibrant and tireless advocate for the arts and she will be missed by the entire arts community. Kitty will always be remembered by us as a colleague and a good friend. She was one of a kind and remains irreplaceable. $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The daughters of Irving Berlin mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. She was a dear friend to our parents and to us. We $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle, The Board and Staff of Americans for the Arts, Arts & Business Council of Americans for the Arts, and Arts & Business Council of New York celebrate the life of Kitty Carlisle Hart. She was a beacon for all of the arts and a tireless advocate for public funding for the arts in New York and across the country. We were proud to have honored Ms. Hart last year at the Americans for the Arts' National Arts Awards with an award that has since 1997 borne her name, which celebrates those who lead as artists and advocates. Her legacy and spirit continues. $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization, and the Rodgers and Hammerstein families, note with sadness the passing of our dear friend Kitty Hart. From her performance in the revival of ''On Your Toes'' to her enlightened encouragement of the work of Moss Hart, her enthusiasm and passion for the arts was without equal. We will miss her, but feel blessed to have known her throughout her long and extraordinary life. We send our condolences to Cathy, Chris and their families. $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The directors, board members and staff of The Menninger Clinic in Houston, Texas mourn the passing of our friend and mentor, who has been affiliated with Menninger since 1982, and was the perfect hostess at a relatively recent gettogether on Menninger's behalf at her apartment. Everyone attending came away with a wonderful memory and the impression they had been in the presence of someone very, very special. Ian Aitken President and CEO, The Menninger Clinic
      