
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart, our irrepressible, multi-talanted, and much loved Honorary Trustee, colleague, and friend. Always a celebrated champion of the arts in New York, she turned her personal and professional spotlight on the cultural life of this city and state, first as an artist and later as chair of the New York State Council on the Arts for two decades. She was part of this museum in so many ways--as performer, lecturer, co-chair of our musical instruments visiting committee, advisor, audience member--always gracious, helpful, and wise. We will miss her elegance, vivacity, and wit, and will hold a song in our hearts for this outstanding woman whose zest for life and art did so much to enrich us all. We'll be loving her always. James R. Houghton, Chrman. Philippe de Montebello, Dir. Emily K. Rafferty, President.
        $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Kitty was an Honorary Member of the Museum's Board of Trustees since 1996 and a member of MoMA's Education and Special Events committees. This gifted actress and entertainer was a great friend of the Museum. We will remember Kitty for her grace, charm, fearless advocacy of the arts, and for her very special performance as the honoree of the Museum's Party in the Garden in 1999. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter Catherine, her son Christopher, and three grandchildren. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director
        $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. We mourn the loss of Kitty Carlisle Hart, Honorary Life Director of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute. She was a faithful Board member who graced the Institute's programs with her presence and her voice. Richard E. French, Jr., Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, Co-Chairs Franklin and Eleanor RooseveltInstitute
        $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The residents of 32 East 64th Street mourn the passing of our dear friend and Board member, Kitty Carlisle Hart. Kitty's grace and warmth have touched all who knew her. It was a privilege and honor to be a part of her daily life, and her loss will be felt by all of us. Rhetta Felton, President, 32 East 64th Street Board
        $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The friends of the Arthur Ross Gallery at the University of Pennsylvania mourn the loss of our former beloved Chairman, Kitty Carlisle Hart. The memory of her inspiring presence, wisdom, wit and generous nature will be cherished. We extend deep condolences to her children, Christopher Hart, and her daughter, Dr. Catherine Hart Stoeckle, and their families. Adele Chatfield-Taylor, Chairman
      