
        CHILEWICH--Simon, long time resident of New York City passed away April 24th, 2007 at age 88. Simon was born in Poland, but soon after immigrating to his new country in 1939, he served in World War II as an army intelligence officer in the United States Army. Thereafter, he rejoined the family business, Chilewich Sons and Company, which became a prominent, international, commodity trading firm based in New York. Simon was very instrumental in forging strong commercial ties with the former Soviet Union during much of the Cold War years. He strongly believed at the time that commercial ties were necessary in order to build a meaningful foundation for the development of peaceful relationships between the two nations. He opened the first official American trading offices in Moscow in 1972, from which he could represent many western firms also dedicated to developing business connections with the Soviets. After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, he continued to help with the establishment of several new commercial organizations emerging from the old system. He has been a civic leader in New Rochelle and Westchester County for many years where he was active in local politics with his former wife, Norma. Like his father Aaron before him, Simon was involved in many philanthropic efforts, especially in regards to the support of several universities here and in the State of Israel. He also followed in the footsteps of his father with an active support of the American Friends of Ben Gurian University of the Negev, in Israel, and the United Jewish Appeal, where he chaired the Hide and Leather Division on several occasions. With his support, the Chilewich Family also helped with the formation of a number of small businesses in the young Jewish nation. His numerous activities of helping small minority-owned businesses and others became known as Simon's ''Better World Department''. Simon Chilewich graduated from the London School of Economics before the War and had a true love of the Arts. He spent much of his life supporting and encouraging a number of artists in the music and art fields, some born here and others whom he assisted in immigrating to this country where they could pursue artistic freedom. He was later joined in this passion for the arts by his beloved late wife, Virginia Kaye Chilewich, a well-known former actress in her own right. Simon Chilewich is survived by sons, Melvin Chilewich of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, and Martin David Chilewich of Los Angeles, California, and his daughter, Sandra Chilewich Sultan, of New York City. He is also survived by seven grandchildren, seven greatgrandchildren, two step-sons, and five step-grandchildren, for which he was truly blessed and for all of whom he showed immense love. He will be warmly missed and remembered by the many people he touched around the globe. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY. Close friends and family are invited to attend services which will commence at 12:30 pm, on Wednesday, April 25, 2007.
      