
        VARET--Frances Goldberg. Died peacefully at home on April 24th age 91. Beloved wife of the late Guster V. Varet and adored mother of Ellen Bock and Michael A. Varet. Also survived by her devoted grandchildren, Lauren Schwartz and her husband Adam, Joseph Varet, Sarah Varet and David Varet, her darling great-granddaughter, Alexandra Schwartz, her daughter - in - law Elizabeth Varet and son-in-law Charles Bock. Graduate of the Class of 1935 at Long Island University and for many years a much admired teacher of English at Midwood High School where she especially enjoyed her work with students who needed to improve their reading skills. Funeral will be private. The family will observe Shiva at the home of Elizabeth and Michael Varet on Thursday from 5pm until 8pm, Friday afternoon from 2pm until 5pm, Sunday from 2pm until 8pm, and Monday and Tuesday from 6:30pm until 9pm. In lieu of flowers the family would appreciate contributions to the Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale, 475 West 250th Street, Riverdale, NY 10471, or to the UJA-Federation of Greater New York, 130 East 59th Street, New York, NY 10022.
        $(6$)VARET--Frances Goldberg. The Board of Directors of Plaza Jewish Community Chapel extends its deepest sympathy to Board Member Michael Varet and his family on the loss of his mother, Frances Varet. May her memory be a blessing for all who mourn. Al Engleberg, President Andrew Fier, Executive Director
        $(6$)VARET--Frances. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Frances Varet, beloved mother of Michael Varet and mother-in-law of Elizabeth Varet. Elizabeth and Michael's dedication, expressed through their leadership and boundless generosity, sets an example of philanthropic leadership imbued with compassionate generosity and the spirit of klal Yisrael, which profoundly impacts our community and enriches the lives of millions in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Elizabeth and Michael; to their children, Joseph, Sarah, and David; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      