
        FINLAY--John R., M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary deeply mourns the passing of an esteemed physician and colleague for more than 55 years. Dr. Finlay completed his Ophthalmology residency at the Infirmary and later became a surgeon director. He was an early investigator of intraocular lenses and an ophthalmic pathologist, as well as teacher and mentor to many. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Peter Frelinghuysen, Chairman, Board of Directors Joseph B. Walsh, M.D., Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology J. Robert Rosenthal, M.D., Vice President, Medical Affairs Joseph P. Corcoran, President & CEO $(6$)FINLAY--John R, M.D., Dr. John R. Finlay, a pilot, explorer, and Ophthalmologist, died at his home in North Salem, NY, on April 14 at age 86. Dr. Finlay, a New York native, earned his undergraduate degree from City College of New York and his medical degree from Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia. He met his wife Vera, also a physician, at Hahnemann. She was a Greenwich Hospital Pathologist for many years and died in 1994. Dr. Finlay completed his Ophthalmology residency at New York Eye and Ear Infirmary and later became a Surgeon Director there. He was published as an early investigator of Intraocular Lenses and was a founding member of the New York Intraocular Lens Society. He was also a Professor at NYU School of Medicine where he taught courses in Ophthalmic Pathology. Dr. Finlay obtained his pilot license with instrument rating and flew his Beachcraft Baron to destinations as far as Alaska and Brazil. He is a past President of the Flying Physicians Association. He was a member of the Explorers Club of Manhattan and the International Order of Characters, a group of experimental aviators. Dr. Finlay traveled extensively, often to remote areas of the world, and taught surgical techniques to Ophthalmologists in the Philippines, Tunisia, China, Brazil, Russia and Sri Lanka. He volunteered with the ship Hope and with Orbis, an airplane-based eye hospital. Dr. Finlay was also an avid windsurfer and sailor at his home of 40 years in Byram, CT. He won the President's Cup in his Flying Scott in 1962. He also loved to ride at his current home in North Salem, NY, and to ski near his farm in Vermont. He is survived by his son John R. Finlay, Esq., and daughter-in-law Rita St. Germaine, their son Alexander S. Finlay, his daughter Dr. Alexis Finlay and son-in-law Matthew Eliott DVM, his granddaughter Fiona Finlay-Hunt, and his close companion Gisela Kara. A memorial service is planned for June in New York City. In lieu of flowers please send donations to: The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, 310 E. 14th St., NY, NY 10013.
      