
        COXE--Eckley B. The Trustees of Freedom Institute express profound sorrow at the death of Eckley B. Coxe and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Buzzy served for many years as a member of the Institute's Board. He was a loyal supporter and a true friend. He will be missed. Nancy I. Stahl, Chairman Connie Murray, President
        $(6$)COXE--Eckley B. Eckley Brinton Coxe IV, 84, of Hobe Sound, Florida, and East Hampton, New York, died Wednesday, April 8, at home in Florida. Born May 4, 1922 in Philadelphia, PA, to Mary Owens Coxe and Eckley B. Coxe III, Buzz Coxe was a senior partner at Scudder, Stevens & Clark for many years. He was a caring husband, father and grandfather who participated meaningfully in a large number of charitable and community activities throughout his life. A graduate of Andover School and Yale University, he most recently served as councilman, commissioner, and vicemayor of Hobe Sound as well as a board member of the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, FL, where he contributed an MRI machine for the use of the community. Most recently, he was president and chairman of the Jupiter Island Clinic in Hobe Sound. In East Hampton, he was a vestryman at St. Luke's Church, a past president of the The Maidstone Club, and a board member at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, NY. In Greenwich, CT, where he lived with his first wife, nee Judith Gratz, from 1944 to 1972, he was chairman of the Red Cross of Greenwich, president of the Greenwich Field Club, a member of the board of trustees of the Round Hill Club, and chairman of the board of trustees of the Greenwich Country Day School. He is survived by his wife, Susie Skidmore Coxe; two sons, Eckley Brinton Coxe V of Greenwich, CT, and Alexander B. Coxe, of Chicago, Ill.; two daughters, Sandra Coxe Ankarcrona of London, England, and Audrey Coxe Cadwallader of Darien CT; 11 grandchildren; two sisters, Mary Schueler of Delray Beach, FL, and Louisa Finch of North Palm Beach, FL; and two stepchildren, Catherine Harris Shraga and David Harris of New York City. Another sister, Elizabeth Coxe Spalding of Prouts Neck, ME, died earlier. The funeral will be held in Hobe Sound on Saturday at 4:00 p.m. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Jupiter Island Medical Clinic, 100 Estrada Square, Hobe Sound, FL 33455.
      