
        KRAMER--Carole A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Philatelic Foundation wishes to extend our heartfelt sympathy to Chairman George J. Kramer on the passing of his beloved Carole. Robert G. Rose, Vice Chairman
        $(6$)KRAMER--Carole Arch, age 70, died peacefully on April 26, 2007 after a battle with melanoma. Carole was born in Harrisburg, PA and lived with her husband of 47 years, George, in Clifton, NJ and Peru, VT. Carole attended the University of Pennsylvania where she studied Journalism and distinguished herself as President of the Freshman Class in 1954, President of the Delta Phi Epsilon Sorority, President of the Alumni Class of 1958 and First Chief Justice of Women's Supreme Court. She also received the University of Pennsylvania Outstanding Graduate Award from the American Association of Undergraduate Women. Carole devoted herself to a life of community service in Greater Clifton-Passaic and served as President and Co-President of the Sisterhood of Temple Emanuel, Editor of the Temple Emanuel Newsletter, President of the Women's Auxiliary of Beth Israel Hospital, Chairwomen of the Womens Division and General Chairman of the United Jewish Campaign of the Jewish Federation of Greater Clifton-Passaic, and as a Member of the Beautification Committee of the City of Clifton. She traveled the world with her husband and is a member of the Seven Continents Society. She also ran a personalized stationery business, Pretty Papers, for over 30 years. Carole's dogs were her passion. Her beloved Champion Kismet Pearlbrook Andante, Champion Touches Cartel of Ashford and Champion Touches Pearlbrook Heartbreak each won the Best of Breed award at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show and she served as President of the Lowchen Club of America and as Secretary of the Garden State Non - Sporting Group. Carole's philatelic collection, For the Love of Dogs, won two National Gold Medals and will be exhibited at the Philatelic World Championships this June in St. Petersburg, Russia. Carole is survived by her husband, George, her brother, Martin, her mother-in-law, Adeline, three children, four grandchildren, four Lowchens and the many lives that she has touched and enriched. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, April 29, 1:30pm, at the Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Road, Clifton, New Jersey and burial will take place on Monday, April 30, 2pm, at the Park Lawn Cemetery, Bennington, VT. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Wylies Day Foundation, 1434 Treetop Lane, Ambler PA 19102 and to the Second Chance Animal Center, P.O. Box 620, Shaftsbury, VT 05262.
      