
        SZOGYI--Alex, esteemed professor, devoted friend and dear mentor. He brought the world of George Sand to light and to life. Natalie Datlof: Merrick, NY $(6$)SZOGYI--Alex (1929 - 2007), who served as chairperson of Hunter College's Romance Language Department for seven years left us on Monday, April 23. Professor Szogyi's academic accomplishments included more than forty years as a professor at Universities including Yale University, Wesleyan College, CUNY Graduate Center, and Hunter College. He received his undergraduate degree in Mathematics from Brooklyn College and a Ph.D. in French from Yale University. Professor Alex Szogyi was an expert in seventeenth century French literature and advised numerous Ph.D. theses. Professor Szogyi is a former president of Phi Beta Kappa and studied at the Sorbonne in Paris. Alex Szogyi was known for his varied interests and contributions to the theater, film, food, and astrological worlds. He cofounded the APA Theatre Company with Rosemary Harris and Ellis Rabb and the New York chapter of the George Sand Society. He acted in the French film Balzac starring Jeane Moreau and Gerard Depardieu whom he considered dear friends. He was responsible for Lillian Hellman teaching at Hunter College and was a friend of Patricia Highsmith who dedicated one of her novels to Alex. Alex Syogyi did hundreds of astrological consultations with clients ranging from Whoopi Goldberg and Candicae Bergen to Ruth Reichl and was an expert graphologist. He was a food critic with the Village Voice and contributed articles to both Bon Apatite and Gourmet magazines. Professor Szogyi was a member of New York's Century Club. He translated every play written by Anton Chekhov into English and had several of these plays produced in theater productions including OffBroadway. His translation of Maxim Gorky's The Lower Depths is still being produced throughout the country. He was also an expert on the works of the painter Caravaggio. Alex Szogyi was a published Author in the United States and France with works including his novel Carnaval, and books on the pleasures of chocolate, Moliere, and the fables of La Fontaine with preface by Jeanne Moreau and illustrations by Claudine Suret - Canale. Professor Szogyi was a member of the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures (NBR) in New York City. Professor Alex Szogyi is survived by his beloved life-partner of forty-six years Philip ''Bill'' Thompson.
      