
        VONNEGUT--Kurt. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of iconoclastic author and staunch friend of civil liberties, Kurt Vonnegut. Vonnegut's wise, freethinking writing touched Americans of all ages, and his steadfast support of civil liberties over his lifetime was uncompromising. He was a long-time and proud member of the ACLU. In 1973, the ACLU successfully sued a North Dakota school district on behalf of a schoolteacher who taught his famous novel Slaughterhouse-Five, which a local minister had called ''a tool of the devil,'' in the classroom. Vonnegut told the New York Times in September 2003, ''What I've said again and again is that if any official from a dogcatcher on up treats you in a way in which is clearly unconstitutional don't call the F.B.I., call the ACLU.'' The ACLU extends its deepest sympathy to Jill Krementz and the entire Vonnegut family on the loss of a great man. $(6$)VONNEGUT--Kurt. Kurt Vonnegut with his dog Flour on his favorite bench in Dag Hammarskjold Plaza. The Turtle Bay Association is saddened by the loss of Kurt Vonnegut, renowned author who shaped modern American literature, and a resident and chronicler of the Manhattan neighborhood of Turtle Bay. We will miss both his voluminous good humor, as well as his work as a community activist in preserving the quality of life in Turtle Bay. We join his wife Jill Krementz, daughter Lily Vonnegut, and dog Flour, in their immeasurable loss. In accordance with his wife and daughter's wishes, and in lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Turtle Bay Association, 224 East 47 St., New York, NY 10017. $(6$)VONNEGUT--Kurt. Jacob, Medinger & Finnegan, Peter A. Cross and Donald C. Farber are deeply saddened by the death of our good friend and client. We send warm wishes to the family. Every experience with Kurt was one that always left us feeling good and laughing, even when he was not happy with the injustices he envisioned in the world around him. Kurt was a profound thinker, a truly sensitive, caring person who empathized with all people, without any consideration of their station in life or where they hailed from. His life and work are an inspiration to all of us. We will miss him very much.
      