
        GRANT--William R., 82, Venture capitalist, investment banker, and philanthropist passed away Sunday, April 15, 2007, following a year's illness from metastatic melanoma. He is survived by his beloved wife, Adele Grant, and is predeceased by his beloved wife of 43 years, Dorothy Annetta Grant, a son, Gregory Scott Grant, and a daughter, Melissa Grant Davis. Mr. Grant is survived by his daughters, Deborah S. Grant and Elise Grant Seeley Lauinger and his son, Byron A. Grant, and two grandchildren, Jeremy Deschapelles Seeley and Molly Hall Seeley. A Mass of Resurrection will be celebrated at 3pm on Thursday, April 19th, at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Avenue, New York City. Burial services will be private. In lieu of flowers, his family requests that donations be made to the Gregorian University Foundation, 106 West 56th Street, New York, NY 10019. $(6$)GRANT--William R. Bill, you were an inspiration to us in every aspect of life from family, philanthropy, business, and spiritually. You were a mentor, a trusted friend, confidant, and running coach. Our thoughts, prayers, and love are with your family, wife Adele, daughters Debbie and Elise, and son Sandy. We will miss you terribly. Jill and Barry Lafer $(6$)GRANT--William R. The Gregorian Consortium in Rome--the Pontifical Gregorian University, the Pontifical Biblical Institute and the Pontifical Oriental Institute-joins the Gregorian University Foundation in the United States as it mourns the loss of its longtime Vice Chairman, William R. Grant. For 18 years his creative and challenging leadership, his exceptional dedication and remarkable generosity, his insightful and inspiring advice and wise counsel and his affectionate and caring friendship endeared him to his fellow trustees and to administrators, faculty and students in Rome. We will surely miss this loving and loved exemplary human being. We extend our deepest sympathy and affectionate concern to his beloved wife Adele and to his loving children, Byron (Cynthia), Deborah and Elise (Joseph) Lauinger; and to his grandchildren, Jeremy D. Seeley and Molly Hall Seeley. Peter P. Mullen, Chairman Ellen Shafer, Vice Chairperson Rev. Robert F. O'Toole, S.J., President Rev. Prof. Gianfranco Ghirlanda, S.J., Rector, Gregorian University Rev. Prof. Stephen F. Pisano, S.J., Rector, Biblical Institute Rev. Prof. Hector Vall, Rector, S.J., Oriental Institute $(6$)GRANT--William R. The trustees, administration, faculty and staff, students, parents, and alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of a dear friend. The Sacred Heart community will cherish the memory of Bill's generous spirit and remember his wife, Adele, and his entire family in perpetual prayer.
      