
        JOSEPH--Richard V., 51, of Manhattan, passed away on April 26th at home, after a long and courageous struggle with brain cancer. Richard was born in Chicago. He attended high school in Tarrytown, NY, and moved to NYC at the age of 19. In his heart, he always was and always will be a City guy. His lifelong love of music is reflected in his choice of careers. He was the general manager at the Bitter End in Greenwich Village and, in the late 70's, was stage manager at the Bottom Line. During the late 70's and early 80's, he worked on the road for a variety of groups and performers including The Knack and the Rolling Stones. In the late 80's he founded his own travel company, Travel Tech, which specialized in travel arrangements and logistics for some of the world's largest touring bands. His clients included Paul Simon, AC/DC, Metallica, Barney, Prince, Janet Jackson, David Bowie, Bon Jovi, the Rolling Stones, Tina Turner, U2, and The Wiggles. He was a great guy who was loved by all he met, from rock stars to roadies. He will never be forgotten by the life-long friends he made while in the business, including Marc and Susan, Roger and Fitz, Jake and so many more. He was predeceased by his father, Richard C. Joseph. He is survived by his devoted and beloved wife, Meg, who cared for him with so much love during his illness. She was his rock, and she remains one now for all who knew and loved Richard. His truly loved and adored daughter, Florence ''Flory'' Lorraine Joseph, will always be their true treasure and greatest gift he has given to the friends and family he has left behind. Also surviving are his loving mother and stepfather, Lorraine and Charles Strachan of Guntersville, AL, his devoted sister, Linda Joseph of Moffat, CO, his wife's brothers and sisters and their children, who found their uncle to be one of the coolest and funniest guys on the planet. Services are being handled by Charles Peter Nagel, Inc., at 352 East 87th St. (between 1st and 2nd Ave.) in Manhattan. Visitation will be on Tuesday, May 1st, from 2 to 5 PM and from 7 to 9 PM. A Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated at Holy Trinity RC Church, 213 West 82nd St, on Wednesday, May 2, at 11 AM. A reception will follow after Mass in the parish center. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers his family asks that donations be made in his honor to ''Have A Chance'', 26 School House Rd., Morristown, NJ, 07960 (www.haveachance.org) or the New York Brain Tumor Project at the New York Weill Cornell Medical Center, 525 E 68th St, NY, NY 10021.
      