
        HARTMAN--John Wheeler. Management, Innovator, Author, Philanthropist. John Wheeler Hartman of Ocean Reef, Key Largo, Florida, died on April 5th, 2007 at the age of 84. He was predeceased by his wife of 56 years, Esther Kelly Bill Hartman. In 1946. Mr. Hartman was one of the founders of Bacon, Hartman and Vollbrecht, a St. Augustine and Jacksonville, Florida advertising agency. After joining the sales department of Bill Communications, Inc., a New York city-based magazine publisher, he became its Chief Executive Officer in 1957, and later Chairman of the Board. In 1975, Mr. Hartman introduced the publishing industry's first decentralized participatory management plan and Employee Stock Ownership Trust. Bill employees at all levels were encouraged to make management contributions and decisions. Several of Mr. Hartman's unconventional innovations, such as his ''Bottoms Up Management'' theory, remain to this day as case studies at Harvard's Business School. Mr. Hartman's witty writings appeared in a column he titled Second Thoughts, which was originally published in Sales & Marketing Management magazine. He has authored nine books including More Second Thoughts and Maverick Management. He later became a contributing columnist to other publications, such as Advertising Age, Business Marketing, and the Ocean Reef Free Press. Mr. Hartman, and his wife Kelly's philanthropy established the Hartman Center for MidSized Company Education and Research at the Fuqua Graduate School of Business and the Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising and Marketing History at the college library. The Hartman's also donated 300 acres to the Town of Lyme, CT., to create the Hartman Park. Mr. Hartman was born in Detroit, Michigan, and attended Colgate University before receiving his Bachelor's degree from Duke University. He served as a Lieutenant JG in the U.S. Navy during World War II and participated in the D-Day invasion of Normandy on June 6th, 1944. He wrote for the U.S. Navy's newspaper, The Inlander from 194546, and was a correspondent in Florida for United Press International. In 1963, he was elected international president of the Young Presidents Organization, serving as board member and Forum Chairman of the Chief Executives Organization. He founded the Executive Council of the Conference Board and was a member of the World Presidents' Organization. Mr. Hartman is survived by daughter, Kelly H. Sherwood, of Woolwich, Maine; son Raymond Hartman, of Mooresville, NC; grandchildren, Katerina Sterghiou, of Brooklyn, NY, and Nicola Hartman, of San Carlos, CA; a brother, Robert E. Hartman, of Albuquerque, NM; and a sister, Ann Carter, of Darien, CT. $(6$)HARTMANN--Charolotte Sigrid, age 86, February 26, 1921-April 16, 2007. Visiting hours on Tuesday April 24, 2007, 4-8pm. Morehead-McKim-Gallaher, 424 West 51st Street (between 9th and 10th Ave). Funeral Service Wednesday April 25, 2007, 2:30 pm. Church of Transfiguration (Little Church Around the Corner) 1 E. 29th Street.
      