
        LEVERE--Dr. Richard D., age 75, of Marietta, died of heart failure April 23, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated SUNY Downstate Medical School in 1956 and completed his internship and residency at Bellevue and Kings County Hospitals. After serving his country in the armed services, Dr. Levere had a distinguished medical career that included appointment as Chief of Hematology at Downstate Medical Center, Professor and Chairman of Medicine at New York Medical College, Chief of Medicine at Westchester County Medical Center, Vice President of Medical Affairs at Westchester County Medical Center, St. Agnes Hospital and the Brooklyn Hospital Center. He held professorships at New York Medical College, Rockefeller University, New York University, and the Weill Cornell School of Medicine. He served as Vice Dean at New York Medical College and Associate Dean at New York University Medical School. He was President of Cantigny Research Foundation and Director of the Lang Research Center. He served in leadership positions in many organizations, including the Wellness Community of Atlanta, Resurgens Charitable Foundation, Leukemia Society of America, and the American Heart Association. Dr. Levere was the recipient of numerous awards, including the William Dock Teaching Award, membership in the Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Honor Society, and the Tinsley Harrison Research Award. He was Governor of the New York Chapter of the American College of Physicians, a Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, and an active member of many medical societies. Apart from all of his academic and administrative accomplishments, fundamentally, Dr. Richard D. Levere was a teacher of physicians. He taught literally thousands of medical students, internal medicine residents and faculty, thereby favorably and profoundly affecting their professional lives. He served as their role model at the bedside, teaching both clinical reasoning and a respectful, compassionate approach toward patients. He was recognized as a Master of the American College of Physicians, a designation reserved for very few accomplished physicians. Dr. Levere is survived by his wife, Diane; son, Dr. Scott M. Levere, Atlanta; daughters, Elyssa C. Levere, Esq., Marietta and Corinne G. Levere-Latter and her husband Daniel F. Latter, Esq., Los Angeles, CA; brothers and sisters-in-law, Herbert and his wife, Barbara Levere, Vero Beach, FL, and Julius and his wife Ann Levere, Roslyn, NY; and grandchildren, Isabella Mae Levere, Jenna Claire Latter, and Samuel Kolmo Levere. He was preceded in death by his brother, Dr. Arthur Levere. Graveside services will be held on Friday, April 27 at 11:00am at Arlington Memorial Park (Atlanta) with Rabbi Scott Saulson officiating. Following the funeral, guests are welcome to the Levere home, beginning at 1:00pm. Please sign on-line guest book: www.edressler.com. In lieu of flowers, please make memorial contributions to The Wellness Community, 5780 Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Atlanta, GA 30342; or Resurgens Charitable Foundation, 5671 Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 700, Atlanta, GA 30342. Services by Dressler's Jewish Funeral Care, Atlanta, 770-451-4999.
        $(6$)LEVERE--Richard D. New York Medical College is saddened by the loss of our esteemed colleague, Richard D. Levere, M.D., former professor of medicine, who served as chairman of the department from 1977 to 1993. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Ronald F. Poe, Chairman Board of Trustees Karl P. Adler, M.D. President and CEO Ralph A. O'Connell, M.D. Provost and Dean School of Medicine
      