
        ULTAN--Dr. Leslie Barry was born on November 12, 1934 in New York City as the second child and son to late parents Carl and Blanche. Dr. Ultan grew up in Bayside, New York with his parents and older brother, Lloyd, where he attended Bayside High School. After graduating with the Class of 1951, he attended Yale University, where he earned his Bachelor's degree in Economics and Political Science. While at Yale and on a visit home, Dr. Ultan met Susan Drezner at a sweet sixteen party for a mutual friend, and she became his beloved life partner. Following his college graduation in 1955, Dr. Ultan attended N.Y.U. School of Medicine, and he and Susan were married. After earning his medical degree in 1959, he did his internship at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, New York and then a residency in internal medicine at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. Between these trainings he served his country and the U.S. Public Health Service as Heart Disease Control Officer in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He continued to pursue his life's vocation as a heart doctor with a fellowship in cardiology at Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia. Dr. Ultan established his private practice in Trenton and at Helene Fuld Medical Center, where he became Chief of Cardiology, Chairman of the Coronary Care Unit and Coronary Care Committee, Director of the Non-Invasive Cardiovascular Laboratory and Trustee. A Fellow of the American College of Cardiology and Diplomate to the American Board of Internal Medicine and American Board of Cardiovascular Diseases, Dr. Ultan taught at Hahnemann and Rutgers Medical School, published medical journal articles and especially enjoyed mentoring and training paramedics and nurses in pre-hospital care of cardiac patients. Throughout his career, he was an active member of the Mercer County Heart Association, serving as President and Trustee. Frustrated with the number of heart attack patients who were dying while being transported by ambulance to the hospital, Dr. Ultan worked with others to establish in Mercer County one of the nation's first community-sponsored all-volunteer mobile intensive care unit programs. The result of their efforts was the Mercer County Lifemobile Program, which he served as founding Project Director. It has since evolved into the Capital Health System Mobile Intensive Care Unit (M.I.C.U.) and continues to bring the highest level of cardiac care equipment and paramedics and nurses trained to use it directly to patients wherever they need it. This program has saved numerous lives since its inception in 1977. Dr. Ultan was awarded a Mercer County Special Recognition Plaque in 1977 for his work helping found the Lifemobile M.I.C.U. Program and made Chairman of the New Jersey Department of Health's Advisory Committee for Mobile Intensive Care Units. He was also the recipient of Helene Fuld Medical Center's first ever Doctor of the Year Award in 1979 and their Superior Clinical Teaching Award in 1981. In 1984, he was presented with the American Heart Association's Golden Heart Award for his career work in cardiac care. Beloved by his patients and colleagues for his dedication, intelligence, wit, charm and wonderful sense of humor, Dr. Ultan had the ability to make any patient feel better just by his presence. He loved to discuss politics, sports, international relations and current events and was a lifelong New York Yankees fan (converting Susan, who wore Brooklyn Dodger blue when he met her.) He will be sorely missed by his family who survive him: wife of 511/2 years Susan, daughter Robyn, sons Robert and William, daughters-in-law Jill and Lisa and grandchildren Matthew, Emily and Sophia. Condolences can be shared with family members, who will be sitting Shiva in his memory at the family home on the evenings of Monday, April 23, 2007, and Wednesday, April 25, 2007. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be given, in the name of Dr. Leslie Barry Ultan, to Capital Health System Foundation's M.I.C.U. Fund, 408 Bellevue Ave., Trenton, NJ 08618, so that such gifts will continue Dr. Ultan's lifelong pursuit of saving and improving lives. Patients, colleagues, community members and all who want to pay their respects are invited to attend a memorial service to celebrate his life, to be held at 11:00 am Thursday, April 26, 2007 at Adath Israel Congregation, 1958 Lawrenceville Road, Lawrenceville, NJ.
      