
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Kitty was an Honorary Member of the Museum's Board of Trustees since 1996 and a member of MoMA's Education and Special Events committees. This gifted actress and entertainer was a great friend of the Museum. We will remember Kitty for her grace, charm, fearless advocacy of the arts, and for her very special performance as the honoree of the Museum's Party in the Garden in 1999. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter Catherine, her son Christopher, and three grandchildren. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. What a dear friend you have been over the decades -such grace and charm. Your steadfast support of rehabilitation medicine and our programs at the United Nations added dignity to our concept of ''Rusk Without Walls''. The Rusk Institute acknowledges your vibrant advocacy of its endeavor to recognize music as an international language and music as an integral component of rehabilitation therapy. To your family we share their loss and grateful that you touched our lives. Mathew Lee, M.D. Howard A. Rusk, Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine NYU School of Medicine Medical Director Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of its loyal friend and tireless champion, Kitty Carlisle Hart. She sang 15 performances as Orlofsky in ''Die Fledermaus'' with our company in 1967, but it was as an ever present advocate for the Met and all of the arts that we owe her our greatest debt of gratitude. Her charm, glamour, warmth, and wit will not soon be forgotten. We offer our sincerest condolences to her family and friends. Peter Gleb General Manager James Levine, Music Director $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. Two miserable kids in a Swiss boarding school: Kitty and me -weeping daily -as I do now for the loss of my oldest friend. Lora Hays $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Members and Staff of the New York State Council on the Arts express their deep sadness at the passing of their beloved former Chairman, Kitty Carlisle Hart. Affectionately known to us as Kitty, she was a vital mainstay of our agency for more than three decades, dispensing wisdom and charm wherever she went. She was a vibrant and tireless advocate for the arts and she will be missed by the entire arts community. Kitty will always be remembered by us as a colleague and a good friend. She was one of a kind and remains irreplaceable. $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. Champion of the arts for New York State, she led us with grace, a commitment to artists and free expression, and a passion for ensuring art in the daily lives of all. She charmed all with her ''Governor Darling'' requests. We celebrate a life that requires us to speak for the potential of the human spirit. New York City Arts Coalition
      