
        LEVINE--Joshua. The attorneys and staff of Davis & Gilbert LLP are profoundly saddened by the death of our partner and mentor Josh Levine, a brilliant lawyer, compassionate friend, and loving husband, father and grandfather. A ''lawyer's lawyer'', Josh joined our firm in 1937 and, but for his service in the United States Army during the Second World War, gave his next 49 years to our practice, retiring in 1986. Even then, he would return often to offer his guidance, support and warmth of heart. Once described by Mary Wells Lawrence as the best agency lawyer in the business, Josh was an expert in, indeed he developed much of, the law of advertising. Among his many devoted clients, was William Bernbach with whom Josh formed the advertising company Doyle Dane Bernbach, precursor to todays Omnicom Group Inc. We are deeply indebted to Josh for his professional abilities, his leadership, his vision and integrity, all of which enhanced our practice and greatly enriched our lives. $(6$)LEVINE--Joshua, a resident of Rye, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, died April 6, 2007, at age 90. Born May 24, 1916, in New York City to Jack and Lillian Levine. Josh served in the U.S. Army during World War II, beginning as a Private and discharged as a Captain. In the European Theater of Operations, he investigated claims against the U.S. by Europeans who suffered noncombat damage. Josh graduated from CCNY and NYU School of Law, where he served as President of the student body Pre-Bar Association. Mr. Levine was formerly the managing partner of Davis & Gilbert, where he spent his entire legal career, starting as a law clerk in 1936. He represented many of his firm's leading clients, including Doyle, Dane Bernbach, Benton & Bowles, Ogilvy & Mather, Weight Watchers International, Muzak, and Best Foods. He successfully lobbied the enactment of legislation permitting the manufacture and sale of yellow margarine. Josh handled a broad range of advertising, corporate and securities law problems and engaged in negotiating and consummating the acquisition of advertising agencies worldwide. He was one of six founders of Beth Emeth Synagogue in Larchmont and served as President. He was active in, and was honored by, UJA. He was an avid fisherman and raconteur. Josh was a righteous man, always maintaining the highest morals. A loving husband, father and Poppy, he touched all who knew him. Survived by his wife, Selene, daughters Judi Levine (Bernie Bornstein), Beth Levine (Henry Abarbanel), and Linda (Eric) Spellman, grandchildren Brett, Sara, Lindsey and Matthew, and brother, Harold. Funeral service Sunday, 11:30 am, Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck, 914381-1809; followed by interment at Sharon Gardens Cemetery. Contributions to UJA or Joshua Levine Scholarship Fund (1938), NYU School of Law, 161 Avenue of the Americans, NY, NY 10013.
      