
        ABELSON--Sandy. A true gentleman to the very end, your support and friendship will never be forgotten. The Goldworm Family $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Heartfelt sympathy to Fran, Jenny, Ken, Michael, and Zoe. Sandy, rest in peace. Helene, Larry, Joanne and Michael $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Gumley Haft mourns the passing of Sanford E. Abelson. We wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to his loving wife, Frances, devoted son, Kenneth, and his entire family. Mr. A., as he was affectionately called, was a true gentleman and taught us the value of respect. He was a man of strong moral character and continually reinforced the notion that good, honesty and truthfulness would always prevail. He was a calming influence and even in the face of adversity, was able to deal with issues in a direct, straight forward manner. As he always reminded us, ''tomorrow is another day''. However, tomorrow will never be the same. Mr. A. was one of a kind. It was a privilege to have known him. Rest in peace, ''Chief''. Daniel Wollman, Chief Executive Officer & the employees of Gumley Haft. $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. How lucky we were to have you in our family. Your warmth, generosity, honesty and lovable sense of humor were a special treasure. A mentor and inspiration to Paul. A grandfather to us all. You will always be in our hearts. We love you. Julie, Paul, Taryn, Jordan and Lindsay $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. A dear lifelong friend and a wonderful, warm and loyal human being. He will be missed greatly. His loss leaves a deep void in our hearts. Fred and Barbara Berman $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Sandy, you were one in a million! We will never forget your warmth, your sweetness, your humor, your singing and your friendship. We loved you and now a lifetime of wonderful memories will keep you with us forever. Lorraine, Richard and Margie $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. I never did get to beat you at tennis!! Rest in peace dear friend. Love, Jo-Ann $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Gramps, thanks for all the love, memories ,and laughter. Jenny, Michael and Zoe
      