
        FLANAGAN - FARRELL-Kathryn Veronica. Kathryn Coady moved through many names in life. Her favorites were Mother and MaMere: Mother to nine, MaMere to 30. To the world, she was Mrs. Flanagan, or Mrs. Flanagan-Farrell, or simply Kate. Let's remember her like that: simply Kate. Kate died of complications from pneumonia on Friday, March 30, in Fairfax, Virginia. Surrounded by her family, she passed with the dignity and strength her generation inspired. She is sleeping now, at 81. Her graceful trip is done. Kate's story is the story of a century. She grew up in Greenwich Village in the 1930s, the daughter of FDNY fire chief Captain John Coady and Cassie O'Brien. One of nine children, Kate met Luis John Flanagan shortly after finishing high school and said ''yes'' when he proposed to her on the Staten Island Ferry, on the same day he graduated from West Point. Barely 18 at the time, Kate waited with her first son until Luis came home wounded from the Battle of the Bulge. After good years in Bridgehampton, NY, and Quincy, MA, Luis accepted a teaching position at the United States Military Academy in 1950. At West Point, Kate raised her nine children, for many years in a white house across the street from the cemetery, a cemetery that filled all too quickly as USMA classes of 1966, 1967, 1968 made their silent return. She raised her kids with elegance and a strong grip, and more than anything she believed in them. She was on their side. Her response when a teacher sent one of her children home with a poor grade? ''Well, she must not know you like I do.'' In 1975, Luis passed after a battle with cancer, and Kate became a single mom. A single mom with three daughters still at home and four little grandchildren already calling her MaMere. A son already at West Point and another headed in that direction. Undeterred, she found a job and bought a redbrick house and began her twelve years as a cadet hostess, grooming homesick cadets for life in the real world. She woke up every morning and drank her coffee and found a way. In 1982, Kate married Edward Leo Farrell, a longtime family friend who fought alongside Luis in World War II. In love again, Kate and Ed travelled to Europe, boated the Hudson, and spent their summers in Cape Cod. Kate turned in her station wagon for a convertible. Ed found a second chance at fatherhood. Widower and widow discovered a new life, and they were happy. When Ed died in 1998, Kate returned to her childhood home of New York City. With flair and a sense of humor, the city girl had returned to her roots for one last show. She would walk to the park and entertain grandchildren visiting her on the upper east side. She would go shopping with her daughters and laugh at the wonder of it all. She often confessed how amazed she was to have started ''all this'' -nine children, thirty grandchildren and now four greatgrandchildren. Our message to her, now that she is gone: there can only ever be one you, Kathryn Coady. And for all of us, you are still here and dancing up a storm. Kathryn is survived by her nine children: Brian Flanagan of Southport, NC; Deirdre FlanaganGaugash of Annapolis, MD; Cassie Sullivan of Fairfax, VA; Patricia Tenney of Ridgefield, CT; Timothy Flanagan of Roxbury, CT; Brendan Flanagan of Peach Tree City, GA; Meaghen FlanaganLeidig of Landenburg, PA; Sheelagh Flanagan of San Francisco, CA; and Brigid Flanagan of New York City, NY. Funeral services will be held on Monday April 9, 2007 at 10:00am at The Chapel of the Most Holy Trinity at the US Military Academy West Point New York. Interment to follow at the Post Cemetery West Point, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Uniformed Fire Fighters Association, Attention: Sheila Pettit, 204 East 23rd St. 5th floor, NY, NY 10010.
      