
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Kitty Carlisle Hart. A true champion of the arts, Kitty was a tireless and persuasive advocate who, as Chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, fought to ensure that culture flourished not only in major urban centers but in rural communities throughout New York State. In 1998, in recognition of her extraordinary service to the cultural community and her unique connection to American music and theater of the 20th century, she was elected an Honorary Trustee of Carnegie Hall. All of us at Carnegie Hall will remember Kitty for her genuine warmth, her charming wit, and her passion for music. We send our heartfelt condolences to her daughter Catherine, her son Christopher, and to her many friends. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of the Board Clive Gillinson, Executive and Artistic Director
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. You taught us all how to discover our voice and our spirit, to find our light, and to shine like the glow of your glorious smile. I will always remember and love you. Ted Berger
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. We mourn the passing of this amazing woman who leaves as her lasting legacy a flourishing arts community for which she was a passionate and devoted advocate. The Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Actors Fund mourns the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart. A trustee of the fund for 15 years, Kitty was a tireless champion of the arts as well as the epitome of graciousness. She will be deeply missed. Brian Stokes Mitchell, Pres. Joseph Benincasa, Exec Dir. and The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Actors Fund
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The trustees, faculty, staff and students of Trinity School note with sadness the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart; mother of our Trustee Catherine C. Hart, M.D., mother-in-law of Mark Y. Stoeckle, M.D., and grandmother of James Stoeckle, Class of 2005, and Kate Stoeckle, Class of 2009.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. Champion of the arts for New York State, she led us with grace, a commitment to artists and free expression, and a passion for ensuring art in the daily lives of all. She charmed all with her ''Governor Darling'' requests. We celebrate a life that requires us to speak for the potential of the human spirit. New York City Arts Coalition
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board and staff of The Joyce Theater mourn the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart, a passionate, vital and inspirational leader. Her tireless advocacy helped bring the arts to audiences across New York State. We'll miss her sparkle.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of New York City Opera join with our colleagues in the arts throughout New York State in mourning the loss and celebrating the extraordinary life of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Her passionate advocacy for the arts has benefited all artists and all New Yorkers, and her elegance, wit, and enthusiasm will be missed by all who were fortunate enough to know her. We extend our sincerest sympathy to her family. Paul Kellogg, General and Artistic Director Susan L. Baker, Chairman
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The daughters of Irving Berlin mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. She was a dear friend to our parents and to us. We extend our condolences to her children; Catherine and Christopher.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The curtain comes down on a wonderful life in many acts. Kitty was a great source of love and joy to our whole family for the last decade. Raconteur extraordinaire, trouper, elegant woman, spellbinding entertainer, and fierce advocate for things she believed in, especially the arts, she excelled in many roles. Kitty was also politically astute, socially conscious, wise and kind. She loved to laugh and was always a pleasure to be with. As her son Chris said about his irrepressible mother, ''She believed the greatest day of her life was tomorrow.'' Our hearts go out to Chris, Cathy, and Kitty's entire family. We'll be loving you, always. Not for just an hour, not for just a day, not for just a year, but always. Roy R. Neuberger and the entire Neuberger Family
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. Ballet Hispanico extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Throughout her remarkable lifetime, Mrs. Hart was a tremendous advocate for the arts. Her warm friendship and elegant presence at Ballet Hispanico's events will be sorely missed. Tina Ramirez, Artistic Director. Jody Gottfried Arnhold, Chairman. Thomas W. Ostrander, President.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Members and Staff of the New York State Council on the Arts express their deep sadness at the passing of their beloved former Chairman, Kitty Carlisle Hart. Affectionately known to us as Kitty, she was a vital mainstay of our agency for more than three decades, dispensing wisdom and charm wherever she went. She was a vibrant and tireless advocate for the arts and she will be missed by the entire arts community. Kitty will always be remembered by us as a colleague and a good friend. She was one of a kind and remains irreplaceable.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Directors and staff of Henry Street Settlement mourn the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart, a long-time supporter of Henry Street who served as chairwoman of The Art Show for more than a decade. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Robert S. Harrison, Chairman Dale J. Burch, President
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Directors of the Girl Scout Council of Greater New York and its entire volunteer network and staff mourn the passing of 20-year Board Member and Honorary Director, Kitty Carlisle Hart. She inspired generations of Girl Scouts and entertained at our gala events as recently as last May. She will be greatly missed and remembered. Susan Nitze, Chair Carmen Dubroc, President Mary S. Phipps, Past President Dolores Swirin, CEO
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Health Advocates for Older People and Executive Director Nancy Houghton mourn the loss of our first New York Treasure.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization, and the Rodgers and Hammerstein families, note with sadness the passing of our dear friend Kitty Hart. From her performance in the revival of ''On Your Toes'' to her enlightened encouragement of the work of Moss Hart, her enthusiasm and passion for the arts was without equal. We will miss her, but feel blessed to have known her throughout her long and extraordinary life. We send our condolences to Cathy, Chris and their families.
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Glaucoma Foundation is deeply saddened by the death of its longtime friend and advocate of its work, who for so many years has lent her substantial prestige to the Foundation's public education campaign. In 1999, the annual Kitty Carlisle Hart Award for Lifetime Achievement was created in recognition of her contributions to the battle against glaucoma. We are proud to continue that tradition in her memory and extend our condolences to her family. Gregory K. Harmon, M.D., Chairman, Scott R. Christensen, President and CEO
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board and staff of The Center for Arts Education mourn the loss of Kitty Carlisle Hart, founding Board Member and generous friend to the organization and its mission of making the arts part of every child's education. Since joining CAE in 1996, this grand champion of the arts has been a beacon of inspiration and her grace, wit, charm and enthusiasm will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences to her family. Laurie M. Tisch, Board Chair Jill Braufman, Board President Richard Kessler, Executive Director
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. We will dearly miss the most amazing lady we have ever known. Matthew Roy London and Lillian Chou
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Officers, Governors, and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Member Friar Kitty Carlisle Hart. Her accomplishments to foster the performing arts and her passion for the rich traditions and legacies of entertainment elevated her to an exalted and revered status in show business. We extend our sincere condolences to her family. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. Dear friend and tremendous inspiration will be sadly missed. Elaine Sargent
        HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Kitty was an Honorary Member of the Museum's Board of Trustees since 1996 and a member of MoMA's Education and Special Events committees. This gifted actress and entertainer was a great friend of the Museum. We will remember Kitty for her grace, charm, fearless advocacy of the arts, and for her very special performance as the honoree of the Museum's Party in the Garden in 1999. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter Catherine, her son Christopher, and three grandchildren. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director
      