
        FORTE--Michael J., 56, of New Canaan, died Thursday, April 19, 2007, peacefully, with his loving wife at his side, at the Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence in Stamford. He was born on May 28, 1950, in St. Louis, MO, the son of Joseph and Dorothy Graham Forte of Ellsworth, PA. Mike received his B.A. from the Pennsylvania State University School of Journalism in 1972. In 1982 he received his MBA through The Executive Development Program at the Simon Graduate School of Business in Rochester, New York. For 15 years he had a distinguished marketing career at Eastman Kodak Company. Mike started Soccer USA Partners in early 1990, a marketing organization to promote the U.S. National Soccer. Through aggressive marketing and national broadcast exposure for U.S. soccer, blue-chip corporations began to rally behind the world's sport and made it very American. The corporate funding paved the way to an immeasurably better platform for U.S. soccer, leading to a very strong showing for the men's team in the 1994 World Cup. In 1996, Mike joined Spectacolor Communications as President and CEO and helped build Spectacolor into what became the dominant billboard company in Times Square, NYC. Under Michael's unique ''visionary'' status, the company built the most fabulous signs in the heart of Manhattan. Mike joined ClearChannel Outdoor (then Eller Media Company) in April 2000, when ClearChannel Outdoor acquired Spectacolor, which was renamed ClearChannel Spectacolor. Michael remained CEO and guided the successful expansion of that company. He soon became a key member of ClearChannel Outdoors senior management team, leading other ClearChannel businesses. His entrepreneurial drive and creativity lead to the creation of what is now known as the company's Branded Cities division, a unique integration of signage and sponsorship of major mixed-use commercial, retail and residential developments. Mike was the consummate professional at the highest of levels. As accomplished as he was, what mattered most to Mike was his family. He is survived by his wife, Jane Forte of New Canaan, his two sons, Max and Cameron Forte of New Canaan, his three daughters, Beth Forte of Rochester, NY, Allegra & Michaela Forte of Old Saybrook, CT, brother, Thomas Forte of Longwood, FL, and his sister Jane Guaetta of Hummelstown, PA. Three nieces and one nephew also survive. He was a member of The Core Club in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Michael J. Forte Trust for the benefit of his sons, Max Forte and Cameron Forte. Donations may be mailed to The Michael J. Forte Trust, P.O. Box 937, New Canaan, CT 06840. A funeral service will be held on Friday, April 27, 2007, at the Hoyt Funeral Home, 199 Main St., New Canaan, at 11:00am. Floral services can be made through Springdale Florists at (203) 329-8857. Interment will be private.
      