
        ANFANG--Edward, of Boca Raton, FL, passed away at home on March 31, 2007. Born in NYC on March 13, 1919, Mr. Anfang supported his widowed mother, Ruth, and late sisters, Sylvia and Esther, by apprenticing in the printing trade. He was graduated from Morris High School in the Bronx, and attended night school at City College of New York where he was graduated Phi Beta Kappa in History. He was a Lieutenant in the U.S. Coast Guard, a Mason and Worshipful Master of Girard Lodge in New York. Mr. Anfang was President of Copley Press and Lithography, Inc., in lower Manhattan until his retirement in the 1980s. The success of Copley was the result of Mr. Anfang's creativity and high standards, and the genuine mutual respect, care and love he shared with his employees. Mr. Anfang loved to read, study, garden and travel, and was dedicated to furthering Judaism and Jewish causes, including the arts. He was a longtime resident of Teaneck, New Jersey, served the Jewish Center of Teaneck as a Board member and as President, and was a congregant of B'nai Torah in Boca Raton. Mr. Anfang was also a member of the Board of Yeshiva University's Wurzweiler School of Social Work. He is survived by his beloved wife of 62 years, Gloria; his four daughters, Linda of Cincinnati, Roxanne (Edward) of Miami, Sandra of Half Moon Bay, CA, and Pamela of S. FL, and, six adoring grandchildren: Matthew (Marina) of Edgewater, NJ; Rebecca of Chicago; Michael, Justin, Marissa of S. FL; and, Clay of Half Moon Bay, CA. Services will be held on April 5, 2007, at 12:00 noon at the Jewish Center of Teaneck, followed by interment at Cedar Park Cemetery in Bergen County, NJ. Services were by Gutterman and Musicant in Hackensack. A memorial service in S. FL will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to your favorite charity. $(6$)ANFANG--Edward, age 88 passed away March 31, 2007 after a short illness. He was a Phi Beta Kappa Graduate of City College of NY, past President of the Jewish Center of Teaneck, and past Grand Master of the Girard Masonic Lodge in NYC. Mr. Anfang is survived by his wife Gloria (nee Murovchick), his daughters, Linda Chernus, Roxanne Joffe, Sandra Anfang and Pamela Rivlin. He is also survived by grandchildren, Matthew Joffe, Rebecca George, Michael Rivlin, Justin Joffe, Marissa Rivlin and Clay Huddle. Services will be held at The Jewish Center of Teaneck, 70 Sterling Place, Teaneck, NJ on Thursday April 5, 2007 at Noon. Interment will take place in Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Contributions may be made to a favorite charity. For further information call Gutterman and Musicant, 800-522-0588 or GuttermanMusicantWien .com
      