
        SAUL--Joseph E. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System extends its deepest sympathies to trustee Andrew Saul, Life Trustee Norma Saul and the entire family on the passing of their beloved father and husband, Joseph. Joseph's personal commitment to Alzheimer's Disease led to the founding support for the System's nationally recognized Norma & Joseph Saul Alzheimer's Disease Special Care Unit. His and Norma's generosity has greatly enhanced the quality of life of our residents with Alzheimer's Disease and supports research in the field. We are grateful to this involved, caring family for the many contributions they have made to our System over the years. Our thoughts will be with Andrew and Norma during their time of loss. Gene D. Resnick, M.D., Chairman of the Board Audrey Weiner, DSW, President & CEO
        $(6$)SAUL--Joseph. Diana and Larry Robbins express their heartfelt sympathy to the family of Joseph Saul. A warm and unusual man who will be sorely missed by all who knew him.
        $(6$)SAUL--Joseph E. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, are saddened by the death of our longtime friend and supporter, Joseph E. Saul. We offer heartfelt condolences to Norma, Andrew and Denise and the entire family. Stephen S. Lash President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., Israel Museum
        $(6$)SAUL--Joseph E., 1919-2007. Loving husband of Norma for 67 years. Fabulous father of Andrew and Jane Berkey, father-in-law of Denise. Loving grandfather of Kim and Aaron, Jennifer and Rob. Great-grandfather of William and Caroline. A true gentlemen and outstanding person. Services will be private.
        $(6$)SAUL--Joseph E. Good Friend for over 50 years. He fought a long and valiant battle. An outstanding businessman and philanthropist, he had a wry sense of humor. Our personal memories include an image of him and Norma sailing in all weather conditions. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Debby and Frank Morgenstern
        $(6$)SAUL--Joseph. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Joseph Saul, a compassionate leader and esteemed friend whose lifetime of service included an unwavering commitment to the Jewish community and deep support of Israel, particularly focusing on children. Joe enriched millions of lives worldwide through his boundless generosity and dedication. Among his many roles at UJA-Federation, Joe served as a member and vice chairman of our Board of Directors. Joe's legacy is continued through his family's generosity, which profoundly impacts the most vulnerable, and strengthens Jewish life and learning in New York, in Israel, and worldwide. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joe's beloved wife, Norma; to his children; Andrew and Denise, and Jane Berkey, to his grandchildren; Jennifer and Robert, and Kimberly; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      