
        FRIEDMAN--Irving. Kind, respected, visionary, mentor and patriarch. Devoted father of Bob and Micki, Bernie and Leslie. Loving grandfather of Deborah, Matthew, Teri, Michael, Monica, David and Rachel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy. Richie, Jeffrey and Scott $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving Our family mourns with you in the loss of your Dad, a man of great honor and charm. He was a wonderfully devoted husband to Clara, and a guiding light for his sons, Bernie and Bob and their families. He will be greatly missed by all those who knew him. We are here for you. Patti and Marty Goodstein and our Family $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving. It is difficult for me to express the feelings of sorrow I felt when Bernard and later Robert Friedman called me to tell me that their father Irving had passed away. It will be hard to comprehend that he is no longer with us. I first met Irving Friedman thirty years ago when as vice president of Morse Diesel, I was in charge of building the addition to the Park Avenue Synagogue of which Irving, a successful owner/builder was Chairman of the Building Committee. As such he oversaw construction issues and was my liaison with the Synagogue. What became obvious through the construction process, was not only his dedication in insuring a successful project but the depth of his knowledge and wise counsel on matters relating to the process. Irving was ''hands on'' practical and showed tremendous foresight in solving problems before they occurred. He was instrumental in the success of the project. Through the years in working with Irving on numerous development projects, his energy and tenacity never waned. He was at work every day until very recently and his door was always open to discuss project details both from a technical and financial prospective. He knew where every dollar went and never sacrificed quality for expediency. His name and reputation for building a project that would last the test of time was very important to him. Many times when faced with difficult construction decisions, I would ask myself, ''What would Irving do?'' What Irving would do was usually the right decision. Our industry and I personally share a tremendous loss with the passing of this industry leader and mentor. On behalf of myself and my family I wish to express my sincerest and deepest condolences to his sons, Bernard and Robert Friedman and their families and extended families. Lou Katsos President Jekmar Associates $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving. Beloved husband to the late Clara. Devoted father of Bernard and Leslie, Robert and Micki. Loving grandfather of Teri, Michael and Monica, David and Rachel, Deborah and Matthew. Proud great-grandfather of Kieran, Jane, Stephanie and Emily. Service Tuesday, 10:30am, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St. and Madison. He was the patriarch of the family and will be missed. Contributions, if you desire, to Park Avenue Synagogue, would be appreciated. $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving. The Em ployees of Friedman Management have lost our founder & dear friend. Our hearts are heavy. He was a gentleman among men and he will truly be missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Friedman Family. $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving. The partners and employees of Cooley Godward Kronish LLP wish to express their sorrow at the loss of Irving Friedman. He and his late wife, Clara, were individuals of exceptional decency, integrity and warmth. We extend our sincerest condolences to their sons, Bernard and Robert, and to their families.
      