
        HALLENBECK--William (Billy). You were such a good friend, we will miss you always. Mona, Felix, Jamie, Andrew, Sarah.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. Our hearts are saddened by the loss of our dear friend Bill. We will miss his kindness, great spirit, and very special wit. Our love and condolences to his beloved wife Diane, to his brother and sister-in-law Ernie and Joan Kalman and his children and grandchildren Rita and Philip Rosen.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of William Hallenbeck, a member of the club for 37 years, and an esteemed past Board member and Officer. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Diane and the entire family. Jeffrey I. Citron, President Lawrence Hendelsman, Secretary
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William died May 7, 2007 at the age of 83 after a short illness. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and friend. He is survived by his beloved wife Diane, his adored children Bill Jr. (Ellen), Bruce, Shawn (Bill), Stephen (Sally), Lindsay (Howard), Robert (Kathy) and his seven cherished grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services 1pm at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, 1000 Pinebrook Blvd, New Rochelle, NY.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of its longtime member and extends its sympathy to the family. Paul Warhit, President Evan Goodman, Rabbi
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, William Hallenbeck. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Diane, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secy.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. We mourn the loss of our loyal and good friend of many, many years. Bill was always there when needed and we will miss him tremendously. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Diane and the entire Hallenbeck family. Gwen and Lester Fisher
      