
        PYLE--Page Neville, of Short Hills and Mantoloking, NJ, passed away at Overlook Hospital in Summit on May 18, 2007 after a valiant seven year struggle with a rare lymphatic cancer. She was 67 years old. She was born in New York City on December 1, 1939, the third child of Gregg Neville and Natalie Page Neville. Page is survived by her husband, Robert M. Pyle, Jr.; two daughters, Cynthia (Nina) Pyle Furlanetto of Santa Fe, NM, and Laura C. Pyle of Arlington, VA; her sister, Natalie Neville Ferris of Holden, MA, and one grandchild. She was predeceased by her brother, Richard Gregg Neville in 1971. Page attended Spence School in New York City through ninth grade, and graduated from Miss Porter's School (Farmington) in 1957, and Smith College in 1961. She was an active volunteer of the latter two institutions over the years, serving among other positions as a President of the Farmington Alumnae Association of New Jersey and a President of the Smith College Club of the Oranges and Short Hills. Other volunteer positions included the Board of Trustees of the Cora Hartshorn Arboretum in Short Hills in various capacities during a seven year span, and the Short Hills Garden Club, where she was also a Vice President for two years. At her death Page was a member of the Short Hills Club and the Bay Head Yacht Club in New Jersey and the Hillsboro Club in Florida and several local community and civic organizations. Professionally, Page served in the investment consulting field, principally with Scudder, Stevens & Clark and Stein Roe & Farnham for seven years, and thereafter as the first paid Executive Director of the Investment Counsel Association of America for three years, where she established the first office for that organization in New York. At a later time she served for several years as the Adult Program Director of the Cora Hartshorn Arboretum. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, May 30, at Christ Church in Short Hills (corner of Forest Drive and Highland Avenue) at 11:00 am. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to the Cutaneous Lymphoma Foundation, PO Box 374, Birmingham, MI, 48012; the National Audubon Society, 700 Broadway, New York, NY 10003; Miss Porter's School, Farmington, CT 06032; or Smith College, Northampton, MA 01063.
      