
        SCHWARTZ--Irene. We sadly note the passing of a great friend of the Barkin Family and a long time partner. Our deepest sympathies to Lois and Richard and their families. May this very good woman rest in peace. Stephen and Madeline Barkin
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene, died peacefully at home on May 28. She was 92 years old and resided in New York City. Beloved wife of fifty years to the late David Schwartz. Cherished Mother of Lois and Bruce Zenkel and Richard and Sheila Schwartz. Loving Grandmother of Daniel and Michele Zenkel, Gary and Suzanne Zenkel, Lisa and Michael Sheldon, Jenny and Aaron Stone, and John Schwartz. Adoring Gigi to David, Caroline, Nicole, Jack, Vanessa, Peter, and Phoebe. Devoted sister of the late Gertrude Goodson and daughter of the late Bella and Louis Krugman. A beautiful lady with charm and elegance who will be missed by all who were touched by her kindness and love. The family will receive Wednesday evening from 5-8 PM at Campbell Memorial Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. Funeral services will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine-Mark Trauner Faculty Scholar in Neuro-Oncology, Brandeis University, or a charity of your choice.
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Irene Schwartz, mother of Richard Schwartz and mother-in-law of Sheila Schwartz, treasured friends of UJA-Federation, whose devotion to Jewish agencies and synagogue life has left a legacy of hope for countless individuals touched by their generosity. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Schwartz family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, Frank Robinson, The Richard J. Schwartz Director of the Museum, and the Museum staff express profound sorrow at the passing of Irene Schwartz, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague Richard J. Schwartz. Her long and full life found expression in the achievements of her family. The beauty of a mother shall never fade. We express our deepest sympathy to Sheila Schwartz, Richard Schwartz, and all members of the family.
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. Cornell University mourns the passing of Irene Schwartz, beloved mother of our dear friend and Cornell University Trustee, Richard J. Schwartz, and mother-in-law of Sheila W. Schwartz, cherished friends of our community whose exemplary dedication has had a transformative impact on the university. We express our deepest sympathy to Dick, Sheila, and the entire family. Peter Meining, Chair of the Board of Trustees, Cornell University David J. Skorton, President, Cornell University
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The Board of Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography offer condolences to long-time Trustee Lois Zenkel and her brother, Richard Schwartz, on the passing of their dear mother. Gayle Greenhill, Chairman Jeffrey A. Rosen, President Willis E. Hartshorn, Ehrenkranz Director
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. We celebrate the life and mourn the death of our aunt Irene. Her warmth, sense of humor and infectious giggle brought much joy to our family. Our thoughts are with Lois and Richard and their families. Ruth and Buzz Hochberg Ira and Jon Hochberg Debbie and Lloyd Khaner
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The Dean of Cornell University's College of Arts and Sciences and the College's Advisory Council mourn the loss of Irene Schwartz, mother of Emeritus Advisory Council Member, Richard Schwartz, and mother-in-law of Sheila Schwartz, two of Cornell's most dedicated friends whose commitment to liberal arts education at Cornell and throughout New York State is exceptional. Our sincere condolences to the Schwartz family, including grandchildren John Schwartz and Jennifer Schwartz Stone. G. Peter Lepage, Harold Tanner Dean The College of Arts and Sciences Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. With deepest sympathies for my dear sister-in-law, Lois Zenkel and my brother, Bruce and their entire family. I will miss you Irenie. Love, Judi
      