
        BLACK--Daniel James,former chemical and pharmaceutical firm executive and U.S. Army veteran, died Friday in Manhasset, New York, from the complications associated with cancer and its treatment. He was 75. Born in Asbury Park, New Jersey in 1931, to Daniel Joseph Black and Julia B. (Palmer) Black, Black grew up in Brooklyn. His education at The Cooper Union and New York University, from which he received his B.S. degree in 1956, was interrupted by his enlistment in the U.S. Army, where he served three years as a sergeant in active duty in the Korean War. Black began his career in 1956 at commercial and municipal construction firm Frederick Snare Corp., where he was assistant to the treasurer. In 1960, he joined Carter-Wallace, Inc., a diversified healthcare company known for innovative products such as Arrid (the first aerosol deodorant) and Rise (the first pressurized shave cream). From his initial position as tax manager, Black rose to become, by the early 1970s, Carter-Wallace's President and Chief Operating Officer, the position he held until his retirement, in 1997. Under Black's long stewardship, the company originally known for 'Carter's Little Liver Pills', grew to join the Fortune 500 by the early 1990s. Daniel Black was a man of great intellect and intense curiosity. His pursuit of knowledge and understanding was unrelenting. Besides leading a successful business career, Dan Black was, at various points in his life, a recognized mineralogist, a voracious reader of history, a horticulturalist, a collector of rare books and fine art, and a golf enthusiast, among many other interests and avocations. He served on the board of trustees of Mount Holyoke College and on the board of overseers of the NYU Stern School of Business. But most importantly of all, Dan Black was devoted to, and adored, his wife of 48 years, Marilyn (Russo) Black, and his three children: Deborah of Mill Neck, New York; Daniel R. Black, of Port Washington, New York; and Peter F. Black, of Manhattan. He is survived by his wife, three children, and four grandchildren, who, together with the many friends whom he treasured, will hold him close to their hearts forever.
      