
        FELDMAN--Robert D., age 87, Roslyn Harbor, NY. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Feldman. Devoted father of Donald Feldman and his wife Ellen, and Lesley Decker Lucas and her husband Stephen. Treasured grandfather of Ilana Decker, Doug Feldman, Rachel Decker and Matthew Feldman. Loving brother of the late Murray Feldman. We will forever remember and miss your guiding hand, unwavering devotion to family, loyalty to friends, limitless generosity, and unique sense of humor. You had a tremendous impact on everyone you touched. Contributions can be made to the Chemotherapy Foundation, 183 Madison Avenue, NY, NY 10016.
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Robert. Dear Bob, my friend, my partner for 53 years. A kind and caring man. To know you was to love you. You were a part of our lives and will be forever. Ginger and Larry
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Robert D. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of Honorary Trustee, distinguished benefactor and friend Robert Feldman. His sophisticated understanding, humanitarian concern, generosity and dedicated efforts profoundly influenced the expansion and scope of the Foundation's grant programs. His staunch support of over 35 years has been instrumental in advancing chemotherapy research and clinical science for the control, cure, and prevention of cancer through innovative medical therapies. Bob has been a driving force and an inspiration to us all to pursue the promise on the horizon. Progress achieved through our aggressive research efforts will forever remain a tribute to his vision and unwavering encouragement. His warmth and kindness and his steadfast loyalty will be remembered with gratitude and affection always. Franco M. Muggia, M.D. Chairman and Medical Dir. Barry Richter, President Chemotherapy Foundation
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Robert. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members, and Staff of Engineers Country Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Robert Feldman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children, Lesley Decker-Lucas and Donald Feldman and their families. Les Genatt, President
      