
        STEFFEN--Jonathan F., formerly of Mamaroneck, NY, died of a massive embolism following ankle reconstruction in Philadelphia, PA on April 15, 2007 shortly before his 37th birthday. He was born in North Tarrytown, New York on April 28, 1970 and was a graduate of Mamaroneck High School. Prior to forging a career as a tennis professional, he trained at the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy and attended Monmouth University, where he was a two-time Northeast Conference A Flight Singles Champion, a four-time MVP and held the team record for alltime career victories. In 1994, he was the Number 4 ranked men's single player in the USTA's Eastern Region and held rankings in the top 20 throughout the 1990's. Throughout his career, Steffen was the head tennis professional at the Westchester based Joel Ross Tennis Academy, Beckwith Pointe Country Club, the former Eldorado Resort Club and Pelham Country Club. He was also the assistant tennis professional at the Quaker Ridge Golf Club in Scarsdale. Earlier, he traveled cross country with a top 100 women's singles player, coaching her in the 1992 and 1993 U.S. Open tournaments. His love of the game was most obvious in his development of junior players. He infused many talented juniors with his passion for tennis, and stood out in his field for providing special consideration to families who faced financial inequities. Many of his students won tennis scholarships to top colleges and universities, playing Number 1 on their teams. Steffen was buried in a private family ceremony in Creve Coeur, MO on April 20, 2007. A private celebration honoring his joyful and generous spirit will be held in Westchester. He is survived by his mother Anne Steffen of Philadelphia; his father Fred Steffen of Chicago; his sister Sally Steffen and brother-in-law Geoffrey Herrera of Philadelphia; and his most beloved former wife, Irena Briganti, of New York. Donations in his memory can be sent to: The Jonathan F. Steffen Memorial Fund at Monmouth University, 400 Cedar Avenue, West Long Branch, NJ 07764.
      