
        STRAHL--Martin. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Ellen, Neil and Andrea, Pamela and Andrew, Wendy and Eric, and the entire family. Mark J. Shirvan, President
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. ''Pioneering'' and most reliable partner and true friend; a rare and graceful gentleman; an exemplary and brilliant businessman. Loving husband, father and grandfather. He has touched our lives and we have been blessed for knowing him. Our love and deepest condolences to Ellen, Neil, Pamela, Wendy and the rest of the Strahl family. The ZindersMaxine, Susan, David, Karen, Joshua, and Advah
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. Atlantic Express Transportation Group mourns the passing of our dear friend and valued colleague, Martin Strahl. Our prayers and thoughts are with the entire Strahl family, and our colleague and good friend Neil Strahl, President of Pioneer Transportation, a great company his father built and whose legacy he so admirably continues. Domenic F. Gatto, President and CEO
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. The New York City School Bus Contractors Coalition mourns the passing of our good friend and highly respect industry colleague Martin Strahl, founder of Pioneer Transportation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Ellen, devoted children Neil and Andrea Strahl, Pamela and Andrew Sunshine, Wendy and Eric Stein, six cherished grandchildren, and sister Connie Levy. Marty will be deeply miss by all.
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. Our dear friend Marty. Our loss is painful but our memories are sweet. You were a loving friend. We laughed together, cried together, but most of all we enjoyed life together. Our families were entwined as one. We will miss you terribly. Sam, Sanda, David, Janet and Bruce Cohen
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. We have lost a colleague and dear personal friend, but we will always remember his tenacity in business and zest for living. The Brettschneider and Cooper Family
        $(6$)STRAHL--Martin. We are truly saddened by the loss of a kind and generous man. To Ellen, our dear son-in-law Neil, Pam and Wendy we extend our deepest condolences. We will always remember and cherish the many happy family occasions we spent together. Norman and Karen
      