
        RAININ--Kenneth, Entrepreneur and Philanthropist, is Dead at 68. Kenneth Rainin, an unstoppable entrepreneur who built his fortune founding scientific and medical products companies and who later parlayed his wealth and management expertise into many charitable causes, died on Wednesday, May 2, 2007 at his home in Piedmont, California. He was 68. The son of William and Betty Rainin, he was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1938. He graduated from Ohio State University before enlisting in the Army. Mr. Rainin entered the business world shortly after his discharge from the US Army. At the age of 25, he founded Rainin Instrument Company which initially distributed laboratory instruments and supplies. Mr. Rainin secured the rights to sell a line of laboratory pipettes, and through design improvements, built the Pipetman into the dominant brand of pipettes used in laboratories. Later Mr. Rainin developed his own line of ergonomic pipettes which are now recognized as the standard around the world. Pipettes were not his only business interest; other ventures included intraocular lens manufacturing, food manufacturing, wine production and the gaming/ hospitality industry. Mr. Rainin was also involved in many civic and cultural activities. Among his greatest passions was the San Francisco Ballet, which he served as Former Chairman of the Executive Committee. He created the Kenneth Rainin Foundation which supports research at the UCSF Medical School and the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Many would argue his greatest talent lay in design and innovation. He used these talents to build his businesses, as well as two of the world's most elegant motor yachts, each christened Rasselas, named after Samuel Johnson's epic fictional character, The Prince of Abyssinia, who traveled throughout ancient Arabia in search of happiness. Mr. Rainin is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Rainin, a son, Jesse Rainin, two grandsons and a brother, Edgar Rainin. A memorial service will be held on Monday, May 14th at 4:00 p.m. at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the UCSF Foundation -Center for Colitis and Crohns Disease, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2200, San Francisco, CA 94104.
      