
        COSTELLO--Joseph Michael, died Tuesday from complications from a fall. He was surrounded by his family. Joe was born February 28, 1925, in Manhattan to Michael and Mary Costello of County Mayo, Ireland. He graduated from Rice High School and enrolled in Iona College, where his education was interrupted by his enlistment in the U.S. Army. He served in active duty in World War II, arriving in Europe on June 9, 1944. He was taken prisoner in the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944 and remained ''a guest of the German government,'' as he would say in his own inimitable way, until May 8, 1945. After his discharge, Joe finished an accounting degree at Iona, and then completed a law degree at Fordham Law School. He was the founding partner of the New York law firm Costello, Shea & Gaffney, and became a highly respected trial lawyer in the areas of insurance defense, products liability and medical malpractice. He was a member of the Nassau County, New York State (former chairman, Trial Lawyers Section) and American Bar Associations; the Maritime Law Association of the United States; the New York County Lawyers Association; the Defense Research Institute; and the Defense Association of New York. He was a former law lecturer at Fordham University; member of the National Panel of Arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association; fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers; member of the Federal Bar Council; associate trustee of North Shore University Hospital; trustee, justice and police commissioner of the Village of Plandome; and president of Plandome Country Club. Joe loved sharing his wit and wisdom, telling stories, reading, the New York Times crossword puzzle, golf, travel, especially to Ireland, cigars, and most of all his family, the sine qua non of his existence. He is survived by his wife, Marianne Kelly (Clark) of Plandome; his children Michael (Jayne) of Hanover, NH; Kelly (Coleman) King of Columbus, NJ; J. McGarry (Marilyn) of Wilton, CT; Patrick of Glen Head; Renie of East Hampton; Brendan of Port Washington; and Noelle of Cumberland, RI; his grandchildren, Patrick, Nicole, Ian, Christiana, Cosima, Francesca, Caroline, Colin and Elizabeth; his brother, Thomas; his sisters Theresa Honan and Patricia Wright; and many cousins, nieces, nephews, friends and colleagues. He was predeceased by his daughter Mary Ann, his parents and his sister Mary. Visitation will be at Fairchild Sons Funeral Home, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Saturday from 7 to 9pm and Sunday from 3 to 5 and 7 to 9pm. The funeral Mass will be at St. Mary's Church, 1300 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Monday at 10am. Interment will be at St. John's Cemetery, Middle Village. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions in Joe's memory be made to the West of Ireland Alzheimer Foundation, Main Street, Ballindine, County Mayo, Ireland, or to the Nassau County Firefighters Burn Center Foundation, PO Box 246, Levittown, NY 11756.
      