
        CONWAY--James J. Jr., former Chairman and Chief Executive of the Long Island Savings Bank, died on May 6, 2007 of complications after a long illness. Jim Conway was married to Dolores (Dee) Gilhooly for 53 years, was the father of five children and grandfather of 18, and was an accomplished banker, lawyer, and athlete. He was 78 years old. Mr. Conway was born in Rockaway and grew up in Jamaica Estates, Queens. He was a graduate of Brooklyn Prep, the College of the Holy Cross and Fordham Law School. Mr. Conway was a longtime resident of Manhasset, New York; Quogue, New York; and Palm Beach, Florida. Mr. Conway served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Long Island Savings Bank from 1978 until 1992. The Bank's assets grew tenfold under his leadership, and the book value of the savings bank increased over 1,500 percent. In addition, Mr. Conway led the bank through a difficult period in the financial services industry and successfully led the acquisition and integration of several failed thrifts from the FDIC. Mr. Conway had a reputation as a dynamic leader with a range of expertise, from home mortgage lending to real estate finance and development, to sophisticated financing and asset-related funding techniques. Long Island Savings Bank converted from mutual ownership, went public, and was subsequently acquired by Astoria Federal Savings. Jim Conway was well known for his generosity. He made many of his gifts to help others in a quiet way, neither seeking nor valuing public recognition. There are countless individuals with stories of favors, big and small, where Jim Conway stepped in during a time of need. While he supported many charities and community works, his favorite causes were education and youth programs. Jim Conway and his wife and family were longtime supporters of Little Flower Children's Services, an agency providing educational, foster care, family counseling and adoption services. Jim Conway was an active athlete and sports fan. He played competitive baseball and basketball in high school and college and was offered a professional baseball contract at a young age. He was a passionated participant in everything he did and played competitive golf until late in life. Jim Conway pursued with a passion a lifelong interest in horse racing where he displayed his competitive drive, street smarts, and luck. He was an owner or part owner of many leading trotters and thoroughbreds, enjoying considerable success over many years. One of his horses, Kash Minbar, was a repeat winner of the American Trotting Championship and set national and world records in the mile, mile-and-aquarter and mile-and a half. One of his thoroughbreds, Greenwood Lake, was the favorite to win the Kentucky Derby in 2000 after having won the Florida Derby, the Remsen and the Champagne Classic. Unfortunately, Greenwood Lake suffered a career-ending broken leg two months prior to the Kentucky Derby. The caption under Mr. Conway's photo in his senior yearbook at Holy Cross called him ''Lucky Jim'' and noted that he was known for his intelligence, his charm and sense of humor, his athletic skill, and pointed out that he liked to dance. In many ways the editor of the Holy Cross yearbook captured the essence of Jim Conway's life. The only thing that editor missed was his love and devotion to his wife Dee and his pride and enjoyment of his family. In addition to his wife Dee, Mr. Conway is survived by his five children: James J. Conway III of Matinecock, NY, Susan Conway Petrelli of Harrison, NY, Kevin J. Conway of Plandome, NY, Brian J. Conway of Newton, MA and Traci Conway Clinton of Plandome Manor, NY; two daughters-in-law, Denise Conway and Karen Conway; two sons-in-law, Joseph Petrelli and Matthew Clinton; 18 grandchildren; a sister, Janet Conway Sands of Woodbury, CT. (Eddie) and a sister-inlaw, Ruth Conway of Landrum, SC. Mr. Conway was predeceased by his beloved sister Marge, and brother, Bobby. The wake for James Conway will held be at Fairchild & Sons Funeral Home at 1570 Northern Boulevard in Manhasset, New York. (Thursday, May 10 from 2-5 pm and 7-9 pm). There will be a memorial mass at St. Mary's Church in Manhasset at 5 pm on Friday, May 11. The family will be holding a private burial service. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to Little Flower Children's Services; 2450 N. Wading River Road; PO Box 9000; Wading River, NY 11792.
      