
        CLEMENT--Samuel Prescott Bush, son of Stuart Holmes Clement and Margaret Livingston Bush Clement, was born 29 December 1921 in Buffalo, NY, and died peacefully 4 May 2007 in Bloomfield, CT. Mr. Clement, known as ''Pres'', attended Foote School, graduated from Pomfret School in 1940, attended Williams College, and graduated from Colorado College in 1949. He taught at Pomfret and at St. Louis Country Day School. After a second bout of tuberculosis, he retired from teaching and began a career as a professional photographer and artist. He was a member of Photographers of America and did work for the Yale Divinity, Law, and Medical schools, the Yale baseball team, and Yale class reunions as well as portrait photography, weddings, and school yearbooks. His paintings have been exhibited annually at the High Peaks Artists Association in Keene Valley, NY, of which he was president for twenty years. As a young man, ''Pres'' was a strong baseball pitcher and first baseman. A resident of New Haven, CT, for many years and a seasonal resident of Keene Valley, NY, he was a member of the Yale University Glee Club hand bell group in New Haven, performed in local Gilbert & Sullivan productions, and sang with the Williams College Octet Alumni. He was an active and dedicated Class Secretary at Pomfret and an effective fundraiser for several other nonprofit organizations. While a resident of Litchfield, CT, he was a member of St. Michaels Church. Previously, he had been a member of St. Thomass in New Haven and most recently Old St. Andrews in Bloomfield; seasonally he attended the Keene Valley Congregational Church. He was also a member of the Adirondack Mountain Reserve, the New Haven Lawn Club, and the Keene Valley Country Club. Predeceased by his wife of fortynine years, Harmony Twichell Clement, ''Pres'' was devoted to his large, extended family and his wide circle of friends. He is survived by his children Harmony C. Spongberg and her husband, Stephen, of Chilmark, MA; Margaret C. Green of Washington, CT; Samuel Prescott Clement and his wife, Barbara, of Wellesley, MA; granddaughter Harmony S. Spongberg of Charlotte, VT; brother Stuart H. Clement; sister Mary B. Clement Estabrook; and many cousins, nieces, and nephews. A memorial service will be held at the Pomfret School chapel, Pomfret, CT on Sunday, 3 June at 11:30 am. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to The Class of 1940 Scholarship Fund, Pomfret School, P.O. Box 128, Pomfret, CT, 06258-0128 Attn. Development Office. Carmon Windsor Funeral Home has care of services.
      