
        SCHWARTZ--Irene. Brandeis University mourns the death of Irene Schwartz, a Brandeis Fellow and cherished friend. With her late husband, a longstanding Brandeis Trustee, her memory will live on through David and Irene Schwartz Hall. We extend our deepest sympathy to her son, Richard; her daughter-in-law, Sheila; her daughter and sonin-law, Lois and Bruce Zenkel; and her entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Irene Schwartz, mother of Lois and Bruce Zenkel and Richard and Sheila Schwartz, treasured friends of UJA-Federation, whose devotion to Jewish agencies and synagogue life has left a legacy of hope for countless individuals touched by their generosity. We extend our deepest sympathies to Irene's children, Lois and Bruce, and Richard and Sheila; to her grandchildren, John, Jennifer, Daniel, Gary, and Lisa; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. President Mary Sue Coleman and the University of Michigan community wishes to express deepest sympathy to our dear friends Bruce and Lois Zenkel on the passing of Irene Schwartz. We send our condolences to the entire Schwartz family.
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. We sadly note the passing of a great friend of the Barkin Family and a longtime partner. Our deepest sympathies to Lois and Richard and their families. May this very good woman rest in peace. Stephen, Madeline and Elyse Barkin
        $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of Irene Schwartz, who along with her late husband David, was among the College's earliest and most generous Benefactors. Together they established a Pavilion at the College's hospital and a Psychiatry Research Wing. Irene was a devoted member of the board of directors of the National Women's Division and its New York Chapter. Their tradition of humanitarian philanthropy has been carried on by three generations of the Schwartz and Zenkel families, to whom we extend our deepest and heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Allen M. Spiegel, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
      