
        GOLDMAN--Charles. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Teachers, Parents and Students of the Hannah Senesh Community Day School are profoundly saddened by the untimely loss of our beloved friend and leader, Chuck Goldman. President of the Board 2003-2006, and its dedicated member from 2001 until his death, Chuck skillfully led the school through an extraordinary period of transition, development and planning for the future, culminating in a successful capital campaign and the acquisition and construction of the school's beautiful new home at 342 Smith Street in Brooklyn. Only days before he entered the hospital last week, Chuck defied his illness to attend a lengthy board meeting, at which, as always, he devotedly immersed himself in critical decisions for the school. We will deeply miss his quiet strength, wisdom and kindness. Our hearts go out to his wife Debra Rubenstein, a cherished member of our school's administration, his daughter Molly, a beloved student in our 6th Grade, his mother Edie, and sisters Jill and Ricki. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Lisa Kleinman, President, Board of Trustees Susan Weintrob, Head of School Hannah Senesh Community Day School
        $(6$)GOLDMAN--Charles. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, Chuck Goldman, vice president of UJAFederation's Planned Giving & Endowments Department. A gifted lawyer and consummate professional, Chuck helped ensure there would always be the resources necessary for the Jewish community to take care of those in need, rescue those in harm's way, and renew and strengthen the Jewish people. In doing so, he helped establish a legacy of his own that will be felt in New York and throughout the Jewish community for years to come. Our condolences go out to his wife, Debra Rubenstein; his daughter, Molly; his mother, Edith; and to the entire Goldman family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)GOLDMAN--Chuck. The Silverman Charitable Group mourns the passing of a dear friend and much admired professional. Chuck was both a gentle man and a gentleman. His efforts to make the world a better place will have a lasting impact. We pray for his family. He will be sorely missed and fondly remembered.
      