
        ENSIGN--Richard P. Airline Pioneer. If you have ever enjoyed a glass of champagne or cup of coffee on an airline, used frequent flyer miles, paid less than full fare for your children to fly, or said, ''The Only Way to Fly,'' then you have benefited from Richard Ensign's life. Dick Ensign, a pioneer of the airline industry passed away peacefully on May 1 with his wife, fellow airline pioneer Margaret Ensign, at his side. He was born on January 20, 1919 in Salt Lake City, Utah. He received a B.S. degree in 1941 from the University of Utah where he was VicePresident of the student body, a member of Skull and Bones, the honor society, Owl and Key, leader of the band, and President of Pi Kappa Alpha. He received an MBA from the University of Washington in 1954. Dick began his career at Western Airlines in 1940, loading bags on DC-3 airplanes, and went on to be a member of the Board of Directors. Inbetween he was Vice-President of Passenger Services, where he pioneered many service-related innovations, including developing the first mobile airline serving cart for which he received a patent. He also introduced frequent flyer miles, childrens fares, wine, champagne and coffee on board, and developed Champagne, Fiesta and Hunt Breakfast flights. In 1958, he was awarded the Wine Institute's award for his ''renowned champagne flights'' and for his contributions to ''gracious dining and wine service aloft.'' He also received the Coffee Brewing Institutes Golden Cup Award. In 1971 Dick left Western for Pan American Airlines where he was Senior Vice President of Marketing, Executive Vice-President for World Wide Operations and a Member of the Board of Directors. He returned to Western in 1975 as Executive Vice-President and went on to become a Member of the Board of Directors. He retired from Western in 1981 and became a senior advisor to the President of Caterair as well as the Marriott Corporation. He sat on numerous boards including the Aero Club of Southern California, the Governor's Committee on Tourism, the US Departments of Commerce Advisory Board, Marriott-Japan, Caterair, Korea and the Pacific Area Travel Association. At the University of Utah, he was the Chair of the National Advisory Council, the University's distinguished alumnus in 1976, and the National Fund Raising Chairman from 198283. He also received the Distinguished Services Award from Florida International University in 1973 and Pepperdine University's Ambassador Award in 2001. He is listed in Who's Who in America and the World. Dick believed in service to others, enjoyed music and tennis and loved his family. He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Hinckley also from Salt Lake City, Utah, five children; Judy, Janie, Rick, Jim and Margee, ten grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Services will be held in Malibu, California and he will be buried in Utah. In lieu of flowers the family requests donations be sent to the Joash Foundation c/o Dr. Wesley Moore, UCLA 200 Medical Plaza, Suite 510-6, Los Angeles, California 90095-6908.
      