
        HALLENBECK--William. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with profound sorrow the passing of William Hallenbeck, esteemed member of the Einstein family. Bill and his beloved wife Diane have been longtime supporters of the College. Together with their dear brother and sister-in-law, they established The Diane and William Hallenbeck/Joan and Ernest Kalman Laboratory for Cancer Research. Bill served on the Executive Board of our Men's Division. Continuing the legacy of her parents, Rae and Henry Kalman, Benefactors of the College, Diane is an Honorary President of our National Women's Division and its Westchester/Fairfield Chapter and a past member of our Board of Overseers, on which her brother Ernest now serves. Bill will be sorely missed but his humanitarian vision will endure. We extend our deepest sympathy to Diane and the entire family. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Allen M. Spiegel, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. You leave us with warm memories and the joy of your friendship. Lee and Howard Kaliner
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William died May 7, 2007 at the age of 83 after a short illness. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and friend. He is survived by his beloved wife Diane, his adored children Bill Jr. (Ellen), Bruce, Shawn (Bill), Stephen (Sally), Lindsay (Howard), Robert (Kathy) and his seven cherished grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services 1pm at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, 1000 Pinebrook Blvd, New Rochelle, NY.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. We mourn the loss of our loyal and good friend of many, many years. Bill was always there when needed and we will miss him tremendously. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Diane and the entire Hallenbeck family. Gwen and Lester Fisher
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. Our hearts are saddened by the loss of our dear friend Bill. We will miss his kindness, great spirit, and very special wit. Our love and condolences to his beloved wife Diane, to his brother and sister-in-law Ernie and Joan Kalman and his children and grandchildren Rita and Philip Rosen.
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William ''Billy''. Over 50 years of memories. To Diane and the entire family, our hearts are broken. His legacy of philanthropy, sick jokes and bad golf will live on forever. Love, Allen, Jane, John & Marcia Schultz
        $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. Our hearts were saddened by the passing of our dear friend. Our love and condolences to his beloved wife, Diane, and family. We will miss you in our lives. Gloria and Seymour Svirsky
      