
        SCHAFER--Dr. John F. (Jack). Dr. Jack Schafer passed away May 5th, in Santa Rosa California, of pancreatic cancer at the age of 86 after a very short illness. Jack was a plant pathologist with a productive career improving grain crops. He received a doctoral degree at the University of Wisconsin and began his career with a 19-year stint (1949-1968) on the faculty of Purdue University as a core member of a well-known Purdue-US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Small Grain Breeding Team with Ralph M. Caldwell, Leroy E. Compton and Fred L. Patterson. A parade of improved wheat, oat and barley varieties produced by this team attracted the attention of farmers, first in Indiana (home of Purdue) and eventually in all the states that grew these small grain types. ''Knox'' wheat, released in 1953, became the leading soft wheat in the US. After release of ''Arthur'' and ''Arthur 71'' Purdue-USDA soft wheat comprised over 80% of the US soft wheat acreage and greatly increased wheat yield. This Purdue team also issued hundreds of scientific publications conveying significant disease, insect and genetic discoveries. Many graduate students trained by this world famous foursome are now serving in important industry and academic positions in the US and abroad. Jack Schafer was the last living member of the original team. Jack left Purdue to head the Plant Pathology Department at Kansas State University (1968-1972), followed by eight years as head of the Plant Pathology Department at Washington State University, following his dad, Edwin Schafer, to become the first father-son pair to be department heads at the University. In 1974, while at WSU, Jack was consultant as a wheat disease expert on a trade mission to China shortly after President Nixon opened trade relations with that country. Following a short-term assignment to the USDA Integrated Pest Management Program in Beltsville, Maryland, Jack moved to the University of Minnesota, where he was the Research Leader at the USDA-Agricultural Research Service Cereal Rust Laboratory from 1982-1987 when he retired. In recognition of his research and service to plant pathology, Jack was made a fellow of the American Phytopathological Society (APS) and also served as APS president. Jack is survived by his wife Joyce of Santa Rosa, daughter Patricia South and husband Walter of New York City, son Jim and wife Andy of Paradise, CA, and four granddaughters, Claire Hines, Ruth Kmiecik, Marsha Schafer, and Amanda Schafer, and sister Judith Hiss of Akron, OH. He was preceded in death by daughter Janice and brother George. There will be a memorial service on May 18th at 2:00pm at Vineyard Commons in Santa Rosa, California and a graveside memorial service will be in August in Pepin, Wisconsin. Memorials should be sent to the Washington State University Department of Plant Pathology Graduate Student Travel Fund, or to the American Phytopathological Society Foundation directed to graduate student travel.
      