
        PALIN--Caryl. Words cannot express our overwhelming sadness. We will miss the great warmth, humor and love of our lifelong friend. Shep, Susan, Steven, Rachel and Marc Forest
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Board of Directors, staff, and members of the Food Allergy Initiative mourn the loss of Caryl Palin, our dear friend and dedicated volunteer. Caryl played a key role in FAI's growth, inspiring a family tradition of support for our signature spring luncheon, cochaired today by her daughter-in-law, Roxanne. We offer our deepest condolences to Caryl's husband, Michael; to Roxanne and her husband, Dean; to her daughters, Andrea and Dorothy; and to her nine grandchildren. Through her commitment to finding a cure, Caryl has left a legacy of hope to all who knew her, and to millions of children and families affected by lifethreatening food allergies. Todd J. Slotkin, Chairman and President Sharyn T. Mann, Vice Chairman The Food Allergy Initiative
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. We mourn the tragic loss of Caryl Palin, wife of Michael Palin our longtime partner and friend. Our heartfelt feelings go out to Michael, his children, and grandchildren. Peggy, Marvin, Jerry, Lois and the entire Sachs Family
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to the Palin's and their extended family as they mourn the death of Caryl Palin. Our thoughts and prayers are with them as they travel through this very difficult time. Kenneth and Brenda Carmel Robert and Jordana Getreu David and Alyssa Portny
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl, with deepest sympathy. We will miss our friend. Helene, Al, Adrien, Ron, Lauren, Jonathan, Rodney and Caryn
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. We will certainly miss this amazing woman, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Micky, the children, grandchildren and our dear Michele. Karen and Marty Berger
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. My beautiful, glamorous, dearest friend. Caryl, I will miss you always. Warmest affections to your wonderful husband, Mickey, and your children, Dorothy, Andrea, Dean and Roxanne and your devoted sister, Shelly and Jerry Wolkoff. Ellie Wohl
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her husband Mickey, her children Andrea, Dorothy, Dean, her grandchildren and the rest of her family. She was a wonderful and loving wife, mother and grandmother. A compassionate woman who was always sensitive to the needs of others.
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Gracious, Warm and Loving. Our heartfelt condolences to Mickey, Dorothy, Andrea, Dean and Roxanne. Ricky, Jane, Robby and Kelly Brickell
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Your presence was so much greater than your actual physical size that the void you leave for all who knew and loved you will be felt forever. We share this tremendous loss with both the Palin and Wolkoff families. The Jurist Family.
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. For our dearest friend Caryl Palin, her heart, mind and home were always open. She was a woman of unparalleled grace, style and stature, with a great commitment to her family as a wife, mother, grandmother, sister and best friend. May her spirit carry on forever. We love her and mourn her passing. Our hearts are broken. Our sympathies to the Palin family. Susan and Jeff Allen Alex and Bara Tisch Lacey and Lowell
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Caryl, the wife of our esteemed member, Michael Palin. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Board of Governors, Stuart B. Wilkins, President
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Caryl Palin, a leading supporter of the School for many years. Her love for her family members and devotion to their education has been an inspiration to all of us. Our thoughts and prayers are with Michael, Dorothy, Andrea and Dean and the family. Frank J. Carnabuci III, Headmaster The Birch Wathen Lenox School, New York City Philip S. Sassower, Chairman, Board of Trustees The Birch Wathen Lenox School, New York City
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. You were a friend when a friend was needed. You were a woman of valor and will be greatly missed by all who knew you. We send our deepest sympathy to your beloved husband, Mickey, your children, Dorothy, Andrea, Dean and Roxanne, and your grandchildren. Sam and Roni Jacobson
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl, on May 24. Beloved wife of Mickey. Adored mother of Dorothy, Andrea and Dean (Roxanne). Devoted and loving grandmother of Jack, Harry, Josh, Max, Jake, Amanda, Ben, Jesse and Danielle. Treasured sister of Michele and brother-in-law Jerry. Terrific aunt of David (Stephanie) and Adam. A loyal friend to many. Services Friday, 1pm, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Our beloved friend, you will always be in our hearts with love. Lyn and Jack, Marion and Anthony, Arlene and Larry
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Evan and I express our deepest condolences on the loss of your beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Our hearts go out to you and your family. Mitch and Evan Krieger
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Our deepest regrets to the Palin family. Caryl, you will be missed. Our Love, The Harrison and Embroz Families
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. We mourn the tragic loss of Caryl Palin, wife of our dear friend and longtime partner, Michael Palin. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, children and grandchildren. Celia and David Sachs and the entire Sachs, Siegel and Kantro families
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Our hearts are filled with sadness at the untimely loss of our beautiful friend. Deepest sympathy to Mickey, Michelle, and the entire Palin Family. Sheila, David, Natasha and Marc
        $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Your graciousness, warmth and beauty will always be with us. We were privileged to know you. Our deepest sympathy to Mickey, Dean, Dorothy, Andrea, Roxanne, all the grandchildren, Jerry and Michelle Wolkoff, David, Adam and Stephanie. Nancy and Dick Chalkin
      