
        CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy Jamieson, Delray Beach, FL, 102 years old, of 2105 Southwest 10th Court, Delray Beach, FL. formerly of Lakeville, CT, died April 11, 2007 at the Abbey Delray Health Center. In 1927, she graduated from Skidmore College. She was the wife of the late Mac A. Chamberlin who passed away on December 23, 1973. Mrs. Chamberlin and her husband Mac owned and operated the Wake Robin Inn in Lakeville, CT from 1945 to 1973. In 1964, the Chamberlins expanded their resort hotel business with the purchase of Surfside Apartments in Delray Beach, FL. Dorothy Chamberlin is survived by her sons, Winthrop Chamberlin of New York City and John Chamberlin of Leadville, CO, daughter-in-law, Lee and her grandchildren, Brandon, Felicity and Ned. Mrs. Chamberlin managed her own stock portfolio until she was 90 years old. She continued to drive to her summer home in Lakeville, CT until the early 90s and attributed her longevity to the fact that she did not play bridge. Memorial donations may be made in Mrs. Chamberlin's honor to The Dorothy Chamberlin Fund for Low Income New Yorkers, Community Service Society, 105 East 22nd Street, New York, NY 10010. $(6$)CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy J., The extended family of Orb Management expresses its deepest sympathy to our cofounder Winthrop D. Chamberlin on the death of his dear mother. May she rest in peace. $(6$)CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy J. The last generation, a widow who encouraged and courageously supported all our endeavors, A source of strength and solace, her wisdom and grace will sorely be missed. Barnet L. and Phyllis Liberman $(6$)CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy J. The officers and employees of Printing House Fitness Center express our deepest sympathy to the owner of our club, Winthrop D. Chamberlin and his family on the passing of his mother, Dorothy J. Chamberlin at 102. May her memory be a blessing. $(6$)CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy J. The Members and Employees of TruFresh LLC and its affiliates, Winterlab Scientific and Peacock Canning, note with sorrow the death of Dorothy Chamberlin, mother of our beloved co-founder, Winthrop D. Chamberlin. We extend our sincere sympathy to the family.
      