
        di MAYORCA--Enrica, affectionately known as Kicca to her many friends and Nonna to her seven grandchildren, died Saturday, June 16th, in Summit, New Jersey. Born in Milan, Italy, in 1935, Kicca spent her childhood and youth with her brother, Paolo, and her beloved sister Laura, playing competitive tennis and enjoying their parents country home in Alzate, Brianza. Kicca and her siblings gathered at Vill'Angela in Longone for many joyous years, strengthening the bonds of their growing families, which eventually included their seven children. Kicca deeply loved her nieces and nephews and was proud that the cousins remained close friends even though distance separated them. Kicca moved to the United States in 1968 with her husband, Giampiero di Mayorca, who was a microbiologist. They lived in Omaha, Nebraska, Chicago, Illinois, and moved to Summit, New Jersey in 1978, when her husband became the Chairman of the Microbiology Department at UMDNJ. Everyone who knew Kicca will remember her kindness. She was truly interested in others, always supporting her family and friends with thoughtfulness, warmth, humor and grace. Having earned her baccalaureate at the University of Grenoble in France, Kicca was able to extend her kindness and knowledge to Summit High School, where she volunteered, teaching French and working in the office. She was a mother and advisor to many of her and her childrens' friends, many of whom considered her their adopted sister and mother. Many other talents can be attributed to Kicca. She was an artist who decorated fine China with her own exquisite floral designs, a fabulous cook, whose Italian tomato sauce and pasta can never be forgotten or duplicated, a collector of art whose taste in interior design served as an inspiration to all, and a master bridge player who was most happy to teach difficult conventions and technical logistics. Her love of family was the force, which motivated her life. She is survived by her brother Paolo, her sister, Laura, her daughter Emilia Fabricant and her husband Bob, her son Marco and his wife Ashley, and her seven beloved grandchildren, Kicca, Maria, Matteo, Bobby, Caterina, Ethan and Federica. Anyone who knew Kicca will appreciate the simple truth in her grandson's poem to her, illustrated with a tiger, and written especially for her: Roses are red, violets are blue. No one has a bigger heart than you! A memorial service will be held at St. Teresa of Avila in Summit, New Jersey on Wednesday, June 20th, 2007 at 10:45 am. Arrangements by Paul Ippolito Summit Memorial, 7 Summit Ave., Summit, NJ (www.ippolitofuneralhomes .com). In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to The Maria Fund, c/o Katie McGrath, UM Cancer Center Development, 301 East Liberty, Suite 400, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104-2251 to aid the University of Michigan's continued efforts to cure Leukemia.
      