
        EVANS--Charles. A devoted and much beloved member of the Alzheimer's Association family. An ardent supporter of the Association's national research program, a devotee of the Alzheimer's Association Rita Hayworth Gala since 1984, and a Zenith Fellow. He will be greatly missed by the Alzheimer's Association's Board of Directors, Harry Johns, President and CEO, Jerry Stone, Honorary Chairman, Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, Honorary Vice Chairman and founder of the Rita Hayworth Galas, and the members of the Gala Steering Committee.
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Beloved husband of Bonnie, loving father of Charles Jr. and the late Melissa and Elizabeth, sweet grandfather to Lily, adored brother of Robert and Alice, cherished uncle of Michael, Joshua, and Tony, and extraordinary friend to legions, passed away peacefully on June 2nd. As co-founder of Evan-Picone, he created one of Americas most recognized sportswear firms. He went on to form the Evans Partnership, a real estate development company, with his late brother-in-law Michael Shure. He was Executive Producer of the 1981 film Tootsie, after which he founded Charles Evans Productions, and went on to produce other films. He was National Director of the Alzheimer's Association and founded the Crusade for Fire Detection Ltd. Charles embraced life with passion all over the world. He will be missed by many people in many places. The family will be receiving friends at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday June 6 from 5-8pm. Services will be held Thursday June 7 at 12pm at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the following: The Alzheimer's Association care of Mark Hopkins 225 North Michigan Ave. Chicago, IL 60601, FDNY Foundation, 9 Metrotech Ctr. Room 5E-10 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Helping Hands, care of Robert Stern 541 Cambridge St. Boston, MA 02134.
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. You helped us plant the seed that became Chop't. You watered and nurtured the business with your patience, your keen insight, plain logic, your unparalleled sense of style and taste, and mostly your unwavering high standard for quality. We will carry on with your credo: ''better sells better.'' We will always miss you and will never forget the dream that you brought to life. The whole team at Chop't
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Helping Hands: Monkey Helpers for the Disabled fondly remembers Charles Evans for his generosity and concern for his fellow man. We extend our condolences to Mrs. Evans and family.
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Dear friend, business associate. Knowing Charles was a treat. A wonderful generous person with whom we had a long, warm relationship. We always held Charles in the highest esteem. Our sincere condolences to the family. He will be missed. Irving and Ruth Spitalnick
      