
        KALTMAN--Martin, died on June 15th at the age of 92. He had homes in Old Westbury, NY and Key Biscayne, FL. He was a man of great vision, imagination and a pioneer of the modern Lithographic industry in New York. With fellow Brooklyn Tech graduate Max Verebay they started Kaltman Press in 1932 to print labels by the letterpress process. They remained partners for 66 years. When the LP record was invented in 1947, they started printing album covers. With the advent of lithography they joined with Jack Hecht in 1950 to create Queens Lithographing Corp. in Long Island City. With the growth of album sales in the sixties. Queens Litho printed all Beatles and Rolling Stones LPs and the company grew rapidly. During that period the company opened factories in Edison, NJ and Indianapolis. In 1964 the company displayed an operating printing press on the floor of Grand Central Station. The volume of music packaging exploded in the eighties with the introduction of the compact-disc and the company added a factory in Louisville to handle the growth. The company changed its name to Queens Group Inc. Packaging for Home Video, Video games and Software created the need for added capacity and the company built two factories in North Carolina. The company also produced high quality packaging for cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and private label. The company was sold in 1998 and is now part of International Paper. A philanthropist, Mr. Kaltman actively supported UJA-Federation, MOMA, Julliard School where he endowed a scholarship, NSUH-LIJ Health System and the Botanical Gardens in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. Martin was a founder of American Friends of Boystown Jerusalem and his company donated a printing press to the school in Israel. He loved growing plants, flowers, trees, vegetables and studied Horticulture at SUNY Farmingdale, and helped establish The Gardens at Crandon Park in Key Biscayne. He was a beloved husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and uncle. Mr. Kaltman's first wife, the former Helen Reich, died in 1984. He is survived by his second wife, the former Rosalie Podoll, her children and grandchildren. His son Eric and wife Marnee of Old Westbury, NY, their children Dennis, Richard, Jodi, Jon, their spouses and eight greatgrandchildren. His daughter Gail Bates and husband Dennis of Marietta, GA, their children Stephanie, Robin, their spouses and four greatgrandchildren. Memorial contributions may be sent to Queens Botanical Garden, attention: Susan Lacerte, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing, NY 11355.
      