
        CLIGGOTT--Richard T., Sr., founder of Cliggott Publishing Company and a pioneer in the medical publishing world died at his home in Greenwich, CT, June 9th with his wife, Janet at his side. In 1970, Mr. Cliggott led a group of investors in the purchase of ''Consultant Magazine'' from Smith Kline and French to create Cliggott Publishing. From the start, Cliggott Publishing produced original, peer reviewed articles written by physicians for the purpose of advancing medical practice. Cliggott Publishing set the standard for editorial integrity and excellence. Soon after the inception of the company, three other journals were launched, the ''Journal of Respiratory Diseases'', the ''Journal of Musculoskeletal Medicine'' and the ''Journal of Critical Illness'', as well as a series of independently sponsored journals. Born in Andover, MA, April 14, 1928, Mr. Cliggott grew up on the Cape in Cotuit, MA. As a young boy during the depression years on Cape Cod, Mr. Cliggott helped support his family by working on farms doing everything from bailing hay to exercising horses. Upon graduation from Barnstable High he joined the Army, serving two years in Korea earning the rank of Master Sergeant. After the army he attended Worcester Academy. Worcester is where he developed his abilities to achieve in both academics and athletics. Mr. Cliggott devoted his life to the school motto, ''Achieve the Honorable'' He became driven to use his intellect, discipline and work ethic to become successful and make his family proud of him. Worcester Academy led Mr. Cliggott to Cornell University on an academic scholarship. For his leadership both in the classroom and on the athletic field he was admitted into the Honorary Quill & Dagger Society. While at Cornell, Mr. Cliggott played varsity baseball and football and in 1953 made Honorable Mention All American in football. During his summer months, Mr. Cliggott was a star player for the Cotuit Kettlers in the Cape Cod summer baseball league. Mr. Cliggott graduated from Cornell in 1953 and worked for the university in their development office. He left Cornell in 1955 and worked for Procter and Gamble where he received his sales and management training. In 1959, Medical Economics of Oradell, NJ hired him and introduced Mr. Cliggott to medical publishing. From 1970-1996 Mr. Cliggott developed Cliggott Publishing into one of America's most admired and respected medical publishing companies. In 1996, Mr. Cliggott sold the company and retired. Mr. Cliggott and his wife of 56 years, Janet, divided their time between their homes in Tequesta, FL and Greenwich, CT. An avid sportsman and outdoorsman, he loved golfing, boating, fishing, hunting and bird watching. Mr. Cliggott was a member of Cornell University's Laboratory Ornithology and the Cornell Plantation. As president of Greenwich Country Club he helped oversee the redesign of the golf course into a competitively challenging course. Mr. Cliggott was a true gentleman and a wonderful story teller with a great sense of humor. He was generous, always taking the time to make those he cared about feel appreciated by him. He was respected and admired by everyone whose lives he touched. Most of all he was devoted to his wife and loved spending time with his children and grandchildren. He is survived by his wife, Janet, his children and their families; Nancy and Bill Hansen and their children Bill, Ricky, and Joe; Dick Jr. and Monica Cliggott and their children Tom and James; Michael and Holly Cliggott and their son Andrew; Patricia and Doug Kent, and Tim Cliggott. In lieu of flowers the family requests memorial donations to be made to Worcester Academy, Cornell University Plantations, or the Cornell University School of Ornithology
      