
        PIONK--Richard, June 5, 2007. Esteemed painter, teacher. The Artists Fellowship, Inc. mourns the loss of our devoted Trustee and dear friend.
        $(6$)PIONK--Richard Cletus, instructor of Painting at The Art Student's League of New York and President of the Salmagundi Club, died Tuesday, June 5 in New York. Mr. Pionk was a renowned and respected artist who won hundreds of awards and honors during his prolific career. He also served on the boards of many art organizations. In 1984, he was named Master Pastelist by Pastel Society of America for Exceptional Merit and, in 1997, was inducted into the Pastel Hall of Fame. Mr. Pionk exhibited with the Pastel Society of America in Still Life Painters of the 20th Century, at the Hermitage Museum, Norfolk, Virginia; the Monmouth Gallery, New York; the Queens Museum, the Chapellier Galleries; the Oak Tree Gallery, New York; The Allied Artists of America; Portraits Incorporated; Lever House; Union Carbide, New York; Grand Central Art Gallery; and at the Society of Pastelists, Lille, France, among others. Before moving to New York, he studied in a Franciscan monastery in Missouri. He also served in the United States Navy. Mr. Pionk was born April 26, 1936 in Moose Lake, MN to Ester and Ignatz Pionk of Kerrick, MN. Richard died after a long battle with cancer in New York City at NYU Medical Center. He was survived by his sisters Erma Ketchmark of Hinkley, MN and Audrey Rustad of Wrenshall, MN and his brother Duane Pionk of Superior, WI. His many nieces and nephews will miss him deeply. He was preceded in death by his parents, his brother Robert Pionk, and good friend Franz Spielmann. The funeral will be held at St. Francis Catholic Church in Carlton, MN (218)384-4563 at 10:00am on June 12th and his final resting place will be in Kerrick, MN next to his mother and father. A formal memorial will be planned for September 2007 at the Salmagundi Club in New York City. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to the Richard C. Pionk Memorial Fund at the Salmagundi Club, 47 Fifth Avenue, New York 10003, (212)255-7740. For more information you may contact the Nelson Funeral Home in Cloquet, MN (218)879-3225.
      