
        SAINER--Janet. The finest of social workers and pioneer in services to older people, Janet's legacy will be felt for years to come. Barbara Silverstone and Ann Burack-Weiss
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. With great sadness the NYC Department for the Aging mourns the passing of Janet Sainer. She was a true visionary in the field of aging. Janet Sainer served as Commissioner of the NYC Department for the Aging from 1978-1989. She was a tireless advocate for seniors and senior services until the time of her death. She kept a rigorous schedule advocating on behalf of seniors, grandparents and caregivers. Janet's tremendous legacy includes the creation of the nations first Alzheimer's Unit here at the Department, Citymeals - On Wheels, DFTA's intergenerational work study program, its Grandparent Resource Center, and the Retired Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) for the Community Service Society. Janet's vision, spirit and legacy will live on through the programs she established at the department. Edwin Mendez-Santiago, LCSW, Commissioner
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. The Aging in New York Fund mourns the passing of its founder and continuing mentor and board member, Janet Sainer. The matriarch of ANYF, Commissioner Sainer was a visionary leader and innovator in the field of aging services in New York City and throughout the country. Now in its 23rd year, ANYF derives its mission from Commissioner Sainer's vision for an organization dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for older New Yorkers and their families through public/private partnerships, seeking resources to develop innovative service models that address the unmet needs of New York City's elderly, caregivers and the network of aging service providers. Under Janet Sainer's tenure as Commissioner of the New York City Department for the Aging, ANYF sponsored the City's first annual Mayoral Conference on Alzheimers Disease and numerous initiatives focusing on the needs of personal and professional caregivers and it launched the first home delivered meals program and other activities that serve today as models in other parts of the country. From its inception, ANYF has benefited from Commissioner Sainer's guidance and wisdom. Its initiatives and programs on behalf of New York City's older adults are the enduring legacy of her enlightened inspiration and accomplishment. Allen B. Roberts Chairman Edwin Mendez-Santiago, LCSW, President Ali Hodin-Baier Executive Director
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. On June 4th, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Herman. She is survived by two daughters, one son, her sister, two granddaughters, and one grandson. Services Thursday, 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.
      