
        SAINER--Janet S. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Brookdale Foundation Group extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Janet Sainer. We had the privilege of working with Janet over the last 17 years and are so grateful for her wisdom and guidance in developing programs for older people across the country. It is rare for a person to touch so many lives...Janet did. Her lifelong energy and passion for improving the lives of elders will guide the field in the future. She was a Great Lady and will be missed. The Brookdale Foundation Stephen L. Schwartz, President
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. The Hunter College community mourns the loss of a dear friend and proud alumna. A pioneer in the field of aging, Janet served as Commissioner of the NYC Department of Aging and dedicated herself to improving the quality of life for older New Yorkers for more than 50 years. Her contributions to Hunter and its Brookdale Center on Healthy Aging and Longevity will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Janet's family. Jennifer J. Raab President, Hunter College
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. Janet and Hy welcomed Alfred and me to New York and New Jersey when we arrived here. We loved them both, and Janet was one of the most effective and beloved people in the field of gerontology. With sympathy and affection for Janet's family, Rose Dobrof
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. Citymealson-Wheels Board and staff are deeply saddened by the loss of Janet Sainer, our onetime partner, longtime friend and dedicated Board member, passionate advocate for the city's elderly, an inspiration to women and community-minded citizens everywhere. Citymeals might never have taken root and flourished without her instinctive response, her enthusiasm and creativity in 1981 as the Commissioner for the New York City Department for the Aging. She was a pioneer and tireless activist in the field of aging, developing innovative programs copied nationwide. She was the energy behind the Retired Senior Volunteer Program with over 700 sites across the country and established the city's Alzheimer's Resource Center. And she remained an aggressive activist for the elderly long into her own 80s, bringing her wisdom just this week to a conference in Denver where she delivered her last plea for the cause that filled her life with meaning. Feeling this sad loss ourselves, we send comfort to Janet's family who so clearly adored her.
      