
        PETRIE--John A. II, It is with tremendous sadness and deep affection that the entire New York Hospital Queens family mourns the passing of one of our own, John A. Petrie II, our Vice President for Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Compliance Officer. Mr. Petrie was a strong and ever-calm source of expertise and excellence during his life and his 38-year tenure at the Medical Center. He will be remembered with fondness. During his distinguished career, his contributions permeated the fabric of the hospital's evolution and growth, as he rose from accounts manager and assistant controller, through a variety of critical administrative and operations positions, and then to vice president in the mid-1980s. As a member of the management team, he successfully guided our organization through innumerable accreditation surveys. Additionally, he was a Fellow of the American College of Healthcare Executives. Along the way he was a mentor and friend to many-and he helped to shape the delive ry of healthcare in Queens. He focused on doing right by the patient, their concerned families, our community, and our employees. While we know his passing will bring his body peace, many will feel the loss of this man. On behalf of all our management and administration, clinical leadership and medical staff, employees, volunteers and auxilians, we offer our condolences to his family, including his beloved wife Daphne, his children John Petrie, III, M.D. and Randall Petrie, Esq., his four grandchildren, and his brothers and sisters. His sister Grace Goveia and his son John are also members of the New York Hospital Queens family. Stephen S. Mills, President and CEO John E. Sciortino, Sr. VP and COO, William G. Wolff, M.D. Chairman, Medical Board David H. Snyder, M.D. President, Medical Staff Society $(6$)PETRIE--John A. II, with tears in our eyes and smiles in our memories, the employees of New York Hospital Queens say farewell to our colleague and friend John A. Petrie II. Mr. Petrie was a trusted colleague and friend for 38 years and he made remarkable contributions to the growth of this hospital's capacity to take care of people. All that have had the pleasure of knowing him will miss him. Perhaps the best way we can communicate how important he has been as a person and as an influence to us is by sharing some of his words from a ceremony during which he was honored with the 2002 Healthcare Chaplaincy's Wholeness of Life Award: ''This is a special day for me. Today my colleagues and the Chaplaincy of New York are recognizing me. I say thank you for expressing kind thoughts. It is a humbling experience to stand here and listen to such accolades. Indeed, I consider myself a dedicated healthcare worker, whose adult life has been immersed in addressing the wholeness of life. Over the years, I have not used scapels or stethoscopes, but I am attuned to the beating heart of the newborn, the aching heart of the sick, and the greiving heart of the relatives and families who visit from the community... I accept this honor with humility and pride.'' His words from that special day define how Mr. Petrie lived and worked. Now it is our hearts that grieve the loss of a wonderful role model and kind friend. We offer our condolences to his family, including his beloved wife Daphne, his children John Petrie III, M.D. and Randall Petrie, Esq., his four grandchildren, and his brothers and sisters. His sister Grace Goveia and his son John are also members of the New York Hospital Queens family. The Employees of New York Hospital Queens $(6$)PETRIE--John A. II. With great sadness, the Board of Trustees of New York Hospi tal Queens mourns the passing of John A. Petrie II, Vice President for Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Compliance Officer. Mr. Petrie was the consummate professional in each of the many responsibilities he took on during his 38-year career at the Medical Center. We always counted on him to build new paths and lead the way down them. This was something he did with quiet, determined strength, and an equal dose of warmth and humor. On behalf of all our trustees, we offer our condolences to his family, including his wife, Daphne, his children, John Petrie III, M.D. and Randall Petrie, Esq., his four grandchildren, and his brothers and sisters. George F. Heinrich, M.D. Chairman Stephen S. Mills, President and Cheif Executive Officer Members of the Board of Trustees
      