
        DiJOSEPH--Louis R., a former longtime resident of Darien, CT, died of complications due to Parkinson's disease at his home in San Francisco, CA, on Wednesday, May 30 at age 79. Born in 1928 in Philadelphia, PA, he was the son of the late John and Jennie DiJoseph. Upon graduation from the University of the Arts, in Philadelphia, he embarked on a successful career as an art director in advertising. His first accounts included Rolls Royce Motors, Holland Cheese and KLM Airlines at Erwin, Wasey, Ruthrauff and Ryan in New York. After a seven year stint at Young & Rubicam/NY working on Dr. Pepper and Eastern Airlines, he moved to NW Ayer to help develop the highly effective ''Be All You Can Be'' campaign for the U.S. Army. In 1980, he returned to Young & Rubicam/ NY to become a group creative director for Dr. Pepper, Eastern Airlines, Japan Airlines, AT&T International, and 7-11 Stores, General Foods, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Adidas athletic shoes. Along with more than over 100 awards from the Art Director's Club, the One Show, the Andy Awards, Communication Arts magazine, the Cannes Film Festival and the Clio awards, he was presented with the Civilian Distinguished Service Medal, for his work for the U.S. Army. In 1991 he left his position as an executive vicepresident, worldwide creative director to pursue a career in fine art photography. From 1991 to 1996 working out of his studio in Darien, Connecticut, he exhibited at the Rowayton Arts Center the Silvermine Guild and the Darien Council on the Arts. Since his move to San Francisco in 1996 he had concentrated, almost exclusively, on photo emulsion transfers, exhibiting at the Calumet Gallery and in solo shows at Renzo, Cafe Faba and the Focus Gallery. He is survived by his wife, Melinda W. Mettler; his brother John DiJoseph, Jr, of Springfield, PA, three children: Christopher DiJoseph of Norwalk, CT, Jennifer DiJoseph of Buffalo, NY, and Joshua DiJoseph of Barrington, NH, as well as three grandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife, Nancy Newbold DiJoseph. A memorial reception and show of his artwork will be held at later date. Details will be available at loudijoseph.com. In lieu of flowers, donations in Louis R. DiJoseph's name may be sent to The National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Office of Development, 1501 NW 9th Avenue/Bob Hope Road, Miami, Florida 33136-1494.
      