
        SAINER--Janet. Council of Senior Centers and Services has lost a dear friend, mentor and visionary. As a longtime Board member, she set the standard to which we all aspire. We will miss her leadership, enthusiasm, wisdom, and grace. William Dionne, CSCS President Igal Jellinek, CSCS Executive Director
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our former Board member, Mrs. Janet Sainer, a pioneer in the field of aging and intergenerational programs. Her service as a special consultant to the Brookdale Foundation has continued to enrich JDC's efforts on behalf of the elderly in Israel and around the world. A former Commissioner of the New York City Department for the Aging, the country's largest such area agency, Mrs. Sainer was a leader in the policy and practice of aging services for more than 50 years. A pilot program she developed early in her career led to the establishment of the national Retired and Senior Volunteer Program, and her unflagging activism in her own ''retirement'' years was the best evidence for the contribution she knew seniors could make to the world around them. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family, and may her memory be for a blessing. Judge Ellen M. Heller, President Eugene J. Ribakoff, Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager, Executive Vice-President
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. With great sadness the NYC Department for the Aging mourns the passing of Janet Sainer. She was a true visionary in the field of aging. Janet Sainer served as Commissioner of the NYC Department for the Aging from 1978-1989. She was a tireless advocate for seniors and senior services until the time of her death. She kept a rigorous schedule advocating on behalf of seniors, grandparents and caregivers. Janet's tremendous legacy includes the creation of the nations first Alzheimer's Unit here at the Department, Citymeals - On Wheels, DFTA's intergenerational work study program, its Grandparent Resource Center, and the Retired Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) for the Community Service Society. Janet's vision, spirit and legacy will live on through the programs she established at the department. Edwin Mendez-Santiago, LCSW, Commissioner
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. The Aging in New York Fund mourns the passing of its founder and continuing mentor and board member, Janet Sainer. The matriarch of ANYF, Commissioner Sainer was a visionary leader and innovator in the field of aging services in New York City and throughout the country. Now in its 23rd year, ANYF derives its mission from Commissioner Sainer's vision for an organization dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for older New Yorkers and their families through public/private partnerships, seeking resources to develop innovative service models that address the unmet needs of New York City's elderly, caregivers and the network of aging service providers. Under Janet Sainer's tenure as Commissioner of the New York City Department for the Aging, ANYF sponsored the City's first annual Mayoral Conference on Alzheimers Disease and numerous initiatives focusing on the needs of personal and professional caregivers and it launched the first home delivered meals program and other activities that serve today as models in other parts of the country. From its inception, ANYF has benefited from Commissioner Sainer's guidance and wisdom. Its initiatives and programs on behalf of New York City's older adults are the enduring legacy of her enlightened inspiration and accomplishment. Allen B. Roberts Chairman Edwin Mendez-Santiago, LCSW, President Ali Hodin-Baier Executive Director
        $(6$)SAINER--Janet. The entire DOROT community mourns the loss of a beloved friend and a peerless advocate for the elderly. The author of numerous ground breaking programs benefiting the aged, Janet generously encouraged initiative in others. Her support of DOROT's Homelessness Prevention Program was especially welcome. We will miss her warmth, her vision and her passionate leadership, and express deepest condolences to her family. Paula Stamler Resnick and Philip Silverman, Co-Presidents Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Executive Director
      