
        ADAMS--D. Nelson, of Barneveld, NY and New York City died peacefully May 31, 2007 at Partridge Hill, his beloved Barneveld home. He was 97. He was a graduate of the Buckley School, Hotchkiss School, Yale University where he was a member of the Whiffenpoofs, and Harvard Law School where he was President of the Harvard Law Review. From 1935 to 1936, he served as a law clerk to Judge Learned Hand of the U.S. Court of Appeals. From 1942 to 1946, he served in the Army Air Force, where he achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Nelson joined the law firm of Davis Polk and Wardwell in 1936. He was elected partner in 1949, named head of the tax department in 1950 and Managing Partner of the firm in 1970. Nelson was devoted to many charitable and community interests. He served as president of the Buckley School and was a trustee of the Bugher Foundation, the National Hypertension Association, the Schuyler Center for Analysis and Advocacy, and the Foundation for Mood Disorders. Nelson was predeceased by his wife Diana and by his brother Howard. He is survived and deeply missed by his son, Daniel, and his grandsons, Bryan and Bruce. Nelsons family will hold him always in their hearts. He was a true gentleman, always kind and generous of spirit. A Memorial Service will be held at 4:00 P.M, June 28, at St. James' Church, 865 Madison Ave. The Funeral will be in Barneveld. For information: dan@daniel-adams.com. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Danny Adams Fund at The Community Foundation of Herkimer and Oneida County, 1222 State Street, Utica, NY.
        $(6$)ADAMS--Daniel Nelson. It is with great sadness that The Buckley School of the City of New York announces the death of beloved alumnus, Honorary Trustee and former parent, Nelson Adams. A member of the Class of 1924, Mr. Adams was also an alumnus of The Hotchkiss School, Harvard University and Yale University. Mr. Adams served on the Buckley Board of Trustees from 1950 to 1983. During that time he was elected President of the Board twice and served as an Honorary Trustee until his death. He will be deeply missed by all of us in the Buckley community who benefited from his wisdom, humor and integrity. Our condolences go to his son, Dan Adams of Barneveld, NY; and to his grandsons, Bruce Adams of Hartford, CT, and Bryan Adams of Canton, CT, and their families. There will be a memorial service on Thursday, June 28th at 4p.m. at St. James Church, 865 Madison Avenue. Jeffrey F. Welles, President Nancy G. Blackford, Vice President Gregory J. O'Melia, Headmaster Brian R. Walsh, Headmaster Emeritus, The Buckley School
      