
        EVANS--Charles. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished and longtime member Charles Evans. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia Waxman, President Robert A. Calinoff, Secretary
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Beloved husband of Bonnie, loving father of Charles Jr. and the late Melissa and Elizabeth, sweet grandfather to Lily, adored brother of Robert and Alice, cherished uncle of Michael, Joshua, and Tony, and extraordinary friend to legions, passed away peacefully on June 2nd. As co-founder of Evan-Picone, he created one of Americas most recognized sportswear firms. He went on to form the Evans Partnership, a real estate development company, with his late brother-in-law Michael Shure. He was Executive Producer of the 1981 film Tootsie, after which he founded Charles Evans Productions, and went on to produce other films. He was National Director of the Alzheimer's Association and founded the Crusade for Fire Detection Ltd. Charles embraced life with passion all over the world. He will be missed by many people in many places. The family will be receiving friends at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday June 6 from 5-8pm. Services will be held Thursday June 7 at 12pm at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the following: The Alzheimer's Association care of Mark Hopkins 225 North Michigan Ave. Chicago, IL 60601, FDNY Foundation, 9 Metrotech Ctr. Room 5E-10 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Helping Hands, care of Robert Stern 541 Cambridge St. Boston, MA 02134.
        $(6$)EVANS--Charles. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club, deeply mourn the loss of their beloved friend and esteemed member, Friar Charles Evans. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held on Thursday June 7, at 12pm at Temple Emanu-el. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
      