
        Godfrey P. Schmidt, a labor lawyer who was retained in the late 1950's by teamsters opposed to the union's newly elected president, James R. Hoffa, died on Sept. 27 at Marian Manor, a nursing home in Boston. He was 95 and had lived for the last eight years with a daughter in Virginia, after spending most of his life in the New York City area.
        After Mr. Hoffa was elected to succeed Dave Beck as president of the union in 1957, a group of anti-Hoffa teamsters mounted a fight against his victory, contending that the vote had been flawed. They hired Mr. Schmidt to represent them.
        After retaining him, the 13 insurgents sued to stop Mr. Hoffa from beginning his presidency. A settlement was reached, under which Mr. Hoffa and other elected officers became ''provisional'' officers, overseen by a board of monitors, until a new election took place. Mr. Schmidt became one of the monitors, representing the dissidents.
        The three-member board was established by Judge F. Dickinson Letts of Federal District Court in January 1958. In the consent decree establishing the monitors, the union agreed to allow Mr. Hoffa to remain as president.
        Mr. Schmidt resigned as a monitor in 1959, but continued to represent dissident teamsters.
        The monitors' task, as set by Judge Letts, was to supervise a ''house cleaning'' of the 1.6 million-member union. Instead, by late 1960, the monitors had become entangled in charges and countercharges by Mr. Hoffa and the anti-Hoffa faction. In 1961 Mr. Hoffa was re-elected by acclamation.
        John Hutchinson, a scholar of industrial relations, wrote in his book ''The Imperfect Union: A History of Corruption in American Trade Unions'' (1972): ''The achievements of the monitors were meager, and very expensive for the teamsters. By the end of 1960, they had cost the union $634,026 in direct expenses and probably over $1 million in legal fees.''
        Among the problems the monitors encountered, Mr. Hutchinson wrote, was the damage done to their credibility ''by the finding of an appellate court that Godfrey Schmidt engaged in conflict-of-interest activities while he was a monitor by representing various employers in negotiations with the teamsters; he was obliged to resign from the board of monitors, but was allowed to designate his successor.''
        Mr. Schmidt was born in the Bronx and received a bachelor's degree in 1925 and a law degree in 1930, both from Fordham University, where he later taught constitutional law. Over the years he also served as deputy commissioner of the New York State Labor Department and was appointed by President Harry S. Truman to the labor panel of the Atomic Energy Commission.
        For many years Mr. Schmidt, who also practiced in Washington, was a sole practitioner. His clients included Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York, and the American Manufacturers Association. He retired in 1991.
        His wife of 42 years, the former Grace Hunt, died in 1975. His second wife, the former Evelyne Genovese, died in 1990.
        He is survived by daughters Marianne Schmidt of Boston, Aggie Dowd of North Hampton, N.H., Colette Kingsepp of Front Royal, Va., and Mary Meade of Vienna, Va.; sons, Peter, of Manhattan, and Paul, of Dallas; 13 grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      