
        West Nkosi, a saxophonist, songwriter and producer who helped bring South African music to the outside world, died on Thursday in Johannesburg from injuries he had received in a car crash, said an executive of Gallo Records, where Mr. Nkosi had made hits since the 1960's. He was 58.
        The accident in August had left Mr. Nkosi paralyzed.
        Mr. Nkosi was a prime mover for more than three decades of South African music, combining traditional elements with pop. By signing and acting as producer for the a cappella choir Ladysmith Black Mambazo, he set the direction for iscathamiya, Ladysmith's ''stalking style,'' with its quiet and loud passages.
        As a producer and the saxophonist for the band Makgona Tsohle, he shaped the style called sax jive and then the music that grew out of it, called mbaqanga (named after a homemade stew) or mgqashiyo, ''the indestructible beat.'' It was the beat that Paul Simon used for many of the songs on the 1986 album ''Graceland,'' which also featured Ladysmith Black Mambazo's vocals.
        To create mbaqanga, Mr. Nkosi said in 1990, ''We took a little bit from each individual tribe, put them together and made one solid rhythm that could cater to all the South African people.'' Some of Mr. Nkosi's recordings can be heard on a series of collections called ''The Indestructible Beat of Soweto'' (Shanachie).
        Mr. Nkosi was born in Nelspruit, South Africa, and came to Johannesburg when he was 16. His first instrument was a penny whistle, the lead instrument in a South African pop style called kwela. As kwela gave way to sax jive, Mr. Nkosi took up the alto saxophone.
        The Makgona Tsohle band became the Gallo Records studio band through the 1960's and 1970's. Mr. Nkosi wrote more than 100 songs and was heard on hundreds of recordings.
        While working with Makgona Tsohle, Mr. Nkosi became a producer with Mavuthela, the black-music division of Gallo Records. He signed Ladysmith Black Mambazo and produced 22 albums for the group, which merges Zulu traditional styles with gospel.
        Every album released by Ladysmith Black Mambazo has been a gold album (selling 25,000 copies) in South Africa, and some have sold more than 200,000 copies there. ''Nobody wanted to record that kind of music, without guitars,'' Mr. Nkosi said in an interview for ''The Rough Guide to World Music'' (1994). ''But I took it up and it worked out good.''
        Mr. Nkosi had hits of his own, notably the sax-jive tune ''2 Mabone'' (''Two Headlights'') in the 1970's, which spawned a dance craze. His best-known mbaqanga production was Mahlathini and the Mahotella Queens, a deep bass ''groaner'' and a female harmony group, who adapted traditional Zulu wedding songs to a pop format. Backed by Makgona Tsohle, the group became hugely popular in South Africa in the 1960's and 70's, and was discovered internationally in the 80's.
        Mr. Nkosi continued to produce music for Gallo Records through the 90's, recording, among others, the Zulu traditional singer Phuzekemisi and Zulu-style pop with Joe Mifela.
        He is survived by his wife, Thami, and three daughters.
      