
        Robert Allen, a Dartmouth-trained actor whose youthful experience playing polo, hunting foxes and riding in the cavalry at a military academy helped him land the role of the original Texas Ranger in 1930's westerns, died on Friday in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 92.
        Mr. Allen appeared in more than 40 films in the 1930's -- including the 1935 version of ''Crime and Punishment,'' playing Dmitri alongside Peter Lorre as Raskolnikov -- and had a long career in the theater after World War II, starring in the original production of ''Auntie Mame.'' But he is best remembered for the six ''Bob Allen, Ranger'' films made in 1936 and 1937, hourlong dramas in which he calmly saved a series of frontier towns from cattle rustlers, bandits, rampaging Indians and other menaces.
        Mr. Allen, whose original name was Irvine E. Theodore Baehr, was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., graduated from Dartmouth in 1929 with a degree in English and got a job at a bank. It was a bad time for the profession: the bank failed when the Depression hit. Mr. Allen then worked as a commercial pilot, but that company, too, went bankrupt. Finally he took the advice of a friend and headed to Hollywood to pursue the acting career he had abandoned after college to mollify his family.
        Mr. Allen quickly found plenty of work and starred in a string of movies. He appeared in ''The Perils of Pauline'' and ''Love Me Forever'' and was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance in the title role of ''The Life of Lafayette'' in 1936.
        Also that year, after roles in several westerns opposite Tim McCoy, Mr. Allen was rewarded by Columbia Pictures with his own series. The first ''Bob Allen, Ranger'' movie, ''The Unknown Ranger,'' was warmly received, and five more followed, including ''Rio Grande Ranger,'' ''Reckless Ranger'' and ''The Rangers Step In.''
        But by late 1937, it was not enough for a movie cowboy merely to talk, rope and ride. Columbia was looking for a singing cowboy to compete with Gene Autry, and Mr. Allen's ability to handle a horse was not enough to compensate for his inability to play the guitar. He was replaced by a young man from Ohio named Roy Rogers.
        Mr. Allen appeared in more than two dozen movies after that, including a Walt Disney feature, ''Brimstone, the Amish Horse.'' He also acted in television shows, documentary films and commercials.
        But he found he much preferred the theater, said his son, Dr. Theodore Baehr, and he spent most of the rest of his career onstage. He had major roles in the original Broadway productions of ''Show Boat'' and ''Kiss Them for Me.'' And beginning in 1956, he was the villainous lawyer, Mr. Babcock, in ''Auntie Mame,'' opposite Rosalind Russell and then Greer Garson. He appeared in dozens of other plays, on Broadway, Off Broadway and around the country. He also became a real estate broker in 1964.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by a daughter, Katherine Meyer, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 21, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on Oct. 7 of Robert Allen, an actor who played the original Texas Ranger in 1930's westerns, misstated several aspects of his career. Mr. Allen was never nominated for an Academy Award. He appeared in supporting and not principal roles in Broadway productions of ''Show Boat,'' ''Auntie Mame'' and ''Kiss Them for Me.'' He appeared in a revival of ''Show Boat,'' not the original production. And neither the Walt Disney Company nor the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences could confirm the existence of a film called ''Brimstone, the Amish Horse,'' in which Mr. Allen's family said he appeared.
      