
        Robert Lee Gill, a longtime member of the New York Stock Exchange and a prominent collector of American antiques, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Mr. Gill was born in South Orange, N.J., in 1911 and attended Choate. He joined Shields & Company in 1932,  and in the late 1940's formed a company with three other members of the stock exchange, but for most of his career he worked independently.
        Mr. Gill's interest in Americana began at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where he was a regular visitor to the American collection from the time it opened, in 1927, until his death. In the late 1930's he began collecting first-edition books and Currier & Ives prints. He also made regular visits to the Upper East Side gallery of Israel Sack, a dealer in Americana and American antiques,  becoming part of what was then the small world of serious collectors of  American antiques, with members including Henry Ford, Henry Francis du Pont and Ima Hogg.
        In 1942 Mr. Gill bought his first antique, a lowboy once owned by John Hancock. Over the next few decades he formed an exceptional collection, primarily 17th- and 18th-century Boston, Federal and Newport furniture. He was known for his eye and the striking arrangement of the collection in his apartment. In the late 1980's, Mr. Gill also began collecting Chinese porcelain.
        In the 1970's, the United States Government bought two pieces from his collection, a small painting of the White House under construction and a late Federal card table, which are still displayed in the White House.
        Last year Mr. Gill endowed a research fellow scholarship at the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum in Delaware.
        Mr. Gill's first wife, Caroline Townsend Chapman Gill, died in 1984. He is survived by his wife, Melanie; a son from his first marriage, Peter Gill of Bronxville, N.Y.,  a stepson, Jack Chapman of Fort Pierce, Fla.; two sisters, Barbara Betts of West Hampton Beach, N.Y., and Mary Roby of Rochester, and five grandchildren.
      