
        Col. Gaston de Bonneval, a French Resistance fighter who spent two decades as Charles de Gaulle's right hand, left hand and half-a-step-behind man, died on Oct. 2 at his home in St.-Mande, France. He was 86.
        It is not known exactly what prompted de Gaulle, then head of the Provisional French Government, to select Colonel Bonneval as his aide-de-camp in October 1945, especially since as the head of the Free French Government in exile in World War II de Gaulle had many loyal French soldiers to choose from.
        Certainly Colonel Bonneval's own wartime record recommended him.
        A career soldier who received his training at the St.-Cyr military academy and served in the Foreign Legion, Colonel Bonneval joined the Resistance soon after the formation of the collaborationist Vichy Government in 1940. Captured in 1943, he was confined to the Mauthausen concentration camp in Germany until it was liberated by the United States  Army in 1945.
        Like de Gaulle and his wife, Yvonne, Colonel Bonneval and his wife, also called Yvonne, were members of the petty provincial nobility and shared a common outlook. The two couples were so comfortable with each other that the Bonnevals were frequent house guests at de Gaulle's country estate at Colombey-des-Deux-Eglises. And at a time when Colonel Bonneval was famous for being de Gaulle's only traveling companion in trips between Colombey and Paris, their wives would remain in Colombey.
        Throughout the tumult of postwar France, through de Gaulle's self-imposed exile from government and his triumphant return as President of the Fifth Republic that he created in 1958, Colonel Bonneval was a constant in de Gaulle's public and private life.
        While it is assumed that Colonel Bonneval played no part in formulating policy and served only as an administrative factotum, he spent so much time alone with de Gaulle no one could be sure just what they talked about or just what role the colonel played as the man who always had de Gaulle's ear.
        And Colonel Bonneval would be the last to tell. A man of fastidious discretion, he might sometimes share with a close friend some witticism de Gaulle had uttered in private, but he resolutely refused to write his memoirs and seemed content to let de Gaulle's official record speak for itself.
        As a result, it is only recently that historians have concluded that in the fateful days of May 1958, when France seemed to be on the verge of civil war over the revolt in Algiers and other pressures, Colonel Bonneval played a major role in conducting the negotiations between de Gaulle and President Rene Coty that led to the formation of the Fifth Republic.
        The negotiations would no doubt have been easier if President Coty and de Gaulle had met face to face, but since neither would risk a loss of dignity by calling on the other, it was left to Colonel Bonneval to fill the vacuum.
        After his retirement in December 1964, attributed to medical problems stemming from his days as a concentration camp prisoner, Colonel Bonneval, who had six sons and two daughters to support, tried his hand raising bison and later calves on the lands remaining in family hands around their chateau at Thaumiers.
        The distracting noise from jets at a nearby military base breaking the sound barrier played havoc with his ranching venture, but Colonel Bonneval fared somewhat better in politics. The man who had helped form the Fifth Republic was elected Mayor of Thaumiers and served as a regional commissioner.
      