
        Reinaldo Antonio Ferrer, a former medical educator and administrator who, as New York City's Health Commissioner, was one of the highest-ranking Hispanic officials in the Koch administration, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Altamonte Springs, Fla. He was 82.
        He had suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Ferrer was associated with Beth Israel Medical Center and Mount Sinai School of Medicine when Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed him Commissioner of the Department of Health in March 1978. He retired in October 1981, citing the failing health of his wife, Katherine Cook Ferrer, who died in 1989.
        Dr. Ferrer dealt with oil spills and beach closings in Queens, reports of typhoid fever in Brooklyn and ''dirty restaurant'' lists. He kept tabs on neighborhood rat campaigns, animal bites, venereal diseases, outbreaks of influenza and tuberculosis, and infant mortality rates. Among his more agreeable duties was the annual tabulation of the most popular names given to infants born in the city.
        During his tenure as Commissioner he was a central figure in Mr. Koch's dismissal of Dr. Michael M. Baden as the city's interim Chief Medical Examiner in 1979. The Mayor acted on the strength of reports from Dr. Ferrer and the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, that faulted Dr. Baden's official conduct in a controversy that roiled the city's politics and medical profession for years.
        Dr. Ferrer also played a leading part in the painstaking medical detective work to ferret out causes of Legionnaires' disease as it cropped up around the country in the late 1970's. With the help of the Epidemic Intelligence Service of the Federal Centers for Disease Control, his department pinpointed a midtown air-conditioning tower as the source of scores of suspected cases in the city.
        At the end of his tenure, Mr. Koch gave him high marks for his loyalty in having withstood the public outcry over the administration's decision to close Sydenham Hospital in Harlem.
        Reinaldo Ferrer was born in Lajas in coastal southwestern Puerto Rico. He graduated from Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., in 1941, and St. Louis University School of Medicine in 1945, and received a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1962.
        He held hospital and university appointments in Puerto Rico, where he was also Deputy Secretary of Health in the 1950's, and in Washington before he became associated with Gouverneur Hospital and Beth Israel Medical Center in 1969. At the time of his mayoral appointment, he was associate director for professional and academic affairs at Beth Israel and associate clinical professor of community medicine at Mount Sinai.
        He later returned to Puerto Rico and retired in 1994, for reasons of health, as health commissioner of the national Job Corps in the Commonwealth. He moved to Altamonte Springs, Fla., in 1996.
        Dr. Ferrer's survivors include his second wife, Elba Rivera Ferrer; two daughters, Virginia M. Glassburg of Hanover, N.H., and Kathy Jordan of Manahawkin, N.J.; two sons, Charles, of Melbourne, Fla., and Ray Jr. of West Palm Beach, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      