
        Cleveland Amory, social historian, novelist, television critic and animal rights advocate, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        Although he was the author of a number of best-selling books -- a trilogy of social history studies and, more recently, three popular books about his cat, named Polar Bear, the welfare of animals was Mr. Amory's primary concern for some years.
        In 1967, he founded The Fund for Animals, an organization committed to fighting the exploitation of wildlife and abuse of domestic animals. He often said that if everyone thought about what it would be like to be in an animal's place, there might be more compassion in the world.
        Mr. Amory was the Fund's unpaid president and its guiding spirit. In the 1950's and 60's, before its founding, he was on the board of numerous other animal welfare societies. At present the fund has 81,000 members, all in the United States. Its headquarters is at 200 W. 57th Street in Manhattan.
        In 1988, he told an interviewer that he had once had an argument with a priest about the Catholic Church's teaching at the time that animals had no souls.
        ''I told the good Father that if he and I were going in the future to some wonderful Elysian Field and the animals were not going to go anywhere, that was all the more reason to give them a little better shake in the one life they did have,'' he said.
        He was instrumental in the Fund's purchase, in 1979, of Black Beauty Ranch, 90 miles southeast of Dallas. The 1,150-acre ranch provides a sanctuary for unwanted and abused domestic and exotic animals, many not only from private owners but from zoos and circuses. The ranch is currently home to more than 600 animals, including carriage, mounted police and racetrack horses, dogs, cats, elands, bobcats, white wolves, ostriches, iguanas and llamas.
        One of the Fund's best-known actions took place in 1978 as a protest against the clubbing of baby harp seals in the Magdalene Islands in Canada. Fund workers obtained a trawler, converted it to an icebreaker, and cut through ice for five days to reach the seals, which were then painted with a red organic dye, harmless to the animals but which made their coats worthless. Clubbing of the seals was halted in 1983, owing partly to the Fund's efforts.
        Another of the Fund's highly publicized activities was the rescue of some 575 burros that the Grand Canyon National Park Service planned to eliminate, claiming they were destroying the flora. Helicopters airlifted the burros out of the canyon.
        Mr. Amory often said that an experience he had as a young newspaper reporter in Arizona led to his interest in animal welfare. He was assigned to cover a bullfight on the Mexican border and was sickened both by the scene and by the winner's cutting off the bull's ears. He picked up a cushion and threw it at the bullfighter who fell to the ground. He never returned to the paper.
        Mr. Amory, known to family and friends as Clip or Clippie in his youth, was born on Sept. 2, 1917 in the resort town of Nahant, Mass., and grew up in Boston. His parents, Robert Amory, a textile manufacturer, and Leonore Cobb Amory, and the Amory family, had long been identified with Boston society. He attended Milton Academy and Harvard College and in his senior year was president of the Harvard Crimson. After graduation in 1939 and a brief career as a newspaper reporter, he became the youngest editor at The Saturday Evening Post.
        During World War II, Mr. Amory served in Army Intelligence. At the conclusion of hostilities he began writing the social history books that poked gentle fun at society's pretentiousness. ''The Proper Bostonians'' was published in 1947 (Parnassus Imprints).
        In the book, Mr. Amory, being a proper Bostonian himself, recounted many old stories and some newer ones about Proper Boston, and he described numerous old-time personalities and some modern ones. His account was studded with anecdotes and with resonant Boston names, like Adams, Cabot, Appleton and Collidge. And he won particular praise for some chapters about the Boston matron and what she thought about the arts and about ''culture.''
        ''The Last Resorts'' (1952, Greenwood Publishing), about upper-crust Americans' recreation sites, led a reviewer in The New York Times to opine that ''Amory has the great gift of being able to enjoy the daffinesses and the grotesqueries of this class of Americans,'' but ''without manifesting any socially conscious anger.''
        In that work, the author took the view that American high society showed itself most clearly and typically in its best-loved seasonal resorts. He also added to his reputation as a skillful historian of American society, one blessed with a gracious style and wit. The resorts he wrote agout ranged from Tuxedo Park, N.Y., to Newport, R.I., to Hobe Sound, Fla.
        And after ''Who Killed Society'' -- about that stratum's rise and decline -- appeared in 1960, a reviewer in the Saturday Review of Literature offered a mixed verdict, writing that the work offered ''moments of admirable scholarship, flashes of gleeful wit, and a number of startling instances of downright sensationalism.''
        When the book came out it was praised as his third and most coprehensive contribution to Americana.  The work was vast -- 599 pags -- talkative, and discursive. And in the writing of it he interviewed dozens of elderly dowagers, numbers of society editors and throngs of people -- male and famale -- who counted as ''socially prominent.'' As to the question, Who killed society? he concluded that no one did, and that no specific development was to blame. He took the view that society was perennially evolving, and that at the time he wrote the book, it was at an especially low level, with its morality and its courtesy not as good as in the past.
        Another book of his, which is still widely quoted in animal-welfare circles, is ''Man Kind?: Our Incredible War on Wildlife'' (1974). A reviewer wrote of it in The Christian Science Monitor: ''The reader will not like what he reads; he may shake with pity, anger, yes even with wrath. Yet assuredly, he will read on, so absorbing are the incidents Cleveland Amory describes in a straight-forward although often rightly angry vein.''
        The trio of cat books began with Mr. Amory's rescue of a bone-thin, dirty and wet cat on Christmas Eve. He named the cat Polar Bear and its antics and their relationship were the inspiration for ''The Cat Who Came for Christmas'' (1988, Little, Brown), which sold more than 1.5 million copies; ''The Cat and the Curmudgeon'' (1990, Little, Brown) and ''The Best Cat Ever'' (1993, Little, Brown).
        Mr. Amory's last book, ''Ranch of Dreams,'' about Black Beauty Ranch, was published last fall by Penguin; a paperback edition is to be published, also by Penguin, next month.
        Mr. Amory often referred to himself as a curmudgeon and apparently took great delight in being referred to as one. A commanding presence, tall, usually rumpled and with hair that looked as though it had been styled with an eggbeater, he explained that Boston was a fertile breeding ground for curmudgeons. He became one, he confessed in a 1990 interview in The Portland Oregonian, because ''it suddenly dawned on me one day, when I was reading in the paper about a woman wrestler, that being a curmudgeon was the last thing in the world that a man can be that a woman cannot be. Women can be irritating -- after all, they are women -- but they cannot be curmudgeons.''
        Mr. Amory was a social commentator on NBC's ''Today'' show for 11 years, a guest stint that ended in 1963. That same year he became chief critic for TV Guide, a position he held until 1976. (One of his less memorable efforts was ''O.K. Crackerby,'' a situation comedy created with Abe Burrows, that ran for less than four months in 1965-66). He was also a columnist for The Saturday Review and for some time broadcast a daily radio essay on ''Curmudgeon at Large.'' He was a senior contributing editor of Parade Magazine from 1980 until his death.
        Mr. Amory is survived by a stepdaughter, Dr. Gaea Leinhardt of Pittsburgh; a step-granddaughter; and a sister, Leonore Sawyers of Claremont, Calif.
        He is to be buried next to Polar Bear, who is sometimes called the most famous cat in the world, at Black Beauty Ranch. Polar Bear's grave is marked by a monument made of rough-hewn Texas stone. On it is a plaque bearing words composed by Mr. Amory: ''Here lies beloved Polar Bear, the cat who came for Christmas. 1977 to 1992. 'Til we meet again.''
      