
        Gene Autry, America's first singing cowboy of the movies and a multimillionaire businessman, died yesterday at his home in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles, said Karla Buhlman, vice president of Gene Autry Entertainment. He was 91.
        With his theme song, ''Back in the Saddle Again,'' and riding his chestnut stallion, Champion, Mr. Autry began his climb to fame in the mid-1930's. Although he later owned hotels, broadcasting stations, oil wells and a baseball team, he did not give up performing in films, on radio and television or in his own rodeo until 1964.
        Roy Rogers, his arch rival, died just three months ago.
        Mr. Autry's biggest recording hit, ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,'' released in 1949, remains a children's Christmas favorite. It has sold an estimated 15 million copies and is the second best-selling single in history, runner-up to Bing Crosby's ''White Christmas.''
        He was also a prolific songwriter, turning out some 300 tunes, including ''Here Comes Santa Claus.'' ''That Silver-Haired Daddy of Mine,'' another original, was his first recording, a hit that sold more than a million copies in less than a year.
        Mr. Autry's career as a businessman went back to his movie days  when he began making money franchising his name and face for sweatshirts, jeans, belts, suspenders, gloves, lassos and souvenirs. By 1940, Gene Autry cap pistols dominated the toy gun industry.
        But it was not until 1948, when he bought a radio station in Phoenix, that he laid the cornerstone of a financial empire that included 10 radio stations and a Los Angeles television station, a flying school, a music-publishing company, a 20,000-acre cattle ranch in Arizona and ownership of the California Angels baseball team in 1961.
        In addition, Mr. Autry owned the Gene Autry Hotel in Palm Springs, Calif., and controlled corporations that at times operated a half-dozen other hotels, including the St. Francis in San Francisco. He was also a partner in many Oklahoma and Texas oil well operations.
        Mr. Autry, who continued to wear Western boots and clothes long after his retirement from show business, came by his cowboy image honestly.
        Orvon Gene Autry was born on  Sept. 29, 1907, on a small cattle and grain farm in Tioga, Tex. He was the son of a cattle buyer, tenant farmer and nondenominational itinerant preacher. The boy's mother died when he was 4 years old, not long after the family had moved to Ravia, Okla., where he learned to ride horses and play the guitar and sing at his father's church services.
        At the age of 16 he went to work as a baggage handler at the Ravia railroad depot, where he learned telegraphy from the station master. He  became a vacation relief telegrapher for the Frisco Railroad at stops from St. Louis to southern Oklahoma, an experience he said was to ''change my life forever.''
        One night in Chelsea, Okla., when he was 17, he said, ''This farmer-looking guy, with glasses on the tip of his nose, came into the office and gave me some pages to send.''
        ''Then he spotted the guitar,'' Mr. Autry said. '' 'You play that?' he asked. 'Like to hear you.' ''
        The man Mr. Autry had dutifully played for turned out to be Will Rogers, and he told the young man that he had a future on the radio.
        Thus encouraged, in 1927 Mr. Autry used his railroad pass to visit New York, where he spent a month knocking on the doors of radio stations and record companies. He was advised to get radio experience elsewhere, and shortly afterward got a job as Oklahoma's Yodeling Cowboy  on station KVOO in Tulsa.
        Mr. Autry returned to New York in 1928 to record ''Silver-Haired Daddy,'' written with Jimmy Long, a fellow railroad worker. The success of the recording won Mr. Autry a Columbia Records contract and a weekly role on the popular National Barn Dance radio show broadcast from Chicago. Mr. Autry married Mr. Long's niece Ina Mae Spivey in 1932.
        The Autrys moved to Hollywood in 1934. He was given a small role in a Ken Maynard western, ''In Old Santa Fe,'' and sang only one song, but the idea of a singing cowboy hero caught on with producers at Republic Pictures, which specialized in low-budget westerns and serials.
        In 1935 Mr. Autry, beginning with ''Tumbling Tumbleweeds,'' his first starring role, made eight hourlong movies for the Saturday afternoon ''kiddie trade.'' In the years to come he appeared in dozens more, and he became the only western star to be listed by movie theater owners as among the top 10 money makers in the Hollywood films of 1938 to 1942.
        In such movies as ''Boots and Saddles,'' ''South of the Border,'' ''Melody Ranch'' and ''Down Mexico Way,'' Mr. Autry was a no-nonsense hero in stories that conformed to his own cowboy's code: ''The hero must not take unfair advantage of anyone, including the bad guys. He must not hit anybody smaller than himself. He must always keep his word. He must not smoke or drink in public, and he must not kiss the girl.''
        His well-trained Tennessee walking horse, Champion, which figured prominently in most Autry movies, had its own stand-in. The famous horse was replaced through the years with two others from the same strain from the same breeder near Nashville. In movies and the traveling Autry rodeo show, Champion was billed as the ''World's Wonder Horse.'' Smiley Burnett was popular as Mr. Autry's comic sidekick.
        Mr. Autry, whose songs, performed in a pleasant tenor voice, irked some of his younger viewers who preferred nonstop action, had millions of female fans who wrote  5,000 letters a week to him. But he was modest about his talents, telling an interviewer in 1980: ''I honestly never considered myself an actor. An actor would be someone like Paul Muni or Spencer Tracy. I was more of a personality.''
        By 1942, when he enlisted in the Army Air Forces, Mr. Autry was grossing more than $600,000 a year from movies, records, a weekly radio show and personal appearances. Having learned to fly years earlier,  he spent the war ferrying cargo in the Far East and was discharged in 1945. The only concession the Air  Forces made to Sergeant Autry's fame was to allow him to wear his cowboy boots with his uniform.
        During his wartime absence, Republic Pictures had promoted Roy  Rogers as King of the Cowboys, so Mr. Autry did not return to his old studio, preferring to form his own Flying A Productions as a unit at Columbia Pictures. After the war, he took on a new partner, Pat Buttram, as well.
        Flying A made his movies from then on. In the 1950's it filmed 91 half-hour episodes of ''The Gene Autry Show'' for CBS and won a new generation of American youngsters. The highly lucrative Autry company also produced ''Annie Oakley,'' ''Death Valley Days'' and other television series.
        Mr. Autry credited his wife with  prompting him to make one of his shrewdest decisions. He had received a catchy song in the mail in 1949 but was reluctant to record it. Mrs. Autry, however, told her husband: ''It reminds me of 'The Ugly Duckling.' Kids will love it.''
        At a recording session in Los Angeles, he suddenly decided to include  the song, ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,'' and performed it in a single take. His personal earnings from that single recording came to more than $1 million.
        Ina Mae Autry died in 1980, and the next year he married Jacqueline Ellam, a vice president of a bank in Cathedral City, Calif., near Palm Springs, where Mr. Autry had a home. She and Mr. Autry's sister,  Veda, and several nieces and nephews survive.
        If Mr. Autry was shrewd in his entertainment career, he had a Midas touch in business. In 1982, for example, he sold television station KTLA in Los Angeles for $245 million. Even while still playing Madison Square Garden in New York and other cities with his own rodeo shows, he was making deals for oil wells, hotels, radio and television stations and other properties. He was on the telephone constantly, keeping in touch with his far-flung interests, but he was admired for his ability to delegate authority.
        As owner of the California Angels,  now the Anaheim Angels, Mr. Autry, who had been a baseball fan since childhood, was fiercely competitive. He spent lavishly, offering multi-million-dollar contracts to attract star players to his team. In 1979 his costly lineup of stars won Mr. Autry and the Angels their first divisional championship. Known affectionately as the Cowboy in baseball circles, Mr. Autry was one of the most popular owners among players on his own and other teams.
        In 1995, Mr. Autry announced that the Walt Disney Company was buying a part interest in the team, and the next year Disney took operating control. Recent baseball seasons ended as all seasons have ended for the Angels, with Mr. Autry awaiting the team's first World Series appearance. Disney had an agreement to acquire Mr. Autry's remaining share of the team at his death.
        Mr. Autry was a longtime collector of Western memorabilia and art, and in December 1988, the Autry Museum of Western Heritage, built largely with funds from Mr. Autry's foundations, opened in Griffith Park  in Los Angeles. Among the items in the $54 million museum are an 1870's-era steam fire engine from Nevada, guns owned by Annie Oakley and Wyatt Earp and costumes of  the Lone Ranger and Tonto.
        ''I felt that I owed something,'' Mr. Autry said. ''The West has been very kind to me over the years.''
        Correction:  October 7, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary of Gene Autry on Saturday misstated the history of singing cowboys in the movies. He was not the first; Ken Maynard was, singing in the 1929 western ''The Wagon Master.'' Mr. Autry first sang in Maynard's 1934 film ''In Old Santa Fe.''
      