
        Adolf Althoff, a courageous German circus executive who saved several people in the Nazi era by having them work and travel with his circus, died in his sleep on Wednesday in a hospital in Stolberg near Aachen. He was 85 and lived in Stolberg.
        The cause was probably heart failure, said the German news agency DPA. He had been hospitalized after a fall at home.
        A member of a 300-year-old circus family, Mr. Althoff figures in a book about Germans who saved Jews from the Holocaust, ''Other Germans Under Hitler'' by Herbert Straeten, published last year in Germany. In the book Mr. Althoff is quoted as saying, ''Circus people don't ask if you are Christian, Jewish or heathen.''
        When the book was published Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel of Germany said: ''It is incredible how many simple people -- farmers, people in the circus -- tried to help. But it was a minority who had the courage to resist. Most Germans did not.''
        Mr. Althoff, who warned people who traveled with him when the Gestapo came to check the circus with the phrase, ''Go fishing,'' once said in an interview, ''In a circus you can do a lot and keep it secret.''
        His bravery earned a high Israeli honor in 1995 from the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Israel. It also won him an award in 1994 from a German organization, the Stuttgart Circus-Friends, which called him a descendant of one of the oldest and greatest circus families in Germany.
        He was born into the family in Sonsbeck near Dusseldorf, while his parents' circus was on tour. At 17 he became publicity director of the circus.
        Mr. Althoff and his sister formed their own circus while he was in his 20's, and he was its ringmaster for 30 years.
        He was also, as one circus colleague put it after his death, ''a fantastic animal trainer and animal psychologist.'' He even managed to ride tigers. ''His operation was regarded as a model circus because of its discipline and the beauty of its numbers,'' DPA said. His career took him around Europe and to North Africa and the United States.
        In 1940, Mr. Althoff began five years' of concealing the four members of the Bento performing family in his circus. By some accounts the  husband, Peter Bento, and his wife, Irene, were Jewish. Peter worked as a clown and Irene as a trick rider. Other accounts suggest that the husband was not Jewish. Their two children were reported to be still performing in Germany 40 years after the war, much in demand as clowns.
        Mr. Althoff is said to have provided the the Bentos false identity papers and letting family members perform under pseudonyms. The German newspaper Die Welt said on Friday: ''In every city Gestapo officials came to check the circus. Because Althoff had friends in almost every city he was mostly informed a bit ahead of time about the 'visit.' Then he knocked on the widow of the Bentos' large covered wagon and gave the cue for them to disappear: 'Go Fishing.' ''
        Years later heart trouble and diabetes forced Mr. Althoff to cut back his activities. In 1965 he sold his circus at the time, the Frederike Hagenbeck circus, and founded a ''safari park'' near Aachen.
        When his son, Franz, founded the Williams Althoff circus in 1977, Adolf Althoff went on tour with it. When he was 70 a tiger performing with him  bit his hand. He had the wound bandaged quickly and kept performing.
        Surviving are his wife, Maria, and son.
      