
        John O. Van Koert, a prominent New York designer who helped promote the fascination with Danish modern furnishings in the 1950's, died last Sunday in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 86.
        The cause was a stroke, said a friend, Edith Siroto.
        Mr. Van Koert designed silverware and furniture that helped to introduce modernist shapes. Born in Manitoba, Canada, he later moved to Milwaukee, where he studied at the University of Wisconsin to be a painter and sculptor and taught design in the art department. After World War II, he settled in New York as a jewelry designer for Harry Winston and branched out into industrial design.
        His flatware designs in silver for Towle were well known in the 50's. One of them, ''Contour,'' a sleek Miro-like design, was chosen to represent modernism in ''Knife, Fork and Spoon,'' a 1951 traveling exhibition on the history of eating implements organized by the Walter Art  Center of Minneapolis.
        In 1954, he was exhibition director of ''Design in Scandinavia,'' a show that traveled for three years, to venues including the Brooklyn Museum of Art; it helped introduce Scandinavian modern design to Americans.
        Mr. Van Koert's furniture designs for Drexel, a North Carolina manufacturer, were presented in model rooms in department stores like Abraham & Straus, Macy's and Bloomingdale's. A 1956 installation of walnut furniture with rounded edges, silver-finished hardware and chartreuse upholstery was shown against purple, silver and electric-blue walls.
        Mr. Van Koert was an early advocate of the built-in furniture popular in the 1950's with modernist architects and designers. Predicting a time when people would treat furniture like kitchen cabinetry, he said in an interview in 1958: ''We shouldn't have to move our furniture when we move. After all, you can't get sentimentally attached to a $200 chair.''
        In 1974, he started working for Serried Ltd., a North Carolina furniture manufacturer, where he designed traditional home furnishings for 20 years. Mr. Van Koert, who left no survivors, moved to Santa Fe in 1993.
      