
        Dr. Harold C. Neu, an expert on treating infectious diseases who warned early on of the growing bacterial resistance to antibiotics, died Sunday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63.
        The cause was a brain tumor, which had been diagnosed in 1993, his family said.
        As chief of the division of infectious diseases at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons for more than two decades, Dr. Neu was ''the person in the world who could provide an evaluation of the potential clinical activity'' of a new antibiotic, said Dr. Paul Ellner, a longtime collaborator.
        Pharmaceutical companies relied so heavily on Dr. Neu's laboratory work and his reasoned, straightforward appraisals that he was involved in ''every anti-infective used in the United States today,'' said Dr. C. Douglas Webb, director of anti-infection drugs for Pfizer Pharmaceuticals.
        In his laboratory, Dr. Neu researched how drugs worked in the test tube. But he was also a skilled clinician who studied how the same compounds worked in people. He drew on a strong background in epidemiology, having served as hospital epidemiologist at what was then Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital for many years.
        With Dr. Ellner, he developed what was called the inhibitory quotient, a method by which doctors could determine how effective a certain antibiotic would be in treating an infection in a specific part of the body. Although it has since been modified, ''that concept is still very valuable today,'' said Dr. Robert C. Moellering Jr., a professor of medical research at Harvard Medical School.
        He was also highly regarded as a teacher and was known for organizing conferences on broad research issues and medicine's role in the world.
        Harold Conrad Neu was born in Omaha, where his father was a department chairman at Creighton University's medical school. He got his undergraduate degree from Creighton and his medical degree from Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. After several years as a research associate with the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Neu came to Columbia as chief medical resident in 1964. He retired because of failing health in 1994.
        Among his areas of research, Dr. Neu studied the mechanisms by which bacteria become resistant to certain antibiotics. He was particularly interested in how some bacteria come to produce an enzyme, beta-lactamase, that breaks down penicillin and similar drugs, making them ineffective.
        ''He was ahead of his time'' in this work on bacterial resistance, said Dr. William T. Speck, president and chief operating officer of what is now New York and Presbyterian Hospital. ''He predicted it, studied it and worked out a mechanism for it.'' It was only when Dr. Neu helped develop drugs to block the penicillin-destroying enzymes, Dr. Speck added, that people began to take him seriously. Drugs that combine antibiotics with enzyme inhibitors are now common.
        The issue of bacterial resistance has now become a major concern of doctors and researchers worldwide.
        ''He was one of many researchers who were very concerned that antibiotics were used in situations that were unnecessary,'' said Dr. Ellner, a professor emeritus of microbiology and pathology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. ''We know now that his concern was well founded.''
        In a 1992 article in the journal Science, ''The Crisis in Antibiotic Resistance,'' Dr. Neu called on the pharmaceutical industry not to promote the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in people or livestock, which creates the conditions for bacteria to develop drug resistance.
        He also addressed the role of doctors. ''The responsibility of reducing resistance,'' he wrote, ''lies with the physician who uses antimicrobial agents and with patients who demand antibiotics when the illness is viral and antibiotics are not indicated.''
        Dr. Neu is survived by his wife, Dr. Carmen Ortiz-Neu; two daughters, Dr. Natalie Neu of New York City and Maria Neu Rorer of Fort Washington, Pa., and a son, Harold, of New York City.
      