
        Arnold M. Auerbach, a comedy writer who wrote for Fred Allen, Milton Berle and Al Jolson and who contributed sketches to the successful Broadway revues ''Call Me Mister'' and ''Inside U.S.A.,'' died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 86.
        Mr. Auerbach got his first taste of show business in 1932, when his script, ''How Revolting,'' was selected for Columbia University's varsity show, which was presented in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria. His collaborator for this production was Herman Wouk.
        During World War II, as a United States Army private first class, he contributed sketches to Frank Loesser's ''About Face,'' a musical comedy staged by the Special Services by, with and for soldiers. It starred Jules Munshin and Vincente Gomez and also became Mickey Rooney's vehicle for entertaining troops in Europe. He also wrote sketches for other Army shows: ''Hi, Yank!,'' with music and lyrics by Loesser and Alex North, and ''PFC Mary Brown,'' a Women's Army Corps revue with Loesser songs.
        Mr. Auerbach's exuberance on returning to civilian life was expressed in his work for the hit 1946 Broadway revue ''Call Me Mister,'' with a score by Harold Rome and winning performances by Betty Garrett and Mr. Munshin. Mr. Auerbach wrote the sketches with Arnold Horwitt.
        Mr. Auerbach and Mr. Horwitt teamed with Moss Hart to write the sketches for another successful Broadway revue, ''Inside U.S.A.'' in 1948. The show starred Beatrice Lillie and Jack Haley and had songs by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz.
        Mr. Auerbach, Mr. Rome and Mr. Munshin were less successful when they put on another Broadway revue, ''Bless You All,'' with Pearl Bailey in 1950. He wrote for Fred Allen's radio show and and Milton Berle's ''Texaco Star Theater'' and also created material for Nat Hiken, who used it in the ''Sergeant Bilko'' television series, starring Phil Silvers.
        Arnold Auerbach was born on May 23, 1912, in Manhattan, the son of Dr. Julian Auerbach, a physician, and the former Olga Offner. He attended the Franklin School and Columbia, where he also received a master's degree in journalism.
        Over the years he contributed satirical essays to The New York Times and other publications. His books include ''Funny Men Don't Laugh'' (1965), an account of his days as a comedy writer for radio, and ''Is that Your Best Offer?'' (1971), a novel.
        He is survived by his wife, Justine; a daughter, Nina Auerbach of Philadelphia, and a son, Andrew of New Haven.
      