
        The Rev. Edward H. Flannery, a Roman Catholic priest and outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Monday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 86 and lived in Georgiaville, near Providence.
        Father Flannery, a longtime Catholic journalist, won acclaim and a National Catholic Book Award for ''The Anguish of the Jews: Twenty-three Centuries of Anti-Semitism'' (1965, Paulist Press). In it he wrote: ''This book received its first impetus from a personal experience. One evening several years ago, I walked in New York City in the company of a young Jewish couple'' and within sight of ''the huge illuminated cross the Grand Central building displays at Christmas. The young lady declared: 'That cross makes me shudder. It is like an evil presence.' ''
        Her comment made him think, he recalled. ''It soon became clear that her fearful reaction was the fruit of a knowledge which she, but not I, had  -- a knowledge of the immense suffering undergone by her people at the hands of Christians for many centuries.''
        So he wrote the book, which Msgr. John M. Oesterreicher of the Institute of Judeo-Christian Studies at Seton Hall University called ''to the best of my knowledge, the first history of anti-Semitism written by a priest.''
        In a 1967 interview, Father Flannery said: ''The anti-Semite, not the Jew, is the real Christ-killer. He thinks he's religious, but that's a self-delusion. Actually he finds religion so heavy a burden, he develops 'Christophobia.' He's hostile to the faith and has an unconscious hatred of Christ, who is for him, Christ the Repressor. He uses anti-Semitism as a safety valve for this hostility and is really trying to strike out at Christ.''
        In that year, Father Flannery began nine years as the first director of Catholic-Jewish relations at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. He was also a professor at the Institute of Judeo-Christian Studies at Seton Hall for some years.
        After Father Flannery died, William H. Cardinal Keeler, Archbishop of Baltimore and the bishops' conference's episcopal moderator for Catholic-Jewish relations, said: ''He was an early and effective pioneer in encouraging Catholics in the United States on how best to implement Nostra Aetate, the Second Vatican Council's charter for fostering positive Catholic-Jewish relationships.''
        Rabbi A. James Rudin, national interreligious affairs director of the American Jewish Committee, called  Father Flannery ''a major force in the development of constructive Catholic-Jewish relations during the past 30 years.'' Father Flannery also served as consultor to the Vatican Secretariat for Catholic-Jewish Relations and president of the National Christian Leadership Conference for Israel.
        He was born in Providence to John Flannery, a police officer, and the former Elizabeth Mulvey. He studied at St. Charles College in Catonsville, St. Sulpice Seminary near Paris, and Catholic University in Washington. He was ordained in 1937 and was in the Diocese of Providence for most of the next three decades, in pastoral and chaplain's posts and on the staff of the diocesan newspaper.
        In 1976 he returned to the diocese, which covers Rhode Island, and was concerned with the continuing education of the diocesan clergy and with Catholic-Jewish relations.
        His other writings include translations of French religious works and essays and articles for a variety of publications.
        Surviving is a sister, Catherine E. Walsh of Warwick, R.I..
      