
        Walter Bishop Jr., a jazz pianist who recorded with Charlie Parker, Miles Davis and others, died on Saturday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his sister, Marian Jeffries.
        Mr. Bishop was raised in lower Harlem; his father, Walter Bishop Sr., was a popular songwriter who was friends with Fats Waller, Eubie Blake and other entertainers. As a teen-ager, Mr. Bishop grew up in a clique of musicians centered on Harlem's Sugar Hill neighborhood, which included the pianist Kenny Drew, the saxophonist Sonny Rollins and the drummer Art Taylor. He dropped out of high school and joined a band that played in Harlem dance halls.
        He spent two years in the Army Air Corps and was back in Manhattan in 1947. He gravitated to Minton's, where the Monday night jam sessions provided opportunities for young Harlem musicians to learn the sophisticated language of be-bop.  The pianist Bud Powell took a powerful hold on his imagination with a terse, punching style of accompaniment behind other musicians and his flowing, tenacious lines over borrowed chord changes. Mr. Bishop's playing would always reflect Powell's influence; later, he would become particularly known for holding back on the beat, a device that added tension to the music.
        He joined the drummer Art Blakey's 17 Messengers, a big band that soon splintered; Mr. Bishop made his first recording, in 1949, with Mr. Blakey's quartet. He also played with the saxophonist Eddie Davis during this period, and recorded with Stan Getz.
        The young Mr. Bishop was eager to play with Parker, and when Parker's steady working quintet disbanded in 1951, Mr. Bishop was one of the musicians he often used until Parker's death in 1955.
        Mr. Bishop weaved in and out of music as a full-time career during the 1950's, making recordings with Miles Davis, Oscar Pettiford and Kai Winding, among others.
        It wasn't until the 1960's that Mr. Bishop started making recordings under his own name. He studied with the composer Hall Overton at Juilliard toward the end of the 1960's, and in the 1980's, he taught at the University of Hartford and became a common presence in New York's jazz clubs and festivals.
        He developed a late interest in writing his memories in verse, and he was known to recite rhyming poems on the bandstand about his lessons and experiences in jazz.
        Mr. Bishop is survived by his wife, Keiko; his mother, Enid Bishop of Manhattan, and two sisters, Ms. Jeffries, of Long Island City, Queens, and Beverly Freeman of West Hempstead, N.Y.
      