
        Francis W. Sargent, the moderate Republican, defender of the environment and solver of fiscal crises who served as Governor of Massachusetts from 1969 to 1975, died today at his home in Dover, Mass. He was 83.
        Mr. Sargent moved up from lieutenant governor when Gov. John Volpe was made Transportation Secretary in the Nixon Administration and  was elected in 1970 over the Mayor of Boston, Kevin White, to a full term.
        Mr. Sargent was also known for his delicately middle-of-the-road approach to Boston's busing strife and helped gain passage of a no-fault car insurance law. He backed public housing, environmental protections and a statute challenging the Vietnam War on legal grounds.
        Mr. Sargent was born in Massachusetts, attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (which led to a favorite motto of his: ''Don't ask me, I didn't go to Harvard.'') and went on to serve in a variety of state and Federal jobs involving fish, game, and other natural resources.
        He lost an election for the state Senate in 1962 but ran successfully in 1966 for lieutenant governor. His  campaign slogan was ''Put Sarge in charge.''
        As Governor, he set a record by signing 1,000 new laws in 1971, and in 1972, he won a battle he called his own Vietnam: he helped defeat a plan for an ''inner belt'' expressway in Boston.
        But in his run for re-election during a sour economic period in 1974 he lost to his Democratic challenger, Michael S. Dukakis, and stayed out of the central fray of politics from then on, though he taught and wrote commentary in his later years.
        During the friction-filled busing period in Boston in the early 1970's, Mr. Sargent responded to the racial tension raised by the integration plan to shuttle black and white children between neighborhoods by proposing a ''freedom of choice'' scheme that would have allowed white children to remain in their neighborhoods while black children were bused to better schools.
        Mr. Sargent was married since 1938 to his wife, Jessie, with whom he had three children, Jessie, Fay and Bill.
        He was decorated for his service as a paratrooper in World War II. Upon his return from the war, he lived on Cape Cod, and, an enthusiastic fisherman, became interested in environmental issues when he saw the effects of overfishing there.
        A profile earlier this month in The Boston Globe described Mr. Sargent as the last of a breed of homegrown Yankee governors that included names like Saltonstall, Peabody and Bradford.
        In person, he has been described as salty and flinty in typical Yankee fashion. His penchant for economizing came in handy when Massachusetts hit a budgetary crisis brought on largely by high welfare costs. In response, Mr. Sargent pushed legislation that altered eligibility requirements for Medicaid and imposed a new tax on special interests and corporations.
        Mr. Sargent suffered from heart trouble, and had recently been sharply restricted in his activities, unable to drive or fish anymore.
        He had open-heart surgery in 1981. But in his interview with The Globe, he sounded as feisty as ever, asking at one point, ''How'd I get to be so old?''
      