
        H. Richard Nesson, the former president of Brigham and Women's Hospital, one of the nation's leading teaching hospitals, and a pioneer in hospital management in the new era of health maintenance organizations, died Oct. 18 in Boston. He was 66.
        Mr. Nesson suffered a heart attack while exercising, said the hospital's current president, Jeffrey Otten. Though retired from Brigham and Women's since 1997, Dr. Nesson remained a high-profile figure in Boston health care until his death. Last week, for example, he announced the creation of a program at a health center to give women without health insurance access to cancer tests.
        A Boston native who came to view health care as a basic right, Dr. Nesson got his bachelor of science degree from Harvard College in 1954 and completed his medical studies at Boston University where he graduated cum laude in 1959. Dr. Nesson, who was a specialist in kidney care, never practiced medicine privately. He taught internal medicine at the Harvard Medical School, but by the early 1980's it had become obvious that his true vocation lay in building and managing an increasingly complex health care system.
        ''He was one of the first people in the country to argue that HMO's might actually provide better care at lower cost,'' Dr. Otten said.
        In 1982, Dr. Nesson became president of Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. Medical research expanded rapidly during Dr. Nesson's 15-year presidency, which saw a nearly twentyfold increase in Federal financing, to $180 million.
        Mr. Nesson presided over the merger of longtime rivals Brigham and Women's and the Massachusetts General Hospital in 1993. The Harvard Community Health Plan, by then the largest managed care organization in the state, sent most of its inpatients there.
        He served in public service posts, including chairman of the Massachusetts Hospital Association, a director of the Massachusetts United Way and chairman of the Harvard Medical Center AIDS Committee.
        Mr. Nesson is survived by his wife, Lois; two children, Ted and Sara; two sisters, Marilyn Mann of Gloucester, Mass., and Lois Cohen of Glencoe, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      