
        THE playwright's fading family photographs hang virtually unnoticed on the walls of the set. In one frame, a black World War II soldier grins beneath a rakishly tilted cap. In another, a shy young woman glimmers in a gown that sweeps her toes. They are his parents, long buried, their era long gone.
        But when the stage lights dim, their lost world springs to life. Suddenly, it is 1943 in Harlem, with Ella Fitzgerald crooning, newly arrived Southerners gawking and housekeepers calling to Jesus in storefront churches and lindy-hopping until dawn at the Savoy Ballroom.
        The playwright John Henry Redwood recreates those heady days in ''The Old Settler,'' a bittersweet comedy in previews Off Broadway at Primary Stages, where it opens on Wednesday. It is the story of Elizabeth Borny, a lonely, middle-aged domestic who rents a room in her apartment to a naive young Southerner and falls in love with him, despite the disapproval of her sister, Quilly, who knows better.
        In bringing this slice of black America to a New York stage, Mr. Redwood has woven a tale from the lives of his relatives who migrated from North Carolina to New York, scrubbed floors on Long Island and partied in Harlem during the 1940's. The play, directed by Harold Scott and starring the actress and singer Leslie Uggams as Elizabeth, has won praise in different productions at regional theaters.
        The sisters, Elizabeth and Quilly (portrayed by Lynda Gravatt), are loosely modeled on Mr. Redwood's mother and aunt, who bickered and quarreled in foot-stomping battles and loved each other fiercely until they died. As a boy growing up in Brooklyn, Mr. Redwood absorbed their stories, their love of collard greens and Big Band sounds, and their reverence for a time when young men tipped their hats to young women, and when saying ''shoot'' was the closest one came to swearing in polite company.
        Mr. Redwood eventually left home to satisfy a variety of curiosities. Entranced by John Wayne's performance in the movie ''Sands of Iwo Jima,'' he joined the Marines for three years. He earned master's degrees in history and religion. He even tinkered with computers on Wall Street before becoming an actor (appearing in the Broadway production of ''The Piano Lesson'' by August Wilson) and writing plays. (''Got four full-length plays produced,'' Mr. Redwood said, laughing, ''and 150 in the drawer.'')
        His mother was dead by the time he completed ''The Old Settler'' in 1994, and so were his father, his grandmother and many of the old-timers. But their voices and their music lingered in his memory and echoed in his work.
        ''Sa-tan, we're gonna tear your kingdom do-own,'' sang Mr. Redwood softly, as he perched on the stage during a recent rehearsal, his baritone rumbling through the words of an old spiritual sung by his mother's church choir. ''Whoa-ho, Sa-tan, we're gonna tear your kingdom down . . .''
        ''Those are the voices I heard growing up,'' said the author, who appears to be in his 50's but declined to divulge his age, saying that as an actor he does not want to be typecast in age-specific roles. ''Nineteen forty-three was my parents' period,'' he continued, ''when they were young, when it was more the norm to be respectful to women, more the norm to look out for one another. And when they went out, they would come up to Harlem, even though they lived in Brooklyn.''
        Mr. Redwood, who had small roles in the films ''Mr. Holland's Opus'' and ''Passion Fish,'' said he started writing out of frustration. The world he knew so well rarely appeared in plays, movies or on television. Where were the solid, working-class black families supported by men like his father, a mechanic and World War II veteran?, he asked. Where were the characters like his mother and aunt, the spunky, religious women who inspired his love for the Bible and his (brief) yearning to become a Baptist preacher?
        ''All of us don't walk around screaming and cursing and cutting and solving our problems with knives or guns, but that's what you see,'' said Mr. Redwood, who has three grown children and a daughter in high school.
        He started dabbling in the theater after falling for an aspiring actress in an era he calls ''pre-August Wilson.'' So he began scribbling on the road while performing in regional theaters, writing ''Mark VIII,'' a play about two mothers, one white, one black, whose babies are swapped in a hospital; ''A Sunbeam,'' about a mother's tortured love for her retarded son, and ''Acted Within Proper Departmental Procedure,'' which chronicles a black police officer's struggle to balance her work and personal life.
        In 1995, ''The Old Settler'' caught the attention of Lloyd Richards, the veteran director who has brought a number of Mr. Wilson's plays to Broadway and who was then running the National Playwrights Conference, the prestigious summer workshop at the Eugene O'Neill Theater in Waterford, Conn. At the time, Mr. Richards, who had cast Mr. Redwood in ''The Piano Lesson,'' knew him only as a ''very solid actor.'' But after thumbing through nearly 1,500 manuscripts to select the 15 plays to be given staged readings that summer, Mr. Richards was captivated, he said, by the authentic, lyrical language of the characters in ''The Old Settler.'' (The title, from a pejorative Harlem term for a woman of a certain age who has never married, is used against Elizabeth by her rival, Lou Bessie, portrayed by Rosalyn Coleman.)
        In the play, young domestics are said to dance their feet sore at the weekly ''Kitchen Mechanics' Night'' at the Savoy Ballroom, the one night they can dance free of charge. Quilly loves ''swamp seeds'' (rice) and ''pot liquor'' (the savory liquid left over after stewing collard greens and salt pork). And when Elizabeth rebukes her young suitor (Godfrey L. Simmons Jr.) for buying an outrageous suit, Quilly snaps at the dumbfounded boarder, ''Ain't no use you standing looking like Uncle Ben before he started cooking rice.''
        ''John is a writer with a wonderful ear,'' said Mr. Richards, who put on ''The Old Settler'' that summer of 1995 and arranged to have it produced the next year in Russia as part of an exchange program with the O'Neill. ''There are rhythms, music to the play, to the language,'' he said.
        Writing about an earlier production in The New York Times last year, Peter Marks praised the play's ''heartwarming'' and ''ruefully funny'' story, as it was presented at the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J., in a co-production with the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven. But he said that the ''tried and true'' formula resulted in a somewhat predictable plot.
        Emily Mann, the artistic director at the McCarter, said theatergoers, both black and white, had responded effusively. ''It's a love story that's so dear and so sweet and so moving,'' Ms. Mann said.
        Accustomed to the twists and turns of an unconventional career, Mr. Redwood seems to shrug off both praise and criticism. On the night of the play's first preview at Primary Stages, he wore blue jeans and a baseball cap and had a matter-of-fact manner. When asked whether he was excited to see the New York production finally coming together, he announced unexpectedly that ''The Old Settler'' was never his best play.
        ''Not that there's anything wrong with it,'' said Mr. Redwood, who stands 6 feet 3 in his blue Converse All-Stars. It's just that ''A Sunbeam'' is his favorite.
        NEVERTHELESS, he has worked hard to get ''The Old Settler'' produced, ''and produced properly,'' in regional theaters. He leaves scolding telephone messages for directors who use upbeat tempos for gospel songs meant to be melancholy. When a casting director told him there was no way to get Ms. Uggams to play the lead role in New York, Mr. Redwood took matters into his own hands.
        Describing how she met the playwright at a reading in Manhattan, Ms. Uggams recalled: ''All of a sudden, I hear this big, deep voice saying, 'I've been looking for you.' I turn around and there's this man standing there. I hadn't heard of him, but he's going on and on about this play.
        ''He says, 'I just so happen to have it with me,' and whips it out of his bag. It seemed so bizarre.''
        But she took the manuscript home that night and by 10 o'clock the next morning was calling Mr. Redwood at his home in East Orange, N.J.
        ''I just loved the play immediately,'' said the actress, who grew up in Washington Heights in northern Manhattan and had relatives who lived in Harlem.
        She said the characters felt like old familiar friends and the story captured the flavor of a period when North and South were colliding as the Great Migration swept thousands of blacks from Southern farms to Northern factories.
        ''I said, 'I've got to be a part of this,' '' Ms. Uggams remembered. ''It's one of our stories, and that's so rare to find.''
        THEATER
      