
        Willy A. Fiedler, a German-born aerospace expert who was active in Nazi Germany's V-1 ramjet-powered missile program and helped design American submarine-launched missiles like the Polaris after the war, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Fiedler worked from 1956 to 1973 in Sunnyvale, Calif., in what became the Missiles and Space Division of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, which has become the Lockheed Martin Corporation.
        Mr. Fiedler was born in Freudenstadt, Germany, 40 miles southwest of Stuttgart, where he went on to study engineering and aeronautical engineering.
        According to a sketch by Jeffery Adams, a spokesman for the Missiles and Space Division, Mr. Fiedler became a test pilot in Germany and played a leading role in the development of the V-1. From 1942 to 1944 at Peenemunde on the Baltic Sea coast of Germany, he helped test the missile, which was used in World War II.
        Thousands of V-1's were fired from sites in France at London and other targets in England for some months beginning in mid-1944, causing tens of thousands of casualties, despite British countermeasures. Frederick I. Ordway 3d, an aerospace expert, said, ''The V-1 was fired in far greater quantities than the much more famous V-2 rocket and caused many more Allied casualties.''
        In 1948, Mr. Fiedler moved to the United States to work on missile development projects at the United States Naval Missile Test Center in Point Mugu, Calif. These included early work by the Navy on a propelled missile, known as the Loon, to be launched from a submarine.
        In 1956, he was hired by Lockheed for what became the Missiles and Space Division. There he worked on the development of the Navy's Polaris ballistic missile.
        Mr. Fiedler was particularly active in the problem of launching ballistic missiles from submerged submarines, Mr. Adams said. He worked on a major problem with the missiles: how to aim them so they would still be pointing skyward when they reached the water's surface, on the way toward their targets.
        Mr. Fiedler retired from Lockheed in 1973.
        His wife of six decades, the former Greta Lange, died almost five years ago. He is survived by his second wife, the former Monica Wagner; his daughters, Karen Marquardt of Kerala, India, and San Jose, Calif., Petra Motz of Munich, and Monika Rohrbach of Erlangen, Germany; three grandchildren, and two sisters.
      