
        Fred W. O'Green, who led Litton Industries in the 1970's and 1980's, first as president and then as chairman, died on Oct. 2 as a result of complications from Alzheimer's Disease at the St. John of God retirement and care center in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old and had lived in Los Angeles for more than 30 years..
        Mr. O'Green refocused Litton -- a takeover star of the 1960's and a Wall Street disappointment in the early 1970's -- from a sprawling conglomerate with 100 divisions to one that concentrated on defense-industry electronics. Three-quarters of the company's business now is in defense contracting, but its shipbuilding, electronics and computer technology units have broadened into commercial markets.
        Mr. O'Green moved up to the company's No. 2 position, president, in 1972, and became chairman in 1981. He remained as chairman until 1988.
        As chairman, he succeeded Litton's founder and longtime chairman and chief executive, Charles P. Thornton. Mr. Thornton was known as a manager who relied heavily on balance sheet analysis. But Mr. O'Green was a hands-on leader who frequently visited Litton outposts and had amassed detailed knowledge of the company's products.
        ''He is more on top of operations than any other C.E.O. I have dealt with in a conglomerate,'' a Merrill Lynch & Company analyst, Carol Neves, told a reporter for The New York Times in 1983.
        As Mr. O'Green became president Litton's stock was declining, at one point trading at about $2 a share. Mr. O'Green managed to reverse that trend and today the company's shares are selling in the $60 range.
        Mr. O'Green, an electrical engineer who worked his way through Iowa State College by playing the clarinet, joined Litton in 1962 after six years as technical director of space programs at the Lockheed Corporation, where he was credited with helping to accelerate the United States space program at a time of intense competition with the Soviet Union. Beginning as general manager of a Litton division, Mr. O'Green moved swiftly through the upper ranges of the company, becoming an executive vice president in five years and, a year later, winning a seat on the board.
        Right out of college, in 1943, Mr. O'Green went to work as a civilian at  the Naval Ordinance Laboratories in Washington, where he spent 12 years developing and improving underwater warfare devices like depth charges. After a year at the labs, he enlisted and put on a naval uniform. Because of a hearing impairment, he was denied an officer's commission, but was designated a chief petty officer, one of the highest enlisted ranks. When the war ended he returned to mufti and the labs, where he stayed until taking the job at Lockheed in 1956.
        While at the naval labs, Mr. O'Green earned a Master of Science degree in electrical engineering at the University of Maryland.
        He is survived by his wife, Mildred, of Los Angeles; a sister, Verna Lundin of Osage, Mo.; two sons, Eric O'Green of Santa Clarita, Calif., and John O'Green of Moorpark, Calif.;  two daughters, Dr. Jane Koenig of Sacramento, Calif., and Susan O'Green of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
      