
        Walter Kendrick, a professor of English at Fordham University who was an authority on Victorian literature, an author and a literary critic, died early yesterday in Beth Israel Hospice in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in the West Village.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer,  said his companion, Daniel Applebaum.
        Professor Kendrick taught until early in this fall semester at Fordham, whose faculty he had joined as an assistant professor in 1975.
        The New York Times book critic Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review of Professor Kendrick's book ''The Thrill of Fear: 250 Years of Scary Entertainment'' (1991, Grove): ''In this lively new study of scary entertainment, the scholar Walter Kendrick -- the author of a diverting study of pornography called 'The Secret Museum' -- takes issue with 'those who bemoan the graphic bloodletting of late-century horror films, who see it as a symptom of terminal degeneracy in Western culture.' There is nothing particularly new about today's horror films, he writes, except innovations made possible by special-effects technology.''
        Ms. Kakutani called ''The Thrill of Fear'' ''informative and consistently entertaining,'' and the critic John Gross wrote, also in a review in The Times, that ''The Secret Museum: Pornography in Modern Culture'' (1987, California) had ''a great deal to recommend it.''
        Professor Kendrick's other writings included ''The Novel-Machine: The Theory and Fiction of Anthony Trollope'' (1980, Books on Demand). He contributed essays and reviews about literature and art to The Village Voice, The Oxford Review, Salmagundi and The Boston Globe. He also wrote book reviews for The  Times and almost 100 articles in various journals.
        At his death he was working on a book-length chronicle of two old Rhode Island families, the Kendricks and the Mayforths (his mother was a Mayforth).
        He was chairman of the literary criticism section of the Northeast Modern Language Association in 1981 and a fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1980 and 1981.
        Professor Kendrick was born in Providence, R.I., and received a bachelor's degree in 1968 from Wesleyan University and a doctorate in 1975 from Yale University. He was in the Army, stationed mainly in Germany, from 1968 to 1971.
        He is survived by his companion, Mr. Applebaum.
      