
        Verner Panton, the Danish industrial designer and architect known for his radical molded-plastic chairs, Op Art-inspired textiles and lighting, died at his home in Copenhagen on Sept. 5. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to his office in Basel, Switzerland, where he also had a residence.
        Mr. Panton was in the forefront of postwar European and American designers who were exploring new materials and their potential for mass production.
        Like Charles and Ray Eames and Eero Saarinen before him, Mr. Panton focused on the marriage between organic form and new technologies, adding his own imaginative twist, which made his designs Pop icons of the 1960's.
        Verner Panton was born on Feb. 13, 1926, in Gamtofte, Denmark. He studied at the Odense Technical School and at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen.
        From 1950 to 1952, Mr. Panton worked for Arne Jacobsen, Denmark's premier designer, and in 1955 he established his own architecture and design office, first in Denmark and later in Binningen, Switzerland, where he moved in 1963. In 1964, he married Marianne Pherson, who continues to work in his design studio.
        Mr. Panton's most significant design contribution was his 1960's curved and cantilevered plastic stacking side chair, also known as the Panton chair. It is credited with being the first single-piece molded plastic chair to succeed in production.
        Mr. Panton prepared for the design by visiting factories that made crash helmets and plastic buckets. For at least seven years he was unable to find a manufacturer capable or willing to take it on. Finally, in 1967, it went into production in Switzerland at the Vitra factory, where it is still being made.
        The sinuous Panton chair was quickly lauded as a breakthrough and was acquired by the most important design collections, including the one at the Museum of Modern Art in 1969.
        ''He was one of the first to give form to the aspirations of a whole generation that had some ideas about a new kind of living and a new kind of society,'' said Terence Riley, chief curator of the department of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art. ''Verner was there before anyone else and put his personal stamp on that vision.''
        With designs like a 1963 inflatable plastic stool, a wire-frame cone chair with pivot joint in place of legs, and Op-Art-patterned rugs, Mr. Panton's work had more in common with that of leading Italian designers than with the designs of Scandinavians who were working in fine, handcrafted wood.
        Not all his experiments were conducted on a small scale. In 1960, he designed two buildings, called the Cardboard House and the Plastic House.
        With a philosophy that revolution was, or ought to be, a sensory experience, Mr. Panton wielded color with boldness, from the glossy stacking side chair that came in violet, turquoise, red, orange, beige, black and white to the orange and red cafeteria he designed for Der Spiegel magazine (1969).
        His exhibition installations usually aimed to startle. For the 1968 Cologne Furniture Fair, he created a surreal interior with the images of gigantic lips, feet, arms, hands, eyes and ears printed on textile walls stretched like a tent, and colorful rubber balls covered in toweling tossed onto the floor.
        ''By experimenting with lighting, colors, textiles and furniture, and utilising the latest technologies, I try to show new ways to encourage people to use their fantasy and make their surroundings more exciting,'' he once told an interviewer.
        Mr. Panton's furniture, lighting and textile designs are in many important design collections, including those of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris, the Denver Museum of Art, and the Industrial Art Museum in Copenhagen. At the time of his death, he was overseeing a retrospective of his work at the Trapholt Museum in Kolding, Denmark. In addition to his wife, Mr. Panton is survived by his daughter, Carin von Halem of Basel, and his brother, Ole Panton of Charlottenlund, Denmark.
      