
        Christopher Gable, an English ballet star who made an unusually successful transition to film and theater, died on Oct. 23 at his home near Halifax in Yorkshire. He was 58.
        The cause was cancer, said Anna Izza, spokeswoman for the Northern Ballet in Leeds, which Mr. Gable directed.
        With his blond good looks and a sunny charm that telegraphed itself to the farthest reaches of the theater, Mr. Gable quickly rose to the top, though without much encouragement from the Royal Ballet. He began his ballet career in the late 1950's and by the early 60's was well on his way to becoming one of the most popular and gifted dancers of his generation.
        He made his name playing adolescent characters like the cousin in Kenneth MacMillan's 1960 ''Invitation,'' his first big role; the poignantly tender young man in Frederick Ashton's ''Two Pigeons,'' and Romeo in MacMillan's ''Romeo and Juliet.''
        MacMillan created one of the great ballet partnerships when he cast Mr. Gable with Lynn Seymour in ''The Invitation,'' a ballet noted for its brutal rape scene. Ms. Seymour, like Mr. Gable a strong actor, was a dancer whose passion and dark beauty were an ideal complement to him.
        The two created the roles of Romeo and Juliet in the MacMillan ballet, and though they were removed from the premiere cast at the last moment and replaced by Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn, who were considered bigger box-office draws, for many Mr. Gable and Ms. Seymour defined and were defined by those roles.
        Beneath Mr. Gable's good looks and well-proportioned ballet body, there lay an intelligence, warmth and seriousness that helped propel him through the politics of the ballet world and into the theater.
        He appeared as Lysander in Peter Brook's production of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company and was a member of the Royal Exchange Theater in Manchester for several seasons. Mr. Gable acted frequently on television, most notably in Ken Russell's BBC television film ''Delius.'' Mr. Gable also appeared in Mr. Russell's films ''The Rainbow'' and  ''The Boy Friend,'' where he played the title role opposite Twiggy.
        Mr. Gable returned to ballet in 1982, when he founded, with Ann Stannard, the Central School of Ballet in Clerkenwell. In 1987 he was lured back to the stage for the Northern Ballet Theater production of Gillian Lynne's ''Simple Man.''
        Mr. Gable was soon pressed into service directing the endangered company, building it into a major English troupe specializing in dance drama. He continued to work with the company up to his death.
        A cockney born in North London, Mr. Gable was an unlikely candidate for ballet stardom and often talked of  his career luck. Forced by his mother to take piano lessons along with the dance classes he lobbied for as a young boy, Mr. Gable was simply placed in the most convenient ballet school that did not require him to cross any busy streets. By 11, however, he was accepted by the Sadler's Wells Opera (now Royal) Ballet School.
        Mr. Gable's performing career began unpromisingly when he was put into the Covent Garden Opera Ballet on graduation, though he soon talked his way into the touring company of the Royal Ballet, where he danced from 1957 to 1963.
        He moved up into the prestigious wing of the company that performed at Covent Garden in 1963. There he partnered most of the leading ballerinas and made an impact in major roles that included Prince Siegfried in ''Swan Lake,'' Colas in Ashton's ''Fille Mal Gardee,'' Solor in ''La Bayadere'' and Franz in ''Coppelia.'' Mr. Gable left the Royal Ballet two years after the disappointment over ''Romeo and Juliet,'' attributing his departure to his persistent difficulties with arthritic feet.
        Mr. Gable was the subject of a 1989 BBC-TV documentary, ''The Amazing Adventures of Christopher Gable.'' He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1996.
        He is survived by his wife, Carole; a son, Tomas; a daughter, Emma, and a brother, Brian.
      