
        Stuart Sutherland, a British psychologist who analyzed his own brush with mental illness in the most remarkable of his insightful books, died on Nov. 8 in his home in Brighton, England. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, said the University of Sussex, where he was professor emeritus of experimental psychology.
        A severe case of manic depression struck Dr. Sutherland at the height of his career. His candid account of this experience, ''Breakdown: A Personal Crisis and a Medical Dilemma,'' became a best seller.
        It was first published in Britain in 1976, and it was revised and reissued this year by Oxford University Press.
        The new version added chapters on the latest therapies, including drugs that are now used to treat the disorder.
        His other books that are in print in this country are, ''Irrationality: Why We Can't Think Straight!'' (Rutgers, 1994) and ''The International Dictionary of Psychology'' (Crossroad, 1995).
        Norman Stuart Sutherland was born in Birmingham and educated at Magdalen College, Oxford, where he began his academic career after receiving a doctorate in 1953 with a joint degree in psychology, philosophy and physiology.
        A major focus of his research was how animals, including humans, recognize shapes.
        To pursue the subject, he made annual pilgrimages to Naples in the 1950's and 1960's to work at the Zoological Station there.
        He and several fellow experimenters investigated such things as the physical basis of memory, experimenting with the common octopus because it is one of the animal kingdom's fast learners.
        Dr. Sutherland lectured on experimental psychology at Oxford in the early 1960's and in 1965 joined the faculty of the newly established University of Sussex in Brighton. He made his mark when he set up and directed its experimental psychology laboratory and made it a magnet for aspiring specialists in that field.
        His mental breakdown in the early 1970's cut short his research, but he never stopped writing on his specialty as well as the wide range of subjects that piqued his interest.
        His ''Breakdown'' inspired the play ''Melon,'' by Simon Gray, which had a successful run in London's West End, starring Alan Bates.
        Dr. Sutherland is survived by his wife of 32 years, Jose Louis Fogden; two daughters, Gay and Julia Sutherland, and one granddaughter.
      