
        Theodore Newhouse, who began a lifelong career in publishing as a manager of a family-owned newspaper, The Long Island Press, and helped his brothers assemble one of the nation's biggest communications conglomerates, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Riverdale section of the Bronx after a long illness. He was 95.
        Mr. Newhouse was the last of the founding brothers who turned from hawking newspapers on the street to buying newspaper companies. The Newhouse holdings now include 26 newspapers; Conde Nast Publications, which publishes The New Yorker, Vogue and Vanity Fair; the Sunday newspaper supplement Parade, and interests in cable television programming and cable systems.
        As the associate publisher of Newhouse newspapers, Mr. Newhouse had kept up an active involvement in the family business until his health began to fail about 12 years ago, said David Starr, the senior editor of Newhouse newspapers. Mr. Newhouse moved into the nursing home in 1989.
        ''He was a hands-on, shirtsleeves manager and he knew more about newspaper production than anybody,'' Mr. Starr said. ''He was the elder person in the family and in the business. He was the consultant on everything.''
        Mr. Newhouse was raised in Bayonne, N.J., one of eight children of impoverished immigrants. His father came from Russia; his mother was from Austria. As a child, Mr. Newhouse helped the family by selling newspapers on the street.
        His eldest brother, Samuel I. Newhouse, who died in 1979, got the family into the publishing business when he bought The Staten Island Advance, a financially troubled paper, in 1922. Mr. Newhouse, then 19, was recruited to help out and get what he would later call ''on the job training,'' as was another brother, Norman, who died in 1988. That fraternal management style came to characterize the Newhouse family business.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Newhouse maintained a strong interest in the arts. Even as he was working at the family's first newspapers, he took night courses at several New York City universities in opera, music and art, and studied dance in the summers.
        With his wife, Caroline H. Newhouse, whom he married in 1956 after the death of his first wife, Beatrice, Mr. Newhouse was a patron of several arts organizations, including the New York City Opera and Career Transition for Dancers, a nonprofit organization that helps professional dancers after they retire.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Newhouse is survived by two granddaughters, Julie Lobel and Amy Bermant Adler, both of New York City, who are the children of his daughter, Jane Berman, and six great-grandchildren.
      