
        Former Representative Dante B. Fascell, a Florida Democrat who was chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee from 1984 through 1992, died on Saturday at his home in Clearwater, Fla. He was 81 and had lived in Miami until June.
        The cause was colon cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Fascell (pronounced Fah-SELL) helped to oversee American policy on issues like arms control and the war on drugs as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which he began serving on in 1957. He was a strong supporter of Israel and a fervent opponent of President Fidel Castro of Cuba.
        He represented voters in Greater Miami, which is Dade County, and in the Florida Keys, which is part of Monroe County, from 1955 through 1992, when he did not run for re-election.
        When he was first elected to Congress, his district included all of Greater Miami, comprising the City of Miami and 27 other municipalities. But the part of his district in Dade County shrank through redistricting.
        Last month, President Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom with a citation calling him ''a man of reason and conscience'' who was ''courageous in war and public service.''
        Mr. Fascell strongly favored bipartisanship in foreign policy. In his last years in Congress he frequently voted with Republicans on foreign policy issues, particularly those involving Latin America. His opposition to any softening of United States policy toward the Castro Government and his backing of the Reagan Administration's efforts to undermine the Sandinistas were welcomed by immigrants from Cuba and Nicaragua, who constituted 40 percent of the population of his district.
        In the debate over what the United States' policy should be after Iraq invaded Kuwait, in 1990, and before the Persian Gulf War, in 1991, he was one of the leading Democrats who supported President Bush's decision to send American forces to the area and to form a coalition with other nations, which also dispatched forces there. Those forces played a crucial role in Iraq's defeat in the war.
        In an interview last year, Mr. Fascell said he took pride in his fight for human rights abroad, particularly on behalf of people -- known as ''refuseniks'' -- who had been prevented from leaving the Soviet bloc. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''our human rights effort helped lead to the disintegration of the entire eastern empire.''
        Before he became chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, he was chairman, at different times, of the Subcommittee on Inter-American Affairs, the Subcommittee on International Operations and the Subcommittee on State Department Organization.
        In domestic affairs, he was regarded as a liberal on social and environmental issues, and he gained admiration from Floridians for his ability to direct Federal money to projects he favored.
        Mr. Fascell's decision not to run for re-election in 1992 surprised many Floridians. Political analysts said at the time that a significant factor was a court-ordered plan for the reapportionment of Congressional districts in Florida. The reapportionment was intended partly to provide maximum opportunities for Hispanic and black voters to acquire representation in Congress.
        About three-quarters of Mr. Fascell's district in south suburban Miami was appended to other districts, and he was shifted to a new district that included only part of Dade County, which had been his political base. The new district included a large area of neighboring Broward County, where he lacked organized backing.
        Mr. Fascell said at the time that the reapportionment had not been his chief reason for retiring from Congress. He recalled that his mother, who had died recently at age 96, had been telling him that he had done all he intended to do in public life and that he should slow down. He noted that he had been in the House for nearly four decades and said, ''This seems like a good time for a change in my life.''
        After stepping down, Mr. Fascell, who served in the Florida Legislature from 1951 to 1954, became a partner in a Miami law firm, Holland & Knight.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Jeanne-Marie Pelot; two daughters, Sandra Diamond of Clearwater and Toni Strother of Miami; three grandchildren; a brother, Rudy, who lives near Tampa, Fla., and a sister, Vera Porfiri of Coral Gables, Fla.
        Mr. Fascell was born in Bridgehampton, N.Y., to Charles A. Fascell and the former Mary Gullotti, who were immigrants from Italy. The family moved to Miami while he was a child.
        He received a law degree from the University of Miami in 1938, was admitted to the Florida bar in that year and had a private law practice in Miami before and after World War II. During the war, he served in the Army in North Africa and Italy, rose to be a captain and commanded a truck company.
        Later he said his war service had persuaded him to pursue a career in public service.
        ''If American men are going to be sent to war,'' he said, ''I want to know why and be part of the process that decides whether they should go.''
      