
        Alfred Mitchell Bingham, a well-born, well-heeled radical who made a broken field run through 20th century intellectual history, coming of age as a rock-ribbed Republican in the 1920's, veering left in the 1930's as a leader of the quest for an American-style collectivism, then returning to the capitalist fold in the 1940's as a straight-ticket Democrat, died on Monday at his home in Clinton, N.Y.
        He was 93, and as an author and founder of the journal Common Sense had written extensively about once burning social, political and economic issues.
        From the perspective of 60 years, the often fervid debates among leftist intellectuals of the 1930's can seem quaint. But then it is easy to forget what a shattering impact the Depression had on the credibility of capitalism and how attractive the promise of socialism could seem in comparison.
        Whatever the forces of ferment of the 1930's, it would be hard to imagine a less likely radical than Mr. Bingham. A Mayflower descendant whose grandfather and great-grandfathers, both named Hiram Bingham, were prominent Protestant missionaries in the Pacific, he was the son of Hiram Bingham 3d, an explorer and historian who discovered the Incan ruins at Machu Picchu in Peru, taught Latin American history at Yale, then entered Connecticut Republican politics with such a flourish that within one 24-hour period in 1925 he served as Lieutenant Governor and Governor and began an eight-year stint as an ultra conservative United States Senator.
        For all the missionary zeal and adventurism he inherited from his father, Mr. Bingham did even better by his mother, Alfreda Mitchell, a granddaughter of Charles L. Tiffany, the founder of the Fifth Avenue store, whose wealth, as Mr. Bingham documented in a privately published 1995 book, helped seed generations of Bingham enterprises, including the political career of his younger brother Jonathan, who was a longtime Democratic Representative from the Bronx.
        Mr. Bingham, who was born in New Haven as the second of seven sons and grew up in an imposing house on Prospect Avenue, attended Groton, then Yale and its law school, where what he once described as his smug Republicanism began to unravel. Fired with a democratic zeal by two of his law professors, Felix Frankfurter and William O. Douglas, Mr. Bingham shelved his law degree and worked briefly at a series of menial jobs.
        Then, financed by his Tiffany grandmother, he set off on a two-year world tour, using family connections to gain interviews with Mussolini, Gandhi and other world leaders and paying a visit to the Soviet Union, where he was impressed by the apparent success of the first Five Year Plan.
        Back in the United States in 1932, Mr. Bingham plunged almost immediately into radical politics. Settling in New York, he founded Common Sense, a militant journal whose slogan, ''production for use not for profit,'' underscored its stated belief that ''the capitalist system cannot be saved and is not worth saving.''
        Mr. Bingham, who saw the journal becoming the organ of a militant new third party, advocated a cooperative, planned and classless society that, with appropriate taxation, nationalization of banks and the like, would, he insisted, assure an average American family an annual income of $5,000 a year.
        If his stance seems quixotic, hewas in good company. The magazine's contributors included James Agee, Upton Sinclair, John Dos Passos, John Dewey, Theodore Dreiser, Edmund Wilson, and the governors of Wisconsin, Philip La Follette, and Minnesota, Floyd B. Olson.
        The son of the man who discovered Machu Picchu was hardly a rolltop desk liberal. In one celebrated incident early in 1934, he was bodily ejected from the Waldorf-Astoria's elegant Empire Room after trying to give a speech to diners in support of striking waiters and kitchen workers. Later that year, defying an edict by Mayor Frank Hague that there be no peaceful demonstrations in Jersey City, he was arrested while picketing in support of striking furniture workers there. His swift conviction was later overturned on appeal.
        For Mr. Bingham, who served as an officer of the Farmer-Labor Political Federation and the American Civil Liberties Union and turned out three books, it was a heady decade, but with the outbreak of World War II he reconciled himself to the two-party system. Repairing to the Bingham family's ancestral home in Salem, Conn., he reinvented himself as a New Deal Democrat and rode the Roosevelt coattails to victory in 1940 for what turned out to be a single term in the State Senate.
        After writing three more books and serving in the Army in World War II, he became a lawyer in Connecticut, but continued his interest in politics. Among other things, he helped to found the state chapter of Americans for Democratic Action in 1947, made a failed bid for Congress in 1952 and held a series of offices in Salem, including Probate Judge.
        In 1974, at the age of 81, the radical old war horse was stirred anew when a son, Stephen, a young lawyer, was accused of smuggling a pistol used in a fatal, failed prison break, to a San Quentin inmate, George Jackson. After 11 years as a fugitive, the younger Mr. Bingham turned himself in and was acquitted at trial, but not before his father had spent what was described as the bulk of his fortune on legal fees.
        After the death of his first wife, Sylvia Knox, in 1981, he married Katherine Stryker Dunn. He began spending much of his time at her home in Clinton while continuing his writing, including a 1989 biography of his father.
        In addition to his wife and son, who now lives in San Rafael, Calif., Mr. Bingham is survived by a daughter, Alfreda Shapere of Salem; two other sons, Christopher of St. Paul, Minn. and Douglas of Edmonton, Alberta, and five granchildren.
        Correction:  November 9, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday of Alfred M. Bingham, a onetime political radical, misstated the publishing status and the publication date of a book he wrote about his family. The book, ''The Tiffany Fortune,'' was published in 1996 by Abeel & Leet and is still in print.
      