
        Glenn E. Nielson, who built a petroleum and asphalt empire from a single leased oilfield and a closed oil refinery it served in Cody, Wyo., died on Oct. 19 at his home in Cody, according to Margaret Ruth Bullock, his daughter. He was 95.
        Mr. Nielson found partners to help him buy what was then called the Park Refinery Company in 1938, a year after its owner had asked him to try to find a buyer. He then cajoled friends and local financiers into giving him enough cash to run the operation. By 1952, he had transformed it into the Husky Oil Company, a publicly traded company with production in Canada and seven states and refineries churning out gasoline and asphalt.
        Mr. Nielson went on to gain the nickname Mr. Asphalt for his tireless efforts to expand use of the paving material in the United States and Canada and a leading spokesman for regional oil companies in the industry's trade organizations.
        In 1966, he gained broader recognition as chairman of the Business-Industry Political Action Committee, a business lobbying group set up in 1963 to counter the influence of the Committee on Political Education, then the political action arm of organized labor.
        Husky had become Canada's largest producer of heavy oil from the huge crude deposits in Saskatchewan and Alberta by 1977, when it became the target of a bitter takeover battle pitting the Occidental Petroleum Company against Petro-Canada, which was owned by the Canadian Government.
        A third company, the Alberta Gas Trunk Line Company, finally gained control in 1979 when Mr. Nielson sold his family's 20 percent stake for more than $100 million. Mr. Nielson then retired to concentrate on ranching and a range of philanthropic and Mormon activities that maintained his place as one of Wyoming's most prominent citizens.
        Mr. Nielson was born on May 26, 1903, in Aetna, Alberta, the son of James and Margaret Nielson, and grew up in Cardston, a Mormon farming center in Alberta 15 miles north of the Montana border. Mr. Nielson graduated from Raymond Agricultural College in Alberta in 1921 and then worked on his father's ranch before going on Mormon missions in England and California from 1924 to 1927.
        He borrowed heavily to become a wheat farmer and rancher in 1929 but returned to school when prices plunged, working as a janitor while completing a bachelor's degree in agriculture and economics at the University of Alberta. After moving to Montana in 1935, he worked as a ranch hand, truck driver, power-line rigger and oil salesman before investing in the oil business.
        Mr. Nielson married Olive Wood in Cardston in 1928. In addition to Mrs. Bullock, of Cody, he is survived by his wife; two other daughters, Joanne Livingston of Atherton, Calif., and Anne Marie Hales of Cheyenne, Wyo.; two sons, Glenn W. and James E. Nielson, both of Cody, 35 grandchildren and 68 great-grandchildren.
      