
        Bob Trow, an actor who helped usher two generations of children through their formative years as a member of the cast of ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,'' died on Monday at his home in New Alexandria, Pa. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, said David Newell, who plays Mr. McFeely on ''Mister Rogers.''
        Mr. Trow portrayed Robert Troll, Bob Dog and sometimes simply himself for some 30 years on the program, which is produced at the Pittsburgh public television station WQED. He had taped appearances for the program just last week that were to be broadcast in February as part of a lesson on ''noisy and quiet.''
        Although they were creations of a mind fluent in the language of make-believe, ''the characters he did represented child development theories,'' said Mr. Newell. He gave the example of Robert Troll, a sort of precursor to the Teletubbies, contemporary public television characters that are dressed like outer-space toddlers and designed to appeal to preverbal children. Troll was a character whose nonsensical language elicited responses in babies just learning to speak.
        ''Bob was one of the most uniquely whimsical people I've ever worked with, and such an important part of the spirit of the neighborhood,'' said Fred Rogers, the host of the program.
        Mr. Trow was ''a classic clown,'' he said. ''The clown has so many facets to him, and there's always a very tender spot in the true clown.''
        Before joining the PBS show, Mr. Trow got his start in broadcasting on morning radio shows in Pittsburgh. First on WWSW and then KDKA, he played comic characters whose role was to harass the host. Among his most popular were Carmen Monoxide, an incorrigible punster and a character thought to be very close to its creator's personality, and Omicron, a bureaucrat from Venus.
        Mr. Trow also wrote and produced television and radio commercials, and painted oil portraits of visitors to his home.
        He is survived by his wife, Lois; two sons, Eric, of Plum, Pa., and Rob, of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      