
        Luther Jerstad, an Oregon mountain guide and member of the first American team to reach the top of Mount Everest, in 1963, died last Saturday in Nepal on a trek up Mount Kala Pattar, a much lesser cousin in the Great Himalayan Range. He was 61 and lived in Portland.
        News reports from Katmandu said Mr. Jerstad suffered a heart attack 500 feet from the summit of the 15,000-foot Kala Pattar, which is best known for its spectacular vistas of Mount Everest, at 29,028 feet the world's highest peak.
        Mr. Jerstad, who went by the name of Lute, was a teacher with a doctorate in drama before he went into business to guide rafting adventures and tiger photography trips in Asia. He also ran climbing schools on Mount Hood in Oregon and Mount Rainier in Washington.
        Most of that happened after he entered the record books as one of a quintet of American alpinists who scaled Everest from two sides, intending to meet at the summit in May 1963. Mr. Jerstad came away with a mild frostbite that numbed his fingers and toes.
        He and three others nearly died when darkness fell and they had to spend the night in the open at 28,000 feet with just their parkas to protect them when the temperature sank to well below zero. At that time, it was the highest point that climbers ever lived through a night outdoors, and only the absence of strong winds saved the men.
        Two men had to be evacuated. But Mr. Jerstad walked back down all the way, carrying his movie camera along with the distinction of being the first man to shoot a film atop the highest spot on earth.
        Everest had claimed a number of lives before 1953 when Edmund Hillary, a New Zealander, and Tenzing Norgay, conquered it and the world's attention. Two Swiss teams duplicated their feat three years later.
        The American team split in two to tackle Everest in the biggest and best-equipped expedition yet. One fought snowslides and windstorms along the perilous and untried West Ridge. The other, including Mr. Jerstad, reached the summit via the South Col, the route taken in the three previous conquests of the mountain. The two teams missed each other at the very top but met on a southern ledge just below.
        Lute Jerstad grew up on a Minnesota farm and had not seen a real mountain until his family moved to the Northwest when he was 13. An outstanding athlete, he honed his mountaineering skills on Rainier and graduated from Pacific Lutheran University, where he won four varsity basketball letters.
        He also earned a master's degree at Washington State University and taught high school. He obtained a doctorate at the University of Oregon and taught there and at Lewis and Clark College.
        His career as a professor lasted three years, after which he began Lute Jerstad Adventures in Portland, a guide service offering treks and rafting expeditions.
        Mr. Jerstad is survived by his wife, Susan; two daughters, Kari Jerstad of Portland, and Jana Cox of McKinley, Calif.; a sister, Kay Morton of Portland, and three grandchildren.
      