
        Louis P. Daniel, who tried to bring the food and atmosphere of the best bistros of Paris to Le Chambertin, the classic French restaurant he operated for many years in Manhattan, died at his home in Phoenicia, N.Y., on Oct. 29. He was 77.
        He had been suffering from cancer for many years, said his wife, Margaret Gibson Daniel.
        Mr. Daniel was born in Brittany and made his way to Paris as a teen-ager. He worked in various restaurants there until 1942, when, during the German occupation of the city, he was taken prisoner and sent to Germany to work in the materiel plants.
        After the war he returned to Paris and the restaurant business, working at, among other places, the brasserie across the Seine from the police headquarters that the author Georges Simenon used as the Brasserie Dauphine, a canteen for the fictional Inspector Maigret.
        In 1950, Mr. Daniel joined a group of his colleagues and went to Bermuda to help reopen the Castle Harbour Hotel, which had been closed during the war. Soon after, Mr. Daniel moved on to New York, working in  the small French restaurants that proliferated in the West 40's and 50's  in the postwar years. He became a United States citizen in 1952.
        In the late 1950's, after eight years at Les Pyrenees, a well-known West Side restaurant, he opened Le Chambertin, at 348 West 46th Street, insisting that its decor and menu reflect the better bistros of his youth. The waiters and cooks were French, and the menu was classic. Mr. Daniel was no more interested in nouvelle cuisine than he was in modern decor.
        In one respect he was well ahead of his time. He spent his weekends at his home on the Esopus River in Phoenicia, in the Catskills, an area that was then, and to some extent still is, known as the French Catskills. Each Sunday night, or Monday morning, Mr. Daniel piled his station wagon high with fresh produce from his meticulously managed four-acre garden, the better to serve his clientele on 46th Street during the week.
        In 1975, he closed Le Chambertin, worn out, he said, from the effort involved in maintaining an old-fashioned French restaurant in a rapidly modernizing New York. When he announced that he planned to become a wine salesman, his colleagues in the restaurant world were skeptical. They predicted that his old friends, restaurant owners and bartenders, would become tight-fisted when he came calling with his wine list.
        In fact, he became a successful salesman for the House of Burgundy, an importer specializing in French wines, winning customers in New York and in the Hudson Valley, where in later years he spent more and more of his time.
        As illness slowed his pace in the late 1980's, he spent part of the year in Florida, but as an avid outdoorsman, he continued to hunt and fish in the Catskills whenever he could.
        Besides his wife of 35 years, he is survived by a sister and several nieces and nephews, all of whom live in France.
      