
        Jean Marais, who became one of France's most popular movie and theater actors thanks to his close friendship with the Surrealist poet and artist Jean Cocteau, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cannes. He was 84 and lived in Vallauris on the French Riviera.
        Initially, Mr. Marais's great asset was his striking good looks, a feature that turned him into a heartthrob for teen-age girls in his heyday in the 1940's and 50's, but also into a pinup among gays who knew of his unpublicized relationship with Cocteau. But in time, he earned immense respect as an actor in more than 70 movies and scores of stage appearances.
        He always said that he cared little for posterity and recognition, but French officials and cultural luminaries lined up to pay homage to him after his death. Prime Minister Lionel Jospin said that ''for half a century he personified that artistic universe where talent blends with dreams and poetry.''
        Mr. Marais was perhaps best known for his role as the beast in Cocteau's 1946 classic, ''Beauty and the Beast,'' in which Rene Clement was also credited as co-director. After World War II, the actor appeared in numerous swashbuckling movies, like ''The Count of Monte Cristo'' and ''Le Capitain Fracasse.''
        During a long career, which wound down after 1970 when he turned his energies to painting and sculpture, he worked with many of Europe's top directors, including Marcel Carne, Abel Gance, Sacha Guitry, Georg Pabst, Jacques Demy and Claude Lelouch, as well as Cocteau and Clement. His last screen appearance was in Bernardo Bertolucci's ''Stealing Beauty'' in 1995.
        Born in Cherbourg, France, on Dec. 11, 1913, as Jean Villain-Marais, he moved to Paris with his mother and brother when he was a child. His dream of becoming an actor seemed doomed when he was twice rejected by drama schools, but at age 20 he began winning small parts in long-forgotten movies. His break came four years later when Cocteau met him and promptly fell in love with him. Their relationship lasted until Cocteau's death in 1963.
        Mr. Marais continued to work in cinema and theater during the German occupation of France from 1940 to 1944, but after the liberation of Paris he joined France's Second Armored Division and participated in the Allied offensive into Germany as a driver of trucks carrying fuel and ammunition to the front.
        With ''Beauty and the Beast,'' however, he became an overnight star. He made four more films with Cocteau -- ''L'Aigle a Deux Tetes,'' ''Les Parents Terribles,'' ''Orphee'' and ''Le Testament d'Orphee'' -- but he was also enormously in demand among other directors.
        Onstage, he became known for playing classical roles, even directing himself in 1969 in Cocteau's ''Oedipe-Roi.''
        He is survived by an adopted son, Serge.
        Mr. Marais published several autobiographical books as well as a biography of Cocteau called ''L'Inconcevable Jean Cocteau.'' In his later years, working from his home on the Riviera, he was proudest of work as a painter and sculptor.
        Modest and good-humored, he always claimed that life had been unfairly good to him. ''I always wanted to be happy,'' he said in an interview last year with Le Figaro.
        ''Perhaps that's what pleased Cocteau, who was so anguished. I have never known stress. I was a sort of beast, a peasant type. I had no culture. I had never heard of Cocteau. I was given an unbelievable chance.''
      