
        Leonard de Paur, a conductor of choruses and orchestras, an arranger and an administrator who for 17 years was the director of community relations for Lincoln Center, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83.
        Mr. de Paur created the popular Lincoln Center Out of Doors festival  and the Community Holiday Festival, which both present international artists from a wide variety of disciplines.
        His work as director of community relations was enriched by his gregarious nature, broad engagement with the fine and popular arts and, as a black man, his ties to minority communities.
        Mr. de Paur had an extensive career as a conductor and arranger before his work at Lincoln Center. From 1947 to 1968 he conducted more than 2,300 performances with a succession of groups: the de Paur Infantry Chorus, the de Paur Opera Gala, the de Paur Gala and the de Paur Chorus.
        During this period he also appeared as a guest conductor with the Cincinnati Symphony, the Orchestra of America and the Minnesota Symphony, among others, and was a regular conductor of the Symphony of the New World and Opera South.
        He was also the choral director for several recordings that have become classics, including the 1947 RCA Victor recording of the opera ''Four Saints in Three Acts,'' with music by Virgil Thomson and text by Gertrude Stein, in which many singers were from the original all-black 1934 cast, and the 1963 RCA Victor recording of excerpts from Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' with Leontyne Price and William Warfield.
        Mr. de Paur used to say there was never a time when he could not remember wanting to be a musician. He was born in Summit, N.J., on Nov. 18, 1914. And though his father, a lawyer active in local politics, was at first dismayed by his son's choice of career, both of Mr. de Paur's parents were music lovers. In a 1989 interview, Mr. de Paur recalled of his father: ''Like all people with big, deep bass voices, my father adored tenors. So we had in the house lots of records by Caruso, and every record that John McCormack must have made.''
        Mr. de Paur attended the Juilliard School and Columbia University. His teachers included the composer Henry Cowell and the conductor Pierre Monteux.
        For a while he toured as a baritone on the Loew's Theater circuit. In 1932, he began a four-year stint as assistant conductor of the noted Hall Johnson Choir.
        From 1936 to 1939, Mr. de Paur was a music director with the Federal Negro Theater, a Works Progress Administration project, notably working on the all-black production of ''Macbeth,'' directed by a young actor named Orson Welles.
        In 1942 he enlisted in the United States Army and was assigned to the Army Air Corps. He soon became the choral director for the official Army Air Force show, ''Winged Victory.''
        It was from this show, after the war ended, that the ranks of his first ensemble, the de Paur Infantry Chorus, were drawn. This and his subsequent choirs brought a wide repertory, including the music of African-Americans, to countries around the world.
        He was also the musical director for the 1952 revival on Broadway of ''Four Saints in Three Acts,'' which featured Ms. Price, just out of Juilliard, in her first professional performance. He also worked on the enormously successful revival of ''Carmen Jones,'' an all-black retelling of the ''Carmen'' story.
        Over the years Mr. de Paur served as a consultant on cultural development for Tunisia, as a repertory consultant and editor for the music publisher G. Schirmer Inc. and as an arranger and conductor on the ''Bell Telephone Hour,'' the ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' and other television programs.
        His teaching career included posts at the University of Colorado and Lewis and Clarke College in Portland, Ore. He received honorary doctorates from Lewis and Clark as well as Morehouse College.
        Mr. de Paur's first marriage ended in divorce in 1955. He is survived by his wife, Norma Childs de Paur; a daughter, Norma Lynn de Paur; a son, Leonard Childs de Paur, and three grandchildren.
        At his retirement in 1988, a plaque was mounted in Mr. de Paur's honor in Lincoln Center Plaza, which remains a testimony to his many contributions.
      