
        Stephen D. James, a onetime advertising copywriter whose unlikely proposal for a vast Soviet-American hostage-exchange program propelled him onto the cold war stage and led to cultural exchange tours in the 1960's, died on Jan. 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        His family said the cause was an infection during treatment for heart disease and cancer.
        More than three decades later it is hard to imagine the world that led an obscure advertising man from the Bronx to become a fixture at international conferences and diplomatic forums. It was a world where the tense standoff between two superpowers with vast nuclear arsenals had already produced a sense of nuclear dread in American society.
        After the Berlin wall went up in August 1961 and the Soviet Union broke a three-year nuclear-test moratorium soon afterward by detonating a hydrogen bomb in what remains the largest explosion ever recorded, the dread became an active terror. The era of fallout shelters, civil defense drills and nuclear war survival kits followed.
        For all his surprising success in harnessing that fear to gain the attention of policy makers in Washington and Moscow, more than three decades later it is hard to imagine what Mr. James might have wrought if he had had access to the Internet.
        As it was, he had only a typewriter, a post office box and an idea: avert nuclear war through an exchange of millions of American and Soviet citizens.
        In mailings to editors, columnists, government officials and others at the end of 1961, he proposed that the Soviet and American governments  establish a program in which millions of volunteer ''peace hostages'' from each country would spend from six months to two years living and working in the other country.
        In addition to serving as hostages, he suggested, the volunteers would advance the cause of peace simply by getting to know each other's countries.
        Although the idea, which was hardly original, struck many as preposterous given geopolitical realities, it also struck a chord, if only because it reflected a grass-roots yearning for peace.
        The fact that the idea came from a common citizen rather than a prominent academician or government official added to its appeal. Mr. James, certainly, had no credentials as an international diplomat.
        He was a native of Minneapolis who specialized in photography with the Army Air Forces in World War II. He graduated from the University of Illinois, received a master's degree in English there and later earned a master's in education at Stanford University.
        He taught school in California for several years before he and his second wife, Denise, moved to New York in 1957 to become advertising copywriters.
        Once Mr. James began his campaign for peace, it did not take long for his idea to spread.
        In a syndicated newspaper column in January 1962, for example, Eleanor Roosevelt called the idea ''rather impractical,'' but passed it on to readers anyway, carefully listing Mr. James's post office box, and generating a new round of responses and further publicity.
        Mr. James insisted that the hostages must include close relatives of high government officials, and when a daughter and son-in-law of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York signed on in July 1962, the proposal gained enhanced credibility.
        Mr. James, who conferred with Soviet and American diplomats in Washington and Moscow and attended an international peace conference in Africa, soon attracted enough financial backing to quit his job and work full time advancing his idea.
        In the end, an extensive hostage exchange proved too ambitious. So Mr. James scaled back his idea, formed the Citizen Exchange Corps, and began promoting what became the first large-scale cultural exchanges between the United States and the Soviet Union.
        Beginning in 1965, when his wife led a delegation of 144 Americans on a three-week tour of the Soviet Union, the corps sponsored many well-publicized tours, including one by 100 women from Glassboro, N.J., in the aftermath of a summit meeting there in 1967 between President Lyndon B. Johnson and Premier Alexei Kosygin of the Soviet Union.
        When Mr. James resigned as director of the corps in 1974, the organization had sponsored tours by several thousand Americans and hundreds of Soviet citizens.
        Mr. James is survived by a son from his first marriage, Aram, of Palo Alto, Calif.; another son, Timothy, of Manhattan; two daughters, Megan Lopez of New Paltz, N.Y., and Caitlin, of Takoma Park, Md., and four grandchildren.
      