
        Milton Handler, a leading antitrust expert and drafter of some of the nation's best-known laws, died on Tuesday. He was 95.
        Professor Handler suffered a stroke on Thursday, said his daughter, Carol E. Handler.
        Professor Handler, who taught at Columbia University Law School for nearly half a century, ranged far beyond the classroom. He was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's chief adviser on antitrust matters, served as the first general counsel to the National Labor Relations Board and helped to draft such landmark statutes as the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, the National Labor Relations Act and the G.I. Bill of Rights. In the 1950's and 1960's, he became one of the top antitrust litigators in the country.
        An ardent Zionist, he was close to the founders of the Israeli state and participated in the legal brief submitted to the United Nations in support of the 1947 partition plan. His proudest legal achievement, he often said, was securing Albert Einstein's papers for Hebrew University.
        ''In the realm of trade regulation he was a colossus and in all respects he lived grandly in the law,'' said Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg of the United States Supreme Court, who is among the many prominent jurists who studied under Mr. Handler and later became friends.
        The youngest of seven children, he was born in the Bronx in 1903. His father died when he was 2, and the family moved to Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia College in 1923 and briefly dreamed of teaching literature before he became captivated by the law. He graduated from Columbia Law School in 1926 with top honors. For one year he was a clerk for Justice Harlan Fiske Stone of the Supreme Court, for whom he developed a lifelong admiration, and then was invited by the dean of the Columbia Law School to teach trade regulation in the summer session. That marked the beginning of a 45-year teaching career.
        One of his first assignments at the Supreme Court had been to help Justice Stone draft his landmark opinion in United States v. Trenton Potteries Company et al, a ruling that held that price-fixing agreements always violated the Sherman Act, whether or not the prices charged were reasonable. From then on, Professor Handler focused his intellectual energies on antitrust issues, a scholarly endeavor that became, as he later put it, ''the essence of my life.''
        As a teacher who taught by the Socratic method, he was diligent, even daunting. ''By working day and night I was able to amass enough knowledge for each class session, generally being one day ahead of the class,'' he later wrote.
        In 1932, while still in his 20's, Mr. Handler was drafted by the Roosevelt campaign to work on the Democrats' antitrust message and stayed on as the Administration's chief antitrust adviser. In 1937, he helped create the Temporary National Economic Committee. The summary of antitrust law that he wrote for the committee has since become part of the legal canon.
        During World War II, Professor Handler served on the Lend-Lease Administration. He was also a key organizer of a Government emergency board to rescue Jews from the Holocaust. In January 1944, Professor Handler drafted the executive order creating the War Refugee Board, but only after an uphill battle for support. ''One cannot but wonder how many lives might have been saved if the board had been set up in the early war years,'' he later said.
        After the war, Professor Handler prepared amendments to the Social Security Act that later became the foundation for Medicare. He was especially proud of his role in creating the G.I. Bill of Rights. ''Nothing is more important than providing people with the skills that they get from an education,'' he later wrote.
        By the 1950's, Professor Handler was developing one of the most successful private antitrust practices in the country. He became a partner in a leading New York law firm, Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. As counsel and litigator, he represented some of the nation's biggest corporations, including Xerox, Pepsico, the American Tobacco Company and Texaco, and he argued many cases before the Supreme Court.
        By then, Professor Handler's reputation as a scholar was so stellar that judges, many of whom had been his students or were devotees of his published lectures, frequently consulted him.
        ''He had an extraordinary presence in the courtroom,'' recalled David Klingsberg, chairman of Kaye, Scholer, who worked closely with Professor Handler starting in the early 1960's. ''Judges listened to what he had to say.''
        Prolific well into his 90's, Professor Handler published numerous articles, casebooks and texts, including classics on trade regulation, labor law and antitrust. His annual series of antitrust lectures, published in three separate collections, have long been considered required reading for anyone interested in the field.
        On antitrust matters, Professor Handler's philosophy was distinctively centrist. ''He stood for balance,'' said his daughter, who is also an antitrust lawyer. His philosophy was that the principle of economic competition was as fundamental to American democracy as the freedom to express competing ideas. In the ''big is bad'' 50's and 60's, Professor Handler criticized the Government control of business issues preferred by Justices William O. Douglas and Hugo L. Black. But in the 80's, he also said the Reagan and Bush Administrations brought too few antitrust cases. Human nature had not changed, he liked to point out.
        Professor Handler was granted numerous prizes and honorary degrees. Last May, he received the prestigious John Sherman Award from the antitrust division of the Justice Department.
        Elegant and urbane, Professor Handler lived on Park Avenue and had a second home in Palm Beach and closets so full of suits and elegant shoes that house guests were hard pressed to find an empty hanger or shelf. A lover of music, interesting people and dinner parties, he could talk intelligently on subjects ranging from the law and politics to philosophy and biography.
        Professor Handler enjoyed excellent health until almost the end. Indeed, he had just been host at a dinner for some of New York's leading legal lights at the Four Seasons a few nights before he suffered a stroke, dominating the conversation with witty anecdotes.
        Professor Handler's first wife, Marion Winter Kahn, whom he married in 1931, died in 1953. His second wife, Miriam Adler, whom he married in 1955, died in 1997. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by two granddaughters, Alisa Marion Schoenbach and Ilana Abigail Schoenbach.
      