
        Gerald Long, who as general manager of the Reuters news agency in the 1960's presided over its transformation from a hand-to-mouth wire service to a profitable, computer-age news organization, died in Paris on Sunday, Reuters said. He was 75.
        When Mr. Long took over at Reuters in 1963 after the unexpected death of Walton Cole, the previous general manager, the agency was just breaking even, barely paying its bills year to year. Mr. Long soon determined that if it were to compete in the increasingly cutthroat marketplace, the company would have to turn a profit and make itself truly international.
        Mr. Long was born in York, the son of a literary-minded mail carrier who encouraged him to pursue his education. After graduating from Cambridge in 1943, Mr. Long joined the army, where he was assigned to the intelligence division, and he was eventually sent to Germany to help set up German newspapers after World War II. He joined Reuters in 1948.
        He rose quickly up the ranks in the company, working in Frankfurt, Paris and Ankara, Turkey, as a correspondent and editor. He returned to London in 1960, where he became the assistant general manager. He was promoted to the top job three years later.
        The next year, Reuters signed a contract with the Ultronics Corporation of New Jersey under which the company would provide computers and Reuters would provide information about the stock and money markets to subscribers.
        The venture was wildly successful and made Reuters a significant force in the dissemination of financial information.
        In 1967, the company made another bold move, setting up an independent reporting arm and severing its cooperative ties with The Associated Press and Dow Jones, which it had depended on in the past for news and financial information. Six years later, Mr. Long was made the managing director of Reuters.
        Mr. Long left the company in 1981 and took a job with Rupert Murdoch as managing director of The Times of London. After so many years at a wire service, he did not take to newspaper life, and Mr. Long, a gastronome of the first order, angered Mr. Murdoch after entering into an acrimonious correspondence with Albert Roux, a superstar chef, about cheeses he had eaten and not enjoyed at Le Gavroche, Mr. Roux's restaurant. The correspondence was printed in The Times just as Mr. Murdoch was about to eliminate 600 union jobs, and he feared Mr. Long's notoriety could complicate the matter. Mr. Long was removed from his post soon afterward. He stayed on as vice chairman of The Times until 1984, when he retired to France, living in Paris, Provence and Normandy, where he kept a bust of Julius Reuter, the founder of Reuters, in his backyard.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne, three daughters and two sons.
      