
        Stephen Pierce Duggan, the founding chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a leader in the fight that preserved the scenic Storm King Mountain from development, died on Sunday at Cornwall Hospital in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. A longtime Cornwall resident, he was 89 and formerly lived in Manhattan as well.
        The fight over Storm King, a landmark towering over the Hudson River, was an important event in establishing modern environmental law. Mr. Duggan's role in pulling together money and influence for that effort eventually led him to help establish the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the most influential environmental advocacy groups.
        In the 1960's, air-conditioning and other large home appliances were proliferating in the New York City area. To meet the surging demand for electricity, the Consolidated Edison Company moved to build a power plant in Orange County, on the Hudson River and the mountain towering over it, famous as a subject for 19th-century writers and the painters of the Hudson River School.
        The project, announced by the utility in 1963, would have carved trenches for pumped storage pipelines up the mountainside. Still, most people in the area accepted the plan because it meant jobs and an improvement in the local economy.
        But Mr. Duggan, a litigator at the big Wall Street law firm Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, and his wife, Beatrice Abbott Duggan, set out to rally those who objected to the project. At first, few responded, even though the plant imperiled a striped-bass spawning area and Black Rock Forest, the nature preserve atop Storm King.
        Then the power company published a drawing that exaggerated the size of the project relative to its surroundings. The Duggans' telephone began to ring and soon they and other irate landowners signed on hikers' groups and conservationists.
        The objectors organized the Scenic Hudson Preservation Conference and took their case to public hearings. In 1965, they won a Federal court ruling that was a legal landmark: For the first time, a conservation group got the right to sue in the public interest and to be heard on license applications from utilities.
        Con Edison continued the battle but eventually abandoned the project years later. And Mr. Duggan emerged from the fight sure of the need for a permanent, national environmental organization to tackle such issues.
        In 1970, he, his wife and several others formed the Natural Resources Defense Council to marshal the law and research for environmental cases. As chairman for a decade, he led the council into such diverse areas as the Alaskan wilderness, the health of steelworkers, survival of the golden eagle, energy efficiency, chemical pollution and public health in the inner cities.
        In addition, he and his wife brought the council's experience to bear on environmental work on an international scale. At his death, he remained a trustee of the organization.
        A native of White Plains, Stephen Duggan graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College. He earned an M.A. at Columbia University in 1932 and an L.L.B. from its law school in 1936, and went into practice as a litigator in New York. He joined Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett in 1943, rose to senior partner and retired as head of its trust and estates department in 1976.
        He was a longtime director of the Institute for International Education, which his father founded. At various times he also served on the boards of Phillips Exeter, Storm King School, the Collegiate School, Vassar College, the New School for Social Research, the Walter Reade Foundation and Scenic Hudson.
        His wife died in 1996. He is survived by three sons, Stephen P. 3d of Cornwall, Peter M. of Charlotte, N.C., and Hayden A. of Gardner, Mass.; a daughter, Marianne Bell O'Brien of Jersey City; 12 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      