
        Bulldog Turner, the Chicago Bears Hall of Fame center and linebacker who played on four National Football League championship teams in the 1940's, died Friday at home in Gatesville, Tex. He was 79.
        Turner, who served as head coach of the New York Titans, the Jets' forerunners, in 1962, had been suffering from lung cancer, his family said.
        In an era when the Bears of George Halas were known as the Monsters of the Midway, players were expected to be versatile as well as rugged. Turner, an All-Pro six times in a 13-year career with the Bears, fit the mold perfectly.
        As the center in a then-novel T formation directed by quarterback Sid Luckman, he used his 6-foot-2-inch, 232-pound frame to provide powerful blocking. As a linebacker, he employed his quickness to pick off passes, snaring a league-leading eight interceptions in 1942. The only time he carried the football from scrimmage -- against a combined Steeler-Cardinal team in 1944 when the Bears' regular running backs had been ejected in a fight -- he ran 48 yards for a touchdown.
        ''Who knows what kind of player he would have been if he ever got to rest during a game,'' his teammate and the star lineman George Musso once said.
        Voted to the 1940's all-decade N.F.L. team by the Pro Football Hall of Fame, Turner was also something of a coach on the field. ''Bulldog knew what every player should do in his position on any given play,'' Bears running back Hugh Gallarneau recalled.
        A native of Sweetwater, Tex., Clyde Turner called himself Bulldog to create an aura of fierceness when he tried out for the football team at Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene. He became a Little All-American there and was the Bears' No. 1 draft pick in 1940. But the Detroit Lions also wanted him and were fined $5,000 by the N.F.L. for tampering when they tried to sign him.
        Turner's rookie season concluded with the Bears' 73-0 drubbing of the Washington Redskins in the N.F.L. championship game. In the third quarter, he intercepted a pass and ran it back for a touchdown. With the Bears scoring 11 touchdowns and their place-kickers drilling so many extra points into the stands, the teams were running out of footballs. Turner recalled that Halas asked him to snap the ball wildly after one score so they would not be minus yet another ball. ''I told Halas I wasn't going to make a bad snap, not in a championship game,'' Turner remembered. He snapped the football perfectly but the holder, evidently under orders as well, fumbled it.
        In the 1946 title game against the Giants, Turner's block helped spring Luckman for a 19-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter, a memorable bootleg play that sent the Bears to a 24-14 victory.
        Upon retiring as a player after the 1952 season, Turner became an assistant coach under Halas for four years. In 1962, he was named coach of the Titans, succeeding Sammy Baugh, the former star quarterback of the Redskins who had preceded him by two years at Sweetwater High School.
        When the Titans' owner, Harry Wismer, ran out of money to pay his players and they didn't want to suit up for a late-season game at Denver, Turner promised them they would eventually get their checks. They voted to play and beat the Broncos, 46-45. The league assumed the payroll and the team finished at 5-9, losing its final three games. The next year, the franchise became the Jets under new ownership, and Turner was replaced by Weeb Ewbank.
        Turner was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1966 and his No. 66 was retired by the Bears.
        He is survived by two daughters, Pat Turner of Gatesville and Sandra Shaffer of Big Spring, Tex.; a sister, Ilene Hairston of Gatesville; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        Turner's favorite moment came in the 1947 regular season when he intercepted a pass by Baugh and zigged and zagged 96 yards for a touchdown with Baugh draped over him for the final 7 yards.
        As Turner recalled it: ''I looked up and said: 'Sammy Baugh, I can outrun you. How did you get back there?' And he said, 'Well, Bulldog, you just cut back one time too many.' ''
      