
        Tex Johnston, a storied test pilot who ushered in the age of jet travel with such a heart-stopping flourish that some people in Seattle and the world of aviation are still shaking their heads, died on Oct. 29 at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Wash. He was 84 and was recalled as the man who blithely barrel-rolled the nation's first jetliner into aviation history.
        His family said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.
        With a quarter-million spectators gathered on Lake Washington for the  Gold Cup hydroplane races and air show at the 1955 Seattle Seafair, no one was expecting anything special from the Boeing Airplane Company's chief test pilot that August afternoon, least of all the Boeing executives clustered on a barge surrounded by the heads of virtually every major airline in the world to watch a routine flyover by a prototype of the company's new aircraft.
        For one thing, Mr. Johnston, or Alvin Melvin Johnston, as the drawling test pilot was known to virtually no one, had already had his brush with aviation glory. Eight years earlier as chief test pilot for Bell Aviation, the lanky pilot in his signature  custom-made cowboy boots had tested the company's famous X-1 rocket plane, becoming first to fly the B-29-launched craft using all four rockets and taking it, he later recalled, to Mach .99, a whisper shy of the sound barrier. He held off because the Air Force, which owned the plane, had insisted that a military pilot have the honor of being the first to fly at supersonic speed, as indeed Capt. Chuck Yeager did in 1947.
        If he had been disappointed at missing out on that bit of aviation history, Mr. Johnston didn't let on.
        After all, what had kept him in the air almost constantly since he soloed at the age of 15 in an open cockpit Waco monoplane was not the chance for glory but the sheer, exuberant joy he had first tasted at 11 one summer afternoon in 1925. On that day a barnstorming pilot landed a World War I Jenny in a cow pasture next to the Johnston family farm in Admire, Kans., outside Emporia, and took the youngster on a short hop that left him hooked on flying forever.
        As he recalled in his 1991 book, ''Tex Johnston: Jet-Age Test Pilot,''  he had been so smitten that he grabbed the pilot's hand and blurted out: ''I love you. I'm going to be just like you.''
        It took some doing, but by the time he joined Boeing in 1949, Mr. Johnston had long since won his aviation spurs, performing aerial stunts for a flying circus at 19, training pilots and ferrying airplanes from factories to military airfields in World War II, and even earning a few footnotes to aviation history. He became the first pilot to fly the famous Bell XP-59A, the first American jet, above 40,000 feet, and set a world closed course speed record of 376.4 miles an hour in winning the 1946 Thompson Trophy race in Cleveland in a modified P-39.
        As Boeing's chief of test flights he had reached the pinnacle of his profession, supervising a staff of 600, including 15 other pilots, while continuing his personal achievements, among them flying the first B-47 and the first B-52 on their maiden flights.
        On Aug. 7, 1955, the day Mr. Johnston was asked to fly over Lake Washington in a a giant four-engine Boeing jet prototype designated 367-80 and known as the Dash 80, Boeing was host of the annual meetings of the International Air Transport Association and the American Society of Aeronautical Engineers, and virtually every potential customer for its planes was represented. Boeing executives understandably wanted them to get a good look at the plane on which the company had staked its future, investing a quarter of its corporate net worth without a single advance order.
        Well, they did. Mr. Johnston pulled on his cowboy boots, climbed into the Dash 80 and roared in low across the lake. At 400 feet above the water and at a speed of more than 400 miles an hour, the Dash 80 suddenly started climbing and began rotating on its axis. Its long, swept-back wings described a giant spiral around the body of the speeding plane, which flew briefly upside down in its slow, languid roll. Then, just in case no one had noticed, he did it again.
        On the barge, aviation executives gasped. The Boeing president, William Allen, asked a friend with a heart ailment for his pills. His distress was understandable. Barrel rolls performed by small fighter planes and the like were common enough, but no one had ever seen one executed by a 128-foot-long, 160,000-pound plane with four heavy jet engines and a 130-foot wing span.
        But then, no one had ever seen a Boeing 707, as the Dash 80's offspring would soon be known. a plane whose pilot had participated in every facet of its design and construction and knew, as those gasping below could not, that it could well withstand the surprisingly minimal stresses caused by the demonstration.
        Or, as an aviation friend reassuringly told Mr. Allen, ''Tex has just sold your plane for you.''
        Indeed, by the time Mr. Johnston set a transcontinental speed record in 1957 of 612 miles an hour flying the Dash 80 from Seattle to Baltimore in 3 hours, 48 minutes, the orders were  pouring in, as they continued to do over the next two decades.
        Mr. Johnston was inducted into the Aviation Hall of Fame in Dayton, Ohio, in 1993.
        He is survived by a son, Gary, of Edmonds, Wash.; two daughters, Judy Alexander of Bellevue, Wash., and Barbara Fowler of Lompoc, Calif.; nine grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
      