
        William Curry Moloney, who studied and treated blood diseases well before hematology became a medical specialty, died on Nov. 3 in Boston at Brigham and Women's Hospital, where he was a former director of hematology. He was 91 and lived in Chatham, Mass.
        Dr. Moloney was one of the first to use chemotherapy for treating leukemia and lymphoma. He was an early contributor to the development of specific diagnostic tests, some of which remain in use today.
        Born in Boston, he worked his way through Tufts College and Tufts Medical School and started his career as a family doctor in Jamaica Plain, Mass. Such conditions as anemias, bleeding problems and leukemia soon absorbed him. He began to carry along what he called his ''lab equipment'' in his black bag and became known as a leading blood consultant in and around Boston.
        Driving his old blue Dodge, he administered Rh tests and made bone marrow examinations at many New England hospitals using materials he kept in a cigar box secured with an elastic band. He also established  blood banks throughout the region.
        He was a recognized authority on safe procedures for blood transfusions, and his expertise in blood banks stood him in good stead in World War II, when he oversaw transfusions to wounded soldiers.
        After the war, in the early 1950's, he directed research for the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission in Hiroshima, Japan, and, later in the Marshall Islands, studied the effects of errant radiation and the mechanisms that produce leukemia.
        Dr. Moloney joined the faculty of Tufts Medical School in 1934 and rose to clinical professor. He moved to Harvard Medical School with the same rank in 1971 and reached emeritus status there in 1974. He was named chief of hematology at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, now Brigham and Women's, in 1966 and continued his bone-marrow and leukemia research there until 1997.
        Dr. Moloney is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Chatham, and William, of New Bedford, Mass.; a daughter, Patricia McGrath of Keene, N.H.; 24 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      