
        Laurence Owen Vine Gandar, the South African newspaper editor credited with bringing investigative journalism to a country that desperately needed it, died Saturday in Pietermaritzburg.
        He was 82, and had been suffering from Parkinson's Disease.
        As editor and editor-in-chief of The Rand Daily Mail from 1957 to 1969, Mr. Gandar was the first to turn a major South African newspaper into an instrument for crusading for human rights rather than a tool for selling advertising.
        Doing so eventually cost him his job at the Johannesburg paper, after he oversaw a powerful series of articles, beginning in 1965, about appalling conditions for blacks in South African prisons.
        When he defied a police demands that he not publish his articles, his paper suffered repeated raids, telephone taps and prosecution under the Prisons Act, one of several laws that essentially made it illegal to criticize the police, the army or prison administrators without their permission. During the trial, witnesses disappeared, and he and his reporter, Benjamin Pogrund, were convicted and fined.
        As a result, wrote Rex Gibson, The Mail's night editor at the time and eventually one of Mr. Gandar's successors in the top job, ''the press as a whole had been deterred from publishing prison revelations and Gandar had signed his own professional death warrant. As soon as it was decently possible, Gandar was fired.''
        A host of journalists who eventually became famous for reporting on apartheid said, though, that they drew their first inspiration and tutelage from Mr. Gandar.
        He was also the first editor to make a subtle change in his pages that infuriated thousands of white readers. He stopped referring to blacks as ''natives'' and instead called them ''Africans.''
        Known as Laurie, Mr. Gandar was described by other editors as reserved and laconic, going into battle with a shrug rather than a flourish.
        ''There was an aura of cool remoteness which appeared to defy attempts by his staff to get to know him better and which, on occasion, infuriated the authorities, who were trying to intimidate the English-language press in general -- and The Rand Daily Mail in particular,'' Raymond Louw wrote in a memoir published today in the national Sunday Times.
        Mr. Louw, who edited the Mail from 1966 to 1977, also said that Mr. Gandar's writing helped condition reluctant whites to the inevitability and justice of majority rule. ''His liberal philosophy of nondiscrimination, of freedom, tolerance and justice for all helped prevent this country from sliding into civil war,'' added Mr. Louw, who is now publisher of a respected newsletter, Southern Africa Report.
        While he was considered ahead of his time, Mr. Gandar's editing was in keeping with the mores of his day. Following the 1960 Sharpeville massacre, in which panicky policemen opened fire on a crowd of 5,000 protesters surrounding their station, killing 69 and wounding 178, Mr. Gandar obtained a dramatic photograph showing bodies stretched out as far as the camera could see.
        In those days, pictures of corpses seldom appeared, and Mr. Gandar also worried the sight would provoke another riot, wrote Harvey Tyson in his history of the South African press, ''Editors Under Fire.'' Mr. Gandar did not use the picture.
        The Rand Daily Mail, which was indirectly controlled by Harry Oppenheimer, then head of the DeBeers Consolidated Mines Ltd. and Anglo-American Corporation, was closed in 1985, at the height of the Government's efforts to throttle dissent.
        Mr. Oppenheimer had practiced a hands-off attitude toward the paper editorially, but also sat by as it suffered deep financial losses, and ultimately he just let it fold, Mr. Louw said in a recent, rather uncomplimentary contribution to a page of 90th birthday tributes to Mr. Oppenheimer.
        Mr. Gandar was born in Durban, South Africa in 1915, studied at Natal University and reported for small newspapers. During World War II, he fought as an infantryman in North Africa and Italy. In 1953, he joined the Anglo-American Corporation's public relations department, from which he was recruited for the editorship of The Mail.
        He is survived by a grandson, Owen.
      