
        Peter Cotes, a British theatrical producer and director who staged the first production of Agatha Christie's ''Mousetrap'' in 1952, died on Tuesday at his home in Chipping Norton in the Cotswolds. He was 86.
        ''The Mousetrap,'' now in its 46th consecutive year in London, is the longest-running show of all time. It made Christie a rich woman and Mr. Cotes a rich man, although his name was often overlooked when credits for the play, a murder mystery, were mentioned. Wisely, Mr. Cotes demanded a royalty of 1.5 percent rather than a flat fee for his work as director.
        The Christie play was unquestionably his most successful effort, but it was only one stop in a significant career that often defied censorship. In 1946, he presented ''Pick-Up Girl,'' an American play dealing with venereal disease, at a small, private London theater club. Because of its subject matter, the play had not been licensed for commercial production. Queen Mary, the Queen Mother, came to see it, and after the performance asked Mr. Cotes where he found ''those wonderful actors.'' Helped by that royal recommendation, the play was licensed and moved to the West End.
        Mr. Cotes was born in Maidenhead as Sydney Arthur Rembrandt Boulting. His younger brothers, John and Roy, became the Boulting Brothers of English films. He took the name Cotes from a childhood home called Northcotes and used it as a pseudonym to show independence from his brothers.
        He began his career as an actor, working in films as well as onstage. After World War II, he was active as a producer and director, often working with his second wife, the actress Joan Miller (who died in 1988). In 1948, he founded a theater company, the Peter Cotes Players, in Manchester.
        His commitment to outspoken drama and his antipathy for the star system were integral to his book ''No Star Nonsense.'' He also collaborated on ''The Little Fellow,'' a biography of Charlie Chaplin. In addition, he wrote books about crime and was a television producer and director.
        In the early 1950's, he staged private productions in London of ''The Children's Hour'' and ''A Pin to See the Peepshow'' (about an English murder case), avoiding censorship by the Lord Chamberlain by presenting the plays privately in a theater club. In 1953 he brought ''A Pin to See the Peepshow'' to Broadway, with his wife in the leading role. The show closed after one performance, in direct contrast to ''The Mousetrap.''
        Correction:  November 19, 1998, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the theater producer and director Peter Cotes yesterday misstated the date of his death. It was Nov. 10, not this Tuesday.
      