
        Weeb Ewbank, who coached the Baltimore Colts of 1958 and the New York Jets of 1968 to pro football championships in monumental title games, died yesterday at his home in Oxford, Ohio. He was 91.
        Ewbank, who attended the Jets-Colts game in Indianapolis last Sunday, was the only coach with title winners in both the National Football League and the American Football League. That distinction has dimmed over time because the N.F.L. has been the only major league for decades. But in the 1960's there were two competitive leagues, American and National, and the Jets were the first from the A.F.L. to win the interleague championship, the Super Bowl.
        That happened in Miami on Jan. 12, 1969, and it was certainly the highlight of Wilbur Charles Ewbank's 45 years as a football coach. The Jets of the A.F.L. beat the Colts of the N.F.L., 16-7, in what came to be regarded as pro football's greatest upset. It also established the competitive credibility of the Super Bowl.
        The outcome of Super Bowl III linked Ewbank's name forever with Joe Namath, the Jets' flamboyant quarterback who guaranteed a victory, although coach and athlete -- 36 years apart in age -- had little in common.
        Namath at first laughed at Ewbank and once during a game described him as ''you little butterball.'' This was when the round coach, 5 feet 7 inches and 195 pounds, was knocked into the mud twice by a cluster of players.
        By the time of their Super Bowl season, the playboy Namath had nothing but respect for his coach, the many fines forgotten.
        Ewbank did, however, run a loose ship. He did not care about Namath's Fu Manchu mustache, or various hair preferences of the other players. Or even if they occasionally stayed out late.
        ''As long as they produce,'' he said. ''Their job is to play football.''
        Ewbank had easily convinced the Jets that the Colts, who had lost only one game and were favored by 18 points, could be beaten. And his game plan exploited a defect on the right side of the Baltimore defense.
        Nervous during the contest, Ewbank continuously chewed ice cubes and spit out the fragments.
        Ewbank died on the 30th anniversary of a game that season that, in contrast to the magnificent Super Bowl upset, provided unhappy memories. This was the so-called ''Heidi game,'' in which NBC television cut away from the Jets-Raiders game in Oakland to show a made-for-television ''Heidi'' movie with the Jets leading by 32-29 and 65 seconds remaining. The Raiders went on to score two touchdowns and won by 43-32. Some fans didn't know the final score until they watched the 11 o'clock news.
        An hour after the game, Ewbank telephoned his wife, Lucy, back in New York.
        ''Congratulations,'' she told him.
        ''For what?'' he asked.
        ''On winning,'' she replied.
        ''We lost the game,'' he told her.
        In Ewbank's remaining five seasons as the Jets' coach, they never played in another championship game and had only one winning campaign. His overall head-coaching record for 20 pro seasons, 9 with the Colts and 11 with the Jets, was modest -- 134 victories, 130 defeats, 7 ties.
        In addition to his two best-known title teams, he coached the Colts to the 1959 N.F.L. championship, when they defeated the Giants in the title game for a second straight year.
        With the Colts and the Jets, Ewbank inherited losing teams and rebuilt them into championship ones. It took five seasons in Baltimore, and he finally achieved his goal thanks to the emergence of another remarkable quarterback, Johnny Unitas.
        The Colts, at the end of the 1958 season, beat the New York Giants for the N.F.L. championship in the first sudden-death overtime game, something that helped project pro football into the nation's consciousness. The final score was 23-17 and the common reference became ''the greatest game ever played.''
        The modest Ewbank never made such claims. He took his triumphs calmly, and after the Jets' Super Bowl victory, his midfield comment to Don Shula, the losing coach, was almost an apology: ''We had all the breaks.''
        Nor did Ewbank publicly gloat about defeating the team owned by the man who had dismissed him six years before, Carroll Rosenbloom.
        Ewbank had been a head coach at University High School in Oxford, Ohio, 1930-1942, and at Washington University in St. Louis, in 1947 and 1948.
        World War II gave Ewbank the opportunity to move into big-time football when he joined the Navy. He was assigned to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station outside Chicago where he was an assistant coach under Paul Brown.
        Ewbank and Brown had been college teammates, pint-size quarterbacks, at Miami University in Ohio. Again he was one of Brown's assistant coaches with the Cleveland Browns, during 1949-1953.
        Ewbank was voted to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1978, five years after his retirement. But the one he boasted about was the Indiana Sports Hall of Fame, which quietly took in this native of Richmond, Ind., in 1974.
        It was in Richmond, as a child, that Ewbank became Weeb because that was how his brother pronounced his given name, Wilbur.
        Ewbank, who lived in retirement at his college town, Oxford, Ohio, seemed the old coach once more on Sunday, when he attended the Jets-Colts game. ''The coverage was terrible,'' he remarked, criticizing the Colts' special teams on a 104-yard runback by the Jets' Aaron Glenn following a field-goal attempt.
        For years, Ewbank had a full schedule of appearances at football and charitable affairs. Almost always he had a shepherd, Lucy, his wife of 72 years, who survives him along with three daughters, eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      