
        Eddie Elias, a lawyer who founded the Professional Bowlers Association in 1958 and later represented sports and entertainment celebrities, died on Sunday at Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital. He was 69.
        The P.B.A. said the cause was complications of pneumonia. Mr. Elias suffered a stroke in 1995 and had been confined to a wheelchair since.
        After the stroke, he moved from Akron, Ohio, to Naples while Eddie Elias Enterprises, his sports-marketing firm, remained in Akron. The firm's clients included Don Carter, Dick Weber and Carmen Salvino from bowling; Tommy Bolt, Chi Chi Rodriguez, Fuzzy Zoeller, Gary McCord, Ken Venturi and Bob Murphy from golf; Rony Seikaly from basketball and Ralph Nader, Phil Donahue, Marlo Thomas, Chris Schenkel and Phyllis George.
        Mr. Elias was best known for his role in lifting bowling from a blue-collar recreational activity in dingy, smoke-filled alleys to television's second-longest-running professional sport behind college football.
        While working his way through Case Western Reserve Law School in Cleveland, he was a radio and television producer and performer at WAKR in Akron and WESW in Cleveland. One day, on ''The Eddie Elias Show'' in Akron, he was interviewing Don Carter, perhaps the most celebrated bowler ever, and Dick Hoover, who had just won the All-Star tournament, the predecessor of bowling's United States Open.
        At a time when 10 percent of the American recreational dollar was being spent on bowling, Carter and Hoover bemoaned the absence of an organization that could run a tournament circuit. Mr. Elias decided to change that, and at the 1958 American Bowling Congress Masters tournament he persuaded 33 professional bowlers to put up $50 each to start the P.B.A.
        As the P.B.A.'s legal counsel, Mr. Elias nurtured the organization and the sport. In 1965, he persuaded the maker of Firestone tires to sponsor bowling's most elite annual competition, the Tournament of Champions, one of the first corporate sponsorships of a national sports event.
        Early in the 1960's, television had difficulty selling advertising time for sports events. Mr. Elias realized that bowling needed television more than television needed bowling, and under his guidance the P.B.A. started selling at least 80 percent of the advertising time on its own. With those contracts in his hands, Mr. Elias then negotiated with the television networks to carry the tournaments.
        ''It really started out of necessity,'' Mr. Elias said of the sell-your-own philosophy. ''Without TV, we were out of business. But I knew a network couldn't refuse something with most of the ad time already sold.''
        Mr. Elias also marketed such television series as ''Jackpot Bowling,'' ''Make That Spare'' and, with Marlo Thomas, ''That Girl.'' As Mr. Donahue, the talk-show host, said, ''Long before free agency, long before pro sports rose to billion-dollar levels, there was Big E, bargaining his heart out for big and small clients alike.''
        Edward George Elias was born Dec. 12, 1928 in Akron, and at 6 feet 2 inches he played baseball and basketball at the University of Akron. He was a member of the A.B.C. Hall of Fame and the P.B.A. Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Peggy Emerson; two daughters, Rainy of Akron and Annie of Chicago, and three sisters, Jackie Wilson, Norma Balaj and Nancy Stevens, all of Akron.
      