
        Patrick Clancy, who helped start a folk revival as a founding member of the Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem, died on Nov. 11 at his home in Carrick-on-Suir, County Tipperary, Ireland. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said Bill Haller, his son-in-law.
        As the eldest of the Clancy Brothers, Mr. Clancy toured the world singing Irish songs, often with thousands of audience members singing along. Although the Clancy Brothers got started as Irish expatriates in New York, where they were part of the Greenwich Village folk revival of the 1950's and 60's, the group's rowdy, good-humored performances created an enduring image of Irish tradition and spurred a rediscovery of folk styles back home in Ireland. Mr. Clancy also started a folk-music label, Tradition, that documented Appalachian music, blues, Celtic and ethnic music.
        Mr. Clancy was born in Carrick, in rural Tipperary, where he and his brothers soaked up traditional music. During World War II he went to England to join the Royal Air Force, and worked as an airplane mechanic in England and India. After the war  he and his brother Tom, who had sung pop music in Ireland, came to the United States. They worked at a brewery in Newark and sold insurance in Cleveland before moving to  New York.
        In postwar bohemian Greenwich Village, they acted in and produced Off Broadway plays, including Sean O'Casey's ''Plough and Stars'' at the Cherry Lane Theater. Joining the scene around the White Horse Tavern they became friendly with such authors as Dylan Thomas, Delmore Schwartz and James Baldwin and musicians like Woody Guthrie.
        In the early 1950's, Patrick Clancy also assembled Irish music for Folkways Records and the early Elektra label, and he started his own label, Tradition, in 1956. His brother Liam arrived in the United States that year, collecting Appalachian songs and also settling in New York. The three brothers began singing Irish songs at parties and the White Horse, quickly developing a local following.
        They were joined by another Irish expatriate, Tommy Makem, and started recording for Tradition in 1959.
        They traveled the folk-club circuit and performed at Newport Folk Festivals, and a 1961 appearance on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' brought them a national following.
        In concert, they wore Arran wool sweaters and sang rollicking versions of rebel songs, drinking songs and love songs -- among them ''The Jug of Punch'' and ''Carrickfergus'' -- interspersed with tall tales and poetry recitations. Columbia Records signed the group in 1961, and it eventually made about 40 albums.
        Patrick Clancy returned to live in Carrick in 1964, and bought a dairy farm. But he continued to perform frequently with his brothers. After 1969, the group's lineup fluctuated, sometimes including a fourth Clancy brother, Robert, and later a nephew, Robbie O'Connell. Patrick Clancy gave his last performance in July in Carrick.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; his brothers, Liam and Robert; two sisters, Peg and Joan; five children, Leish, of Philadelphia, Rory, of Carrick, Orla of the Netherlands, Maura,  of Carlow, Ireland, and Conor, of Dublin, and three grandchildren.
      