
        Alan J. Pakula, a director of many psychologically penetrating and celebrated films including ''Sophie's Choice,'' ''All the President's Men'' and ''Klute,'' died yesterday in a freak accident on the Long Island Expressway. He was 70 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.
        Mr. Pakula was killed when a metal pipe smashed through the windshield of his black Volvo station wagon and struck him in the head at 11:15 A.M., Detective Sgt. Brian Traynor, a spokesman for the Suffolk County Police, said. The accident happened about a quarter mile east of the Melville exit on the Long Island Expressway.
        Mr. Pakula's car swerved across a service road and hit a fence, the police said. He was taken to North Shore University Hospital at Plainview, in Nassau County, where he was pronounced dead at 12:22 P.M.
        The police do not know where the seven-foot-long pipe came from, Sergeant Traynor said, but believe that it was already in the roadway when another car gave it a glancing blow, sending it through Mr. Pakula's windshield.
        Mr. Pakula was on his way to his home in East Hampton to work on his next screenplay, ''No Ordinary Time,'' about the White House during the time of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, his family said.
        Mr. Pakula, a tall, bearded, somewhat professorial man, produced or directed more than 20 movies in his career, many of them richly praised, but they had a knack for winning accolades more for his actors than for himself. That was one of the reasons he was occasionally referred to as an actor's director.
        He produced ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' in 1962; it won Oscars for Gregory Peck and the screenwriter, Horton Foote. A 1963 film he helped produce, ''Love With the Proper Stranger,'' won several Academy Award nominations.
        Liza Minnelli won an Oscar nomination for her role in the first picture he directed, ''The Sterile Cuckoo,'' in 1969. In other movies he directed, Jane Fonda won an Oscar for her starring role as a disillusioned call girl in Mr. Pakula's moody detective thriller, the 1971 ''Klute,'' and Meryl Streep won one of her Oscars for her role as Sophie, a tormented Nazi concentration camp survivor, in the 1982 ''Sophie's Choice.''
        ''All the President's Men,'' Mr. Pakula's 1976 dramatization of how two Washington Post reporters, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, uncovered the Watergate scandal, won four Oscars: for the actor Jason Robards, for the screenwriter William Goldman and for art direction and sound. Mr. Pakula was nominated for an Oscar for ''All the President's Men'' and for his screenplay for ''Sophie's Choice,'' but he never won.
        ''He was incredibly supportive and would give you the courage you needed,'' Candice Bergen, who starred in a 1979 comedy Mr. Pakula directed, ''Starting Over,'' said. ''He made it safe for me to make a total fool of myself.'' She added that Mr. Pakula frequently removed his shoes on the set and that when a scene seemed to work: ''You'd get a hop. The highest accolade would be to get two hops.''
        Harrison Ford, who had starred in Mr. Pakula's last movie, ''The Devil's Own,'' called Mr. Pakula ''a natural guide to inner realms. As a writer and a director, he was always concerned with evolving emotionally. He was an elegant man.''
        Mr. Pakula made different kinds of movies, all of them intended to entertain, but the thread connecting many of them was a style that emphasized and explored the psychology and motivations of his characters. The first film he produced, in 1957, was ''Fear Strikes Out,'' starring Anthony Perkins, a study of the  talented but troubled baseball star Jimmy Piersall, whose career was thwarted by his mental illness.
        Mr. Pakula's interest in such issues was highlighted when one of his stepsons, Robert Boorstin, a former reporter for The New York Times and now an official at the United States Treasury Department, spoke publicly about his depression and sought to educate the public on the illness. Mr. Pakula participated in fund-raisers and spoke openly about his stepson's battle with the disease and the impact on his own life.
        Mr. Pakula also spoke in interviews about his fascination with psychology, with how men in particular deal with their fears. ''A man who is in control, and inside there is a frightened child,'' he said in an interview several years ago with The New York Times. ''That interests me. Why? You can draw your own conclusions.''
        The most autobiographical film he made was ''See You in the Morning,'' which was about a divorced man like himself, and his marriage to a widow with several children. In fact, Mr. Pakula's second marriage was to Hannah Boorstin, now Pakula, an author of historical biographies whose first husband had died, leaving her with three children. The man in the film is a New York psychiatrist.
        Julia Roberts, who appeared in his movie ''The Pelican Brief,'' said: ''He would allow you your time and the freedom to find things in the material. He knew when to give me my space or when to squeeze my hand. He was a psychiatrist and a director.''
        Mr. Pakula was born in the Bronx on April 7, 1928. His father was the co-owner of a printing business. Mr. Pakula once said that the months in between his graduation from high school and college altered his life. He worked at the Leland Hayward Theatrical Agency and fell in love with show business.
        He attended Yale University and majored in drama. His first job in Hollywood was at Warner Brothers in the cartoon department. He moved on to producing and only began directing in 1969.
        Mr. Pakula's first marriage, to the actress Hope Lange, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Hannah Pakula, three stepchildren and five grandchildren.
        A Filmmaker's Many Roles
        Alan J. Pakula directed 16 films during his career. Here is a selective filmography.  The Devil's Own (1997)  The Pelican Brief (1993)  Consenting Adults (1992)  Presumed Innocent (1990)  See You in the Morning (1989)  Dream Lover (1986)  Sophie's Choice (1982)  Rollover (1981)  Starting Over (1979)  Comes a Horseman (1978)  All the President's Men (1976)  The Parallax View (1974)  Klute (1971)  The Sterile Cuckoo (1969)
        Mr. Pakula also produced several films, including the following:  The Sterile Cuckoo (1969)  Up the Down Staircase (1967)  Baby the Rain Must Fall (1965)  Inside Daisy Clover (1965)  Love With the Proper Stranger (1963)  To Kill a Mockingbird (1962)
        Mr. Pakula wrote several of his films:  The Pelican Brief (1993)  Presumed Innocent (1990)  See You in the Morning (1989)  Sophie's Choice (1982)
        Correction:  December 7, 1998, Monday  An obituary of the director Alan J. Pakula on Nov. 20 misstated the Academy Award history of the 1962 film ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' which he produced. The film won three Oscars, not two (for black and white art direction as well as for its screenplay and for Gregory Peck), and it received five other nominations, not three.
      