
        Dr. Tetsuya Fujita, a meteorologist who devised the standard scale for rating the severity of tornadoes and discovered the role of sudden violent down-bursts of air that sometimes cause airplanes to crash, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago.  He was 78.
        Known as Ted, the Tornado Man or Mr. Tornado, Dr. Fujita once told an interviewer, ''anything that moves I am interested in.'' A colleague said he followed that interest to the last, though he had been ill for two years and bedridden recently.
        ''He did research from his bed until the very end,'' said James Partacz, a research meteorologist at the University of Chicago Wind Research Laboratory, of which Dr. Fujita was the director.
        With his wife, Sumiko, Dr. Fujita  devised the Fujita scale of tornado wind speed and damage in 1951. It classifies tornadoes on a hierarchy beginning with the designation F0, or ''light,'' (with winds of 40 to 72 miles per hour) to F6, or ''inconceivable'' (with winds of 319 to 379 m.p.h.).
        In the 1970's, he collaborated in the development of a sensing array, a rugged cylinder of instruments carried by tornado chasers on the ground who would anchor the cylinder in the path of an approaching tornado, then flee. The instrument package would record pressure, temperature, electrical phenomena and wind.
        Less well known than his work with tornadoes was Dr. Fujita's discovery of a type of wind called ''micro bursts,'' a small, localized downdraft that spreads out on or near the ground to produce 150-m.p.h. gusts that can knock airplanes out of the sky. The discovery stemmed from his investigation of an Eastern Airlines crash in 1975 at Kennedy International Airport in New York.
        The patterns of trees uprooted by tornadoes helped Dr. Fujita to refine the theory of micro bursts, as did similar patterns he had seen when he visited Nagasaki and Hiroshima, Japan, in 1945, just weeks after the atomic bombs were dropped there, to observe the effects of shock waves on trees and buildings.
        Dr. Fujita was born in Kitakyushu City, Japan, on Oct. 23, 1920. He graduated from the Meiji College of Technology in 1943 with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering, became an assistant professor there and earned a doctorate from Tokyo University in 1953.
        In 1947, after observing a severe thunderstorm from a mountain observatory in Japan, he wrote a report speculating on downdrafts of air within the storm. He sent the report to Horace Byers, chairman of the University of Chicago's meteorology department, who ultimately invited Dr. Fujita to Chicago and became his mentor.
        Dr. Fujita was fascinated by statistics -- any statistics. For years, he charted the Dow Jones average and the Consumer Price Index from the year of his birth, as well as his own blood pressure.
        In meteorology, colleagues said, he had a gift for insight into the workings of the atmosphere.
        ''He often had ideas way before the rest of us could even imagine them,'' said James Wilson, a senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo.
        Although he built a machine that could create miniature tornadoes in the laboratory, Dr. Fujita shunned computers. ''He used to say that the computer doesn't understand these things,'' said Duane Stiegler, a Chicago meteorologist who worked with Dr. Fujita until his death.
        Dr. Fujita is survived by his wife and a son, Kazuya, a geology professor at Michigan State University in East Lansing.
      