
        Yefim Geller, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster whose penetrating technical analysis, inspired innovations and brilliant play helped the former Soviet Union almost totally dominate international chess for decades, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Moscow. He was 73.
        The cause was complications of a long series of illnesses that included prostate cancer and heart disease, his family said.
        For those with only a cursory knowledge of the ancient game of chess, it may seem surprising that a man who never won a world championship and whose most memorable public role was serving as Boris Spassky's beleaguered second in his 1972 world championship loss to Bobby Fischer, should be such a revered figure in chess circles.
        That is at least partly because to its true believers chess is more than a sport -- both an art and a science, if not an actual religion -- and if Mr. Geller failed to achieve ultimate headline success, he was a feared attacker and discovered many innovations in venerable openings. His book, ''The Application of Chess Theory,'' was reissued in paperback by Scribner's in 1995.
        During a career in which he won the Soviet championship twice (1955 and 1979) and was a candidate to challenge the world champion six times, Mr. Geller also established an enviable personal record: a lifetime tournament edge over four world champions, Mikhail Botvinnik, Tigran Petrosian and Vasily Smyslov.
        And in a satisfying personal triumph, Mr. Geller also has a winning edge (five victories, three losses, two draws) over Bobby Fischer himself.
        A native of Odessa who served in the army in World War II and obtained a degree in economics from the University of Odessa, Mr. Geller was a late bloomer as a chess player. Like many in a country where chess is as popular as, say, basketball is in the United States, he learned chess as a child but did not take it seriously until college.
        His other passion was basketball;  though he was a short, stocky fellow built more along the lines of a wrestler he was a sure-handed star on a powerful Odessa team. Nevertheless, in a reflection of the Soviet Union's reverence for chess, his basketball coach, a chess enthusiast, urged him to concentrate on chess.
        The results of his new single-minded pursuit were immediate. Making his major tournament debut in the 1949 Soviet championships while still a candidate master, he led until a final round loss dropped him to a tie for third, but his showing catapulted him into the pampered top rank of Soviet players.
        Within a few years Mr. Geller, who became an international grandmaster in 1952, had a spacious house outside Moscow in Peredelkino, the  artists' and writers' colony, and was a familiar figure at the elegant Central Chess Club in Moscow.
        From the beginning, Mr. Geller was known for his often brilliant, sometimes reckless combinations and all-or-nothing slashing attacks, a style that sometimes cost him victories in games that came down to plodding positional battles that tried his patience. In time Mr. Geller learned to moderate his fervor for attack and obtain more consistent results, but it is a continuing tribute to his youthful daring that in winning his first Soviet championship in 1955 he became the only Soviet champion who has ever won the title while losing five games.
        In one of the more bizarre episodes of his career, during the 1972 world championship in Iceland, it fell to Mr. Geller to issue a statement suggesting that Mr. Fischer's supporters might be using ''electronic devices and a chemical substance'' to weaken Mr. Spassky's playing ability. It is assumed that the statement was dictated by the Moscow authorities to prepare the Soviet people for  Mr. Spassky's eventual loss.
        In a crucial game Mr. Spassky, playing a familiar Queen's Gambit defense, failed to make an innovative move Mr. Geller had discovered.
        Mr. Spassky lost the game, but a year later, playing the same line (against a weaker player, of course), Mr. Geller finally got a chance to make the new move and won the game decisively. The innovation was later hailed as one of the year's most brilliant.
        He is survived by his wife, Oxana, and a son, Alexander.
      