
        William French Githens, a newsreel pioneer and tennis-playing society figure, died on Nov. 10 at a hospice near his retirement home in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and is credited with opening the world's first all-newsreel movie theater in 1929.
        In a democratic nation famous for the fluid movement between classes, it is rare to catch a glimpse of the precise moment of social elevation, which is why it is too bad that Mr. Githens did not have his trusty Eyemo portable movie camera with him that evening in 1927 when he presented himself at the royal penthouse suite of the Savoy Plaza Hotel on Fifth Avenue.
        Invited by a friend to join his family for dinner, Mr. Githens, then 21,  had reason to feel self-conscious as he arrived at the hotel wearing his new double-breasted dinner jacket.
        Not that he had anything to be ashamed of. As the son of a New York City fire captain, he had graduated from Columbia that year with both a bachelor's degree and a master's in business administration. In addition, he had an easy charm and had mastered the society game of tennis so well that he had made the Columbia team.
        He had also demonstrated a flair for business by acquiring an early Eyemo in 1924. He used it to make films of Columbia football games and then charged admission to show them, netting him $400 a game, or about $4,000 in 1998 dollars.
        But for all his achievements, Mr. Githens was out of his social league this December night. For his tennis friend, McClure Meredith Howland, was the stepson of Ogden H. Hammond, a Civil War general's son, who had made a fortune in banking, insurance and real estate and was the  United States Ambassador to Spain.
        Unaware that the evening would alter the course of his life, Mr. Githens was greeted at the penthouse door by Mr. Howland and his 15-year-old stepbrother, Oggie Hammond, and led into the enormous living room to meet Oggie's sisters, Mary and Millicent Hammond, and their first cousin, Margaret Starr.
        If Mr. Githens had had his Eyemo tucked under his arm as he stood in front of 17-year-old Millicent to be introduced, the resulting film would have shown a series of jerky views of the room's elaborate paneling, ceiling, far wall and carpeted floor as Mr. Githens tumbled backward, the spinning camera perhaps catching a glimpse of the impish grin on the face of young Oggie, who had knelt behind the unsuspecting visitor's knees as Mr. Howland had given him a fateful push.
        Years later, Mr. Githens admitted that his first thought had been of his new dinner jacket, but once he'd checked and found all buttons in place, he got up laughing -- and secured his position in society.
        ''I like you,'' Millicent told him. ''You know how to laugh at yourself.''
        It was the start of a friendship that would last for 65 years, until Miss Hammond, by then long since known as Millicent Fenwick, the redoubtable four-term Congresswoman from New Jersey, died in 1992.
        Mr. Githens apparently made an even more favorable impression on her cousin, Peggy Starr. Within five years, they had married and begun raising poodles in Bernardsville, N.J., where Mr. Githens served two terms as mayor in the 1950's.
        The evening paid immediate dividends. Ambassador Hammond was so impressed by the young man's maturity that he asked him to be his private secretary in Spain.
        Returning to New York after a heady year abroad, Mr. Githens almost immediately converted the four-year-old Embassy Theater on Broadway and 46th Street into what he was never shy about calling the world's first all-newsreel, all-the-time movie theater.
        It opened on Nov. 2, 1929, catching a Depression wave that helped turn the United States into a nation of news addicts. Within a few years, as Mr. Githens was simultaneously working with Fox Movietone News and later as managing editor of Pathe News, the Embassy had expanded into a chain of 26 theaters stretching from New York to San Francisco.
        Mr. Githens, who eventually started and ran six corporations, including film production companies, was in his element in the 1930's. Having learned to fly, he eventually owned seven planes. and thought nothing of popping over from New Jersey for a game of tennis on Long Island.
        During World War II, he produced  training films for the Navy, but with the emergence of television after the war, his business slid into bankruptcy. By the time his wife died in 1968, he had been reduced to selling Rolls-Royces in Manhattan, but with such charm that a widow named Sophe Delar, who stopped in to have her 1932 Rolls serviced, took him back to Croton-on-Hudson as her husband.
        A few months after her death in 1986, he married Anita Githens, the widow of an older brother, and moved to her home on Long Island. She died in 1991, but the marriage continued to give Mr. Githens, who had no children, the delicious pleasure of hearing his nephew, John Lawrence Githens, a Manhattan translator, address him as Uncle Stepfather.
      