
        You take a fellow who looks like a goat, travels around with goats, eats with goats, lies down among goats and smells like a goat and it won't be long before people will be calling him the Goat Man.
        Which is pretty much what Charles McCartney had in mind back in the Depression when he pulled up his Iowa stakes, put on his goatskins, hitched up his ironed-wheeled goat wagon and hit the road for what turned out to be a three-decade odyssey as one of the nation's most endearing eccentrics and by far its most pungent peripatetic roadside tourist attraction.
        It is a tribute to the indelible image he created that although he had abandoned the goat life 30 years ago and settled down in a school bus in the south Georgia town of Jeffersonville, outside Macon, when Mr. McCartney died on Nov. 15 in a Macon nursing home, he was still known as the Goat Man. He was 97, or a decade or so younger than he'd taken to claiming to be.
        A man given to gross exaggeration when simple embellishment would suffice, Mr. McCartney also claimed to have visited every state except Hawaii: His goats couldn't swim that far, he explained, and if they could, they'd just end up eating the grass skirts off the hula dancers anyway.
        Whatever the scope of his travels, Mr. McCartney, who averaged seven miles a day and had a regular route between Iowa and Georgia, spent most of his time creating traffic jams throughout the South, primarily along the old Dixie Highway running through Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia and Florida.
        As many who grew up in the South in the 1940's, 50's and 60's could attest, when the Goat Man came to town it was an event, one that inevitably produced a story and a photograph in the local paper.
        Someone would spot him and his 30 or so goats coming down the highway, his wagon piled high with interesting junk, word would get around and pretty soon parents would be driving their children out to meet him, those familiar with the drill taking the precaution of staying upwind of the Goat Man.
        As Mr. McCartney, who never took a bath or washed his clothes, once boasted, nobody but his goats could stand the smell of him.
        According to research by Darryl Patton and Jimmy Hammett, who collaborated on a 1993 Goat Man video and a 1994 Goat Man book, Mr. McCartney had a colorful life even before he became the Goat Man.
        Growing up on a farm outside Sigourney, Iowa, he was considered such an odd child that the family goats were about his only true friends, which helps explain why he took off at 14, married a 24-year-old Spanish knife thrower, served as her exhibition target for a couple of years, then returned to Iowa and married at least twice more.
        The last marriage ended when he sold his goat-weary wife for $1,000 to a farmer she'd already grown sweet on.
        By then, Mr. McCartney, who had been forced to trade a farm he'd inherited to pay off a grocery bill, had begun his goat excursions, initially taking his wife and young son, Albert Gene, along on short trips and attracting so much attention that he was soon printing up postcards with his picture on them to sell to the gawkers.
        Toward the end of the 1930's, he struck off on his own, beginning a series of annual circuits and soon making Jeffersonville his home base.
        Although the postcards sold so well that rumors actually spread that he was rich, he found a new source of income early in his travels when he stopped off in a backwoods section of north Georgia and had what amounted to an economic epiphany. Observing that the bearded goat man was the spitting image of a figure depicted in religious paintings, some of the deeply religious residents became convinced that he was Jesus Christ and began showering him with gifts.
        Mr. McCartney saw no reason to correct them, and by the time the locals, tumbling to the truth, tarred and feathered him and ran him out of town on a rail, the Goat Man had an additional calling: as an itinerant preacher.
        Mr. McCartney, who eventually built a church near his school bus in Jeffersonville, admitted that his preaching was a gimmick but insisted it was sincere.
        Although his preaching, his wit, his tall tales, his goats and his seeming personification of the totally free life helped make him a beloved figure to many, to others his very strangeness seemed threatening and made him a target of mindless violence, most notably in 1968 in Signal Mountain, Tenn., near Chattanooga, when he was severely beaten by thugs who also slit the throats of eight of his goats.
        That was the end of his life as a goat man, but he continued to make occasional hitch-hiking forays, including a trip while in his 80's that began when he became obsessed with the actress Morgan Fairchild and ended when he was mugged in Los Angeles.
        Although Mr. McCartney, who had lived in the nursing home for 11 years, spoke vaguely about having other children, he leaves no known survivors. His son, Albert Gene, who lived in the school bus in Jeffersonville, was killed there earlier this year.
      