
        Harry Weese, a Chicago architect whose design for the Washington Metro system produced some of the most powerful public spaces of our time, died on Thursday at a veterans' home in Manteno, Ill. He was 83.
        A major figure in Chicago architecture and planning since the 1950's, Mr. Weese specialized in historic preservation as well as new buildings in the modern idiom. In 1967, he undertook the renovation of Adler and Sullivan's Auditorium Theater in Chicago, one of the country's most architecturally distinguished performance halls. He also supervised the restoration of the Field Museum of Natural History and Orchestra Hall in Chicago and Union Station in Washington.
        In Chicago, his modern buildings include the Time and Life Building, a concrete tower with a skin of glass and dark steel, and the Metropolitan Corrections Center, an imposing, triangular structure of concrete patterned with irregularly spaced slit windows. He also championed the redesign of large areas of the city's lakefront shoreline, proposing the development of recreational areas on artificial islands.
        Mr. Weese's most spectacular project came his way in 1967, when his firm, Harry Weese Associates, was awarded the contract to design Washington's 100-mile Metro system. Given the opportunity to work as an equal partner with the project's engineers, Mr. Weese designed a systemwide network of stations that rank among the greatest public works of this century.
        With their soaring vaults of coffered concrete, unencumbered by columns, these stations recall the visionary designs of Piranesi. At stations where two subway stations intersect, Mr. Weese created narthexlike spaces that induce an almost  religious sense of awe. That may be one reason why the stations have remained free from graffiti since the system's opening in 1976.
        Rippling lights, embedded in the subway platforms, do more than announce incoming trains. They also provide underground delight. At the tubelike entrances to some of the stations, like Dupont Circle, escalators offer commuters a giddy descent into a spatial vortex.
        Harry Mahr Weese was born in Evanston, Ill., in 1915. He was educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he graduated in 1938 with a bachelor's degree in  architecture. Later, he studied city planning under Eliel Saarinen at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., with a group of students that included Charles and Ray Eames, Harry Bertoia, Florence Knoll and Benjamin Baldwin.  He and Baldwin opened an architectural firm in 1941, but their practice was interrupted by World War II.  Mr. Weese enlisted in the Navy and served as an engineering officer until 1945.
        He reopened his own practice in 1947, after a year in the Chicago office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.  In 1950, an introduction to Irwin Miller, owner of the Cummins Engine Company, led to commissions for Columbus, Ind., the town Miller was developing as a showcase for postwar American architecture. Mr. Weese's design for the First Baptist Church, a structure of brick and slate completed in 1965, remains the town's most prominent landmark.
        The Metro system is not Mr.Weese's only important achievement in the nation's capital. In 1962, he designed the Arena Stage theater, which pioneered the use of lighting equipment, catwalks and other functional elements as esthetically expressive features. Mr. Weese also deserves credit for the realization of Maya Lin's stunning Vietnam Veterans Memorial on the Washington Mall. In 1981, as a juror for the competition to design the memorial, Mr. Weese helped select Ms. Lin's proposal from among 1,420 entries, and helped the design survive the considerable opposition it aroused.
        Mr. Weese is survived by his wife, Kate; three daughters, Shirley Weese Young of Chicago, Marcia Weese of Santa Fe, N.M., and Kate Weese of Kensington, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      