
        Frederick D. Wilkinson Jr., one of the first black executives at Macy's, the City of New York and, later, at the American Express Company, died at Mount Vernon Hospital on Nov. 15. He was 77.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, according to his family.
        Born in 1921 in Washington, Mr. Wilkinson graduated in 1942 from Howard University, where his father was the registrar. He served in the Army for four years and was discharged as a captain. He graduated with distinction from Harvard Business School in 1948 and, upon graduation, joined Macy's in the company's executive training program.
        In a 26-year career at Macy's, Mr. Wilkinson had a series of jobs, starting as an assistant buyer and later overseeing buying in Europe and Asia. He negotiated merchandise purchases throughout the world, from Israel to Italy, from Germany to Macao. In 1968, he became the manager of the Macy's store in Jamaica, Queens, and, later he became first black to serve as a vice president for the retailer.
        In 1974, Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed Mr. Wilkinson to be executive officer for passenger services for the New York City Transit Authority. He later became executive officer for surface transit with operating responsibilities for the bus system in the five boroughs. In these positions, Mr. Wilkinson had operating responsibility over 13,400 employees and 4,550 buses.
        In an obituary that Mr. Wilkinson wrote about himself shortly before his death, he said he had ''eschewed the role as spokesman for minority causes'' because he could not meet the conflicting ''bottom-line demands'' of his job and being a spokesman for his race. He said he chose to work ''behind the scenes offering advice and guidance to those who needed it, but never interceding with an employer.''
        For 24 years, Mr. Wilkinson was a trustee and national treasurer of the National Urban League, and he worked to bring to bring information about jobs in corporate America to students at traditionally black colleges. For 20 years, he was a Sunday school teacher in the South Bronx.
        Mr. Wilkinson wrote that he ''took pride in being a pioneer who simply wouldn't let his race stop him from moving up the corporate ladder -- and, in the process, opening doors for others whom he showed it could be done.''
        Mr. Wilkinson joined American Express in 1977 as a marketing vice president in the travel-related services division. By the time he retired in 1993, he had been promoted to senior vice president for worldwide communications.
        He was also active in a variety of volunteer programs, including serving as acting chairman of the M.T.A. Inspector General's Advisory Board, as a life overseer at Cornell Medical College and as a member of the board of overseers at the Brookdale Center of Aging at Hunter College.
        Mr. Wilkinson is survived by his wife of 53 years, Jeane L., of Mount Vernon; two daughters, Sharon P., the United States Ambassador to Burkina Faso, and Dayna J., of Reston, Va., and one son, Frederick D. 3d, of Los Angeles.
      