
        Ross Wetzsteon, a longtime editor at The Village Voice who helped create the Obie Awards for Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway theater and was for 28 years the chairman and host of the annual event, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after heart surgery. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Wetzsteon was among the most prominent figures in the Off Broadway world. As a writer and editor, he trumpeted the work of many fledgling theater companies as well as playwrights, including Sam Shepard, David Mamet and Wallace Shawn.
        ''He was one of the great champions and believers in the Off Broadway movement,'' said Lynne Meadow, artistic director at the Manhattan Theater Club. ''He had such a genuine love and support of alternative work, but he would also champion a good Broadway musical. He wasn't one of those people who dismiss everything above 14th Street. He was a very intelligent, astute man of the theater.''
        Born in Montana, Mr. Wetzsteon (pronounced WETZ-stone) attended Cornell and Harvard universities and began at The Village Voice in 1966. He held numerous jobs at the paper during those years, serving as  executive editor from 1973 to 1976 and, briefly, as editor in chief in 1974. Since 1976, he had been senior editor.
        His main interest was theater, but he also wrote frequently on performance art, tennis, baseball, books and cabaret. He edited two anthologies, ''The Obie Winners in 1980'' and ''Best of Off Broadway'' in 1984. He also wrote the preface to a collection of Mr. Shepard's works, '' 'Fool for Love' and Other Plays.''
        Much of the last five years was spent working on a book that he had  recently completed, ''Republic of Dreams: An Intellectual History of Greenwich Village,'' which is being published by Simon & Schuster.
        He is survived by his wife, Laura Ross, vice president for advertising and promotion at Simon & Schuster; a daughter, Rachel, of Manhattan, and a brother, Scott Wetstone of Seattle.
        Correction:  February 25, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Ross Wetzsteon, an editor at The Village Voice, misstated his involvement with the Obie Awards for Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway theater. The awards were begun in 1956 by Jerry Tallmer, not by Mr. Wetzsteon. After joining The Voice in 1966, Mr. Wetzsteon worked to build the Obies into a major award.
      