
        Lonnie Pitchford, a Mississippi bluesman who was dedicated to reviving early Delta blues, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Lexington, Miss. He was 43.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his manager, Patty Johnson.
        Mr. Pitchford performed around the world and appeared regularly in New York, often in concerts presented by the World Music Institute. He played the diddley-bow, a one-stringed instrument he would assemble onstage from a two-by-four, two nails, broom wire and a crushed snuff can. Using a dime as a slide, he would play driving, wailing blues lines. He also played guitar and occasionally piano, singing classic Delta blues with a pensive, haunted voice.
        The diddley-bow was Mr. Pitchford's first instrument, made from baling wire nailed to the side of his family's house in rural Lexington. He sang in the church from childhood on and learned to play piano; he was 12  when he began sharing a guitar with his four brothers.
        Mr. Pitchford learned traditional Delta blues from Eugene Powell (who had played with the Mississippi Sheiks in the 1930's) and from Robert Junior Lockwood, whose stepfather was Robert Johnson.
        Mr. Pitchford's wife, Minnie, is the daughter of Elmore James's girlfriend, and Mr. Pitchford learned some Elmore James songs that had been left with his mother-in-law.
        He began performing outside Mississippi as a teen-ager, appearing at the Smithsonian Institution's Festival of American Folklife from 1972 to 1991. By the 1990's he had toured in Europe and Australia as well as the United States. When not on the road, he worked as a carpenter.
        He appeared in the documentaries ''The Land Where the Blues Began'' (1980) and ''Deep Blues'' (1992), and was recorded for five blues anthologies before he made his first solo album, ''All Around Man,'' for Rooster Blues Records in 1994. He was working on an album for Mississippi Crossroads Music. He also made an album with the New Africa String Band, which included Mr. Powell and Big Jack Johnson.
        Mr. Pitchford is survived by his wife; his mother, Rosie S. Pitchford; two sisters, Ersine Hodges and Brenda Jones, and four brothers, Willie Douglas, Andrew James, Edward Charles and Roosevelt, all of Mississippi.
      