
        Thomas Manning, an explorer known as the lone wolf of the Arctic who followed his dog sled and camped in igloos to map desolate reaches of the far north of Canada, died on Nov. 8 in the hospital in Smiths Falls, Ontario, near the gentleman's farm that he had in Merrickville. He was 86.
        A frequently solitary wanderer, Mr. Manning rarely seemed to need the comforts of conversation and used words sparingly. Consider a message that asked a passing Eskimo to carry by dog sled to a radio transmitter, where it could be sent by Morse code to Montreal. The message, in 1938, was intended for Ella Wallace Jackson, a woman from Nova Scotia who was called Jack, and it said: ''If wish join me Cape Dorset for two years I shall be pleased. Think well. Fools rush in.''
        Though pithy, it proved persuasive. Miss Jackson, whom Mr. Manning had met three years earlier, arrived above the 75th parallel to marry him and to spend a prolonged honeymoon of a year and half mapping the coast of Baffin Island. The newlyweds sustained themselves with the fish, birds and seals that they hunted.
        In contrast to her laconic husband, Mrs. Manning, who survives him, not only amassed, but also recounted the couple's Arctic experiences, writing ''Igloo for the Night'' in 1943 and ''A Summer on Hudson Bay'' in 1949. In ''Igloo'' she described the long months that she and Mr. Manning spent without seeing any other person until Mr. Manning had a dream that impelled them to head south by dog sled to the Eskimo settlement of Cape Dorset. They arrived on Jan. 2, 1940, to be told that World War II had begun.
        Eager to participate in the war effort Mr. Manning continued around the Foxe Basin on a journey by boat and dog team that covered 2,500 miles and lasted just over a year.
        When he arrived at Churchill, Manitoba, for a train to carry him south from Hudson Bay, he met a United States Air Force officer, who asked whether the story he had heard from Eskimos about Mr. Manning's killing a polar bear with a boning knife was true. Mr. Manning replied, ''It was not a very big bear.''
        He subsequently enlisted in the Royal Canadian Navy and helped direct the building of Arctic airfields and worked on developing cold-weather clothing.
        Thomas Henry Manning was born in Dalling, Northamptonshire, England. Mr. Manning, son of a well-to-do farmer who was a well-known cricketer, was educated at Harrow and Cambridge, where he studied biology. He made his first northern journey in 1932 in Lapland, and the next year he went to Southampton Island in the Canadian Arctic, where he lived among Eskimos for two years,  learning skills to survive long periods of Arctic travel.
        Among his ventures was an expedition in 1949 on which he discovered an Arctic island that was later named for Prince Charles. In 1952, Mr. Manning and a young colleague, Andrew Macpherson, tried to circumnavigate Banks Island by canoe and chart its coast. They were engulfed by ice close to the spot where, in 1853, the explorer Robert McClure, and his men had to abandon their ship.
        Mr. Manning and Mr. Macpherson similarly headed overland, pulling their meager rations on sledges made from barrels left by the McClure party. They walked through snow and marsh for 14 days and Mr. Manning suffered snow blindness before a trading schooner picked him up. The next year Mr. Manning returned to complete his canoe trip.
        He kept returning to the Arctic into his late 60's, with his later expeditions devoted to zoological and ornithological studies at James Bay and the southern parts of Hudson Bay, where he tagged polar bears for the Canadian Wildlife Service. His learned papers covered birds and mammals from Banks Island in the west to Ungava in the east, as well as archeology and Eskimo life.
        He donated his library of several thousand books to the Eskimo community of Ikalhuit on Baffin Island, and shortly before his death he presented $645,000 to Cambridge University to go toward the new Shackleton Library at the Scott Polar Research Institute.
      