
        Vladimir P. Demikhov, a Russian surgeon whose pioneering work in performing organ transplants on dogs set the stage for similar operations on humans in later years, died on Sunday. He was 82 and lived in a small apartment on Moscow's outskirts.
        The Itar-Tass news agency, which reported his death, said it came after a long illness. But the agency did not report what caused his death or where he died.
        Itar-Tass said Dr. Demikhov was the first to perform a heart transplant on a dog, in 1946. The agency reported that the dog, which kept its old heart and the new one, survived for five months. In 1947, the agency said, Dr. Demikhov carried out the first animal lung transplant, which was also performed on a dog; and in 1952 he conducted the first coronary bypass, on another dog.
        Asked about Itar-Tass's account, Dr. Dennis L. Franco, a Yale Medical School professor of surgery who does organ transplants, said that he would not dispute that Dr. Demikhov was the first to do these operations, although skimpy record-keeping makes it hard to document.
        Opinions among American experts differ as to the importance of Dr. Demikhov's work in the history of organ-transplant surgery. Dr. John V. Conte, the director of heart and lung transplantation at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, said yesterday that , after Dr. Alexis Carrel, an American surgeon and experimental biologist who won a 1912 Nobel Prize, Dr. Demikhov ''probably had the biggest early impact on the field of heart and lung transplantation.
        During the 1940's and 50's, Dr. Conte said, Dr. Demikhov ''did hundreds and hundreds of experiments on dogs that showed different techniques of how to actually do heart and lung transplants.''
        ''The guy clearly had to have a very creative mind,'' Dr. Conte added.
        Dr. Franco said Dr. Demikhov's work was very significant in leading to transplants of hearts and lungs in humans in later years, because the work demonstrated that the operations could be performed.
        But Dr. Franco emphasized that the subsequent history of organ transplants was protracted and complex. He said, ''I'm sure that anyone who was interested in transplantation at the time was aware of Demikhov's work and of the work of other pioneers in the field.'' Indeed, Dr. Franco said, Dr. Norman Shumway of Stanford University and Dr. Richard Lower of the Medical College of Virginia ''did a lot of heart transplants in dogs in the late 50's and early 60's.''
        ''And after they did their laboratory work, that geared everybody up to performing heart transplants in humans,'' Dr. Franco went on, and ''Christiaan Barnard was the first surgeon to do a human heart transplant,'' in South Africa in 1967.
        ''Unfortunately, the patient didn't do very well because we didn't have the immunosuppression'' that was necessary, Dr. Franco said, and then ''in the late 1970's cyclosporine became available.'' Cyclosporine prevents the rejection of a transplanted organ by the body of the recipient.
        ''So now,'' Dr. Franco continued, ''once we had that drug, then people began to look at transplanting the heart and the lungs in humans, and Dr. Bruce Reitz and Dr. Shumway performed the first human heart-lung transplant, at Stanford'' in the early 80's. Thus, Dr. Franco said, almost 40 years passed after Dr. Demikhov's early work in animal transplants before that operation was performed clinically on humans. And yet, despite that time lag, he said, Dr. Demikhov's achievement was ''an important stepping-stone'' toward organ transplants in humans.
        Dr. Richard J. White, a professor of neurosurgery at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, said of Dr. Demikhov, ''I knew him, and he was a fascinating man, an amazing experimental surgeon; he transplanted, using dogs almost exclusively, almost every organ you could possible think of.''
        Dr. White said Dr. Demikhov was often incorrectly credited with the first successful mammalian head transplant. ''In reality it was was a puppy's upper-body transplant, which is easier to do than a true head transplant,'' Dr. White said. ''A true, successful head transplant was not done until 1963, and that was done on a monkey, at Case Western Reserve University.''
        Dr. Demikhov is said to have been born in Moscow and to have attended the First Medical Institute, a hospital and medical school in Moscow. After World War II, he undertook his experimental work, at the Vishnevsky Surgical Institute of the Academy of Medical Sciences of the Soviet Union.
        Itar-Tass reported that Soviet medical leaders had regarded his experiments as ''tricks.'' But earlier this year, he was awarded a high Russian honor, the Order for Services for the Fatherland. Late in life, the agency said, he was the director of the Russian Health Ministry's Republican Center for Human Reproduction.
        Dr. Demikhov's wife, Liya, died earlier this year. No further information on survivors was available.
        Correction:  December 5, 1998, Saturday  An obituary of the pioneering Russian transplant surgeon Vladimir P. Demikhov on Nov. 25 misstated the given name of a Case Western Reserve professor who praised the surgeon's work. He is Dr. Robert J. White, not Richard.
        In some copies the obituary also misstated the date of an achievement ascribed to Dr. Demikhov by the Russian news agency Itar-Tass. The agency said he performed a lung transplant on a dog -- the first on an animal -- in 1947, not 1952.
        The obituary included an incorrect reference from the agency to the history of heart transplants on dogs. Dr. Demikhov's, in 1946, was not the first; Dr. Alexis Carrel, at the University of Chicago, performed the first one in 1905, according to a spokesman for the hospitals there.
      