
        Earl Kim, a composer whose music valued economy, precision and quietude, and who was an important mentor to younger composers during a 23-year career at Harvard University, died last Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78.
        He had recently been diagnosed with cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Kim received the most public attention for works he wrote for the violinist Itzhak Perlman, which were were somewhat out of character for the composer. In 1979 Mr. Perlman gave the premiere of Mr. Kim's Violin Concerto with the New York Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall.
        Though a compact, 20-minute, one-movement piece, the concerto teems with an almost Romantic lyricism and brilliant writing for the violin. Following this, Mr. Kim composed a set of dazzling violin caprices for Mr. Perlman that have become popular with many violinists.
        But for the most part, Mr. Kim's music was modest of statement and infrequently heard outside of contemporary and chamber music circles. He was a modernist in the sense that his musical language was steeped in contemporary procedures, including touches of the 12-tone idiom. But his voice was deeply personal: aristocratic, restrained,  with not a note wasted.
        Mr. Kim was especially admired for his vocal works. Versed in several languages, he selected texts of  distinction by authors like Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Rilke, Anne Sexton and, his favorite, Samuel Beckett.
        The spareness, abstraction and mystery in Beckett's writing was reflected tellingly in Mr. Kim's many musical settings, including ''Exercises en Route'' and ''Earthlight.''
        Some of Mr. Kim's vocal works use the singing voice traditionally. But he was especially noted for his melodramas, in which the words are spoken or quasi-sung, accompanied by spare instrumental gestures. Bethany Beardslee and Benita Valente were among the singers who championed Mr. Kim's vocal music, and Dawn Upshaw took the title of her album ''The Girl With Orange Lips'' from one of the songs in his cycle ''Where Grief Slumbers.''
        Mr. Kim was born in Dinuba, Calif., on Jan. 6, 1920. In 1939, he began studies in composition at the University of California at Los Angeles with Schoenberg; the following year he transferred to Berkeley, where he worked with Ernest Bloch.  From 1952 to 1967, he taught at Princeton. He then accepted a position at Harvard, eventually becoming James Edward Ditson Professor of Music. He retired in 1990.
        Mr. Kim was active in political causes. In 1983, as president of Musicians Against Nuclear Arms, he participated in a concert at Avery Fisher Hall to raise funds for Physicians for Social Responsibility. In 1990, he refused an invitation to join a music panel of the National Endowment for the Arts to express his opposition to ''all forms of censorship of the arts,'' as he wrote in a letter published in The New York Times.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha Potter, a violinist; a daughter, Eva, of Cambridge, and a daughter from a previous marriage, Shawna Kent of Manhattan.
        Mr. Kim's last major work, ''The White Hour'' for chamber orchestra, was given its premiere this year by the Boston Chamber Music Society.
      