
        Elmer H. Wavering, who as a young man growing up in Quincy, Ill., tinkered in his radio shop and came up with what eventually became the first commercial car radio, died on Friday. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Wavering's invention helped him to rise quickly, and eventually  he became the president of Motorola Inc., the leading maker of car radios in the 1940's.
        Not only did Mr. Wavering make spending time in the car more pleasurable, but in the 1950's he and a team of engineers at Motorola developed the first automotive alternator that could be mass produced, helping to make cars more comfortable and easier handling.
        The device replaced inefficient generators and enabled cars to produce steady and reliable electric power.
        Detroit auto makers jumped at adopting the new electrical system, which allowed them to add on a mass scale such highly profitable options as power windows, seats,  steering and brakes and, eventually, air-conditioning.
        Mr. Wavering, who died at a nursing home in Naples, Fla., had seen the products he helped develop transform vehicles into rolling high-fidelity listening rooms with dashboards full of controls.
        Even after he became president and chief operating officer of Motorola in 1964, Mr. Wavering liked to roam the shop floor and rub elbows with engineers in their offices.
        He considered his invention of the alternator to be his most significant.
        ''The radio may have made the car fun,'' he once said, but the alternator ''made everything else possible.''
        During World II, he led an effort to produce quartz crystals for use in military radios and radar, a task that was considered a major contribution to the industrial effort that eventually helped the Allies win the war.
        He also helped to build Motorola into one of the nation's major companies, having served as its president, vice chairman and chief operating officer before retiring in 1972.
        Mr. Wavering was born in 1907 in Quincy, a Mississippi River town near Hannibal, Mo. As a young boy, he was caught up in the excitement of early radio. A visit with some World War I veterans who had built radios from war surplus equipment set him on his way to building his own homemade set.
        When he was in high school, he worked in a radio parts store run by Bill Lear, who went on to found the Lear Jet Corporation. They helped customers build their own radios.
        By tinkering and absorbing engineering on his own, Mr. Wavering worked with Mr. Lear and built a car radio that could withstand the rigors of bumpy roads and severe climate changes.
        He met his future wife, Vera Deremiah, a teacher in St. Louis, on one of his trips to sell his radio.
        The radio was later called a Motorola by Paul Galvin, the founder of the company that eventually became an electronics giant. Mr. Galvin thought the name suggested sound in a motor car.
        The radio was made up of a receiver, a bulky black box with vacuum tubes and an octagonal box that contained a speaker and was mounted under the dashboard.
        A smaller box housed a tuner and volume control and was mounted on the steering wheel. The receiver was connected to two batteries under the seats. A V-shaped aerial ran from the controls and was connected to the rear axle.
        Costing about $80 on cars that sold for $600 to $800, the radio was not for everybody and was slow to catch on.
        It was not until after World War II that smaller, less expensive models became common in cars and were installed by the auto makers at assembly plants.
        Mr. Wavering helped out his hometown by having the company build three plants in Quincy to make the radio parts. Quincy honored him by dedicating a park in his honor.
        He is survived by a sister, Annabelle Sarsfield of Vero Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Lynne Shotwell, and two grandchildren.
      