
        Frank William Newell, an eye specialist, teacher and head of many leading ophthalmologic organizations, some of which he helped found, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Chicago. He was 82.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said the University of Chicago, where he was ophthalmology chairman for 28 years. Although Dr. Newell considered himself primarily a teacher, he was a noted practitioner with considerable research on the pharmacology and physiology of the eye.
        The author of hundreds of research papers, articles and book chapters, Dr. Newell was working on a history of ophthalmology just before his death. From 1965 to 1991 was the editor in chief of The American Journal of Ophthalmology.
        He was the author of ''Ophthalmology: Principles and Concepts,'' which he continued to edit and update. A classic textbook, it is now in its eighth edition. He wrote or edited more than a dozen other books.
        Dr. Newell was born in St. Paul and earned bachelor's and medical degrees at Loyola University in Chicago, along with an master's degree in ophthalmology from the University of Minnesota in 1942.
        After a stint at Northwestern University, he joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1953. When a department of ophthalmology was established there in 1970, he became its founding chairman.
        Dr. Newell stepped down from that position when he reached 65 in 1981 and retired five years later, remaining as an emeritus professor.
        He was a founder, president and chairman of the Association of University Professors of Ophthalmology. Other professional organizations he headed over the years included the Academica Ophthalmologica Internationalis, the American Board of Ophthalmology, the American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology and the Association for Research in Ophthalmology.
        Dr. Newell is survived by his wife of 56 years, Marian; two sons, Frank W. Jr. of Schaumburg, Ill., and David, of Chicago; two daughters, Susan O'Connell and Elizabeth Murphy, both of Chicago; a brother, Robert, of Elm Grove, Wis., and six grandchildren.
      