
        Rudolph J. Melone, whose career as a college administrator was overshadowed by his founding of the famed Gilroy Garlic Festival in Gilroy, Calif., died on Sept. 17 in San Francisco. He was 73.
        The cause was complications from cancer.
        In 1979, Dr. Melone started the festival, which now draws more than 125,000 paying visitors a year.
        Dr. Melone, a native of New Haven, was a University of Portland graduate who received his doctorate in the administration of higher education at the University of California at Berkeley and helped start Pima Community College in Tucson, Ariz., before going to Gilroy in 1975 as president of Gavilan Community College.
        Dr. Melone got the idea for the festival after reading about a similar event in France. He presented his idea to the Rotary Club and enlisting local garlic growers and other businesses. After initial resistance, he won enough support to stage the first festival. It was such a success he had no trouble making it an annual event, one where the profusion of garlic-laced foods include garlic ice cream.
        The festival has an innovative structure that insures a constant flow of new volunteers and new ideas. The 5,000 volunteers receive an hourly ''stipend'' paid to the charities of their choice from festival proceeds and work their way up to management positions.
        In its first 20 years the festival has raised more than $5 million for Gilroy charities.
        At Berkeley, Dr. Melone, who was divorced, married a widow with three young sons, adopted them and moved to Tucson.
        Dr. Melone stepped down as festival head after three years and retired from Gavilan in 1985 because of failing eyesight, moving to San Francisco.
        There, after the development of video magnifiers restored his ability to read, he twice served as acting president of the Saybrook Institute, a small graduate school of psychology.
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria; a son from his first marriage, Mark,  of Paterson, Calif.; three other sons, John, of Union City, Calif., Philip, of Vallejo, Calif., and Michael, of Emeryville, Calif., and four grandsons.
      