
        Donald Stuart Russell, a former Governor of South Carolina, former United States Senator and a Federal judge for more than 30 years, died on Sunday, his 92d birthday, at his home in Spartanburg, S.C.
        When Mr. Russell was elected Governor in 1962, he startled many supporters by inviting black South Carolinians to his inauguration. It was the first integrated inaugural reception in the state's history.
        Despite the show of support for minorities at his inauguration, however, Governor Russell continued the state government's legal attempts to stop desegregation. The Democrat  had been opposed to the civil rights bill, calling it unconstitutional and unfortunate.
        But when the state lost its case to keep Harvey B. Gantt, a black man from Charleston, out of Clemson Agricultural College, Governor Russell called on the people of South Carolina to face the issue ''peacably, without violence, without disorder and with proper regard for the good name of our state and her people.''
        A tall, scholarly man with a penchant for collecting first editions of the classics, Mr. Russell was a political protege of the late James F. Byrnes, who was Harry S. Truman's Secretary of State and later a United States Supreme Court Justice. The two men had been law partners at one of the most powerful law firms in the state, Nicholls, Wyche & Byrnes.
        From 1945 to 1947, Mr. Russell served as Assistant Secretary of State under Mr. Byrnes. He then joined Mr. Byrnes at the Washington law firm of Hogan & Hartson.
        Shortly after Mr. Byrnes became Governor in 1951, he appointed his former assistant, Mr. Russell, to be president of the University of South Carolina. Mr. Russell held that position until 1957, when he resigned to run for Governor himself. But he lost to Ernest F. Hollings in the Democratic primary.
        Mr. Russell made his second, and this time successful, run for Governor in 1962. Three years later, he announced that he would resign, using his governorship to appoint himself to the United States Senate seat left open by the death of Olin D. Johnston.
        But soon, in the 1966 Democratic primary, Senator Russell was soundly defeated by the same man who had beat him once before, Mr. Hollings, who had made an issue of the Senator's ''self-appointment'' during the campaign.
        In 1966, then a 60-year-old millionaire, Mr. Russell was nominated by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Federal bench, and was sworn in as a Federal district judge in 1967.
        In 1971, President Nixon appointed Mr. Russell to the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
        In a 1988 case that had pitted the protection of national security against the freedom of speech, Mr. Russell and his two peers on the Fourth Circuit upheld the conviction of a former Navy intelligence analyst who gave photographs of a Soviet ship to a British military journal. The case was the first in which a Federal employee was convicted of criminal charges for disclosing Government information to the press.
        ''The mere fact that one has stolen a document in order that he may deliver it to the press, whether for money or for other personal gain, will not immunize him from responsibility for his criminal act,'' Judge Russell said in the court's main opinion. ''To use the First Amendment for such a purpose would be to convert the First Amendment into a warrant for thievery.''
        Mr. Russell was born in Lafayette Springs, Miss., on Feb. 22, 1906. His father, Jesse, worked an 80-acre farm before he died when the boy was 4 years old. When Donald was 8, his mother moved to Chester, S.C., and opened a boardinghouse. As a youth, Mr. Russell helped the family by delivering newspapers.
        He graduated from high school at the age of 15 and went to the University of South Carolina, where he worked in a gasoline station to pay for his room and board. He earned a law degree at the University of Michigan.
        Mr. Russell is survived by his wife, Virginia Utsey Russell, who had been a college classmate and campus beauty queen. He is also survived by the couple's four children, Donald Stewart Russell Jr. of Columbia, S.C., Mildred Pendleton Neiman of Clinton, S.C., John Richardson Russell, of Spartanburg, S.C., and Walker Scott Russell of New Orleans. He had nine grandchildren.
        Mr. Russell neither drank nor smoked. As Governor, he was known for frequently walking the two miles from the Governor's mansion to his office.
        He had continued to hear cases in the Fourth Circuit until a few weeks ago, even after receiving radiation treatments for lung cancer.
      