
        Robert Eisner, former president of the American Economic Association and a staunch advocate of a view unpopular among an increasing number of academic economists that active Government spending is needed to achieve full employment and growth, died Wednesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 76.
        The cause was complications from a bone marrow disorder, his daughter, Mary Eccles, said.
        Mr. Eisner, the William R. Kenan Emeritus Professor of Economics at Northwestern University, served several years as the chairman of the university's economics department.
        Prof. Robert Coen of Northwestern, who was a student of Mr. Eisner and a longtime colleague, said: ''He was a leading authority on the economics of public budgets, business cycles, Social Security and taxes. He brought a rare combination of passion and scientific precision to policy discussions. His technical contributions were central to some of the most important policy debates of recent times.''
        Robert Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: ''Mr. Eisner was fearless. He never softened his language to ingratiate. Yet no serious person in the profession ever dismissed his views.''
        Mr. Eisner's early statistical studies concluded that business investment in plant and equipment was determined more by the state of the economy -- how close the economy was operating to capacity -- than by interest rates and other economic factors. His research made him skeptical that monetary policy, which operates through interest rates, could keep the economy on a steady upward climb.
        He called instead on Government to drive the economy toward full employment, running deficits if need be. This so-called Keynesian view --  that the economy could not on its own achieve full employment and could use help from the Government -- conformed to the teachings of leading figures within the economics profession during the 1950's and 1960's. But the view increasingly fell out of favor in the aftermath of the inflationary bursts and soaring deficits of the 1970's and 1980's.
        Mr. Eisner, in scores of professional publications, Congressional testimony and articles for newspapers, backed up his call for active fiscal policy by criticizing what he regarded as simplistic attacks on deficit spending. Mr. Eisner argued in several books in the 1980's and 1990's that the Government's measure of deficits greatly exaggerated their size and importance. Once the impact of inflation and the size of the economy were taken into account, he concluded, the country could readily afford deficits of $200 billion or more.  He also cautioned against cutting Federal spending on education, research and infrastructure for the sake of reducing Federal borrowing.
        Mr. Eisner also took issue with economists who attributed the nation's lagging growth rate to low savings -- a faulty diagnosis, he said, that led to regrettable policy prescriptions. Again, he dissected the way Government measures savings, concluding that it was arbitrary and narrow. In a phone interview, he once said: ''When a firm pays for slabs of concrete, we call that investment. But when parents pay tuition for their children, we call that consumption.''
        The key to growth, he wrote, was to increase investment spending by running a fully employed economy rather than to persuade families and government to consume less.
        His most pointed criticism was directed at economists who advocated what he regarded as the pernicious idea that the Government could not use monetary or fiscal policies to drive unemployment below, say, 5.5 or 6 percent, out of fear that the effort would lead to escalating inflation. The idea, Mr. Eisner argued, relegated millions of workers to needless unemployment. Mr. Coen said Mr. Eisner took satisfaction in the fact that unemployment has now fallen well below levels that his critics said could never be achieved and, as a byproduct, the once-threatening deficit has been eliminated.
        In his most recent book, ''Social Security: More, Not Less,'' and other writings, Mr. Eisner took on critics of Social Security who contend that the program is financially decrepit and must be radically overhauled, perhaps by turning it into a system of  individual savings accounts. By Mr. Eisner's calculations, the system is only modestly out of financial alignment and can be balanced with minor tinkering. He took aim at critics who pointed to the financial drain that the growing population of elderly would put on future taxpayers, but who ignored the fact that those same taxpayers would have fewer children to support and, besides, would be earning far higher wages than today's workers.
        Mr. Eisner proposed innovative ways for the Government to track the economy and keep its books. For example, he sought ways to take official account of the work done by at-home spouses. Several of his ideas have been formally adopted. Others, though excluded from formal Government documents, are included in occasional reports.
        Mr. Eisner was, according to colleagues at Northwestern, a zealous teacher who took special delight in teaching introductory courses to undergraduates. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the Econometric Society, and was the 15th recipient of the John R. Commons Award of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international honor society in economics.
        Mr. Eisner was born in New York City, received his bachelor's degree from City College in 1940, his master's degree in sociology from Columbia University in 1942 and his doctoral degree in economics from Johns Hopkins University in 1951. He served in the Army from December 1942 to August 1946, rising to the rank of captain.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Edith; two daughters, Mary Eisner Eccles of Chevy Chase, Md., and Emily Eisner of Chicago; a brother, Alan Eisner of Redwood City, Calif., and three grandchildren.
        Despite his often controversial views, Mr. Eisner, according to colleagues, remained highly popular among his peers. James Tobin, a Nobel laureate from Yale University, said: ''Bob was never considered an outlier. His colleagues knew he played in the right ball park.''
        Nor, Mr. Solow of M.I.T. said, are Mr. Eisner's Keynesian views necessarily a relic: ''He taught the profession a lot. And it ain't over. The Keynesian idea, or some such variant, that the economy is not self-correcting and needs government help is coming back. Mr. Eisner is not obsolete.''
      