
        Erik Nitsche, an art director, graphic designer, photographer, illustrator and book packager known for his posters, advertisements, logos and book designs, died on Nov. 10 in Danbury, Conn. He was 90.
        Mr. Nitsche was born in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1908 and worked in Switzerland, Germany and the United States. He was among a handful of progressive designers and artists who imbued American graphic design with a Modern European sensibility.
        One of his most important contributions was the development of information design systems in books and corporate annual reports produced for the General Dynamics Company from 1955 to 1960.
        At General Dynamics, which produced the first nuclear-powered submarine, the Nautilus, Mr. Nitsche was hired to develop a visual image that would introduce this submarine to the world and at the same time emphasize the company's peaceful concerns.
        The design for the submarine was top secret, so Mr. Nitsche devised a symbolic solution based on the message ''Atoms for Peace.''
        He created a series of posters in English, Russian, German, French, Hindi and Japanese featuring abstract and symbolic images.
        Today these are among the classic modern posters.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Nitsche made illustrations for the German weeklies Querschnitt and Simplicissimus, designed alphabets for the French type foundry Deberny & Peignot, and illustrated covers for Harper's Bazaar, Fortune, Town and Country, Vanity Fair, House and Garden, and Look.
        He produced several hundred record-album covers for Decca in the United States and was vice president of Dorland International, an advertising agency in Germany.
        In the 1950's and 60's he was consultant to the Museum of Modern Art's department of design and to Standard Oil of New Jersey.
        He also designed advertising campaigns for Saks Fifth Avenue and Ohrbach's department stores and posters for Universal Pictures and 20th Century Fox.
        Mr. Nitsche was an innovative book designer and packager. He was visual editor of the General Dynamics company history, a huge book titled ''Dynamic America.'' Other major projects were a 12-volume history of science and technology that sold more than two million copies in many languages, and a five-volume history of the 20th century, produced by his company, Erik Nitsche International.
        His book design had a simple beauty and didactic economy, with dynamic silhouettes and vignettes. His typography was clean and crisp, a marriage of classical and modern approaches.
        In 1980 Mr. Nitsche temporarily turned to painting, but a year later he moved to Munich and returned to the field, designing exhibition catalogues, posters and stamps.
        He is survived by his wife, Renate; two sons, John, of Philadelphia and Marc, of Geneva, and five grandchildren.
      