
        Stephen K-M Tim, a botanist and illustrator who was a guiding force for many of the exhibits and publications of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died on Nov. 21 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Tim, who was the garden's vice president for science, library and publications, died of cardiac arrest, garden officials said.
        Born and reared in South Africa, Mr. Tim got his start at the garden in part through a coincidence. Elizabeth Scholtz, who as director hired him 27 years ago, said that at the time, garden officials were looking for an assistant horticultural taxonomist, someone who was supposed to know everything about everything.
        Mr. Tim was a mycologist, a specialist in mushrooms, and did not seem to fit the bill. But Ms. Scholtz was a fellow South African, and looked more closely at his resume.
        ''I noticed that he came from Rhodes University, which had a fine reputation for general botany,'' said Ms. Scholtz, now the garden's director emeritus.
        South African botanists, she added, ''learned our taxonomy before we learned anything else.'' Mr. Tim got  the job.
        Sir Ghillean Prance, director of the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew in England, said that a taxonomist's  role at a botanical garden is seemingly simple, yet crucial. ''You need someone who can reliably identify  the plants you are growing,'' he said.
        But because a taxonomist has a science background, he can help with interpretation, Sir Ghillean said.
        That is exactly what Mr. Tim did. After two years he was named curator of the herbarium, and a year later created the first of many exhibits, on insect-eating plants.
        Later, he was involved in creating a garden for the disabled, and in renovating the Shakespeare garden. His most significant achievement was the conception of exhibits at the Steinhardt Conservatory in the mid-1980's, including a ''Trail of Evolution'' that traces plants through the ages.
        Mr. Tim was also a skilled illustrator whose work appeared in The New York Times and in many of the garden's books and newsletters, which are among the most popular botanical publications in the world.
        His drawing skills were self-taught (he made his first study at age 4 while sick with the measles), and were no doubt aided by his skills as a taxonomist, said Judith Zuk, president of the garden.
        ''Observation is so critical in taxonomy,'' Ms. Zuk said. ''From a botanical illustration standpoint, this made him particularly fine.''
        Mr. Tim was an expert on poisonous plants, and served as an emergency contact for poison control centers and hospitals around the country.
        Mr. Tim is survived by his wife, Nancy Shopis Tim; a sister, Phonyim Tim, of Victoria, British Columbia; a brother, Peter, of Johannesburg, and three nephews.
        Correction:  December 2, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Stephen K-M Tim, vice president for science, information services and publications at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, gave his educational background incompletely. He had a doctorate in botany from Rhodes University in South Africa.
      