
        Arthur Henry Green, a psychiatrist noted for his expertise in working with abused children, died on Nov. 25 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was melanoma, his family said.
        In two decades on the Columbia University faculty, Dr. Green established an international reputation with his research and treatment of physically and sexually abused children. His work influenced the ways such abuse is treated in the United States, and the programs he designed served as models in other countries.
        Dr. Green was the founding director of the Family Center at Babies Hospital in the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, where he played Santa Claus for his patients. He was also a senior psychiatrist at Presbyterian Hospital and a professor of clinical psychiatry in pediatrics at Columbia University.
        He was also associated with the Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, and in 1975, as a clinical associate professor at Downstate Medical Center, he founded the Brooklyn Family Center for the treatment of abuse victims and their parents. He had a private practice on Central Park West.
        Dr. Green was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Queens. He graduated from the University of Rochester in 1951 and earned his medical degree at the University of Amsterdam in 1955. He trained in psychiatry at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan; he trained in adult and child psychoanalysis at Columbia University , where he also began his first teaching assignment in 1967.
        He was a frequent guest speaker at European conferences on mental health and appeared on television and radio programs in Europe and the United States. Dr. Green was the author of two textbooks on the mistreatment of children, one written with Dr. Diane H. Schetky, that remain in print. At his death he was finishing a book about his experience with Bosnian refugee children.
        Dr. Green is survived by his wife, Carol Breitman Green; a daughter, Susanna Green, and a son, Jonathan, both of Manhattan.
      