
        Freddie Young, one of the world's most respected cinematographers, whose work included an elaborate series of dissolves for the montage that opens Alfred Hitchcock's ''Blackmail,'' Britain's first talkie, and the famous three-minute shot in David Lean's ''Lawrence of Arabia'' in which Omar Sharif slowly emerges from the desert mist, died on Dec. 1, his family said. He was 96.
        In his long and distinguished career, Mr. Young had a reputation for being a consummate professional, a craftsman who strove to recreate the simplicity of real life on film and who believed that filmmaking was a collaborative effort in which his job was to serve, and enhance if possible, the director's vision. His talents were well-recognized: nominated many times for Academy Awards for cinematography, he won an Oscar three times: for ''Lawrence of Arabia'' (1962), ''Dr. Zhivago'' (1965) and ''Ryan's Daughter'' (1970), all directed by Lean.
        Mr. Young was born in London in 1902, the seventh of eight children. His family was poor, so he left school at the age of 14 to work in a munitions factory, helping make hand grenades. But he hated it, and -- inspired by frequent trips to the movies with his brother Bill -- knocked on the door at Gaumont Studios, a London studio now defunct, and was hired to work in the film lab. He quickly advanced to lab manager. When the studio closed, he joined British and Dominions, the film company run by Herbert Wilcox.
        Eager to do anything, he occasionally worked as a stuntman in films like ''Rob Roy'' (1922), in which he plunged from a 50-foot castle wall, and ''Triumph of the Rat'' (1926), where he was the stunt double for the actor Ivor Novello, hurling himself through Paris traffic. In the 1930's, he was chief cameraman for many of  Wilcox's films, including ''The Blue Danube'' (1932) and ''Goodbye Mr. Chips'' (1939).
        After spending World War II making films for the Army Film Unit, Mr. Young became chief cameraman of MGM's British arm, working with such directors as John Ford, King Vidor and George Cukor. He met Lean, for what would be a long and fruitful collaboration, when the two worked together on ''Major Barbara'' (1941), the film version of Shaw's play. But the relationship wasn't always easy: after one particularly harsh command from Lean, Mr. Young looked at him coolly and said, ''Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.''
        Though Mr. Young tended to grumble that Lean never gave him enough credit, some years later the director wrote flatteringly to him about their work together. ''For the  most part, I will give you a setup, fiddle around with the props, talk to the actors and go and have a cup of tea,'' Lean said. ''I know a bit about lenses, consider myself rather bright about composition and, at a pinch, make a suggestion or minor criticism about lighting, but on the whole you're a lonely man left to your own devices.''
        Mr. Young married his first wife, Marjorie, in 1927; she died in 1963. He is survived by his second wife, Joan, and three children.
        The ever-energetic Mr. Young worked late into his life, and came out of retirement at the age of 82 to direct ''Arthur's Hallowed Ground'' for television. But mostly he spent his final years painting, which he adored. ''I'm creating pictures with a paintbrush with nobody to interfere with my work,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''Seventy Light Years: A Life in Movies,'' which is to be published in Britain by Faber & Faber next year. ''It's marvelous.''
      