
        Gordon S. Ringer, a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge who tried to force President Richard M. Nixon to testify in his court in 1974 about a case linked to the Watergate affair, died on Nov. 20 at his home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was emphysema, The Associated Press reported.
        Judge Ringer, who retired last year, said on Jan. 29, 1974, that he would order Nixon to testify in person at the trial of three aides on charges stemming from a break-in at the office of a psychiatrist who had treated Daniel J. Ellsberg, a former Government official. Mr. Ellsberg has said he made the Pentagon Papers, a secret history of the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War, available to the press in 1971 as a way to fuel opposition to American conduct.
        The three aides being tried on state charges in Judge Ringer's court were John D. Ehrlichman, formerly chief domestic adviser, and David R. Young Jr. and G. Gordon Liddy, who were members of a group called the ''plumbers,'' which was formed by the Nixon White House to investigate security leaks in 1971.
        The three defendants were charged with conspiracy and burglary for their role in a break-in in September 1971 in the office of a psychiatrist, Dr. Lewis Fielding, in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Ehrlichman was in charge of the ''plumbers'' at the time of the break-in, which was carried out in hopes of finding Mr. Ellsberg's psychiatric history.
        Nixon said he had established ''the plumbers'' after the publication of the Pentagon Papers in The New York Times and of articles elsewhere saying that Mr. Ellsberg had been the source of those documents.
        On Feb. 4, 1974, Judge Ringer signed legal papers ordering Nixon to testify at a pretrial hearing and then at the trial itself, on April 15. Legal experts said they believed the papers were the first ever issued by a state court to compel the personal testimony of a President. But, as things turned out, the case was supplanted by a Federal case that led to convictions and prison terms for Mr. Ehrlichman and Mr. Liddy.
        Judge Ringer was assistant state attorney general in charge of the Los Angeles office before being appointed to the judgeship in 1972.
        He married Virginia Hartt in 1953, and she died in 1991. Surviving is his son, Mark, of Manhattan.
      