
        Former Senator Albert Gore Sr., the father of the Vice President and a longtime powerful figure in the Democratic Party, died yesterday at his home in Carthage, Tenn., three weeks before his 91st birthday, the White House said.
        Vice President Gore and his wife, Tipper, were with Mr. Gore when he died, the White House said.
        From 1953 to 1970, Mr. Gore represented Tennessee in the Senate, where he was regarded as one of the the few liberals among Southern Democrats. His liberalism contributed to his defeat in 1970 in a bitter campaign in which the Republican victor, William E. Brock 3d, derided Mr. Gore's support of busing and civil rights legislation and his opposition to the war in Vietnam.
        That campaign was said to have been so nasty that it temporarily soured his son's view on politics. The younger Gore went on, however, to be elected to the House of Representatives, to the Senate and in 1992 to the Vice Presidency on the Clinton ticket.
        Albert Gore Sr. was born on Dec. 26, 1907, in the hill country near Granville, Tenn., and attended a one-room school in Possum Hollow. To raise money for college, he taught in a one-room mountain school before  entering Middle Tennessee State Teachers College, where he worked his way through school.
        The senior Mr. Gore's forebears, he said in a 1956 interview, ''came across the mountain'' after the American Revolution and ''started chopping timber.'' He added, ''I still chop a little now and then myself when my fences need mending.''
        Mr. Gore's first campaign for public office, when he was 23, was a bid for superintendent of schools in Smith County, Tenn. He lost the election and went back to work on his father's farm.
        His political career might have ended there, but a year later, the man who had defeated him died, and Mr. Gore was named to succeed him.
        That led Mr. Gore to think about higher office and, to prepare himself, he studied law in night classes at the  Y.M.C.A. in Nashville, and received a law degree in 1936. In 1938, he was elected to the House of Representatives.
        In 1952, Mr. Gore was elected to the Senate, where he did not fit into the mold of either the Northern liberals or the Southern conservatives. He was known as one of the Senate's best debaters and was considered a possible Vice Presidential nominee in 1956 and 1960, but he frequently found himself on the unpopular side of an issue.
        In 1969, for example, he voted against the confirmation of Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. to the Supreme Court although Mr. Haynsworth, who was nominated by President Richard M. Nixon, had ample support in Tennessee and although the Democrats had enough votes to block the nomination without Mr. Gore's support.
        In 1956, Mr. Gore was one of only three Senators from the South to refuse to sign a Southern manifesto protesting the Supreme Court's desegregation decision two years earlier. Siding with him were Lyndon B. Johnson and Estes Kefauver.
        In 1968, with Johnson now President and prosecuting the war in Vietnam, Mr. Gore said in a speech at the University of Idaho that the Administration should get out of the ''morass in Vietnam.''
        ''We are destroying the country we profess to be saving,'' he said.
        In a tribute last night, President Clinton described Mr. Gore as a public service role model ''who helped connect the South with the rest of America.''
        ''Albert Gore Sr. was the embodiment of everything public service ought to be,'' Mr. Clinton said.
        Although he had a hardscrabble beginning, Mr. Gore was financially successful in later life, running a profitable cattle-breeding farm in Tennessee.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Gore is survived by his wife of 61 years, Pauline La Fon Gore, three granddaughters and a grandson. His daughter, Nancy, died in 1984.
      