
        Abraham Feinberg, a businessman, philanthropist and supporter of Israel, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Feinberg rose from modest beginnings to become chairman of a New York-based apparel manufacturer, Kayser-Roth Corporation, and then chairman of American Bank and Trust Company, which was bought in 1978 by Bank Leumi, an Israeli institution. At his death he was chief executive of Central Bottling Corporation, a beverage-bottling business in Israel.
        He also invested in businesses based in the United States and in Israel and was involved in the construction of buildings in Manhattan and Israel.
        In the political world, he led many Democratic fund-raising drives. His family said he played an important role in providing financial support for President Harry S. Truman's successful whistle-stop campaign for re-election in 1948. In 1952, while the country was waiting to see whether President Truman would run again, Mr. Feinberg visited him at the White House and then told reporters the President had not made up his mind. Mr. Truman later declined his party's renomination.
        Mr. Feinberg was also long active in support for Israel and in philanthropy. After World War II, and before Israel was founded in 1948, he helped displaced European Jews to move on to what was then Palestine. He became president of Americans for Haganah, which was the military organization of the main Zionist movement. ''During that period,'' he said in a 1950 interview, ''I helped to mobilize support of all kinds for people who were fighting their great battle for independence.'' His family said that he was active in getting weapons for Haganah and that he also helped Israel acquire other military equipment in later years.
        He accompanied Chaim Weizmann, Israel's first president, to his first meeting with President Truman, and a substantial United States loan to Israel ensued, his family recalled. His family also said he had useful informal contacts with the Israeli and American Governments during some Middle East crises.
        In addition, Mr. Feinberg was for 17 years the chairman of the Development Corporation for Israel, also known as the Israel Bonds. He was also a major supporter of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and its chairman for 40 years.
        In 1960, when Mr. Feinberg was honored by B'nai B'rith as its Man of the Year, Mr. Truman observed that in addition to the good works by Mr. Feinberg that had been made public, ''I could name two or three times as many that he has done anonymously, without personal credit and always at sacrifice to himself.''
        One beneficiary of Mr. Feinberg's largess was Brandeis University, in Waltham, Mass., whose board of trustees he formerly headed. Earlier this year, his family said, he made it known that he was giving the university $13 million to set up an International Center for Ethics, Justice and Public Life with campuses in Massachusetts and Israel.
        He was also a former member of the New York City Board of Higher Education.
        Born and raised in the Bronx, he graduated from Townsend Harris High School there and had all his higher education at night: he attended City College and received law degrees in 1929 from Fordham and in 1936 from New York University.
        By day, he started out in the clothing industry on a modest scale working with his father in hosiery sales.
        Mr. Feinberg is survived by his wife of 69 years, the former Lillian Farber of Manhattan; one daughter, Judith Schneider Weissberg, a psychologist, of Manhattan; four grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; a brother, Wilfred, of Manhattan, who is former Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; and a sister, Belle Feinberg of Manhattan.
      