
        Robert M. Hunt, a former chief executive of the Tribune Company  died Dec. 27 at his home in Naples, Fla., from complications of diabetes. He was 69.
        Mr. Hunt, who was publisher of The Daily News of New York from 1979 to 1984, had been ill for some time, his wife, Sharon Hunt, said.
        Mr. Hunt joined the Tribune Company of Chicago at 22 as an advertising salesman in 1950. He rose through the ranks of the company, whose flagship paper is The Chicago Tribune, and became president and chief executive in 1975. Four years later, Mr. Hunt left Chicago to try to rescue The News, then owned by the Tribune Company.
        Damaged by a strike in 1978, The News was at that time in the odd position of being both the country's biggest metropolitan daily and also among the weakest. The News was losing its bedrock working-class readers to the suburbs and to papers like Newsday of Long Island and The  Star-Ledger of Newark. At the same time, New York advertisers were looking for a more upscale readership of the kind that The News' rival, The New York Post, was courting with an afternoon paper aimed at commuters. (The Post began a morning edition in 1980.)
        Indeed, Mr. Hunt's biggest gamble while at The News was his 1980 effort to produce a competing afternoon edition, Tonight, which featured soft news about life styles and slicker graphics than the main paper's rugged tabloid look. But the afternoon  edition won only about 70,000 new readers, not the 200,000 Mr. Hunt had hoped for, and the project was closed after less than a year.
        ''We gave it our best shot,'' Mr. Hunt said in August 1981. ''We went all out to produce the liveliest, most interesting editorial package we could, and, damn it, it didn't work.''  The venture lost $20 million and contributed to the paper's decline, which Mr. Hunt tried to forestall through layoffs and by winning concessions from the staff.
        He retired from the Tribune Company in 1985.
        In 1991, the Tribune Company sold The News to Robert Maxwell, the British publisher, after a five-month strike. The News sought bankruptcy protection after Mr. Maxwell died and his empire unraveled. The paper is now owned by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Fred Drasner.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hunt is survived by two daughters, Susan Hunt of Chicago and Jennifer Peskorse of Ballwin, Mo.; a son, Robert of Kalispell, Mont.; three stepsons, Kevin of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., Mark of Phoenix and Erik Vander Kolk of New York City; five grandchildren, and two sisters, Priscilla Sowler of Volcano, Hawaii -- his twin -- and Joan Nilsson of Seattle.
        Correction:  January 9, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Robert M. Hunt, a former newspaper executive, misspelled the surname of a surviving sister and misstated one of his titles. His twin sister, in Volcano, Hawaii, is Priscilla Fowler, not Sowler. Mr. Hunt was a former president and chief executive of The Chicago Tribune Company -- not of the parent Tribune Company.
      