
        Johnny Roventini, the little Brooklyn-born bellhop with the big bell-clear voice whose ''Call for Phil-lip Mor-ris,'' delighted radio audiences in the 1930's and 40's and made the cigarette into a household name, died on Monday at a hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 86 and had been under lifetime contract to the company since 1933.
        His family said the cause was complications from a facial infection.
        From the time Mr. Roventini first went on the air for Philip Morris, on the Ferde Grofe Show on April 17, 1933, until the cigarette company began to phase him out as a radio and television spokeman in the early 1950's, Mr. Roventini's was one of the most recognizable voices in the land. And with the picture of the little man in his bright red, gold-trimmed uniform plastered in store windows and in magazine ads he was one of the nation's most recognizable figures.
        Although the company liked to say it discovered him in the lobby of the New Yorker Hotel, until he became its spokesman the 22-year-old Mr. Roventini was more famous than Philip Morris.
        At 4 feet tall, he was billed as ''the world's smallest bellboy,'' and even had his picture on postcards.
        It was a pituitary gland disorder that halted his development before his voice changed and left him with a 12-year-old's body for the rest of his life, but it was his gregarious personality that helped make Mr. Roventini a favorite of the countless singers and other radio stars he introduced.
        After his retirement in 1974, Mr. Roventini, who never married, devoted himself to his sports cars and to the cabin cruisers he kept in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn.
        For the last few years he had lived with his brother Fred in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. His nephew, Philip Roventini, said his uncle, never more than a light social smoker, had not smoked at all in recent years but had remained a company man, indifferent to tobacco's link with health problems.
        Correction:  December 7, 1998, Monday  An obituary headline on Wednesday about Johnny Roventini, the famous bellman in cigarette advertising of the 1930's and 40's, misspelled the name of his product. It was Philip Morris, not Phillip.
      