
        Robert Marasco, a playwright and novelist who wrote the long-running Broadway thriller ''Child's Play,'' died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 62 and lived in High Falls, N.Y.
        He died of lung cancer, said his sister, Carole Melillo.
        ''Child's Play,'' an eerie melodrama about incidents of evil in a Roman Catholic boys' school, was a surprise success in 1970. Produced by David Merrick, it ran for 343 performances. Leading the cast were Fritz Weaver, Ken Howard, Pat Hingle and David Rounds. Both Mr. Weaver and Mr. Howard won Tony awards, as did Joseph Hardy for his direction and Jo Mielziner for the lighting and Gothic set design. Mr. Merrick subsequently produced the film version of the play, directed by Sidney Lumet and starring James Mason and Robert Preston.
        Mr. Marasco was born in the Bronx and graduated from Regis High School in Manhattan and Fordham University. He was a classical scholar and before writing the play taught Latin, Greek and English at Regis. When ''Child's Play'' was produced, he refused to reveal the name of his school because he thought that theatergoers would think the work was based on reality. It was, he said, fiction.
        In an interview, he said that the idea came from two sources: a newspaper clipping ''about a teacher who gave his kids some work to do and then jumped out of a classroom window'' and the film ''Torment'' (written by Ingmar Bergman), in which there was ''a sadistic Latin teacher.'' Originally titled ''The Dark,'' the play was scheduled to be directed by Harold Prince. After Mr. Prince dropped his option, Mr. Merrick signed the unknown playwright.
        When the author and his director met, Mr. Hardy asked him what his aim was in writing the play. Mr. Marasco said that it was to ''scare the hell out of everybody.'' Mr. Hardy said, ''You're on.'' Guided by the director, the author rewrote half the play, including the ending. In fact, there were so many changes that the production itself became a cliffhanger. The reviews, however, were generally positive. In his review in The New York Times, Clive Barnes said it was ''a wonderfully powerful melodrama that will thrill audiences for a long time to come.''
        Mr. Marasco had previously written several unproduced plays. ''Child's Play'' enabled him to become a full-time writer. In 1973, he published his first novel, ''Burnt Offerings,'' about a family that rents an elegant haunted house for the summer. Reviewing it in The Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt said, ''It made my skin crawl, there were some pages I simply didn't want to turn, and I had a deliciously awful time.'' In 1976 the novel was turned into a Bette Davis film.
        Mr. Marasco also wrote the novel ''Parlor Games'' and several unproduced screenplays. Before his death, he had completed a new play, ''Our Sally.''
        In addition to his sister, of Elmont, N.Y., he is survived by his father, Anthony, of Whitestone, N.Y.
        Mr. Marasco's success as an author of works of menace took him by surprise. He originally thought of himself as a writer of comedy. As he said about ''Burnt Offerings,'' ''I thought it would be a black comedy, but it just came out black.''
      