
        D. Tennant Bryan, the former chairman and founder of Media General Inc., the Richmond-based newspaper, television and communications company, died Wednesday at his home in Richmond. He was 92.
        Mr. Bryan began his career in 1928 as a reporter for The Richmond News Leader, the family-owned afternoon newspaper, which later merged with the morning Richmond Times-Dispatch. He was a third-generation newspaper publisher, who through his newspapers was a leading voice against school desegregation in Virginia in the mid-1950's.
        His role in the 1980's as the builder of a company with a large television component might have surprised publishers who heard Mr. Bryan address the American Newspaper Publishers Association in 1960.
        Nearing the end of two years as president of the association, Mr. Bryan warned that the troubles of the broadcasting industry, which was experiencing a quiz-show scandal and other problems, were caused by its inability to separate the influence of advertisers from programming.
        Newspapers' editorial independence from the influence of advertisers was crucial to maintaining credibility and dominance, Mr. Bryan said. ''It has now become abundantly clear that neither television nor any other existing medium can displace the newspaper, which along with food and utilities remains an indispensable daily service in the home,'' he said in his address.
        Mr. Bryan was not above hedging his bets, however. In 1966, Richmond Newspapers Inc., the family holding company, sold stock to the public, and three years later Media General was created as a holding company for the family's expanding interests.
        Today, in addition to 21 daily newspapers, including The Tampa Tribune in Florida and The Winston-Salem Journal in North Carolina, Media General owns 14 broadcast television stations, including WFLA-TV in Tampa, and cable operations with about 235,000 subscribers in Virginia. Media General also has interests in newsprint plants, recycling operations and on-line communications.
        Mr. Bryan's son, J. Stewart Bryan 3d, became publisher of the newspapers in 1978 and succeeded his father as chairman of Media General in 1990. A Bryan family trust has maintained control of the company through its ownership of a majority of a special class of shares.
        He is also survived by two daughters, Mary Tennant Bryan Perkins of Richmond and Florence Bryan Fowlkes of Chevy Chase, Md.; three grandchildren and a great-grandson. His wife, the former Mary Harkness Davidson, died in 1987.
        David Tennant Bryan was born on Aug. 3, 1906, in Richmond. He attended the University of Virginia for three years before joining The News Leader. After working his way up through positions meant to prepare him to be publisher, Mr. Bryan resigned as vice president and general manager of Richmond Newspapers in 1942 to join the Navy. He served as an officer in the Pacific.
        While Mr. Bryan was on active duty in 1944, his father, John Stewart Bryan, died, and two years later Mr. Bryan returned to Richmond Newspapers as publisher and president. He remained chairman of Media General from its founding until July 1990 and was a board member until last year.
        Mr. Bryan was known in the newspaper industry as a fierce defender of access to government information. In 1966, he led a trade group's fight against a recommendation by a panel of the American Bar Association for sharp restrictions on the access of the press to pretrial hearings and information about individuals charged with, but not yet tried for, crimes. In 1968, the recommendations were endorsed by the bar association's House of Delegates and by the Judicial Conference of the United States.
        Despite the company's expansion across the Southeast, Mr. Bryan remained closely identified with Virginia. His newspapers were leading supporters of the campaign of ''massive resistance'' to racial integration in public schools in the mid-1950's.
        The News Leader and its conservative editor, James J. Kilpatrick, now a syndicated columnist, advocated total defiance of the Supreme Court's integration edicts, backing Gov. J. Lindsay Almond Jr.'s determination to preserve separate schools for white and black students.
        But Mr. Bryan was said to have later renounced the position. A biographical article in The Richmond Times-Dispatch this week said, ''In recent years, Mr. Bryan and Kilpatrick acknowledged that they had gone too far'' in opposing integration.
      