
        John Addison, an English composer whose score for the 1963 film ''Tom Jones'' won an Oscar and whose theme music for ''Murder She Wrote'' won an Emmy, died on Monday at a hospital in Bennington, Vt. He was 78 and lived in Bennington.
        The cause of death was a stroke, said James Goldstone, a director for whom Mr. Addison supplied music and a friend of the family.
        Mr. Addison was born in Chobham, England, in 1920 and studied at Wellington College and the Royal College of Music in London. Early in his career he composed symphonic and chamber works, including a ballet, ''Carte Blanche,'' and Concerto for Trumpet, Strings and Percussion.
        His interest in concert music was rekindled in recent years after he moved to Vermont from California, where he had lived since 1976. His Bassoon Concertina was given its world premiere last summer by the Halle Orchestra in Manchester, England.
        Beginning in the 1950's, though, Mr. Addison was drawn most strongly to theater and film, and later to television and to the idea of writing music that helped create atmosphere and character.
        He was known for an approach to scoring that favored small ensembles, often with single instruments being associated with specific characters.
        His works for the London stage included incidental scores for Laurence Olivier's staging of ''Hamlet'' at the National Theater, and new songs for Brecht's ''St. Joan in the Stockyards.'' Several of the plays for which he wrote music were staged in New York after their first successes in London. These included John Osborne's ''Luther'' and ''The Entertainer'' and a John Cranko revue, ''Cranks.''
        Mr. Addison wrote scores for more than 70 British and American films, among them ''Torn Curtain,'' ''Seven Days to Noon,'' ''The Charge of the Light Brigade,'' ''Sleuth,'' ''Swashbuckler,'' ''A Bridge Too Far,'' ''Start the Revolution Without Me'' and ''A Taste of Honey.''
        When the British film industry went through a dry spell in the mid-1970's, Mr. Addison and his family moved to California, where he began adding television scores to his works list.
        Among his best-known television scores are themes for ''Murder She Wrote'' and ''Nero Wolfe,'' and music for ''Pearl,'' ''Centennial'' and ''Charles and Diana: A Royal Love Story.''
        He is survived by his wife, Pamela; two sons, Jonathan, of Hastings, England, and Daniel, of London; a stepson, Rex Birchenough of Peterborough, England; a daughter, Lucinda Sanderson of Paris; a stepdaughter, Sandra Stapleton of Leamington Spa, England, and a sister, Jill Lucas of London.
      