
        William F. Baxter, who as head of the antitrust division of the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan brought the sharp edge of economic analysis to bear on enforcement decisions, died on Friday at his home in Los Altos, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was complications from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Carol Cairns Baxter.
        Mr. Baxter was the head of the antitrust division from 1981 through 1983. Despite intense objections of lawyers at the Justice Department, he dismissed the 13-year-old suit against I.B.M., concluding that the Government's case made no sense long after I.B.M. had lost dominance in the computer industry. Mr. Baxter also aggressively pressed AT&T to settle its antitrust battle by splitting off the parent company that operated in the long-distance market from the regional companies that monopolized local phone service. That decision was opposed by powerful members of Mr. Reagan's Cabinet.
        Paul Joskow, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, credited the breakup of AT&T with not only transforming the telecommunications industry but also creating the ''intellectual template against which other sectors -- like electric power and natural gas -- would later be reformed.''
        Lawrence J. White, a professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University and chief economist at the antitrust division under Mr. Baxter, also credits Mr. Baxter with vigorous prosecution of price-fixing, including prosecuting Robert Crandall, the president of American Airlines, for inviting the chairman of Braniff Airways to join forces to raise air fares. The suit was novel because Braniff had rejected Mr. Crandall's invitation, leaving no price-fixing for Mr. Baxter to prosecute. But Mr. Baxter convinced an appeals court that even an offer to fix prices represented an illegal attempt to monopolize.
        Mr. Baxter's colleagues said that merger guidelines issued by his division in 1982 were his most enduring achievement. Professor Joskow said that they set a foundation for analyzing mergers both in the United States and other industrialized countries. The guidelines provided a blueprint for antitrust action. No longer would  the Government oppose a merger out of a vague sense that a combined company lacked competitors or was too large and would squash smaller concerns. The guidelines established clear questions, focusing on the effect of the merger on consumer prices, that the antitrust authorities would need to answer with state-of-the-art economic analysis.
        Mr. Baxter's decisions on I.B.M. and AT&T were widely applauded within the economics profession. But some experts criticized Mr. Baxter for refusing to challenge vertical mergers -- mergers between companies and their suppliers or distributors -- and so-called vertical restraints like resale price maintenance -- the practice of dictating a price below which manufacturers would not allow wholesalers or retailers to charge. Mr. Baxter thought that such practices rarely harmed consumers because they could turn to products of other manufacturers.  Yet, he said, resale price maintenance could benefit consumers. For example, it could prevent discounters from driving out of the market those retailers that provided extra service, the cost of which could be passed into their prices.
        But even F. Michael Scherer of Harvard University, a critic of Mr. Baxter's attitude toward vertical restraints, said that they were rarely a significant threat to consumers.
        Mr. Baxter was born in New York City and spent most of his academic career at Stanford, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1951, a law degree in 1956 and joined the faculty of the law school in 1960. He served in the Navy between 1951 and 1954. He served as a consultant to Citibank and helped write an acclaimed 1977 book on the economic and regulatory issues emerging from the growth of credit cards.
        Mr. Baxter did not back away from controversy. He filed a brief before the Supreme Court calling on it to give more leeway to manufacturers to engage in practices like resale price maintenance despite the fact that at least one member of Congress was calling for his resignation over the issue. He declared that the Supreme Court had based opinions on ''wacko economic propositions'' and that there was ''no respectable academic support for the outmoded, jerry-built, amateur, pseudo-economic propositions that underlies some antitrust options.''
        Peter Temin, an economic historian at M.I.T. who interviewed Mr. Baxter extensively for a 1987 book about AT&T, said that Mr. Baxter was ''very convinced of his point of view -- not someone troubled by doubts or introspection.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Baxter is survived by a stepson, Bernard Treanor; three children by a previous marriage to Barbara Metzger Baxter, William F. Baxter 3d, Marcia Baxter Bearman and Stuart C. Baxter; three grandchildren; a brother, Donald J. Baxter, and a sister, Janice Adams.
      