
        Louis A. Delgado Jr., a playwright who wove his experiences with drug addiction and his life on the street into his work, died on Dec. 1 at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 55 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was diabetes-related liver failure, said Ed Vega, president of the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center in Manhattan, where Mr. Delgado's latest play, ''Juanita's Trip,'' recently completed a three-week run.
        Mr. Delgado, who was born in the Bronx, overcame 23 years of addiction and damaged family relationships by turning to writing.
        ''I woke up in the Tombs 15 years ago with my eyes practically out of my head,'' he told a reporter for The New York Times in April, recounting his time in jail. ''I had to decide if I wanted to die a junkie or get my life together.''
        He wrote a series of plays whose underlying theme was hope, reconciliation and understanding. ''A Better Life,'' for example, focuses on the relationship between two hospitalized men from disparate backgrounds who shared the bond of H.I.V. In ''Tony and Son,'' a father  leaves his son and ultimately seeks a reunion.
        In 1996 he won an Obie for ''El Cano,'' which has run at Repertorio Espanol in Manhattan for three years. The play centers on a blond,  blue-eyed Puerto Rican living in the continental United States who denies his culture to gain acceptance in the workplace.
        Mr. Delgado's last work, ''Juanita's Trip,'' is based on the family of his companion, the actress Marilyn Cruz. His health failing, the playwright made a cameo appearance in every performance at the Velez Cultural Center except the final night.
        ''He was the type of man who would say in his interviews, 'If I can do it, anyone can,' '' said Veronica Caicedo, who directed and produced several of his plays. ''He was just a powerful force, struggling always for the community.''
        Mr. Delgado, who had served in the Air Force, was also a program director at Damon House in Brooklyn, a therapeutic community for recovering addicts. In addition to Ms. Cruz, he is survived by a daughter,  Lisa, of New Jersey, and three sons,  Louis, of Naples, Fla., and Stephen and Daniel, both of Queens.
      