
        Mohammad T. Mehdi, an outspoken critic of Israel who was often quoted in the press and also spoke on radio and television, died on Monday. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Mehdi collapsed in the foyer of a midtown Manhattan office building, his family said, and Paul Giffone of the New York Funeral Service said he died of cardiac arrest in the emergency room of Bellevue Medical Center.
        Dr. Mehdi was widely known as M. T. Mehdi. At his death he was president of the American-Arab Relations Committee and secretary general of the National Council on Islamic Affairs, which he had founded to spur political awareness and action among Muslims in the United States, his daughter Anisa Mehdi said.
        Over years, he took public positions on a wide variety of subjects involving the Middle East, Arab-Americans, Muslims and Islam, and he became an adviser to Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the radical Muslim cleric linked to the World Trade Center bombing.
        Dr. Mehdi's views generated strong criticism and praise.
        Abraham H. Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, a Jewish organization, said yesterday, ''Representing the National Council on Islamic Affairs, Mehdi was a vocal supporter of the sheik, who one could describe as the spiritual leader of the World Trade Center bombers -- the blind sheik who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.''
        James J. Zogby, president of the Washington-based Arab-American Institute, said of Dr. Mehdi: ''There was a kind of creativity and a sparkle to his eyes. Before any of us who are now in this kind of work -- advocacy on behalf a different U.S. policy in the Middle East -- he was out there, and there were times when he was physically beaten and threatened, but he stayed with it and kept challenging us all.''
        Dr. Mehdi was sometimes stinging in his criticism of Israel and its supporters. In an interview years ago, he said, speaking of the Action Committee on American-Arab Relations, a precursor of the American-Arab Relations Committee: ''We make a 100 percent difference between the person who is a Jew and that who is a Zionist. Zionists are neurotic, sick people. Most Jews are sick people and would benefit from Dr. Freud's couch.'' Dr. Mehdi has also been quoted as asserting that ''New York is a Zion town'' and ''the real father of Israel is Hitler.''
        Mr. Foxman of the Anti-Defamation League said, ''He was a lifelong Arab propagandist, a one-man organization without any constituency except for the media, who needed an Arab spokesman in New York on any occasion when the Arab delegations or ambassadors would not talk.''
        Dr. Mehdi was a plaintiff in a court suit that was settled after the New York City Board of Education agreed in 1997 to encourage schools to display the star and crescent symbol associated with Islam as part of displays of symbols of Christmas, Hanukkah and other holidays.
        The settlement was widely seen as indicating the growing prominence of Muslim culture in New York City. Dr. Mehdi and two other Muslims had brought the Federal lawsuit a year and a half earlier. They said they did so after finding that some districts and schools were refusing to include the star and crescent symbol in holiday displays.
        Dr. Mehdi moved to this country as a young man to study at the University of California at Berkeley and received a doctorate in political science there in 1961. After working in Arab League information offices in San Francisco and New York, he founded the Action Committee on American-Arab Relations.
        Dr. Mehdi's 1968 book, ''Kennedy and Sirhan: Why?'' (New World Press), was described by a critic for The New York Times, Eliot Fremont-Smith, as ''truly shocking.'' In the review, Mr. Fremont-Smith called the work ''a bizarre tract sponsored by the Action Committee on American-Arab Relations, which argues that Senator Kennedy was a victim of Zionism and of an 'immoral' exchange of sympathy for Israel for Jewish votes at home, and that in shooting him, Sirhan B. Sirhan acted certainly illegally and unwisely but not necessarily immorally.''
        Dr. Mehdi's 1953 marriage to Beverlee Turner, an American, ended in divorce in 1980.
        In addition to his daughter Anisa,  of Maplewood, N.J., Dr. Mehdi is survived by two other daughters, Janan Chandler of Mississauga in the Canadian province of Ontario and Laila Hilfinger of Seattle, and seven grandchildren.
      