
        Charles E. Rose, who prosecuted bank robbers, narcotics traffickers,  terrorists and organized-crime figures in 15 years with the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 51.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his sister, Marilyn Duer.
        From 1994 to his death, Mr. Rose was a partner in the Manhattan law firm of De Feis, O'Connell & Rose, and he specialized in defense litigation in white-collar crime and some organized-crime cases.
        He was with the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District from 1979 to 1994 and held the titles of assistant United States attorney, deputy chief and chief of the office's narcotics section, senior litigation counsel and executive assistant United States attorney.
        Police Commissioner Howard Safir said yesterday, through a spokesman: ''Charlie Rose was the finest prosecutor I ever worked with. He was smart, dedicated and a cop's prosecutor.''
        In Mr. Rose's early years in the United States Attorney's office he prosecuted bank robbers and worked with the F.B.I.-New York Police Department joint task force on bank robbery. Later, he shifted to supervising the prosecution of cases developed by the Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in a joint task force on terrorism. In that role he was concerned mainly with a group seeking independence for Puerto Rico, whose bombing targets included the headquarters of the New York City Police Department and the F.B.I. headquarters at Federal Plaza, and also with an anarchist group, the United Freedom Front. In 1986, Freedom Front members were tried and convicted.
        Mr. Rose went on to work on cases involving heroin trafficking in organized crime. Later, he was prominent in the prosecution of reputed Mafia figures including Vincent Gigante, who was arrested in 1990 on Federal charges that he conspired with 14 other reputed gangsters to rig bids and extort payoffs from contractors on multimillion-dollar bids with the New York City Housing Authority.
        A superseding indictment in 1993 accused Mr. Gigante of sanctioning the murders of six mobsters and plotting to kill three others, including John J. Gotti, the Gambino boss who was his former archrival.
        By early 1997, after Mr. Rose had stopped being a prosecutor, all defendants in the conspiracy case had been convicted or acquitted -- except for Mr. Gigante, whose case had been delayed by hearings about whether he was mentally deranged. Eventually he was tried on various charges and convicted.
        Mr. Rose was born and raised in the Bronx, received a bachelor's degree in 1968 from Cornell, a master's degree in 1976 in criminology from the State University of New York at Albany and his law degree in 1979 from Brooklyn Law School.
        Besides his sister, of St. Peter's, Pa., he is survived by his mother, Marie L. Rose of Hohokus, N.J.; his wife, the former Carol Mennie, from whom he was long separated; and his fiancee, Elaine Banar of Manhattan .
      