
        Lew Grade, an immigrant boy from the slums of London's East End who rose to become Britain's biggest impresario of popular entertainment, died here today at the age of 91.
        Founder of Britain's first commercially financed television company, Lord Grade, who was knighted in 1963 and given a life peerage in 1976, demonstrated his affinity for the common touch as much with his buoyant personality as with his TV series and movies.
        His balding profile, with a trademark nine-inch cigar clenched in his teeth, inspired the affection that the jowly silhouette of Alfred Hitchcock once did. A set piece of London film premieres was Lord Grade emerging in a wreath of smoke from his 1971 Phantom Six Rolls-Royce.
        He demonstrated a talent for reinventing himself, springing back from defeat and dispelling doom with humor. When one of his biggest gambles, the $30 million movie ''Raise the Titanic,'' sank under the weight of dismissive reviews in 1980, he famously said, ''It would have been cheaper to lower the Atlantic.''
        Lord Grade, who broke into show business as a champion Charleston  dancer in 1926, was until last month still showing up for 10-hour workdays and lighting the first of his seven daily Monte Cristos in his office at 7:30 A.M.
        He was born in 1906 to Golda and Isaac Winogradsky in the Ukrainian town of Tokmak. He was 6 when his Jewish family fled czarist Russia for London. At 14 he left school and joined his father in the rag business. He pursued dancing to the stage of the Albert Hall where in 1926 he won a contest and became the Charleston Champion of the World. For the next five years he worked as a hoofer, performing throughout Europe. Water on the knee ended this early career, and in 1934 he embarked on another, joining his brother Leslie in founding the Grade Organization, which became the biggest show business agency in Britain.
        Lord Grade was responsible for booking people like Bob Hope, Jack Benny, Judy Garland, Mario Lanza and Danny Kaye into the London Palladium. In 1955, he founded Associated Television, the first such commercially financed company in Britain, to compete with the British Broadcasting Corporation. From the outset, he aimed at providing more lighthearted entertainment than the  BBC offerings, and later, when commercial television expanded into serious undertakings, Lord Grade's end of the business was thought of cozily by Britons as the ''song and dance'' side.
        Associated Television became Associated Communications Corporation, an international group with 5,000 employees and annual turnover of $420 million, but he lost control in 1982 in a bitter dispute with the Australian financial entrepreneur Robert Holmes a Court.
        He became chairman and chief executive of Embassy Communications International, the London headquarters of Embassy Communications, a group of entertainment companies based in Los Angeles. When Coca-Cola bought Embassy, Lord Grade set up the Grade Company, which was the co-producer of Andrew Lloyd Webber's ''Starlight Express'' on Broadway. He was also elected a vice president of the Loews group of movie theaters.
        He produced some of the most popular television shows on both sides of the Atlantic, including Britain's first twice-weekly soap opera, ''Emergency Ward 10,'' ''The Muppets,'' ''The Saint,'' ''The Persuaders,'' ''Robin Hood,'' ''Sunday Night at the London Palladium,'' ''Coronation Street'' and ''Space 1999.'' Movies he produced included ''The Muppet Movie,'' ''On Golden Pond,'' ''Sophie's Choice,'' ''The Eagle has Landed'' and two Pink Panther films.
        The Grade family came to dominate show business in Britain. Lew Grade's younger brother Bernard, also a Lord, was head of EMI, then became chief of Trusthouse Forte's leisure division, which he bought out in 1983 to form First Leisure Corporation. Michael Grade, a nephew of Lord Grade, cut a swath through British television, becoming in turn director of programs for London Weekend Television, the BBC and finally the chief executive of Channel 4.
        Lord Grade is survived by his wife, Kathie, a son, Paul, and two grandchildren.
        Marcia Stanton, Lord Grade's assistant for the past 35 years, said today that her greatest recollection would be her boss's humor. ''He was asked at a public event what he wanted on his gravestone,'' she said. ''Quick as a flash he replied, 'I don't want to go.' ''
      