
        Albert Frey, an early ambassador to America of the International Style of architecture who later brought its themes to buildings in harmony with the American desert, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif., his executor, F. Gillar Boyd Jr., said.
        He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Frey belonged to a generation that believed in a political role for modern architecture, that of social liberation through machine-made, egalitarian and affordable designs. His chosen materials were aluminum, glass, cables and, eventually, the very boulders and sands of the desert where he settled.
        In a career that spanned more than 65 years, Mr. Frey remained true to the principle that architecture should make the most of the least. His best known works were the East Coast houses he designed with Lawrence Kocher in the 1930's and the many buildings he created in the Palm Springs of the 1940's, 50's and 60's.
        ''He was the last of a generation of European architects that came to the West Coast envisioning that, in this unformed landscape, a perfected vision of a modern future could bloom,'' said Terence Riley, chief curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art.
        Albert Frey was born in Zurich on Oct. 18, 1903. He studied architecture at the Institute of Technology in Winterthur, Switzerland, and received his degree in 1924. In 1929 he spent about 10 months working in the Paris atelier of Le Corbusier, where he worked on the detailing of one of Le Corbusier's masterworks, the Villa Savoye.
        In 1930, Mr. Frey came to the United States, convinced that it was the land of opportunity for modernist design. While in New York, he met Marion E. Cook, a writer, and they were married from 1938 to 1944.
        In New York, he worked for several prominent architects, including Philip Goodwin, one of the architects of the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Frey is credited by his biographer with contributing to the design of the original Roy and Niuta Titus Theater as well as of the museum's roof deck, with its distinctive circular cut-outs. Both are to be restored by Yoshio Taniguchi, the architect of the museum's latest expansion plans.
        But it was the 1931 Aluminaire house that drew critical and popular attention to Mr. Frey and his collaborator Mr. Kocher, then the managing editor of Architectural Record. Commissioned by the Architectural League as a way to promote modernist housing ideas, the Aluminaire House was one of only two American houses represented in Philip Johnson and Henry-Russell Hitchcock's landmark 1932 museum show, ''International Exhibition: Modern Architecture.''
        In 1987, with modernism in disfavor, the aluminum and glass house was about to be destroyed when the New York Institute of Technology rescued it and moved it to the West Islip, N.J., campus of the New York institute, where it was dismantled. It is now under reconstruction at the school.
        In 1939, Mr. Frey moved to Palm Springs. He became part of the movement championed by other California modernists including John Lautner to emphasize the central place of nature in modern architecture.
        For Mr. Frey, the desert was his true love. ''When I saw the landscape of the desert, I knew I found a place I could call home,'' he said to Joseph Rosa, author of a 1990 biography of Mr. Frey.
        Numerous buildings by Mr. Frey helped transform Palm Springs into a mecca of what might be called leisure modernism comparable to Miami Beach.
        Notable projects there included the Palm Springs City Hall, designed in partnership with John Porter Clark and Robson Chambers; the Raymond Loewy house, done for the famous industrial designer along with Mr. Clark, and the Tramway Valley Station and Gas Station, another project with Mr. Chambers, which has a hyperbolic paraboloid roof that serves as the visual gateway to the city.
        His own homes, Frey 1 and Frey 2, encapsulated the man in their spare elegance perfectly attuned to the landscape.
        Both houses are made of corrugated aluminum and glass. Frey I, which has been substantially altered over the years by subsequent owners, featured a stairway and dining table suspended by cables from the ceiling. Frey 2, where the architect lived from the 60's on, is centered on a single room built around a boulder.
        With the resurgent interest in modernism in the last decade, Mr. Frey is once again in vogue. This fall a monograph on his homes was published and there was an exhibition on the Aluminaire house at the Architectural League.
        In retirement since 1990, he nevertheless agreed last summer to do some house sketches for an executive at Gucci. He is survived by a sister, Emma Schneider, of Herrliberg, Switzerland.
      