
        Carlos Abraham Foster, a real-life urban cowboy who toured the rodeo circuit around New York and started a program to teach city children about riding as a way to counter the dangers of drugs and AIDS, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76 and had let it be known in August that he was hanging up his spurs.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Foster was raised on a cattle ranch in Oriente Province, Cuba, where he became an expert rider and cowboy. After years of raising cattle and breaking horses, he joined the Mexican rodeo circuit.
        In 1960, he came to the United States. After learning English, he worked first at the drug rehabilitation center Horizon House and then for 10 years as director of community relations for the New York City Drug Addiction Services Agency.
        But he still considered himself a cowboy.
        ''When I first came here, I was a janitor because I couldn't speak English right,'' he said in 1983. ''But I bought a horse right away, before I bought a car.' (His family listed his beloved palomino horse, Santiago, as one of his survivors.)
        By then he had started the Urban Western Riding Program, renting horses at a stable on Pelham Parkway and rewarding children with riding lessons if they did their homework and stayed away from drugs. On the theory that youngsters did not see black cowboys like him very often, he brought in other black rodeo performers for parades and exhibitions.
        A tall man who liked to wear a Stetson hat and full cowboy regalia, he organized rodeos under the auspices of the Federation of Black Cowboys throughout the New York City region. He talked to children about black cowboys during school appearances and programs observing Black History Month in Harlem.
        ''The major point is that black cowboys helped build the Old West; there were 5,000 of them,'' he said in 1983, citing the book ''The Black West'' by William Loren Katz. ''It was a mean, dirty, low-paying job.''
        Mr. Foster eventually had a theater-dance presentation dedicated to him. In 1984, an improvisational Off Broadway happening, ''Cowboys, Dreams and Ladders,'' by Ishmael Houston-Jones and Fred Holland, invoked Mr. Foster's name, exploring images of the West, from real cowboys to dream versions.
        Mr. Foster was also honored in August at the Mind-Builders 10th annual Community Folk Arts Festival in the Bronx.
        Mr. Foster's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of more than 30 years, the former Gladys Coombs; five sons, Roland, of New City, N.Y., and Carlos Jr., Eduardo, Pablo and Ruben of the Bronx, and four daughters, Jeraldine Ocasio of the Bronx; Diana Elena Matsoukas of Hackensack, N.J.; Miriam Clark of Montclair, N.J., and Marcia Luisa Foster of Guantanamo, Cuba.
        He is also survived by two brothers, Rodolfo and Pedro, of Miami; a sister, Catalina McCook, also of Miami; 21 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren.
      