
        Leonard Moos Rieser, a physicist who helped usher in the nuclear age with the Manhattan Project and crusaded to curb the arsenals it spawned, died on Tuesday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 76 and lived in Norwich, Vt.
        The cause was cancer, said officials at Dartmouth College, where he was a professor and administrator for 46 years.
        Dr. Rieser (pronounced REE-zer) helped steer Dartmouth through a period of considerable growth. He was nationally known as president and chairman of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in the 1970's and was chairman of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists from 1985 until his retirement in June.
        He joined the Dartmouth faculty in 1952, was appointed professor of physics in 1960 and retired in 1992. After his retirement, he remained with Dartmouth as a senior fellow of the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, which he had served as founding director, beginning in 1984.
        Dr. Rieser's administrative service spanned 25 years, during which he was chairman of the physics department, deputy provost for the sciences, dean of the faculty and provost.
        A native Chicagoan, Leonard Rieser graduated with a degree in physics from the University of Chicago in 1943, and was then posted by the Army to the Manhattan Project, which produced the first nuclear chain reaction in 1942 and ultimately developed the atomic bomb.
        He worked at the Manhattan Project's metallurgical laboratory in Chicago and at the Los Alamos Laboratory in New Mexico, where he witnessed the first atomic explosion.
        After the war he worked as a researcher for the physicist Otto Frisch at Los Alamos and received his doctorate in physics from Stanford University in 1952.
        As chairman of the Bulletin of the Atomic Sciences, Dr. Rieser was seen in many news photographs resetting the publication's ''Doomsday Clock'' to dramatize the threat of nuclear annihilation and the need for peaceful alternatives to nuclear conflict.
        He did so one more time in June in response to the test explosions set off by India and Pakistan, advancing the clock by five minutes to 11:51 P.M. and warning of ''perilous times.''
        Dr. Rieser is survived by his wife of 54 years, Rosemary Littledale Rieser; a daughter, Abigail, of Northampton, Mass.; three sons, Leonard, of Philadelphia, Timothy S., of Washington, and Kenneth Willis of Princeton, N.J.; two brothers, Lawrence, of Jackson, Wyo., and William, of Perkasie, Pa., and three granddaughters.
      