
        Antonio Ordonez, a leading bullfighter in the 1950's and the last survivor of the dueling matadors chronicled by  Hemingway in ''The Dangerous Summer,'' died on Saturday in a Seville hospital. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, the Spanish news media reported.
        Mr. Ordonez, who was widely considered the top bullfighter of his day for his impeccable and daring capework, was the son of another famous matador, Cayetano Ordonez, whose exploits Hemingway depicted in his 1926 novel ''The Sun Also Rises.''
        Antonio Ordonez, who also became a close friend of Orson Welles, married Carmen Dominguin, the sister of his chief rival, Luis Miguel Dominguin, in 1953.
        Mr. Ordonez and Mr. Dominguin  traveled together from one Spanish ring to the next in the summer of 1959, with Hemingway in tow, fighting bulls before rapt audiences. Hemingway's book seemed to favor Mr. Ordonez over Mr. Dominguin, who died in 1996 at age 69.
        ''Antonio's first bull came out and he took him with the cape as though he were inventing bullfighting and it was going to be absolutely perfect from the start,'' Hemingway wrote about a fight in the southern city of Malaga in 1959. ''It was how he fought all summer.''
        ''That day in Malaga, he surpassed himself again and he made poetry of movement with the hunting, seeking, pressing mass of the bull.''
        Mr. Ordonez's style also captivated Welles, and their friendship was so close that after Welles's death in 1985, his ashes were scattered in 1987 at Mr. Ordonez's ranch in Ronda.
        Antonio Ordonez was born in Ronda, a southern town with deep bullfighting roots. His family moved to Seville when he was 6. He began fighting bulls in 1948. In 1951, he took the ''alternativa,'' the test in the bullring to become a full-fledged matador, who would face the oldest, largest and fiercest bulls.
        By his retirement in 1971, he had appeared in more than 1,000 bullfights, killing more than 2,000 bulls. He was gored in the ring at least eight times during the 1950's, his peak decade, although his fame and deft technique kept him as a top-billed fighter through the first half of the 1960's.
        Mr. Ordonez also fought in Peru, Colombia, Venezuela and Mexico, but perhaps the warmest praise came from his fellow Spaniards.
        ''Antonio Ordonez is a natural bullfighter,'' wrote Jose Maria de Cossio  in his 1967 edition of ''The Bulls, a Technical and Historical Treatment,'' considered the authoritative encyclopedia on bullfighting. ''Nothing violent, forced or superfluous in his style. He practices bullfighting with a perfection, a charm or severity -- his art is at once joyful and deep -- that touches on the miraculous.''
        Mr. Ordonez's marriage to Carmen Dominguin expanded their bullfighting dynasty. They had two daughters, Carmen and Belen, each of whom married a bullfighter, and who survive him.
        Mr. Ordonez's grandson, Francisco Rivera Ordonez, is currently one of the leading matadors in Spain.
        After the death of his first wife, Mr. Ordonez remarried, in 1983, to Pilar Lezcano, a civil servant, who also survives him.
        In 1981, he briefly toyed with the idea of a comeback to the ring but did not go beyond some initial training sessions.
        Even before his retirement, Mr. Ordonez laid the groundwork to stay deeply involved in bullfighting. He  owned a home in Seville next to that city's bullring. He also bred fighting bulls on his ranch and later become the owner and fight promoter for the ring in Ronda, where his ashes were to be scattered on Monday.
      