
        Mel Fisher, a former chicken farmer who became a Horatio Alger figure among undersea treasure hunters, died on Saturday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 76.
        The cause was complications from cancer, the Mel Fisher museum in Key West announced.
        Mr. Fisher found hundreds of thousands of gold and silver coins, jewelry and bars from old-time Spanish shipwrecks in the waters off Florida. He hunted doggedly for years for the cargo of a single treasure-packed galleon, the Nuestra Senora de Atocha, which sank in 1622 near the Florida Keys. Eventually his son Kane located the underwater bounty in 1985, and treasure worth roughly $400 million was recovered. As a result, a handful of people, including Fisher family members, investors, and a lawyer for Mr. Fisher, David Paul Horan, became millionaires.
        When asked why he had chosen his risky and uncertain trade, Mr. Fisher often said, ''For the fun, the romance and the adventure.'' While he searched for treasure he liked to say hopefully, and repeatedly, ''Today is the day.'' Another, brisker, motto was ''Finders keepers.''
        He was known for his optimism despite skeptical investors, mixed luck in the law courts, a leaky houseboat-home, debts and far greater sorrows: a son and daughter-in-law died when their boat tipped in 1975.
        Mr. Fisher's success in discovering treasure and in winning title under traditional admiralty law led environmentalists, historians and archeologists to persuade Congress and states to control salvage. In 1987 Congress approved the Abandoned Shipwreck Act, which put an end to admiralty law and conveyed to states the title to wrecks within three miles of the coastline.
        By last summer, new regulations were putting shipwrecks off limits, or making them hard to retrieve, along the American coastline, where laissez-faire had traditionally prevailed. By June 1998, of thousands of known wrecks, fewer than 20 were under salvage permit -- and half were Mr. Fisher's.
        Last month Mr. Fisher admitted selling several counterfeit gold coins at his gift shop in Key West, and agreed to repay to purchasers the prices of the coins -- $2,500 to $10,000. It had been asserted that they were from a 1733 Spanish fleet that went aground off the Florida Keys.
        In a negotiated plea, Crystals of Delaware, a sales subsidiary of a company owned by Mr. Fisher, pledged that it would put on sale only coins that had been recovered from shipwrecks to which it had Federal salvage rights.
        At the time, the counterfeits were said to have been bought from a longtime colleague who asserted they were genuine. Michael Halpern, a lawyer who negotiated the plea for Mr. Fisher's side, said last month that Mr. Fisher was near death at the time, and that he thought Mr. Fisher's ill health contributed to the fraud.
        ''He was taking immense amounts of medicine,'' Mr. Halpern said. ''He is very, very vulnerable.'' The company pleaded no contest and agreed to pay more than $67,000 to identified claimants.
        Mr. Fisher was born in Gary, Ind., was trained as a hydraulic engineer at Purdue and at Alabama University, but turned to chicken-farming in California. Then he opened a diving shop in Redondo Beach. He began diving for treasure, then moved his family to Florida and became a serious treasure-hunter and salvager.
        He is said to have been heartened by his finding of a doubloon under water at the Florida coast in the 1960's, in an era when salvage was based on Britain's admiralty law, which held salvagers' work to be in the public interest.
        Besides his son Kane, of Sebastian, Fla., Mr. Fisher is survived by his wife of 48 years, Dolores, known as Deo; two other sons, Kim and Terry of Key West; a daughter, Taffi Fisher-Abt of Sebastian and 14 grandchildren.
      