
        Sir Alan Lloyd Hodgkin, an English biophysicist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine  in 1963 for helping to explain how nerve cells transmit impulses between the the skin to the brain, died Sunday at the age of 84.
        London newspaper reports, quoting his family, said he died after a long illness at home in Cambridge, where he was long associated with Trinity College as a Royal Society research professor.
        Dr. Hodgkin came from a family prominent in British medicine. He shared the prize in 1963 with Andrew Fielding Huxley, a fellow Briton, and John Carew Eccles, an Australian.
        Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Huxley, working together with the giant nerve fibers of squids, succeeded in devising a system of mathematical equations describing the nerve impulse. Based on their results, Dr. Eccles showed what happened when the nerve impulse arrived at the synapse, or contact point, of the next cell.
        Their work carried forward the discoveries of the Italian anatomist Luigi Galvani (1737-98), investigator of what he termed animal electricity. He demonstrated that a dead frog's muscles could be made to twitch by an electric current passing through its body.
        The three 1963 laureates explained that such currents are the means by which the nerves pass information and sensation to the brain. In turn, the currents transmit the brain's orders for action to every part of the body.
        A human being's every act, experience and sensation in life depends on the pulse of signals through the nerve cells, yet until this discovery, the fine details of how those signals are generated were unclear.
        Dr. Hodgkin was born in Danbury, near Oxford, and was educated at Cambridge, where he met Andrew Huxley. During World War II both men worked as Government researchers on radar development.
        Dr. Hodgkin then resumed his investigation of the ionic theory of how nerve cells send messages via an ''electric cable'' in the spinal cord. In an intricate series of experiments on the nerve fibers of squids and frogs he and his colleagues showed how the human brain responded to nerve messages.
        Dr. Hodgkin served as master of Trinity College from 1978 until 1985. He was knighted in 1972 and was appointed to the prestigious Order of Merit a year later. He was a past president of the Royal Society.
        One of his ancestors was Thomas Hodgkin (1798-1866), who diagnosed the disease named after him. In 1944, Alan Hodgkin married American-born Marion de Kay Rous, whose father, the late Frederick P. Rous, analyzed Rous's sarcoma and shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1966 for discovering that some forms of leukemia are caused by a virus.
        Besides his wife, Marion, Dr. Hodgkin's survivors include their son and three daughters.
        Dr. Hodgkin's book, ''Chance and Design: Reminiscences of Science in Peace and War'' remains in print in its American edition (Cambridge University Press, 1992).
      