
        Bob Haggart, a bassist and arranger who performed with an extraordinary variety of jazz groups during his nearly 70-year career, died yesterday in a hospital in Venice, Fla., after collapsing on his way to the post office. He was 84 and lived in Venice.
        Mr. Haggart's long and varied career demonstrated his own vitality as well as that of the music. Not only did he record with some of the greatest black jazz musicians, including Louis Armstrong, Ella Fitzgerald, Billie Holiday, Duke Ellington, Sarah Vaughan and Charlie Parker, but he was a mainstay in some of the great white bands as well.
        And by the end of his life he had not only participated in the bands and recordings of figures like Bob Crosby, Eddie Condon, Muggsy Spanier, Wingy Manone, Jess Stacy and Jack Teagarden, but had become an important part of the neo-traditionalist movement that he helped start by forming the World's Greatest Jazz Band in 1968 with the trumpeter Yank Lawson. Through the mid-1990's Mr. Haggart was still playing and recording with musicians like Kenny Davern, Bob Wilber, Jane Jarvis and others.
        Mr. Haggart's success came in part from his ability to perform in all sorts of different contexts, from small jazz groups to larger pop ensembles designed for singers. He worked with the string orchestra of Charlie Parker, and in the large ensembles that backed Sarah Vaughan. In the small groups his buoyant, swinging playing came to the forefront; at his several appearances at the 92d Street Y in the 1990's, Mr. Haggart's playing always enlivened the band, making the music swing harder than it otherwise might have.
        His first significant work in jazz was as a bassist with the Bob Crosby band, to which he added not just his bass work but arrangements that often proved to be classics, including ''What's New,'' ''South Rampart Street Parade'' and ''The Big Noise from Winnetka,'' a duet for bass and drums.
        That number, which he composed and recorded with the drummer Ray Bauduc in 1938, opens with drums, has stop-time sections, slapped bass and a rare musical virtuosity. Mr. Haggart whistles, Mr. Bauduc taps on the bass strings with his sticks, and the effect is casual brilliance.
        In 1942 he left the Crosby band to freelance in New York, working in recording studios and in radio and television. During the 1940's Mr. Haggart was one of New York's most sought-after musicians, recording and playing with such artists as Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald.
        His playing with Armstrong is recorded on the ''The Complete Town Hall Concert'' of 1947. For the next few decades Mr. Haggart drifted in and out of the studios. He worked occasionally with Bob Crosby reunion groups, and recorded with the saxophonist Bud Freeman in 1962.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Haggart, whose full name was Robert Sherwood Haggart, grew up in Douglaston, N.Y. He started playing guitar as a teen-ager and then switched to the double bass when he was 17. He is survived by a son, Bob Haggart Jr. of Sarasota, Fla., and a sister.
        In 1968 he formed the World's Greatest Jazz Band with Mr. Lawson, a group that in many ways provided inspiration for an entire movement of neo-traditionalists that came to fruition in the 1980's and 90's. In the 90's Mr. Haggart recorded regularly with the clarinetist Kenny Davern and the saxophonist Bob Wilber, along with the pianist Jane Jarvis and the saxophonist Rick Fay. In July 1996, he performed in Japan with the World's Greatest Jazz Band. He was also an accomplished painter in oils and watercolors and found a ready market for his work.
        Correction:  December 11, 1998, Friday  An obituary of the jazz bassist Bob Haggart on Friday cited his musical credits incompletely. He wrote the music for the song ''What's New,'' with words by Johnny Burke, and with the drummer Ray Bauduc wrote ''South Rampart Street Parade,'' with words by Steve Allen; he did not just write the arrangements.
      