
        Jo Floyd, the former chairman of Christie's International, died on Feb. 20 in a hospital in London. He was 74 and had cancer, a colleague said.
        Mr. Floyd's career at Christie's began in 1947, when he took a job at the front counter in the auction house's principal London salesroom, and ended in 1992, when he retired as a director of Christie's International, the holding company that owns Christie's along with other businesses. As chairman of Christie's International, he presided over a period of unprecedented change and growth.
        Mr. Floyd was the force behind Christie's plans to take advantage of the growing art market in America by opening its first salesroom in New York City. He also introduced the buyer's premium, the extra fee buyers pay to the auction house, as a way to increase profits. At times, he worked to prevent important art from leaving Britain. Most memorably, in 1960, he negotiated the sale of Rembrandt's ''Belshazzar's Feast,'' part of the estate of Lord Derby, to London's National Gallery.
        Born John Anthony Floyd in 1923, Mr. Floyd went by his nickname, Jo. After attending Eton College and serving in the Royal Rifle Corps during World War II, he joined Christie's, where a cousin was a partner.  He began at the front counter, a ground-floor command center where  employees traditionally started their training. He was soon promoted to the furniture department, and became a partner in the firm in 1954. Four years later, he was made chairman of the furniture department.
        A modest but extremely shrewd businessman who liked to pretend that he had little feeling for the fine arts, Mr. Floyd rose steadily at  Christie's. In 1973, he became its  deputy chairman, and the next year he was appointed chairman of Christie's auction house. He served as chairman of Christie's International  from 1976 to 1988, after which he served as a member of the board of directors until retiring.
        Mr. Floyd was credited with helping to pave the way for some of Christie's most prosperous years. His decision to open in New York proved wise when the turnover there began outstripping that in London by the end of the 1970's. During Mr. Floyd's tenure, the company, which went public in 1973, had record sales and greatly increased profits.
        Mr. Floyd is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Louise Rosselli, and two daughters, Liz and Caro.
      