
        The Rev. Lord Soper, a Methodist minister and Labor peer who was the most famous and longest-running soapbox orator at Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park, died on Tuesday in London. He was 95.
        A strikingly handsome silver-haired man dressed in a black cassock and white collar, he was always the one with the biggest crowds at the paved northern end of the park that on every Sunday since 1855 has been a gathering spot for robust debate, slashing give and take and display of British eccentricities.
        In the tradition of Speakers' Corner, he warmed to hecklers and bested them with humor, charming them by addressing them as ''fatheads'' and ''rascals.''
        To a man who asked if after all God wasn't dead, he replied, ''Funny, I hadn't heard that He was unwell.''  To a very short man who ridiculed his pacifism, saying, ''If I'm attacked, shouldn't I defend myself?'' he looked down and said, ''In your case, I would advise against it.''
        With stirring fluency of language, a prodigious vocabulary and a sonorous gravely voice, he inveighed passionately against disparate enemies including war, poverty, drinking, smoking, McCarthyism, gambling, apartheid, blood sports, abortion, euthanasia, exploitative employers, slave labor, capital punishment and profit. Decades before they became fashionable, he campaigned for the ordination of women, homosexual rights and vegetarian eating habits to spare animals.
        A lifelong Socialist, he said that Christianity and capitalism were incompatible. A republican, he chastised the Queen for going to the races because he said it encouraged betting, Prince Philip for playing polo on Sundays and the other members of the royal family for hunting deer and foxes.
        He objected to the growing mention of sex, saying, ''It doubles the crowd, but it halves the argument.''
        But he insisted on dwelling on sin. ''Talking about Christianity without saying anything about sin is like discussing gardening without saying anything about weeds,'' he explained.
        He was unshakable in his convictions, sticking to his absolute pacifism even during World War II when German planes were bombing the homes and work places of the people he was speaking to. Asked in later years what he would do if the Russians invaded Britain, he said, ''Welcome them with a cup of tea.''
        He had taken his crusade for radical causes outdoors for the first time in 1926, speaking to dockers and other workers at Tower Hill in East London, and he continued speaking there every Wednesday even after he began his Sunday afternoon sermons in Hyde Park in the early 1940's. No amount of London weather could cause him to cancel, and he regularly harangued crowds in lashing rain and blustery gales.
        He said his motto was ''Hit 'em as hard as you can as long as it's above the belt,'' and he told The Times of London in 1991 that he thrived on the twice weekly events because there were not many opportunities for personal confrontation anymore. ''They have all been swallowed up by public relations,'' he said.
        Donald Oliver Soper was born in London on Jan. 31, 1903, to deeply religious Methodist parents. He decided to become a minister when he was 13, encouraged by his father, an insurance salesman and temperance campaigner. His Methodist convictions deepened at Cambridge where he was an undergraduate and the London School of Economics, where he obtained a doctorate.
        He had developed his ability to attract attention in school, where he excelled as an athlete and an academic. In an incident, though, that he said scarred him for life, a cricket ball he had bowled bounced up errantly and struck an 18-year-old classmate in the chest, killing him instantly. The young man had a defective heart, it emerged.
        He began his inner city brand of ministry at the South London Mission in 1926 and 10 years later became head of the West London Mission, one of the city's great pulpits, where for the next 42 years he preached to throngs in the large Kingsway Hall.
        In his years there it became the biggest single social service entity of any church in Britain, devoting its attentions particularly to prisoners, homeless girls, unmarried mothers and juvenile offenders. After his retirement in 1978, he continued with his Sunday morning sermons at another Methodist church.
        Prime Minister Harold Wilson made him a life peer in 1965, and he took the title Baron Soper of Kingsway. He spoke out frequently on his favorite subjects in the House of Lords, campaigning for higher taxes on liquor and tobacco.
        In 1987 he founded an evangelical crusade for young people called the Order of Christian Witness, and in 1988 he became the chairman of the League Against Cruel Sports, which  campaigns against hunting.
        In recent years he had suffered from arthritis, and he increasingly used a wheelchair and had to be lifted in place to deliver his weekly outdoor sermons. His wife, Marie, died in 1994, and he is survived by four daughters, nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        On his 90th birthday, he explained why he never retired from his vigorous pastoral work.
        ''I am a Methodist preacher, and I suppose in some respects I'm peculiar in that I never wanted to do anything else,'' he said. ''I never had any doubts that I was going to offer myself to the church as a preacher, therefore you can say I'm an addict.  Or you can say I have a calling. But I'm committed. And that's not a credit to me. It's just a condition.''
        An accomplished pianist, he loved the playing of Jelly Roll Morton and collected jazz recordings. He could not, he said, ''contemplate heaven without the music of Bach and Fats Waller.''
        Correction:  December 31, 1998, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about the Rev. Lord Soper, the Methodist minister and soapbox orator at Speakers' Corner at Hyde Park in London, referred imprecisely to his position on euthanasia. He supported voluntary euthanasia and served for many years as vice president of the Voluntary Euthanasia Society of England; he did not condemn all forms of it.
      