
        Joseph Esherick, a self-effacing architect who won acclaim for his people-friendly designs and turned an old canning factory in San Francisco into a renowned shopping complex, died on Dec. 17 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 83 and lived in San Francisco.
        His firm, Esherick, Homsey, Dodge and Davis, said that he died of heart failure after several months in a hospital.
        ''The ideal kind of building is one you don't see,'' Mr. Esherick liked to say. Accordingly his buildings were designed to blend into their surroundings and serve their occupants, not shout his name.
        In 1989 Mr. Esherick was awarded the gold medal of the American Institute of Architects, making him one of only 47 recipients since 1907 and putting him in the company of Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, Mies van der Rohe and other giants. He was cited as an ''outstanding designer, an educator steeped in the arts, and a humanist with a deep concern for the betterment of the profession and our society.''
        Characteristically, he seemed taken aback by the honor. ''I was surprised that somebody whose achievements have been so modest and simple and sort of ordinary was getting recognized,'' he said at the time.
        Turning away a commission once to design a ''signature'' building at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., he said: ''I'm not interested in doing a signature building, but I would be interested in doing a good building to satisfy somebody's problem. My signature isn't part of the problem.''
        His personal style reinforced the message. Tall and laconic and sometimes likened by friends to Gary Cooper, he sported a cropped beard and favored khakis and stone-washed denim work shirts, often with a colored T-shirt peeping out underneath. In his younger years he raced BMW's.
        Like the man himself, Esherick buildings were quite simply ''nice,'' said Gerald Gurland, chairman of the Architectural Dialogue Committee of the American Institute of Architects, director of museum development of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and a former associate of the architect Richard Meier.
        ''His work was very restrained, nice, pleasant, personable,'' Mr. Gurland said. ''He was not a form-giver. He seemed to have a gift to make buildings pleasant. His houses were very natural and fit the California environment.''
        A faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley for more than 40 years, Mr. Esherick influenced generations of architecture students, teaching that buildings should be designed from the inside out, making form secondary to aspects like views and light. ''Beauty,'' he said, ''is a byproduct of solving problems correctly.''
        In addition to the Cannery near Fisherman's Wharf, completed in 1967, Mr. Esherick designed the Monterey Bay Aquarium, which opened in 1984 and incorporated elements of the old Cannery Row in Monterey, Calif. His other notable projects include Wurster Hall for the College of Environmental Design at the University of California at Berkeley, called the first large pre-cast concrete structure on the West Coast, and the demonstration homes at Sea Ranch,  which seem to disappear into the landscape of the Sonoma coast south of Mendocino.
        He also designed Stevenson College at the University of California at Santa Cruz and many buildings at Stanford University and at Mills College in Oakland. His last project was an innovative public elementary school and community center for parents, the Tenderloin Community School, now being built in San Francisco.
        Mr. Esherick had a fondness for craft and workmanship. When he designed a chapel for the Y.M.C.A. in Berkeley, he included a wooden cross he had carved.
        He was born in 1914 in Philadelphia and apprenticed with his uncle, Wharton Esherick, an artist and furniture-maker. He received a bachelor of architecture degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937 and moved to the Bay Area the following year. After serving in the Navy in World War II he opened his own firm in 1946. He joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley in 1952 and served as chairman of the architecture department from 1977 to 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, Norma; three daughters, Lisa, of Berkeley, and Julie and Maria, of San Francisco, and two sons, Joseph W., of San Diego, a China scholar and author, and Peter, of Albuquerque, N.M.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1989 after he won his A.I.A. medal, Mr. Esherick told of his various hobbies: fly-fishing, bone-carving and reading James Joyce and histories of the age of discovery. ''My problem is that I like everything,'' he said. ''I get fascinated with geology, or I get fascinated with anthropology.''
        And then, typically, he turned self-effacing. ''I get fascinated with anything I don't understand, and since I hardly understand anything, I have a very busy life.''
      