
        Jan Meyerowitz, a prolific composer whose varied catalogue includes eight operas and many chamber, symphonic and choral works, died in Colmar, France, on Dec. 15. He was 85.
        Mr. Meyerowitz's music, which is lyrical and dramatic, often combines a Neo-Classical sense of structure with touches of chromaticism that gives it a modern sensibility.
        He was drawn to subjects that raised moral or humanistic questions or that looked at the contemporary world through the prism of Bible stories. His second opera, ''The Barrier'' (1949), has a libretto by Langston Hughes, based on his play ''The Mulatto,'' and looks at racial issues in the South. Hughes also supplied a libretto for ''Esther'' (1956), about the biblical queen.
        The story of Esther, who saved her people from the genocidal plans of Haman, clearly fascinated Mr. Meyerowitz, who had spent World War II in hiding with the help of friends in the French and Italian Resistance.
        Besides the opera, he wrote a symphony, ''Midrash Esther,'' inspired by rabbinical commentary and entirely separate from the operatic score. Dimitri Mitropoulos led the New York Philharmonic in the premiere of the work in 1957.
        Mr. Meyerowitz was born in 1913 in Breslau, Germany (now Wroclaw, Poland), and studied until 1933 at the Hochschule fur Musik in Berlin. He continued his studies in Rome, where Respighi and Alfredo Casella were among his teachers.
        In the late 1930's he made his way to Belgium and France. When the war ended, several French musicians -- including the flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal and the pianist Yvonne Loriod -- performed his works in concerts and radio broadcasts. He married a French musician, Marguerite Fricker, who survives him.
        Mr. Meyerowitz moved to New York in 1946. He worked as an assistant to Boris Goldovsky at the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood, Mass., and later joined the faculty there and at Brooklyn College and City College. He also established himself quickly as a composer. ''The Barrier'' had its premiere on Broadway in January 1950, and was revived at several Italian opera houses in the 1970's and at the Darmstadt Staatsoper in Germany in 1996.
        Besides ''Esther,'' his other operas were ''Simoon'' (1949);''Eastward in Eden'' (1951), later renamed for its subject, Emily Dickinson); ''Bad Boys in School'' (1952); ''Port Town'' (1960), also with a libretto by Hughes; ''Godfather Death'' (1961), and ''Winterballade'' (1967).
        Among Mr. Meyerowitz's instrumental works were concertos for flute and oboe, sonatas for violin and cello, works for small string and brass ensembles, and several full orchestra works. He also wrote an ecumenical collection of liturgical works that included Jewish works, like the ''Hebrew Service'' (1962), and Christian ones, like the Easter cantata ''The Glory Around His Head'' (1955) and the ''Missa Rachel Plorans'' (1954).
      