
        Mike McAlary, whose bulletproof swagger and unyielding reporting about the New York Police Department made him the city's dominant tabloid reporter of the last decade, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 41 and, earlier this year, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for commentary for a series of columns in The Daily News on the brutalization of Abner Louima.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his brother, Kevin.
        Mr. McAlary had been a sports reporter in Boston and at The New York Post before he was hired by New York Newsday in 1985 to cover the Police Department. Playing on his Irish roots and whisk-broom mustache, he quickly developed a powerful rapport with patrol officers, detectives and department brass, spending night after night in the bars where they liked to drink, meeting them on weekends, and writing about their heroics and their weaknesses.
        When 13 officers of the 77th Precinct in Brooklyn were charged in 1986 with a variety of thefts and other felonies in a major corruption case, Mr. McAlary led the journalistic pack by getting several officers to talk to him. One officer, Brian O'Regan, killed himself a few hours after speaking with Mr. McAlary; a copy of Mr. McAlary's Newsday article was found in a hotel room next to the officer's body. The case became the basis of ''Buddy Boys,'' the first of Mr. McAlary's three nonfiction books about police life.
        ''Most cops look down on newspaper reporters, but they didn't look down on him,'' said John Timoney, the Police Commissioner in Philadelphia and formerly the First Deputy Commissioner in New York, who became Mr. McAlary's friend. ''I think it was the toughness. He was a tough guy, physically and mentally, and wasn't afraid to go into bad neighborhoods or call somebody a dog. And he looked like a cop himself.''
        His byline began to sell newspapers, and he became the subject of a bidding war between the city's tabloids, who prized a strong, preferably Irish, voice in the mold of Jimmy Breslin and Pete Hamill. Like other columnists, Mr. McAlary borrowed some of his syntax and style from Mr. Breslin, who had himself adopted it from Damon Runyon and others. But friends said a more influential model was his Newsday colleague, the late Murray Kempton.
        ''Jimmy was a big shadow to Mike, but Murray was more of a spiritual kin to him,'' said Jim Dwyer, another columnist at The Daily News who previously worked at New York Newsday. ''He didn't write like Murray, but he had the same ability to look someone in the eye and tell the truth about what they had done, understanding the difference between the sin and the sinner.''
        In 1993, Mr. McAlary suffered severe injuries in an automobile accident, but battled back even as The Daily News and The New York Post fought over which paper had him under contract.
        For the last two years, since learning he had cancer, Mr. McAlary had undergone surgery and chemotherapy and had cut back his columns in The Daily News from three a week to one. But during that same period, he seemed to focus an energy often described as manic, leaving a chemotherapy session in August 1997 to get the first interview with Mr. Louima, writing a first novel, ''Sore Loser,'' that was just published by Morrow, and spending more time with his large family.
        ''Cancer happens too much,'' he wrote in The Daily News a year ago, when his youngest son was born, ''but if you are going to live, you have to take a chance on dying. I changed the life I had for one I wanted -- fewer bars and newspaper columns, for more family and novel writing.''
        Mr. McAlary's bravado, often expressed with a barroom stridency, made him a host of enemies, and sometimes got him in trouble. In 1995, he wrote that a woman had fabricated an account of being raped in order to publicize a feminist rally. Women's groups were furious, and the woman sued him for libel. The case was dismissed two years later by a judge who ruled that Mr. McAlary had accurately reported a series of inaccurate statements from police officials. In court, he was forced to admit that several opinions expressed in his columns were unfounded.
        Mr. McAlary was born in Honolulu when his father was in the Navy, and moved with the family to Flatbush, Brooklyn at age 3. Seven years later, the family moved again to Goffstown, N.H., where he graduated from high school with several published articles to his credit in the national magazine Tennis Illustrated. He studied journalism at Syracuse University before covering sports for both Boston newspapers.
        He is survived by his parents, Jack and Ellen McAlary of Goffstown; his wife, Alice, and four children, Ryan, Carla, Michael and Quinn, ranging in age from 1 to 13, all of Bellport, on Long Island; four brothers and three sisters.
        After learning he had cancer, he had hoped to give up writing about the police. But after getting a tip about the Louima case, in which four officers were later charged with brutalizing the Haitian immigrant, he told friends he had one last police story to tell.
        ''After hearing a story that I wanted to be untrue, I was shaking,'' he wrote in the first of his Pulitzer Prize-winning columns. ''This is not about the police force. This is about a group of cops who are sadistic racists. Be afraid, be very afraid if this story is true, and I am afraid it is.''
      