
        Joseph F. Unanue, a senior executive in the Goya food business, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital and Medical Center in Seattle. He was 41 and lived in San Juan, P.R., and Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a bone-marrow transplant, according to a hospital spokeswoman.
        Mr. Unanue (pronounced u-NA-nu-way) had been executive vice president at Goya Foods Inc. in Secaucus, N.J., the nation's largest family-owned Hispanic foods business.
        As the second-in-command at the company's headquarters, he was among a handful of family and non-family executives who were regarded as candidates for the two top positions in which his father, Joseph A. Unanue, the president of Goya Foods, and his uncle, Francisco Unanue, president of Goya de Puerto Rico Inc., the company's main manufacturing center, share authority.
        Goya, which packages and sells about 800 food items -- from rice and beans to sauces and spices -- throughout the United States, Europe and Latin America, had revenue last year of $700 million, a more than threefold rise over the last decade. The company employs 2,000 people.
        Mr. Unanue is credited with leading the company's expansion into the Midwest and throughout the Southeast and Southwest and with broadening Goya's reach beyond ethnic markets to shoppers of all backgrounds. Until three years ago, Goya's only English-language advertising had been in New York. He pushed for English-language promotions in Boston, Washington, Philadelphia and other cities.
        Mr. Unanue had grown up in the business founded in New York in 1936 by his grandfather, Prudencio Unanue, a Spanish immigrant who parlayed an initial shipment of 500 cases of Moroccan sardines into an olive-oil packing plant that just kept growing.
        As a child of 10 or 12, Mr. Unanue helped unload trucks and pack olives. In the summers of his undergraduate years at Duke University, where he received a bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1979, he continued his apprenticeship.
        After receiving an M.B.A. at the University of North Carolina in 1981, he went to work at Goya's headquarters in Secaucus as director of marketing.
        In 1984, Mr. Unanue and a cousin took charge of a Goya cannery in the mountains of Puerto Rico. He also worked with his uncle at Goya de Puerto Rico in Bayamon. In 1989, he became general manager and vice president of Goya de Puerto Rico. Then in late 1996 he took the job as his father's No. 2 at the headquarters in New Jersey.
        In addition to his father and his mother, Carmen, who have homes in New Jersey and Puerto Rico, Mr. Unanue is survived by three daughters from his former marriage to Isabel Banuchi, Isabel, Sofia and Juliana, all of San Juan; four sisters, Mari Norris of Cresskill, N.J., Mary Ann Quinones and Mimi Guggenheim of Miami and Maribel McVicar of Norwood, N.J., and a brother, Andrew, of San Juan.
      