
        Syl Apps, the Hall of Fame center of the Toronto Maple Leafs when they dominated the National Hockey League in the 1940's and one of Canada's finest all-round athletes of his era, died Thursday at his home in Kingston, Ontario. He was 83.
        In his 10 years in the N.H.L., Apps had 201 goals and 231 assists and was renowned for his gentlemanly play.
        ''Apps is the cleanest player I've ever known,'' said his coach, Hap Day. ''He never bends an elbow except to twist his stick over an opponent's wrist. The strongest language he ever uses is 'by hum' and 'jiminy Christmas.' ''
        Conn Smythe, the Leafs' general manager, would introduce him at gatherings as ''Syl Apps, our captain, who does not smoke or drink.''
        Apps once flattened a Boston Bruin defenseman who had knocked out two of his teeth with his stick, but he proved that players did not have to fight in order to win. In the 1941-42 season, when he won the Lady Byng Trophy for sportsmanship and did not incur a single penalty, he was a first-team All-Star and a runner-up for the Hart Trophy as most valuable player. And he led the Maple Leafs to their first Stanley Cup championship in 10 seasons.
        Charles Joseph Sylvanus Apps, a native of Paris, Ontario, also excelled in football and track and field. He was captain of the football team at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, graduating in 1936, and was the British Empire pole-vault champion in 1934 and the sixth-place finisher in that event in the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin.
        Apps won the first Calder Trophy, as the N.H.L.'s top rookie, in the 1936-37 season. An agile skater although a 6-foot 210-pounder, he led the league in assists, with 29, in each of his first two seasons.
        After serving in the Canadian Army in World War II, Apps led the Maple Leafs to Stanley Cups in 1947 and 1948, then retired. He finished with a flourish, passing the 200-goal mark in his final regular-season game, against the Detroit Red Wings, when he scored three goals, a hat trick.
        Apps was a five-time All-Star with 432 career points but only 56 penalty minutes, and he was perhaps fortunate that in his later years he played on a line with Wild Bill Ezinicki, a legendary tough guy. Apps was given a misconduct penalty, in a game against Montreal in February 1947, for leaving the bench to enter a fight. But that penalty was expunged by the N.H.L. president, Clarence Campbell, who ruled that ''Apps did not leave the bench until after the play was stopped and took no part in the altercation.''
        In an era when Maple Leaf Gardens was a citadel of hockey, Apps served as the captain on Toronto teams that also had stars like centers Ted Kennedy and Max Bentley and goalie Turk Broda. Apps was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1961.
        He ran unsuccessfully for the Canadian Parliament in the spring of 1940 when he sandwiched campaign speeches between hockey games. After retiring as a player, he served as Ontario's athletic commissioner, was a Conservative member of the Ontario Legislature from 1963 to 1974 and was Minister of Correctional Services in the Ontario cabinet.
        His survivors include his wife, Mary; two sons, Syl Jr., who played in the N.H.L., with the Rangers, Penguins and Kings, and Robert Apps; and three daughters, Joanne, Carol and Janet. A grandson, Syl Apps 3d, is a center for the Princeton University hockey team. Another grandson, Darren Barber, won a gold medal with the Canadian eight-oars rowing squad at the 1992 Olympics.
      