
        Dr. Raemer E. Schreiber, an experimental physicist who helped develop the atom bomb and the hydrogen bomb, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88.
        Dr. Schreiber, who was born in Oregon, received his doctorate from Purdue University in 1941, not long after the discovery of nuclear fission made it evident to scientists that some radioactive substances might be employed to build the most powerful bomb in history.
        He worked during World War II on the Manhattan Project, the secret program to design and make the world's first atomic bombs. In 1943, Dr. Schreiber, his wife and his 16-month-old baby went to Los Alamos, where a center for nuclear research had been set up to create the atom bomb. Secrecy was so heavy there that his driver's license listed a number, not a name.
        In an interview in 1975, Dr. Schreiber emphasized that he and other American atom-bomb scientists had had few misgivings during World War II about the destruction that their research would lead to.
        ''It was a survival war,'' he said. ''If there was anything to be done, we wanted to do it.''
        By the summer of 1945, he was part of a group of Los Alamos scientists that has been called one of the greatest collections of scientific brainpower ever assembled in one place.
        In July 1945, he and his co-workers completed the final assembly of the world's first atomic bomb, ''The Gadget.'' It was set off on July 16, 1945, atop a tower roughly 120 miles south of Albuquerque.
        That explosion, at 5:29 A.M., raised the curtain on the nuclear era. It also created an enormous flash of light that made the desert brighter than at noon.
        ''You could almost see through your eyelids, it was so bright,'' Dr. Schreiber recalled to an interviewer in 1980 during a 35th anniversary reunion at Los Alamos of 600 people who had helped construct the bomb. They met on the beautiful mesa where they had built it.
        Later he became part of the scientific team that was sent to Tinian in the western Pacific to put together the two nuclear bombs that were dropped on Japan. That island, which American forces had conquered in 1944, became the takeoff site for the aircraft that dropped the bomb called Little Boy on Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945, and the bomb called Fat Man on Nagasaki on Aug. 9, 1945.
        ''He really was the key person involved for the assembly of the Nagasaki bomb,'' Jim Danneskiold, a Los Alamos National Laboratory spokesman, said.
        Afterward, Dr. Schreiber said that his work on Tinian had helped save the lives of American troops by making an invasion of Japan unnecessary.
        After World War II, he decided to continue working at Los Alamos because, he said in the 1975 interview, of the ''heady atmosphere'' there, and because he could not see himself tied to the routine of college teaching.
        In the book ''Dark Sun: The Making of the Hydrogen Bomb'' by Richard Rhodes, (Simon & Schuster, 1995) Dr. Schreiber is quoted with his recollections of the period after the atomic bombs were dropped:
        ''That was the time one realized that it would be impossible to simply say, those are fine gadgets, they ended the war and now let's just lock everything up and forget about it. Really one had to live with this situation from here on.''
        In the war's aftermath, he was named a group leader in the weapons division of what is now Los Alamos National Laboratory. In 1946, he was observing some sensitive assembly work by a colleague, Louis Slotin, when they and others were accidentally exposed to radiation. Mr. Slotin died, but Dr. Schreiber and several others survived.
        In 1951, Dr. Schreiber was named the leader of the laboratory's weapons division, which went on to do important work on the development of the first hydrogen bomb.
        A timetable was set for those who were, as Mr. Rhodes put it in his book, ''to design and deliver a first experimental H-bomb'' for a test in November 1952. And, he wrote, ''it was clear from the beginning that the test device would be large.''
        The device became known as Mike, and the forthcoming test, on Eniwetok, an uninhabited atoll in the central Pacific, was sometimes called the ''Mike shot.''
        The more exotic materials that Mike was to be made of, Mr. Rhodes wrote, included ''waxy polyethylene, purple-black uranium, gold leaf, a breath of tritium, silvery deuterium,'' but ''Mike was never put together in its entirety in the United States.'' Its steel casing and its other components were sent to Eniwetok by ship.
        On the atoll, during the ticklish final step in the process of assembling Mike, Mr. Rhodes wrote, ''Schreiber was in charge of the pit crew. 'They knew what they were doing,' he says lightly; 'I provided moral support.' '' In its final form, Mike was 6 feet 8 inches by 20 feet and weighed 82 tons.
        The time of the Mike shot was set for 7:15 A.M. Nov. 1, local time. A minute earlier, Mr. Rhodes wrote, loudspeakers warned military and civilian personnel on a task force of ships in the area to don high-density goggles or to turn their backs on the upcoming blast and to cover their eyes.
        A radio signal from one of the ships, the Estes, traveled 30 miles and triggered Mike, letting go a fireball that was more than 3 miles wide and became an immense mushroom cloud: The width of its stem grew to a maximum of 8 miles, its top, to 27 miles.
        ''It really filled up the sky,'' Dr. Schreiber recalled to Mr. Rhodes. ''It was awesome. It just went on and on.''
        As Mr. Rhodes noted, Mike's blast, the first megaton-yield thermonuclear explosion on earth, ''would have obliterated all New York City's five boroughs.'' The blast was nearly 1,000 times more powerful than the one at Hiroshima,
        In 1955, Dr. Schreiber became the leader of the laboratory's nuclear rocket development division. In 1959, he reached a milestone in a nuclear-powered rocket propulsion project, code-named Rover, with the first test of an experimental engine using the tremendous energy potential uranium 235, the original basis of atomic bombs. The test, which was successful, was carried out at the Atomic Energy Commission's bomb-testing reservation 100 miles north of Las Vegas, Nev.
        Dr. Schreiber went on to become deputy director of the laboratory from 1972 until he retired from that post in 1974.
        He was born in McMinnville, Ore., and received a bachelor's degree in 1931 from Linfield College in Oregon and a master's degree in 1932 from the University of Oregon. He taught at Purdue University from 1937 to 1942.
        He is survived by his wife of 65 years, the former Marguerite Elizabeth Doak; two daughters, Paula Dransfield of Santa Fe, N.M., and Sara Schreiber of Corvallis, Ore.; and a sister, Anna Bergstrom of McMinnville.
      