
        Leonardo Nole, a longtime postal worker who achieved a measure of immortality simply by standing nude on one foot and pretending to fly, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Sacramento, Calif. He was 91 and the model for the famous titan-sized statue of Prometheus at the Rockefeller Center skating rink.
        A native of New Rochelle, N.Y., whose parents were Italian immigrants, Mr. Nole -- whose father worked at a tannery -- was born into a family of athletes. But while he, too, was an accomplished athlete who hiked the New Jersey Palisades, skated, lifted weights and won medals with the New Rochelle Rowing Club, it was not his athletic prowess but his physique that led him to be cast in bronze as the mythical Titan who stole fire from the Gods.
        As he recalled it years later, Mr. Nole was working as a lifeguard when he was asked to pose for a photograph. One thing led to another, and he was soon a model, posing for art classes at a number of women's colleges, including Sarah Lawrence in Bronxville. It was a measure of his standing that at a time when other models were paid 25 cents an hour, Mr. Nole commanded 75 cents.
        According to a written account Mr. Nole prepared years later, it was a Sarah Lawrence sculpture teacher who recommended him to Paul Manship, the celebrated sculptor who had received the commission for Rockefeller Center's Prometheus statue.
        When he arrived at Mr. Manship's East 72d Street studio in the spring of 1933, Mr. Nole recalled, a small model made by Mr. Manship had already been used to construct a rough 18-foot plaster enlargement that would be the base of the final detailed work.
        For all his experience as a model, Mr. Nole was surprised that once he had stripped, assumed the pose and been accepted by Mr. Manship, he saw almost nothing of the sculptor.
        Most of the detail work was done by an assistant, Angelo Colombo, and another assistant, Henry Krist, sculptured the hair.
        Mr. Nole, who was paid $1 an hour for what turned out to be a satisfying three-month assignment, was also surprised to find that although standing on one foot with his other leg stretched back, his arms outstretched and his body held almost horizontal could be demanding, the work was actually easier than posing for college art classes.
        That was because while the college routine allowed only five minutes of rest each half-hour, for Prometheus Mr. Nole spent much of his time sitting down while Mr. Colombo stood on a scaffold applying plaster according to sketches he had made of his model.
        After the Prometheus assignment, Mr. Nole resumed his college work, became active in amateur theatrics in New Rochelle and held a series of jobs until he became one of the first men drafted into the Army for World War II. He eventually saw action in Europe and was wounded, but before he was sent overseas, Mr. Nole had another rendevous with immortality and another surprise.
        As a former professional model, he was detached from beach patrol work on Long Island in 1942 and sent on a special mission to Connecticut to pose for a figure of an infantryman that was being prepared for the lobby of the Pentagon by, as it turned out, Henry Krist, the sculptor who had worked on Prometheus's hair.
        After the war, Mr. Nole went to work for the Post Office in New Rochelle, remaining there until 1955, when, after visiting a brother in California, he transferred to the Sacramento Post Office, where he continued to work until retirement age.
        During annual trips back to New York, he made it a point to stop at  Rockefeller Center to admire the Prometheus statue and his own youthful physique.
        Mr. Nole, whose wife, Ava, died many years ago, is survived by a brother, Frank, of Auburn, Calif.
        Correction:  March 19, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 27 about Leonardo Nole, who posed for the statue of Prometheus at Rockefeller Center, misspelled the surname of one of the assistants who worked with the sculptor, Paul Manship. He was Henry G. Kreis, not Krist.
      