
        Dr. Robert E. Gould, a psychoanalyst who specialized in treating social outcasts, died on Wednesday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was brain and lung cancer, said his wife, the novelist Lois Gould.
        Dr. Gould was a clinical professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College and president of the National Coalition on Television Violence, a lobbying group. Since the 1960's, he was a frequent commentator on how society treated its outsiders. He regularly criticized the methods of social scientists and medical practitioners and often appeared before reporters' microphones and television cameras, as well as on op-ed pages.
        In 1972, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York named Dr. Gould to a commission, headed by Arthur L. Liman, that was investigating the uprising at Attica state prison in which 43 people, mostly inmates, died. Dr. Gould helped write the panel's report, which criticized the guards' responses and their lack of training.
        His son Roger recalled that over the years his father had treated former convicts from Attica in his private practice. The son remembered having seen them arrive for therapy at the office in the family home and waiting in the living room along with transsexuals, drug abusers, hippies and others.
        Hippies, Dr. Gould maintained, deserved to be taken more seriously. ''To be different is not to be sick.'' he said. In 1967 he invited six hippies to lecture to psychiatrists at the New York University School of Medicine.
        When gay men and women pressed for civil liberties in the early 70's, Dr. Gould was an early advocate of removing homosexuality from the list of pathologies in the American Psychiatric Association treatment manual, which the group did in 1973.
        In 1987, he worked for the release of a woman who was the first person hospitalized under an effort by New York City to use force to remove from the streets mentally ill homeless people who were believed to be endangering themselves. The woman, named Joyce Brown but also known as Billie Boggs, had lived for nearly a year in front of a restaurant on Second Avenue near 65th Street, where she had cursed customers and defecated in public.
        Dr. Gould was one of two psychiatrists brought in by the American Civil Liberties Union to testify that she was in excellent health, was not psychotic or seriously ill and was living on the street by choice. ''Since she is not psychotic,'' Dr. Gould said, ''there is every reason for her not to want treatment.'' His argument prevailed against city psychiatrists and Ms. Brown's sisters.
        Robert Emory Gould was born on March 20, 1924, in Manhattan. When he was an infant, his parents divorced and his destitute mother sent him to live with grandparents, immigrants from Hungary who spoke no English. From their cold-water flat in a poor section of the Bronx, he took a subway to Public School 6, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He used an aunt's address to enroll and attend classes with children from more affluent families while hiding his own circumstances. It was an experience that Roger Gould said helped explain his father's concern with people on the margins of society.
        Dr. Gould attended Williams College and graduated from the University of Maryland, in 1945, and the University of Virginia Medical School, in 1949. He was trained in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Psychiatric Institute in Manhattan.
        Dr. Gould joined Bellevue Psychiatric Hospital in 1954, where he directed adolescent services until 1977. He then became a professor of psychiatry and director of outpatient psychiatry at the New York Medical College. He also was associate director of the family life division at Metropolitan Hospital.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. Also surviving is another son, Anthony, of Portland, Ore.
        Among psychoanalysts, Dr. Gould had his niche, said Dr. Robert Jay Lifton, professor of psychiatry at John Jay College in Manhattan. ''There were others who sought social change in general, but none with Bob Gould's bold nitty-gritty focus on issues and the people involved in them,'' Dr. Lifton said. ''Bob was in the trenches to change the status quo.''
        Correction:  February 28, 1998, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Dr. Robert E. Gould, a psychoanalyst and expert in treating social outcasts, misidentified the chairman of the New York State commission that investigated the 1971 Attica prison uprising. The commission, on which Dr. Gould served, was headed by Robert B. McKay, the former New York University Law School dean; Arthur L. Liman was its chief counsel.
      