
        Renzo Mongiardino, a stage and screen set designer who also was called the world's greatest living interior decorator, died on Jan. 16 in Milan, Italy, where he lived. He was 81.
        The cause was a variety of ailments, including pneumonia, that stemmed from an operation in November to install a pacemaker, said his son-in-law, Gianfranco Simone.
        A scholarly bohemian whose noble profile and fastidiously combed fan-like beard gave him an uncanny resemblance to Giuseppe Verdi in his mature years and Vincent Price as an old man, Mr. Mongiardino habitually dismissed his renown as the eminence gris of interior design. ''I'm a creator of ambiance, a scenic designer, an architect but not a decorator,'' he once said, his contention supported by a distinguished theater and movie career that included the 1964 Covent Garden production of ''Tosca,'' starring Maria Callas, and notable movie collaborations with the director Franco Zeffirelli, including ''The Taming of the Shrew'' (1966), ''Romeo and Juliet'' (1967) and ''Brother Sun, Sister Moon'' (1971).
        For all his fine splitting of occupational hairs, however, Mr. Mongiardino was indelibly linked with decoration and the creation of intensely romantic interiors. Most recently, he had completed designs for the restoration of La Fenice, the fabled Venice opera house that was gutted by fire in 1996 and is being restored by the architect Gae Aulenti. And on his deathbed, family members said, Mr. Mongiardino continued to tinker with the model for his final project, an iron-and-glass jewelry shop in Milan inspired by the work of the Neo-Classical architect Andrea Palladio. His design studio will remain open through the end of the year to complete jobs in progress.
        The only son of Laura Queiorolo, a gentle Genoese beauty, and Giuseppe Mongiardino, a theater impresario who introduced color television to Italy, Mr. Mongiardino traced his fascination with houses to a single childhood memory: his mother gazing with mingled reverence and dismay at the vast entrance hall of their new house, an 18th-century palazzo. ''It's so beautiful empty,'' she said to her 12-year-old son, taking in the shadowy room and its mesmerizing chandelier. ''It will be difficult to furnish.''
        As he wrote in his memoir ''Roomscapes'' (Rizzoli, 1993): ''My love for architecture probably was born in that room, and without realizing it, I understood that everything in our lives takes place within a space that surrounds us, therefore within architecture. Even when we are in the woods, the woods are our architecture; the light that passes among the trees is the same light that illuminates the chandelier of my childhood.''
        The romantically inclined Mr. Mongiardino's practical parents, however, preferred that he take his eyes off the chandelier and study law. One riotous freshman year and several failed exams later, he slunk home in disgrace, begging his parents for a second chance. Permission was given, and serious study -- in architecture, this time -- and stellar grades followed. His first design job was a house for his sister, and in the early 1950's, well into a promising theatrical career, he accepted a friend's offer to decorate an apartment and an avocation was born, one whose success would eventually eclipse his stage endeavors.
        Cozy spectacle was the designer's preference, history his inspiration and illusory effects his hallmark. The American designer Mark Hampton has described Mr. Mongiardino as an alchemist, a transformer of common materials into noble ones, a brilliant manipulator of emotion through design. ''If you feel, upon entering one of his fantastic rooms, like a spectator accidentally pushed onto a stage set prepared for a moment of Puccini or Verdi,'' Mr. Hampton wrote in his book ''Legendary Decorators,'' ''you wouldn't be totally off course.''
        Employing an impresario personality inherited from his father, Mr. Mongiardino and a loyal stable of painters, carpenters, gilders and model makers brought tricks of the stage trade to their work for clients like the Fiat chairman Gianni Agnelli and the fashion designer Gianni Versace, for whom Mongiardino and his associate Fiorenzo Cattaneo decorated a palace in Milan. The effect was all important, not the contents or the provenance. ''He did not care about $2 million commodes that once belonged to Madame Adelaide,'' Mr. Hampton said. ''His rooms were all about creating a mood, by whatever creative means necessary.''
        He is survived by a daughter, Eva Mongiardino Simone, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Though his interiors certainly contained their share of rare damasks and costly antiques, ingenious fakery was a paramount element of Mr. Mongiardino's decors. Intricate mosaics were often nothing more than paint, the walls of an apparently all-marble parlor were actually layered with marble-pattern paper, and on one occasion new velvet was made to look centuries old by an artisan who gave it an instant patina with felt-tip pens.
        Such mood-setting trompe l'oeil and dazzling inventions entranced rich clients who liked their grandeur more reasonably priced than that offered by Mr. Mongiardino's only real competitor in the arena of extravagant historical decors, the French designer Stephane Boudin. Younger designers were inspired, too, but the cunning deceptions could prove frustrating to the uninitiated. Later owners of Daylesford, an English estate that Mr. Mongiardino decorated for the art collector Baron Hans Heinrich von Thyssen-Bornemisza, were reportedly startled to discover that the hand-tooled and gilded Cordoba leather lining one room was just pressed cardboard, skillfully painted.
      