
        John Peter McGoff, a conservative Republican fund-raiser, entrepreneur and onetime owner of a string of small radio stations and newspapers, died on Jan. 21 at his home in Charlevoix, Mich. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, according to The Macomb Daily of Mount Clemens, Mich., which he formerly owned.
        Mr. McGoff came from humble beginnings as a steelworker's son in Pittsburgh. He built a fortune and, as a strong Republican Party supporter, became an invited guest to the White House under Presidents Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Mr. Bush counted him among his Team 100 of the most generous donors.
        A graduate of Michigan State University, Mr. McGoff started his business empire in East Lansing with a single radio station, which he bought with borrowed money in 1958. He eventually came to own or have a stake in seven other radio stations, a television outlet and about 70 newspapers in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Texas.
        Having also owned assets in South Africa, he ran into trouble in the mid-1980's when the United States Justice Department charged him with accepting millions of dollars from the South African Government. It accused him of using the money to try  to buy The Washington Star, which is now defunct, and turn it into a propaganda organ for South Africa, and to buy an interest in The Sacramento Union in California, which he later sold.
        The criminal charge alleged that he took the money without registering as a foreign agent. The Federal courts dismissed the case because the Government brought it after the statute of limitations had expired.
        By then Mr. McGoff had started selling off parts of his media holdings to other chains and finally liquidated his Panax newspaper group of daily and weekly papers. In 1995 he filed for personal bankruptcy, saying he was unable to pay several million dollars in debts.
        Mr. McGoff's survivors include his wife, Margaret; and their five children, Susan, Tom, David, Steve and Andy.
      