
        Roger L. Stevens, the real estate magnate, legendary Broadway producer and bravura fund-raiser who enriched Washington's cultural life by finding ways to create the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and by leading it for its first 17 years, died on Monday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 87 and lived in Washington.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said John Gleiber, a longtime friend of Mr. Stevens and his wife, Christine. In 1993, Mr. Stevens suffered strokes that left him partly paralyzed and deprived him of much of his speech.
        Mr. Stevens succeeded spectacularly at his three careers by combining the unflappable air of an ambassador with the heart of a gambler willing to take bold risks.
        On Broadway he was known as a producer of many hits, among them ''West Side Story,'' ''Mary, Mary,'' ''Death Trap,'' ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' ''A Man for All Seasons'' and ''Bus Stop,'' and for introducing plays by such adventurous writers as Harold Pinter, Arthur Kopit and Tom Stoppard.
        He came to the theater from the real estate world, where he was remembered as the man who led a syndicate that bought the Empire State Building in 1951 for a bit more than $50 million, then a titanic sum;  he more than doubled his investment when he sold his interest in the building three years later.
        In politics, he made a mark as chairman of the Democratic Party's finance committee in 1956, when Adlai E. Stevenson ran for President for the second time. In the area where the arts and politics intersect, he became a major figure. He was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant on the arts and the first chairman of the 25-member National Council on the Arts, founded in 1964. He also got through Congress the legislation that set up the National Endowment for the Arts and was its first chairman.
        In September 1961, in a theatrical season when Mr. Stevens was putting on more shows than any other New York producer, President John F. Kennedy made him chairman of the projected national cultural center for the performing arts in Washington and told him to make it a reality.
        Steps toward founding the center had been taken while Dwight D. Eisenhower was President, but they were inconclusive, largely for lack of agreement about its goals, budget, site, design and other issues.
        When Mr. Stevens took on the project, he had to start raising money from scratch. During the first months of that effort, ''I went to President Kennedy and said, 'I'm doing a bad job, and maybe you can get somebody else,' '' Mr. Stevens recalled. ''The President said: 'No, Roger. You've got the toughest money-raising job in the United States, and I want you to keep on doing it.''
        After Mr. Kennedy's death, the center was declared a memorial to him and was given his name, which broadened the project's role and its appeal.
        Eventually Mr. Stevens managed to raise much of the $30.6 million in private financing toward the $77.9 million cost of building the center.
        By one means or another, he insured that the center, a terraced cultural showplace, rose beside the Potomac. ''It was a risk to come in and build this center and a risk to open it,'' he said in an interview. ''There have been nothing but risks in my life.'
        Asked in the early 1980's how he had borne the political and financial worries of the days before the center opened, he replied, ''I couldn't; I had my first heart attack in 1970.''
        The center's boxy architecture was a losing bet in the eyes of the New York Times architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable. She wrote in 1971 that the design was ''a national tragedy'': ''a cross between a concrete candy box and a marble sarcophagus in which the art of architecture is buried.''
        But the center's opening night that year got a different reception. Leonard Bernstein conducted the premiere performance of his ''Mass'' in the center's Opera House, and Mr. Stevens would say later that it was the most exciting evening he had ever spent in the theater. ''When it was finished,'' he recalled, ''there was silence for three minutes. Then everyone stood and applauded for half an hour.''
        The center went on to become one of the most successful cultural institutions in the country, vastly increasing Washington's offerings in the performing arts. Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island, said, ''It's changed Washington from a cultural outpost into a cultural center -- what a capital city should be.''
        After the 1971 opening, Mr. Stevens oversaw the center's operations over two decades as top-ranking artists from all over the world appeared in its various performance spaces. He served as chairman, president and chief executive officer until 1988, when he stepped down.
        Mr. Stevens worked for the center as a dollar-a-year man, accepting no salary. That arrangement gave him independence, he said. As chairman, he also made contributions to the center from his own pocket.
        During the Nixon Administration, some criticism of Mr. Stevens's wheeling and dealing as the center's chairman was heard at the White House. After Mr. Stevens learned of that, he said to a friend, ''How the hell do they think it got built?''
        Roger Lacey Stevens was so successful in so many ways for so long that few people knew he went through hard times during the Depression. He was born in Detroit on March 12, 1910, and raised in Ann Arbor, Mich. He attended the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn., and was ready to enter Harvard, when the financial troubles of his father, who was in real estate, forced him to return to Ann Arbor. Years afterward, he talked bitterly about having missed out on a Harvard education.
        Mr. Stevens entered the University of Michigan but dropped out after a year. In 1930 he went to Detroit and labored on a Ford assembly line, until he was laid off.
        ''That's when I became a Democrat and a supporter of unions,'' he said later. He also worked nights at a gas station. And, as he put it once, ''I had a lot of time to read and somehow found myself reading mostly plays.'' His reading included Shakespeare, George Bernard Shaw and Luigi Pirandello.
        In 1934, Mr. Stevens joined a big Detroit real estate firm. By 1937, before he was 30, his real estate work had made him a small fortune of about $50,000.
        In the following decades, he amassed wealth, influence and distinction, and there was little about him that recalled his stint on the  assembly line. In wielding his power he was generally, but not always, soft-spoken and gentlemanly. He had an aloof air, and he liked to seal agreements with a handshake, not a crass contract.
        His friend and longtime partner, the Broadway producer Robert Whitehead, said in an interview last year that Mr. Stevens was ''a little bit the old American gambler.''
        ''The only thing is, his gambling was somehow conditioned by his sense of taste and his feeling for a civilized world,'' Mr. Whitehead said. Where Mr. Stevens liked to take chances and play hunches was in real estate and the performing arts.
        Mr. Stevens was a leading sponsor of the 1949 Ann Arbor Drama Festival, which staged a production of Shakespeare's comedy ''Twelfth Night.'' The production opened in New York that year with Mr. Stevens as its producer. With ''Twelfth Night,'' Roger Stevens's Broadway producing career was begun.
        Then his life in the theater received another boost, he told The Washington Times in 1988, when ''this fellow had Jean Arthur and Boris Karloff tied up for a production of 'Peter Pan,' and he couldn't raise the money.'' Mr. Stevens wound up as co-producer of the play, with Peter Lawrence. He signed up Bernstein, only a decade out of Harvard College, to write the music. The play opened in 1950, was a hit, and ran for 321 performances.
        Mr. Stevens was involved in the production of four plays in 1951 (the year of the Empire State Building purchase). Before long he, his wife and his daughter were living in an eight-room New York apartment. They also kept a home in Ann Arbor.
        Mr. Stevens had married the former Christine Gesell, a niece of Dr. Arnold Gesell, the child psychologist, in 1938. She survives him along with a daughter, Christabel Gough of Manhattan.
        In time he became one of Broadway's towering figures, a producing partner in more than 200 theatrical productions. He was one of a handful of producers who were admired for their ability to combine two gifts: good taste and business acumen.
        His work as a producer came to personify Broadway's wide range of offerings in the 1950's and 60's when it was a lively setting for serious plays as well as comedies and star vehicles. He liked to produce plays in partnership: the team of Roger Stevens and Robert Whitehead, for example, staged William Inge's ''Bus Stop,'' Robert Bolt's ''A Man for All Seasons'' and more than two dozen other Broadway productions.
        Over the years Mr. Stevens produced plays by such writers as Eugene O'Neill, Tennessee Williams, T. S. Eliot and Jean Giraudoux. But he also liked to take chances on relatively little-known playwrights and was proud that he had a hand in their early hits. Those successes included Arthur Laurents's ''Clearing in the Woods'' (1957), Jean Kerr's ''Mary, Mary'' (1961) and Arthur Kopit's ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad'' (1963).
        Mr. Stevens became a very early champion of Harold Pinter in the United States -- he was co-producer of ''The Caretaker'' on Broadway in 1961 -- and then saw his judgment vindicated when Mr. Pinter became an international success. He also brought Mr. Pinter's ''Betrayal'' to Broadway in 1979.
        ''Roger, unlike a lot of us, seemed to be fearless about money,'' Mr. Whitehead said. He said Mr. Stevens viewed money ''like a river that goes by and you bathe in it.''
        Mr. Whitehead also likes to tell how, years ago, the former Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas asked him to help produce a ''thank-you evening'' for Mr. Stevens at the Kennedy Center: ''I said to Abe Fortas, 'If we're going to put it together, let's make it personal and lively and short.' And he said, 'If you want something that's absolutely personal, then we should bring on a wagon filled with thousand-dollar bills and set it on fire.' ''
        Friends admired Mr. Stevens for rarely brooding over painful experiences. Mr. Whitehead recalled his way of coping with the stress of first nights and their aftermath: ''The main thing about his behavior -- apart from possibly drinking sensibly to withstand the onslaught of an opening night -- was that when the next morning came, if the reviews were bad, he didn't waste time discussing why it didn't work. He was interested in moving ahead.''
        Mr. Stevens wore many other hats over the decades. He was the treasurer of the Animal Welfare Institute in Washington; his wife was its president. He was on the boards of the Playwrights Producing Company, the Phoenix Theater and other major theatrical and performing arts groups.
        Honors came his way. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan gave him the National Medal of Arts and the Presidential Medal of Freedom for ''his lifetime of dedication to improving the performing arts in our country.''
        The Medal of Freedom was celebrated at a black-tie dinner where Mr. Reagan told the other guests that Mr. Stevens had earlier given this ''humble assessment'' of an aspect of his own career: ''A quarter of the time I have big hits, a quarter of the time artistic successes, a quarter of the time the critics were crazy, and a quarter of the time I was crazy.''
        Mr. Reagan said, ''Roger Stevens may be humble, but his achievements have enriched our nation's culture beyond measure.''
      