
        Franklin M. Kreml, a former police officer who became an internationally known authority on traffic, including policing and safety, and on transportation in general, died on Jan. 28 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Chicago.
        A formative moment in Mr. Kreml's life came in the late 1920's, when he was working as a police officer in Evanston to pay his bills while he was studying at Northwestern University's undergraduate campus there.
        He was called to investigate a traffic accident that left a woman gravely injured, his son, William, recalled.
        ''There were no ambulances or anything and he picked up the woman in his arms and carried her to his police car,'' the younger Mr. Kreml said. ''But she died in his arms and that had a tremendous impact on him.''
        A longtime Northwestern colleague of Mr. Kreml, Jeremy R. Wilson, who is an associate provost of the university, said that much of Mr. Kreml's early police work was spent as a motorcycle officer, and his whole career developed '' as a result of his experiences.''
        ''First, with the recognition that vehicular accidents were a very serious problem,'' Mr. Wilson said, ''and the conviction that something could be done about it, and that it was the role of a university to take those problems seriously, both for the analysis of what causes accidents and secondly, what kind of improvements in law enforcement could contribute to a reduction in those accidents. And that resulted in the formation of the Traffic Institute at Northwestern.''
        Founded by Mr. Kreml, who was its director from 1936 to 1955, it is widely considered the country's foremost traffic safety and law-enforcement institute. During Mr. Kreml's tenure, the institute's program expanded beyond traffic safety to encompass instruction in police management and operations and involvement with criminal justice issues.
        The institute's current director, Noel Bufe, said, ''He was one of the very early pioneers in coming to grips with how to more effectively to cope with traffic safety problems.''
        Mr. Kreml went on to direct the Transportation Center at Northwestern from 1955 to 1962, and was the university's vice president for planning and development from 1962 to 1971. He was the director of the traffic division of the International Association of Chiefs of Police from 1936 to 1956, and President Richard M. Nixon named him chairman of the President's Task Force on Highway Safety in 1970.
        Mr. Kreml was born in Chicago, the son of Frank Joseph Kreml and the former Sophia Valeria Dvorak. After attending Northwestern from 1925 to 1929, he received a law degree in 1932 from John Marshall Law School in Chicago.
        He stayed with the Evanston Police Department from the 1920's to 1935, and founded and headed its accident prevention bureau. While he held that post, traffic fatalities fell to 2 a year from 16 a year. The National Safety Council named Evanston as the country's ''safest city'' from 1933 through 1935.
        Mr. Kreml advocated that police officers concentrate their attention on locations where accidents were most frequent, and he was an intense analyst of the reasons behind automobile fatalities.
        He was in the Army in World War II, rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel and served in North Africa, Europe and in the War Department. His work involved transportation and supplies. After the war, he became a brigadier general in the Army Reserve.
        Mr. Kreml was president of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States from 1971 to 1975, and did much writing in his field over the years.
        His 1927 marriage to Margaret Parker ended in divorce in 1979.
        Besides his son, William, of Columbia, S.C., he is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Irene Bloom, whom he married in 1980; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      