
        Alan K. Campbell, the architect of the most sweeping changes in the Federal civil-service laws since the Administration of Theodore Roosevelt -- changes aimed at making the Government more efficient and enabling it to dismiss employees more easily for failing to do their jobs -- died on Wednesday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 74.
        The cause was complications from emphysema, a family member said.
        Mr. Campbell, chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission in the Carter Administration, was the primary force in guiding through Congress the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, which adapted private-sector management personnel and compensation practices to improve the Federal bureaucracy.
        As the first director of the Office of Personnel Management, a position he held in 1979 and 1980, Mr. Campbell also implemented the act, prompting President Jimmy Carter to say that its effects were ''among the most visible and far-reaching accomplishments of my Administration.''
        At midnight on Dec. 31, 1978, the 95-year-old Federal Civil Service Commission became defunct and was replaced by three new agencies that were, in a sense, Mr. Campbell's triplets: the Office of Personnel Management, the Merit System Protection Board and the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
        Under the old law, a civil servant could be dismissed only for poor performance that damaged the overall performance of the agency, a standard so stringent that few dismissals were sought. But under Mr. Campbell's design, the new law made it possible for a supervisor to dismiss an employee if a reasonable person would conclude that the employee's performance was inadequate. To help reach fair conclusions, Mr. Campbell enlisted the aid of the Business Roundtable, a group of corporate leaders, to draw up reasonable job-performance standards.
        Two years later, he accepted a job as executive vice president for management and public affairs at ARA Services, now known as Aramark, a service and management provider that operates worldwide in the food, business-uniform and education fields. Elected to the board in 1981, he was an active member until shortly before his death.
        Alan Keith Campbell was born in Elgin, Neb., and went to Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., but college was interrupted by World War II and service with the Navy in the Pacific. During naval training stateside, he met his future wife, Jane Owen. They were married in 1945 and remained so for 47 years, until her death in 1992. He is survived by their daughter, Kimberly C. Oxholm of Merion, Pa.; a son, C. Duncan, of Corvallis, Ore., and six grandchildren.
        After graduating from Whitman in 1946, Mr. Campbell obtained master's degrees in public affairs, at Wayne State University in Wayne, Neb., and at Harvard University, and a doctorate from Harvard in political economy and government in 1952.
        He taught at Harvard until 1954 and at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., until 1959. He was the Deputy Comptroller for the State of New York for two years. Afterward, he was dean at the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas and then at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University.
        His books included ''Taxes, Expenditures and Economic Base: Case of New York City'' (Praeger Publishers, 1974) and ''Watergate: Implications for Responsible Government'' (Basic Books 1974).
        What honored him most, he once said, were the successes of his students, though he refused to take any credit for them: ''The secret of education,'' he said, ''is to admit good students and then try do them very little harm.''
      