
        Jack Streit, a master matzoh maker devoted to keeping an ancient tradition and a family business alive on the Lower East Side, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89.
        Mr. Streit was president of Aron Streit Inc., the last independent matzoh company.
        By rights, the Streit factory on Rivington Street should have been shuttered long ago, the ovens sold for scrap, the small family-owned business gobbled up by some giant conglomerate and Mr. Streit freed from his 60-year routine to play golf, perhaps, or to travel the world or merely to laze around his house in the Manhattan Beach section of Brooklyn.
        But then, Mr. Streit was not much for golf. His travels were limited to short trips to Florida every couple of years, and he did not know from lazing. From the moment he joined the company that his father and mother started in 1914 and revived in 1923, Mr. Streit, a Manhattan native who never finished high school, was a man with a mission: making matzoh as well as he or anyone else could.
        Considering that matzoh is the most basic of breads, it is surprising how much care goes into its production. The problem is that matzoh is so basic, a simple -- and not especially appetizing -- mixture of plain flour and water, that the temptation to add just a little something extra to the dough can be overwhelming.
        That, of course, would undercut the symbolic value of matzoh as the authentic unleavened -- and unsalted and un-everything else -- bread that kept the Israelites alive on their flight from Egypt.
        And since what began as an Exodus expedient -- the fleeing Israelites did not have time to pack yeast or condiments -- became a powerful Passover tradition, those who prepare matzoh for Passover do not fool around with the recipe (88 pounds of flour and 25.6 pounds of water for the basic Streit batch) or the stringent rules of preparation, including a requirement that no more than 18 minutes elapse between introducing the flour to the water and the time the final flat wafer comes out of the 900-degree oven.
        As a baker, Mr. Streit was serious about his work. While his older brother, Irving, a businessman and buyer, was an executive who enjoyed a bit of world travel and other worldly pleasures now and again, Mr. Streit kept close to the ovens.
        After the death of their father in 1937, the brothers bought out their two sisters and continued to operate the business together. As the elder, Irving became president. But he and Mr. Streit were equal partners, running the business from desks along one wall of a ramshackle office whose main change over the years was the addition of more family pictures to the paneled walls.
        Since Irving Streit's death in 1982, Jack Streit had been president, sharing ownership and executive responsibilities with his brother's two daughters. But his attention was never far from the ovens, in part because they are so old that they have needed extensive attention.
        For all the care that goes into the preparation of Passover matzohs, which account for more than half the annual matzoh production, after the Passover batches had been baked and dispatched even a dedicated matzoh man like Mr. Streit could indulge his temptations, maybe even adding a little salt. Indeed, among the Streit line are lightly salted matzohs, dietetic matzohs and something called Egg N Onion matzohs.
        One reason that the company has survived, and even thrived, is that when it comes to a product as plain and as unvarying as matzohs, tradition is just about all that distinguishes one matzoh from another.
        To people who grew up on the Lower East Side before moving to the suburbs and beyond, Passover would simply not be Passover without the same brand of matzohs that they had known as children. As a result, Streit, which has only a small share of a market dominated by B. Manischewitz of Jersey City, has nationwide distribution.
        Taking advantage of the carefully nurtured brand loyalty, Streit offers 80 products, among them egg drop soup, tomato sauce, mayonnaise and ketchup, mostly made by other companies for sale under the Streit name.
        But for all the trendy outsourcing, Streit's matzohs are made only on Rivington Street. After all, for a product whose major marketing claim is a virtual tautology, continuity can be compelling. As the company's Web site puts it:
        'Why is Streit's Matzo different from all other domestic matzo brands?
        ''Because Streit's bakes only Streit's Matzo in our own ovens.''
        The very ovens that Mr. Streit supervised for more than 60 years.
        Mr. Streit is survived by two daughters, Myrna Heilbrun of Manhattan and Nettie Street of Manhattan Beach; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      