
        Dr. Jacob Cohen, a professor emeritus of psychology at New York University who reinvented some of the ways researchers in the behavioral sciences gather and interpret their statistics, died on Jan. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 74 and a resident of Greenwich Village and South Wellfleet on Cape Cod in Massachusetts.
        He had suffered a long illness, the university said.
        Dr. Cohen's seminal articles and books on statistical analysis put him among the most frequently cited academic psychologists. He made his peers aware of serious flaws in the methods they had been using to draw inferences from their psychological research.
        He devised new statistical methods with multiple variables at a time when computers began to take the tedium out of such calculations. One statistic he originated to measure diagnostic agreement in psychiatric investigations, known as Cohen's kappa, was widely adapted for bio statistics and medical research.
        ''For more than three decades, Professor Cohen has shaped and reshaped the nature of the treatment of data in psychological research,''  Drs. Leona S. Aiken and G. Stephen West, psychologists at Arizona State University, were quoted as saying by New York University. ''We can think of no other person working in the areas of measurement, evaluation and statistics who has contributed more to the understanding of quantitative issues in psychology than has Professor Cohen.''
        His handiwork showed up in thousands of scientific papers each year. For that, the American Psychological Society honored him with its Distinguished Lifetime Contribution Award last summer.
        Dr. Cohen spent 44 years teaching and researching at New York University. He entered City College at the age of 15, but seemed an indifferent scholar at first. He put in a stint with Army Intelligence in Europe before graduating in 1947. He earned a master's degree in 1948 and a Ph.D. in 1950 at New York University. He started there as an instructor in 1949 and was promoted to full professor 10 years later, when he was designated as the university's coordinator for quantitative psychology.
        After his formal retirement from the university's psychology department in 1993, he did research and served as a statistical consultant at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and New York State Psychiatric Institute, and at their joint H.I.V. Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies.
        Dr. Cohen set forth his strategy for achieving adequate sample sizes in a textbook, ''Statistical Power Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences'' (Erlbaum; second edition, 1988), which remains in print. Also in print is a book written with his wife and colleague, Dr. Patricia Cohen, called ''Applied Multiple Repression/Correlation Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences'' (Erlbaum; second edition, 1983). Lawrence Erlbaum said Dr. Cohen's books had consistently been among the publishing house's best sellers.
        He was elected a fellow in numerous professional organizations, including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Psychological Association, the American Psychological Society and the American Statistical Society.
        He also served as president of the Society for Multivariate Experimental Psychology.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Cohen is survived by three daughters, Marcia, of Portland, Me., Aviva Must of Swampscott, Mass., and Erika Waly-Bourn of Waltham, Mass.; a son, Gideon, of Montreal, and three grandchildren.
      