
        The Rev. John Garcia Gensel, who forged a remarkable relationship with New York's jazz musicians and their families as pastor and head of the ''jazz ministry'' at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in midtown, died Friday. He was 80.
        He was recuperating from a fall that occurred Dec. 19 and died at the Muncy Valley Nursing Home in Muncy, Pa., said Dale Lind, the Pastor to the Jazz Community at St. Peter's.
        For nearly three decades, Pastor Gensel carried out his singular calling at St. Peter's, which since 1977 has been in the Citicorp building at Lexington Avenue and 54th Street. He conducted a 5 P.M. night jazz vespers there each Sunday, officiated at weddings, funerals and memorial services of jazz musicians and their families, baptized their children, counseled them through crises and visited them when they were ill.
        ''He has been our spiritual guru, our psychiatrist and the greatest booster of American music,'' the drummer Max Roach has said.
        Born Juan Garcia Velez in Puerto Rico, Pastor Gensel was sent by his parents to live with his aunt in the wooded hills of Catawissa, Pa. He adopted his aunt's name, Gensel, and although baptized Roman Catholic, he began attending the local Lutheran church.
        He graduated from Susquehanna University in 1940 and later attended Gettysburg Seminary; during his second year at seminary, Pastor Gensel interned at Luther Place Memorial Church in Washington, where he met his wife, Audrey. He was a chaplain in World War II and served two Ohio congregations.
        Pastor Gensel came to New York City's Advent Lutheran Church in 1956. He took a jazz history course at the New School for Social Research taught by the writer Marshall Stearns and began frequenting Greenwich Village and Harlem nightclubs.
        He made friends quickly; as word got around about the hip minister, more and more musicians would come to him with personal and spiritual problems. The Lutheran Board of American Missions let Pastor Gensel devote half of his time to ministering to the jazz community and the other half attending to his church duties.
        It wasn't enough; increasingly, Pastor Gensel found himself attending to his parishioners between sets at jazz clubs. At one point, after going out to hear Charles Mingus 14 nights in a row, he decided that the battle between Saturday night and Sunday morning was spreading him too thin. In 1965 he sought and received special designation as Pastor to the Jazz Community in New York City.
        Along the way, he developed theories about the connection between jazz and religious love that went beyond his own musical predilections. ''I think jazz is probably the best music for worship,'' he once said, ''because it speaks to the existential situation of a human being. It is the personal expression of the person playing it.''
        He announced his retirement from the pulpit on New Year's Eve 1993, and returned to his childhood hometown of Catawissa; he was named Pastor Emeritus of Saint Peter's.
        In addition to his wife of 55 years, he is survived by his daughter, Carol of Tel Aviv; his two sons, John of New Vineyard, Maine, and James, of Palisades Park, N.Y., and nine grandchildren.
        Duke Ellington was a close friend and confidant; in 1968, he dedicated a piece to Pastor Gensel, ''The Shepherd (Who Watches Over the Night Flock),'' part of his ''Second Sacred Concert.'' Billy Strayhorn, the composer and arranger, willed to Pastor Gensel a Steinway piano, which he kept near his pulpit.
        Pastor Gensel's funeral and memorial services, duties since passed on to Pastor Lind, have become the proper mode of respect toward jazz royalty in New York; he officiated services for Ellington, Thelonious Monk, John Coltrane, Coleman Hawkins, Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie and Erroll Garner, among many others.
        The services were (and continue to be) unique events of spirited performances, reminiscence and spontaneous jam sessions.
        In 1970, Pastor Gensel began a popular annual marathon concert called All-Nite Soul, 12 hours of jazz big bands, solos, quintets and gospel choirs.
        Once asked if he was worried about jazz's attracting a wayward, nightclub element to his services, Pastor Gensel replied, ''That's the kind we want in church. The good ones can stay home. A church is a congregation of sinners, not an assembly of saints.''
      