
        Mihaly Igloi, a tyrant of a track coach who fled to the United States during the 1956 Hungarian revolution and coached some of the world's leading middle-distance runners, died on Sunday in Budapest. He was 89.
        His death was announced by the International Amateur Athletic Federation, the world governing body of track and field, from its headquarters in Monte Carlo.
        Igloi successively coached the Santa Monica Track Association, the Santa Clara Valley Youth Village and the Los Angeles Track Club, all in California, and became an American citizen in 1963. In the 1970's, he coached in Greece. According to the I.A.A.F., his runners broke 49 world, 45 American and 157 Greek records.
        He coached Bob Schul, an American, to the 1964 Olympic gold medal at 5,000 meters. He coached such world-class milers as Sandor Iharos in Hungary and Laszlo Tabori and the cigarette-smoking Istvan Rozsavolgyi in Hungary and the United States. He also coached such outstanding American milers as Jim Beatty and Dyrol Burleson.
        In four years under Igloi's coaching, Beatty became the first sub-four-minute miler indoors (3 minutes 58.9 seconds in 1962) and ran 3:55.0 outdoors in 1963. He now heads a management and executive search and recruiting firm in Charlotte, N.C.
        ''He was a tough guy,'' Beatty said yesterday, ''a coach from the European school that says: 'I am the coach. You are the athlete. You will do what I say or you will leave the classroom.' For him to coach you, you had to approach him. He would never ask anyone if he could coach him because he didn't think there would be a psychological commitment. As a result, you respected his coaching ability and training theories. He would bring you not only to your goals, but greater goals that he saw in you.''
        Igloi started his track career as a pole-vaulter, and at 19 he was the Hungarian junior champion. He became a decent 800-meter and 1,500-meter runner. He was entranced by the interval-training regimen of Janis Kusocinski, a Polish distance champion, who ran 200-meter repetitions over and over. He studied with famous coaches in Germany, Finland and Sweden, training under them, living in their homes and developing his own training methods.
        After World War II, he became a professor of history at the University of Budapest. In 1952, he was named to Hungary's national coaching staff. Three years later, his runners burst onto the world scene.
        Igloi compared his runners to violin players preparing for a concert, repeating a piece over and over.
        ''Nobody questioned anything he told them about training or race tactics,'' Beatty recalled. ''Well, I questioned him once. In the 1963 New York A.C. meet in Madison Square Garden, I was ready to break my own world indoor record in the mile. Before the race, he told me to run easily and just run to win.
        ''But the Garden was sold out and I could feel the electricity. I said, 'Coach, I think the crowd came to see a world record in the mile and I'd like to give it to them.' He looked at me for a few seconds and didn't say anything. Then he said, 'I changed my mind.' He changed the lap times and the race plan. I wanted to seize the moment, and I did. I set a world record of 3:58.6.''
        No information was available about survivors.
      