
        Robert Hughes Brisbane, a retired social scientist and historian at Morehouse College who wrote about the civil rights movement in its early years, died on Jan. 23 at the Georgia Baptist Health Center in Atlanta. He was 84.
        Dr. Brisbane, who lived in Atlanta, spent much of his life defying unfair racial practices and devising strategies against them. He was born in Jacksonville, Fla., and reared in Harlem amid the political and literary ferment of the period now known as a renaissance.
        Influenced by men like Marcus Garvey and W. E. B. Du Bois, Dr. Brisbane in turn became a counselor to a younger generation of civil rights campaigners in the South. He was well known beyond the Atlanta campus of Morehouse as the author of a textbook, ''The Black Vanguard: Origins of the Negro Social Revolution, 1900-1960'' (Judson, 1970), and a later book, ''Black Activism: Racial Revolution in the United States, 1954-1970'' (Judson, 1974).
        Dr. Brisbane learned politics and policy planning on Harlem street corners, and he learned to debate at St. John's University, where he graduated in 1939. During World War II, he worked at a defense plant in Bridgeport, Conn., where he was moved to organize a slowdown by fellow blacks whose wages were lower than those earned by whites. The action helped bring about a Presidential order against discrimination in war production.
        After receiving a doctorate in political science from Harvard University in 1949, Dr. Brisbane was recruited by Morehouse College. He started as a professor, organized the Department of Political Science, and served as chairman from 1965 until  he retired in 1985. He returned twice to teach, giving his final course in political science two years ago.
        When he moved to Atlanta, Dr. Brisbane wasted no time in taking up the cudgels for political and social equality. He was a founder of the Negro Voters League there.
        In 1984, Morehouse established the Brisbane Institute to promote his political and educational objectives. The institute sponsors scholarships, sets up internships and takes part in off-campus community projects.
        Dr. Brisbane is survived by a daughter, Phillipa Brisbane of Atlanta; two brothers, Dr. Samuel, of Manhattan, and Levi, of the Bronx; and a sister, Dr. Era Brisbane, also of Manhattan. His wife of 59 years, Dr. Kathryn Brown Brisbane, died in 1993.
      