
        Sam Marcy, an unabashed, unreconstructed and uncommonly prolific Marxist-Leninist, died on Feb. 1 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and as the founder of the Workers World Party had never wavered in his devotion to what he saw as the pure, shining core of an authentic political philosophy tarnished by tyranny and undermined by apostasy.
        Mr. Marcy did not need to be reminded that he was a marginal political figure. The Workers World Party, the independent Communist party he founded in 1959, has never drawn more than 20,000 votes in a presidential election.
        What kept him going, turning out tract after tract year after year, was a bedrock conviction that operating on the fringes of the American political spectrum put him precisely in the main current of world social history, a history he was convinced would lead to a triumph of the downtrodden masses over their capitalist oppressors.
        His ideas may have been grounded in Marxian analysis of class struggle, but they were also true to Mr. Marcy's personal history.
        Born in a Jewish settlement in eastern Russia in 1911 a few months after his father emigrated to the United States, Mr. Marcy, his mother and his two siblings spent the better part of a harrowing decade in the throes of the Russian Revolution, fleeing the pogroms carried out by the counterrevolutionary White Guard and finding protection at the hands of the Red Army, ''our army,'' as he recalled it.
        Mr. Marcy, whose earliest memories included losing a shoe one night while running away from a marauding White Guard patrol, had it a bit better after his family was reunited in Brooklyn.
        But he never forgot that time in Russia, and while his father was too busy making a living to think about politics, Mr. Marcy seems to have thought of little else while growing up in Coney Island.
        By the time he got his first job as a teen-ager at a laundry, he was such a committed Marxist that he promptly began trying to organize a laundry union, an effort that failed, he later concluded, because in his inexperienced zeal he had prematurely pushed The Daily Worker and other propaganda of the Communist Party and the Young Communist League on workers who lacked the political sophistication to appreciate it.
        Later, after receiving a law degree from St. John's University, he became a top official of a small union of paper box workers, but after he led a successful strike, his politics cost him his job.
        Even so, Mr. Marcy, who was proud of his reputation as a realist with a knack for practical solutions, felt he was more effective as an informal union consultant.
        During one strike, for example, when a judge ordered severe limits on the number of pickets, a union official called Mr. Marcy. The next day the picket lines were filled with the strikers' wives, children and friends, none of them, Mr. Marcy had pointed out, covered by the court order.
        For all his devotion to Marx, Mr. Marcy, who belonged to many socialist groups over the years, seems to have been suspicious of the Communist Party from the beginning, blaming German Communists, for example, both for allowing the Nazi takeover, and then for abandoning the class struggle altogether.
        He had similar misgivings about the Communist Party in the United States, deriding party leaders as bourgeoise fellow travelers.
        Appalled by Stalin's murderous reign, he was even more appalled by what he viewed as the hand-wringing Communist quislings who used Stalin's crimes as an excuse to temper their support of the Soviet Union.
        It was not easy for a party to meet Mr. Marcy's tough Marxist standards. After helping to organize a Socialist Workers Party branch in Buffalo, Mr. Marcy became so disenchanted with the party's direction that in 1959 he, his wife, Dorothy Ballan, and others formed the Workers World Party.
        Over the next decades he turned out a torrent of articles for the party newspaper, subjecting virtually every national and international development to close Marxist analysis and finding little to cheer him.
        In a 1990 collection, ''Perestroika: A Marxist Critique,'' he took Mikhail S. Gorbachev to task for embracing capitalistic techniques and leading ''a wholesale retreat from socialist goals.'' He was hardly more pleased with developments under Boris N. Yeltsin.
        Yet he remained an optimist. He reached only a tiny audience, but Mr. Marcy took comfort in his belief that he was writing for the ages, that the day would come, perhaps after a resurgent American labor movement had finally routed capitalism, when he would be read with awe and gratitude.
        Mr. Marcy, whose wife died in 1992, leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  February 13, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Sam Marcy, a founder of the Workers World Party, omitted the names of his survivors. Mr. Marcy, whose real surname was Ballan, is survived by two sons from an early marriage, Irving Ballan of Boca Raton, Fla., and Dr. Kenneth Ballan of Chatsworth, Calif.; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      