
        Norman J. Levy, a Republican State Senator from Nassau County who sponsored the nation's first mandatory seat belt law and championed the New York metropolitan region's mass transit system, died on Saturday night at his home in Albany. He was 67 and also lived in Merrick, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from a brain tumor, James Moriarty, a spokesman for Senator Levy, said. Mr. Levy had been recovering from emergency brain surgery in June.
        A senator for 27 years, Mr. Levy was the most senior member of Long Island's delegation. He had been chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee since 1982.
        In that position, he tended his own political backyard, securing state money to improve and repair the roadways and parkways that Robert Moses had built, as well as the Long Island Rail Road.
        But he also defied political expectations, becoming a tenacious defender of the region's mass transit system. He played a crucial role in developing a series of capital programs for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that helped rescue the system from the brink of collapse in the 1980's. At the same time, he was known for trying to hold the authority accountable for how it spent the money he had won for it.
        He also tackled broader issues, sometimes crossing the aisle to win support for measures to make highways safer. In 1984, he sponsored the state's mandatory seat belt law, the first in the nation, requiring all passengers to wear the belts in the front seats of automobiles. At the time, he said, ''states across the nation will follow like dominoes.'' More than 40 states now have seat belt laws.
        For several years, Senator Levy sponsored ''zero tolerance'' legislation, finally signed by Gov. George E. Pataki in 1996, that imposed penalties on drivers younger than 21 who were caught with even trace amounts of alcohol in their blood.
        United States Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who said Mr. Levy had been a friend and neighbor for 35 years, said he was committed to meeting the needs of his constituents. ''He would go door to door, not because he was ever in a close election after his first one, but because he wanted to know how things were,'' Senator D'Amato said.
        Senator Levy was born in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Bucknell University in 1952 and a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1958. In between, he served two years in the United States Army.
        Senator Levy was appointed an assistant district attorney of Nassau County in 1959. Three years later, he became chief of the Nassau County Rackets Bureau, directing the prosecution of organized crime.
        He was elected to the Senate in 1970 to represent a district covering southern Nassau. Mr. Levy was chairman of the Senate Committee on Labor from 1973 to 1982. He became chairman of the Senate Republican Majority Conference in 1989.
        Last June 16, Senator Levy was helped off the Senate floor in a wheelchair after showing signs of exhaustion. A neurological assessment indicated the presence of a brain mass, most of which was removed during surgery. Senator Levy had returned to work on a limited basis since then.
        Senator Levy, who will be buried in Babylon, is survived by his wife, Joy. Mrs. Levy has muscular dystrophy, and Senator Levy was known among colleagues for his round-the-clock devotion to her.
      