
        The Rev. Thomas Kilgore Jr., a leading figure in the struggle for racial justice and one of the few men to lead two major national Baptist organizations, died Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. Mr. Kilgore was pastor emeritus of Second Baptist Church, the oldest black Baptist church in Los Angeles. He was 84.
        Mr. Kilgore, who lived in Los Angeles, became pastor at Second Baptist in 1963. He had spent the previous 16 years as pastor of Friendship Baptist Church in Harlem, where he rose to prominence in the civil rights movement.
        Mr. Kilgore began his efforts for equality in the 1940's registering voters and organizing tobacco workers in North and South Carolina. In Harlem, he worked to end segregation in the schools and in housing.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, he worked closely with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and played a significant role in his Southern Christian Leadership Conference in the South and on both coasts. He was a primary organizer of the Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom to Washington in 1957 and of the civil rights March on Washington of 1963.
        By the late 1960's, the American Baptist Convention -- since 1972 the American Baptist Churches USA -- was feeling pressure from its black members, who were a minority among the 1.5 million congregants. Demands for a qualified African-American steward led to Mr. Kilgore's nomination and overwhelming election as the organization's first black president.
        He was installed at the annual meeting in 1969 and served for a year. Only one other predominantly white Protestant body -- the United Presbyterian Church -- had selected a black leader by that time. The Presbyterian group had chosen the Rev. Dr. Elder G. Hawkins as its moderator in 1964.
        Mr. Kilgore went on to lead the majority black Progressive National Baptist Convention and its membership of more than two million. He served as its president from 1976 to 1978.
        ''In all his ministries, Tom Kilgore brought a caring pastoral concern, a deep commitment to addressing social challenges and opportunities, and an exemplary modeling of outreach in the name of Jesus Christ,'' said the Rev. Dr. Daniel E. Weiss, general secretary of American Baptist Churches USA. ''He always will be remembered as a leader of strength and compassion on many levels of church life.''
        Mr. Kilgore was born in Woodruff, S.C., and graduated from Morehouse College in Atlanta in 1935. He moved to Manhattan after serving congregations in the Carolinas. He received his divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1957.
        As pastor of Freedom Baptist Church on West 131st Street, he raised bail money for civil rights workers jailed in the South well before Dr. King's name became a household word.
        He also served as founding president of the Heart of Harlem Neighborhood Church Association, an arm of the city's Protestant Council, organized in 1957 to counter segregation in New York.
        In Los Angeles, he worked toward ecumenism and, particularly after the 1992 riots, for dialogue across racial lines. He also was instrumental in getting the University of California at Los Angeles to become more involved socially with the surrounding community.
        Mr. Kilgore assumed the status of senior pastor at Second Baptist in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeannetta; two daughters, Jini Ross of Katy, Tex., and Lynn Elda Hendy of New York City; two sisters, Malissa Briley of Los Angeles, and Ella Maye Adams of Goldsboro, N.C.; two brothers, Thaddus, of Brevard, N.C., and Rockefeller, of Charlotte, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      