
        Thomas G. Dunn, the blunt, often irascible former Mayor of Elizabeth, N.J., who was a major figure in the city's politics over four decades, died Wednesday at his home in the city.  He was 76 years old.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his son, Thomas G. Dunn Jr.
        Mr. Dunn, a maverick Democrat and former union official, had served as mayor of the largely working-class city for 28 years, but he was defeated in his own party's primary in June 1992. Still, his tenure earned him the distinction as the nation's longest-serving mayor of a city of more than 100,000 people.
        Mr. Dunn could boast of a life that included a distinguished military record, the founding of a labor union, service in the State Legislature and a love affair with Irish music and culture that he shared with others on a weekly radio program. But he once quipped to his family that the only ''steady job'' he ever really held was being mayor of the state's fourth-largest city.
        A fiercely independent politician, Mr. Dunn broke ranks with party officials regularly and publicly. In 1972, he served as national co-chairman of the Democrats for Nixon.  After supporting President Jimmy Carter in 1980, he signed on to the Reagan Revolution in 1984 as head of  Democrats for Reagan in New Jersey. And, in 1993 he was state co-chairman of a group of Democrats supporting Republican Christine Todd Whitman in her successful challenge to incumbent Democrat Thomas Florio.
        In addition, over the years, he supported several Republican members of Congress, further angering Democratic leaders. As a result, he faced opposition in the Democratic primary each time he sought re-election. Often, those primaries were close, but Mr. Dunn usually won his general elections by sizable margins.
        Mr. Dunn's bluntness was also evident in his approach to city social problems. In 1967, when neighboring Newark was gripped by race riots, Mr. Dunn issued a ''shoot to kill''  order to police. Some called the order overly harsh, but others credited it with preventing the violence from spilling over into Elizabeth.
        In 1974, at the height of the gasoline shortages as angry motorists formed long lines at fuel pumps, Elizabeth led the nation's urban areas in instituting a rationing plan based on even- and odd-number license tags.
        In the 80's, he angered Hispanics -- who made up about one-third of the city population -- by ordering city workers to speak only English while at work. As civil liberties groups threatened to sue and some Hispanic groups criticized him, Mr. Dunn stood by his order, promising to discharge flagrant violators.
        ''There weren't many sacred cows as far as he was concerned,'' said Henry Kurz, a former Union County Freeholder and a Republican.
        Mr. Dunn's son, Thomas G. Dunn Jr., added: ''Once he became convinced of a position, he went with it 100 percent. You always knew where he stood and he didn't believe in polling.''
        Born in Elizabeth, Mr. Dunn was the son of Irish immigrants who had settled in the city in the shadow of a bustling port.
        Shortly after graduating from high school he joined the U.S. Navy where he served as an aerial gunner during World War II and earned the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal.
        After he was discharged in 1945, he went to work at the Western Electric plant in Kearny where he was active in the founding of Local 1470 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
        He first ran for office in 1950, seeking a seat on the Elizabeth City Council. He lost by six votes. Two years later he came back and won.
        In 1959, he won a seat on the Union County Board of Freeholders, but two years later, he lost his first bid for mayor of Elizabeth. In 1964 he tried again and won his first of seven terms in City Hall. He took over the office in January 1965.
        While he was mayor, he also represented his area in the State Senate, vigorously fighting the adoption of the Equal Rights Amendment.
        From 1974 to 1992, Mr. Dunn could be heard weekly on the local WJDM-FM hosting ''Tom Dunn's Irish Show.'' It was a labor of love, said his son, and featured Irish music, items on Irish culture and snippets about Mr. Dunn's many visits to the Isle.
        In 1982, Mr. Dunn founded the Thornsticks, a local charitable group that quietly helped families in need.  The name was taken from the crooked walking sticks used in Ireland.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Westfield, he is survived by his wife, Sally, who had been his secretary for 27 years and whom he married in 1995; a daughter, Kathleen Priestley of Westfield; a brother, Gerard Dunn of Brielle; two sisters, Genevieve Dunn of Spring Lake Heights and Margaret Koste of Mountainside, and four grandchildren.
        His first wife, Ruth, died in 1989.
        Funeral services will be at 9 A.M. on Saturday at Higgins and Bonner Echo Lake Funeral Home in Westfield.
      