
        Robert E. McEnroe, who wrote ''The Silver Whistle,'' a frequently revived 1948 Broadway comedy about a garrulous tramp who spreads good cheer through a home for the aged, died on Feb. 6 at the Hughes Convalescent Home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 82.
        Mr. McEnroe had written a dozen plays in his spare time while working in the research department at United Aircraft in Hartford before he drew attention in 1947 by selling two in one day to different Broadway producers, an unusual feat for an unproduced playwright.
        One play was ''The Silver Whistle,'' which opened to critical praise on Broadway and later toured the country. It has frequently been revived, and was turned into a movie and a television play. Among the actors who played the cheerful hobo were Jose Ferrer, John Carradine, Lloyd Nolan and Eddie Albert.
        The play had a strange fate in Hollywood. Clifton Webb was signed to play the part under the direction of Henry Koster.
        First, the title was changed to ''You're Only Young Twice.'' Then, based on the popularity of the Mr. Belvedere character that Mr. Webb played in the hit film ''Sitting Pretty,'' the lead character was changed to Mr. Belvedere and the film was first renamed ''Mr. Belvedere Blows His Whistle'' and then released in 1951 as ''Mr. Belvedere Rings the Bell.''
        The second play that Mr. McEnroe sold to producers that day in 1947 was ''Mulligan's Snug,'' about Irishmen in New York City plotting rebellion in Ulster. Though it passed through a succession of producers, who more than once announced plans to open it on Broadway, it was never produced.
        Indeed, Mr. McEnroe did not return to Broadway until 1961, when he wrote the book for the short-lived musical ''Donnybrook!'' starring Eddie Foy Jr., Susan Johnson and Art Lund.
        The musical, with songs by Johnny Burke, was based on the Maurice Walsh story ''The Quiet Man,'' which had been filmed in 1952 by John Ford and which starred John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara.
        Mr. McEnroe is survived by his wife, Barbara, and a son, Colin, a writer and radio host in Hartford.
        Of the years he tried to teach himself play writing in his spare time, Mr. McEnroe once said: ''I wrote 12 plays in 10 years without earning a penny more than my factory wages. The only thing this proves is that it's nice to have a job, no matter what.''
      