
        Anthony W. Le Vier, a test pilot who helped pioneer the development of American jet fighters in the 1940's and 50's and who made the first test flights of the U-2 spy plane, died on Feb. 6 at Verdugo Hills Hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 84 and lived in La Canada.
        Once, when speaking before people in the aviation industry, Mr. Le Vier admitted to ''some embarrassing facts.'' He said he had been involved in ''8 crashes, 58 near-crashes, 5 tailspins to ground level, 26 forced landings, 5 canopy losses, 20 pilot errors, 1 midair collision and 9 near-midair collisions.''
        Such were the perils of taking 20  types of aircraft on their first test flights and hurtling through the skies at speeds exceeding 1,000 miles per hour in a career that spanned almost a half-century.
        Mr. Le Vier was the chief engineering test pilot for the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation from 1945 to 1955 and then its director of flying operations until retiring in 1974. He made more than 24,000 flights in about 260 types of aircraft. Despite the calamities, he bailed out of a plane only once.
        Mr. Le Vier (pronounced luh VEER) was born in Duluth, Minn., on Feb. 14, 1913, and moved to Southern California with his family as a child. Inspired by Lindbergh's epic flight across the Atlantic in 1927, he scraped together $5 from selling discarded tires and other junked items and got a pilot to take him aloft. He was immediately hooked on flying.
        He flew solo at the age of 17. In the early and mid-1930's, he barnstormed through the East in a tri-motor plane, ran a flying school and won air races in Arizona and California.
        Mr. Le Vier experienced a taste of the close calls to come in the 1937 National Air Races in Cleveland when his Pobjoy Special rolled upside down soon after takeoff. But he righted it and made a crash landing. He had better luck in 1938, when he won the Greve Trophy Race at the nationals, and he finished second in 1939 at the nationals in the premier Thompson Trophy Race, then considered the nation's greatest test of flying skill.
        He was the chief research test pilot for the General MotorsCorporation in 1940 and 1941 and joined Lockheed in the spring of 1941. He ferried Lockheed's Hudson bombers from Burbank, Calif., to Canada for transfer to the Royal Air Force of Britain. He tested the twin-engine P-38 Lightning fighter and visited bases in Britain, showing American pilots how to fly with only one working engine.
        In 1943, Mr. Le Vier began test flights at the new Lockheed Skunk Works program. Taking its name from the foul-smelling distillery in Al Capp's ''Li'l Abner,'' the top-secret installation -- near a smelly chemical plant in Burbank -- turned out innovative planes like the U-2, later at the heart of a cold war furor, as well as the SR-71 Blackbird and the Stealth bomber.
        One of Mr. Le Vier's first jobs at the Skunk Works was to test a jet fighter. In June 1944, he made the first flight of the XP-80A, the experimental version of the Army Air Forces' first operational jet, the Shooting Star. A wing flap failed to retract, but he brought the plane down safely.
        In March 1945, while he was flying the XP-80A at 10,000 feet over the Mojave Desert at 550 m.p.h., the engine disintegrated and sliced off the tail. Mr. Le Vier bailed out and suffered two crushed vertebrae and was hospitalized in a steel brace for five months.
        He took the nation's first jet trainer, the T-Bird, on its maiden flight in 1948. On a subsequent flight, he was nearly killed when the canopy tore off and the blast ripped the helmet from his head.
        In 1954, Mr. Le Vier became the first pilot to exceed 1,000 m.p.h when he made the maiden flight of the XF-104 Starfighter, the prototype of the popular F-104 fighter.
        The next summer, Mr. Le Vier became involved in development of the U-2, the long-winged plane built by Lockheed for the Central Intelligence Agency to photograph Soviet missile installations from altitudes of about 70,000 feet. Mr. Le Vier spent two weeks flying over and photographing possible desert sites in California, Arizona and Nevada where the plane could be secretly tested. The C.I.A. settled on Groom Lake, a dry lake bed about 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas.
        Early in August 1955, Mr. Le Vier took the U-2 down a runway for a taxi test. The plane was so buoyant that it popped 35 feet in the air, forcing him to cut the power and slam it back to the ground.
        But on Aug. 8, Mr. Le Vier took the U-2 on its maiden flight, later recalling that the plane ''went up like a homesick angel.'' Mr. Le Vier and other Lockheed pilots soon met with Strategic Air Command officers, showing them how to train U-2 pilots.
        The plane flew over the Soviet Union without incident for four years. But on May 1, 1960, a U-2 flown by Francis Gary Powers, a civilian under contract with the C.I.A., was downed by a missile on the eve of a summit conference between President Dwight D. Eisenhower and the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev. When Mr. Powers was captured and the spy project exposed, the Russians canceled the summit meeting.
        After 17 months in prison, Mr. Powers was released by the Soviet Government in exchange for the Soviet spy Rudolf Abel. Mr. Le Vier flew the U-2 once again in 1980, taking it up at Beale Air Force Base in California on the 25th anniversary of his maiden test flight.
        He invented several safety devices in the 1940's and 50's, and in 1982, he formed Safe Action in Flight Emergency, a nonprofit program that trains civilian pilots to handle life-threatening situations.
        Mr. Le Vier was a member of the federally chartered National Aviation Hall of Fame and received the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum's award for Lifetime Achievement in Aviation and Flight Safety.
        He is survived by his wife, Neva; two daughters, Marylynn, of Hemet, Calif., and Toniann, of Santa Cruz, Calif., and five grandchildren. In looking back on his exploits, Mr. Le Vier took a positive view, even when recalling the times when things went catastrophically awry.
        As for the day he parachuted over the Mojave Desert when his engine blew up, he observed: ''Bad luck? Well, not all bad; the results of that morning's work were one wrecked airplane, one scared pilot and some invaluable information. We found out, the hard way, just what happens when a defective turbine wheel lets go in a jet airplane being flown at high speed.'' But He added: ''Fortunately, not all aviation progress is made in this way.''
        Correction:  February 26, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 16 about Anthony Le Vier, a test pilot, misidentified the type of stealth plane that was manufactured at the Lockheed Skunk Works. It was a fighter, not a bomber.
      