
        Howard Gilman, the chairman of the Gilman Paper Company, who was a philanthropist and a collector of photographs and other art, died on Saturday on an estate near Jacksonville, Fla. He was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan.
        Mr. Gilman, who had had heart trouble for some time, died of a heart attack, said Dr. Jeffrey S. Borer, a cardiologist who was his longtime physician and a friend.
        Mr. Gilman was stricken while visiting the estate, White Oak Plantation. It is the Southern headquarters of the Howard Gilman Foundation, of which he had been president since its formation in 1981. The foundation's executive offices are in midtown Manhattan.
        At his death, Mr. Gilman was chief executive as well as chairman of the Gilman Paper Company and various subsidiaries. He had been chairman since 1973 and had been chief executive continuously since 1982.
        The company, owned by the Gilman family for three generations, operates paper-manufacturing mills in southeastern Georgia and owns forest land, mainly in Georgia and Florida. Its headquarters are also in midtown Manhattan.
        Mr. Gilman was intensely interested in the preservation of endangered species and in dance, in addition to art collecting. The Howard Gilman Foundation was set up to support activities in the arts and in wildlife conservation, and medical research into H.I.V., AIDS and cardiology.
        The Gilman Paper Company's collection of about 5,000 photographs was Mr. Gilman's brainchild. The more than 250 photographs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's 1993 show ''The Waking Dream: Photography's First Century'' were from that collection. The New York Times critic John Russell wrote in The Times that the show was ''an event of cardinal importance in the museum world'' and that the Gilman collection bore ''at every point the mark of an original, resourceful and unprejudiced curiosity.''
        The Howard Gilman Foundation also gave the endowment for the Metropolitan Museum's first permanent gallery dedicated exclusively to photography, the Howard Gilman Gallery, which was inaugurated in October.
        Mr. Gilman's involvement with dance included support for the  American Ballet Theatre and numerous other dance companies, Mikhail Baryshnikov and other dancers and choreographers. He also oversaw the formation of a wildlife conservation center, on the White Oak Plantation.
        Other beneficiaries of his largess include Tel Aviv University, the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and the Juilliard School in Manhattan.
        Mr. Gilman was born and reared  on Manhattan's Upper East Side, attended Horace Mann School in the Bronx, received a bachelor's degree in 1944 from Dartmouth, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and served in the Navy during part of World War II.
        He is survived by his mother, Sylvia Gilman of Manhattan.
      