
        Richard Elman, a novelist, poet and critic who taught for many years at the Bennington College Summer Writing Workshops in Vermont, died on Wednesday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. A resident of Stony Brook, he was 63.
        The cause was lung cancer, which had been diagnosed in October, his family said.
        Mr. Elman published more than 20 books, some of them reflecting his Jewish upbringing, and three volumes of poetry. At his death he had finished three more books awaiting publication.
        Aside from Bennington, he taught writing at Columbia University, Sarah Lawrence College, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. In recent years he also taught Jewish literature and creative writing at Notre Dame University.
        He was the author of a pungent comic novel, ''Tar Beach'' (Sun & Moon, 1991), in which he related the story of an 8-year-old boy growing up Jewish in Brooklyn after World War II. Its theme is family life, unfolding one scorching August afternoon as a group of men and women take the sun on the thickly tarred, partitioned roof of their synagogue.
        In The New York Times Book Review, John Domini called it a ''first-rate'' novel that delivers ''with admirable light-heartedness'' the bad news of just how fragile family life is wont to be.
        ''Rarely has a slice of life been cut so thin, so elegantly,'' Mr. Domini wrote.
        The book was one of Mr. Elman's favorites. It had been 15 years in the making, though a version of the first chapter appeared in the Bennington Review. Defying rejection slips, he worked on other projects but always returned to ''Tar Beach'' until a scout for Sun & Moon Press, a small California publisher, heard him reading from it at a Manhattan bar and sent it to the editors.
        Richard Martin Elman, who described himself as a Socialist, was born in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, graduated from Syracuse University in 1955 and received a master's degree at Stanford University two years later. He worked variously as a public affairs director for WBAI-FM in New York, a correspondent in Central America and a ghostwriter for a poverty program.
        When his first novel, ''A Coat for the Czar'', came out in 1959 he realized that writing fiction was all he really wanted to do. His next big project turned into a trilogy about a Hungarian Jewish family, ''The Twenty-Eighth Day of Elul'' (1967), ''Lilo's Diary'' (1968), and ''The Reckoning'' (1969).
        Throughout his career, he also contributed articles, essays and book reviews to many publications, The New York Times frequently among them.
        Some of his writing, including novels and poems, used pseudonyms (Delmar Hawks, Michael Lasker, Fred McShane, Michael Parnell, Eric Pearl, John Howland Stryker) because he believed that writers must speak in different voices lest they start sounding like their own echoes.
        His latest book, ''Namedropping,'' of reflections on his life and work and the people he got to know, is due out in the spring at New York State University Press, his family members said. Two other finished books, ''The Music Master's Diary'' and ''Love Handles,'' are scheduled for publication by Sun & Moon, they said.
        Mr. Elman is survived by his wife of 20 years, Alice Elman; their daughter, Lila Elman, of Stony Brook; his elder daughter by an earlier marriage, Margaret Elman, and a brother, Leonard, both of Manhattan. His marriage to Emily Schorr, also of Manhattan, ended in divorce.
      