
        Ernst Junger, an aloof warrior-author regarded as one of Germany's most controversial and contradictory writers, died yesterday in Wilflingen, in southwestern Germany, where he had lived for nearly 50 years. He was 102.
        Mr. Junger was so well regarded that Chancellor Helmut Kohl and President Roman Herzog defied snow and freezing spring winds to attend his 100th birthday in Wilflingen, a village in Upper Swabia. But he also was so disliked that at the same time he was being extolled as a master stylist, he was being denounced by others as a warmonger and Nazi apologist.
        For Mr. Junger, war and writing were often indivisible. At 19 he volunteered for army duty the day Kaiser Wilhelm ordered mobilization that led to World War I in August 1914. Soon he was at the Western front with the 73d Fusiliers.
        Regimental histories spoke repeatedly of his daring and valor. He was wounded for the first time in April 1915 in Lorraine and was subsequently wounded at least six more times. In 1917 he was awarded the Knights Cross of the House of Hohenzollern, and eight months later, his commanding general, commenting on his ''ruthless bravery,'' secured for him imperial Germany's highest medal, the Pour le Merite. He was believed to have been the last man alive to hold the imperial medal.
        Mr. Junger published his first work, ''Stahlgewittern'' (''Storm of Steel: From the Diary of a German Storm-Troop Officer on the Western Front.''), privately in 1920; subsequent editions became a commercial and critical success and appeared in other countries. Based on the diaries he kept in the trenches from 1915 through 1918, ''Stahlgewittern'' is a memorial to fallen comrades and an attempt to make sense of his war experiences, but it also revels in the glory of combat.
        Many critics in Germany and abroad praised Mr. Junger's work because it did not censor events or thoughts but presented them as they occurred. His subsequent books included ''Combat as an Internal Experience,'' ''Storm,'' ''The Copse'' and ''Fire and Blood.'' These books, filled with what one critic later called ''bombastic pathos,'' made him the darling of nascent radical nationalist movements, including Adolf Hitler's National Socialist German Workers Party. Indeed, Mr. Junger contributed an article in 1923 to its newspaper, Volkischer Beobachter, advocating revolutionary nationalism and a dictatorship.
        But he declined to join the Nazis, gravitating instead to other extremist fringe groups, ranging from the right-wing Stahlhelm to the left-wing National Bolshevists. Despite this, some literary historians regard him as primarily a loner who paid homage to an aristocratic ideal and was imbued with a kind of Germanic fatalism. Like earlier German writers, among them Heinrich von Kleist and Friedrich Hebbel, he was fascinated with death and heroism. He was influenced by the nihilist streak of Friedrich Nietzsche, the end-of-the-world ideas of Oswald Spengler and the formalistic philosophy of Hegel.
        His writings in the 1920's, with their attacks on bourgeois culture and ''civility,'' played into the prejudices of the Nazis. But he rebuffed repeated wooing by Hitler's party, refusing the offer of a seat in the Reichstag in 1927 and, after Hitler seized power in 1933, membership in the Nazified German Academy.
        A frequent criticism of Mr. Junger was that he registered events only at a cool distance, never passing judgment or injecting an emotional note. ''The more the panic grows,'' he wrote, ''the more uplifting the image of a man who refuses to bow to the terror.''
        Writing on the occasion of Mr. Junger's 100th birthday, the historian Joachim Fest said it was frustrating to try to discern the difference between Mr. Junger's early and later writing because his style prevented the reader from discovering what moved him, frightened him or allowed him to hope. He described this style as ''an odd mixture of elevatedness, precision and the rudiments of a German out of the General Staff schooled in Spartan brevity.''
        A passage from his novella ''On the Marble Cliffs'' may serve as a sample: ''Fish scales gleamed, a gull wing cut through the salt air, jellyfish stretched and loosened their umbrellas, the fronds of a coconut palm waved in the wind, oysters opened to the light. In the sea garden the brown and green seaweed and purple forms of the water lilies swayed. The fine crystal sand of dunes whirled up.''
        The ''Marble Cliffs,'' published in the year World War II began, became a seminal Junger work, pitting a high-minded teacher against the ''senior forester,'' a brutal and demonic totalitarian who is hungry for power. The forester orders his underlings to strip the bones out of human corpses and to tan their skins. In the end, the hero escapes, saying, ''So I swear to myself in the future to fall alone in freedom rather than to accompany the servants on the path to triumph.''
        The book was quickly recognized as anti-Nazi, but no steps were taken against the author, who was back in uniform, loyally serving the Third Reich.
        Ernst Junger was born March 29, 1895, in Heidelberg. His father was Ernst Georg Junger, a pharmacist and mine owner. He was sent to private schools in Upper and later Lower Saxony whose stuffiness and severe discipline sparked a desire for escape to adventure. At 18 he slipped away to France and enlisted in the Foreign Legion, which sent him to Algeria for basic training. His father was not as enamored of the military as his son and prevailed on Germany's Foreign Office to secure the boy's return. Young Ernst remained rebellious, but the outbreak of war in July 1914 provided him with a legitimate release from ''the dominion of comfort.''
        He remained in the army for five years after World War I ended. He then returned to his studies, first at the University of Leipzig in Saxony and then in Naples, concentrating on entomology, a boyhood hobby.
        The observation of nature became a passion that stayed with him for the rest of his life. He traveled to Africa, the Middle East and Asia assembling a collection of beetles and insects that would number 40,000. His admirers saw in his focus on observation a key to his spiritual core, an insistence that ''thought must proceed from observation,'' as  Fest wrote.
        He also participated in radical politics, looking forward to the rise of a new man, as he wrote in ''The Worker'' in 1932, a man of industry who would restore order to a chaotic world. For Mr. Junger, democracy was incapable of maintaining order.
        Mr. Junger spent World War II as a captain serving in headquarters, mostly in occupied Paris. There he made friends with such leading cultural figures as Jean Cocteau, Sacha Guitry, Celine, Picasso, Georges Braque and Henri de Motherlant. He wrote about his encounters with them and others in ''Gardens and Roads,'' which was published in French and German in 1942.
        In Paris he was close to the German officers who participated in the July 20, 1944, plot to kill Hitler, but he was not involved in the conspiracy. His punishment was summary dismissal from the Wehrmacht. Four months later he was informed that his son, Ernst, had been killed in action in Italy while on duty with a penal battalion after being court-martialed for ''subversive'' talk. He wrote, ''Often I have the impression that I am writing on paper that is already browning in the licks of the flames.''
        After the war, Allied forces branded Mr. Junger a militarist and barred him from publishing for four years. He did not help his cause by his lofty refusal to fill out the questionnaire used to determine whether a German had been a Nazi.
        In 1949 his war diaries were published under the title ''Radiations.'' In one passage he described hearing a report on the ''monstrous shameful actions'' of a branch of the SS during the conquest of Kiev in 1941, and noting, ''I was seized by disgust in front of the uniforms, the shoulder boards, the medals, the weapons whose brilliance I had once so loved.''
        That same year he published a utopian novel, ''Heliopolis,'' involving two rival factions, one populist ''with the instincts of the dull masses,'' and the other favoring an  enlightened absolutism carried out by an elite. Critics concluded that the novel dealt with the struggle between the Nazi Party and the Wehrmacht.
        He withdrew to a sort of self-imposed exile in 1950 to his home in a forester's house on a baronial estate near Wilflingen, where he continued to write into his 90's, producing more than 50 books. He remained able to surprise. In 1970 he published ''Approaches, Drugs and the Buzz,''  about his experiences taking LSD and mescaline, and a widely praised detective story, ''Dangerous Encounters,'' in 1985. His works were acclaimed by Heinrich Boll, the Nobel laureate in literature known for his pacifism.
        His first wife, Gretha von Jeinsen, died in 1960. Their second son, Alexander, a physician, committed suicide in 1993. Mr. Junger's younger brother, Friedrich, also a writer, died in 1977. He is survived by his second wife, Liselotte.
        Mr. Junger's renaissance began in the 1980's, when the city of Frankfurt awarded him its Goethe Prize -- after much protest -- and he joined Chancellor Kohl and President Francois Mitterrand of France at a 1984 Franco-German reconciliation ceremony at the World War I battlefield of Verdun in France. At Verdun, the setting for the worst slaughter of the war, he sought to make amends for his youthful bellicosity, saying that the ''ideology of war'' pervading Germany before and after that conflict was ''a calamitous mistake.''
      