
        Arnold Aronson, who devoted six decades to the civil rights struggle and was a planner of the 1963 March on Washington and a founder of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, died on Tuesday at his home in Wheaton, Md. He was 86.
        Although not widely known beyond those who worked with him in pursuing the cause of social justice, Mr. Aronson was an important thinker and worker in the civil rights movement. His work earned him a Presidential Medal of Freedom, which was awarded on Jan. 15. In describing him on that occasion as ''a quiet hero of our nation's civil rights movement,'' President Clinton said, ''We all are better Americans because Arnie Aronson has lived among us.''
        When he was honored last March by members of the House of Representatives on the occasion of his 86th birthday, Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat who was  chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee in the 1960's, said that had it not been for Mr. Aronson and his generation of idealists, he himself would not be in Congress. And Representative Ronald V. Dellums, Democrat of California, praised Mr. Aronson's efforts to bring together blacks and Jews.
        The leadership conference that Mr. Aronson helped to found grew out of a rally in Washington in 1950 that protested racial injustice. Among the other founders of the conference were A. Philip Randolph, president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the nation's largest black trade union, and Roy Wilkins, who would later become executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        The conference was an early proponent of affirmative action to redress wrongs done to blacks. Over the years, it became the umbrella organization for more than 185 national groups, including those representing people of color, women, labor, the disabled, religious organizations, homosexuals and other civil rights organizations. During the first 30 years of the conference's existence, Mr. Wilkins was chairman and Mr. Aronson was director.
        As early as 1941, Mr. Aronson  joined Mr. Randolph to protest bias against blacks in employment. Their  campaign was regarded as important in persuading President Franklin D. Roosevelt to issue an executive order barring discrimination in war-related industries.
        In 1961, Mr. Aronson wrote a pioneering study, ''Federal Support of Discrimination,'' which he and Mr. Wilkins presented to President John F. Kennedy. That report was part of  the basis for Title XI, which Kennedy included in the 1964 Civil Rights Act. That act prohibited discrimination in any business or institution that received Federal contracts.
        Mr. Aronson also helped to coordinate the lobbying efforts to pass the Civil Rights Acts of 1957 and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. In 1963, he was one of 10 people who participated in the planning of the March on Washington, in which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his ''I Have a Dream'' speech.
        Mr. Aronson's interest in the plight of blacks grew out of his early work as a staff member of the National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council, which sought to expand  relations between Jews and other racial and ethnic groups.
        Despite the work of Mr. Aronson and his colleagues, considerable tension developed over the years between blacks and Jews in the civil rights movement, and many blacks came to believe that they might be more effective in bettering the situation of their people if they sought social justice without the help of groups that had been founded by or with the participation of whites. Mr. Aronson encountered one significant indication of this desire for more independence in 1967, when Stokely Carmichael, who had replaced Mr. Lewis as chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, withdrew the organization from the leadership conference.
        In the years that followed, many Jews came to believe that anti-Semitism was growing among blacks. But Mr. Aronson said, ''The best way to counter Negro anti-Semitism is to help wipe out the conditions under which antiwhite and anti-Negro bias are both spawned. These are bred in frustration, denial and want.''
        Born on March 11, 1911, in Boston, Mr. Aronson earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1932 and subsequently received a master's degree in social work from the University of Chicago.
        After he retired, he created the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights Education Fund, which worked with the Advertising Council to promote racial amity. He was president of the fund at the time of his death.
        The fund has established a fellowship program in Mr. Aronson's name  to help college students who by their study and work demonstrate a serious interest in civil rights.
        Mr. Aronson is survived by his wife of 58 years, Annette; two sons, Bernard, of Takoma Park, Md., and  Simon, of Chicago, and a granddaughter.
      