
        Hector Eduardo Cabanillas, a retired Argentine Army colonel who was responsible for the military Government's effort to hide the body of Eva Peron, died on Jan. 30. He was 84 and suffered from a long illness, an army spokesman said.
        Colonel Cabanillas was in charge of military intelligence in 1956, when he received orders from the junta leader, Gen. Pedro Eugenio Aramburu, to transport the embalmed body of Mrs. Peron -- the legendary former First Lady -- to Italy. It was buried in a secret grave in Milan under a false name.
        So beloved was Mrs. Peron, who died of cancer in 1952, that the military leaders who overthrew her husband, Gen. Juan Domingo Peron, in 1955, had confiscated her body to keep opposing political forces from using it to rally the masses.
        For 15 years, even long after his retirement from the military, Colonel Cabanillas was the only person who knew the exact location of Mrs. Peron's corpse. He divulged his secret only on the orders of Gen. Alejandro A. Lanusse, who became Argentina's military leader in 1971. In exchange for Juan Peron's blessing from exile, General Lanusse agreed to hold free elections, restore Mr. Peron's citizenship and turn over Eva Peron's body to him.
        In 1973, Colonel Cabanillas returned to Italy to oversee the exhumation of Mrs. Peron's body, which today is buried in her family's tomb under three plates of steel in the Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires.
        Colonel Cabanillas was one of the main sources for the best-selling novel ''Santa Evita,'' (1996, Knopf) by the Argentine author Tomas Eloy Martinez. The book chronicles the long battle for possession of Eva Peron's remains and their journey halfway around the world and back before finally coming to rest.
        Mr. Martinez said that Colonel Cabanillas was the source for passages in his book that detail the problems the military had in hiding Mrs. Peron's corpse. According to the book, wherever the military hid the body, even in the most secure military buildings, admirers would find it and repeatedly place flowers and candles nearby. So the military eventually sent the body to Italy.
        ''He certainly knew how to keep a secret,'' Mr. Martinez said of Colonel Cabanillas, whom he described as a quiet, reserved man. ''Since he was the only one who knew where Evita's body was located, Cabanillas had a lot of power in his hands, and it's incredible that he did not use it.''
        Asked why Colonel Cabanillas came forward after remaining silent for so many years, Mr. Martinez said the retired colonel told him that it was time to reveal the truth about what happened to Eva Peron's body, especially since there was no longer a great political importance attached to it.
        Colonel Cabanillas was born in 1914 in Cordoba, Argentina, a province just north of Buenos Aires. He entered the army in 1934 and after being trained as an engineer, he moved quickly up the ranks. He was a diehard anti-Peronist, and he participated in the 1955 coup that toppled Juan Peron's second Government. After his retirement from the military in 1959, Colonel Cabanillas founded a private security firm that provided protection for politicians and business executives.
        Local newspapers said he is survived by three children -- Marita, Eduardo Rodolfo and Marcela, all of Buenos Aires.
      