
        Kenneth Frankel, a prolific stage director who won an Obie award for his production of Simon Gray's ''Quartermaine's Terms'' and staged the premiere of Mark Medoff's ''When You Comin' Back, Red Ryder?,'' died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Donna Isaacson.
        As a director on Broadway, Off Broadway and in regional theater and as an associate artistic director of the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, Mr. Frankel staged a diverse group of more than 40 plays, but he specialized in intimate productions of naturalistic contemporary drama, what he once termed ''humanist theater,'' plays about ''characters and relationships, things that happen to people,'' as opposed to ''politics, didacticism or spectacle.''
        With Mr. Gray's ''Quartermaine's Terms'' and ''The Common Pursuit,'' James Saunders's ''Bodies'' and plays by Harold Pinter and Arnold Wesker, he proved to be equally adept at staging modern English works for American audiences. One of his hallmarks was bringing together American actors, and occasionally English ones as well, into an ensemble that equaled the plays' original London casts. Many of his productions moved from Long Wharf to Broadway and Off Broadway.
        Mr. Frankel was born in Cleveland and graduated from Northwestern University. After working at the Arena Stage in Washington, he became an assistant to Tyrone Guthrie during the early years of the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.
        He made his first breakthrough as director with his taut production of ''Red Ryder'' in 1973 at the Circle Repertory Company. Kevin Conway starred in the Medoff play as a swaggering con man who awakens a sleepy New Mexico diner. Mr. Frankel later directed Mr. Medoff's ''Hands of Its Enemy'' at the Manhattan Theater Club.
        For six years, he served as artistic director of the Dallas Shakespeare Festival. In the late 1970's, he staged J. M. Barrie's ''What Every Woman Knows'' and Stewart Parker's ''Spokesong'' at Long Wharf. Later as an associate director there, he did as many as four plays a year, moving from J. B. Priestley's ''When We Are Married'' (starring Donal Donnelly) to ''The Heiress'' (with Richard Kiley), while also doing musicals (''Pal Joey'') and new plays (Leonora Thuna's ''Fugue'').
        His 1983 production of ''Quartermaine's Terms'' (with Remak Ramsay, Caroline Lagervelt and Kelsey Grammer) was a long-running Off Broadway success. In 1984, he directed a revival of Mr. Pinter's ''Old Times'' with Anthony Hopkins, Jane Alexander and Marsha Mason, and in 1986, ''The Common Pursuit,'' with Nathan Lane.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their daughter, Hanna, of Los Angeles, and by his father, Elmer, his brothers, Douglas and Thomas, and his sister, Alice Haas, all of Cleveland.
        In recent years, Mr. Frankel made the transition from stage to television, directing episodes of ''The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd'' and ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' But he remained devoted to regional and institutional theater.
        ''That's my home, and that's my conscious choice,'' he said about his years at Long Wharf. ''Rather than go with the winds of fate as a freelance director, I want to be able to look back on my life and say, 'This is where the work was done.' ''
      