
        Justice Lewis R. Friedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who was entrusted with the most complex commercial cases on the docket, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after suffering a heart attack. He was 56 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        He was stricken while exercising in the gym of his apartment building, said his law clerk, Marilyn Dershowitz.
        In his 13 years on the bench, Justice Friedman heard the full range of civil cases, from tenant complaints to divorces to medical malpractice and torts. He became a housing judge in January 1985, an acting Supreme Court justice in 1988 and a justice five years ago.
        He was assigned to the court's Commercial Division and was responsible for disposing of about 700 difficult cases in that often arcane and litigious sector.
        Justice Friedman, who was born in Brooklyn, graduated from New York University's Washington Square College in 1963 and, cum laude, from N.Y.U. School of Law in 1966. That year he became an assistant district attorney for New York County, and worked his way up to chief of the appeals bureau.
        Justice Friedman had gone into private practice as a partner in the firm of Litman, Friedman, Kaufman & Asche. But in 1976 he served as a special assistant state attorney general, a part-time assignment with the Special Attica Prosecutor.
        At the time, the prosecutor, Alfred J. Scotti, was winding up his work on indictments brought against inmates and state police and prison officers stemming from the 1971 uprising in which 43 prisoners and guards died.
        He was active in the state and city bar associations and many of its committees. He also worked in organizations dealing with Jewish migration. At his death he was a vice president and director of HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, and a director of NYANA, the New York Association for New Americans, which resettles Jews in the region.
        He served as a director of the American Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, a trustee of Bramson O.R.T. Technical Institute in Forest Hills, Queens, and a member of the executive committee of World O.R.T. Union. He also served on committees of the UJA-Federation of New York.
        Justice Friedman is survived by his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman; their daughter, Karen Friedman of Manhattan, an assistant district attorney in Queens; his mother, Dr. Sylvia Friedman, also of Manhattan, and a sister, Dr. Diane Friedman of Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
      