
        Lord Granville of Eye, the oldest member of the British Parliament, died in a London nursing home on Saturday, two days after making a rare appearance in the House of Lords to celebrate his 100th birthday.
        His life as a soldier, politician, businessman and author of spy thrillers remained storied to its end. It was only this year that he discovered that he had been born on Feb. 12, 1898, and not the same date a year later, as he had always believed and as all the parliamentary and military documents had recorded.
        It was an inquiry from Buckingham Palace to his wife asking about his eligibility for a centenary telegram from the Queen that cleared up the lifelong confusion over his birth. Lady Granville called the Register Office in Reading, where he was born, and confirmed his age.
        Thus on Feb. 12 he was toasted by the leaders of the Lords in their ornate chamber and later in the Peers' Tearoom as he sat in a wheelchair by his wife of 55 years, Elizabeth, his only child, Linda, her husband, Emmanuel Gounalakis, and an old friend, Chris Stevens of the Royal British Legion.
        ''Rather a nice way to go out,'' Mr. Stevens commented on Monday.
        Edgar Louis Granville, as he was then called, was taken as a teen-ager to Melbourne, where in 1915, during World War I, he decided to enlist in the Australian Light Horse Regiment rather than return home. The only horse he had ever ridden was one with a sack on its back in a field near his home in Berkshire.
        ''The riding test was hell's bells,'' he recalled years later of his induction drill. ''You were put on a horse and had to clear four jumps in a row. At each one a sergeant would crack a whip to frighten the horse. I still do not know how I got over the jumps, but I lost my hat in the process. I rode back to pick it up, and the sergeant said, 'O.K., son, you're in.' ''
        He was the youngest and smallest of the Light Horsemen, and when they would sing ''And a Little Child Shall Lead Them'' on practice marches he would go out in front.
        He soon found himself in one of the  deadliest battles of the war, the Allied defeat at Gallipoli in Turkey, where he was wounded. But he recovered enough to take part in the column of cavalry that had success in Beersheba.
        ''I was not surprised the Turks and their German friends gave up,'' he said of that victory. ''Eight hundred horses galloping in line is some sight, particularly if they are coming at you.''
        He was eventually sent back to Cairo suffering from his earlier wound and fever, dysentery and jaundice. He recovered, joined British forces in Europe and was wounded twice more.
        He entered the House of Commons in 1929 as a Liberal member representing the Suffolk community of Eye, and with the formation of a coalition National Government two years later became a junior minister in the Home and Foreign Offices.
        He remained in the Commons until a defeat by a Conservative in 1951, when he switched to the Labor Party and ran twice unsuccessfully to regain his seat. During his years in the House he had become an engineering executive and often spoke on matters affecting small businesses.
        He was created Baron Granville of Eye, a life peer, by Prime Minister Harold Wilson in 1967. Remembering his Australian cavalry service, he chose for the field of his coat of arms a bay horse and a kangaroo.
        In the 1970's he wrote two international political thrillers, ''The Domino Plan'' and ''The Peking Pigeon.''  The second book featured a woman who headed Chinese intelligence. She  tried to infiltrate the British Government by planting a bug behind Harold Wilson's portrait of William Gladstone in 10 Downing Street.
        Into his 80's, he remained a four-day-a-week participant in Lords debates and eventually changed his party identification again, declaring himself an independent out of respect for Margaret Thatcher, the Conservative Prime Minister, whom he called the ''finest'' leader of the country since Winston Churchill.
        The mantle of oldest peer now falls to Lord Denning, who turned 99 on Jan. 23. Until last month he thought that he already held the title.
      