
        Abraham A. Ribicoff, the powerful and popular Governor of Connecticut, Congressman and United States Senator who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under John F. Kennedy, the President he helped elect, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in the Bronx. He was 87 and had homes in Manhattan and Cornwall Bridge, Conn.
        Mr. Ribicoff, who spent nearly half a century in public service before retiring in 1981, had Alzheimer's disease and had been at the Riverdale home for several weeks. His wife, Lois, who is known as Casey, said that the cause of death was heart failure. Funeral services are scheduled for Wednesday at 11 A.M. at Temple Emanu-El on Fifth Avenue at 65th Street in Manhattan.
        Mr. Ribicoff, who was one of the best vote getters in Connecticut history, had been a close Kennedy friend and political ally since 1948, when both were young Congressmen from neighboring New England states. Early on, he visualized Kennedy as a formidable national figure and worked hard to see that he achieved the Presidency. He nominated Kennedy for Vice President in 1956, he was the convention floor manager for his successful race for the Presidential nomination in 1960, and he was the first man named to the Kennedy Cabinet.
        Mr. Ribicoff was among the first to encourage Kennedy to seek the Vice Presidency as Adlai E. Stevenson's running mate in the Presidential election of 1956. Although Kennedy backers had prepared material showing how a Roman Catholic on the ticket could help Mr. Stevenson's chances against the incumbent Republican President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, many Democratic leaders initially resisted their efforts. Those leaders, many of them Catholics themselves, were mindful of the discrimination that had met the Presidential aspirations of Gov. Alfred E. Smith of New York in 1928, when he became the first Catholic to win the Democratic nomination for President. He lost to Herbert Hoover, with many traditionally Democratic voters switching parties because of Smith's religion.
        Kennedy's allies in the party thought he might make an attractive national candidate, but many felt that he should not even try. Some of them made their objections known at a meeting in a Chicago hotel room at which party leaders were asked to come up with a list of running mates for Mr. Stevenson.
        ''I listened to the leading Irish Catholic politicians object to Kennedy,'' Mr. Ribicoff told The New York Times in 1993. ''They did not think the nation was ready for a Catholic, they said. Speaking last, I said, 'I never thought I'd see the day when a man of the Jewish faith had to plead before a group of Irish Catholics about allowing another Irish Catholic to be nominated for the position.' ''
        Kennedy eventually lost the nomination in an open convention in Chicago to Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee, but his strong showing propelled him into the 1960 Presidential race.
        After the election in 1960, Mr. Ribicoff said in his 1993 interview, President Kennedy asked him if he would like to be Attorney General. Mr. Ribicoff said he declined and suggested that Mr. Kennedy name his own brother, Robert, to the post. Mr. Kennedy was taken aback and, according to Mr. Ribicoff, said, ''I can't name my own brother.'' But Mr. Ribicoff said to the President: ''The person closest to you is Bobby; you're from the same womb. In every crisis, you automatically turn to Bobby.''
        A Cabinet Member For 16 Months
        So Robert Kennedy became Attorney General and Mr. Ribicoff accepted the President's offer to become Secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. In doing so, Mr. Ribicoff had to resign as Governor of Connecticut, the only decision he said he later regretted. Sixteen months later, he returned to Connecticut and ran for the Senate in 1962, defeating the Republican candidate, Representative Horace Seely-BrownJr. He remained a liberal stalwart in the chamber for 18 years.
        In 1968, Mr. Ribicoff made a memorable appearance at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, which was then being buffeted by demonstrations against America's continued involvement in the war in Vietnam. Mr. Ribicoff's choice for President that year was Robert F. Kennedy, but after Mr. Kennedy's assassination, he supported Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, who was to lose the party's nomination to Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey.
        Mr. Ribicoff had watched television coverage of the Chicago police beating antiwar demonstrators with clubs and spraying them with tear gas. When it came his turn to nominate Senator McGovern, Mr. Ribicoff took the podium, looked directly at Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago, who was seated in front of him with the host Illinois delegation, and said, ''With George McGovern as President of the United States, we wouldn't have these Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago. With George McGovern, we wouldn't have a National Guard.''
        Mr. Daley and Mr. Ribicoff had never been enemies, but since Mr. Ribicoff was regarded as a Democratic regular, the rebuke stung the Mayor, who gestured and shouted at Mr. Ribicoff. It was one of the first times in the television age that two major political figures confronted each other in such stark terms.
        Mayor Daley and his supporters cupped their mouths and shouted an obscenity at Senator Ribicoff that few television viewers had trouble lip-reading.
        ''How hard it is,'' Mr. Ribicoff scolded back, ''to accept the truth when we know the problems facing our nation.''
        The Illinois delegation demanded that Mr. Ribicoff ''Get down! Get down!'' A storm of boos and cheers rose from the hall.
        In 1972, Mr. Ribicoff returned to the podium of a Democratic convention, this one in Miami Beach, to again nominate Mr. McGovern for President. The South Dakotan was nominated, but lost in a landslide to Richard M. Nixon.
        He Made His State Safest for Driving
        In his time Mr. Ribicoff's name was synonymous with highway safety. When he was Governor of Connecticut from 1955 to 1961, he understood the importance of traffic safety long before most other officials in the nation realized that in rapidly urbanizing states near large metropolitan areas, traffic would soon reach lethal volume and speed.
        Mr. Ribicoff enforced tough laws that enabled Connecticut by the mid-1950's to have earned the reputation of the state with the safest highways in the nation. Speeders and drunken drivers were not tolerated and frequently lost their licenses. Police officers in unmarked cars were encouraged to issue tickets to violators so that the word went out on the East Coast that Connecticut was one place where posted speed limits should not be exceeded. A decade later, when Mr. Ribicoff was a United States Senator, he was consistent in voicing his concern about highway safety.
        Mr. Ribicoff was darkly handsome, smooth and self-confident. He once confessed that he had a need to reach out to all sides in a dispute, and to do it, he said, he relied on cliches when he spoke. His favorite phrase at one time in the early 1960's was ''the integrity of compromise,'' and he explained that ''cliches are cliches because men in all generations have recognized the wisdom they contain.''
        Abraham Alexander Ribicoff was born on April 9, 1910, in a tenement on Star Street in New Britain, Conn. His parents, Samuel and Rose Sable Ribicoff, were Polish Jews. ''My father was a factory worker and we were really poor,'' Mr. Ribicoff once recalled. ''But everything I earned peddling papers and working in stores, he made me put aside for education.''
        He went to Smalley Elementary School in New Britain, ran errands to make small change and, when time permitted, played sandlot baseball. Later he played tackle for the New Britain High School football team, and during vacations he worked on a road construction gang. In his first year out of high school, he worked in a New Britain factory to set aside more money for his first year at New York University.
        He completed a year at N.Y.U., but in 1929, at age 19, he accepted an offer from the factory, the G. E. Prentice Company, to take over its Chicago office. He moved to Chicago, took afternoon classes at the University of Chicago Law School (in those days some law schools accepted students without baccalaureate degrees) and did very well, becoming editor of the university's Law Review.
        In May 1933, he returned to Connecticut to work in a Hartford law office and was offered a job with the Tennessee Valley Authority. But he declined, saying he wanted to be a small-town lawyer. For a while he was, with an office in Kensington.
        Early Recognition As a Political Comer
        He soon became interested in politics, and in November 1938 he was elected for the first of two terms in the Connecticut General Assembly. Political reporters characterized him in a vote as the state's most promising freshman legislator and later as its most able one. In 1941, he became a judge in the Hartford Police Court and that year was elected chairman of the Connecticut Assembly of Municipal Court Judges.
        During the rest of the 1940's, he served on various state committees and on the charter revision commission that brought a city council and city manager form of government to Hartford. In 1947 and '48, he served as a hearing examiner under the Connecticut Fair Employment Practices Act, and in November 1948 was elected to Congress from the First District, not only defeating a Republican incumbent but also attracting so many votes that he was credited with sweeping Chester Bowles into the Governor's mansion. Two years later, he was re-elected by an even larger margin.
        He generally supported the policies of the Truman Administration, but despite Truman's veto, he favored the Communist Control Bill, said to be an ''anti-subversive'' measure. He supported continuation of the Marshall Plan.
        In 1952, Mr. Ribicoff ran a strong but unsuccessful race against Representative Prescott S. Bush, the father of former President George Bush, to fill the unexpired Senate term of Brien McMahon, who had died in  July.
        Two years later he was elected Governor, defeating John Davis Lodge, the patrician Republican incumbent. He capped his campaign by telling an Italian-American audience that ''nowhere except in the Democratic Party could a boy named Abe Ribicoff be nominated for governor of this state.''
        He reminded voters that ''the American Dream'' would be fulfilled if a child of immigrants were elected. He was the only Democrat elected on the state ticket that year and the first Jew elected Governor.
        He served in the Senate for three terms, retaining the Democratic party base and winning support from upper-middle-class voters in Fairfield and Litchfield Counties. During his tenure, he supported President Lyndon B. Johnson's continuation of the war in Vietnam, but finally broke with Johnson late in the decade.
        A Staunch Advocate Of School Integration
        Mr. Ribicoff was steadfast in his advocacy of integration of urban and suburban schools systems. He was equally firm in his belief -- for which some American Jews criticized him -- that fighter planes should be sold to Saudi Arabia and Egypt as well as to Israel.
        He fought for the reform of county government, which he found antiquated and wasteful, and he opposed price supports for farm products. At the request of some tobacco growers in Connecticut he once dutifully introduced legislation seeking Federal subsidies for them, then fought the measure in Congress. He also fought hard for civil service reform.
        In 1981, when he was 71 years old, Mr. Ribicoff announced that he would not be a candidate for a fourth term in the Senate. ''There is a time to stay and a time to go,'' he said. He supported the candidacy of Christopher J. Dodd, who replaced him the next year. When he withdrew from politics, the building in Hartford where he worked as a young lawyer and where he maintained offices while in the Senate was renamed the Abraham A. Ribicoff Federal Building U.S. Courthouse.
        He retained his interest in politics and remained active in the law as special counsel to Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, a large New York law firm. In 1993, he was described in an article in The New York Times as being the firm's resident elder statesman and wise man. But he remained out of the political limelight. He explained that he had no use for politicians who didn't know when their day was up. ''Nothing is as sad as seeing a person who used to have power have none,'' he told one reporter.
        ''You forget that you don't have a lock on anything forever,'' he added. ''I loved every day I was in politics. But I got out at the right time. I never miss it.''
        Late in his life, Mr. Ribicoff was asked why he had never written his autobiography. ''You should not do an autobiography if you want to tell the truth,'' he replied. ''There are a lot of things I know about people. If I can't say something good about a person, I don't want to say anything. And since I don't want to say anything bad, I won't write a book.''
        In his retirement, Mr. Ribicoff said frequently that he deplored the ''meanness'' he came to see in politics. ''Politics,'' he said, ''is not what it used to be.''
        Elegant of Dress, Perceptive of Talent
        Into his 80's he was still a model of sartorial elegance, able to fit into the Saville Row suits he had bought 25 years earlier. He also took great pride in his eye for judicial talent.
        He enjoyed a father-son relationship with Chief Judge Jon O. Newman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, whose career he helped advance. He also aided Chief Judge Jose A. Cabranes of the Federal District Court in Connecticut, making him the first Puerto Rican Federal judge in the continental United States. And he had a big hand in helping Stephen G. Breyer become a Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
        In late 1980, in the waning days of the Carter Administration and of Mr. Ribicoff's own political career, the nomination of Mr. Breyer, then a professor at Harvard Law School, to the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in Boston was in deep trouble. A group of Senate Democrats, annoyed that Mr. Breyer had won approval from the Senate Judiciary Committee while their own choices languished, tried to block his nomination.
        At the urging of a law colleague, Mr. Ribicoff swung into action. He called Mr. Breyer, whom he had never met, and found him to his liking. Then he persuaded former Senate colleagues like Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, John Glenn of Ohio and Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island to see to it that Mr. Breyer became a Federal judge.
        Mr. Ribicoff's first wife, the former Ruth Siegel, died after 40 years of marriage. In addition to his second wife, the former Lois Mell Mathes, whom he married in 1972. he is survived by the children of his first marriage, Peter, of Manhattan, and Jane Bishop of Del Mar, Calif.; a stepson, Peter Mathes of Salt Lake City, and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Ribicoff's struggle with Alzheimer's disease was disclosed in August 1997, when his wife told The Los Angeles Times that she and Nancy Reagan ''speak the same language.'' She said that she conversed regularly with Mrs. Reagan, who announced in 1994 that the former President had Alzheimer's disease.
        ''You can't begin to understand what living with this is like unless you do live with it, day in and day out.'' Mrs. Ribicoff said. ''I don't know what I would do without Nancy.''
      