
        Albert Lippert, a once pudgy garment executive who stumbled on a diet program that made him both svelte and rich, died on Saturday during a business trip to South Africa. He was 72 and a founder of Weight Watchers.
        Friends said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, which he suffered in his hotel room in Johannesburg  after he had played 18 holes of golf.
        In 1963, Mr. Lippert had the idea for what would become Weight Watchers International. Until then, it would have been hard to distinguish him from thousands of other Brooklyn-born veterans who found niches in the garment business and moved to the Long Island suburbs in the years after World War II.
        After serving with the Army in Europe, Mr. Lippert, following a familiar pattern, earned a degree in business administration from City College and did graduate work at Baruch College. He became a buyer of women's coats and suits for a retail chain and settled in Baldwin Harbor, N.Y., with his wife, Felice, and their two sons.
        Their life included regular Friday gatherings with a few close friends for such activities as hiring an instructor to teach then new dance steps.
        For all the comforts of their life, by 1963 the Lipperts realized they had a problem. Since their marriage a decade earlier, Mr. Lippert, who was 6  feet, had seen his waistline expand and his weight balloon to 216 pounds, while his once willowy wife had gone from size 12 to a 16 or 18.
        Mrs. Lippert heard about a Long Island housewife, Jean Nidetch, who was offering to teach a diet program that had helped her lose a lot of weight and decided to make Mrs. Nidetch the focus of one of the Friday gatherings.
        Mrs. Nidetch's pep talk and the diet sheet she left behind based on a nutritionally balanced regimen recommended by a New York City obesity clinic worked wonders. When she came back the next Friday, Mr. Lippert had lost seven pounds, his wife had lost four pounds, and the couple, who eventually lost more than 100 pounds between them, were on the verge of an entrepreneurial breakthrough.
        Sitting around the Lipperts' kitchen table in the weeks ahead, Mr. Lippert, whose marketing instincts had been fired by the program's prospects, began peppering Mrs. Nidetch and her husband with suggestions, helping them to come up with the term Weight Watchers and suggesting that they turn what had been little more than a hobby into a full-fledged business.
        Rather than Mrs. Nidetch's going to her clients, the clients would come to her.
        The Nidetchs agreed, and the couples became partners.
        To test his idea, Mr. Lippert rented a room over a movie theater in Little Neck, Queens, and after deciding to charge the same as the price of a movie downstairs, $2, attracted 22 people the first night. The next week 66 showed up, and Mr. Lippert rented a second room, in Baldwin, N.Y.
        Within a year, the business had achieved such local success that Mr. Lippert began selling Weight Watchers franchises.
        In a process he once likened to giving away razors to sell razor blades, he sold the franchises for a relatively low figure but required the franchise holders to pay the company 10 percent of their gross. Within a decade or so, franchises that sold for as little as $2,000 were returning $100,000 a year.
        The company also began selling cookbooks and established the familiar line of Weight Watchers frozen foods.
        With Mrs. Nidetch operating as an evangelical saleswoman and Mr. Lippert running the business, the company achieved startling success.
        Weight Watchers, which first sold stock to the public in 1968, was so successful that in 1978 it was sold to the H. J. Heinz Company for $72 million. The Lipperts received about $15 million of that, and Mr. Lippert remained as chief executive of Weight Watchers until 1981. He continued as a member of the Heinz board and as a Weight Watchers consultant for the rest of his life.
        The Lipperts enjoyed their wealth, building a house in Sands Point, N.Y., and acquiring other residences in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. They also donated generously to charity.
        Mr. Lippert's business zeal did not dim. Two years ago, when Heinz decided to re-establish business ties with South Africa, Mr. Lippert acquired the Weight Watchers franchise for the country, embarking on the venture with his usual enthusiasm.
        His devotion to Weight Watchers was understandable: he managed to remain rail thin.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Lippert is survived by his sons, Keith, of Manhattan, and Randy, of Los Angeles, and two granddaughters.
      