
        John L. Bissell, an American businessman who ran a handloomed-textile export business in India for more than 30 years, died yesterday in New Delhi. He was 66 and lived in New Delhi. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his cousin, Hector Prud'homme.
        Mr. Bissell was born in Hartford and educated at the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass., and at Yale. His love for India began as a child, listening to tales his father told of his time in India during World War II.
        After college, Mr. Bissell worked at Macy's, and began to like the look and feel of hand-woven fabrics.
        Those two interests merged in 1958, when he was given a two-year grant from the Ford Foundation to instruct Indian villagers in making goods for export. Once his grant expired, Mr. Bissell decided to remain.
        He founded a business, Fabindia Ltd., that bought locally produced items like dhurrie rugs and exported them.
        ''The greatest thing that happened to our business was the move in Europe and America a few years back to the natural look -- natural textures, natural fibers -- and away from things like polyester and nylon,'' he said in a 1977 interview.
        Mr. Bissell married Bimla Nanda, who served as social secretary for Chester A. Bowles and John Kenneth Galbraith when they were United States Ambassadors to India.
        Mr. Bissell's business flourished despite his widely known family connection to Richard M. Bissell Jr., the legendary Central Intelligence Agency operative who was his uncle.
        ''I once asked him if it was ever a problem having his name and being associated with one of the great spymasters of the modern era,'' Steven R. Weisman, a former correspondent for The New York Times in New Delhi, said yesterday.
        ''He said he was acutely aware of it,'' Mr. Weisman said, ''and that early in his life in India his uncle asked him casually if he would consider doing anything. He said he was enraged at even being asked, that it would ruin his life if it were known his uncle had asked him.''
        Besides his wife, Mr. Bissell is survived by a son, William, who now runs Fabindia, and a daughter, Monsoon, both of New Delhi.
      