
        Darcy O'Brien, who turned a Hollywood childhood into award-winning fiction, taught literature at two universities and became the best-selling author of several ''true-crime'' books, died on Monday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 59.
        The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for his publisher said.
        Mr. O'Brien had won an Edgar Allen Poe Award for nonfiction last year for ''Power to Hurt,'' about a small-town judge in Tennessee accused of using his power to rape, assault and sexually blackmail several women in his community.
        He had just completed work on ''The Hidden Pope,'' a book about the little-known friendship between Pope John Paul II and a Jewish schoolmate in Poland that helped bring about Vatican recognition of Israel in 1994.
        Mr. O'Brien was also chosen to be one of three jurors for this year's Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
        He was born in Los Angeles in 1939, the son of George O'Brien, a veteran cowboy actor who appeared in numerous John Ford films in the 1930's, and Marguerite Churchill, a Broadway and film actress who was a co-star in John Wayne's starring debut, ''The Big Trail,'' in 1930.
        Mr. O'Brien's childhood in Hollywood during its golden age, surrounded by Ford, Wayne, Charles Laughton, Harpo Marx and other luminaries, was fictionalized in his first novel, ''A Way of Life, Like Any Other.'' For it, he won P.E.N.'s Ernest Hemingway Award for the best first novel of 1978.
        Mr. O'Brien also wrote ''Margaret in Hollywood,'' a 1991 novel about a fading silent screen actress.
        He attended Princeton University, was a Fulbright scholar at Cambridge University and earned his master's degree and doctorate at the University of California at Berkeley. In 1965, he became a professor of English at Pomona College in Claremont, California, moving in 1978 to the University of Tulsa, where he taught until 1995.
        Mr. O'Brien turned to true-crime writing in 1981, when he learned that his roommate at Princeton, Ronald M. George, now chief justice of the California State Supreme Court, was to be the judge in the so-called Hillside Strangler trial in Los Angeles.
        Mr. O'Brien published ''Two of a Kind: The Hillside Stranglers'' in 1985, and it was adapted into a television miniseries starring Richard Crenna.
        This was followed by ''Murder in Little Egypt,'' a 1989 book about a small-town Illinois doctor whose violent and eventually murderous behavior was overlooked by his neighbors for years. The book was on The New York Times paperback best-seller list for several weeks in 1990.
        In 1993, ''A Dark and Bloody Ground,'' the story of a particularly gruesome murder in Kentucky, became a brief cause celebre when a judge ruled to block its release after relatives of the victim complained about its bloody cover art. A higher court judge overturned the ruling.
        Mr. O'Brien is survived by his mother; his wife, Suzanne; a daughter, Molly O'Brien of Los Angeles; a stepson, Brent Beesley of Austin, Tex., and a sister, Orin O'Brien of Manhattan.
      