
        Daniel J. Crowley, an anthropologist who loved parties so much that he devoted his life to attending carnivals, festivals and other folk celebrations in every corner of the globe, died on Feb. 24 while in Oruro, Bolivia, for a Mardi Gras carnival.
        He was 76 and had been professor of anthropology and art history at the University of California at Davis.
        For someone who used a wheelchair, Dr. Crowley got around. A man who circled the globe nine times in various directions, he claimed to have visited 295 of the 311 political and geographic entities listed by Travelers' Century Club, including every state in the union and every nation except Iraq, generally finding a party at each stop.
        The trips earned him recognition in the Guinness Book of World Records as ''the most traveled disabled person,'' but the quest for records was not his motivating force.
        ''Overcompensation,'' Dr. Crowley once explained. ''I fly everywhere because I can't walk.''
        For Dr. Crowley, a Northwestern University graduate who was paralyzed after contracting polio in the Navy in World War II, and who used the G.I. Bill to get a master's degree in art history from Bradley University and a doctorate in anthropology from Northwestern, there was another reason: he was born in Peoria, Ill.
        As the product of what he considered a painfully conventional family in a drab, hidebound community, he defined his entire career as escape from Peoria and cheerfully rubbed it in every December with what his family called his ''notorious Christmas letter.''
        Sent to hundreds of friends, including those who had derided his boyhood dreams of life beyond Peoria, the letter detailed his previous year of travel stop by exotic stop with frequent references to his exotic wife, Pearl Ramcharan, a sixth-generation Trinidadian of pure Indian extraction.
        By the time he joined the Davis faculty in 1960, Dr. Crowley had fathered a son in London and a daughter in Tanzania and spent a year living in the Belgian Congo, now the Democratic Republic of Congo, while making frequent side trips throughout Africa.
        As a scholar, his specialty was the arts and culture of Africa and African outposts in the New World, with an emphasis on Mardi Gras and other eruptions of annual excess in the Caribbean and South America.
        Dr. Crowley, who helped develop the field of African studies and won numerous honors for his work, had only limited use of his arms. He typed with one finger in turning out more than 350 papers and several books, including ''Creativity in Bahamian Folklore.'' But his real forte was the field trip.
        Once he got to the Davis campus he rarely stayed put. Over the years he wangled temporary teaching assignments at a dozen other colleges, including posts in Trinidad, Australia and India, and was forever flying off to join one folk celebration or another, in the interest of scholarship, of course.
        Needing someone to push him around, Dr. Crowley, who wore out more than a dozen wheelchairs supplied by the Veterans Administration, hit upon an ingenious scheme to attract assistants. For more than 20 years, he ran a program for the University of California at Berkeley under University Research Expedition Projects, or high-spirited trips to blowouts around the world.
        It was a tribute to his dedication that he once attended carnival in Iceland. The special beer helped, but the scholar who spent much of his time surrounded by writhing naked and near naked bodies in warmer climes had trouble relating to revelers in parkas.
        For all his disability, Dr. Crowley managed to take notes in a laborious scrawl and never had trouble lifting a glass. A man who relished good food and good drink of virtually every extant cuisine, he was forever inventing exotic new cocktails.
        And for all his travels, his Davis neighbors knew when he was home: there would be a party at the Crowley house.
        Because of his disability, Dr. Crowley preferred a second-floor window or balcony at festival time, partly because of his experiences at ground level revelry.
        ''When they come at you in Rio de Janierio after snorting amyl nitrite and drinking quantities of liquor,'' he once said, ''you'd better get out of the way. They have left footprints on my forehead.''
        Dr. Crowley once predicted that his obituary would say, ''He died as he lived: crushed by 50,000 Brazilians doing the samba.'' Alas. His family said he had died peacefully of a heart attack in his sleep in a hotel room on Mardi Gras morning.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Peter, of Martinez, Calif.; two daughters, Eve, of Rome and Magdalene, of Berkeley; a sister, Patricia Capitelli of Peoria, and two grandchildren.
      