
        Dr. Edward James Beattie, a leading chest surgeon, lung cancer specialist and medical educator who was long affiliated with Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Beth Israel Medical Center, died last Friday at Beth Israel. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was malignant melanoma, a cancer of the skin, his family said.
        Dr. Beattie was associated with Memorial Hospital, now part of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, from 1965 until he retired in 1983 as chief medical officer, a position he had held since 1966.
        He pioneered a multidisciplinary approach to cancer treatment, bringing surgeons, medical oncologists and radiation oncologists together for patient care.
        Dr. Beattie, who helped to develop a clinical system for delineating the stages of lung cancer, operated on many luminaries, including the last Shah of Iran and a president of India, Neelam Sanjiva Reddy, and former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey.
        In 1983, Dr. Beattie moved to the University of Miami to set up its cancer center.
        Two years later, he returned to New York to join the staff at Beth Israel.
        He became chief of thoracic surgery and founding director of its David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center, one of the first in the country to deal exclusively with lung cancer. He directed it until 1995, when he took over as medical director of the Beth Israel Cancer Center.
        Edward Beattie was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Princeton College in 1939. He received his M.D. in 1943 from Harvard Medical School.
        He trained at what is now Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and the University of London and joined the faculty of George Washington University in 1947.
        Among the positions he held in New York just before going to Memorial Hospital were those of director of clinical research and chief of the department of surgery at Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospital.
        Dr. Beattie is survived by his wife of 20 years, Nicole; a son, Bruce S., of San Diego; a brother, James, of Westerly, R.I., and a grandson.
      