
        Harry Stanley, a vaudevillian turned lecturer who was such a subtle master of philolillogical orotundity and frammatical linguistation that when he got wound up it took a while before it became apparent that nobody had the foggiest idea what he was talking about, died on Feb. 15 at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 100 and had been a leading exponent of double talk for the better part of a century.
        By the time he hit the lecture circuit full time in 1945, Mr. Stanley had spent a quarter of a century in vaudeville, where double talk formed only an occasional part of his comedy act.
        Over the next 38 years he was in demand to provide a measure of humor at otherwise dull meetings.
        Unlike Prof. Irwin Corey, the world's foremost undifferentiated expert, whose deranged appearance and speech-starting ''However, . . . ,'' inevitably signal the double talk to come, Professor Stanley, as he was known, worked straight, or at least started that way.
        At countless conventions, panel discussions, business or professional gatherings he would appear with his signature pince-nez and conservative dress, looking very much like the expert in whatever relevant arcane field he would be introduced as being distinguished in.
        After a bland but more or less intelligible opening in which he would use standard English without quite saying anything concrete, Professor Stanley would begin slipping in vaguely Latin-sounding words so naturally phrased and so convincingly delivered that in the context of his remarks they would strike his audience as plausible, if not immediately recognizable, words.
        Once, for example, having been introduced as a Presidential adviser on foreign affairs, he made a series of vague statesmanlike generalities evoking the specter of war, then added: ''But I for one feel that all the basic and sadum tortumise, all the professional getesimus and tortum kimafly will precipitously aggregate so that peace shall reign. I want to make that perfectly clear.''
        Indeed. As he gradually added more and more such gibberish until his speech was almost all gobbeldygook, members of the audience would begin to tumble to his game and Mr. Stanley would give it -- and his vaudeville background -- away:  ''For those of you who might have missed my introduction, I'm Professor Harry Stanley, Harvard '39, Rutgers nothing.''
        A native of Warsaw who came to the United States as a 6-year-old in 1903, Mr. Stanley grew up on the Lower East Side and in central Harlem, fertile breeding grounds for generations of entertainers. He got his start when a cantor at his synagogue noticed his nice alto voice and steered him into juvenile productions.
        Graduating to the legitimate theater, he played a World War I doughboy in a George Abbott production of ''Broken Wing,'' and later appeared in ''La La Lucille,'' George Gershwin's first full Broadway show, in 1919.
        The next year he shifted to vaudeville, teaming up with the first of a succession of beautiful blonde showgirls with whom he performed a series of acts he once likened to Burns & Allen routines, with Mr. Stanley taking the Gracie Allen part.
        He enjoyed a measure of success, and when he was 39 he married a 20-year-old Ziegfield showgirl. He and his wife, Edith, had no children but confounded skeptics by remaining married until her death 52 years later.
        Double talk was always a fixture of vaudeville, and Mr. Stanley recalled honing his skills when he, George Burns, Milton Berle and George Jessel would use it to befuddle waiters at the old Wolpin's restaurant on West 47th Street, near the Palace Theater.
        While Berle and others moved to television once vaudeville faded in World War II, Mr. Stanley, who thought television would never catch on, didn't even try.
        ''I could have reached the heights that Berle did,'' he said decades later, acknowledging some regrets, which were aggravated by a seven-decade old grudge against Berle for having stolen one of his showgirl partners.
        For all that, Mr. Stanley did well with his double talk, and once he retired to the Actor's Fund home in 1983 at the age of 86 he performed virtually full time.
        Until a few years ago he accepted gigs near the home, but his main audiences were the home's staff, residents and visitors. A great favorite for his high spirits and quick wit, Mr. Stanley, who was cracking jokes until a few days before his death, was always on the lookout for new staff members or residents, who had sharply different reactions to his framastistical ramblings.
        The staff members would decide that the poor old soul had lost his mind, while new elderly residents would be convinced they were losing theirs.
      