
        Jack Micheline, a Beat poet who wrote about the downtrodden using the rhythms and sounds of street speech, died on Friday on a commuter train leaving San Francisco. He was 68 and, friends said, lived near poverty in a San Francisco hotel.
        He had suffered from diabetes for years and apparently died of a heart attack, said a friend, the writer Gerald Nicosia.
        Mr. Micheline spent his early life in New York City, where he was friends with other Beat writers, including Jack Kerouac, Gregory Corso and Bob Kaufman, writing about poor workers and artists, petty criminals, prostitutes and addicts.
        Using words as a kind of free and syncopated sound of jazz (''Father Ago don't use the whip/I love ya I'm buying tonight''), he called himself one of the last American troubadours.
        In 1994, after a conference on the Beat Generation at New York University, he appeared on the television show ''Late Night With Conan O'Brien'' and read poetry to the accompaniment of a jazz trumpet.
        Over 40 years, Mr. Micheline wrote 20 books, and his poems appeared in the major Beat anthologies, including Ann Charter's 1992 ''Beat Portable Reader.'' In the introduction to Mr. Micheline's first book, ''River of Red Wine'' (1958),  Kerouac said he had ''the swinging free style I like and his sweet lines revive the poetry of open hope in America.'' The book was favorably reviewed in Esquire by Dorothy Parker, and he found himself among the newly fashionable literati.
        In the late 1950's he drifted westward across America, trying, as Mr. Nicosia put it, to ''discover the beauty beneath the lies with which men had masked it'' and to record everything he saw. Mr. Micheline's last book, ''67 Poems for Downtrodden Saints,'' was published in 1997.
        Mr. Micheline, whose original name was Harvey Martin Silver, was born on Nov. 6, 1929, in the Bronx. In 1947 and 1948 he served in the Army Medical Corps.
        He was married briefly twice in the 1960's, to Patricia Cherkin and to Mimi Redding, both marriages ending in divorce. He is survived by a son, Vincent Silvaer of Tucson, Ariz., and a granddaughter.
      