
        Dr. Mark Dexter Hollis, a public health official who raised the alarm about air and water pollution nearly 50 years ago and led efforts against malaria as chief of a precursor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, died on Feb. 24 at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Lakeland, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Lakeland.
        Dr. Hollis, a commissioned officer in the quasi-military United States Public Health Service, was a leader in efforts in World War II to control malaria and in the fight against communicable diseases. He was involved in setting up a Government agency called Malaria Control in War Areas, and he was its director when it became the Communicable Disease Center in 1942.
        Dr. Hollis chose its first quarters in Atlanta, recruited staff members and marshaled supplies and transportation at a time when the military and war production held top priority.  His agency formally started operating in mid-1946, and he remained its director into the next year.
        From the start, Dr. Hollis felt strongly that the agency was too narrowly focused and should move into areas like air and water pollution, as it did later, without duplicating the work of the National Institutes of Health.
        He returned to Public Health Service headquarters in 1947 as executive officer of the Surgeon General's Office. In 1951 Dr. Hollis was appointed Assistant Surgeon General with the rank of major general, as well as the Public Health Service's chief sanitary engineer.
        In that position he campaigned for a national program to end the poisoning of the nation's air and water, particularly in urban industrial areas. With more new chemicals coming to market, he warned, factories were polluting the country's rivers and streams much faster than anyone could clean them up.
        In 1954 Dr. Hollis began a comprehensive study of the air in cities, saying that scientific knowledge of what was in the air was as elementary as what was known about water pollution in the 1920's.
        He was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal of the Public Health Service in 1961, an honor bestowed only once before, to a former Surgeon General, Dr. Leroy E. Burney.
        Dr. Hollis ended his 30-year career with the Public Health Service that year when the World Health Organization named him its chief engineer and director of environmental health programs, based in Geneva from 1961 to 1973.
        He then moved to Florida and was vice chairman of the State Environmental Regulatory Commission until 1981, when he became a private consultant on environmental engineering.
        Mark Dexter Hollis, who was born in Buena Vista, Ga., graduated from the University of Georgia in 1931 with a degree in civil engineering and received a doctorate in science at the University of Florida in 1956.
        He first worked for the Public Health Service and the Rockefeller Foundation in 1931 and early in his career did research on typhus and stream pollution. He was commissioned a captain in the service's regular corps in 1941.
        Dr. Hollis's wife of 70 years, Virginia Dare Houchens Hollis, died last April. He is survived by a son, Mark D. Jr., of Harpers Ferry, W. Va.; a daughter, Virginia Ann H. Cooper, of Lakeland; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      