
        Dr. Hans J. Muller-Eberhard, an immunologist who made crucial discoveries about the workings of the body's immune system, died on Tuesday at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 70 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was cancer, a university official said.
        Colleagues said Dr. Muller-Eberhard's work on the immune system beginning in the 1950's provided a model for complex molecular systems in cells and laid the groundwork for a wave of research aimed at preventing diseases.
        He did much of his work at Rockefeller University in New York City and the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego. Late in his career he was the founding director of the Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of Human Diseases at the University of Texas at Houston.
        His research described the serum proteins in blood plasma that make up what is called the complement system, which works as a kind of front line of attack for the immune system, and defined the molecular structure of those proteins.
        It had been known since the late 19th century that under normal conditions, something that was later called the complement system could magnify the immune system's effects by killing off microorganisms that are the agents of infection or injury, and that the same system could also do life-threatening damage, for example, by killing off injured heart muscle that might otherwise heal and recover its functions.
        Dr. Muller-Eberhard's experiments demonstrated how the complement system worked, showing the many complex interactions of about 20 separate protein molecules that together make up what he called the ''killer molecule'' of the complement system.
        Dr. Muller-Eberhard found that these 20 proteins attack cells through enzymatic and biochemical reactions that are referred to as a ''cascade.'' To survive, the body uses  natural inhibitors that keep the ''killer molecules'' of the complement system in check by blocking certain points of the cascade. He identified feedback mechanisms that make use of hormone-like messengers that control inflammation.
        These complement interactions affect a large number of inflammatory reactions that are part of many diseases, said Dr. James T. Willerson, head of internal medicine at the University of Texas at Houston.
        ''Almost single handedly, Dr. Muller-Eberhard developed and defined the entire understanding that we have of the complement system and its role in combating infections in the body,'' Dr. Willerson said.
        He said Dr. Muller-Eberhard's work provided a model for complex molecular systems in general, and showed how protein interactions generate biological activity.
        ''He set the tone for a generation of research directed at the prevention of a host of diseases affecting the brain, heart, lung, liver and kidneys,'' Dr. Willerson added.
        Before Dr. Muller-Eberhard's work, doctors saw the complement system as the work of human serum, said Dr. K. Frank Austen, a professor of medicine at Harvard University and at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
        ''It was Hans who demonstrated that each component of the system was in fact a human protein,'' Dr. Austen said. ''At a time when we did not yet have molecular biology, he used antibodies to identify these proteins.''
        Dr. Austen said Dr. Muller-Eberhard indirectly measured the molecules based on their activity, adding, ''He believed they could be measured, and he proved it.''
        ''None of us had ever seen a complement protein before,'' Dr. Austen said.
        Born in Magdeburg, Germany, Dr. Muller-Eberhard received a doctorate in medicine from the University of Gottingen in 1953 and a doctorate in medical sciences from the University of Uppsala, Sweden, in 1961.
        From 1988 to 1995 he was head of the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg, Germany and after 1990 was also a professor at the University of Hamburg Medical School. He also worked at Gottingen and the University of California at San Diego before becoming the first holder of the Cullen Chair in Molecular Medicine at Texas.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Irma Gigli, and two daughters, Kristina of Manhattan and Monika of Palo Alto, Calif.
      