
        Richard F. Shepard, a cigar-biting, storytelling, retired New York Times writer and former cultural news editor whose gentle wit and down-to-earth manner often masked an eclectic learning that embraced languages, literature, the theater from Yiddish to Broadway, and the neighborhoods of New York, died Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 75 years old.
        Although he had been undergoing radiation therapy and other treatment for cancer, Mr. Shepard died of a heart attack while eating a bowl of chicken soup, said his wife, Gertrude, known as Trudy. A few days earlier, he had said wryly that he didn't want to be one of those people who died on a tennis court -- he had never played tennis in his life -- but would prefer to go over a good meal.
        ''Who didn't love the guy?'' Gerald Gold, a friend and a retired Times editor, said of Mr. Shepard, who over the years befriended generations of young reporters and became a mentor to interns -- many of them strangers to New York -- escorting them on tours of the city's cultures, neighborhoods and restaurants, often dazzling them with his ethnic insights and linguistic talents.
        In Astoria, he ordered garlic mashed potato dips in Greek; in Chinatown and Flushing, he ordered soup dumplings and cold sesame noodles in Mandarin delivered with what he called a perfect-pitch Queens accent. Along the way, he might recount tales of his experience in the Merchant Marine, or relate the history of the Lower East Side.
        Mr. Shepard, who was born in the Bronx and reared in Manhattan and Queens, was incorrigibly urban in outlook, sometimes quipping, ''I spent a month in the country yesterday.'' He attended City College, served as a radio officer in the Merchant Marine during World War II, joined The Times in 1946, was a copy boy until 1953 (receiving a bachelor's degree in social science from City College in 1948), and then, successively, was a ship news reporter and a reporter and reviewer in what was then the radio-television news department.
        In the days before the Op-Ed Page, he often wrote editorial page essays known as ''Topics of The Times,'' and, though he never was formally a Times columnist, he later crafted ''About New York'' columns when regular columnists were on vacation, taking readers into neighborhoods with the street wisdom of a boy who knows the right place to cadge a soda and the shortest way through the backyards.
        Capturing the flavor of a boyhood in Washington Heights, he wrote: ''It was a neighborhood great for bellywhopping down the steep scarp of the heights to the river, for walking along the New York Central tracks lining the shore, for playing stickball and perhaps occasionally breaking a window.''
        Mr. Shepard was a cultural news reporter from 1962 until 1969, covering stories in all the cultural divisions -- including drama, music, art, dance and books. In 1969 he began two years as cultural news editor. He eventually asked to step down from the job, which he did in 1971, because he did not like being a boss and because he liked writing and talking to people and getting around town. As he sometimes put it, ''I never ate lunch at my desk.''
        Indeed, Mr. Shepard, when not on assignment or leading tours of the city, was the central figure of a regular lunch with colleagues at a cafe at the Hotel Edison on West 47th Street. He called it ''the Polish Tea Room.'' To many who dined with him, it was an education in newspapering and in the lore of New York and the wider world, delivered up with pastrami and a Jackie Mason-like Borscht Belt humor that did little to conceal Mr. Shepard's erudition.
        He liked to call himself a ''dilettante in languages,'' to say he could ''get by'' in French, Spanish, Portuguese, German and Yiddish and that he had a ''smattering'' of Russian and Chinese. He claimed to have picked up his talents as a linguist in ethnic restaurants.
        But in fact he knew most of those languages well. He took Mandarin at the China Institute and read a Chinese newspaper on the subway to work; he taught himself Russian and Greek and used them regularly in New York. When he went to Norway or Italy, he boned up, took dictionaries and tried to speak no English.
        For all his learning, he was characteristically self-effacing. Recalling his student days at City College, he would say he was one of the few ''who majored in nothing, giving me a broad background.''
        Yet behind the earthy manner -- the Yiddish word for it is haimish -- lay immense sophistication about life, letters and show business. Over the years, his wide newspaper experience included theater reviewing and service as obituary editor. He retired in 1991 but continued to contribute to The Times.
        In retirement Mr. Shepard wrote a well-received book, ''The Paper's Papers: A Reporter's Journey Through the Archives of The Times'' -- the title was a play on the Pentagon Papers, whose publication was a major scoop for The Times. He also wrote a 1987 book, ''Broadway: From the Battery to the Bronx.'' With photographs by Carin Drechsler-Marx and text by Mr. Shepard, it explored the history, architecture, commerce and entertainment of the city's 21-mile spine.
        To many native New Yorkers, Mr. Shepard's writings provided a vivid window on the past. He recalled his days at Townsend Harris High School and at P.S. 144 in Forest Hills, and there was humor, insight and nostalgia in the graceful prose.
        ''Some of the old desks remain,'' he said of P.S. 144. ''The inkwells, made obsolete by the ball-point pen, are missing, although the holes are still there on the desk's upper right-hand corner, while to their left is the shallow groove in which pens and pencils lay. Some of these old desks are riddled with tedium-inspired scratches of bygone generations.
        ''They conjured up memories of that calligraphic torture known as the Palmer Method by which, theory ordained, beautiful penmanship would somehow follow hours of drawing shaded circles and graceful squiggles with the paper placed at an angle -- was it 45 degrees? -- relative to the writing forearm.''
        Mr. Shepard is survived by his wife, the former Gertrude Ellenberg; two sons, Robert of Bethesda, Md., and Daniel of Queens, and three grandchildren.
        After retiring, he spent part of each winter in Florida, but was always glad to come home. ''He was just so happy to be surrounded by people of all cultures and ethnic backgrounds,'' his wife recalled. ''He said, 'I just feel I'm alive again.' ''
      