
        Col. Russell P. (Red) Reeder, who accumulated six demerits in his first two hours as a cadet at West Point, but went on to become one of its most beloved graduates and a highly decorated commander in the D-Day invasion of Normandy, died last Sunday at Inova Mount Vernon Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 95 and lived in a military retirement community adjacent to Fort Belvoir, Va.
        Through five decades, Colonel Reeder left his mark on the academy -- as a football and baseball player, molder of leadership courses, athletic administrator and author of books chronicling West Point.
        The son of an Army colonel and Spanish-American War veteran for whom he was named, Russell Potter Reeder was born on March 4, 1902, at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. As a red-haired Army brat, he lived on military posts around the country, and then, at age 11, earned his first commendation, the Treasury Department's Silver Life-Saving Medal, for rescuing a sergeant's 6-year-old son who was drowning in Casco Bay, Me. He later credited his mother, who had ordered, ''Go get him, Russell.''
        Soon after World War I, he entered West Point. In his 1966 autobiography ''Born at Reveille,'' he told of his first-day encounter with an officer supervising the plebes, or freshmen.
        The officer said, ''Didn't I tell you about 12 minutes ago to work on your room?''
        ''Yes, sir.''
        ''Then why aren't you doing it?''
        ''Sir, I was getting ready to. I thought----''
        ''The answer is, 'No excuse, sir.' ''
        ''Yes, sir. No excuse, sir.''
        ''That's better.''
        As Colonel Reeder remembered it: ''The officer smiled pleasantly and I felt relieved. Then he said quietly: 'I am reporting you for failure to carry out instructions. I'm sure you are the first one in your class to be awarded six demerits.' ''
        Cadet Reeder recalled years later, ''I majored in football and baseball.'' He was the first baseman and captain of the baseball team and a drop-kicker on the football squad, once betting the Gipper, Notre Dame's George Gipp, that he could beat him in a pregame kicking contest. Gipp won $10, then the Irish won the game.
        With his studies running second to sports, by the time Cadet Reeder graduated with the Class of 1926, he had been at West Point for six years.
        When the United States entered World War II, Colonel Reeder was stationed in California. He soon  joined the Army's operations division in Washington, then was sent to the Pacific by the Chief of Staff, Gen. George C. Marshall, to analyze the lessons American troops had learned in combat on Guadalcanal.
        His recommendations impressed General Marshall, who wrote a forward to the report, had one million copies printed and issued them to trainees.
        Colonel Reeder went to England in April 1944 to take over the 12th Infantry Regiment of the Fourth Infantry Division. On D-Day, June 6, 1944, Colonel Reeder's 3,000-man regiment went ashore at Utah Beach, four-and-a-half hours after the first wave. German opposition was light, in contrast to the fierce resistance at Omaha Beach, but the landmarks on Colonel Reeder's map were nowhere in sight. The Navy had mistakenly landed the troops two miles south of their assigned spots.
        Fifty years later, at D-Day observances in Normandy, President Clinton quoted Colonel Reeder's response to the situation: ''It doesn't matter. We know where to go.''
        But it wasn't so simple. The causeway leading inland was jammed with troops and equipment, so Colonel Reeder had to take his men through marshland that the Germans had flooded. The troops were heavily burdened by their weapons and equipment, but they had life preservers, and they made it through.
        Colonel Reeder's regiment penetrated five miles inland by nightfall, and over the next four days he led his men through bitter hedgerow fighting on the Cherbourg Peninsula. But on June 11, an 88-millimeter round shattered his left ankle and almost severed his leg.
        At a field hospital, Colonel Reeder was presented with the first Distinguished Service Cross, the Army's second-highest award for valor, awarded in the Normandy campaign. After being evacuated to England, he was flown to Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington,  where his leg was amputated.
        In 1946, Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, the commander of the 101st Airborne in its landings behind Utah Beach and then the West Point superintendent, appointed Colonel Reeder as a regimental commander at the academy and asked him to create a leadership course for cadets, which still forms a part of the curriculum.
        After retiring from the Army, Colonel Reeder became an assistant athletic director at West Point in 1947 and remained in the post for 20 years while helping coach the baseball team, whose annual most-valuable-player award is named for him. Last May, the academy honored him anew by presenting him with its Distinguished Graduate Award.
        After retiring from the Army he embarked on a writing career, focusing on American military history, biography and novels, most of his books written for young readers.
        Colonel Reeder collaborated with his sister Nardi Reeder Campion of Hanover, N.H., on ''Bringing Up the Brass,'' the autobiography of Sgt. Marty Maher, the trainer at the West Point gymnasium for a half-century. That memoir was made into the 1955 movie ''The Long Gray Line,'' starring Tyrone Power.
        Colonel Reeder's wife, Dorothea, known as Dort, died on Jan. 26. In addition to his sister, he is survived by a son, Russell of New York City; three daughters, the Rev. Ann Reeder Riggs of Tappahannock, Va., Dorothea Hruby of Burke, Va., and Julia McCutchen of Florence, Ala.; a brother, Adm. Frederick Martin Reeder of Laurel, Miss.; 10 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.  In his long association with West Point, Colonel Reeder forged friendships with figures that ranged from the football coach Red Blaik to Gen. Omar Bradley, his one-time math instructor. He liked to tell a story about General Bradley and Toots Shor, whose Manhattan restaurant was a favorite spot for sports figures and other celebrities.
        ''One day I stopped in Toots's place and he said, 'Your friend General Bradley was here. He told me that if you hadn't been wounded you would've been a three-star general.'
        ''Next time I was in, Toots said, 'I was talking about you with Omar Bradley. He said if you hadn't been wounded you would've made two-star general.'
        ''Next time I saw Toots, he said, 'General Bradley says if you hadn't been wounded you would have been a one-star general.' I said, 'If you don't mind, Toots, I'd rather not discuss it anymore.' ''
      