
        Sydney Gruson, a former hotel bellboy who became a foreign correspondent, the foreign editor of The New York Times and then a corporate executive of The Times Company, died yesterday evening at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was not immediately clear, but he had been suffering from kidney and heart ailments for several years, his son, Lindsey, said.
        Mr. Gruson rose through ability, hard work and charm from a hardscrabble boyhood as one of the eight children of a Lithuanian-born scrap-metal dealer. The Gruson family lived in Dublin, where he was born, and then in Toronto. Family financial problems forced him to quit school there and go to work as a bellboy when he was 12.
        Before long, he was hired as an office boy for the Canadian Press news agency after impressing the agency's head. He went on to write for the agency from 1932 to 1944.
        He joined The Times in 1944, won renown for his informed and energetic reporting from overseas and went on to spend two years as the paper's foreign news editor, in charge of its international news coverage.
        He became a New York Times Company executive in 1969 and rose to be an executive vice president. He then became a director and vice chairman. He left those two posts in 1986, when he was almost 70.
        In 1987, he went into investment banking, becoming senior adviser to Rothschild Inc., the United States operation of the Rothschild group in London and Paris. He specialized in mergers and acquisitions in the communications field, and still held the title of senior adviser at his death.
        Praise for Coverage Of Upheaval in Poland
        It was in October 1956, when he was 39, that he had one of his finest hours as a journalist. The Times articles he wrote then about an anti-Stalinist upheaval in Poland were praised 32 years later by Harrison E. Salisbury, a former Times editor and an expert on Communism, as ''the most remarkable dispatches I have ever seen from the Communist world, documenting hour by hour, almost minute by minute, the inside story of the crisis.''
        Mr. Gruson saw it coming. On its eve, on Oct. 18, he wrote: ''The bright sun, the autumn gold of the trees and the inviting snap of October weather cloaked Warsaw in a false display of serenity today. The mood of the city on the eve of a meeting of the Communist Party leadership is a revolutionary one, not a revolution against communism, but a revolution to change communism as it has been known here since the end of World War II.''
        The next morning with Poland and its Communist Party in ferment, the Soviet Communist leader Nikita S. Khrushchev and other Soviet figures flew to Warsaw. They argued angrily with Wladyslaw Gomulka and other Polish reformist and nationalist leaders. Mr. Gomulka stood up to the Soviets, and Polish troops and workers prepared to do the same, although Soviet armored units were moving threateningly inside Poland.
        Mr. Gruson was able to report the unfolding of the crisis with authority and depth in part because highly placed Poles, who were involved in resisting the Soviet pressure, felt that they had not been able to get their side of the story directly through to the United States Government. They wanted news of what was happening to reach the West quickly, and they kept providing him with information, more than went to other English-language correspondents.
        The Poles' courage in standing up to the Soviets was rewarded when Mr. Khrushchev and his entourage backed down. He returned to Moscow on Oct. 20. Mr. Gruson was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the crisis. He continued sending dispatches from Poland in 1957, and The Times won a Pulitzer Prize ''for its distinguished coverage of foreign news'' in that year.
        A high point of The Times's 1957 reporting was a worldwide newsbeat that Mr. Gruson scored, also from Poland, in obtaining the text of Mao Zedong's ''Hundred Flowers'' speech, which ushered in a temporary thaw in Chinese politics.
        All told, Mr. Gruson spent a dozen years reporting for The Times on events in Eastern Europe and Germany during the cold war. He won two Overseas Press Club citations  for his work in those years.
        'Ahead of the Pack,' Not 'Breathing Hard'
        Appraising Mr. Gruson's dispatches from overseas, A. M. Rosenthal, a former Times correspondent who became the paper's executive editor, once wrote: ''Sydney scored awfully high at 'fun and games' -- the exclusive, the document, the hard story, banging the nail right on the head before anybody else, running ahead of the pack without breathing hard.''
        While Mr. Gruson was a foreign correspondent, he often worked together with his first wife, the journalist Flora Lewis, in covering the news. In those years, Miss Lewis contributed frequently to The New York Times Magazine and wrote for other publications. The Times then had a rule against hiring wives of its correspondents.
        Mr. Gruson and Miss Lewis were married in 1945 and were divorced in 1972. She joined the staff of The Times later that year and for the next 18 years was variously the paper's Paris bureau chief, European diplomatic correspondent and foreign affairs columnist. Then she became senior columnist for a time.
        It was in 1965 and 1966 that Mr. Gruson was the foreign editor. He is remembered fondly, by old-timers in the Times newsroom on West 43d Street, for stopping work now and then to burst into song. He went on to serve, in 1966 and 1967, as the editor and chief executive officer of the International Edition of The Times that was published in Paris in those days.
        When he began his two decades in Times Company corporate posts in New York, it was as assistant to Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who was then president of the company and publisher of The Times. His son, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., is now the paper's publisher and chairman of the Times Company.
        Beginning in 1971, when the company bought Family Circle magazine, a Memphis television station and three Florida newspapers, Mr. Gruson played an important role in a program to expand its operations.
        In that year, he became the director of the company's affiliated newspapers, magazines and broadcasting properties and of other affiliated companies. He later led its efforts to make further acquisitions.
        During his years as a Times corporate executive, he advised Mr. Sulzberger on journalistic as well as business matters. Mr. Gruson was a mellow and persuasive counselor, and when Mr. Rosenthal, as executive editor from 1977 to 1986, had a journalistic point that he wanted reinforced with Mr. Sulzberger, he sometimes enlisted Mr. Gruson's aid.
        When Mr. Gruson left the Times board as a director, Mr. Sulzberger, who had become the company's chairman, said Times people would miss ''his warmth, his style.'' Mr. Gruson was a perennially debonair and ebullient figure with a love of life, particularly the good life.
        Gay Talese, the author and former Times reporter, wrote in his 1969 book about The Times, ''The Kingdom and the Power,'' that Mr. Gruson ''not only liked to cover the world -- he liked to live in it, to enjoy it, to luxuriate whenever possible in fashionable places with fashionable people.''
        Mr. Gruson's friendships with such people came after long years of hard work, in some of which his better-off contemporaries were going to high school and college. He may not have had those advantages, but he became a true sophisticate, devoted to the theater and opera, especially after his marriage to Marit Bergson Gentele, who had been in the theater in her native Sweden and had been married to Goran Gentele, the head of the Swedish Opera.
        Mr. Gentele was killed in a car crash in Sardinia in 1972, shortly after he took up the reins as general manager of the Metropolitan Opera in New York. The Genteles' two daughters were also killed.
        Marit Gentele recovered from serious injuries and in 1974 married Mr. Gruson.
        Years later, when Mr. Gruson retired from The Times Company, Mr. Sulzberger's gift to him was a box at the Metropolitan Opera.
        From Bellboy in Toronto To Canadian Press Job
        He was a son of the former Edith Black, a Dubliner, and Harry Gruson, who had become a longtime resident of Dublin after leaving Lithuania. The family settled in Toronto a year before Sydney Gruson went to work as a bellboy there.
        In the next 15 years, he worked his way up to a job as a Canadian Press correspondent in London during World War II. At a party there in 1944, the story goes, he got into a fight with a higher-ranking Canadian Press man and knocked him out. Mr. Gruson then quit the agency, was hired by The Times and became a Times war correspondent, covering the European front after the Normandy invasion.
        When the war ended, he began reporting on Eastern Europe with Warsaw as his base. In 1948, he covered the Arab-Israeli war of that year and the Soviet blockade of Berlin. He was based in The Hague afterward and was transferred in 1951 to Mexico City.
        From that base, he did much reporting about Guatemala. In 1954, there were widespread rumors that a coup was going to be mounted against the leftist Guatemalan Government of Col. Jacobo Arbenz Guzman.
        At the time, Allen Dulles, the director of the United States Central Intelligence Agency, told his Princeton classmate, Gen. Julius Ochs Adler, The Times's general manager, that he did not believe that Mr. Gruson, who the agency thought had ''liberal'' leanings, could report objectively on that forthcoming revolution. He asked that The Times keep Mr. Gruson away from the story.
        Later that year, Colonel Arbenz was indeed overthrown, and it subsequently became known that the C.I.A. had played a central part in bringing on the revolution that led to his downfall. In 1977, The Times reported that the C.I.A.'s files contained some evidence that it had feared that Mr. Gruson's reporting, while based in Mexico City, was edging toward a premature discovery of the agency's role in Guatemala.
        Mr. Gruson said in an interview in 1977 that he had learned later that Arthur Ochs Sulzberger's father, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, who was The Times's publisher in 1954, had complied with the C.I.A.'s request by arranging to keep him in Mexico City and away from Guatemala.
        Mr. Gruson said the elder Mr. Sulzberger had brought this about by claiming to have received a tip that the fighting might spill across the Guatemalan border into Mexico. A newly declassified C.I.A. history of the Guatemala coup gave confirmation last year that Mr. Gruson was spied on by the C.I.A. before being kept out of Guatemala by The Times.
        Despite the pressures of his job, Mr. Gruson managed to indulge his penchant for good living in Mexico City. He owned several race horses and he played much golf. He rashly confided these frailties to The Times's managing editor at that time, Turner Catledge, when Mr. Catledge visited him there.
        Not long afterward, at the end of 1954, The Times transferred Mr. Gruson from Mexico City, where he had been based for four years, to New York. From there he was transferred in 1955 back behind the Iron Curtain, where he re-established the Times bureau in what was then a relatively un-sporty city: Prague. As Mr. Talese told the race horse story in his book, Mr. Catledge maintained that his Mexico trip had nothing to do with Mr. Gruson's later moves.
        From Prague, Mr. Gruson traveled widely, and in 1957, he transferred his base of operations to Warsaw. He went on to head The Times's Bonn bureau from 1958 to 1963, and its London bureau from 1963 to 1965.
        In his next job, as foreign editor, he was inquisitive: he sent correspondents scrambling around villages in South Vietnam to try to find out what they really thought about the American involvement.
        In the following years, when he headed the Times's International Edition, its circulation climbed to 47,000 from 40,000 and its advertising rose by 20 percent. But it continued to operate in the red, and eventually he helped merge it with another English-language newspaper published in Paris, The New York Herald Tribune-The Washington Post, to form The International Herald Tribune.
        In 1968, Mr. Gruson left The Times and became associate publisher of Newsday. Nine months later, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger got him to return to The Times as his assistant.
        In December 1997, an honorary Doctor of Laws degree was conferred on Mr. Gruson by Dr. Frank O'Reilly, chancellor of the University of Dublin. The ceremony, at the Times Building on West 43d Street, included seven university officials, a formal academic procession complete with silver mace, a ritual in Latin, and a crimson and pink robe worn by the degree recipient.
        Besides his son, Lindsey, of South Kent, Conn., he is survived by his wife; two daughters, Kerry Gruson of the New York Times bureau in Miami and Sheila Gruson of Tiverton in Devon, England; three sisters, Julie Shatsky of Vancouver, British Columbia, Nesta Green of Delray Beach, Fla., and Lillian Mednick of Toronto; two brothers, Murray, of Manhattan, and Edward, of Milford, Conn., and a granddaughter.
        The funeral will be private, and a memorial service will be held later. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Rogosin Institute of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center or the Sydney Gruson Chair of the Chaim Herzog Center at Trinity College in Dublin.
      