
        Norman E. Isaacs, a prominent newspaper editor and expert on press matters, died on Saturday in a residence for people with Alzheimer's disease in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 89 and formerly lived in Katonah, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Stephen.
        Born in Manchester, England, Norman Isaacs moved with his family to Canada and then to Indianapolis. He quit high school and went to work for the Indanapolis Star, rising to become an editor on two other Indianapolis newspapers and the executive editor of two Kentucky newspapers, The Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, from 1962 to 1971.
        In 1967, as he reported in a book he wrote about newspaper ethics, ''Untended Gates: The Mismanaged Press'' (Columbia, 1986), ''My attention was riveted by an article in The New York Times Magazine.'' In the article, A. H. Raskin, an editor of the editorial page at The Times, proposed that newspapers name ''an ombudsman for the readers, armed with authority to get something done about valid complaints and to propose methods for more effective performance of all the paper's services to the community.''
        Mr. Isaacs wrote that at his Kentucky newspapers, ''We moved to take the challenge,'' and eight days later both papers ''announced the appointment of the first newspaper ombudsman in the United States.''
        In 1953, as managing editor of The Louisville Times, he was president of the Associated Press Managing Editors Association. In 1969 and 1970, he was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and in that role he charged in a speech that the Nixon Administration was seeking to intimidate and muzzle the American press and television.
        From 1971 to 1980, he was editor-in-residence at the Columbia Journalism School. In 1975 and 1976, he was also president and publisher of the News Journal Company in Wilmington, Del., and, from 1977 to 1982, he was chairman and guiding force of the old National News Council, which assessed complaints about major news organizations. He was also a member of the Nieman Fellows selection committee and the Pulitzer Prizes advisory board.
        He married Dorothy Ritz in 1932 and she died in 1977.
        Besides his son, a professor at Columbia Journalism School, he is survived by his wife of 19 years, the former Mildred L. Wade of Santa Barbara; a daughter, Roberta Mathews of Washington; five grandchildren, and three great-grandsons.
      