
        Charles Edward Hall, the AIDS patient who fought in the Florida courts for the right to die with the help of a doctor,  died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Fla. He was 36.
        Mr. Hall had been bedridden for months from complications of H.I.V., which he contracted in a blood transfusion during back surgery in 1984.
        His lawyer, Robert Rivas of Boca Raton, Fla., said that Mr. Hall's death was by natural causes and that he had abandoned any hope of assisted suicide after a court ruling last April that denied his request.
        ''He just went in his sleep,'' Mr. Rivas said.
        A spokeswoman for the Citrus County Sheriff's Office said it had no plans to investigate Mr. Hall's death.
        ''He lived longer than anticipated,'' said Dr. Cecil McIver, who had been attending him.
        Dr. McIver had agreed to prescribe a lethal dose of morphine for Mr. Hall but was prevented from doing so by the Florida Supreme Court.
        ''It's just unfortunate that it was such a drawn-out death,'' the doctor said today.
        The sadness of Mr. Hall's death, Dr. McIver said, is that he died in the very way he was trying to avoid. Though hospice-care organizations  care adequately for many dying people, he said, there are people ''for whom ordinary services are not adequate.''
        In 1996 Mr. Hall filed a lawsuit with two other terminally ill men challenging the state's 128-year-old law that classifies assisted suicide as manslaughter. Mr. Hall's suit argued that a right-to-privacy amendment in the state Constitution took precedence over the law banning assisted suicide. Filed against the Palm Beach County State Attorney's office, the lawsuit sought to allow Dr. McIver to administer a lethal dose of drugs to the men without fear of prosecution.
        By the time the case went to trial in January 1997, the other two litigants, Charles Castonguay and Robert Cron, had died of cancer. During the trial, Mr. Hall gave impassioned testimony from his wheelchair. He told of health problems that included  a brain cyst, hepatitis B, herpes, arthritis and partial blindness.
        ''I can't even describe the pain,'' Mr. Hall told the court.
        Judge Joseph S. Davis of State Circuit Court eventually ruled that Dr. McIver had the right to carry out Mr. Hall's wishes, but only in Palm Beach County, where the doctor lives. Mr. Hall took the case to the Florida Supreme Court in an effort to have the procedure performed in Citrus County, where he lived, and to extend the right to other terminally ill patients.
        Six months later, the Florida Supreme Court reversed Judge Davis's decision and effectively ended the legal challenge because the United States Supreme Court had already ruled that no such right existed in the United States Constitution.
        In an interview last April, Mr. Hall said, explaining his suit: ''It's not killing myself when I get to the point when I'm only existing. I'm not living at that point. So why is it murder or killing myself? If I'm not functioning as a human being, why not just get it over with?
        ''I pray every day of my life that when it comes to that point that God will just take me, that I won't have to suffer.''
        Mr. Hall, a Lutheran and a lifelong resident of Citrus County, formerly managed a Pizza Hut restaurant.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda; his parents, Henry and Mary E. Hall of Inverness, Fla.; two brothers, Henry A. Hall Jr., of Rochester, and Stanley H. Hall, of Inverness, and a sister, Diana Hall Kirkland, of Wachula, Fla.
      