
        Yale Brozen, a retired professor of business economics who was a vocal critic of government regulation, died on March 4 at his home in San Diego. He was 80.
        Mr. Brozen was suffering from heart disease, according to his wife, Katherine Hart Brozen.
        A member of the so-called Chicago school of economics, which advocates a free-market approach to the economy, Mr. Brozen wrote and spoke extensively about regulation and antitrust issues.
        In addition to spending three decades at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, Mr. Brozen also served as a consultant to numerous corporations and government agencies, including AT&T, General Motors and the antitrust division of the Department of Justice.
        ''He had a great ability to understand how to apply microeconomic theory and thinking to everyday situations, government situations and business situations,'' said Gary D. Eppen, a professor of operations management at Chicago.
        In making his case against government interference, Mr. Brozen could often be outspoken, both in and out of the classroom. ''He always expressed himself very forcefully,'' recalled Merton H. Miller, a professor emeritus of finance at Chicago. Mr. Brozen was a strong representative of the Chicago school, he said, along with such well-known economists as Milton Friedman and George Stigler.
        One of Mr. Brozen's most ardent attacks on government intervention was during the early 1970's. The Federal Trade Commission had charged the ITT Continental Baking Company, the makers of Wonder Bread, with false advertising over its claim that the bread ''helps build strong bodies 12 ways,'' because other bread makers could make the same claim.
        While serving as a consultant to the public relations firm employed by the company, Mr. Brozen made speeches sharply critical of the agency's actions, which he likened to ''shades of the Salem witch trials'' and characterized as ''an obvious bit of foolishness.''
        Mr. Brozen's attack on the agency's position, which he argued would force companies to promote a competitor's product in their advertising, was echoed by others seeking to defend advertisers and prompted a sharp response from the agency.
        But the F.T.C. was hardly Mr. Brozen's only target. A proponent of fiscal conservatism, he spoke out on a variety of topics, ranging from the energy crisis to the Federal budget deficit. When describing the budget proposed by President Jimmy Carter in an opinion piece in the Sunday Business section of The New York Times in 1978, for example, he called the President's behavior ''absolutely unprecedented and utterly irresponsible.''
        Mr. Brozen ''was never interested in being politically correct or popular,'' Mr. Eppen said.
        Before joining the University of Chicago in 1957, where he directed the school's programs in applied economics and research and development administration, Mr. Brozen taught at Northwestern University. He was also an adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
        Born in Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Brozen attended Kansas City Community College in the mid-1930's. He received two bachelor's degrees, one from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the other from the University of Chicago. He earned his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago in 1942. During World War II, he was the director of the radar and telephone maintenance training program in the Army Signal Corps.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his two sons, Yale Brozen 2d of Rochester, Vt., and Dr. Reed Brozen of Hanover, N.H., and a sister, Geraldine Weiner of Kansas City, Mo.
      