
        Charles F. Phillips, a former president of Bates College in Lewiston, Me., who helped oversee the Government's rationing of goods during World War II, died at the Central Maine Medical Center in Auburn on Tuesday. He was 87 and lived in Auburn.
        When he became president of Bates in 1944, Mr. Phillips was the youngest president in its history. He was born in Nelson, Pa., in 1910.
        He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Colgate University in 1931 and received a doctorate in economics from Harvard University in 1934.
        After short teaching stints in economics at Hobart College and Colgate University, Mr. Phillips served with the Office of Price Administration during World War II as deputy administrator for rationing.
        Among his duties were warning the transportation industry of severe rubber shortages, rationing tires, keeping pleasure driving in check to conserve fuel and occasionally sparring with drivers groups.
        For example, when the Automobile Club of New York proposed in 1944 that gasoline rations to American drivers be increased to match the amount being sold on the black market, Mr. Phillips fired off a letter to its president: ''The vast majority of American car owners are patriotically living within their gasoline allotments. The black market lives on the small minority of people who either do not understand or who disregard the damaging effects of the traffic and the fact that it springs from criminal roots.''
        After the war, he became president of Bates, overseeing a large expansion in its faculty and infrastructure.
        He retired from the position in 1967, but continued to work as a consultant to General Electric and other companies and as a director on several corporate boards.
        He also wrote several textbooks on marketing and retailing.
        He is survived by one son, Charles Phillips Jr., of Lexington, Va.; one daughter, Carol Ann Taylor, of Birmingham, Ala.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. His wife, Evelyn, died six months ago.
      