
        Rudolf Baranik, a painter, writer and teacher well known in the art world for his political advocacy, died March 6 at his home in El Dorado, N.M., outside Santa Fe. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Lucy R. Lippard, the art critic and a longtime friend.
        Mr. Baranik believed equally in art's ''poetic prerogatives'' and its ''moral responsibility,'' a stance that made him a moderating, unusually flexible anomaly in the polemic-prone art world of the 1970's and 80's. At a time when art and politics were often seen as an either-or choice, Mr. Baranik defended painting's sovereignty against those who thought it was dead or irrelevant and argued for its social role against those who thought it should remain above the political fray. A frequent participant in both public and written debate, he liked to call himself a ''socialist formalist.''
        The phrase fit his dark, brooding semiabstract paintings, which were steeped in the gesturalism of Abstract Expressionism but also inhabited by spectral representations of human faces or geological formations.
        These the artist deliberately left unclear, forcing his viewers to sort out the often frightening, inchoate turbulences for themselves.
        Sometimes the images were extremely personal. Those to be found in the surfaces of ''Sleep Well,'' which Mr. Baranik made after his son, Steven, who was also an artist, committed suicide in 1982, included motifs of a horse's head taken from Steven's artwork.
        Sometimes the images were dramatically political: the glowing white spheres in his ''Napalm Elegies'' series, the 30 antiwar paintings that Mr. Baranik made between 1967 and 1974, were based on a photograph of the head of a Cambodian child, lying on its side, whose face had been savagely disfigured.
        Mr. Baranik began the series in 1967, at a time when he was also one of the first artists to organize protests against the war in Vietnam. In the 1970's, the organization Artists Meeting for Cultural Change was formed at a meeting in his loft. He also organized artists' statements and protests on issues including civil rights, Chile, Attica and feminism.
        In the 1980's, he was active in the group Artists Call Against U.S. Intervention in Central America.
        Mr. Baranik was born in Lithuania in 1920, the son of secular Jewish socialists who were killed by fascists during World War II. He immigrated to the United States in 1938 and, after serving in the Army during the war, he studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students League in New York City. From 1948 to 1951, he lived in Paris and studied with Fernand Leger, who urged him to lighten his palette, to no avail.
        Returning to New York in 1951, Mr. Baranik became part of a circle of politically minded painters who included Leon Golub and Nancy Spero as well as May Stevens, whom Mr. Baranik had married in 1948. But he was also close to the abstract painter Ad Reinhardt, another Lithuanian, who kept art and politics strictly separate. In the tradition of Reinhardt's witty word diagrams, Mr. Baranik made word paintings, sprinkled with names of artists and styles that mapped the art world's social and esthetic intricacies.
        Mr. Baranik taught at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn from 1966 to 1991. Well read and fluent in five languages, he contributed essays to several art magazines, wrote poetry and also wrote ''A Dictionary From the 24th Century,'' parts of which were published in 1987. In it he tried to show, by tracking the changing definition of certain words (for example, apartheid, holocaust), how the barbarities of the 20th century might look from the future.
        Mr. Baranik's work is represented in public collections including the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, the Moderna Museet in Stockholm and the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington. The ''Napalm Elegies'' were the subject of an exhibition at Ohio State University in 1987. In 1994 a joint exhibition, ''Existential/Political: Works From the Fourth Decade by Rudolf Baranik and May Stevens,'' was organized at Exit Art/ The First World, an alternative space in SoHo.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Baranik is survived by a brother, Joseph Baranik of Manhattan.
      