
        Donald Joyce, an organist whose expansive repertory ranged from Renaissance and Baroque works by Spanish, Portuguese and Mexican composers to recent scores by Philip Glass, died on Tuesday at the home of his sister, Virginia Keil, in North Brunswick, N.J. Mr. Joyce was 45 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, Ms. Keil said.
        Mr. Joyce, who was the organist and music director of the Church of the Holy Apostles and organist at the Central Synagogue in Manhattan, played recitals regularly in other local churches. For several years, he also presented other organists in a recital series that he directed at the Church of St. John the Evangelist.
        He was admired as an inventive colorist with a solid technique and an approach to programming that demanded both imagination and stamina. He celebrated the Bach tercentenary in 1985, for example, by performing all of Bach's organ music --  some 228 works, including 27 that had traditionally been attributed to Bach but were of doubtful authorship -- in 13 recitals.
        He was to have performed the Bach cycle this summer at the Lincoln Center Festival. Janice Price, a spokeswoman for Lincoln Center, said that the Bach series, which is to be performed by Christopher Herrick, would be dedicated to Mr. Joyce's memory.
        When he presented a program of music by the Iberian composers whose work was one of his principal interests over the last decade, he prefaced his performance with a brief but informative lecture about the composers and the special characteristics of the organs for which they wrote.
        He was equally devoted to works of the 20th century. He collaborated with Albert Ahlstrom on concerts of new works for organ and synthesizer, and he devoted one recent concert, as well as a 1993 recording, to the works of Mr. Glass. His other recordings included two disks of Iberian and Mexican music and several volumes of Bach.
        Mr. Joyce was born in Sewickley, Pa., and studied the organ at the Juilliard School and at the Geneva Conservatory. He was on the faculty at Queens College, and last summer he established a class in organ studies at the University of Guanajuato, Mexico.
        In addition to Ms. Keil, he is survived by his mother, Anne Rose of Las Vegas, N.M., his father, Walter Joyce of Ambridge, Pa., a brother, Kenneth Joyce of Dallas, and another sister, Carol Bochner of Melbourne, Fla.
      