
        Nathan R. Owen, the longtime chairman and chief executive of the General Signal Corporation who helped build it into a major industrial company, died March 9 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause of death was complications related to abdominal surgery, David Owen, his son, said.
        Mr. Owen helped found General Signal in 1962. Today it makes products as diverse as exit signs, bus fare boxes and power transformers.
        In his 22 years as head of the company, it swallowed no fewer than 60 companies.
        Although General Signal later sold one of its original businesses -- the division that manufactured railway signals -- the company's annual sales of electrical equipment, fire alarms, clocks, floor polishers and other products grew from about $18 million in 1962 to more than $1.8 billion and about 25,000 employees in 1984, when Mr. Owen retired.
        Since then, industrial conglomerates have lost some of their luster and become a smaller force. General Signal, which is based in Stamford, Conn., remains a large conglomerate, having consolidated many of the companies it swallowed, but it now has just 10,000 employees and is no longer the giant it once was.
        Mr. Owen was born May 3, 1919, in Burnt Hills, N.Y., the son of a General Electric foreman. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1941 and 1942, and also studied business.
        After college, Mr. Owen studied at the United States Naval Postgraduate School in Annapolis, Md., and then, during World War II, worked as a supervising engineer in the navy yards in San Francisco, where warships were repaired.
        Later, he became a mechanical engineer at Chase Brass and Copper in Waterbury, Conn., and then joined J. H. Whitney, a venture capital firm, where he became a partner.
        At Whitney in the early 1960's, he arranged a merger of the Regina Company, one of the world's leading manufacturers of floor polishers and vacuum cleaners, and General Railway Signal of Rochester. In 1962, he left Whitney to become chief executive of the company, which later became General Signal.
        Mr. Owen is survived by his wife, Janet Smith Owen; two daughters, Patricia Owen Smith of Stuart, Fla., and Lorinda Owen Clauson of Greenwich, Conn.; his son, David, of Columbia, S.C.; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      