
        Richard Plant, a teacher, a writer and a scholar of the Holocaust, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Mr. Plant was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, and was educated in Switzerland. He later became a professor of Germanic literature at the City College of the City University of New York. He was a frequent contributor of book reviews to The New York Times, Saturday Review and other newspapers and journals.
        In ''The Pink Triangle: The Nazi War Against Homosexuals,'' published in 1986, Mr. Plant attempted to uncover the murky story of the Nazi persecution of gay men and, to a far lesser extent (for reasons Mr. Plant never understood), lesbian women.
        Mr. Plant traced the beginning of this campaign to a directive from Heinrich Himmler, chief of the SS, issued just two months after Hitler became Chancellor of Germany in February 1933. Eventually, thousands of homosexuals were killed outright, or sent to concentration camps. In a review of the book for The Times, Stephan Salisbury praised Mr. Plant for shedding light ''on this obscure and nasty byway of National Socialism.''
        In the 1960's, by chance, Mr. Plant became fascinated by the story of Lizzie Borden, New England's infamous ax murderer. This work eventually led to his writing a scenario for an opera, ''Lizzie Borden,'' by the composer Jack Beeson, with a libretto by Kenward Elmslie, which received its premiere by the New York City Opera on March 25, 1965, and is to be presented by the company in a new production next season.
        At the time of the work's premiere, Mr. Plant explained his attraction to the lurid tale in an interview with Saturday Review. ''I have a very un-Germanic and very British enthusiasm for detective and murder stories,'' he said. '' 'Lizzie Borden' is a psychological study, very O'Neill-like. Consider a family enclosed in a New England prison of a house.'' He had stumbled across papers about the Borden family and the murder while browsing the stacks of Butler Library at Columbia University.
        Mr. Plant later taught at the New School for Social Research. He continued to publish reviews in The Times through the 1980's.
        He is survived by his companion, Michael Sasse.
      