
        Jack T. Conway, who as an official of the Johnson Administration worked to establish Head Start and several other Great Society programs, died on Tuesday morning at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        A longtime labor worker, Mr. Conway took a leave of absence from his job at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1965 to head President Lyndon B. Johnson's Community Action Program, an initiative intended to distribute grants to more than 250 communities as part of the Administration's War on Poverty. The Community Action Program was a part of the Office of Economic Opportunity, the agency primarily responsible for coordinating the anti-poverty drive.
        As the program's director, Mr. Conway helped to arrange financing for the Head Start and Job Corps programs across the country. At that time, Head Start was intended to assist preschool children from low-income families. But Mr. Conway later resigned, frustrated by what he saw as political battles between liberals and conservatives in Congress over the programs. The programs came under attack from both sides, who saw them either as promoting political patronage or as doing little of actual benefit to the poor.
        Mr. Conway came to Washington in 1960 as the deputy administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency in President John F. Kennedy's Administration. While there, he helped to draft the Omnibus Housing Act of 1961, which established the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        From 1970 to 1975, Mr. Conway was the first president of Common Cause. Among the group's priorities were public opposition to the war in Vietnam and campaign finance reform. Mr. Conway is credited with steering the group through a time of membership and budget difficulties.
        Afterward, Mr. Conway was the executive director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. He later served as the senior vice president of the United Way of America.
        An active member of the Democratic Party, Mr. Conway was chairman of the national committee of Americans for Democratic Action in 1968, when the group was in a contentious debate over supporting the Presidential campaign of either Mr. Johnson or Eugene J. McCarthy.
        Mr. Conway also worked with a number of nonprofit organizations to improve social conditions in cities.
        It was while working for a Buick aircraft engine plant near Chicago in the 1940's that Mr. Conway first became active in the labor movement. He organized workers on behalf of the United Automobile Workers and served as chairman of its bargaining committee.
        He also served as an international representative for the United Automobile Workers.
        A native of Detroit, Mr. Conway received a bachelor's degree in sociology from the University of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife, LuVerne Conway of Sarasota; three children, Thomas B. Conway of Washington, Jan C. Shapin of Newport, R.I., and Cynthia L. Conway of Sarasota; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      