
        Dr. Derek H. R. Barton, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for adding a third dimension to chemical analysis, which has been central to research on new drugs and chemicals for decades, died on Monday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 79.
        He had suffered a heart attack, said a spokesman for Texas A&M  University, where he was a professor of chemistry.
        Dr. Barton was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1972 but, by his choice, was known as Sir Derek only in England. He shared the Nobel Prize in 1969 with a Norwegian chemist, Dr. Odd Hassel of the University of Oslo.
        By adding a dimension to the analysis of compounds, Dr. Barton opened an area of chemistry called conformational analysis and altered the understanding of every organic molecule, said a colleague and former student, Dr. Ian Scott.
        ''This has led to a deeper understanding of many basic mechanisms, such as, for example, the formation of cholesterol in the human body, and the way all the molecules in life processes, including DNA, interact with each other,'' Dr. Scott said.
        Dr. Barton provided a theoretical framework that has become part of  computer programs used to design a drug, for example one that can attack a certain kind of bacterium.
        ''Embedded in every one of those graphics are Dr. Barton's principles,'' Dr. Scott said. ''He showed us what happens when the new drug hits the target.''
        Although a theoretical concept of three-dimensional molecules had existed before Dr. Barton's work, chemical analysis before his time ignored that approach and regarded the molecules that he studied in 1949 and 1950 as if they existed in a two-dimensional state in nature.
        Dr. Barton and Dr. Hassel concluded that the way organic compounds interacted was linked to the way they took on certain geometric configurations, mainly in shapes that look roughly like a boat or like a chair when they are diagrammed. They might bend, twist or fold over one another, depending on the conditions.
        When heat is applied to, say, a kind of sugar, its molecular arrangements can change from the boat pattern to the chair configuration.
        When a drug hits its target in the human body, the same thing happens. A penicillin molecule hitting the cell wall of a bacterium changes its molecular arrangement as it splits open the bacterium and kills it.
        ''All governed by Dr. Barton's principles,'' Dr. Scott said.
        Dr. Barton was born in Gravesend, Kent, in England, and received his bachelor of science degree in 1940 from the Imperial College of Science and Technology, part of the University of London. He received a doctorate in 1942 in organic chemistry and a D.Sc. degree in 1949, both from the Imperial College.
        During a year at Harvard, he wrote the work that led to his Nobel Prize as a modest four-page paper published in 1950.
        It extended the work of Dr. Hassell, who was working independent of Dr. Barton in Norway in the 1950's, and focused on large molecules, ones that have complicated ring systems and have important functions in life systems. Dr. Barton's approach explained the stability of certain molecular arrangements.
        His ideas about conformational chemistry soon became a standard part of the basic chemistry curriculum taught to undergraduates around the world and played a prominent role in chemical research for decades.
        In 1953, Dr. Barton went to work at Birkbeck College in London, then moved to Glasgow University in 1955, and to Imperial College in 1957, where he was chairman of the chemistry department until 1978. Then, he became director of the Institute for the Chemistry of Natural Substances at Gif-sur-Yvette, France. In 1986, he joined A&M.
        Dr. Barton and his first wife, Jeanne, were divorced. His second wife, Christiane, died in 1994.
        Dr. Barton is survived by his third  wife, Judy Cobb Barton; a son, William, who lives in England, and three grandchildren.
      