
        George W. Humphreys, a political adviser who worked in more than 80 election campaigns, all Republican except for his final one in Georgia,  died on Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and had lived in Atlanta since moving from Manhattan about a dozen years ago.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Henry L. Diamond, an old friend and the New York State Commissioner of Environmental Conservation in the Rockefeller administration.
        Mr. Humphreys was a regional director of the commission until his appointment as head of the New York Environmental Facilities Corporation.
        Mr. Humphreys's political work in New York began in the 1960's with Nelson A. Rockefeller, for whom he was an advance man. He also worked in the first mayoral campaign of Rudolph W. Giuliani until Mr. Giuliani changed his inner circle in the weeks before the election in 1989.
        At his death, Mr. Humphreys, whose political consulting offices were in Atlanta, was working on the gubernatorial campaign in Georgia for State Senator Steve Langford, a Democrat.
        Mr. Humphreys helped manage Governor Rockefeller's campaign for President in 1968 and his bid for re-election as Governor in 1970. The following year, Mr. Rockefeller named him assistant commissioner of environmental conservation for New York City affairs. The post was created as part of a departmental reorganization by the Governor.
        In 1973, Mr. Rockefeller appointed him to fill a three-year assignment as a director, chief executive and president of the Environmental Facilities Agency, a statewide corporation that assisted communities in tackling their environmental problems. Governor Rockefeller broadened its scope and put greater emphasis on the development of solid-waste disposal plants throughout the state.
        Mr. Humphreys continued to hold the position in the brief administration of Mr. Rockefeller's interim successor, Malcolm Wilson, who had been Lieutenant Governor. He took an unpaid leave in 1974 to be deputy campaign director when Governor Wilson ran for the office against the eventual winner, Hugh L. Carey.
        Mr. Humphreys was born in Whitewell, Tenn. He graduated in industrial management from Georgia Tech.
        He is survived by his wife, Grace Lewis Humphreys; three daughters, Elizabeth Smith, of Augusta, Ga., and Rena Lyle and Laurie Flatt of Atlanta; a son, George Jr. of Marietta, Ga.; a brother, Henry C. Jr. of Washington, N.C.; and four grandchildren.
      