
        Ramchandran Jaikumar, a professor at the Harvard Business School who specialized in computer-aided manufacturing, died on Feb. 10 in Quito, Ecuador.
        The cause was a heart attack suffered while mountain climbing, the school said. He was 53.
        Dr. Jaikumar focused on the study of flexible manufacturing systems, mainly using robots that can be adapted to perform different tasks. In an article in 1984, for example, he compared automated manufacturing systems in the United States and Japan, finding the American factories ''a desert of mediocrity.'' The Japanese systems, he found, were far more flexible, producing an average of 93 parts. The American systems, by contrast, made 10 parts.
        ''People were spending a lot of money to buy programmable systems that turned out not to be very flexible,'' said Roy D. Shapiro, the chairman of the Harvard technology and operations management department, where Dr. Jaikumar worked.
        In recent years, Dr. Jaikumar had studied the ''operating system'' of how factories are organized. He came to espouse a theory of ''minimalist'' designs for factories to prevent the disruptions that account for as much as 90 percent of production costs. For example, he said, plants should emphasize collecting data about ''things gone wrong'' on the factory floor, on the assumption that things that go well are already understood.
        Born in Madras, India, Dr. Jaikumar received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology. Later he received a master's degree in industrial engineering from Oklahoma State University and a doctorate in decision sciences from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
        An avid climber, Dr. Jaikumar had been a mountain guide in the Himalayas during college. In 1966, he was part of a group that climbed a 23,000-foot peak in the Himalayas. Last year, Dr. Jaikumar climbed a previously unconquered mountain in Greenland, earning him the right to name it. He chose Minarjnik, derived from the names of his wife, Mrinalini Mani, and two sons, Arjun and Nikhil. All of them live in West Newton, Mass. He is also survived by his mother, Leela Ramchandran, of Bangalore, India; his sister, Kripa Srintha, also of Bangalore, and two brothers, Raj Kumar, of New Delhi, and Vasant Kumar, of Seattle.
      