
        W. H. Conzen, the former chairman and chief executive of the Schering-Plough Corporation, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 84.
        The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter, Elizabeth Conzen Zellner.
        One of corporate America's most successful leaders, Mr. Conzen became chief executive of the Schering Corporation in 1966 and almost immediately led the company into one of its most prosperous periods. Determined to expand Schering's global presence, Mr. Conzen merged the company with Plough Inc. in 1971 and bought Scholl Inc., the foot-care company, in 1979.
        The moves turned Schering-Plough into one of Wall Street's greatest darlings of the day, with a growing array of prescription drugs and health care brands that ranged from Coppertone sun lotion to St. Joseph's aspirin for children.
        Schering-Plough's earnings rose 30 percent to 35 percent each year in the early 1970's. The gains were enough to increase the company's stock price from $46 a share in 1970 to $87.675 one year later.
        Born Willibalb Hermann Conzen in Dortmund, Germany, in 1913, he started his career with Schering A.G. of Berlin in 1931. He was transferred to Scherag Ltd., the company's subsidiary in Johannesburg, in 1938 and was named general manager in 1941.
        During World War II, the United States subsidiary of Schering A.G. was seized by the Federal Government and became the Schering Corporation U.S.A. In 1947, the Schering Corporation bought a majority interest in Scherag.
        In 1952, Mr. Conzen was appointed manager of Schering's International division, a stint that led to a corporate vice presidency seven years later. After serving as the general manager of the company's laboratory division, he became a senior vice president in 1965.
        Mr. Conzen became chief executive in 1966 after Schering's chairman, Francis C. Brown, was killed in an automobile accident.
        He served as chief executive for 12 years, stepping down in August 1978. Mr. Conzen remained chairman of the board until 1980 and a director until 1987.
        Mr. Conzen's first marriage, to Salome Bruwer, ended in divorce in 1982. He is survived by his daughters from the marriage, Ms. Zellner and Dr. Suzanne D. Conzen of Chicago. Mr. Conzen's son, Vincent, died of a brain hemorrhage four years ago.
        Mr. Conzen later married Shirley O'Neill, a partner in the law firm of Riker, Danzig, Scherer, Hyland & Perretti of Morristown, N.J. She died of lung cancer in July.
        Along with Ms. Zellner and Dr. Conzen, Mr. Conzen is survived by a sister, Elisabeth Conzen of Koblenz, Germany; two brothers, H. W. Conzen of Saulgau, Germany, and Johannes Conzen of Hohenschaftlarn, Germany, and four grandchildren.
      