
        Jack R. Howard, a newspaper heir who became a pioneer in broadcasting, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 87.
        The cause was pulmonary failure, said his son, Michael Balfe Howard.
        The son of Roy W. Howard, a founder of United Press, Mr. Howard was chairman of the Scripps Howard newspaper chain's broadcasting division for 39 years, expanding it from two radio stations in 1937 to six television stations and three radio stations at his retirement in 1976.
        Mr. Howard served as president of The E. W. Scripps Company, the parent company of the newspaper and broadcasting chains, from 1953 to 1976. His career was marked by his determination to set his own course and to bring the company his father helped establish into the fledgling field of broadcasting.
        ''Jack's one obsession,'' his father said in a 1949 interview, ''is not to be a Roy Howard Jr.''
        Born on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 1910, Mr. Howard attended Phillips Exeter Academy.
        He graduated from Yale University in 1932 and worked as reporter for The Japan Advertiser in Tokyo, The Shanghai Evening Post and the United Press wire service in Manchuria. He returned to the United States in 1933 and worked as a copy editor and a courthouse reporter for The Indianapolis Times. He then moved to The Washington Daily News, where he rose from police reporter to telegraph editor. In 1934, he married Barbara Balfe of New York City.
        Mr. Howard showed more interest in broadcasting than newspapers, his father's passion, and left Washington in 1936 to learn about broadcasting at one of Scripps Howard's two radio stations, KNOX in Knoxville, Tenn. The following year, he moved to New York to oversee the company's nascent radio division.
        In 1940, he convinced his father not to close The Rocky Mountain News, then a money-losing newspaper and now one of Denver's two leading dailies. During World War II, Mr. Howard served in the Navy and took part in landings at Leyte and Lingayen Gulfs in the Philippines.
        Returning to the United States, he was named executive vice president of the E. W. Scripps Company in 1946. His wife, Barbara, died in 1962, and in 1964 he married Eleanor Sallee Harris, an author, playwright and socialite who died last October.
        After his retirement, Mr. Howard helped found and served as president of the Scripps Howard Foundation, which distributes journalism awards and scholarships. A resident of Centre Island, N.Y., he was active in local politics and served as a town trustee for more than a decade.
        Mr. Howard is survived by his son, Michael, of Castle Rock, Colo., a daughter, Pamela Howard of Oyster Bay, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      