
        Michael Reardon, bartender to famous writers, mayors, journalists, stockbrokers, seamen, singers or any guy who dropped in off the street over the course of 30 years at the Lion's Head, a legendary species of New York bar that became extinct because people just didn't drink anymore the way they used to, died on Sunday in Fall River, Mass. He was 60.
        Mr. Reardon, who lived in Greenwich Village, died at the Rose Hawthorne Lathrop Home, where he was undergoing treatment for cancer, a family member said.
        Mr. Reardon was one of three owners of the Lion's Head bar and restaurant in the Village, and was managing it when it closed for good in 1996. ''I just couldn't keep up with everything,'' he said after his rent at 59 Christopher Street was raised.  ''As many of the older writers stopped drinking, the younger writers never took it up the same way,'' he said. ''The place got out of hand.''
        Pete Hamill was one of those well-known writers who in that sense let his old friend down -- another of those who, as Mike Reardon put it, ''gave up booze'' or moved to New Jersey.
        ''Mike should have been an archbishop,'' Mr. Hamill said. ''He was not bitter or angry and he had endless patience. He didn't have enough vanity, of course, to have been a bishop or pope, but he did understand sin and had that endless forgiveness, as you'd have to have to put up with that crowd all those years.''
        What this quintessential bartender had to put up with, among other things, was genuine first-class champion talkers. And although other patrons said Mr. Reardon himself was an excellent conversationalist, he was perforce a great listener.
        Consider the competition: There was the actor Rod Steiger, who picked up his mail at the Lion's Head but rarely took time to read it; there was Norman Mailer, who the regulars said always played James Cagney while he was there; there was Lanford Wilson, who when not talking was writing bits of plays on paper napkins; there was Jessica Lange, the actress, who legend had it was the second prettiest waitress on her shift there; there was Frank McCourt, who told endless stories about his Irish childhood before he wrote them in ''Angela's Ashes.''
        Not to mention Mayor John V. Lindsay, Mayor Edward I. Koch (''Actually, I never drank there. I don't drink. I just ate.''), Mayor David N. Dinkins, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, the singing Clancy Brothers, the echoes along the bar and the ghosts along the walls, behind the framed book jackets of more than 100 writers.
        In addition to being a strapping six-footer, Mr. Reardon was exceptionally handsome. This led him to one dramatic fling outside the Lion's Head. While Mr. Reardon was on busman's holiday sitting across from his usual side of the bar, an Italian film director came, took one look and before he knew it, the bartender was playing a detective in an Italian movie.
        ''But he never tried to turn that into a Hollywood career,'' Mr. Hamill said. ''He just liked being a bartender.''
        Mr. Reardon was born April 19, 1937, in Boston, a son of Helen and Edward Reardon, a manager of a trucking company. He graduated from Dorchester High School in 1954,  then served three years in the United States Army, becoming a medic with the paratroopers in Southeast Asia. He attended the Neighborhood Playhouse School of Acting in the 1960's, and did a few Off Off Broadway shows and the one movie.
        He is survived by a sister, Karen Reardon Silva of Plymouth, Mass.;  three brothers, Richard, of Brockton, Mass., Edward, of Ocala, Fla., George, of Lake Worth, Fla., and 15 nieces and nephews. Mr. Reardon was married twice, the first time to Virginia Damanski Reardon of Kingstown, R.I., and New York, and the second time to Marlene Diskin of New York. Both marriages ended in divorce.
      