
        Albert Wolff, believed to have been the last survivor of the Untouchables, the band of reputedly incorruptible Federal agents under Eliot Ness who waged war against Al Capone in Prohibition-era Chicago, died on Saturday at the Cedar Village nursing home in Mason, Ohio. He was 95.
        Battling gangland bootleggers as part of an elite unit whose exploits have become the stuff of legend, Mr. Wolff was armed with an assortment of revolvers and fortified by a personal code of honesty.
        ''I couldn't be corrupted,'' he once said. ''I wasn't born to sell out; I wasn't built that way. The pay wasn't good, but I wasn't forced to go on the job, I was happy to go on the job. There weren't many of my kind in the department in that era, and I was proud of it.''
        Although Mr. Wolff took part in raids on Capone's breweries and distilleries, he said he met Capone only once. But it was not at a raid, it was at Hot Springs, Ark., where Mr. Wolff had gone to take the baths for his arthritis. .
        Mr. Wolff said: ''He came over and said. 'So you are Wallpaper Wolff.'
        ''And I said to him, 'So you are Robin Hood.' The newspapers used to call him that because he gave charity baskets out at Christmas.''
        The son of a German-born doctor, Albert Harris Wolff was born and reared in Chicago and became interested in law enforcement through reading about the frontier justice of the Old West. After studying accounting at Northwestern University, Mr. Wolff became a bailiff's assistant, seizing merchandise from bankrupt companies for payment of court-ordered judgments.
        ''That's where I got my nickname,'' he said. ''When I went in, I would seize anything in sight, big and small. After a while people started to say I took everything but the wallpaper.''
        Mr. Wolff joined the Department of Justice's Bureau of Prohibition in 1928. His first assignments were foreign to the big-city life he knew. Sent to the Kentucky hills, he slept in snake-infested woods, waiting to raid stills at dawn. That, he said, was a lot more frightening than confronting Capone's henchmen would ever be.
        ''They'd wait for us in the trees with squirrel guns,'' he recalled.  ''The guys in the hills had no respect. They didn't care if we were Federal agents.''
        Mr. Wolff also worked for an underground Chicago agency known as the Secret Six, a group of prominent businessmen who formed under the direction of a Justice Department official in 1929 to counter the gangs spawned by Prohibition.
        ''We got informers, we tapped people's telephones,'' Mr. Wolff recalled in an interview for ''American Tapestry'' (Pharos Books, 1988) by Tom Tiede. ''It had a lot to do with bootlegging then, but we also handled prostitution, extortion and all the rest of it.''
        Mr. Wolff was then assigned to the unit that would be called the Untouchables, its members supposedly immune to bribery.
        The Bureau of Prohibition, created  to enforce the dry laws enacted under the 18th Amendment, had been plagued by corruption, its agents often tempted by bribes from gangsters.
        In 1929, Eliot Ness, a 26-year-old Prohibition agent, won permission to form a small squad -- 10 to 15 honest men -- who would work with the Secret Six to smash the Capone gang.
        Mr. Wolff was assigned to the unit and came to know Ness well. He would recall that Ness ''was a very passive fellow'' around him because Mr. Wolff had more experience in law enforcement.
        At first, Mr. Wolff conducted undercover operations. He said he maintained a normal family life at the time, although ''I took out all the insurance I could afford.''
        He once bought liquor from a floating saloon, a boat in the Chicago River, and then seized the boat and arrested everybody aboard. His closest brush with calamity came when he blocked a truck carrying beer. The driver, who thought Mr. Wolff was a rival gang member, pointed a shotgun at his ear, then dropped it when Mr. Wolff showed his badge.
        He later joined Ness in full-scale raids after it became clear that at least one of his fellow Untouchables was eminently touchable.
        ''Police corruption is as old as the world, and I think the Untouchables had some,'' Mr. Wolff said. ''My cover was broken once and for all when one of the agents took my picture during a raid, and it was distributed.''
        He also suspected that fellow agents sometimes tipped off gangsters to raids. One time, the Untouchables burst into a brewery at 62d Street and Cottage Grove, but took  no prisoners. ''We didn't find anybody working there,'' he said.
        Mr. Wolff worked in Federal law enforcement through World War II, once posing as a butcher to catch people misusing ration stamps. He then went into the restaurant business and engaged in real estate ventures in Chicago.
        He is survived by two sons, Howard of Northfield, Ill., and Robert, of California; a daughter, Gloria Annenberg, of Cincinnati, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        With the passage of the years, the Untouchables' deeds grew larger and larger. Ness collaborated with the journalist Oscar Fraley to write his memoir, ''The Untouchables,'' published in 1957. That book was the basis for the television series of the early 1960's starring Robert Stack and the 1987 movie in which Kevin Costner played Ness and Robert DeNiro portrayed Capone.
        Mr. Wolff was back in action for the movie as a technical adviser who showed Mr. Costner how to wield a gun.
        But he remained one of the Untouchables in spirit.
        When Paramount Pictures asked him to critique a screening of the movie, he took exception to a scene in which Ness confronted Capone on a Chicago street. ''You didn't just bump into someone like Capone on the street,'' he explained.
        Paramount executives did not care for that aspect of his review, he said. But, as Mr. Wolff pointed out soon afterward: ''I said what I had to. I always tell the truth. I don't just go along with things; I'm an honest man.''
      