
        Carl G. Sontheimer, a creative electronics engineer and successful entrepreneur who made his most visible contribution to the American economy -- and American kitchens -- after his retirement, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83 and known as the man who revolutionized American cooking by bringing the Cuisinart to the United States.
        His family said the cause was respiratory failure.
        It's a shudder to think what would have happened -- or not happened -- to American cooking if Mr. Sontheimer had taken up golf.
        There he was in 1971, a 57-year-old Massachusetts Institute of Technology graduate who had invented an array of technical devices, including a microwave direction finder that went to the moon, and started and sold two electronics companies, giving him the wherewithal to enjoy a well-deserved life of leisure. And he was bored.
        So bored, in fact, that almost as soon as he had sold his last company, Anzac Electronics, in 1966, and completed a three-year consulting contract with the new owner, he had begun casting around for a new venture, among other things considering and rejecting a flier in home security systems.
        Then, drawing on a lifelong passion for French food and French cooking, he decided to try to combine business with pleasure by finding French products suitable for an American franchising operation.
        So Mr. Sontheimer, a native New Yorker who had grown up in France, where his father represented an American company, headed back to France in 1971 with his wife, Shirley, on a scouting trip.
        It was there, at a French cookery show, that he spotted it, an ungainly but versatile machine designed to process food for restaurants. A sort of glorified blender whose multiple attachments allowed it to cut, slice, knead, chop, dice, grate, grind or even blend, it had been manufactured by a French restaurant supply giant, Robot-Coupe, for eight years, but Mr. Sontheimer immediately saw its possibilities for the home kitchen, specifically his.
        As he told his wife, the machine would be ideal for making quenelles, those French delicacies whose meat or fish bases had to be chopped to a fare-thee-well, then laboriously forced through a sieve to achieve the proper consistency.
        Moving swiftly, Mr. Sontheimer and his wife concluded an agreement to distribute a modified version of the commercial machine in the United States, then came up with the name that would soon become a household word.
        ''He always thought of French cooking as an art and he wanted it to be based on the word, 'cuisine,' '' his wife said yesterday in explaining how they had come up with Cuisinart.
        It was not until January 1973 that the Cuisinart was introduced at a show in Chicago, and for all its French lineage, the product had more than just an American touch. No wonder. Mr. Sontheimer had spent more than a year modifying virtually every component.
        But then Mr. Sontheimer was never one to leave well enough alone, especially when it came to food. There was the time, for example, when he suffered such cuisine shock eating the food at his M.I.T. fraternity after years of fine dining in France that he went into the kitchen to help put things right.
        He continued his interest in cooking throughout his varied career, which included stints with RCA and Maguire Industries before he founded the forerunner of Trak Electronics in 1947 and then, after selling his Trak stake in 1960, establishing Anzac to develop and manufacture precision microwave systems.
        Along the way he studied French cooking in New York and became friends with James Beard, the enormous cooking master he only occasionally resembled. At a bit more than 6 feet tall, Mr. Sontheimer would periodically trim down to portly.
        For all the Sontheimer improvements, the expensive Cuisinart sold sluggishly until 1975 when a rave review in Gourmet magazine and endorsements from Mr. Beard and others touched off a stampede of sales and created a new industry.
        As Cuisinart sales soared, a host of competitors offered similar food processors, but although the clones were generally much less expensive, Cuisinart's acknowleded edge in quality, a Sontheimer obsession, led to a marketing anomaly in which the most expensive machine was the biggest seller.
        The road to Cuisinart success was not always smooth. After winning permission from Robot-Coupe to use other suppliers, for example, Mr. Sontheimer created an improved model and had it manufactured in Japan, a move that led Robot-Coupe to market its own model in the United States, but without success.
        There was also his battle with Zabar's, the Manhattan specialty food store, which sold Cuisinarts at such a deep discount that Mr. Sontheimer cut off the store's supply until his efforts ran afoul of Federal and state laws, leading to a $250,000 fine.
        Partly because of fresh competition from Sunbeam's Oskar and other cheap, miniature processors, Cuisinart's sales declined in the 1980's, but when he and his wife sold the company to an investment group in 1987 the price was $42 million. The company is now owned by Conair.
        After that, Mr. Sontheimer did not seek any more bold new ventures, but the man who never played golf didn't exactly retire. He continued to maintain an office in Greenwich to manage his real estate and other investments and he helped produce two cookbooks, ''Classic Cakes and Other Great Cuisinart Desserts,'' and ''The Pleasure of Cooking Fruits and Vegetables,'' both based on recipes from his acclaimed magazine, The Pleasure of Cooking.
        And, of course, he continued to cook.
        Shortly before he entered the hospital two weeks ago, his wife recalled yesterday, he had turned out a delicious rack of lamb.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children from a previous marriage, Peter and Henry, of Gettysburg, Pa., Katherine Rovine of Elkins Park, Md., and Barbara Young of Monroe, Conn.; a sister, Eleanor Tichner of New Canaan, Conn.; 10 grandchildren, and 3 great-granchildren.
      