
        Bernard Meltzer, the folksy foggy-voiced radio personality who built a huge following in the 20 years that he dispensed advice over WOR-AM in New York on virtually every known problem and every conceivable subject, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 81 and widely regarded as the father of ''expert talk radio.''
        His wife said the cause was complications from pneumonia.
        ''Remember,'' the announcer intoned, ''Dr. Meltzer is not an attorney.''
        Come to think of it, his doctorate -- a mail-in degree in philosophy, economics and finance from the unaccredited Columbia Pacific University in California -- was not all that kosher, either.
        Never mind. When Dr. Meltzer spoke, people listened, and with such rapt attention and in such numbers -- almost 600,000 listeners an hour at his peak in the mid-80's -- that he was on the air for 23 hours a week, from 3 to 6 on weekday afternoons and 10 to 2 on weekends until 1993.
        What they heard when they tuned into his program, ''What's Your Problem?'' was an engaging grandfatherly presence who sometimes mispronounced words or garbled syntax but who addressed bereaved widows as ''Mother,'' included a prayer on every program and instilled such confidence with his wide-ranging expertise and common-sense wisdom that at a time when WOR sold commercials for $350 a minute, the fee was $500 if Dr. Meltzer, himself, read them.
        For all that, the personal touch could be quite a bargain, especially if Dr. Meltzer departed from the text, as he frequently did. When he got wound up, an ad-libbed 60-second ad could last for two and a half minutes.
        An eclectic expert, Dr. Meltzer had a legitimate degree in civil engineering from City College and a master's in economics and city planning from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Meltzer, who was born in Manhattan, liked to say that he was born in the shadow of the Williamsburg Bridge and that his immigrant father had delivered seltzer from a wagon on the Lower East Side. By the time he joined WOR in 1973, Dr. Meltzer had worked as an engineer, a real estate contractor, a property evaluator and an investment analyst. He had taught real estate, finance and economics as an adjunct professor at the University of Pennsylvania and was chairman of the Philadelphia Planning Commission.
        He also made a surprising name for himself as a radio personality. In a story he loved to tell, Dr. Meltzer, who had been a frequent guest on a number of Philadelphia programs, was pressed into service in 1967 as an emergency replacement for a departing host on WCAU. On his first day, he mispronounced so many sponsors' names, mangled so much ad copy and generally gave such a dismal performance that the station manager fired him on the spot, only to rescind the dismissal after learning from his supervisors that listeners had flooded the station switchboard and his sponsors' telephone lines with adoring calls.
        When he moved to New York almost six years later, Dr. Meltzer proved even more popular. Although only a handful of callers could get through on a program, hundreds of thousands of others hung on his every word as he advised on mortgages, leaky basements, Medicaid, feuding neighbors, retirement plans, recalcitrant children and philandering husbands, or, as Dr. Meltzer put it, ''everything from affairs of the heart to affairs of the pocketbook.''
        It was not uncommon for a caller to begin by saying that he had been trying to get through for years, apparently realizing that whatever long-forgotten problem had prompted the effort another one would surely have popped up by the time the caller got through and could wheedle a signature T-shirts.
        Except for personal appearances and a brief television stint that his friend Joe Franklin had him do on WOR-TV in the early 70's, Dr. Meltzer was largely unseen, which meant that he could move around unnoticed, at least until he opened his mouth.
        His wife, Meredith, recalled yesterday that she and her husband, who loved Broadway musicals, opera and ballet, would be eating at a restaurant or on a cruise when someone at the next table hear his distinctive voice and say with startled delight, ''Why, you're Bernard Meltzer.''
        In addition to his wife, who lives in Long Branch, N.J., he is survived by four children from a previous marriage, Melinda Jacobs of Milburn, N.J., Cynthia Weller of Philadelphia, Lesley Silverstein of Washington and Michael Meltzer of Westport, Conn.; two sisters, Rae Fieldman and Dora Glatter of Brooklyn, and eight grandchildren.
      