
        Ferdinand Porsche, creator of the German sports car that bore his family name and son of the legendary engineer who designed the Volkswagen Beetle, died yesterday at his family's vacation home in the Austrian resort town of Zell am See. He was 88.
        Mr. Porsche, known as Ferry, and his father, also named Ferdinand, were symbols of the ambitious breed of German industrialists who thrived under the Nazis and then rose phoenix-like from the ashes of wartime defeat. A younger generation fought so much among themselves, however, that the family's sports car company stumbled badly. But Mr. Porsche lived just long enough to see his business regain financial health.
        Porsche A. G., founded by Ferry's father, who was a close friend of Adolf Hitler, grew rich on military contracts until Allied bombs obliterated the factories that turned out its designs. In the aftermath of World War II, Ferry Porsche decided to defy conventional wisdom and build a luxury sports car in a nation so prostrated that its inhabitants could barely afford motorcycles. Within a few years, his sports car reached the pinnacle of the automotive trade, and has remained there in the eyes of many discerning critics.
        With recognition came immense wealth: The Porsche family fortune is estimated at more than $3 billion. But sibling rivalry flared among the third generation of Porsches. Their business feuds and extramarital affairs earned them a reputation in the tabloid press as the ''Ewings of Germany.'' Their bickering grew so intolerable that Ferry Porsche, who had become the company's supervisory board chairman, expelled them from management of the family company.
        The outsiders he brought in to run the company have achieved a mixed record over the last couple of decades. But contrary to rumors from time to time that it would be sold, Porsche has remained the only major independent sports-car maker in the world.
        Ferry Porsche (pronounced PORSH-ah, never PORSH) was born on Sept. 19, 1909, in Wiener-Neustadt, Austria. After World War I, the Porsches moved permanently to Stuttgart, where his father was appointed chief engineer of Daimler-Benz, manufacturer of the Mercedes cars. Before learning to ride a bicycle, Ferry already had his first automobile accident. While sitting on his father's lap behind the wheel of a car, he drove it into a wall.
        A Special Tie With the Fuhrer
        At age 12 he displayed his precocious, coldly analytical knowledge of automobile technology during a race in which a driver on the Daimler-Benz team was killed. ''I was fascinated by seeing a race-car crash for the first time, and I watched everything that went on until the wreckage came to a final stop,'' Mr. Porsche wrote in his autobiography, ''Cars Are My Life.'' ''The rest of the crew were so horrified they turned away. So I was the only one able to describe accurately just what had happened to the car.'' Examination of the wreckage, he said, bore out his insistence that the crash had been caused by the collapse of a tire wheel.
        Another road race, in 1925, changed the destiny of the Porsches. It was there that the older Porsche, who was in charge of the Daimler-Benz car team, first met Hitler, a racing buff who was still at an early stage in his rise to power.
        As Chancellor eight years later, Hitler decreed that the German auto industry should help make the superiority of Nazism manifest by designing the fastest race cars in the world.
        For Ferdinand Porsche, who had started his own consulting and design firm, this soon translated into lucrative contracts with the big German manufacturers. And in 1934, Ferdinand was asked by Hitler to build a ''people's car'' -- the Volkswagen -- that the working class could afford.
        Within months, father and son  patched together the first prototype in the garage of their Stuttgart home. Hitler enthusiastically approved of the car, and with his backing, a factory was erected. But mass production of the Volkswagen was postponed because of war.
        The Porsches reveled in their special relationship with the Fuhrer. Ferry asserted in his memoirs that his father was one of only ''a half- dozen men in all of Germany who dared to speak their minds openly before Hitler.'' And Ferry, himself, described the Nazi leader as ''simpatico if you knew him personally.''
        The Porsches responded to Hitler's military needs with all the fervor they could muster. Their design offices and factories churned out jeep-type vehicles, Tiger tanks, airplane engines and parts for the V-1 flying bomb. When Ferry's young son, Butzi, asked him why he was not in the army like all the other fathers, he responded, ''Just imagine, if we were all soldiers, who would design and build the tanks and all the other weapons?''
        Like so many German industrialists, Ferry Porsche disclaimed moral responsibility for the uglier aspects of his involvement with the Third Reich. Though he was an honorary officer in the SS, he insisted that he accepted the appointment, personally made by SS Chief Heinrich Himmler, only because ''there was no way I could refuse.''
        And his description in his autobiography of Russian war prisoners at the Porsche factory almost sounded benign: ''These men were scooped up in huge numbers during our initial advances in the Russian campaign of 1941-42, and no records were kept of them. But in all, I would estimate that some 15,000 to 20,000 people found employment there.''
        He neglected to mention that they were there as slave laborers, in violation of Geneva conventions on the treatment of war prisoners.
        The Porsches were never brought to trial for their wartime roles. In a murky affair, the elder Ferdinand Porsche and his son-in-law, Anton Piech, were taken prisoner by the French and accused of war crimes, though the real reason for their arrest seems to have been an attempt to force them to collaborate with the French auto industry. In his autobiography, Ferry Porsche said that one million francs were paid by his family to French officials as a sort of ransom to secure the release of his father and brother-in-law after 17 months' imprisonment and to have all war crimes charges against them dropped.
        After the war, the Porsches suffered a setback when their contract to produce the Volkswagen was rescinded by the new democratic Government of Konrad Adenauer. Volkswagen was made into an independent company, but Mr. Piech was appointed its first chairman.
        Even before his father's death in 1951, Ferry had taken control of Porsche operations. It was at his insistence that the company started to build its own cars, instead of just designing vehicles for other manufacturers. The first automobile to carry the Porsche label was the 356 roadster. Designed by Ferry himself and put into production in 1950, it had an engine almost at mid-chassis to lend greater stability.
        A Business Strategy That Defied Logic
        The notion of creating a new, expensive sports car in a country left impoverished by war seemed irrational from a business point of view. But Ferry had a remarkably effective strategy. He was offering an automobile that could be driven both in competition and in urban traffic. The formula has held for more than 40 years.
        ''I've always sold the Porsche as the kind of vehicle you can enter into a grand prix one day and drive your kid to kindergarten in the next,'' said Bob Snodgrass, a longtime Florida-based Porsche dealer.
        To quickly raise Porsche's profile on and off the race track, Ferry hired German aristocrats as his drivers. ''These were the people who had money after the war,'' said Helmuth Bott, a former ranking executive at Porsche. ''And they were 'gentlemen drivers,' the same way their ancestors had been gentlemen horsemen.''
        Word spread quickly that Porsche was a high-tech symbol of a renascent Germany. Everybody noticed it was a Porsche -- not a Mercedes or BMW -- that scooped up Alfried von Krupp, the arms industrialist convicted of war crimes at the Nuremberg trials, when he walked out of prison in 1951. ''Alfried was so impressed by the car's performance, design or whatever, that he decided to buy one,'' Ferry recalled. ''And I would say he was our truest customer until his death,'' in 1967.
        Porsche was taken up by the nobility elsewhere in the world. Prince Bertil of Sweden jilted his old Bugattis for a 356. Prince Abd el Moneim of Egypt bought a new model almost every year. And the princes of Hollywood became avid owners.
        Even tragedy fueled the Porsche mystique: On Sept. 30, 1955, the actor James Dean was killed when his Porsche Spyder 550, a limited-series racing car, struck another vehicle in California, linking his name with Porsche for eternity.
        Porsche's racing acumen brought the car a windfall of free publicity, by word of mouth and in the sports pages. But racing was also the crucible that kept Porsche a technological step ahead of other sports cars. To win races, it was necessary to constantly come up with new ideas about design, fuel efficiency and safety, as well as ways to produce more power from smaller engines.
        And since the Porsche on the grand prix course was pretty much the same one sold on the streets, any improvements in the racing models were soon grafted onto the vehicles in the showrooms. Anti-lock disk brakes, rollbars, higher torque engines, intake and exhaust manifolds, extra wastegate tailpipes -- and a lot of other equipment that sounded exotic to people who confined their driving experiences to sedans and station wagons -- seemed to appear on Porsches earlier than on other cars.
        When his father died, Ferry received half the shares of Porsche. The other 50 percent went to his older sister, Louise, whose husband, Mr. Piech, the chairman of Volkswagen, died in 1954. Louise agreed to let Ferry run Porsche, but she insisted that her own children be given as much chance as Ferry's sons to take the helm when the time came for him to step down.
        Two of the Children Are Singled Out
        Louise and Ferry each had four children, and for business as well as emotional reasons, they were determined to create a close-knit clan. Though mega-millionaires, they remained largely aloof to German society outside Stuttgart. While other rich Germans relaxed under the sun of Marbella, Spain, and Palm Beach, Fla., the Porsches and Piechs preferred alpine vacations that required raincoats. They often took the waters at Badgastein, the same Austrian spa where Ferry and Louise stayed as children.
        Only two of the children in the Porsche-Piech clan appeared to have the talent and commitment necessary to eventually take over the family business: Ferry's son Butzi and Louise's son Ferdinand. The cousins, still in their 20's, pooled their talents to create the Porsche 911, among the most acclaimed sports cars of all time. Introduced in 1963, its original silhouette remains recognizable after more than three decades of modifications, and it continues to be the best-selling Porsche model by far, despite also being the priciest (with accessories and options, it can cost more than $100,000).
        But the 911's very success fueled the rivalry between the cousins, as each sought to take the lion's share of credit for the car. The arguments spilled over to the other siblings and their parents. Eventually, Ferry and Louise agreed that their children despised each other so much that they would never be able to share leadership of the company.
        ''After I ascertained that the necessary harmony and cooperation could not be created,'' Ferry explained in his autobiography, ''I drew the inevitable conclusion and said, 'Then nobody's going to be boss!' ''
        In 1972, Ferry and Louise banished their children from management and restructured Porsche into a public corporation. Ordinary shares were offered to outsiders for the first time, but all voting stock remained within the family -- divided in roughly equal proportions among Ferry, Louise and their children.
        The restructuring of Porsche did not end the family feuding, however, and the confrontations soon seeped down into management. ''It was difficult to keep the Porsches and Piechs marching in step to reach the necessary accommodations to manage,'' said Peter Shutz, a former Porsche chairman. If Ferry and Butzi Porsche pushed an idea, Louise and Ferdinand Piech were inclined to oppose it. And the clan's arguments often became public knowledge. For example, when Porsche introduced its 928 model some years ago, Ferdinand derided it in the press as being overpriced.
        Since the quarrels at Porsche were so intimately linked to family rivalries, it was not altogether surprising that board room drama spilled into the bedroom. Ferdinand Piech moved in with the wife of one of his cousins, and she bore him two children out of wedlock. The scandal grew when Ferdinand married the children's nanny.
        Even if family harmony had existed, the Porsche company would have been hard pressed to maintain its edge over new sports car rivals. Porsche sales reached a peak in 1986, when almost 50,000 of its vehicles were bought around the world, including more than 30,000 in the United States. But this was largely a function of the booming 1980's and the favorable exchange rate -- almost three marks to a dollar, versus about 1.60 marks to a dollar a decade later. In fact, in the mid-1980's, the cheapest Porsche could be bought in the United States for less than $20,000.
        Then came the stock market crash of October 1987, and sales, especially in America, began to plummet. By 1993, only 21,000 Porsches were sold, including a humiliating total of just 4,100 in the United States. A new tide of Japanese sports cars, nearly on a technological par with Porsches but far less expensive, took over much of the market. Rumors abounded that Porsche would go the way of other sports-car manufacturers -- Jaguar, Ferrari, Lotus -- and be bought out by a larger auto maker seeking to fill a niche in its line of models.
        The turnaround came in recent years after Ferry, already in his 80's, got the Porsche-Piech clan to agree to the appointment of a hard-driving young engineer, Wendelin Wiedeking, as Porsche chairman. Mr. Wiedeking hired Japanese consultants to rip apart and refashion a company that was supposed to be the paradigm of German manufacturing excellence. On their recommendation, the Porsche work force was slashed to about 6,000, from more than 9,000, and six layers of management were compressed into four. Meanwhile, productivity rose sharply.
        By 1996, Profits Are Rolling In Again
        By 1996, Porsche began making profits again, after four consecutive years of losses, and talk of a takeover ceased. A new, cheaper model, called the Boxster, was put in the showrooms to go along with the top-of-the-line 911's. Fitted with a mid-chassis engine, the Boxster is a throwback to the original Porsche sports car designed by Ferry.
        In his last few years, Ferry Porsche dropped by his factory on the outskirts of Stuttgart once or twice a week. Just as he had for the last half-century, he continued to mark the pre-Lent Carnival festivities, the high point of his social season, by dressing up as Charlie Chaplin.
        A short, stocky man, Ferry Porsche was invariably described by associates as soft spoken and humble. His one affectation was his insistence on being addressed by intimates as ''the professor.'' Although he never went to college, he made sure, after he was awarded an honorary degree in the early 1970's, that his name in print was preceded by ''Professor Dr.'' or ''Dr. Engineer.''
        His wife of 50 years, the former Dorothea Reitz, known as Dodo, died in 1985.
        Mr. Porsche is survived by his sister and by his four children, all of whom live in Austria: Butzi, who after being edged out of the car company, began his own successful consumer products design company, called Porsche Design; Peter, who was also forced out of the company and then became a partner in Butzi's firm; Wolfgang Heinz, another Porsche exile, who became the largest importer of motorcycles in Austria, and Gerhard Anton, who is a farmer. He is also survived by a number of grandchildren.
        His nephew, Ferdinand Piech, was the only member of the Porsche clan to reach greater heights in the German automobile industry. He is chairman of Volkswagen, the post first occupied by his father after World War II.
      