
        Arthur Stanley Link, whose prodigious 35-year effort editing the papers of Woodrow Wilson set the standard for the presentation of historical documents, died of lung cancer on Thursday at the Bermuda Village Health Center in Advance, N.C. He was 77 and widely regarded as the foremost authority on the 28th President.
        If Professor Link had done his work with the aid of computers, in which oceans of data can be shunted and rearranged at the stroke of a few keys, his achievement would have been considered extraordinary. After all, until the 69th and final volume of ''The Papers of Woodrow Wilson'' appeared in 1983, no person or group  had ever fully amassed, ordered, and annotated all of the papers of a President. But since Professor Link's accomplishment was attained with nothing more than pens, paper, a typewriter and index cards, it approaches the stuff of legend.
        Day after day, year after year since 1958, Mr. Link would rise at 5:30 in the morning and search for, read and assess hundreds of thousands of documents that would eventually fill the volumes that Princeton University Press published at $65 each. Princeton has sold almost 100,000 of them, an extraordinary number for this sort of work. At his desk, the same one that Wilson had used when he was president of Princeton, Professor Link wrote each of the long footnotes that explained the context of a particular letter or document, linking it to material that came before or would come later.
        While he was assiduously building this minutely detailed yet comprehensible record of Wilson's life, he was also teaching a full course load at Princeton, writing more than 30 books, including a five-volume biography of Wilson, and indulging passions for eclectic reading and opera. He did not exercise, suffered chronic back problems and smoked from his late teens until his last illness, but he read the classics, particularly the works of the prolific Anthony Trollope, which he would read through until he finished them and then would start again. Clearly, he admired marathons and marathoners.
        John Little, who spent 31 years as the associate editor of the Wilson project, said Mr. Link was ''the living embodiment of the Protestant work ethic.'' Mr. Link's son, William A. Link, a historian at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, said he thought that his father's commitment and compulsions were rooted in his belief in an objective history that could be pursued and discovered through hard work.
        ''He always got up early, but I don't remember him staying up late working,'' William Link said of his father. ''I think he was able to do as much as he did because of his extraordinary powers of concentration. When he was working, nothing could  distract him.''
        One of the innovations that Professor Link brought to the Wilson project was careful annotation, which he insisted should be carried out in such a way that ''even a high school student can read it and understand it.'' Another departure from previous practice was the inclusion of letters and documents not written either to or by Wilson, but that nonetheless had a bearing on his actions. Such approaches have since become standard in documentary editing.
        Phyllis Marchand, the Mayor of Princeton Township, remembered that when she worked for Professor Link as an indexer on the project, he would insist that she check and double-check every detail. Once, she recalled, when she timidly suggested that perhaps they could use the computers that were becoming available, the professor said, ''Why would we ever want to do that?''
        Professor Link, the son of a Lutheran minister who became an active Presbyterian churchman himself, would sometimes resort to religious images of duty and predestination to describe his labors. He once said he suffered from the Presbyterian disease, which he defined as ''too much backbone,'' and he described his work on the Wilson papers to  Terry Teachout, in an article about him in The New York Times Book Review, this way: ''I believe God created me to do this. Not many people in this day and age would think there was such a thing as a divine call, but I do, and I had it.''
        In its temporal form, that call came in 1958, when Mr. Link, then a professor at Northwestern, was asked by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation to oversee the publication of the papers. By that time, he had written the first two volumes of his Wilson biography, winning the Bancroft Prize for American history for the second one.
        Mr. Link, who was born on Aug. 8, 1920, in New Market, Va., 50 miles from Wilson's birthplace in Staunton, then followed him to Princeton, where in addition to the editing job he insisted on teaching. At Northwestern, George McGovern had been one of his students; at Princeton, Bill Bradley was another.
        ''I thought the project would take about 20 years,'' the historian recalled. As he supervised the papers, he also managed to produce three more volumes of his biography, and received another Bancroft Prize for ''The Struggle for Neutrality,'' which he wrote in 1960. But, even with his remarkable energies, he eventually stopped short of the projected eight volumes of his Wilson biography to devote himself fully to the editing of the Presidential papers.
        One thing that helped him was his fondness for his subject. He had been inspired to look into Wilson's career  by Fletcher Green, one of his professors at the University of North Carolina, and though his early writings were critical of Wilson for demanding overly harsh reparations from a defeated Germany after  World War I, he soon warmed to the man. Despite his commitment to objective history, he even spoke of the President in hagiographic terms: ''I've read a lot of history in my life, and I think that aside from St. Paul, Jesus and the great religious prophets, Woodrow Wilson was the most admirable character I've ever encountered in history.''
        Professor Link's wife, Margaret, to whom he dedicated the first of his books and to whom he was married for 50 years, died in 1996. In addition to his son William, he is survived by two other sons, Dr. A. Stanley Link Jr. of Winston-Salem, N.C., and  James Douglas Link of Flemington, N.J.; a daughter, Margaret Link Weil of Chapel Hill, N.C., and four grandchildren.
        After he had found his calling, Professor Link was delighted that he never stopped finding Woodrow Wilson a rich subject and a congenial companion. ''Most of the Hitler and Stalin scholars I know,'' he said, ''are depressed people.''
      