
        Daniel Massey, a stylish and versatile actor who performed with equal ease in plays by Shaw, Wilde and Pinter as well as in Broadway musicals and was for many years an important member of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National Theater, died on Wednesday in a London hospital. He was 64.
        He had been suffering from Hodgkin's disease and died of heart failure, said his agent, Wim Hance.
        Mr. Massey, a member of a distinguished acting family -- his parents were Raymond Massey and Adrianne Allen, and his sister is Anna Massey -- made his last stage appearance in Ronald Harwood's ''Taking Sides,'' which was presented in London in 1995 and on Broadway the next year.
        An actor in the classic tradition, he had a commanding stage presence: tall, limber, expressive, filled with charm and with a rich mellow voice (whether speaking or singing). His musical career ran from the original Broadway production of ''She Loves Me'' (1963) to the Broadway version of ''Gigi'' (1973) to the 1987 London revival of Stephen Sondheim's ''Follies,'' in which he played opposite Diana Rigg.
        Although he played a variety of roles in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, he specialized in comedy, bringing his own life force to plays by Shaw in London while also appearing  there in Neil Simon's ''Barefoot in the Park.''
        In one season at Stratford-on-Avon, he did a delightful double act. He played Sir Anthony Aguecheek in ''Twelfth Night'' as an impetuous bumbler, arms and mind akimbo, and he was also a salesman of hope in a last-chance saloon in William Saroyan's ''Time of Your Life.'' As he often demonstrated, he could be convincingly American onstage.
        By choice, he was principally known as a stage actor, but he also worked in films and on television, where he did everything from a character in the ''Inspector Morse'' mystery series to Trotsky in Robert Duvall's ''Stalin'' (in 1992).
        Mr. Massey's father was Canadian, his mother English. An uncle, Vincent, was Governor General of Canada. He was born in London. His parents divorced when he was 6. His father went to the United States, where he became a star onstage and on screen, perpetually identified with the title role in ''Abe Lincoln in Illinois.''
        He stayed in England with his mother, who was a star in London and on Broadway. Noel Coward was his godfather, and at the age of 9 he played Coward's son in the film ''In Which We Serve.'' Many years later, in 1968, Mr. Massey played Coward in the movie ''Star!'' (opposite Julie Andrews as Gertrude Lawrence). For that role, he received an Academy Award nomination.
        The main reason for becoming an actor, he said in an interview in 1996,  was seeing Ralph Richardson play Falstaff: ''I can remember the whole thing photographically, and at the end of it had to be peeled out of my chair. I was only 11, but I still think it was the best piece of theater I've ever seen.''
        After graduating from Eton, he went to Cambridge University, where he acting in plays and musical revues. He made his Broadway debut in 1956 in Robert E. Sherwood's ''Small War on Murray Hill,'' and returned to London for ''The Happiest Millionaire.'' His breakthrough came with his performance as the lovestruck clerk (opposite Barbara Cook) in ''She Loves Me.'' He followed that Broadway success by playing Mark Antony in ''Julius Caesar'' at the Royal Court Theater in London.
        In the 1960's he was in John Gielgud's revival of ''The School for Scandal'' and Michael Redgrave's production of ''A Month in the Country,'' while also playing Jack Worthing in ''The Importance of Being Earnest.'' During the next decade he portrayed Lytton Strachey in Peter Luke's ''Bloomsbury,'' and later joined the National Theater.
        In 1978 he was incisive as the husband in Peter Hall's premiere production of Mr. Pinter's ''Betrayal'' (playing opposite Penelope Wilton and Michael Gambon).
        Mr. Massey and Ms. Wilton, who was his second wife, later starred in a full-length production of ''Man and Superman'' at the National Theater, with Mr. Massey authoritative in the demanding central role of Jack Tanner.
        In 1992, Mr. Massey returned to Shaw in an all-star revival of ''Heartbreak House'' (with Paul Scofield, Vanessa Redgrave and Felicity Kendal). In England, he was regarded as one of the finest Shavian actors.
        His marriage to Ms. Wilton ended in divorce as did his first marriage, to the actress Adrienne Corri. Mr. Massey is survived by his third wife,  Ms. Wilton's sister, Lindy Wilton; a son, Paul, and a daughter, Alice, as well as his sister.
        In 1993, he returned to the Royal Shakespeare Company to play Don Adriano in ''Love's Labour's Lost.'' Two years later he acted in ''Taking Sides.'' Looking aged and gaunt, he played Wilhelm Furtwangler, the German orchestra conductor who was accused of collaborating with the Nazis.
        With flamboyant gestures said to resemble Furtwangler's, he seemed to be conducting his own performance. Mr. Massey's masterly characterization of the imperious conductor was the direct opposite of his ebullient personification of the shy clerk in ''She Loves Me.'' Together, the two roles illustrate the arc of the actor's wide-ranging career.
      