
        James Lee Hymes Jr., a national authority on early education who taught generations of parents and teachers how to raise and teach preschoolers and first graders, died on March 6 at El Camino Hospital in Cupertino, Calif. He was 84 and lived in the Cupertino retirement community of the Forum at Rancho San Antonio.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Hymes learned his trade when he managed an around-the-clock nursery school program during World War II for the children of women who built Liberty ships in three shifts at shipyards in Oregon. He became a household name in the decades that followed as the author of numerous pamphlets and books advising parents and teachers on the dos and don'ts of child-rearing.
        For over five decades he spoke out for children and their parents. He served under President Lyndon B. Johnson on the National Planning Committee for Head Start and was a shaper of that program for the children of the less fortunate.
        Dr. Hymes, a native New Yorker, graduated from Harvard College in 1934 and undertook his graduate work at the Child Development Institute of Teachers College, Columbia University. By the time he received his Ed.D. in child development and parent education there in 1947, he had already established a solid professional record.
        He served as a supervisor of nursery schools and parent education in the New York State Department of Education, as associate director of the Progressive Education Association and director of the experimental Hessian Hills School in Croton-on-Hudson.
        In 1943, working with Dr. Lois Meek Stolz, he set up two modern nursery schools at Henry J. Kaiser's  shipyards in Portland, Ore. At a time when such centers were typically found in church basements and old residences, the Kaiser nursery schools opened under the skeptical eyes of educators and parents, but were soon seen as models for post-war child development.
        They served over 1,000 children up to age six and their mothers by providing education, food, play, a place to sleep, meals, counseling and medical care. As manager of the yards' child service department, Dr. Hymes oversaw a staff of 150 specially trained teachers and nurses along with a cadre of support personnel.
        After the war, he was appointed a professor of education at the State Teachers College at New Paltz, N.Y., and gained national recognition as an author. Among his earliest best-selling booklets was ''A Pound of Prevention''(1947), which told first-grade teachers how to deal with the special problems of some of the ''war babies'' then heading their way.
        They included ''crybabies,'' ''whiners'' and ''bullies'' who had not quite weathered the family pressures and upsets of wartime. The tell-tale symptoms, Dr. Hymes wrote, could range from being too noisy to too quiet and withdrawn.
        Another popular title was ''How to Tell Your Child About Sex''(1949). It was written for parents faced with questions like ''Where do babies come from?'' ''Discipline'' (1951) and ''Understanding Your Child''(1952) were informal guides to recognizing and dealing with misbehavior. The author favored discipline as long as it was tempered with reasonableness and flexibility.
        He was considered one of the finest writers in parent education, as evidenced by the easy-to-understand ''A Healthy Personality For Your Child''(1952). It distilled information gathered by 1950 White House Conference on Children and Youth, in effect updating the 28-million copy ''Infant Care'' published by the United States Children's Bureau 38 years earlier.
        Several of Dr. Hymes's publications were reissued by Consortium Publishing in the 1990's and remain in print. They include ''Behavior and Misbehavior: A Teacher's Guide to Discipline,'' ''A Child Development Point of View: A Teacher's Guide to Action,'' ''The Child Under Six'' and ''Teaching the Child Under Six.''
        His most recent publication was ''Twenty Years in Review: A Look at Early Childhood Education, 1971-1990''(National Association for the Education of Young Children, 1991). It is a collection of the annual summaries of key events in his field that he had written since he retired in 1970 as professor of education at the University of Maryland.
        He and his wife, Lucia Manley Hymes, wrote two illustrated books of whimsical verses for children, ''Hooray for Chocolate'' (1960), and ''Oodles of Noodles'' (1964).
        Dr. Hymes taught at New Paltz until 1949, when he became professor of early childhood and elementary education at the George Peabody College for Teachers in Nashville until 1957, when he went to Maryland.
        He was a former president of the National Association for Nursery Education, an organization that was nearly moribund until he helped rebuild it after World War II.
        Besides his wife of almost 60 years, Dr. Hymes is survived by two daughters, Laney Humphrey of Carmel, Calif., and Jody Hymes of Oakland, Calif.; a son, James L. 3d, of St. Thomas, V.I.; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      