
        Paul Kovi, a former owner and director of the Four Seasons restaurant and a major figure on the New York restaurant scene for almost four decades, died on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 74.
        The cause was endocarditis, a staph infection of the blood and heart, said his son, Lawrence, of Novato, Calif.
        Mr. Kovi's association with the Four Seasons began in 1966, 16 years after he arrived in this country as an immigrant and seven years after the restaurant had opened in July 1959. With its spectacular setting in Mies van der Rohe's stark Seagram Building, its breathtaking size and restrained elegance, the Four Seasons in its earliest years symbolized New York's postwar emergence as the new international capital of finance, culture and the good life.
        But by the mid-1960's, the famous restaurant had become an unwilling and innocent victim of the hubris of its parent, Restaurant Associates.
        R/A, as it was known, had opened some of the New York's most exciting, though not always the most profitable, restaurants in the late 1950's and early 60's. Then it expanded into airline catering and roadside restaurants and, at one point, took over a casino and restaurant in France.  When Mr. Kovi arrived in 1966, the Four Seasons had begun a long slide into mediocrity. Restaurant Associates was hemorrhaging money, and each day new efforts were made to cut back on the luxury that had been inseparable from the Four Seasons' image.
        In 1973, Mr. Kovi and his business partner, Tom Margittai, bought the restaurant from the ailing parent company and, in a few years, succeeded in bringing it back to its former glory. Even New Yorkers who never dreamed of eating there were familiar with the Four Seasons' full-page newspaper advertisement featuring ''the Two of Us,'' Mr. Kovi and Mr. Margittai, who shared management of the resuscitated restaurant at 99 East 52d Street.
        In 1995, they sold the restaurant to the Joseph W. Seagram Company, the principal tenant of the building they had both inhabited for 36 years. Day-to-day management was assumed by two young men selected and trained by Mr. Kovi and Mr. Margittai, Alex von Bidder and Julian Niccolini.
        Paul Kovi was born in Balassagyarmat, Hungary. He graduated from the University of Transylvania, now a part of Romania, with a degree in agricultural engineering but delayed the start of his business career to play soccer. He was a member of the Hungarian national team in the late 1940's, then went to Italy to play for several professional teams.
        By 1949, he was managing a restaurant in Rome called the Piccola Budapest. He came to the United States in 1950, attended New York City Community College and obtained a degree in hotel and restaurant management. His first job here was as a headwaiter at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. In 1956, after a time in the banquet department at the old New Yorker Hotel, he became an assistant to Tom Margittai, who was banquet manager at the Sherry Netherland Hotel.
        Mr. Margittai, another Hungarian immigrant, became his mentor and later a friend and partner to Mr. Kovi, who was four years his senior.  When Mr. Margittai left New York in 1958 to work at the Mark Hopkins in San Francisco, Mr. Kovi became banquet manager at the Sherry Netherland. In 1964, he joined Restaurant Associates as manager of  the Tower Suite, a restaurant atop the Time-Life Building where guests were served by their own butler, maid and footman.
        From there, he moved over to the Forum of the Twelve Caesars on West 48th Street, Restaurant Associates' tongue-in-cheek takeoff on ancient Rome where waiters wore togas, wine buckets were shaped like upended centurions' helmets and almost every meal included one course that had to be flamed at table side.
        Next came a brief period at the Four Seasons until George Lang, yet another Hungarian, returned from the 1964 World's Fair, where he had operated several R/A restaurants. Joseph Baum, then president of Restaurant Associates, gave Mr. Lang the Four Seasons to run, and Mr. Kovi went back to the Forum. In 1968, Mr. Lang left the company and Mr. Kovi became director of the Four Seasons with Mr. Margittai.
        When the two approached Restaurant Associates about buying the Four Seasons, they were told they would have to take the Forum of the Twelve Caesars as well, and pay off any R/A obligations under a lease that still had several years to run. The price of the two restaurants was their book value, $230,000.
        The partners got them with a down payment of $15,000, quickly closed the Forum and began the long process of rebuilding the Four Seasons.  After selling the restaurant almost three years ago, Mr. Kovi divided his time between New York and Budapest, where he kept a home.
        Mr. Kovi's marriage ended in divorce about 30 years ago. In addition to his son, he is survived by his companion for many years, Eva Pust, and a grandson.
        Mr. Kovi was often described as the quintessential restaurateur. He exuded a quiet self-confidence that reassured guests and kept the staff  wary at all times. He was more gregarious than Tom Margittai and although he never lost his heavy Hungarian accent, he could recognize hundreds of regular customers from all over the world and chat easily with them in any of a half-dozen languages.
        Gael Greene, the food writer, once described Mr. Kovi as ''trim, graying and handsome as an old movie star; if he does not wear a velvet cape, he should.'' When Ms. Greene asked him about his trim figure, Mr. Kovi admitted that he dieted. ''Hungarians,'' he explained, ''are used to suffering.''
      