
        Wright Morris, whose taut American Gothic novels, stories, essays and photographs plumbed the mysteries of the stark Nebraska landscape and who was often called one of the nation's most unrecognized recognized writers, died on Saturday in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 88.
        Drawing on a picaresque childhood and comic overseas misadventures, Mr. Morris wrote 33 books, including 19 novels, three memoirs, four books of essays, two collections of short stories and five books of annotated photographs. His work was widely praised and honored with literary awards, but many admirers felt that in the end, Mr. Morris took literature more seriously than it took him.
        ''No book of mine can be read under a hair dryer, while bolting a hamburger or half-watching TV,'' he said in 1963, acknowledging his reputation as a sophisticated writer on unsophisticated subjects. But he seemed to shrug off any disappointment over his reception. ''Everything is not for everybody,'' he said, confessing, ''I find it harder to account for readers I have than for those I don't.''
        With his full head of bushy white hair and bristling mustache, Mr. Morris was a familiar figure for decades in book columns, in literary forums through the mid-1980's, and at San Francisco State University, where he taught from 1963 to 1974. His last book, ''Collected Stories: 1948-1986,'' was published in 1986 by Harper & Row. Since then he had several stories published in The New Yorker.
        In his evocation of idiosyncratic America, Mr. Morris was compared to Sherwood Anderson and Faulkner. In his celebration of the Nebraska prairie and the hardy folk who tamed it, Mr. Morris was compared to Willa Cather, and he, like she, suffered the snobbery of Easterners like H. L. Mencken, who said of Cather, ''I don't care how well she writes, I don't give a damn what happens in Nebraska.''
        But many readers did, captivated by Mr. Morris's spare and luminous prose, which was enlivened by sharp detail. ''There never was a people who tried so hard -- and left so little behind as we do,'' he wrote in ''The Inhabitants,'' a book of his photographs published by Scribner in 1946. ''There never was a people who traveled so light -- and carried so much.''
        In ''Collected Stories,'' he described his maiden Aunt Winona: ''She gave to this farmhouse kitchen, the light flaming her hair, the time-stopped dazzle of Vermeer's paintings. She poured milk from a bowl, threaded a needle, picked up crumbs from the table.''
        As a book critic, Mr. Morris reviewed Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man'' for The New York Times Book Review in 1952, saying ''it belongs on the shelf with the classical efforts man has made to chart the river Lethe from its mouth to its source.''
        One of his most acclaimed books was ''Solo: An American Dreamer in Europe'' (Harper & Row, 1983), telling the story of his prewar jaunt through Europe, where he was imprisoned in an Austrian castle and arrested in Italy by Mussolini's palace guard.
        Mr. Morris was born in 1910 in Central City, Neb., where he would  set many of his stories. His mother died when he was 6 days old and his father, a railroad man turned unsuccessful farmer, married a teen-age dancer who proved less than a model stepmother. As a youth, Wright bummed around the Midwest and made his way to California, where he dabbled in writing before dropping out of college to roam Europe. ''I had reached the age of 23 without knowing anything about books,'' he later wrote. But in Europe he discovered literature.
        Returning to the United States before World War II, he imitated his idol Walker Evans by crisscrossing the country taking photographs of a vanishing America, prairie folk, ghostly churches and abandoned farmsteads. Among those who admired his photography was Thomas Mann, who praised ''the harsh beauty of their ugliness, the romanticism of the commonplace, the poetry of the unpoetical.''
        In 1934 he married a fellow student. They later divorced and he married Josephine Mary Rossler, an art collector and dealer, in 1961. She is his only survivor.
        Mr. Morris's first publication was the novel ''My Uncle Dudley,'' published by Harcourt in 1942 and recounting the semi-autobiographical odyssey of ''the Kid'' and his father from California to Chicago in 1927.
        In 1957 he won the National Book Award for fiction for ''The Field of Vision,'' a bullfighting epic set in Mexico. In 1970 he was voted into the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the Congressional honor society. In 1981 he won an American Book Award for another novel,  ''Plains Song,'' and the next year was honored with the Common Wealth Award for distinguished service in literature. In 1985 he was among the first recipients of the Whiting Writers Awards. He also won three grants from the Guggenheim Memorial Foundation.
        Yet again and again, as Prof. John W. Aldridge of the University of Michigan wrote in The Times Book Review in 1970, ''Wright Morris seems to have become arrested permanently on the brink of major reputation.''
        If it bothered Mr. Morris, he didn't seem to show it. ''He was extremely disciplined,'' Mrs. Morris recalled on Monday.
        He worked steadily on a typewriter, never knew the meaning of writer's block, and as soon as he handed over a manuscript for her to proofread, started on the next. Bad reviews didn't bother him much either, said his wife, who often critiqued the critics: ''When I called the guy a moron, that was the end.''
      