
        J. Blan van Urk, a high-spirited sportsman and sometimes public relations man, author and entrepreneur who spent the better part of a century riding happily to the hounds, died on Monday at a health care center near his home at Sugar Tree Farm in Unionville, Pa. He was 95 and a widely recognized authority on fox hunting and lunch.
        During a complex career in which, by his own account, he worked as a ditch digger and factory hand, swabbed decks, made and lost a fortune in Florida real estate, became a pioneer in public relations, served as a business and financial consultant, devised a subsistence homestead program and analyzed slum clearance for the New Deal, wrote books and magazine articles, started and ran a variety of businesses and even worked briefly as a police reporter for The New York Journal-American, Mr. van Urk generally had better things to do.
        These included playing polo, breeding and training dogs and horses, pursuing foxes and other prey, among them tigers in India, jackals in Africa and hares in Australia and having lunch in grand style.
        Along the way, Mr. van Urk, whose initial ''J'' stood for Jan and who was known as Jack, became such an authority on fox hunting that he wrote and lectured widely on the subject, became the Encyclopedia Britannica's hunting expert and produced a two-volume ''Story of American Foxhunting,'' published in 1940 and 1941.
        His other books include ''Little Charlie the Fox,'' ''The Valley and the Chagrin Valley Hunt,'' and ''The Story of Rolling Rock,'' (the Ligonier, Pa., hunt, not the beer.)
        A native of the Dutch village of Urk, Mr. van Urk, whose father was a prominent surgeon, came to the United States with his parents as a child, grew up in New York and Kalamazoo, Mich., and found his niche early, during cavalry training at the Culver Military Academy in Indiana.
        Once he had found his seat, Mr. van Urk, a tall, slender man with a military bearing, was hooked on horses, although as a member of the Princeton class of '24, he broadened his horizons, becoming the college heavyweight boxing champion and discovering the gregarious joys of the sporting life at New York speakeasies.
        After a four-year sojourn in Florida, where he parlayed a $700 investment into a $1 million fortune, then lost it, perhaps because he believed his own glowing press releases, which he wrote for the Miami Beach Chamber of Commerce and the Miami Beach real estate board, he returned to New York in 1930, just in time to settle in at the new ''21'' Club on East 52d Street.
        Over the next three decades, Mr. van Urk changed jobs so often, generally in advertising and public relations, it might have appeared he was a bit flighty.
        Actually, he was the most steadfast of men, who pursued fox hunting so assiduously that he claimed to have ridden with 141 different hunting clubs here and abroad, and who became such a fixture at ''21'' that he had his own table, No. 9, to the left of the entrance and just beyond the statue of a jockey wearing Sugar Tree's maroon and gray steeplechase colors.
        Curiously, for a man who became an acclaimed amateur French chef, Mr. van Urk, who ate at ''21'' every day, rarely deviated from his standard lunch of chicken hash, followed by a dessert of his own concoction (cherries, strawberries, lemon ice and a splash of kirsch) long listed on the restaurant menu as ''Kersen Ardbeien en ys van Urk.''
        In 1944, when he married the former Virginia Nellis, a well-to-do widow from Kansas City, the pressure to earn a living eased somewhat. Or it would have if Mr. van Urk, who moved to the Brandywine hunt country near Wilmington, Del., in 1959, had not had such extravagant tastes that he had to keep working into his 80's, running businesses backed by wealthy friends, most recently a regional publisher, Serendipity Press.
        Even so, until he was 88 he managed to hunt twice a week, generally with Mr. Stewart's Cheshire Foxhounds.
        In addition to an extensive wardrobe that included scores of tailor-made suits, Mr. van Urk, who invariably wore a three-piece suit with a boutonniere, had such a penchant for joining hunt and other exclusive clubs that when he ran out of clubs to join he helped form one of his own: the Skeeters, for the mosquitoes that bedeviled many of the early New Jersey racing enthusiasts.
        Mr. van Urk once described the club, which is still based at ''21,'' as a group of freeloaders -- among them Humphrey Bogart, Howard Cosell and Sonny Werblin -- who used their celebrity to wangle free visits to race tracks and other sporting events.
        Since leaving New York (and setting up his lunch station in the Green Room of the Hotel du Pont in Wilmington), Mr. van Urk had rarely returned to ''21,'' mainly for the Skeeters' black-tie dinners. He was apparently not aware that the two jockeys he and Mr. Werblin had given the restaurant had been repainted in the new owner's corporate colors.
        Mr. van Urk, whose wife died several years ago, is survived by a stepson, Jerard Tanner of San Francisco, and two step grandchildren.
      