
        James R. Herman, a former president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, which represents stevedores on the West Coast and a variety of other workers, died on March 20 at California Pacific Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Herman, known as Jimmy, succeeded Harry Bridges, who had built the union amid labor dissension and confrontations on the docks in the 1930's. Mr. Herman was at the union's helm from 1977 until 1991, becoming a strong promoter of maritime operations in the San Francisco Bay area and an avid supporter of social action and social advocacy organizations.
        At his death, he had been a 14-year member of the San Francisco Port Commission, known for his strong commitment to preserving maritime jobs and keeping the bay piers competitive. He led an ad hoc group that prompted deeper dredging of the bay to make the Port of Oakland accessible to new and bigger container ships.
        He advocated social action, like the dockworkers' refusal in 1978 to handle materiel for junta-ruled Chile, their boycott of military cargo for the conservative government in El Salvador in 1989, and the boycott of ships from South Africa under apartheid in the 1980's.
        It was also as president of the union that Mr. Herman became a champion of social organizations, including the Delancey Street Foundation, a drug rehabilitation program in San Francisco that he first approached to get help for dockworkers with drug problems.
        A native of Newark, he joined the merchant marine at 17 as a member of the Marine Cooks and Stewards Union. He sailed the world and served in the Marine Corps in World War II.
        He joined the longshore union in 1953 and by 1961 had been elected president of Clerk's Local 34. His negotiating skills helped double dockworkers' wages and triple pension benefits.
        He is survived by two brothers, Milton M. Jr. and Rodman C., both of Irvington, N.J.
      