
        Austin Patterson Kelley, an advertising executive who was known as ''the dean'' among his peers in Atlanta for his emphasis on ethics, died March 26 of prostate cancer, his brother, Blaine Kelley Jr. of Atlanta, said. He was 67 and was the chairman and chief executive of Austin Kelley Advertising.
        Mr. Kelley, a soft-spoken native of Charlotte, N.C., was a graduate of the Citadel in Charleston, S.C. He served in the Air Force in the Korean War and later studied art at the Parsons School of Design in New York.
        He joined the advertising world in 1957. Within a few years he had opened his own agency, bearing his name, on Madison Avenue. In 1972 he merged it with an Atlanta firm, Burton-Campbell, but by 1975 Austin Kelley Advertising was once again an independent entity. The agency, whose clients include Church's Fried Chicken, the Georgia Lottery and United Parcel Service, has about $85 million in billings, said Geoffrey R. Nixon, its president.
        ''He was always trying to bring a little more class and a little more dignity to what he said was a much-maligned industry,'' Mr. Nixon said.  In his spare time, Mr. Kelley was a tireless supporter of the arts. He collected American paintings and sculpture, including works by Robert Henri, George Luks and Guy Pene du Bois. At the time of his death, he was a trustee of the High Museum of Art, the Woodruff Arts Center, the Atlanta College of Art and Brookgreen Gardens, a sculpture garden in Murrells Inlet, S.C., near his vacation house on Pawleys Island.
        He believed passionately that people should participate in the arts, his brother said. At one point, he owned a gallery in downtown Atlanta. In 1975, he wrote a book, ''The Anatomy of Antiques,'' in conjunction with Sotheby's auction house that was a guide to identifying furniture and other works of art.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Kelley is survived by his wife, Carol; a sister, Margaret Kelley Carter of Columbia, S.C.; two daughters, Susan Kelley Conger of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Carolyn Kelley Baugus of Atlanta, and three grandchildren.
      