
        Dr. John Turkevich, a chemist at Princeton University whose work with catalysts helped pave the way for the commercial production of unleaded gasoline, died March 25 at the St. Lawrence Rehabilitation Center in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 91 and a resident of Jamesburg, N.J.
        His work on chemical catalysts led to a wide range of discoveries, like the anticancer drug sis-platinum, said Dr. Charles Dismukes, a colleague at Princeton.
        Chemists had known about the role of catalysts since the 1800's, but Dr. Turkevich ''took it one step further, into the catalysis of hydrocarbons,'' Dr. Dismukes said. ''The whole field emerged because of the platinum chemistry of Turkevich and his colleagues.''
        Dr. Turkevich found in the 1940's that platinum could play a larger role in the petroleum refining process, and his ideas were incorporated in the 1950's into several commercial catalytic processes.
        The Federal Government did not require industry to begin to phase out the use of tetraethyl lead as an antiknock additive in gasoline until the 1970's, long after Dr. Turkevich had found a way to alter the hydrocarbon molecules in petroleum from linear chains to rings. The new form of fuel burned more slowly, and without the explosions that cause knocking in an automobile engine.
        During World War II, he worked on the Manhattan Project, which developed the first atomic bomb. The son of the Primate of the Russian Orthodox Church in the United States, he was a leader in scientific relations between the Soviet Union and the United States in the 1960's.
        In 1960, he became the first science attache named to the United States Embassy in Moscow, and in 1965 was the head of a delegation to the Soviet Union to establish scientific exchanges with the United States.
        In the mid-1950's, he was a United States delegate to the first United Nations Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, and he was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a private organization.
        He wrote several books, including ''Chemistry in the Soviet Union'' (1965), and wrote ''Russian for the Scientist'' (1959) with his wife, Dr. Ludmilla Buketoff Turkevich, a Russian language scholar. She died in 1995.
        Dr. Turkevich, who retired in 1975 as the Eugene Higgins Professor of Chemistry at Princeton, was a founder of the International Catalysis Society and president of the National Institute for Catalysis.
        Born in Minneapolis, he received his B.A. and M.A. at Dartmouth College, and his doctorate from Princeton. He joined the Princeton faculty in 1936.
        Survivors include two daughters, Marina T. Naumann of Norwich, Vt.,  and Tamara T. Skvir of Princeton; two brothers, Anthony L. Turkevich  of Oak Brook, Ill., and Nicholas L. Turkevich of West Fairlee, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      