
        Eldon W. Lyle, a noted plant pathologist of Tyler, the East Texas town known as a center of rose research, died on Dec. 28 at a Tyler nursing home. He was 89 and had lived in Tyler most of his life.
        Dr. Lyle earned international renown in the fight against diseases affecting the rose, like black spot, a devastating fungus that causes leaves to wither and drop and keeps the plants from flowering. He discovered how to control the pest over 50 years ago when he devised a carefully planned pattern of spraying the rose crops that form a mainstay of Tyler's agriculture and the whole region's economy.
        He also raised the fame of Tyler roses by developing a cutting method that aids the formation of each rose bush and makes it hardy enough to withstand winter's cold. Heading the Texas Rose Research Foundation in Tyler, he was closely associated for many years with the annual Texas Rose Festival and Tyler Rose Park, a huge municipal garden and tourist attraction.
        His advice to rose fanciers battling black spot fungus was a steady program of spraying every week to 10 days, from the time the first rose leaf buds break to early fall. His recipe was one-half tablespoon of either maneb (Manzate) or folpet (Phaltan) combined with one-half tablespoon of benomyl (Benlate) to one gallon of water.
        ''Roses don't need a lot of care,'' he often said. ''They need a little on a regular basis.''
        A native of Corpus Christi, Tex., he graduated from Oregon State University and began to study roses at Cornell University, where he wrote a dissertation on the control of black spot disease for his doctorate in 1937.
        He arrived in Tyler at a time when leading growers were raising their sights from the local market to the state and national levels and started testing their rootstocks scientifically. Hired as a plant pathologist, Dr. Lyle helped breed various varieties as he investigated hybrids, genetic composition, cultural adaptation and fertilizer needs to achieve maximum results.
        He expected to conduct full-time research under field conditions to control rust disease and red spider mites and instead found a black spot epidemic raging throughout the region's rose industry. It left bushes weak and market stocks poor, but he managed within three years to control the disease with commercially produced dust fungicides, assuring him a national reputation.
        Twice widowed, Dr. Lyle leaves no immediate survivors.
      