
        Gen. Herbert Butler Powell, a former chief of the Continental Army Command and former Ambassador to New Zealand, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 94.
        General Powell joined the National Guard in his native Oregon and retired 43 years later, in 1963, as a four-star general. At the time, he was in command of six armies and their equipment and training throughout the continental United States, responsible for 315,000 military personnel, 69,000 civilian employees and 1.7 million Reservists and members of the National Guard.
        He and his aides at the Army command, at Fort Monroe, Va., were also entrusted with the task of drawing up contingency plans for mobilization and training, ranging from an all-out call-up in case of war to limited build-ups for lesser confrontations overseas.
        President John F. Kennedy rewarded him for his services in the Cuban missile crisis by appointing General Powell Ambassador to New Zealand in 1963. He served in the post in Wellington until 1967.
        Herbert Powell was born in Monmouth, Ore. He joined the Oregon National Guard in 1919, rose from private to sergeant and was commissioned into the regular Army in 1926 after his graduation from the University of Oregon. He was also a 1941 graduate of the Command and General Staff School and a 1949 graduate of the National War College. He reached flag rank by 1960.
        In World War II, he first was a general staff officer at the War Department, working in operations and training at Army Ground Forces headquarters. Then he served as chief of staff of the 75th Infantry Division as it fought its way across France, through the Battle of the Bulge into the Rhineland and central Europe.
        In the Korean War he commanded the 17th Infantry Regiment in an advance that reached the Yalu River, on the border with China. He also sat on a high-level commission that considered the cases of American prisoners of war who made false confessions to war crimes, like germ warfare, after months of interrogation by their North Korean captors -- the so-called brainwashing issue.
        General Powell returned to manpower control at the Army General Staff in the early 1950's. He then commanded the 25th Infantry Division, the United States Army Infantry School and the Third United States Army, his last assignment before taking charge of the Continental Army Command in 1960.
        He qualified as an Army aviator. His decorations included the Distinguished Service Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, the Bronze Star with two oak leaf clusters, and the Air Medal.
        General Powell's first wife, Beryl King Powell, died in 1989 after 61 years of marriage. He is survived by his second wife, Grace Tuggle Powell; three stepchildren, seven step-grandchildren, and four step-great-grandchildren.
      