
        David Hicks, whose relentlessly organized, color-clashing home interiors were the acme of jet-set chic in the 1960's, died on Sunday at The Grove, his country house in Brightwell Baldwin in Oxfordshire, England. He was 69.
        Mr. Hicks, who had recently suffered a stroke, died of lung cancer that was diagnosed six weeks ago, said his wife, Lady Pamela Hicks.
        Known for his love of graphic color combinations as well as for a temperament that veered between disarming charm and apoplectic rage, Mr. Hicks was the most famous decorator of his day. Late in life he became celebrated for designing the geometrically precise gardens at The Grove, which have been the subject of numerous articles in major design magazines over the last decade. He was also an anomaly: an English decorator who loathed the Masterpiece Theater school of English decoration.
        ''He killed every flower in his soul,'' said Min Hogg, editor of the trend-setting British magazine The World of Interiors, referring to the designer's hatred of chintz. ''His was a rigorous, very tailored look. So much of it was about control. There wasn't a wrinkle or crease anywhere.''
        Mr. Hicks's heady combination of bold antiques and modern furniture set off by abstract paintings, often best deployed within an envelope of cool Georgian architecture, was the last word among movers and shakers of the 1960's, like the beauty products tycoon Vidal Sassoon. For the American cosmetics diva Helena Rubenstein, Mr. Hicks designed an infamous living room of purple tweed walls and Victorian furniture upholstered in magenta leather.
        Among his other projects were rooms for the young Prince Charles and Princess Anne, a yacht for King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and a nightclub on the QE2 ocean liner -- gray flannel walls edged with silver.
        So emblematic of the era were his interiors that he was asked to design sets for one of the quintessential movies of the moment, the 1968 Julie Christie film ''Petulia.''
        ''My greatest contribution as an interior designer has been to show people how to use bold color mixtures, how to use patterned carpets, how to light rooms and how to mix old with new,'' he wrote in ''David Hicks on Living -- with Taste'' (1968), one of nine practical design books bearing his byline. His last book was ''Cotswold Gardens'' (Trafalgar Square, 1996).
        Mr. Hicks's greatest wish was to have his career celebrated in a full-scale biography, to be written by the British design journalist June Ducas. Initially, the monumentally opinionated Mr. Hicks promised a ''warts and all'' view of a life that was as tempestuous professionally as it was privately. In the end, though, discretion prevailed, and Ms. Ducas said this week that the book had been postponed indefinitely.
        Though Mr. Hicks wrote that his eye-popping color schemes were Victorian in spirit -- a typical room formula was maroon walls, scarlet curtains, purple carpet, vermilion sofa, cherry-red chairs and shocking pink cushions -- one of the hallmarks of his use of color was contemporary in inspiration. According to Lady Pamela, high-gloss brown walls entered his professional vocabulary after she began throwing glasses of Coca-Cola at him during moments of marital discord.
        ''He was an absolute volcano to live with, but so life enhancing,'' she said on Tuesday. ''I already miss his slamming of doors. David filled your sails with his enthusiasms. When I met him, I was visually blind, always with my nose in a book. He opened my eyes.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hicks is survived by a son, Ashley Hicks, an architect and designer who lives in London; two daughters, the fashion model India Hicks of Harbour Island, the Bahamas, and Edwina Brudenell of Brightwell Baldwin, Oxfordshire; and five grandchildren.
        The son of a stockbroker, David Nightingale Hicks was born on March 25, 1929, in Coggeshall, Essex. A graduate of the Central College of Art, he was drawing cereal boxes for J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency, when a glowing article about the makeover that Mr. Hicks had wrought on his mother's London house appeared in House & Garden in 1954. David Hicks, decorator, was born.
        By the 1970's, David Hicks Ltd. was producing wallpaper, fabrics and linens and had offices and boutiques in eight countries. In New York, his partner was the up-and-coming decorator Mark Hampton.
        Mr. Hicks's sudden celebrity -- not to mention his ego -- was immeasurably enhanced in 1960, when he married Lady Pamela Mountbatten, the younger daughter of the Earl Mountbatten of Burma, last Viceroy of India and a great-grandson of Queen Victoria.
        According to The New York Times, ''It was the most elegant wedding this country has seen since the Queen, then Princess Elizabeth, was married in Westminster Abbey nearly thirteen years ago.'' The bride's mink-trimmed white satin dress was buoyed by a petticoat made of 200 yards of tulle, the wedding cake was baked in the shape of the Mountbattens' family house, the Queen's 9-year-old daughter, Princess Anne, was a bridesmaid, and Prince Charles, then 11, publicly wore his first pair of long pants.
        That connection to royalty was one of the signal joys in life for Mr. Hicks, who was, even his most forgiving friends admitted, a snob of Olympian proportions. (At the moment of Mr. Hicks's death, his son was reading aloud to him from the memoirs of the Queen's aunt, Princess Alice, Duchess of Gloucester. Mr. Hicks is said to have smiled at the mention of five servants whose job it was to neatly rake a gravel driveway. According to Lady Pamela, he then rolled over to look out the window at his garden and ''he simply stopped breathing.'') And though dramatic gestures appeared to be part of Mr. Hicks's heritage -- his mother was a frustrated actress who toured the countryside for charity dressed as the Virgin Queen in a sort of mobile tableau -- apparently some of his extended family's notions of pageantry rubbed off on him as well.
        Ashley Hicks said that his father left a guide to the disposition of his body, called ''The Demise of David Hicks.'' Its subject matter was wide-ranging and included instructions on where the designer should lie in state (the garden pavilion) as well as the sort of hearse to be used (a trailer pulled behind a Range Rover festooned with ivy). And though the funeral will be held on Saturday at a 15th-century church near his home, Mr. Hicks will be buried three miles away in a churchyard whose setting he deemed more pleasing. The coffin will be filled, as ordered, with his obituary notices. As Ashley Hicks noted on Tuesday with a laugh, ''He loved his press coverage.''
      