
        In the past two winters, speed skating has been revolutionized by a clap skate that allows skaters to go so much faster that they have rewritten the entire record book. Gerrit Jan van Ingen Schenau, a Dutch scientist who developed the skate, died last Thursday in Weteringburg, 25 miles south of Amsterdam. He was 53.
        The Associated Press said that, following Dutch custom, the cause of death and the listing of survivors were not announced yesterday, the day the death was announced. The Dutch news media, however, reported that he had suffered a long illness.
        The traditional racing skate has a blade fixed to the boot in the front and back. In the clap skate, a spring-loaded hinge in front allows the boot's heel to rise and fall. That keeps the skate on the ice longer, which means more economy of motion and, in turn, greater speed. When the blade springs back into contact with the shoe, it makes a clapping sound, and thus the name clap skate.
        More than 100 years ago, a Canadian and a German received patents on the clap skate. Mr. van Ingen Schenau, a profesor of biomechanics at Free University in Amsterdam, developed the skate in 1983, and it was first used in the 1984-85 season. But as Gerard Kemkers, a Dutch Olympic medalist in 1988 and a United States national coach the past four years, said: ''In theory, the clap skate was a perfect concept. But in actual practice, very few people skated faster. They just couldn't get the blade and boot to separate.''
        The problem was that elite skaters felt uncomfortable with clap skates. They had learned to skate with their ankles suppressed, and now they had to change that. When they resisted change, the Dutch tried the clap skates on younger skaters. In 1996, with Mr. van Ingen Schenau leading the way, the Dutch made a decisive move.
        Viking, the Dutch manufacturer of skates, made enough pairs for the Dutch women's team in the 1996-97 World Cup season. The sweeping success of that team led every other skating nation to get the new skates and learn to use them.
        ''Skates had stayed relatively the same since the sport was invented,'' said Katie Marquard, the executive director of United States Speedskating, the sport's national governing body. ''The clap skate has made it a whole different sport.''
        The record book is certainly different because the clap skate usually allows elite skaters to go a second faster for each 400-meter lap. The five major world records for men and a slightly different five for women were broken consistently the last two winters. Nine of those 10 records were broken again during the world single-distance championships March 27-29 in Calgary, Alberta. The only record that survived that meet -- for the women's 500 meters -- was set last November.
        Nick Thometz, the program director for United States Speedskating, said some skaters had trouble accepting clap skates.
        ''For the most part,'' he said, ''the best skaters are still the best, but a couple of the best were not in the running this year because they didn't adapt. You've got to learn to use the skates efficiently. It's coordination, skill and new mechanics.''
        There are also old habits. Older skaters have sometimes had trouble adapting to the clap skates. Men have been more wary than women, sprinters more wary than distance skaters.
        ''Some of the older skaters had been skating for 20 years on basically the same kind of skate,'' Mr. Thometz said. ''Then, six to nine months before the Nagano Olympics, they got clap skates and had to learn a new technique. Some were not that competitive initially.
        ''A lot of skating is feeling your contact with the ice, your blade hitting the ice, your blade coming off the ice. The clap skate has a different feel, and some people have trouble getting that feel.''
        The Americans got a late start with clap skates because when orders started to pour into Viking, the manufacturer took care of its regular customers first. Every elite skater wears them now, although not everyone loves them.
        ''I have mixed feelings,'' Mr. Kemkers said. ''I don't want to see this technology take away from the quiet and fine coordination, which is the special beauty of speed skating.''
      