
        Ruby Levine, a Brooklyn-born violinist who spent his life making people smile even if he had to resort to his vast store of painfully bad jokes to do it, died Saturday night apparently after suffering a heart attack near the Pennsylvania Hotel on Seventh Avenue. He was 81 and had been the wisecracking strolling violinist at Sammy's Roumanian restaurant since it opened on the Lower East Side in 1975.
        A Heifetz he wasn't, but Mr. Levine, who claimed to know 40,000 songs (''I just can't play 'em'') was good enough, or persistent enough, to make a consistent living as a musician.
        Music, after all, was in his blood. Born into a distinctly musical family, Mr. Levine, whose given name was Rubin, his sister and three brothers were each taught to play a different instrument as children; all became professional musicians, and Mr. Levine, at least, apparently never worked at anything else.
        He didn't need to. As he learned early on, his violin, a few magic tricks, a constant Catskills patter and his infectious personality were all he needed to get by.
        Over the years he worked with big bands on cruise ships and entertained hungry, and notoriously grumpy, guests lined up impatiently for dinner at the Concord Hotel in the Catskills.
        And if he never played in an actual orchestra pit, Mr. Levine did quite well, thank you, playing his violin on the sidewalk in front of Broadway theaters.
        For all that, he labored in comparative obscurity until 1975, when he walked into Sammy's the first week it opened at 157 Chrystie Street and found a permanent home and what became something of a cult following.
        Hired on the spot to play on Monday and Tuesday nights, Mr. Levine was in his element at a restaurant where the schmaltz comes in pitchers on every table and the famous butter-soft, garlic-rubbed skirt steak is rumored to be steak-flavored butter.
        In a restaurant whose garrulous coterie of wealthy regulars can create quite a din all by their shouting selves, Mr. Levine didn't try to entertain, or be heard by, everybody at once. Instead, he made his way from table to table, playing virtually every requested song, cracking jokes and leaving a trail of beaming faces in his wake.
        Customers, who were sometimes so stirred by his music that they sang along with their mouths full, enjoyed him so much they made it a point to return on nights they knew Mr. Levine would be there.
        If children were at the table, Mr. Levine would be sure to perform one of his four (count 'em) magic tricks, which included cutting a rope in two, then restoring it, and making a handkerchief disappear.
        His working uniform was a fedora with a ''Kiss Me, I'm Jewish'' button, and one of his two T-shirts. (''The other one's being dry-cleaned,'') For a man who worked for both salary and tips (not to mention free meals) the lack of a jacket with commodious side pockets worked to his advantage. Customers who had to stuff tips directly into the tight pants pockets of a man whose hands, after all, were full of violin and bow, couldn't manage to squeeze in a handful of change and had to stick to folding money.
        For all his informality, Mr. Levine had a sure sense of occasion. When he was moved, for example, to play his violin outside her Fifth Avenue apartment the day of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis' funeral, he wore a tuxedo.
        For Mr. Levine, who had a brief marriage many years ago and lived in a single room at a Manhattan hotel, Sammy's became the center of his social life. Mr. Levine, whose perpetually sunny disposition tended to turn fans into lifelong friends, was often summoned to play at private parties, and customers with sick friends were forever taking him to hospitals, where Mr. Levine would inevitably move from room to room, cheering up an entire floor of patients.
        For a man who wasn't a Heifetz, Mr. Levine had his moments. His violin, he was forever pointing out, was a Strad (''the avarius didn't come yet'') and on one memorable night at Sammy's, Itzhak Perlman played it. (Sammy himself swears this is true, but then, the restaurant's supposedly eponymous owner, whose surname is Zimmerman, is actually named Stan.)
        Mr. Levine, who outlived his siblings and left no immediate survivors, had last played at Sammy's three weeks ago, when he was hospitalized for a week after suffering a heart attack.
        For those who loved him there was some consolation in the death of a man whose oft-stated ambition was to outlive Henny Youngman, a Sammy's regular who died in February.
        Then again, Mr. Levine had also often said that when he died he wanted his body donated to a women's hospital. Alas, he was buried at Mount Hebron Cemetery in Queens.
      