
        Bengt Tornqvist, a sea captain who came up with the concept of building cargo ships with ramps and openings so that motor vehicles could be driven into and out of their holds, died April 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in New York City and Stockholm. He died of intestinal problems, a business associate said.
        Mr. Tornqvist was sometimes referred to as ''Mr. Car Carrier'' because of his long interest in the design of the so-called RORO (roll-on, roll-off) ships, which helped to spur the surge of imported cars into the United States.
        He got the idea of designing such ships in the 1940's when as a captain in charge of various Swedish ships he watched the time-consuming and awkward process of having to lift each car or truck by crane into the holds of cargo ships, where they had to be squeezed in.
        Michael P. McCarthy, his business associate, recalled that Mr. Tornqvist met with skepticism when he tried to interest the shipping industry in the concept.
        Eventually, in the early 1950's, he was able to interest some Volkswagen executives in Germany who  were preparing to export the Beetle to the United States.
        He teamed up with Olaf Wallenius,  the founder of Wallenius Lines, a shipping company in Sweden, to build the first ships.
        After serving in various posts at Wallenius Lines, he founded his own company, Scandinavian Motorships, to represent Wallenius Lines as an agent to get automobile companies to use the ships for export. Also, foreseeing that Japan would become a major exporter of cars, Mr. Tornqvist helped to introduce the ships there.
        He helped to set up container terminals in many ports, including Port Elizabeth, N.J., which has become a major entry point for imported cars.
        He oversaw the building of 125 ships. There are now about 320 RORO ships in the world fleet.
        After his retirement in 1980, he  designed a new type of ship that could be unloaded offshore using large barges that could bring the cars into port.
        RORO ships have been increasing in size, and some ports have had trouble handling them because the harbors have not been deep enough. Again Mr. Tornqvist was ahead of his time. The shipping industry seems resistant to adopting his idea, although a few people are looking into it.
        Mr. Tornqvist was born in Nor, Sweden, and attended maritime schools in Stockholm and Kalmar. He began his career on a four-masted training ship sailing from Sweden to Australia. He became a captain at the age of 27 and was a superintendent for the Swedish-Chicago Line from 1950 to 1953, after which he joined Wallenius.
        He had lived in the United States since the early 1980's and became a  citizen in 1992. He is survived by his wife, Daisy, and five children from a previous marriage who live in Sweden.
      