
        John Tate, whose tormented life went uphill during a five-month reign as a world heavyweight boxing champion and then downhill again, was killed early Thursday morning in a one-truck accident in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 43.
        The 1989 Ford pickup truck Tate was driving went out of control on an entrance ramp to westbound Interstate 40, crashed into a utility pole and flipped over. One passenger refused medical treatment and the other was treated at a hospital and released.
        Lieut. Bob Woolridge, a public-relations officer for the Knoxville Police Department, said yesterday that the police were awaiting the results of an autopsy to determine whether drugs or alcohol were involved in the crash. Tate had a history of drug problems.
        Tate was known as Big John because he carried up to 270 pounds on his 6-foot-4-inch frame. In recent years, he had ballooned to 400 pounds.
        On Oct. 20, 1979, he won the World Boxing Association's heavyweight championship by battering Gerrie Coetzee of South Africa over 15 rounds before 81,000 fans in Pretoria, South Africa. (The rival World Boxing Council recognized Larry Holmes as champion.)
        On March 31, 1980, in his first defense, Tate lost the title in Knoxville when a desperate Mike Weaver, 45 seconds away from losing on all three official scorecards, knocked Tate out with a left hook. Weaver's punch sent Tate spinning to the floor, where he lay motionless for minutes, blood dribbling from his left ear.
        ''Everywhere I went,'' Tate said later, ''it tormented me the way I lost to him. I guess it will always torment me.''
        Tate, a native of West Memphis, Ark., left school in seventh grade without the ability to read or write. (He learned later.) He picked cotton and fruit and worked in mills. When he was 14, he worked daily from 7 A.M. to 5 P.M. moving stacks of wood in lumber yards. In cold weather, his hands froze because he did not wear gloves.
        ''You can't work with gloves if you can't afford gloves,'' he said later.
        He moved to Knoxville, swept out jail cells and learned to box. In the 1976 Montreal Olympics, he won a bronze medal, and the following May he turned professional.
        When his career ended in 1988, he had earned slightly more than $1.7 million and had compiled a 34-3 record that included 23 knockouts. After that, his life went from bad to worse.
        He admitted he had had a cocaine habit for five years in the 1980's. He went to prison for petty theft and assault. In 1989, his property was auctioned off to pay debts. He became a panhandler. In recent years, he was in and out of jail for violating probation.
        He is survived by his mother, Vernice Archer of Detroit, and a daughter, Vernice Tate of West Memphis, Ark.
      