
        Glen Frazier Leet, who worked to provide financing to entrepreneurs here and abroad and who aided community development programs around the world for more than five decades, died on April 7 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 89.
        Mr. Leet's credentials in self-help and community development date from the end of World War II, when he became involved in antipoverty work in Greece. After that, he was president of Save the Children and the Community Development Foundation and a consultant to governments on their environmental and community development plans.
        In 1979, he and his wife, Mildred Robbins Leet, founded Trickle Up, a program that has helped an estimated 350,000 of the world's poorest people, many of them women, offering to them the opportunity to build new lives by starting a small business with grants of as little as $50 each. At his death, he was co-president with his wife.
        The Leets formed their own consulting firm on social issues in the 1970's. Trickle Up, which grew from that experience, was started with $1,000 of their own money, a few computers on their dining-room table and the help of a part-time assistant. It now operates in 115 countries and estimates that it has spawned about 67,500 enterprises.
        The program depends on individual donations and foundation grants and now operates from its West Side headquarters with a staff of 14. Although it was formed to benefit the world's poor, it began to make grants in this country, too, in 1994. The grants are typically about $500, with a $200 follow-up, and are given in conjunction with community-based agencies like the Harlem Business Outreach Center, the Central Vermont Community Action Council or the Institute for Social and Economic Development of Iowa.
        Trickle Up reported recently that more than 80 percent of the wide variety of enterprises started since 1994 in the United States have remained in business. These include a caterer, a milliner, a T-shirt printer, a leather crafter, a day-care center, a photographer, a television repairer and a word-processing service.
        Glen Leet was born in Brockton, Mass. He graduated from Norwich University in Vermont in 1930 and received a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University. In 1935, representing the American Public Welfare Association, he helped draft social-welfare legislation for state legislatures.
        Mr. Leet began his work as a volunteer for Unrra, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, in 1944 and led its effort to relieve starvation in Greece in the wake of war and civil strife. That work led to a stint as the United Nations' first chief of community development in the 1950's, when he directed research, training and technical assistance for building infrastructures, mostly in developing countries. He helped governments set up community projects and organize self-help efforts for the poor.
        As program director and, after 1971, as president of the Save the Children Foundation, he oversaw programs in urban areas as well as among the Indians of Arizona and New Mexico. In 1973, while engaged in that work, he met the woman who was to become his second wife.
        Besides Mrs. Leet, he is survived by two daughters and a son from an earlier marriage, Frederika Leet of Manhattan, Carla Leet of Houston and Glen Jr., of Kingston, N.Y.; two stepdaughters, Aileen Robbins of Manhattan and Jane Marla Robbins of Los Angeles, four grandchildren and two great-granddaughters.
        His first wife, Marcia Hatch Leet, died in 1971.
      