
        Former Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach of Vietnam, the urbane diplomat who struggled but failed to normalize relations with the United States in the 1980's, died on Friday at the age of 75, foreign diplomats in Hanoi said today.
        There was no immediate announcement of his death by the Vietnamese leadership, which removed him in 1991 from his post as Foreign Minister and from the ruling Politburo.
        He had reportedly been suffering for some time from various ailments, but had recovered enough last year to lead a Vietnamese delegation that met in Hanoi with the former United States Secretary of Defense, Robert S. McNamara, to discuss missed opportunities for peace during the Vietnam war.
        Mr. Thach made it clear at that meeting that Vietnam had few regrets over its conduct of the war, which ended in 1975 with a Vietnamese victory and a reunification of the country that had been divided since its liberation in 1954 from French colonial rule.
        Mr. Thach, a revolutionary from the age of 14 and a career diplomat fluent in French and English, first made his mark abroad in 1968 as an aide to Le Duc Tho in secret peace talks in Paris with Henry A. Kissinger, who was President Nixon's national security adviser and Secretary of State.
        He later played a leading role in the 1973 Paris peace accords, which led to the American military withdrawal from Vietnam two years before Hanoi's final victory.
        He became Foreign Minister in 1980 at a time when Vietnam was economically broken and internationally isolated, and put his energies into attempts to improve relations with the West.
        He apparently fell from favor when Vietnam's ally, the Soviet Union, collapsed and Hanoi sought to improve relations with China.
        His attempts at rapprochement with Washington were stalled by Vietnam's decade-long domination of neighboring Cambodia, from 1979 to 1989. His removal as Foreign Minister came as Vietnam turned its attention to better relations with China.
        Mr. Thach retained the respect of many of his colleagues, who saw him as the most liberal and intellectual member of the leadership, and of many of his counterparts abroad, who were drawn to his charm and reasonable approach to problems.
        Nguyen Co Thach was born in Nam Dinh province, in northern Vietnam, on March 15, 1923, and left school as a teen-ager to join the resistance against the French.
        He was jailed by them for a year in the same prison that later became known as the Hanoi Hilton when it housed American prisoners of war. One of the P.O.W.'s was Pete Peterson, a fighter pilot who is now serving as the first United States Ambassador to a unified Vietnam, after the normalization of relations in 1995.
        Mr. Thach rose to the rank of colonel in the Viet Minh resistance and joined the diplomatic service of North Vietnam after the country's partition in 1954. Two years later he became consul general in India.
        He served for two decades as Deputy Foreign Minister, gaining an increasingly high profile abroad before being promoted to Foreign Minister.  He became an alternate member of the Politburo in 1982 and a full member four years later, the first diplomat to join the ruling circle.
        In 1987 he gained the additional post of Vice Chairman of the Council of Ministers, equivalent to the position of Deputy Prime Minister.
        Mr. Thach is survived by his wife, Pham Thi Phuc.
      