
        Allen Murray Myers, a justice of State Supreme Court from 1976 to 1988 who mounted a widely noted protest over an antiquated public school in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, and he had been in declining health, said his daughter, Shelley Myers Ross.
        Justice Myers, a Democrat, was a Manhattan lawyer specializing in bankruptcy law when he was elected a Civil Court judge in 1967. He was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1975. He retired from the bench in 1988.
        In 1984, he ruled on a case involving two half-ton cannons that had been cast in 1748 in England, used by the British against the French in the French and Indian Wars and captured by the French in 1759.
        The weapons were claimed by New York State, which filed suit, and also by two men who had found them on the bottom of Lake Champlain in 1968 and fished them out. The guns had been on board a ship that sank.
        The justice decided the guns should be given to the state and the two men reimbursed for what he called salvage. He cited English common law and New York State statutes. Under common law, he said, the ''sovereign'' -- the King of England when the cannons were made, and later the State of New York -- owns whatever wreckage lies unclaimed under its waters for more than a year.
        Allen Murray Myers was born in Manhattan and received a bachelor's degree and, in 1937, his law degree, from New York University.
        In 1953 a Domestic Relations Court justice, Justine Wise Polier, decided that Mr. Myers had not violated the compulsory education law by refusing to send his daughter, Shelley, to an antiquated school, Public School 19.
        Justice Polier held that Shelley, who was 9 then, was being adequately tutored at home by her parents.
        In addition, Justice Polier held that it was not up to her to decide the issue raised by Mr. Myers -- that the 94-year-old P.S. 19, at 14th Street and First Avenue, was a ''physical and mental hazard'' to the 1,000 pupils assigned to it.
        His wife, Roslyn, died in 1991.
        Besides his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by two grandsons and a brother, Jack, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.
      