
        Francis Bergan, a former New York State Court of Appeals judge and member of commissions formed to consider revisions to the State Constitution, died on March 23 at the Teresian House, a nursing home in Albany, his hometown. He was 95.
        At the 1938 Constitutional Convention he drafted the county home rule provision in the state's new Constitution. He also served as a Democratic delegate and committee chairman at the 1967 Constitutional Convention.
        Gov. Thomas E. Dewey named him to the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller sent him to the Court of Appeals, the state's highest, in 1963.  He retired from the bench in 1972.
        In 1973, Mr. Rockefeller named him chairman of a panel reviewing the qualifications of candidates for judgeships who had been recommended to handle cases under Mr. Rockefeller's tough new narcotics law. And he served Gov. Hugh L. Carey as a member of a panel that in 1979 studied the salaries of state executives, judges and legislators and recommended raises.
        Judge Bergan was widely known for a 1971 decision in Dole v. Dow that widened an employee's right under the workers' compensation law to sue third parties -- manufacturers, for example -- in addition to filing a claim against an employer over injuries on the job.
        After his death, Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye paid tribute to his legacy with a statement in open court. She recalled his opinion in Boomer v. Atlantic Cement Company as one of the most remarkable handed down by any court in several decades. It is, she noted, ''the only case routinely taught to first-year law students in three separate courses -- property, torts and civil procedure.''
        The 1970 industrial pollution case is considered a benchmark in nuisance law. It involved landowners' complaints of property losses that would formerly have resulted in injunctions shutting down an entire factory. The decision allowed for compensation for harm without requiring lengthy negotiations or factory closings.
        Judge Bergan, a native of Albany,  started out as a court reporter for the old Knickerbocker Press of Albany while he attended Albany Law School. He graduated from law school in 1923 and became a city judge in 1930 and a police court judge in 1933. In 1936, he moved up to State Supreme Court.
        He is survived by a son, Michael F., of Albany; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      