
        Alex Ritchie, a British balloonist who clambered atop an airborne balloon's gondola last year to jettison fuel tanks, halting a crash-dive, died on Saturday at Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 52 and had been undergoing treatment at the hospital since January.
        The cause of death was injuries he sustained in January in an accident while sky diving, according to The Associated Press. It reported that the office of Richard Branson, a wealthy British entrepreneur and balloonist, said Mr. Ritchie had come down with blood poisoning after surgery to repair one of his hips.
        Duncan Ritchie, 20, a son of Mr. Ritchie, said, ''He was a fighter and carried on fighting until the end.''
        In the ballooning incident, which occurred in January 1997, Alex Ritchie, a Scottish-born mechanical engineer, was part of a crew trying to circle the globe. Twelve months later, he was preparing for another try at ballooning around the globe when the sky-diving mishap took place.
        He was honing his skill at sky-diving in west central Morocco near the Atlas Mountains when his parachute failed to open, and he tumbled from 13,000 feet onto an airfield, breaking his pelvis and his arms, gravely injuring one leg and suffering internal bleeding.
        Mr. Ritchie said he tried throughout the fall to get his chute to open. It opened partly near the end of his descent, saving his life. An aerial ambulance flew him to Britain, where underwent a series of operations.
        Mr. Ritchie; Mr. Branson, the chairman of Virgin Atlantic Airways among other companies; and Per Lindstrand, the president of Lindstrand Balloons of Britain, were crewmates last year in their failed attempt to become the first to circumnavigate the globe by balloon. Mr. Branson was the captain and main sponsor of the balloon, the Virgin Global Challenger.
        Mr. Ritchie, like Mr. Branson, was drawn by the challenge of trying to fly a balloon around the world. Not long after the unsuccessful flight, Mr. Branson said: ''As I was sitting in the capsule while our balloon was plunging uncontrolled toward the earth, the thought crossed my mind that maybe a round-the-world flight really is impossible. But we stopped our descent in time to avoid a crash, and I've come back to my conviction that circumnavigation is possible. I'd put money on someone doing it 24 months from today.''
        The Virgin Global Challenger took off from Marrakesh, Morocco. After the near-crash, Mr. Lindstrand said that before the takeoff someone had neglected to remove the safety catches that held fast a half-dozen sizable fuel tanks to the exterior of the balloon's crew capsule.
        He ascribed the oversight to too much work and too little sleep by the ground crew during preparations.
        ''After we were up,'' Mr. Lindstrand said in an interview, ''we got an emergency message from the ground that the safety catches had been accidentally left on. That meant we couldn't release any of the tanks from inside the pressurized capsule if we needed to jettison them.''
        It did become essential to release the catches, and to do so, someone had to crawl out from the crew capsule after the balloon descended to an altitude at which the gondola's hatch could be opened. On the evening after takeoff, the balloon got down to 10,000 feet. But then a vicious air current forced the balloon to bobble. The craft began a crash-dive toward the earth.
        Trying to get the balloon to regain buoyancy, the crew threw all loose objects out of the gondola. And then, in a last-ditch measure, Mr. Ritchie clambered atop the capsule, perched there and unfastened the fuel containers, which came loose in the nick of time to halt its deadly descent.
        Afterward, the crew decided to abort the mission and to land, because losses in supplies, helium and fuel had rendered their flight impossible. The balloon landed in the Sahara after less than a day in the air, and Mr. Branson said: ''We owe a debt of gratitude to Alex. He saved our lives.''
        In addition to his son Duncan, Mr. Ritchie is survived by his wife, Jill, and by another son, Alasdair.
      