
        Bahi Ladgham, who as Prime Minister of Tunisia became the head of an Arab committee formed in 1970 to make peace between the Jordanian Government and Palestinian guerrillas, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Tunis.
        He had been under treatment at a hospital in Paris recently, the official Tunisian news agency TAP reported, according to Reuters, which did not say where he had died.
        Mr. Ladgham, who was for years the second-ranking figure in Tunisia's Government and its ruling party -- and was known as ''the silent chief.'' He was a colleague of the Tunisian leader Habib Bourguiba during and after the struggle for independence from France. Tunisia, which had been a French protectorate, gained independence in 1956.
        From 1957 to 1969 Mr. Ladgham had the title of Secretary of State to the Presidency, and was concurrently Secretary of State for Defense. He bore the title of Prime Minister in 1969 and 1970, still under President Bourguiba.
        From 1953 to 1973 he was secretary general of what was called the Neo-Destour Party and later the Socialist Desturian Party. The party was dedicated to the fight for independence and then became the ruling party of independent Tunisia.
        He was named the head of the Arab peace committee in Jordan in September 1970 after a brief but bloody and destructive civil war between the Jordanian Army and Palestinian forces in Jordan -- which ended with the guerrillas on the defensive. The committee was formed after a cease-fire accord was signed in that month in Cairo by King Hussein of Jordan and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat.
        But despite the Cairo pact and subsequent Palestinian-Jordanian agreements, further battles took place between the two sides, and Jordanian troops pushed to drive the Palestinians out of populated sites.
        At a news conference in Cairo in April 1971 Mr. Ladgham accused the Jordanian authorities of having obstructed his peace mission in Jordan. He charged them with flouting the Cairo accord's terms and with striving to ''liquidate'' the Palestinian movement step by step.
        While he was still concerned with events in Jordan, he was succeeded as Tunisia's Prime Minister in November 1970 by Hedi Nouira. It has been said that the switch came because President Bourguiba wanted to introduce a new economic policy. In 1973 Mr. Ladgham retired from politics.
        He was born in Tunis and graduated from Sadiki College, which has been called the cradle of Tunisian nationalism. As an active nationalist, he was arrested in 1939 and sentenced to prison for plotting against the state's security. He was freed after World War II.
        In 1953, while he was stationed in New York as representative of the Neo-Destour Party, he was recognized by the Asian-African bloc as the official spokesman at the United Nations of the Tunisian nationalists.
        In May of that year, news reports from Tunis said that 200 young Muslims had tried to invade the city's Jewish quarter and had provoked an Arab-Jewish riot.
        Mr. Ladgham issued a statement saying the Tunisian nationalist movement was not anti-Jewish and challenging the French authorities to permit an international investigating body to see whether ''our Jewish brothers'' were being attacked.
        He contended that the French had maliciously tried to exaggerate a ''minor fracas'' into an ''anti-Semitic outrage.'' He said: ''This is a viciously unjust libel on our people, who have enjoyed for centuries good friendly relations with their Jewish fellow-countrymen. We repudiate any suggestion that our people are anti-Semitic.''
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      