
        Richard Bellamy, a New York art dealer whose Green Gallery was one of the most important showcases of avant-garde art during the American art explosion of the early 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Long Island City, Queens. He was 70.
        He died in his sleep, said his son, Miles.
        A boyish, usually stylishly disheveled man with a charming, somewhat nervous manner, Mr. Bellamy was known for his brilliant eye, his skill at installing exhibitions, his love of tennis, his ''towering modesty'' (as his shyness was sometimes called) and his devotion to new art and its creators. The names and locations of his galleries varied, as did their efficiency and public hours, but for more than four decades he was rarely without one, or at least an office for private dealing.
        Richard Hu Bellamy was born in Cincinnati in 1927, the only child of parents who had met at medical school. His father was a doctor. His mother, who was from a Chinese missionary family that sent its daughters to the United States to be educated, never practiced medicine. Mr. Bellamy credited her with his lifelong passion for music and literature and said that the small jade sculptures she brought with her from China triggered his first understanding of beauty.
        He enrolled in the University of Ohio in Cincinnati, quitting after one semester. In 1949, at the suggestion of a friend who was also interested in art, he visited Provincetown, Mass., known for its summer art colony, and stayed, discovering that he enjoyed the company of artists. He supported himself with odd jobs and worked briefly as a radio announcer on WCNX in Middletown, Conn., until he was caught reading ''The Waste Land'' over the air, and dismissed.
        Mr. Bellamy settled in New York in the early 1950's, and soon began working as director of the Hansa Gallery, a new cooperative on East 10th Street whose members included Allan Kaprow, Alfred Leslie, George Segal, Richard Stankiewicz, Jean Follett, Robert Whitman and Jan Muller.
        Hansa closed in 1959, and Mr. Bellamy opened the Green Gallery in 1960 with backing from the collector Robert Scull. The gallery's meteoric five-year life spanned an unusually fertile period in New York art: in the wake of Abstract Expressionism, a  new generation of artists, diverse in talent, was giving shape to esthetic tendencies that would soon be labeled Color Field painting, Pop Art and Minimalism.
        Mr. Bellamy gave first or second shows to a remarkable number of these emerging artists, building an exhibition record that speaks for itself. The Green Gallery had the first exhibitions of Claes Oldenburg's soft sculptures, the first exhibition of Donald Judd's cadmium red light sculptures and the first three shows of Robert Morris's work. Others on the list included Mr. Segal, Mark di Suvero, Tom Wesselman, Yayoi Kusama, Larry Poons, Jo Baer, Lee Bontecou and Lucas Samaras. But, disconcerted by lack of sales, Mr. Scull withdrew his support and the gallery closed in 1965. Mr. Bellamy placed many of the artists with Leo Castelli, another leading gallery.
        After Green, Mr. Bellamy continued to show young artists and always kept up with developments on the art scene, but he also turned to artists he considered unjustly neglected or whose work was unwieldy, like the large-scale sculpture of Mr. di Suvero, whom Mr. Bellamy continued to represent until his own death.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, Mr. Bellamy rented an office in the gallery of Noah Goldowsky on Madison Avenue, where he organized exhibitions of the work of Richard Artschwager, Peter Young, Keith Sonnier and Richard Serra. He also became a trusted adviser to collectors, museums and younger art dealers, and in the late 1980's and early 90's was partner to the dealer Barbara Flynn in her gallery at 113 Crosby Street in SoHo.
        In 1980, he opened one of the first galleries in TriBeCa, on an upper floor of a building on Chambers Street that had sweeping views of the Hudson. Here he often worked with artists who showed infrequently, or were known for a certain reclusiveness. These included Mr. Leslie, Ms. Baer, Michael Heizer, Neil Jenney, Richard Nonas and Mr. di Suvero, for whom he organized retrospectives at the Storm King Art Center, Mountainville, N.Y., in 1985 and 1995.
        By 1985, Mr. Bellamy had moved  to a pier on the East River in Long Island City, where Mr. di Suvero already had a large studio. Devoting most of his time to Mr. di Suvero's career, he ceased to have regular hours, but oversaw a changing display that could be seen by appointment of works by the artists whose work he loved most.
        A memorial service is to be held on May 13 at 3 P.M. at the P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art, 22-25 Jackson Avenue at 46th Avenue, Long Island City.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Bellamy is survived by his companion, Sally Gross, and her children, Rachel and Sedonia, all of New York City.
        Correction:  April 4, 1998, Saturday  An obituary of the art dealer Richard Bellamy yesterday misidentified one of the artists whose work he exhibited at his Green Gallery in the early 1960's. She was Lee Lozana, not Lee Bontecou.
      