
        Ivan Tcherepnin, a composer and for 25 years the director of Harvard University's Electronic Music Studio, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 55.
        The cause was liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Tcherepnin was descended from musicians on both sides of his family. His Russian father, Aleksandr, and grandfather, Nikolai Tcherepnin, were composers, conductors and pianists. His Chinese-born mother, Lee Hsien-Ming, was the first female pianist to graduate from Shanghai Conservatory.
        Mr. Tcherepnin (pronounced chuh-REP-nin) was born on Feb. 5, 1943, in Paris, where his parents resided during the World War II years. The family moved to the United States in 1948. At Harvard University, he studied composition with Randall Thompson and Leon Kirchner. During that period, with a traveling fellowship from Harvard, he also studied in Europe with Karlheinz Stockhausen and Pierre Boulez. After Harvard, he taught at San Francisco Conservatory and Stanford University, during which time he came under the influence of John Cage and the avant-garde pianist David Tudor.
        The diversity of his teachers was reflected in the stylistic diversity of his music. His early works had aspects of his Western and Asian heritage, and folk music remained a thematic source in many of his later works as well. But as he developed, his music increasingly embraced complex procedures and aspects of serialism. Mixing electronic and acoustic instruments in bracing ways was a hallmark of his style.
        Commenting on the music of his former student, Mr. Kirchner, reached yesterday in Cambridge, Mass., said: ''Ivan was wonderfully sympathetic and loyal to his family tradition. But he changed constantly and came into his own. He taught harmony at Harvard, where he was a mainstay of the music faculty. And by grappling with harmony so thoroughly, his own musical language grew more distinctive and intricate.''
        In 1996, Mr. Tcherepnin's Double Concerto for Violin, Cello and Orchestra won the $150,000 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award. In a gesture that reflected the composer's commitment to music education, the premiere was given by the Greater Boston Youth Symphony Orchestra, with the violinist Lynn Chang and the cellist Yo-Yo Ma as soloists. Mr. Tcherepnin was an active organizer in the musical life of the Boston area.
        He is survived by his wife, Sue-Ellen Herschman-Tcherepnin, a Boston-based flutist; a daughter; three children from a previous marriage, and two brothers.
      