
        Kenichi Fukui, a Japanese theoretical and physical chemist who was one of two winners of the 1981 Nobel Prize for chemistry, died on Friday in a hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 79 and lived in Kyoto.
        The cause was cancerous peritonitis, his family said, according to Japan Economic Newswire.
        Dr. Fukui was 63 when he won the Nobel Prize jointly with Dr. Roald Hoffmann, 44, chairman of the chemistry department at Cornell University.
        Dr. Fukui's share of the prize was for his work in explaining chemical reactions -- work that had been neglected by the rest of the world for years. Dr. Hoffmann won for arriving at similar theories on his own.
        The scientists' prize-winning work entailed using the theories of quantum mechanics -- a mathematical theory about the way molecules and atoms behave -- to forecast the course of chemical reactions.
        Dr. Fukui retired in 1982 as a professor of physical chemistry at Kyoto University, where he lectured and taught for 39 years. He was the sixth Japanese Nobel Prize-winner and the first Japanese winner in chemistry.
        After his death, Heisuke Hironaka, president of Yamaguchi University in Japan, said that Dr. Fukui ''was exceptionally good at mathematics, understood quantum mechanics thoroughly'' and by applying it to chemistry, ''he opened up a whole new history in the field of chemistry.''
        At the time Dr. Fukui and Dr. Hoffmann won their prize, Andrew Streitwieser Jr., professor of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley, said, ''Our whole approach to chemistry and the way we think about reactions has changed because of the work of these men.''
        It was more than a quarter century before Dr. Fukui won the prize that he undertook the work that earned his share of it: He demonstrated that a molecule's chemical reactivity was profoundly influenced by various characteristics of the orbits of its electrons.
        And yet what came to be known as his frontier-orbitals theory was little noticed at first. In 1981, Americans well versed in his field suggested that the cause of that inattention was that his scientific articles had come out in journals whose contents were in Japanese, or in English-language journals whose readership among chemists was scant. Those Americans also contended that his mathematics was over the heads of most practicing chemists.
        In 1981 Dr. Fukui was made a foreign associate of the National Academy of Sciences. He was also awarded Japanese honors including the Order of Culture.
        He was born in Nara Prefecture and received his doctorate at Kyoto University in 1948.
        He married Tomoe Hori in 1947 and they had a son and a daughter, Tetsuya and Miyako.
      