
        German Emilio Ornes, the influential publisher of the newspaper El Caribe in the Dominican Republic and a longtime champion of freedom of the press in Latin America, died on Tuesday at his home in Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        The Miami-based Spanish-language newspaper Diario Las Americas said yesterday that Mr. Ornes was ''one of the most renowned and outstanding journalists of the continent'' and that his death was ''a loss for free journalism worldwide.''
        Mr. Ornes had also been El Caribe's editor in earlier years. Mr. Ornes defended journalistic freedoms in Latin America, where they have often been assailed. In 1975, as a prominent figure in the Inter-American Press Association, he declared that freedom of the press in the Western Hemisphere was in jeopardy more than ever before.
        He delivered a report to the association spelling out that warning, saying publications throughout the hemisphere were plagued by terrorism, dictatorships, censorship, threats of legal actions and other ills.
        In 1985 he contended before the seven-member Inter-American Human Rights Court -- part of the Organization of American States -- that obligatory licensing of journalists under national statutes violated the right of free expression. The court took that view in its ruling. In 1996 El Caribe criticized attacks on reporters chronicling the Dominican presidential elections that year.
        Mr. Ornes was born in Puerto Plata, a Dominican seaport, and received a law degree from the University of Santo Domingo in 1944 after leading a youth group opposed to the dictator, Rafael Trujillo. Mr. Ornes went on to work as a lawyer and journalist, and in a 1965 interview he said he had been jailed for several weeks in 1946 after a plot against Trujillo had been uncovered.
        But when Trujillo founded El Caribe in 1948, Mr. Ornes became its managing editor. He became the paper's publisher in 1954, and bought the paper that year. In 1955, while visiting New Orleans, he decided to break with Trujillo and become an exile. El Caribe was seized by the Government.
        Mr. Ornes became a newspaper editor in Puerto Rico.
        After Trujillo was assassinated in 1961, Mr. Ornes returned to the Dominican Republic and regained control of El Caribe.
        His survivors include his wife, Virginia. Information about other survivors was not immediately available.
      