
        James B. Conkling, a music and broadcasting executive who helped create the Grammy Awards and the Columbia Record Club, died on Sunday at the Sutter Oaks Alzheimer's Hospital in Sacramento, Calif., where he had been living. He was 83.
        The cause was pneumonia and diabetes, said his wife, Donna.
        Mr. Conkling was the head of artists and repertory at Capitol Records, the president of Columbia Records and the first president of Warner Brothers Records. After 20 years in top executive positions at the Bonneville International Corporation, the media company owned by the Mormon Church, he was named by President Ronald Reagan to direct the Voice of America.
        Mr. Conkling was born in East Orange, N.J., graduated from Dartmouth College and attended graduate school at the University of Pennsylvania. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he went to work for Capitol, and at the end of the 1940's was the vice president in charge of artists and repertory, working with performers like Nat (King) Cole, Peggy Lee and Stan Kenton.
        He became president of Columbia Records in 1951. There, he was instrumental in establishing the 12-inch LP as a medium for popular music, which had previously been sold on singles and 10-inch EP's. He kept the price under $4 an LP by convincing publishers to lower their royalties temporarily for songs on LP's.
        Noting the sales of classical music through record clubs, he also started the Columbia Record Club (now Columbia House), which sold pop and jazz along with classical music by mail order.
        In 1957, he helped found the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which awards the Grammys, and then became chairman of the academy. He built membership by selling discounted albums to members. ''Without Jim, there would have been no academy,'' said the producer George Avakian, who worked with Mr. Conkling at Columbia.
        In 1958, Mr. Conkling became the first president of Warner Brothers Records. He stayed until 1961, when he started Bonneville. In 1981 he was appointed director of the Voice of America, but resigned 10 months later after criticism that he was trying to tilt the broadcast service toward anti-Communist propaganda. In the late 1980's, he visited China as a consultant to the Chinese recording industry.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by five children, Candy Brand, Jamie Miller, Chris Conkling, Alexandra Albright and Laurette Walton; 23 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      