
        Pol Pot, who created in Cambodia one of the 20th century's most brutal and radical regimes, died on Wednesday of heart failure, according to his Cambodian jailers. He was 73 years old.
        Already enfeebled from malaria, Pol Pot had become seriously ill in recent months while under house arrest by some of his former allies. In the last two weeks he was encircled by the Cambodian Government Army and had retreated farther into the jungle. His wife said he died in his sleep.
        Pol Pot conducted a rule of terror that led to the deaths of nearly a quarter of Cambodia's seven million people, by the most widely accepted estimates, through execution, torture, starvation and disease.
        His smiling face and quiet manner belied his brutality. He and his inner circle of revolutionaries adopted a Communism based on Maoism and Stalinism, then carried it to extremes: They and their Khmer Rouge movement tore apart Cambodia in an attempt to ''purify'' the country's agrarian society and turn people into revolutionary worker-peasants.
        Beginning on the day in 1975 when his guerrilla army marched silently into the capital, Phnom Penh, Pol Pot emptied the cities, pulled families apart,abolished religion and closed schools. Everyone was ordered to work, even children. The Khmer Rouge outlawed money and closed all markets. Doctors were killed, as were most people with skills and education that threatened the regime.
        The Khmer Rouge especially persecuted members of minority ethnic groups -- the Chinese, Muslim Chams, Vietnamese and Thais who had lived for generations in the country, and any other foreigners -- in an attempt to make one ''pure'' Cambodia. Non-Cambodians were forbidden to speak their native languages or to exhibit any ''foreign'' traits. The pogrom against the Cham minority was the most devastating, killing more than half of that community.
        Assassination He Ordered Becomes His Undoing
        Though Pol Pot was responsible for an untold number of deaths, he never faced charges until July 1997, when some of his former Khmer Rouge followers turned on him, denounced him for crimes against humanity in a carefully scripted show trial and put him under house arrest for life.
        Pol Pot had incurred the wrath of his former allies by ordering the assassination of a political associate. In a pattern he established when he was in power, Pol Pot blamed Son Sen for his fading grip on the movement. He not only ordered Son Sen killed, but also told followers to execute more than a dozen of his relatives, including grandchildren.
        In a magazine interview in October 1997, the sickly ex-dictator expressed regrets about the deaths of his rival's family: ''You know, for the other people, the babies, the young ones, I did not order them to be killed.''
        The interview, with Nate Thayer for the Far Eastern Economic Review, portrayed a man succumbing to age, bored and preoccupied with his aches and pains, but free of remorse. ''I came to carry out the struggle, not to kill people,'' he told his questioner. ''Even now, and you can look at me: am I a savage person?''
        Many experts on Southeast Asia as well as the Cambodians who endured his rule would answer him with a resounding ''Yes.''
        But Pol Pot, while acknowledging that ''our movement made mistakes,'' insisted that he had ordered killings in self-defense, to save Cambodia from its Vietnamese enemies, and that the numbers of dead were wildly exaggerated.
        Yet even today his legacy fractures the country with continuing violence, political feuds, corruption and social fragility.
        Pol Pol's army captured the capital on April 17, 1975, after a devastating five-year civil war. During it, the United States dropped more bombs on Cambodia in its campaign against Pol Pot than it had unleashed on Japan during World War II. After it, with breathtaking speed, Pol Pot and his black-clad followers immediately ordered weary Cambodians to leave their homes for the countryside and begin life at ''Year Zero.'' After three years of terror, he was driven from power in 1979 by an invasion from neighboring Vietnam.
        From then on, Pol Pot used the geopolitics of the cold war to his advantage, convincing most of Asia and the non-Communist world that his Khmer Rouge Government was unlawfully thrown out by Vietnam. His exiled government retained the political recognition of the United States and much of the world throughout the 1980's while Vietnamese-occupied Cambodia was placed under severe international sanctions.
        Until the approach of internationally supervised elections in 1992, the Khmer Rouge occupied Cambodia's seat at the United Nations and took the leading role in agencies like Unesco.
        Pol Pot was one of the most secretive of national leaders. His bland face and unthreatening manner, his self-effacement, his rare and turgid public statements and his life in hiding -- even during his years of absolute power -- were some of his chief tactics in keeping his rivals off balance and his hold over his followers.
        There was little evident in Pol Pot's background to suggest any personal drama. Since his childhood, the phrases used to describe him were uninspiring: polite, mediocre, soft-spoken, patient, even shy.
        Still, people who knew him described him as warm and reassuring, especially in small groups.
        An Interviewer Describes His Personal Appeal
        One of the few Western journalists to interview him, Elizabeth Becker, now an editor at The New York Times, described his personal appeal in her book ''When the War Was Over'' (Simon & Schuster, 1986).
        ''He was actually elegant, with a pleasing face, not handsome but attractive,'' she wrote. ''His features were delicate and alert and his smile nearly endearing. There was no question of his appeal. Physically, he had a strong, comfortable appearance. His gestures and manner were polished, not crude.''
        In an hourlong interview she had with Pol Pot just weeks before his fall, he railed against Vietnam but never raised his voice, Ms. Becker wrote. ''At most he nodded his head slightly or flicked his dainty wrist for emphasis,'' she added.
        Pol Pot was less comfortable and revealing in a larger arena, making few public appearances even when in power, obscuring his identity, changing residences and warning of treachery from every quarter. When he had a stomach ailment, he said his cooks were trying to poison him. When the power at his residence failed, he had the maintenance workers killed.
        This fear of treachery -- by foreign nations or by poisonous ''microbes'' within his own organization -- motivated much of his behavior, from his secretiveness to the bloody purges that began to consume his revolution beginning in 1977.
        Speaking to a party cadre in 1976, he said: ''We search for the microbes within the party without success; they are buried. As our socialist revolution advances, however, seeping into every corner of the party, the army and among the people, we can locate the ugly microbes.''
        Pol Pot surrounded himself with men from his early years, those who originally joined the Vietnamese-dominated Communists or others with closer roots to Thai Communists, including Nuon Chea, Khieu Samphan and Son Sen. But he held the kind of absolute power that Stalin had in the Soviet Union.
        As a revolutionary, he took the name Pol Pot, which has no particular meaning. He was born Saloth Sar in 1925, in a village near Kompong Thom, 90 miles north of Phnom Penh, the eighth of nine children of a land-owning farmer named Pen Saloth and his wife, Nok Sem.
        A Student in Paris Turns Rabid Communist
        At the age of 6 he was sent, like many Cambodian children, to live with more prosperous relatives -- in his case a brother who worked in Phnom Penh as a clerk at the royal palace and a cousin who was a dancer there in the Royal Ballet.
        Soon after his arrival he spent several months in a Buddhist monastery, a much briefer exposure to Buddhist teaching than was common in Cambodia, where most schooling was conducted by monks.
        He completed primary school but failed his exams to enter high school and studied carpentry at a trade school.
        In his 20's, he received a Government scholarship to study radio technology in France, where he spent three years and became involved in Communist activities at a time when the French party was dominated by Stalinists. It was there that he began his long association with Mr. Son Sen, Ieng Sary and others who became members of his inner circle.
        It was also there that he met his future wife, Khieu Ponnary, a schoolteacher several years his senior whose sister was married to Mr. Ieng Sary.
        Pol Pot claimed to have been a good student when he first arrived in Paris. ''Later I joined the progressive student movement,'' he told the Vietnam News Agency in 1976. ''As I spent more of my time in radical activities, I did not attend many classes.''
        Others said he passed much of his time reading French poetry, and in 1950 he spent a month working on a highway project in Yugoslavia.
        While in Paris he published his first tract, an attack on the Cambodian royalty. It was the King, Norodom Sihanouk, who dubbed this movement the Khmer Rouge, or Red Cambodians.
        Eventually the conservative Government of the young King, which was under French colonial rule, canceled his scholarship and he returned home, where he dedicated himself to the underground Communist movement.
        In 1954 at the Geneva Convention, Vietnam was split into the Communist north and non-Communist south, and Cambodia became independent. Hoping to remain in power, King Sihanouk demoted himself to Prince and led his own political party to victory in the first elections. He was promptly made head of state.
        In 1956, while continuing his underground activities, Pol Pot married Khieu Ponnary and became a teacher of French, history, geography and civics at a private high school.
        Rising to the Top Of the Party He Founded
        In 1960, in an out-of-the-way corner of the Phnom Penh railway yard, Pol Pot met secretly with other Cambodian Communists and helped create Cambodia's own Communist party, the Khmer Workers Party, separate from the old Vietnamese-dominated Indochinese Communist Party. Within two years, he rose to be its leader.
        Fearing arrest, he fled in 1963 to Vietnam, along with Mr. Ieng Sary and Mr. Son Sen, and for the next decade lived in hiding, a pattern that held for most of his life.
        Visiting China on the eve of the Cultural Revolution, Pol Pot observed many of the patterns he later instituted in his own country, from revolutionary theory to the soft Chinese-style hats adopted by the Khmer Rouge.
        The widening war in Vietnam fueled the Communist movement in Cambodia, and after a peasant uprising in Battambang Province in 1967, Pol Pot began his move into armed rebellion. By 1970 he had 3,000 fighters under arms.
        For years the Vietnamese Communists used Cambodia to buy rice, to transport weapons and to channel soldiers from North Vietnam to the South along the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Prince Sihanouk and his Government -- intent on getting along with the Vietnamese Communists, who the Prince believed were likely to win the war -- never protested the intrusions.
        Nor did he protest when the Americans began bombing suspected Vietnamese positions in eastern Cambodia. The bombing forced the Vietnamese to move deeper into Cambodia, and the Khmer Rouge spread with them.
        Prince Sihanouk found himself criticized,  particularly by the Cambodian Army, for playing both sides of the Vietnam War. In March 1970 the National Assembly deposed  him while he was abroad, replacing him with pro-American officials led by his previously loyal Prime Minister, Gen. Lon Nol.
        Furious, the Prince joined sides with the Khmer Rouge and soon Cambodia was plunged into the Vietnam War. Within months the Vietnamese Communists and their Khmer Rouge allies controlled vast areas of the country.
        In 1973, after the United States signed the Paris Peace Accords with the Vietnamese Communists, American B-52's dropped huge quantities of bombs on suspected Khmer Rouge positions in Cambodia to try to prevent a Communist victory there. Phnom Penh became a swollen refugee center, and many displaced or angry villagers flocked to join the Khmer Rouge army. By the time of its victory in 1975, the army had grown to a force of 70,000, a growth aided by the prestige of Prince Sihanouk, who in one of his many political hairpin turns became titular president of the movement.
        Tougher, more disciplined and more brutal than the American-backed forces of Gen. Lon Nol, the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh two weeks before the Communists took Saigon, with Pol Pot as a leading commander and political strategist.
        By the time Pol Pot himself entered the city, on April 23, 1975, 12 years after he had fled into the jungles, the capital was silent and deserted.
        From the very start, his troops pushed radical plans to turn the nation upside down.
        Everyone -- the elderly, the blind, the sick, even infants -- was ordered right away to ''return to the villages.'' The Angkar, or organization, ruled in resettlements called rural cooperatives that resembled the Soviet Gulag. Some 20,000 hospital patients were forced to move out, some on wheeled beds. Tens of thousands of people died of starvation and disease in the first weeks of the revolution's victory.
        Many others were killed outright: soldiers from the defeated army, bureaucrats, merchants, ''parasites,'' ''intellectuals.''
        In his victory speech, Pol Pot claimed that his Communists would build a revolutionary society, becoming ''a prosperous country with an advanced agriculture and industry'' so that ''our people's standard of living will be rapidly improved.''
        To that end, Pot Pot made Cambodia one of the most isolated countries in the world, shutting its borders, restricting all but a very few foreign diplomats to their chanceries in an eerily quiet Phnom Penh. Prince Sihanouk, the first President, was confined to his palace and then to a guest house.
        Meanwhile, the radical experiment was destroying the country. The slave labor gangs were not producing the food required. With no outside contacts, the country's stocks were becoming depleted. The huge public works projects, especially in irrigation, were shoddily made and fell apart.
        Numbering the Dead In the Millions
        But Pol Pot refused to believe that his revolution was to blame. He looked for scapegoats: first the Cambodians loyal to the old regime, then Communist leaders of select regions of the country, then key Communist leaders close to him. These suspected ''enemies'' were arrested and taken to security centers, including Tuol Sleng in Phnom Penh, where they were tortured to confess to imagined crimes and then killed.
        Pol Pot was ordering the deaths of his closest comrades as the Vietnamese invaded the country.
        Because of the closed nature of the country, it remained unclear to outsiders what was happening, and reports by refugees of the horrors of Democratic Kampuchea were often met with disbelief.
        The full picture emerged only in 1979, when the Vietnamese conquerors of Cambodia allowed in foreigners, and hundreds of thousands of sick and starving refugees poured into Thailand.
        In the name of a radical utopia, the Khmer Rouge regime had turned most of the people into slaves. Husbands were separated from wives, parents from children. Holidays, music, romance and entertainment were banned. Dictatorial village leaders and soldiers told the people whom to marry and how to live, and those who disobeyed were killed. Children informed on their parents; many other youngsters who did not bend to the political mania were buried alive, or tossed into the air and speared on bayonets. Some were fed to crocodiles.
        Religion and prayer were outlawed. Buddhist monks were murdered and temples were razed.
        Communal work brigades were formed to farm, clear forests and dig canals. Almost all the work was done by hand, without machinery, and people were forced to labor from dawn until late night.
        Thousands died from malnutrition, thousands from overwork.
        Thousands were jailed, to be tortured and die. The meticulous records kept by the Khmer Rouge of the people they tortured to death proved to be among the most valuable documents establishing their crimes.
        Above all, though, were the mass graves and killing fields uncovered after the Khmer Rouge defeat.
        Vietnam Puts an End To the Awfulness
        Instead of utopia, the Khmer Rouge had brought ruin.
        The regime's downfall came after Pol Pot attacked Vietnam and tried to seize territory along the frontier. On Dec. 25, 1978, Vietnamese troops crossed the border in strength and soon there were 200,000 Vietnamese inside Cambodia. Within two weeks they occupied Phnom Penh and much of the rest of Cambodia, overthrowing Pol Pot.
        In the years that followed, the struggle for control of Cambodia continued, with China and Thailand giving Pol Pot and his circle refuge, medical care and military support in a game of anti-Vietnamese and anti-Soviet geopolitics.
        In an evident effort to improve their image and retain their seat at the United Nations, the Khmer Rouge announced in 1980 that they were no longer Communist and now favored democracy, religious tolerance and free enterprise.
        Over the years further announcements were made that Pol Pot had resigned from various posts, culminating in 1985 with one that said he had stepped down as military commander. Few believed those declarations.
        After a comprehensive peace settlement providing for Cambodian elections was signed in Paris in 1991, Thailand ceased to recognize Democratic Kampuchea or to give refuge to Pol Pot and his entourage. He is believed to have gone back then to living in a jungle headquarters in Cambodia before his recent overthrow by his former followers.
        Earlier, Pol Pot's wife was hospitalized in Beijing with a nervous breakdown, and with her permission he remarried in 1987 and had a daughter with his second wife.
        His hardened army, still in their black clothes and sandals, dwindled after the United Nations peace plan, with thousands of soldiers and their families abandoning the mountain stronghold for offers of amnesty from the Government and a chance to lead normal lives. At the time of Pol Pot's death, the Khmer Rouge ranks numbered only in the hundreds.
        Though by all accounts Pol Pot remained unremorseful throughout his years in power and in exile, Steve Heder, an American scholar on Cambodia, reported a curious account from a supporter who visited him in 1981.
        ''He said that he knows that many people in the country hate him and think he's responsible for the killings,'' the supporter said of Pol Pot. ''He said that he knows many people died. When he said this he nearly broke down and cried. There were people to whom he felt very close, and he trusted them completely. Then in the end they made a mess of everything.''
        In the interview last fall, Pol Pot was asked if he thought his young daughter would be proud later to call herself his daughter. ''I don't know about that,'' he said. ''It's up to history to judge.''
        DEATH OF POL POT
      