
        Paul M. O'Leary, an economist who oversaw the rationing program during World War II, died Jan. 1 at the Kendal at Ithaca nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 96.
        Dr. O'Leary served on the faculty of Cornell University from 1924 until 1967, taking several leaves to join other economists from Eastern universities in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ''brain trust.'' During the Depression he was an aide to the consumer advisory board of the National Recovery Administration and later was chief economic analyst for the Commerce Department.
        His most prominent role, however, was running the rationing program as the deputy chief of the Office of Price Administration in the early years of World War II. Mr. O'Leary oversaw the distribution of the books of paper coupons required for purchases of fuel, food and other commodities. It was a job that forced Mr. O'Leary, described at the time as plain-spoken, to deny many people and industries the goods they wanted.
        Faced with what he called a desperate situation in September 1942, Mr. O'Leary decreed that any apartment building or commercial building that could convert to burning coal had to do so to help ease the shortage of fuel oil to heat homes.
        Later that year, he decided to ration coffee purchases to one pound every five weeks -- about one cup a day -- despite criticism that there was no need to allocate what was hardly a nutritional requirement.
        ''We're not making semi-moralistic distinctions between necessary foods and so-called luxury foods,'' he told The Associated Press in 1942. ''We don't feel that it is our business to tell people what they should eat and drink.''
        In August 1943, Mr. O'Leary resigned after disputes with Prentiss M. Brown, the new head of the Office of Price Administration, who opposed the methods of the ''professors and theorists'' in the agency. Mr. Brown had dismissed John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economics professor, who had been in charge of the agency's price-setting division.
        Mr. O'Leary returned to Cornell, and in 1946 served as the first dean of its newly formed business school. In 1951, he became dean of the college of arts and sciences. In 1957, he returned to teaching and research in his specialty, American financial history.
        Mr. O'Leary was born in Lawrenceville, Kan., and studied at the University of Kansas and Harvard before receiving a doctorate from Cornell in 1929. He was the widower of Harriet Barton O'Leary. He is survived by a brother, Theodore O'Leary of Shawnee Mission, Kan.
      