
        L. Clure Morton, a retired Federal chief judge in Tennessee who furthered racial integration in Nashville's public schools and prompted reforms in the state's mental health, welfare and prison systems, died on April 11 at the University of Tennessee Hospital in his native Knoxville. He was 82 and lived in Nashville.
        In his 25 years on the Federal bench, Judge Morton was a stickler for the law and court rules, applying them whether he personally agreed with them or not. He was no supporter of school busing but, in 1971, strictly followed Federal law in ordering a big increase in the busing of blacks to bring about racial balance in the Nashville schools.
        His decision loomed large in the election campaigns in Tennessee in 1972, produced death threats, made him a social outcast in Nashville and prompted him to hold court in Cookeville, 80 miles to the east. He showed no mercy to narcotics dealers convicted before him and was known in court circles as Maximum Morton for his stern sentences.
        The judge, citing the Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade, struck down Tennessee's abortion law in 1973 as unconstitutional. He ordered the State Correction Department in 1982 to sharply reduce the number of state prisoners because of overcrowding, prison violence and lack of rehabilitation programs.
        Leland Clure Morton graduated from the University of Tennessee in 1934 and its law school two years later. He practiced law in Knoxville except for a stint as a special Federal agent in Latin America in the 1950's. In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon named him a United States District Judge in the Middle District of Tennessee, based in Nashville.
        He was chief judge from 1977 to 1984, when he took senior status. He retired from the bench two years ago, at the age of 80.
        ''I've practiced the law for 35 years, and I've been a judge for 25 years,'' he told The Nashville Banner then. ''That means I've been in this racket for 60 years. I'm tired.''
        A soft-spoken man, he had a whimsical side. He once gave a church deacon found guilty of fraud a choice of jail or standing up in church and telling parishioners whom he had cheated. The deacon chose to tell.
        Judge Morton's wife, Marjorie Hernandez Morton, died four years ago after nearly 50 years of marriage. He is survived by a brother, George W. Jr., and a sister, Alyse, both of Knoxville.
      