
        Terry Sanford, who lowered racial barriers as Governor of North Carolina in the 1960's, setting the style for a new kind of Southern politician, and later became a United States senator and Presidential candidate, died today at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said Duke University, where Mr. Sanford was treated and where he was president from 1969 to 1985.
        Until his cancer was diagnosed in December, Mr. Sanford had taught government and public policy at Duke and practiced law. He was president of the university, in Durham, after serving as Governor and before his term in the Senate.
        Mr. Sanford is credited with helping to improve education in North Carolina, first as Governor by increasing spending for public schools and universities and later as president of Duke by overseeing its expansion in areas including medicine.
        Mr. Sanford was at various times a lawyer, a member of the North Carolina State Senate, from 1953 to 1955, and, in the early 1940's, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        Mr. Sanford was Governor from 1961 to 1965, a time when civil rights demonstrations were frequently met with violence. In a speech on Jan. 18, 1963, he called for an end to job discrimination against blacks and announced the creation of a biracial panel to work toward that end.
        ''Despite great progress, the Negro's opportunity to obtain a good job has not been achieved in most places across the country,'' Mr. Sanford said. Opening more opportunities would be good for the state's economy, he said, but there was a far more compelling reason. ''We will do it because it is honest and fair for us to give all men and women their best chance in life,'' he said.
        By today's standards, those words seem unremarkable. But in January 1963, when Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama delivered his ''segregation forever'' inaugural address, Mr. Sanford's stand for civil rights was seen as particularly courageous for a governor from the old Confederacy.
        Mr. Sanford established himself as one of the most liberal Southern governors -- too liberal, in the eyes of some constituents -- as he named black people to high state positions, pushed state lawmakers to raise more money for schools and started a state anti-poverty program that was a forerunner to President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty.
        In some ways, Mr. Sanford was a contradictory politician. He seemed to have good timing but bad luck. He had shrewd instincts, yet he seemed to lack burning desire. His changes of mind and heart confounded ally and rival alike.
        Mr. Sanford was an early supporter of John F. Kennedy's quest for the Presidency, and so enjoyed easy access to the White House in the early 1960's. The President's personal secretary, Evelyn Lincoln, later wrote in a book that President Kennedy had told her he was thinking of Mr. Sanford as his running mate for 1964.
        His own liberal programs notwithstanding, Mr. Sanford preached the virtues of ''state responsibility,'' if not states' rights, as an antidote to creeping ''big Federal Government.'' Under state law, he could not succeed himself as Governor.
        He tried for the White House in 1972 and in 1976, while he was president of Duke University, offering himself as a candidate for those disenchanted with the political system and those who were part of it.
        Mr. Sanford, who had declared his support for school integration, was beaten in the 1972 North Carolina Democratic Primary by Governor Wallace of Alabama. That humiliating loss effectively ended his candidacy. Four years later, Mr. Sanford ran for President again but dropped out early. He said he had found it impossible to gain enough news coverage and to raise enough money, and that he was sick of campaigning.
        In 1986, having left Duke, Mr. Sanford ran for the Senate. When President Ronald Reagan made several appearances on behalf of his opponent, Mr. Sanford knew better than to criticize a popular President. So he suggested instead that North Carolina did not need a ''go-along senator,'' and won a narrow victory.
        In the Senate, Mr. Sanford gained a reputation for intelligence, personal decency and, in one celebrated instance, indecision. In 1987, after President Reagan had vetoed an $87.9 billion highway bill, Mr. Sanford changed his mind three times: first voting simply ''present'' on a vote to override the veto, then voting to sustain the veto and finally, under tremendous pressure from other Democrats, switching again and voting to override it. His vote made the count 67 to 33, the precise margin required to override.
        ''Nobody in the Senate thinks I caved in,'' he said later. In fact, his colleagues on both sides of the aisle were saddened at seeing him buckle.
        In 1992, Mr. Sanford appeared at first to be in good position for re-election, but he was hospitalized with a heart problem during the campaign. His opponent, Lauch Faircloth, a former Democrat and onetime friend, tried to tar him with the brush of liberalism. And Mr. Faircloth deftly made an issue of Mr. Sanford's health by publicly wishing him a speedy recovery.
        Mr. Faircloth's narrow victory ended Mr. Sanford's political life, one that had begun when he was 11: in a 1928 parade in his hometown, Laurinburg, N.C., Terry Sanford carried a sign for Alfred E. Smith, the Democratic Presidential candidate.
        Terry Sanford was born on Aug. 20, 1917. His father was a merchant and his mother a schoolteacher.
        He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1939. After a brief stint in the F.B.I., he joined the Army in 1942. That year, he married Margaret Knight of Hopkinsville, Ky.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Terry Jr., of Durham; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Hillsborough; two sisters, Mary Glenn Rose of Pennsylvania, and Helen Wilhelm of Bern, Switzerland, and two grandchildren.
        As an Army private, Mr. Sanford served as a paratrooper, taking part in the invasion of Southern France and later in the Battle of the Bulge, for which he received the Bronze Star and a Purple Heart.
        After the war, mustering out as a first lieutenant, he received his law degree from the Chapel Hill campus and became active in the North Carolina Democratic Party.
        Whether working for himself or on behalf of other Democrats, he was known as a tireless campaigner, and a cool one. While he was running for governor, the pilot of his small plane seriously misjudged a short landing strip and came within inches of touching down in a cornfield.
        Unruffled, Mr. Sanford stepped out and, grinning, helped several ashen reporters down the steps.
        ''Start picking corn, boys,'' he said before walking away.
      