
        Octavio Paz, Mexico's premier poet and essayist and one of the towering men of letters in the second half of this century, died on Sunday at a temporary residence in Mexico City. He was 84.
        President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico announced the death early yesterday as he was returning from the Summit of the Americas in Chile.  ''This is an irreplaceable loss for contemporary thought and culture -- not just for Latin America but for the entire world,'' Mr. Zedillo was quoted as saying by the Government news agency, Notimex.
        Mr. Zedillo did not give a cause of death. Last year Mr. Paz said that he was suffering from a ''long and wretched'' disease but he did not elaborate. He was cremated yesterday.
        Mr. Paz's writings ranged beyond his native land in their subject matter and reflected the cultural influences of his years abroad. His output was prolific -- more than 40 volumes of poetry and essays, many translated into dozens of languages.
        When awarding him the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1990, the Swedish Academy of Letters hailed Mr. Paz for ''impassioned writing with wide horizons, characterized by sensuous intelligence and humanistic integrity.'' The academy quoted one of Paz's poems as his literary credo:
        Between what I see and what I say
        Between what I say and what I keep silent
        Between what I keep silent and what I dream
        Between what I dream and what I forget:
        Poetry.
        Though Mr. Paz was a cerebral and not a populist poet, his death moved many Mexicans. Thousands of admirers, mighty and humble, filed past his coffin yesterday during a wake in the Fine Arts Palace in Mexico City that had all the pomp of a state funeral. At the ceremony President Zedillo paid an unusual homage to Mr. Paz, calling him a ''universal Mexican'' and praising him for his pioneering and persistent criticism of the political system that Mr. Zedillo now heads.
        The Peruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa called Mr. Paz ''one of the greatest poets that the Spanish-language world has produced.''
        Helen Vendler, professor of English at Harvard University, said Mr. Paz's ''ecstatic and fluid Spanish gave Hispanic poetry a new and transfigured dimension.''
        Yet Mr. Paz was probably even more widely read as an essayist. ''The Labyrinth of Solitude,'' his classic exploration of the formative influences on the Mexican character, became a rite of passage into the world of intellect for his compatriots and required reading for anybody interested in Mexico.
        In Latin America, artists, writers and intellectuals are often called on to act as political arbiters, lending legitimacy to governments or credibility to their opponents. Mr. Paz willingly entered the fray.
        A short, handsome man with piercing eyes and a thick mane of hair, he gained renown and drew disapproval for his centrist, sometimes conservative political views, which often sailed against the leftist tide of his fellow Latin American intellectuals.
        Octavio Paz was born in Mexico City on March 31, 1914, the son of a lawyer whose ancestors were partly Indian and a woman whose parents had emigrated from Spain. His paternal grandfather was a journalist and novelist who fought with the patriot Benito Juarez against the French occupation of Mexico in the 1860's. His father was a veteran of the Mexican Revolution of 1910 who went into exile to represent the peasant guerrilla leader Emiliano Zapata in the United States.
        Growing up in an outlying neighborhood of Mexico City, Mr. Paz once described his family's descent into genteel poverty after the revolution:  ''The house gradually crumbled around us. We had to abandon one room after another because the roofs and walls kept falling down.'' Sitting around the dining table, young Octavio listened to his elders talk about the war against the French and the revolution, a scene which he vividly captured in his poem, ''Interruptions From the West'':
        My grandfather, taking his coffee,  would talk to me about Juarez and Porfirio,  the Zouaves and the Silver Band.  And the tablecloth smelled of gunpowder.  My father, taking his drink,  would talk to me about Zapata and Villa,  Soto y Gama and the brothers Flores Magon.  And the tablecloth smelled of gunpowder.  I kept quiet:  who was there for me to talk about?
        As a boy, Mr. Paz often withdrew to his grandfather's library -- ''an enchanted cave,'' he called it -- and immersed himself in fiction from abroad: ''We were shipwrecked with Sinbad and with Robinson Crusoe, we fought with D'Artagnan, we took Valencia with the Cid.'' The foreign literature and news instilled a feeling, so common among intellectuals in third world nations earlier in this century, that he was living on the margins of history. ''For us Spanish-Americans, the present was not in our own countries: it was the time lived by others -- by the English, the French, the Germans,'' he recalled in his 1990 Nobel lecture. ''It was the time of New York, Paris, London. We had to go and look for it and bring it back home.''
        But first he struggled to establish himself as a poet and social critic in Mexico. By age 19, he had published his first volume of poetry, ''Sylvan Moon.''
        Quitting the National University of Mexico after deciding against a career in law, he founded two short-lived magazines for writers and intellectuals. Then in 1937 he went to Spain, working for the Republican Government as a propagandist in the civil war fought with the Fascists. With the Republican army crumbling before Franco, Mr. Paz moved briefly to Paris. Before the 1930's ended, he was back in Mexico, where in quick succession he edited two literary magazines while continuing to write poetry and essays.
        For a while Mr. Paz eked out a living as a minor employee in the National Archives and as a bank clerk. Then, beginning in 1945, he embarked on a 23-year career in the diplomatic service, a path favored by many Latin American intellectuals who sought to live abroad and support their writing. ''If I had stayed in Mexico, I probably would have drowned in journalism, bureaucracy or alcohol,'' Mr. Paz explained.
        As consul and ambassador, he lived in San Francisco, New York, Paris, Tokyo and New Delhi. ''My ambassadorial work was not arduous,'' he said. ''I explored new poetic worlds, knew other countries, lived other sentiments, had other ideas.''
        Everywhere, his appetite for literature was insatiable. In the United States, he devoured Walt Whitman, Hart Crane, William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound; in Europe, T. S. Eliot, Federico Garcia Lorca, the French Symbolists and Surrealists; in India, the Ramayana, the Upanishads and the Bhagavad-Gita; and in Japan, the haiku poets. They all exerted influences on the content, esthetics and structure of his poetry.
        ''I learned precision of language from Japanese poetry,'' said Mr. Paz, citing one example. ''We Latin people sometimes wax eloquent in our writing, but the Japanese teach us economy -- not to waste words.''
        His long poem, ''A Draft of Shadows,'' included these haiku-like lines:
        Like drizzle on embers,  footsteps within me step  toward places that turn to air,  and the sun razes the places as they dawn,  hesitantly, on this page.
        Similarly, he found himself drawn to the French Surrealists after his experiences in the Spanish civil war and incorporated their spirit into his poetry. ''Surrealism was not merely an esthetic, poetic and philosophical doctrine,'' he once said. ''It was a vital attitude. A negation of the contemporary world and at the same time an attempt to substitute other values for those of democratic bourgeois society: eroticism, poetry, imagination, liberty, spiritual adventure, vision.''
        Despite his long sojourns abroad, Mr. Paz never turned his back on Mexico. Indeed, his most renowned works -- ''The Labyrinth of Solitude'' and the epic poem ''Sunstone'' -- reflect his fierce passion for his native land. ''The temples and gods of pre-Columbian Mexico may be a pile of ruins,'' he said in his Nobel address. ''But the spirit that breathed life into that world has not disappeared. It speaks to us in the hermetic language of myth and legend, in forms of social coexistence, in popular art, in customs. Being a Mexican writer means listening to the voice of that present -- that presence.''
        But his life and studies abroad and his restless intellect impelled him to range far afield in his writings. Besides incorporating the myths and history of Mexico, his poetry could embrace Western existentialism and romanticism, Eastern Zen and Hinduism -- and sometimes, several of these currents simultaneously. For example, he claimed that one of his poems was inspired by both the vertical scrolls of an Indian tantric painting and the verses of the French Symbolist poet Mallarme.
        An Sharp Mind And Broad Interests
        In his essays, Mr. Paz displayed such confidence in his erudition that there was seemingly no subject he hesitated to tackle -- archeology, music, art, philosophy, politics, religion. With humor and gusto, he could turn the most arcane incidents into a platform for the broadest discourse.  A report on New Guinea aborigines fleeing in horror from a recording of an Edith Piaf song sparked the Paz essay ''Edith Piaf Among the Pygmies,'' on the difficulty of journeying between cultures.
        Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria, a professor of Spanish at Yale University, has called Mr. Paz '' a vestige, an homme de lettres alive to all that is happening around him.'' In a 1988 review of ''The Collected Poems of Octavio Paz'' and ''Convergences''  in The New York Times Book Review, he wrote that the poet is ''willing to incorporate everything into his meditation, convinced that his perspective as a literate, nonspecialized observer is one worthy to be taken into account not only by intellectuals but by the public at large.''
        But Mr. Paz's opinions could grate on writers who felt he was treading too nonchalantly on their fields of expertise. In a 1993 review for The Times Book Review of Mr. Paz's ''Essays on Mexican Art,'' Hayden Herrera, the biographer of Frida Kahlo, upbraided him: ''While Mr. Paz admires the authenticity of Kahlo's self-portraits, he is, like many men of his generation, somewhat appalled by them. To him, her display of surgical and psychological wounds is 'self-gratification in bathos.' Her narcissism is tiresome: 'I feel that I am before a complaint,' he complains, 'not before a work of art.' ''  Ms. Herrera complained that Mr. Paz was trading on his eminence as a poet, ''on the reader's willingness to meet him halfway,'' in writing art criticism.
        At other times Mr. Paz could display a mastery of subjects that impressed even the specialists. His 1982 book on the 17th-century Mexican poet and nun Sor Juana Inez de la Cruz, titled ''Sor Juana, or the Traps of Faith,'' was hailed as a major literary biography and study of colonial culture.
        Mr. Paz's timing was exquisite. After long denying their legacy from Spain, Mexicans were just beginning to get interested again in the colonial era. And Sor Juana also proved to be a historical heroine that the Mexican feminist movement needed.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Paz relished his role as political gadfly to his left-leaning fellow Latin American intellectuals. ''My sin is that I criticize socialism . . . from a socialist point of view,'' he told Alan Riding of The New York Times in a 1983 interview. ''Intellectuals have a semireligious attitude, so it's difficult for them to criticize their own religion. Therefore, they hate me as they would a heretic. If they could, they'd send me to the stake.''
        Even as an unknown writer in his early 20's, Mr. Paz crossed political swords with Pablo Neruda, the Chilean poet who was lionized by younger authors and artists throughout Latin America. It was with Neruda's encouragement that he traveled to Europe in the late 1930's intending to side with the Republicans in the Spanish civil war. And when he moved to Paris when the Republican cause was lost, it was with Neruda's help that he met many leading European intellectuals, almost all of them Marxists.
        ''Neruda became more and more Stalinist, while I became less and less enchanted with Stalin,'' Mr. Paz once recalled. ''Finally, we fought -- almost physically -- and stopped speaking to each other. He wrote some not terribly nice things about me, including one nasty poem. I wrote some awful things about him.''
        A truce came only in the 1960's, with an exchange of books between the two men. Neruda died a few years later, in 1973. ''It was sad, but the possibility to be friends again with a man I liked and admired so very much was one of the best things that has ever happened to me,'' Mr. Paz said.
        His career included plenty of other quarrels with peers. The publication in 1950 of ''The Labyrinth of Solitude'' -- acclaimed as ''a central text of our time'' by the critic Irving Howe -- angered many of his compatriots. An exploration of national character, it portrayed Mexicans as a people wounded and confused by centuries of bitter divisions between Indian and Spanish cultures, radical atheism and religious fanaticism, revolutionary idealism and official corruption, machismo and mother worship.
        Because of these traumas, Mr. Paz asserted, Mexicans protected themselves by hiding behind masks and withdrawing into a labyrinth of solitude: ''The Mexican can bend, can bow humbly, can even stoop, but he cannot back down, that is, he cannot allow the outside world to penetrate his privacy.''
        The book initially affronted not only Mexican Government officials, who asserted that the 1910 revolution had set the country on a path of social justice and prosperity, but also many Mexicans who held a more  exuberant image of themselves.
        Forty years after publication of ''The Labyrinth of Solitude,'' Mr. Paz observed: ''I had broken with the predominant esthetic, moral and political ideas and was instantly attacked by many people who were all too sure of their dogmas and prejudices. Now I see those quarrels as a blessing: if a writer is accepted, he'll soon be rejected or forgotten. I didn't set out to be a troublesome writer, but if that's what I've been, I am totally unrepentant.''
        An Appealing Voice To Young Intellectuals
        Mr. Paz's criticisms of Mexican society were soon embraced by a new generation of intellectuals. Beginning in the 1950's, Carlos Fuentes unfurled an even more caustic vision of post-revolutionary Mexico in such novels as ''Where the Air Is Clear''  and ''The Death of Artemio Cruz.'' In 1968, the massacre of anti-Government demonstrators in Mexico City by army troops stripped away the image of benevolent democracy promoted by the authoritarian government -- one of the many ''Mexican masks'' that Mr. Paz described in ''The Labyrinth of Solitude.''
        Mr. Paz, who at the time was Mexico's Ambassador to India, resigned his post in protest and joined other Mexican intellectuals in denouncing the Government. A year later, he wrote ''Critique of the Pyramid,'' a slim book of essays asserting that Mexico's development had been paralyzed by institutions created by the revered revolution and that the only way to resolve the political crisis precipitated by the 1968 massacre was to embrace democracy.
        But for many dissidents whose icons were Fidel Castro and Che Guevara, such notions smacked of tepid, bourgeois reformism. ''My point of view put me in opposition simultaneously to the Government and the left,'' Mr. Paz said. ''The 'progressive' intellectuals, almost all of whom wanted to establish a totalitarian socialist regime, attacked me vehemently.''
        Mr. Paz's criticism of Cuba's brand of socialism placed him increasingly at odds with his colleagues. It led to a long feud with the more left-leaning Mr. Fuentes that was no doubt fanned by their rivalry as Mexico's leading writers and candidates for the Nobel Prize. Their opposing views often surfaced in the intellectual magazines they helped edit -- Vuelta, where Mr. Paz held sway, and Nexos, where Mr. Fuentes exerted strong influence.
        In a conciliatory gesture at a testimonial dinner for Mr. Paz's 70th birthday in 1984, Mr. Fuentes hailed him for having ''changed forever the face of Mexican literature,'' and asserted that despite their disagreements ''there is more that unites us than separates us.''
        But the bickering continued, and it could make both literary giants seem petty. When Mr. Fuentes organized an international conference of artists and intellectuals in Mexico City in 1992, he invited Mr. Paz only at the last minute, which led the poet-essayist to denounce the novelist's behavior as ''immoral'' and ''scandalous.''
        A Political Poet Who Irked Leftists
        In recent years, Mr. Paz was severely criticized for his friendship with the previous President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, and his support for Mr. Salinas's pro-business reforms. Mr. Paz also antagonized Mexico's left wing by strongly backing the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement, which was intended to liberalize trade and investment between Mexico, the United States and Canada. The next year Mexico plunged into economic crisis and Mr. Salinas went into self-imposed exile, tainted by political and financial scandals.
        While Mr. Paz seemed to have grown too conservative for many Mexican intellectuals, he could articulate their concerns in phrases memorable enough to make them wish he was on their side.
        On the chasm separating Americans and Mexicans, he had this to say in a 1979 article in The New Yorker: ''In general, Americans have not looked for Mexico in Mexico; they have looked for their obsessions, enthusiasms, phobias, hopes, interests -- and these are what they have found. In short, the history of our relationship is the history of a mutual and stubborn deceit.''
        In a 1992 New York Times article, the man who scorned socialist censorship also took capitalism to task:  ''The market, blind and deaf, is not fond of literature or of risk, and it does not know how to choose. Its censorship is not ideological: it has no ideas. It knows all about prices but nothing about values.''
        And in a 1994 interview in New Perspectives Quarterly, Mr. Paz asserted that Mexico was ''condemned to modernize'' its economy and society: ''I say condemned because seeing the United States, Europe and Japan, I think modernization is not a benediction. It is a kind of air-conditioned hell.''
        Mr. Paz has a daughter, Elena, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce. He lived his last two decades in an apartment in the heart of Mexico City, with his second wife,  Marie-Jose Tramini, whom he married in 1964. His wife and daughter  both survive him.
        His routine was to write during the late morning and into the afternoon, using a pen instead of a computer or typewriter. ''Writing is a curse,'' he said. ''The worst part of it is the anguish that precedes the act of writing -- the hours, days or months when we search in vain for the phrase that turns the spigot that makes the water flow. Once that first phrase is written, everything changes: the process is enthralling, vital and enriching, no matter what the final result is. Writing is a blessing!''
        Unfurling an Ectastic and Fluid Spirit
        Hear the throbbing of space  it is the steps of a season in heat  across the embers of the year
        Murmur of wings and rattles
        the far-off drumbeats of the storm
        the crackling and panting of the earth
        under its cape of roots and bugs
        ''The Arms of Summer'' (''The Collected Poems of Octavio Paz, 1957-1987,'' New Directions, 1987)
        Shadows of white day
        against my eyes. I see
        nothing but white:
        white hour, soul unchained
        from desire, from the hour.
        Whiteness of still waters,
        white hour, blindness of open eyes.
        Strike your flint, burn, memory,
        against the hour and its undertow.
        Memory, swimming flame.
        ''Aspiration,'' (''Collected Poems'')
        A couple embraces by an iron railing
        she laughs and asks something
        her question floats up and opens high above
        At this hour there's not a wrinkle in the sky
        three leaves fall from a tree
        someone whistles on the corner
        a window lights in the house across the way
        How strange to know yourself as alive!
        To walk among people
        with the open secret of being alive.
        ''Same Time'' (''Collected Poems'')
        Mixcoac was my village: three nocturnal syllables,
        a half-mask of shadow across a face of sun.
        Our Lady, Mother Dustcloud, came,
        came and ate it. I went out in the world.
        My words were my house, air my tomb.
        ''Epitaph for No Stone'' (''Collected Poems'')
      