
        Gardner Dickinson, a founder of the Senior PGA Tour, a standout in Ryder Cup events and a seven-time winner on the PGA Tour with a knack for teaching other golfers, died on Sunday at his home in Tequesta, Fla. He was 70.
        Dickinson died after a long illness, said his wife, Judy, a former player and former president of the Ladies Professional Golf Association. He suffered a stroke in 1994.
        As a member of the 1967 and 1971 United States teams, Dickinson had a 9-1 record in Ryder Cup play, the best winning percentage for anyone who participated in at least seven matches in the biennial team event. Dickinson and Arnold Palmer were the best tandem in United States Ryder Cup history, posting a 5-0 record together.  They led the United States to a 23 1/2-8 1/2 victory over Europe in 1967, the largest margin of victory in the Ryder Cup's history.
        In a statement Monday, Palmer saluted Dickinson's ''contributions to the game, both as a player and as a teacher.''
        Though he never won an event on the Senior PGA Tour, Dickinson helped lay the groundwork for it at a meeting on Jan. 16, 1980, with Sam Snead, Bob Goalby, Don January, Dan Sikes and Julius Boros. The Senior Tour, for players at least 50 years old, began later that year, and Dickinson was a member of its original policy board.
        Hale Irwin, who won more than $2 million on the Senior Tour last year and won his third consecutive P.G.A. Seniors Championship on Sunday, recalled Dickinson's ''steely-eyed approach to the game'' resembling the style of Ben Hogan.
        Dickinson was born in Dothan, Ala., and attended Louisiana State University and the University of Alabama before he turned pro in 1952. He was quickly nicknamed the Slim Man because of his 5-foot-10-inch, 130-pound frame.
        He won seven events on the PGA Tour before he retired after the 1971 season, including the 1956 Miami Beach Open, the 1968 Doral Open and the 1969 Colonial National Invitation. His last tour victory was at the 1971 Atlanta Classic, where he defeated Jack Nicklaus in a sudden-death playoff. Dickinson shifted his focus from playing to teaching golf during the 1970's. One of his first students, JoAnne Carner, became one of the greatest players on the L.P.G.A. Tour. Another one of his students, Judy Clark, became his wife in 1985.
        Besides his wife, Dickinson is survived by their 8-year-old twin sons, Barron and Spencer, and three children from a previous marriage, Gardner 4th, Randall and Sherry.
      