
        Fred Davis, a genial cue shark who smiled his way to eight world professional snooker championships and helped lay the groundwork for the game's raging popularity in Britain, died last Thursday at his hillside farm in Denbigh, North Wales. He was 84 and regarded as the last living link with snooker's illustrious professional past.
        Americans may be forgiven if they snicker at snooker. The game, after all, a whimsical variation of pool dreamed up in 1875 by English Army officers stationed in India, takes its name from a term of derision for a gullible, green cadet, the very sort to be snookered by crafty play.
        Played on an oversized table with frustratingly narrow pockets, the game, an amalgam of three older pool games, employs 22 balls -- a white cue ball, 15 red balls worth a point each and 6 of various colors numbered 2 (yellow) through 7 (black).
        In Britain, snooker is not only not a laughing matter, it is also a major television sport, second only to soccer. It regularly draws 10 million viewers to major matches, the core of the fans attracted by Mr. Davis and other great players in the years before it became a television juggernaut.
        Mr. Davis missed out on the big paydays of the television era, in which top players have earned more than $2 million a year. But Mr. Davis did quite well for himself, winning rock star type fame during his heyday, the 1940's and 1950's.
        In a distinctly cerebral game that has been called chess with balls and that demands careful planning and exquisite nerve as well as an unerring eye and a sure, delicate touch, Mr. Davis was a master.
        But for all his victories and his fame, Mr. Davis, a native of Whittington Moor, near Chesterfield, never quite got out from under the shadow of his renowned older brother, Joe, who won the first professional championship in 1927 and held the title until he retired undefeated after the 1946 championship.
        Curiously, Mr. Davis, who picked up the game after his parents gave him a miniature table one Christmas, was never coached by his brother, who was 12 years older and actually told his little brother that he was not good enough to pursue a professional career.
        Mr. Davis ignored his brother's advice. After winning the English boys' snooker title, he blithely turned pro at 16, won the junior professional billiards championship at 18 and again the next year.
        By then he was concentrating on snooker. He won his share of matches but grew increasingly frustrated by declining eyesight. Stubbornly refusing to get glasses until he lost to an inferior player at a world championship, he then swallowed his pride, obtained spectacles and became virtually invincible.
        Although, in his first trip to the world championship final, in 1940, he lost to his brother, the match was so close it established Mr. Davis as his brother's near equal.
        Over the next few years Mr. Davis defeated his brother in some matches, a feat accomplished by no other player in competition.
        After his brother's retirement, Mr. Davis tried and failed to win the 1947 championship, but was back the next year to win the first of his eight titles.
        Unlike his brother, Mr. Davis did not retire as champion, but continued to play on a surprisingly high level long after he had been eclipsed by younger players, making it to the world championship semifinals three times in the 1970's, including the famous 1978 tournament, the first to be televised by the BBC.
        He may have been past his snooker prime at 65, but Mr. Davis had not lost his touch with a cue.
        Two years later, at age 67, he won the world billiards championship, making him the only player besides his brother to win the titles in both sports.
        As snooker became a big sport in Britain, actually outdrawing soccer during the 1980's, when the BBC began devoting 100 hours of broadcast time to the two-week annual world championships, Mr. Davis was widely recognized as the grand old man of the game.
        Although arthritis slowed him considerably, he played competitively until 1992.
        Mr. Davis, a widower whose brother died in 1978, is survived by two daughters, Lynn and Allison.
      