
        Peter Lind Hayes, an affable, appealing entertainer whose career included work in everything from vaudeville to films, Broadway, nightclubs, radio and television, died on Tuesday in Las Vegas. He was 82.
        Mr. Hayes had been in failing health and died at the Nathan Adelson Hospice from vascular problems, family members said.
        Known mostly for teaming in various ventures with his wife, the actress Mary Healy, Mr. Hayes had a wide range of talents, including comic impressions, singing, songwriting and storytelling. He starred in several television series, including ''The Peter Lind Hayes Show,'' on ABC in 1958, and ''Peter Loves Mary,'' on NBC in 1960.
        For several years in the early 1960's the couple were hosts of a daily program on WOR radio in New York from the basement of their home in New Rochelle, N.Y. Mr. Hayes also starred with his wife in the 1958 Broadway comedy ''Who Was That Lady I Saw You With?''
        ''More than anything else he loved to perform for a live audience,'' Ms. Healy said yesterday.
        Born in San Francisco as Joseph Conrad Lind, Mr. Hayes made his vaudeville debut at age 6, paired with his mother, Grace Hayes. At 16, he made it to New York's famed Palace Theater, appearing with his mother in a skit he wrote.
        When his mother opened the Grace Hayes Lodge in Los Angeles in 1939, Mr. Hayes took his talent for singing, dancing and comedy into the nightclub arena.
        That led to work in Hollywood, including such films as ''Million Dollar Legs'' with Betty Grable, ''These Glamour Girls'' with Lana Turner,  and ''Seven Days Leave'' with Lucille Ball.
        The nightclub work also led to a meeting with a young actress named Mary Healy, whom Mr. Hayes married in 1940.
        He joined the Army Air Corps during World War II, and appeared in shows throughout the Pacific Theater. He was awarded a bronze star and two battle stars for his service.
        Mr. Hayes returned to film work and appeared in ''The Senator Was Indiscreet'' with William Powell in 1947. But it was in television and radio that Mr. Hayes gained his widest popularity. For several years in the early 1950's, he and his wife became the regular substitute hosts for Arthur Godfrey on his television programs.
        At the same time Mr. Hayes continued his work in nightclubs, appearing in places ranging from the Copacabana in New York to the Frontier and Sands Hotels in Las Vegas.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Peter Michael Hayes; a daughter, Cathy Lind Hayes, and a grandchild.
        In his later years, Mr. Hayes always referred to himself as ''an out-of-work actor,'' his daughter said, never considering himself retired. Asked when he had last performed, Ms. Healy said, ''Two or three days ago, when he sang to me, 'Does Your Mother Know You're Out?' ''
      