
        Jean-Francois Lyotard, an eclectic post-modern French philosopher and prolific author who most recently taught at Emory University in Atlanta, died on Tuesday at Necker Hospital in Paris. He was 73 and divided his time between Paris and Atlanta.
        The cause was leukemia, the university reported.
        Mr. Lyotard was one of several French critics and philosophers, among them Jacques Derrida, Jean Baudrillard and Julia Kristeva, whose thinking has strongly influenced art and literary criticism of the last two decades.
        At his death, he was the Robert W. Woodruff Professor of French and Philosophy in Emory's department of French and Italian. He went to Emory as a visiting professor in 1991 while also teaching at the University of California at Irvine, and made Atlanta his sole academic home in 1995.
        He had become a professor emeritus in 1984 at the University of Paris VIII-Vincennes, which he helped found after teaching at the Sorbonne at Nanterre.
        He wrote more than 40 books, many of which remain in print in English translation. He also published some 90 articles, reviews and interviews.
        Among his most important work was ''La Condition Post-Moderne'' (1979), which the University of Minnesota Press reissued in 1984 as ''The Post-Modern Condition: A Report on Knowledge.'' The same press published his ''Post-Modern Explained'' in 1992, and ''Post-Modern Fables'' last year.
        A collection of essays rendered in English as ''The Lyotard Reader'' appeared in 1990 (Blackwell). In these his thoughts ranged over Hegel and Freud, modern painting, cinema, feminism and the concept of the outsider, among other subjects.
        ''Reading his essays is like leaping into a mental maelstrom,'' wrote Wendy Steiner in The New York Times Book Review. ''And yet, with enough of these immersions, the vortex reveals wonderful currents of connection.''
        Other notable titles by Mr. Lyotard  included ''Discours, Figure'' (1971), ''Economie Libidinale'' (1974), ''The Differend'' (1984), ''Heidegger and the Jews'' (1988), ''Inhuman'' (1988), ''Lessons on the Analytic of the Sublime'' (1991) and ''Chambre Sourde,'' published this year. Awaiting publication is his final book about the ''Confessions'' of St. Augustine.
        He was born in Versailles and briefly considered becoming a Dominican monk before studying philosophy at the Sorbonne. He started his teaching career in 1952 in Constantine, Algeria, and after passing France's competitive qualifying examinations, joined the Sorbonne faculty.
        He was a founder, in 1981, and a president of the College International de Philosophie.
        Professor Lyotard is survived by his wife, Dolores Dziczeck-Lyotard; a son, David; two daughters from a previous marriage, Corinne Enaudeau and Laurence Kahn; a sister, Josette de La Thebaudiere, and three grandchildren.
      