
        Michael W. McCarthy, a former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company who helped expand that brokerage firm into a global enterprise, died on Wednesday at his home in Indian Wells, Calif.
        Mr. McCarthy, 94, also served for a time as a governor of both the New York and American Stock Exchanges.
        He worked his way up from a bookkeeper in an Oakland, Calif., grocery business to become Merrill Lynch's president in 1959 and then chairman of the company two years later, presiding over what was the biggest American brokerage firm in a period of rapid domestic and foreign expansion. Merrill, for example, set up an office in Tokyo in 1961, the first American securities firm to do so. Between 1959 and 1964, the firm also opened 21 new offices in the United States, creating a network of 159 offices across the country.
        In addition, Mr. McCarthy played an important part in the move to open Wall Street firms to public ownership. Merrill itself converted from a partnership to become a public company in 1959. ''We sincerely believe public ownership would increase and stabilize the capital positions of member firms,'' Mr. McCarthy said at the time. Since then, most big Wall Street firms, apart from Goldman, Sachs & Company, have converted from private partnerships to public ownership.
        As a governor of the New York Stock Exchange from 1960 to 1963, Mr. McCarthy pressed the Big Board to give the nation's stockholders a greater voice in the exchange's affairs. In August 1963, he urged it to ''get away from the onus of a private club.''
        David H. Komansky, Merrill's current chairman and chief executive, said in a statement on Thursday that Mr. McCarthy ''was a visionary leader, overseeing expansion in the U.S. and abroad.'' He added, ''In 1961, long before it was fashionable, he planted the Merrill Lynch flag in Japan, a move that continues to bear fruit 37 years later.''
        Mr. McCarthy was born in Belle Plaine, Minn., the youngest of six children. After graduating from high school in Beach, N.D., in 1924, he went to California, where he found a $100-a-month job at the Mutual Stores Grocery chain in Oakland. Four years later, Safeway Stores acquired Mutual in a transaction financed by Merrill Lynch. Charles E. Merrill, the brokerage firm's founder, got to know Mr. McCarthy as a result of that transaction and was impressed by his bookkeeping skills.
        In 1940, Mr. Merrill invited Mr. McCarthy to join Merrill Lynch to help organize its back office, the term brokerage firms apply to the administration and systems needed to support stock and bond trading.  Mr. McCarthy did this successfully, becoming a partner in the firm in 1944 and managing partner in 1957. A key architect of Merrill Lynch's conversion to public ownership two years later, Mr. McCarthy became the company's president in 1959 and succeeded Winthrop T. Smith as  chairman in April 1961. He retired as chairman in 1966, and as chairman of the firm's executive committee in 1968, settling in Indian Wells. After retirement, he was active in civic affairs, becoming a founding trustee of the Eisenhower Medical Center.
        Mr. McCarthy was a governor of the American Stock Exchange from 1950 to 1956 and a governor of the Association of Stock Exchange firms from 1955 to 1961.
        He is survived by a son, Patrick M. McCarthy of Indian Wells; two grandsons; a granddaughter, and a great-grandson. Mr. McCarthy's wife, Margaret Grundy McCarthy, died in 1997.
        Correction:  April 17, 1998, Friday  An obituary on April 4 about Michael W. McCarthy, a former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company, misstated the year Merrill Lynch became publicly held. It was 1971. (The firm was incorporated in 1959.)
      