
        John George Williams, a self-taught naturalist who gained international renown as a safari guide to the bird life and other fauna of eastern and central Africa, died on Sunday at Leicester General Hospital in Leicester, England. He was 84 and lived in Rutland, Leicestershire.
        Mr. Williams was legendary as one of the sharpest field observers around, and his illustrated guidebooks remain a staple for serious tourists at the lodges in African game parks. He also wrote two guides to orchids.
        He was born in Cardiff, Wales, where the study of nature became a boyhood fascination. He joined the staff of the National Museum of Wales, continuing his on-the-job training as an ornithologist and taxidermist.
        With the outbreak of war he enlisted in the Royal Air Force, initially assigned to malaria control.
        He eventually landed in military counter-intelligence with the rank of flight lieutenant and saw service in the Balkans, Palestine, other parts of the Middle East, Turkey and North Africa. His job was to spot potential aircraft landing strips behind enemy lines, and he was good enough at it to be ''mentioned in dispatches,'' as military parlance had it.
        Around the end of the war he met Dr. Philippa Gaffikin, an R.A.F. doctor with keen interests in anthropology and archeology, fields that neatly complemented his own. They married in Cairo in 1945 and, together, formed a team when they decided to make their home in Kenya.
        He was appointed Curator of Birds at the Coryndon Museum in Nairobi in 1946, a post he held for about 20 years. After that he became founding director of the East African Wildlife Advisory Service.
        From his base in Kenya and later in England, where he returned in 1977, he traveled the world and served as an adviser to museums, including the American Museum of Natural History in New York, the British Museum and the Royal Ontario Museum.
        He was the author of ''A Field Guide to the National Parks of East Africa'' (1968), which inventories mammals as well as birds, from the Abyssinian Roller to the Zanzibar Puff-backed Shrike. It remains a classic for visitors to the parks, as does ''The Birds of East and Central Africa'' (1963).
        He also wrote ''A Field Guide to the Butterflies of Africa'' (1972); and with his son, Andrew A. E. Williams, ''A Field Guide to Orchids in North America'' (1983).
        Mr. Williams's wife died in 1993. His son is a conservationist in western Australia and living in Wanneroo; also surviving are three daughters, Helen Davis, Alice Start and Sarah Larsen, all of Australia; a brother, Bert, of England; and 11 grandchildren.
      