
        Alexander Papamarkou, a philanthropist and international investment banker whose clients included royalty, industrialists and major institutions, died Thursday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Papamarkou founded the Papamarkou & Company investment firm in New York. He began his career on Wall Street in 1961 as a broker at Oppenheimer & Company and had also been a vice president of E. F. Hutton before establishing his own firm.
        Last month, he established a research chair in honor of his father, the Plutarchos Papamarkou Chair of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases at Rockefeller University. Last year, he financed the Harissios Papamarkou Chair in Education at the Library of Congress in honor of his grandfather, a prominent Greek educator. He also financed both the Central Park Conservancy and an endowment at the New York Philharmonic in memory of his mother.
        Born in Athens in 1930, Mr. Papamarkou was the son of a physician who was a research scientist and minister of public health. Mr. Papamarkou traveled extensively and was fluent in Greek, German, English and French. His professional and charitable activities reflected his interest in international affairs.
        Early in his career, Mr. Papamarkou served in the Greek Government for two years as director of the Ministry of Industry, until 1957.
        More recently he was involved with the United Nations and the Onassis Foundation, for which he served on the international prizes jury.
        Mr. Papamarkou graduated with honors from Athens College in 1948 and came to the United States that year to attend the Maxwell School of Public Affairs at Syracuse University, where he graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor's degree in public affairs. He received a master's degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. He also studied at the London School of Economics.
        Mr. Papamarkou promoted the study of Hellenism through gifts to universities and seminaries. He held the rank of Archon Megas Hieromnion of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, the Greek Orthodox Church's highest distinction for a layman, and had served as a member of the Archdiocesan Council Executive Committee. In addition to the Library of Congress and Rockefeller University, he contributed his time and money to the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, New York University, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Lincoln Center and the Cultural Commission of the City of New York.
        As a result of his work, he was honored by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and the Orthodox Patriarchates of Jerusalem and Russia. He was made a Knight Commander, Order of Isabel La Catolica, Spain. Mr. Papamarkou was also a former trustee and treasurer of the Prince of Wales's charities in the United States.
        He is survived by his sister, Lisa Papamarkou Jewell of New York.
      