
        With more than a year to go before the end of the millennium, it's too early to tell who will top the inevitable honor rolls of 20th-century achievement, but when it comes time to choose the outstanding performance by a school guidance counselor, a leading contender must surely be the long-forgotten adviser at Highland Park High School in suburban Detroit who sized up a vaguely artistic, distinctly disaffected and decidedly different ninth-grade misfit and said, ''Son, maybe you should be a hairdresser.''
        That, at least, is how George Masters once explained his transformation from high school dropout to master stylist, so it must be considered a tribute to his counselor's penetrating perceptive powers that when Mr. Masters died on March 6 at his home in Los Angeles, he had worked for almost half a century at the very pinnacle of his accidental profession.
        Mr. Masters, who was 62, had been severely hobbled by a fall a year ago, but his family, who disclosed his death last week, said no cause had been determined.
        Once the enfant terrible of Beverly Hills hairdressers, Mr. Masters worked wonders with the disparate likes of Marilyn Monroe, Ann-Margret and Lynda Bird Johnson before emerging as a peripatetic makeup magician who traveled from salon to salon bringing his uncanny sense of color and composition to the masses, or at least those of the masses able to afford his $350 consultation fee.
        For all the acclaim he won teasing unsuspected beauty out of time-ravaged faces, Mr. Masters was better known as the makeup artist who transformed Dustin Hoffman into Tootsie for the 1982 movie. By then he had long been a Hollywood legend.
        Emboldened by his counselor, Mr. Masters, a Detroit native, enrolled in a local beauty school and worked briefly in a Detroit shop. As a teen-ager who seemed to have a sixth sense about which cut or coif would be most becoming for what face and figure, Mr. Masters created such a sensation that he was quickly lured to an exclusive salon in Grosse Pointe, suburban Cadillac country where he drew so many raves from various Ford and Dodge women that he was soon off to Elizabeth Arden's in New York. Within a few years he had accepted a job with the Saks Fifth Avenue salon in Beverly Hills.
        Acutely aware of the power of his talent, Mr. Masters arrived at his new job two weeks behind schedule, further shocking his new bosses and colleagues by showing up for work in jeans and a sweatshirt, a uniform that was soon widely copied by other high-end hairdressers.
        For all his contributions, Mr. Masters, who published an autobiographical guide, ''The Masters Way to Beauty,'' in 1978, seemed proudest of two claimed innovations: using toilet paper to wrap hair curlers and introducing informality to his once staid profession.
        Almost immediately, the handsome young hairdresser who resembled James Dean and had the insolence to match was the darling of the celluloid set, all the more so because he declined to play the hand-wringing courtier and did not hide his scorn at anything he considered phony. This was a category that included pretentious clients and virtually every other hairdresser in the land.
        Among other things, he refused to greet new clients until they were stripped and smocked. Seeing them in their regular clothes, he said, could influence his assessment of their possibilities for improvement. Besides, one look at the shoes, he said, told him all he needed to know about a woman. If shoes or handbags were plastic, Mr. Masters would simply shudder and walk away.
        With such celebrity boosters as Hedda Hopper and Jennifer Jones behind him, Mr. Masters was soon in such demand that after finishing up at Saks he would spend the evening doing hair at the homes of wealthy clients, who showered the 23-year-old prodigy with expensive gifts.
        Along the way, Mr. Masters, who did his share of movie work -- generally without screen credit because he would not join the union -- befriended special clients, including Ann-Margret and Marilyn Monroe, for whom he created her signature soft, curly bob and changed her hair color from yellow blond to what she called ''pillowcase white.''
        Already a Hollywood celebrity, Mr. Masters gained international fame in 1966 when he did a well-publicized emergency makeover of Lynda Bird Johnson before her Academy Awards date with George Hamilton.
        The proprietor of his own shop before he was 30, he had grandiose plans for expansion, but he was always more artist than businessman. When the shop failed after a year, Mr. Masters, who had discovered his amazing talent for makeup and already begun to move away from hairdressing, began traveling the country as a guest makeup artist at upscale salons.
        His arrival in a city invariably produced a flood of admiring publicity (not to mention free makeovers for local reporters) but the real admiration would come later, when a previously homely 60-ish client would walk away looking radiant, another feather in a guidance counselor's cap.
        Mr. Masters is survived by two sisters, Irene Popp of Glendale, Calif., and Evelyn Guin of Bishop, Calif., and a nephew, Jeff Platts of Los Angeles.
      