
        Klaus Tennstedt, a German conductor who was renowned as a Mahler interpreter, died on Sunday at his home in Kiel, Germany. He was 71.
        Judie Janowski, Mr. Tennstedt's manager before his retirement from  the concert stage in 1994, said the cause was throat cancer.
        Because he spent the beginning of his career in East Germany, Mr. Tennstedt was virtually unknown in the West until he was in his late 40's. But his international career took off after he left East Germany in 1971. From the time he made his first appearances in North America, with the Toronto and Boston Symphony orchestras in 1974, he was regarded as an uncommonly probing, expressive conductor of works from the mainstream Romantic repertory.
        Reviewing Mr. Tennstedt's New York Philharmonic debut in February 1977, Harold C. Schonberg observed in The New York Times that the conductor seemed equal to the reputation that had preceded him.
        ''His approach was Romantic, with a good deal of warmth, tension and an exploitation of the full dynamic register of the symphony orchestra,'' Mr. Schonberg wrote. ''But this was not mere virtuoso conducting. There was logic behind everything he did. There also was crackling rhythm.'' He added, ''At the end of the first movement of the Prokofiev, there was an involuntary whoop from one excited customer upstairs.''
        Mr. Tennstedt's style also drew comment at that time. Mr. Schonberg described him as ''a croucher and dancer, a stabber and jabber.'' Others depicted his conducting as athletic and angular. By the time Mr. Tennstedt reached his 60's, his podium manner had grown more spare and restrained, yet he continued to elicit performances that offered both visceral power and vivid emotion.
        Although he conducted the premieres of works by Gottfried von Einem and Hans Werner Henze in the 1970's, his repertory was usually fairly constricted, and in his appearances with American orchestras after the mid-1980's, he rarely ventured beyond works by Mozart, Beethoven, Mahler and Bruckner. But he accepted the notion that his conservative repertory made him essentially a curator.
        ''Is the time of composing completely over?'' he asked in a 1981 interview. ''Often I worry that that is the case. There will always be people who will want to express what burns inside them. But there is a helplessness to be felt everywhere today.'' He continued, ''At least for traditional instruments, I believe that everything has already been composed.''
        Mr. Tennstedt was born in Merseburg, Germany, on June 6, 1926. When he was 15, he enrolled at the Leipzig Conservatory, where he studied violin, piano and music theory. He also studied in Dresden during World War II, and he told one interviewer that after the firebombing of Dresden in 1944, he was in the fire brigade and assigned to dig bodies out of the rubble.
        In 1948 he was appointed concertmaster of the Halle Municipal Theater Orchestra, where his father was a violinist. Four years later he began conducting the orchestra, and he soon became its music director. In 1958, he became music director of the Dresden Opera and in 1962 he took over the Schwerin State Orchestra and the Schwerin State Theater.
        During the 1960's, Mr. Tennstedt had an active touring schedule in East Germany, and was a frequent guest of the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra, the Dresden Philharmonic, the Dresden Staatskapelle and the Berlin Radio Orchestra. He also performed in the Soviet Union and in Czechoslovakia.
        When preparing for a tour in 1971, Mr. Tennstedt found that his passport had been mistakenly stamped  with an exit visa for the West. He left East Germany for Sweden, announced his intention not to return, and persuaded the East German Government to allow his wife to join him. In Sweden, he became the director of the Stora Theater in Goteborg and the conductor of the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra in Stockholm. In 1972, he became director of the Kiel Opera in West Germany.
        Mr. Tennstedt's first break in North America occurred after the death of Karel Ancerl, the director of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra. When the orchestra's managing director, Walter Homburger, went to Europe in search of a replacement, he read some reviews of Mr. Tennstedt's work in Kiel. After hearing him conduct Bruckner's Seventh Symphony, he hired him for a series of Toronto concerts in May 1974. He made his Boston Symphony debut later that year.
        Mr. Tennstedt became principal guest conductor of the London Philharmonic in 1977, served as principal guest conductor of the Minnesota Orchestra from 1979 to 1982, and returned to the London Philharmonic as its music director from 1983 to 1987. After he relinquished the post, he became the orchestra's conductor laureate.
        In the 1980's and 90's, he regularly appeared in New York with both the New York Philharmonic and the Philadelphia Orchestra. During the last several years, poor health took an increasing toll on his work. Besides fighting cancer, Mr. Tennstedt had two hip replacements.
        He is survived by his wife, Inge, and a stepson.
        His discography includes recordings of Beethoven, Brahms, Strauss, Wagner, Prokofiev and Kodaly, but the centerpiece of his recorded legacy is the Mahler cycle he recorded with the London Philharmonic for Angel Records.
        His affinity for Mahler, however, was something Mr. Tennstedt did not develop until his career was well established, partly because Mahler's music was banned by the Nazis during his student years.
        ''I came late to Mahler,'' he told Roy Hemming in an interview for Keynote magazine in 1985. ''And I think maybe that is better. Except for Mahler's First Symphony, I think you need experience in life before you can be a good interpreter of Mahler. All the things he composed in his works -- love, hate, fear, joy, cynicism, all this -- you cannot fully understand when you are young.''
      