
        Defense Minister Gojko Susak of Croatia, who went from running a pizzeria in Ottawa to playing a vital role in the Croatian war of independence from Yugoslavia in the 1990's, died on Sunday night in Dubrava Hospital in Zagreb. He was 53.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, said Andrija Hebrang, Croatia's Health Minister. A heavy smoker, he was treated for cancer in Washington and later in Boston during the last three years. His last public appearance was in February.
        In a telegram of condolence, President Franjo Tudjman called him his ''closest colleague and a personal friend.''
        Though lacking military training, Mr. Susak bragged that he had fired the first shot against the Serbs two months before the outbreak of general fighting in June 1991 that led to the breakup of Yugoslavia.
        He said he had persuaded a regional policeman to escort him to the edge of Borovo Selo, a village populated mainly by Serbs near the Danube, which forms the border between Croatia and Serbia. From a cornfield, Mr. Susak and his companions fired three bazooka rounds into the village. There were no casualties, although a house was destroyed.
        The armed forces over which he initially presided were poorly armed and largely untrained. They were compelled to relinquish control of nearly a third of the territory of Croatia, one of six constituent republics of Communist Yugoslavia, to ethnic Serbian forces backed by elements of the Yugoslav Army.
        The Serbs felt threatened by the new, highly nationalistic leadership in Zagreb.
        During the next four years, Mr. Susak directed the building of a professional army of 100,000 aided by large quantities of weapons smuggled in defiance of a United Nations embargo and with the help of training specialists from foreign countries including the United States.
        In early 1994 a military relationship between Croatia and the United States began to blossom in the context of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, another republic that seceded from Yugoslavia. A federation of Bosnian Muslim and Bosnian Croat political institutions was created under the aegis of the Clinton Administration.
        Mr. Susak became close friends with Defense Secretary William J. Perry. When Mr. Susak was found to have lung cancer, Mr. Perry arranged for him to have surgery and treatment at the United States Army's Walter Reed Hospital in March 1996 and later flown to Zagreb aboard an American military jet.
        A military cooperation agreement between Washington and Zagreb resulted in the sending to Croatia of a large team of military advisers led by retired Army generals. The trained Croatian forces began offensives in May and August of 1995 and drove out virtually all of the remaining ethnic Serbs -- some 200,000 -- from the country. Croatia became almost ethnically homogeneous.
        The lightning attacks were widely attributed to the use of American battle tactics, although Mr. Susak never commented in public on that or other military matters.
        Gojko Susak (he pronounced his name GOY-koh SHOO-shahk) was born on March 16, 1945, in the Herzegovina town of Siroki Brijeg, a stronghold of the fascist Ustashe movement that ruled much of Croatia and Bosnia as a satellite of Hitler's Germany during World War II.
        The Communist Partisans led by Tito are said to have killed his father, an Ustashe officer, three months later and burned the Susak house to the ground. An elder brother was also an Ustashe officer.
        He briefly studied at the university in Rijeka but was discouraged from continuing by the Communist authorities. He avoided mandatory military service in 1968, escaping that year and immigrating to Canada a year later, joining two brothers who had preceded him to Ottawa.
        Starting out washing dishes and then ''running a dive,'' as he described it, later serving as manager of a small company, he scraped enough together to buy and supervise a pizzeria, called Tops.
        ''I never made pizzas,'' he told an interviewer years later. ''I was the boss.'' He also ran his own interior design firm. Canadian neighbors remembered him as Garry Susak.
        But the tall, lean and beetle-browed Mr. Susak remained deeply engaged in the life of his homeland from the beginning of his emigre days. ''I worked part time making a living and full time on the Croatian cause,'' he once recalled. He was elected head of the Croatian-Canadian Cultural Federation and helped raise money to endow a chair of Croatian language studies at Waterloo University in London, Ontario.
        When Franjo Tudjman, the former Yugoslav general and later Croatian dissident, visited Canada in 1987, Mr. Susak was his host. The cracks in the Yugoslav federation were becoming evident. The two men struck up a close friendship, and two years later Mr. Susak began raising money for what became Mr. Tudjman's political party, the Croatian Democratic Union.
        He was enormously successful, not only with the 100,000 people of Croatian origin in Canada, but also among the million or more in the United States. He collected several million dollars and provided Mr. Tudjman with an election war chest that far surpassed money available to most other opponents.
        Mr. Susak returned to Yugoslavia in early 1990 at the head of 80 emigre volunteers to help manage Mr. Tudjman's triumphant presidential campaign. He was rewarded with appointment to the Cabinet, first as Minister for Emigration and Deputy Defense Minister. In September 1991 he was named Defense Minister.
        Survivors include his wife, Djurdja; two daughters, Katarina and Jelena; a son, Tomislav, and two brothers, Branko of Ottawa and Mile of Zagreb.
        Correction:  May 7, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Defense Minister Gojko Susak of Croatia incorrectly located the University of Waterloo, for which he helped raise money during a period in which he lived in Canada. It is in Waterloo, Ontario, not London, Ontario.
      