
        Patrick Hayes, one of the last of the American impresarios and virtually the only presenter of musicians, singers and dancers in Washington before the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts opened in 1971, died on Sunday at George Washington University Medical Center. He was 89.
        From 1947 to 1966, Mr. Hayes ran the Hayes Concert Bureau, converting it in 1966 to a nonprofit organization, the Washington Performing Arts Society, which he ran until his retirement in 1982.
        As the entrepreneur at his concert bureau, Mr. Hayes brought performers to Washington ''at his own risk,'' his successor as president of the  society, Douglas Wheeler, said today, adding, ''Impresarios are there for their own profit or loss.''
        There were times, Mr. Wheeler said, when Mr. Hayes lost money.  When he brought the New York Philharmonic to perform at Constitution Hall in the early 1960's, for example, the only date the orchestra had open was Washington's Birthday, a Monday, and the only time available was 3 P.M.
        ''Pat said, 'We need to bring Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic to Washington,' and he did it,'' Mr. Wheeler recounted. There were some empty seats in Constitution Hall that afternoon and an emptiness in Mr. Hayes's pocket.
        Other events were more profitable, although they tested Mr. Hayes's imagination. He booked Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn for an appearance with the Royal Ballet and then had to find a place for them to dance. The solution was to put a floor over the ice at a skating rink near Union Station.
        In his 40-year career, Mr. Hayes brought to Washington such performers as Marian Anderson, Arturo Toscanini, Van Cliburn, Vladimir Horowitz, Rudolf Serkin, Jascha Heifetz, Leontyne Price, Arthur Rubinstein and Mstislav Rostropovich. He also booked pop artists, including Louis Armstrong and Judy Garland, and such companies as the Metropolitan Opera, the Dance Theater of Harlem, the Martha Graham Dance Company, the Bolshoi Ballet and the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater.
        Some of those artists were black, and until the 1950's, those who performed did so in a Washington where the order of the day was segregation -- something Mr. Hayes worked to end. ''He brought the business people together to desegregate the lunch counters and theaters downtown,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
        When Mr. Hayes formed the Washington Performing Arts Society, he named an old friend, the baritone Todd Duncan, as chairman of the board. The selection of Mr. Duncan, who created the role of Porgy in George Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' sent signals to the arts community that African-Americans had to be involved in their productions, Mr. Wheeler said.
        Mr. Hayes began his career by  watching from the wings as a child while his father, a vaudevillian and actor, performed onstage.
        He graduated from Harvard University in 1929, just in time for the  Depression, and held a variety of jobs, including master of ceremonies in a nightclub, until 1940, when he was hired to manage the National Symphony Orchestra. He served in the Navy during World War II, returned to the symphony and then opened his concert bureau.
        His first marriage, to Gaynell Kearney, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Evelyn Swarthout; two sons, Edward Kearney of Washington and Bryant of New York City; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Chicago, three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      