
        Gene Raymond, whose dashing blond looks led to a long career in theater, film and television, died on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 89.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Esme Chandlee.
        He started on Broadway in 1920 at the age of 12 under his real name, Raymond Guion, but Hollywood rechristened him Gene Raymond, the stage name he would use for the rest of his career. He played second leads in many hit movies and starred in less remarkable ones, for a total of more than 40 films.
        He also was a decorated bomber pilot of World War II and the male lead in one of Hollywood's most enduring marriages: a 28-year union with the singer and actress Jeannette MacDonald, whom he married in 1937. She died in 1965.
        Raymond Guion was born in New York City, was educated at the Professional Children's School and made his acting debut at age 5. By the time he turned 21 he had held featured roles in five Broadway shows, including ''Cradle Snatchers'' and ''War Song.''
        Hollywood beckoned in 1931. His notable film credits included ''Zoo in Budapest'' (1933) with Loretta Young; ''Flying Down to Rio'' (1933), the movie that introduced Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire as co-stars; and ''Smilin' Through'', a 1941 release and his only star turn with Ms. MacDonald.
        At the outbreak of war, Mr. Raymond joined the Army Air Forces as a pilot in the B-17 bomber group that inaugurated precision bombing. As a colonel in the Air Force Reserve in 1967 he again flew jets into South Vietnam on high- priority missions and won the Legion of Merit.
        In the 1950's and 60's he appeared as host, panelist and actor in television productions on ''Fireside Theater'' and ''U.S. Steel Hour,'' and series like ''Judd for the Defense,'' ''Ironside'' and ''The Girl from U.N. C.L.E.'' He also returned to feature films and performed in summer stock and on national tours in ''The Voice of the Turtle,'' ''Private Lives,'' ''Mister Roberts'' and ''Kiss Me Kate.''
        Mr. Raymond was a past board member of the Screen Actors Guild and the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Over the years he served as president of the Motion Picture and Television Fund and the Los Angeles chapter of the Air Force Association and as vice president of the Arthritis Foundation.
        He was married a second time, in 1974, to Nel Bentley Hees, who died three years ago.
      