
        Louis Peterson, the author of ''Take a Giant Step,'' a groundbreaking Broadway play of the early 1950's about a young black man growing up in a middle-class white neighborhood in New England, died on Monday at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 76.
        Mr. Peterson had lung cancer, said George R. Cavey, a friend.
        When ''Take a Giant Step'' had its premiere at the Lyceum Theater in 1953, it received favorable reviews, established Mr. Peterson's reputation and was named one of the outstanding plays of the season in the ''Best Plays'' yearbook. Although the production closed after 76 performances, a revival in 1956 had a long run Off Broadway.
        In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson called ''Take a Giant Step'' ''an original and poignant drama,'' and in a follow-up essay he said that it was ''a landmark in the theater'' because it was neither a protest play nor a work about racial solidarity but dealt with a subject common to all Americans. The central character was confronted with problems of adolescence as well as racial identity.
        Harold Clurman in The Nation attributed the value of the play to ''the particular color, immediacy and urgency of its feeling -- a kind of emotional frankness, a wry naivete and a rough goodness of heart that smack of something truly native, original in tone and unmistakably lived.''
        The play helped open doors for other black playwrights, including Lorraine Hansberry, whose ''Raisin in the Sun'' played on Broadway in 1959. It was also a springboard for  actors like Louis Gossett, who made his Broadway debut in the central role. Also in the original cast were Frederick O'Neal, Jane White, Estelle Evans and Estelle Hemsley. Bill Gunn played the lead in the revival, and the other actors included Beah Richards, Frances Foster, Rosetta LeNoire and Godfrey Cambridge.
        ''Take a Giant Step'' was drawn from Mr. Peterson's life in Hartford,  where he was born and where his parents worked in a bank. When Mr. Peterson was a student at Morehouse College in Atlanta, his principal interest was music, but he soon turned to theater. Subsequently, he studied at the Yale School of Drama, where he met and married the actress Peggy Feury. They were later divorced. There are no survivors.
        While he was a graduate student at New York University, he acted in several plays Off Broadway. When Theodore Ward's ''Our Lan' '' moved to Broadway in 1947, Mr. Peterson was in the cast. In 1950, he was an understudy and assistant stage manager for ''Member of the Wedding.'' During that period, he studied play-writing with Clifford Odets and considered that undertaking a life-changing experience. ''Take a Giant Step'' was a result of that training.
        After his initial success, he wrote other plays (''Entertain a Ghost'' in 1962) and movie and television scripts. He collaborated with Julius J. Epstein on the screenplay for  ''Take a Giant Step.'' Other credits include ''Joey'' on television and ''The Court-Martial of Billy Mitchell.'' He also wrote the screenplay for the movie version of William Styron's novel ''The Confessions of Nat Turner,'' but the film was not made.
        For many years, he worked on the play ''Crazy Horse,'' which opened in 1979 at Henry Street Settlement's New Federal Theater. With the sweep of a James Baldwin novel, ''Crazy Horse'' told the story of a black journalist (played by Joe Morton) with a white wife. As in Mr. Peterson's other work, there were freshly observed minor characters: a wise grandmother (Minnie Gentry), a bigoted mother (Beatrice Winde) and an alcoholic actor (played with high style by the playwright Charles Gordone).
        From 1967 to 1993, Mr. Peterson taught in the theater arts department of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, where his play ''Another Show'' was staged with students in 1983. In an interview at the time, he reflected on the beginning of his career: ''I realized that jobs for black actors in New York were very few. I saw the writing on the wall and began working on 'Giant Step.' It was a fluke, a surprise. I finished it, and two weeks after I sent it to an agent, it was optioned. I haven't acted since.'' Referring to his work in movies and on television, he said, that was ''to buy time to work on something important.''
      