
        Tony Lavelli, an all-America basketball player at Yale University in the 1940's and a forward with the Boston Celtics and the Knicks who was equally adept at hook shots and halftime renditions on the accordion, died last Thursday at his home in Laconia, N.H. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Specializing in long-range hook shots, the 6-foot-3-inch Lavelli became the leading career scorer in major college basketball on March 5, 1949, eclipsing George Mikan's record of 1,870 points set for DePaul.
        Lavelli, who had been a high school star in Somerville, Mass., scored 1,964 points in four seasons at Yale, a school mark exceeded only by Butch Graves in the early 1980's. He led Yale to the championship of the Ivy League (then the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball League) and a National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament berth in 1949.
        Lavelli was a first-round draft pick of the Boston Celtics in 1949 in an era when the team was looking to local players to lure fans.
        One Celtic player, Saul Mariaschin of Harvard, wrote music and was a fine piano player. Lavelli played the piano, too, but he was accomplished on the accordion as well, having once made a guest performance with the New Haven Symphony.
        When the Celtics and their opponents left the Boston Garden court at halftime, Lavelli had no chance to rest. He would entertain the fans with accordion renditions of ''Granada'' and ''Lady of Spain.''
        He averaged 8.8 points in his one season with the Celtics, then played one season with the Knicks, seeing relatively little action. But New York had something to offer beyond Madison Square Garden -- Lavelli studied at the Juilliard School of Music.
        He then went on tour for three years with the Harlem Globetrotters, playing for the opposing team and providing the halftime music.
        Lavelli later wrote numerous songs and entertained at nightclubs and theaters, devoting his life to songwriting. ''He would wake up in the middle of the night and write a song,'' his sister Doris Duff of Gloucester, Mass., recalled yesterday.
        Lavelli's survivors include two other sisters, Virginia Fitzgerald Lovett of Lexington, Mass., and Meredith, N.H., and Phyllis Mars of Sun City Center, Fla.; a niece, six nephews and his cousin Dante Lavelli, a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame who was an end for the Cleveland Browns in the 1940's and 50's.
        Walt Budko, who played against Lavelli while at Columbia and as a member of the Baltimore Bullets, remembered a half-century later how Lavelli had a fine shooting touch although he lacked toughness.
        He said that Lavelli ''played a shooting kind of game that took him out of the play, though he could make those shots. His arm would be out of bounds when he made hook shots from the corner. But you'd get him underneath and you'd pound.''
        ''Tony was a nice man, played a good accordion, too,'' Budko said. ''I can just see him playing 'Granada' at halftime.''
      