
        Charles (Bebe) Rebozo, a self-made Florida millionaire who met Richard M. Nixon in 1950 and became his lifelong friend, died last night in Miami. He was 85 years old, born just three months before Mr. Nixon, the man who became the 37th President of the United States.
        The Rebozo-Nixon relationship flourished on a shared history of hard-scrabble beginnings in the Depression -- one in Florida, the other in California -- and innate reserve. Over more than 40 years, Mr. Rebozo remained a quiet, loyal friend.
        He later paid a price for his friendship: years of intrusive examinations of his private and professional life by Senate and Federal investigators of the Watergate affair that prematurely ended Mr. Nixon's Presidency in disgrace.
        Had Mr. Rebozo's not entered the halls of the mighty, his life and death probably would have gone largely unnoticed outside his community of Key Biscayne, a small island with less than 9,000 residents.
        Mr. Rebozo was a real estate developer and later a banker. He met Mr. Nixon by chance. George Smathers, a classmate from Miami High School who had just won election to the Senate as a Democrat campaigning as an anti-communist in the McCarthy era, asked Mr. Rebozo to entertain a newly elected Senator from California -- Mr. Nixon, who also was elected on an anti-communist platform.
        Mr. Rebozo offered to take Mr. Nixon fishing but Senator Nixon, never a sport fisherman, had a pile of papers with him, which he continued to work on. ''I doubt if I exchanged half a dozen words with the guy,'' Mr. Rebozo recalled 20 years later. But that was enough to cement a friendship. They both liked Broadway show tunes, spectator sports and charcoal-broiled steaks. Mr. Rebozo even paid for a bowling alley in the White House.
        Early on, Mr. Rebozo became something of an investment adviser to Mr. Nixon, as well as his real estate broker. Before the 1968 election, Mr. Nixon estimated his assets at $800,000, half of it in Florida real estate.
        Mr. Rebozo was extremely discreet, usually refusing press interviews. ''He's my friend and my friend happens to be President,'' he said in 1970.
        Mr. Rebozo's wealth was estimated to have increased from $673,000 in 1968, when he was still a registered Democrat (he switched that year to the Republicans), to $4 million a few years later.
        In 1971, Newsday published a lengthy series that focused on the financial relationships of Senator Smathers, President Nixon and Mr. Rebozo, particularly on Florida land deals. Mr. Nixon withdrew from one project in 1970 and Newsday said he had realized a huge profit from his Fisher's Island dealings.
        As the scandal surrounding the break-in at Democratic campaign headquarters in the Watergate office complex evolved into the discovery of a White House coverup, Mr. Rebozo became a target of Watergate investigators, first by the Senate and later by Federal prosecutors. In 1975 the Justice Department concluded there was ''no basis for indictment'' on charges that Mr. Rebozo had converted Nixon campaign contributions to personal use.
        But the Internal Revenue Service disputed his reporting of taxable income for 1970 and 1971. In January 1977 he agreed to pay $52,474 in back taxes plus interest.
        Mr. Rebozo was the chief executive of the Key Biscayne Bank, whose motto was ''where other banks have branches, we have roots,'' from 1964 to 1990 and president of Key Land Co, his real estate company.
        Fittingly, the man who had taken Nixon on that first cruise in 1950, was a guest on board the yacht Sequoia when President Nixon took his last presidential cruise, before his resignation, on the Potomac on Aug. 2, 1974.
        Mr. Rebozo continued to help Mr. Nixon in his business affairs long after he had left the White House. In 1979 he purchased an estate for $650,000 in San Clemente for the Nixons.
        A few years before Mr. Nixon's death he broke silence to describe his friend as '' a strange animal, just not like anyone you'll ever know -- a very sensitive man, very thoughtful and of course very brilliant, with a memory like an elephant.''
        Charles Gregory Rebozo was born Nov. 17, 1912, in Tampa, the last of nine children of Francisco and Carmen Rebozo. Francisco Rebozo was a cigar maker who had emigrated to Florida from Cuba. The family moved to Miami when he was 8. ''Bebe'' (pronounced BEE bee) was a nickname given him by an elder brother who couldn't pronounce ''baby.'' It stuck.
        He married Claire Gunn when they both were 18. The union was annulled three years later.
        He worked briefly for Pan American Airways as a steward, then bought a gas station, and began buying undeveloped parcels of land, the beginning of his career in real estate.
        At the outset of World War II, Mr. Rebozo bought a Piper Cub and learned to fly. In 1943 he rejoined Pan American and, after training as a navigator. helped ferry about 100 warplanes to North Africa for the Army's Air Transport Command.
        He remarried his high school sweetheart, Claire, in 1946, but they divorced four years later.
        Mr. Rebozo's mother died in 1978.
      