
        Myres Smith McDougal, an authority on international law and co-founder of the New Haven school of jurisprudence, died on Thursday at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. A longtime resident of New Haven, he was 91.
        He died after a long illness, according to the Yale Law School, where he was Sterling Professor emeritus of Law.
        He earned his doctor of laws degree at Yale in 1931 and joined the faculty there three years later, initially specializing in property law. He turned his attention to international law after a stint in Government service during World War II.
        Over the decades, he trained generations of law students who later became politicians, diplomats, judges, academics and practicing lawyers. He attained emeritus status at Yale in 1975 but continued to teach and assist his students well into his 80's at Yale and also at New York Law School, where he was Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law.
        Yale has endowed a chair in his name. Its first appointee was named last month.
        His jurisprudence, known as the New Haven school, was ''configurative'' and ''policy oriented,'' as he himself put it. He established this approach in collaboration with Harold D. Lasswell, a political scientist at Yale and a frequent co-author with whom he took a policy-science approach to the study of law.
        They took law to be not simply a body of rules but a communal decision-making process. They first outlined the concept in ''Legal Education and Public Policy,'' a basic and path-breaking article in its field that was published in the Yale Law Journal in 1943.
        A native of Burton, Miss., Professor McDougal graduated from the University of Mississippi in 1926. Having studied the classics, he briefly taught Greek and Latin. He received his first law degree in 1929 at Oxford University, which invited him to teach, but he returned to the United States for his doctorate and briefly taught at the University of Illinois before joining the Yale faculty.
        In Professor McDougal's view, the challenge was to find an approach to the study and practice of law that applies law in such a way that it contributes to the achievement of a public order that, as its founders put it, remains respectful of human dignity. But beyond the New Haven school, he made important contributions to international law.
        Working with his students, he produced six major treatises on international issues. Among other things, they covered the law of the sea, of outer space, of war and of human rights.
        One of his most recent works, with Dr. Lasswell, was ''Jurisprudence For a Free Society: Studies in Law, Science and Policy'' (Nijhoff, 1992).
        He was a past president of the American Society of International Law (1958) and the Association of American Law Schools (1966).
        He is survived by his wife of 64 years, Frances Lee McDougal, and their son, John L., also of New Haven.
      