
        Ordway Hilton, a budding mathematician who emerged as one of the nation's foremost authorities on detecting forged documents, died on April 15 at a hospital in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 84 and had played a role in exposing some of the century's most celebrated forgeries, and, in an embarrassing episode, erroneously authenticating one.
        A native of Chicago who grew up in Evanston, Ill., Mr. Hilton majored in mathematics at Northwestern University and stayed on to obtain a master's degree in mathematical statistics in 1937.
        At Northwestern, Mr. Hilton, a great-grandson of a Northwestern founder, met the woman who would be his wife, a statistics student named Lillie Lee Atkinson. The romance was a tradition, of sorts: Mr. Hilton's paternal grandparents and his parents met as students at Northwestern.
        Mr. Hilton found work as a corporate statistician, but not enough to support a wife. So when he realized he wanted to get married more than he wanted to be a mathematician, Mr. Hilton checked with the university placement office. The next thing he knew he had a wife and a job as the first documents examiner at the Chicago Police Department's new crime laboratory.
        Mr. Hilton knew nothing about evaluating the authenticity of documents, but in 1938 he was far from alone. The field was a comparatively new specialty that had come to prominence with the case of the kidnapping of the son of the aviator Charles Lindbergh in 1932, and developed only a handful of recognized experts. It did not take Mr. Hilton long to become one of them.
        Mr. Hilton was soon winning a name for himself in the fledgling field, but by the time he was called up by the Naval Reserve in World War II, Mr. Hilton had tired of working exclusively on criminal cases.
        While still on active stateside duty in 1944, he sought to broaden the scope of his work, leading him to a meeting of the embryonic American Society of Questioned Document Examiners at the Montclair, N.J., home of one of the group's founders, Albert S. Osborn, a giant in the field.
        Another founder at the meeting, Elbridge Stein, who had worked on the Lindbergh case and was one of the two leading document examiners in New York City, was so taken with Mr. Hilton that after the war, in 1946, he invited him to become his partner. Mr. Hilton worked alone after Mr. Stein's retirement in 1951.
        From an office at 15 Park Row, Mr. Hilton was in the forefront of his profession, detecting everything from altered medical records in damage suits to determining that Clifford Irving's celebrated ''autobiography'' of Howard Hughes was a fake. He helped solidify his field's scientific and scholarly foundations, turning out more than 90 papers and producing the authoritative textbook ''Scientific Examination of Questioned Documents.''
        He also helped perfect sophisticated techniques for detecting and deciphering erased pencil writing, deciphering charred or waterlogged documents and spotting the subtle variations among type from countless typewriter makes and models.
        Mr. Hilton, who became famous among his fellow commuters for working incessantly during train rides between New York and his home in New Jersey, won wide respect among lawyers, judges and his fellow professionals.
        A founding member of the American Society of Forensic Scientists, he served as president of the group and of the society of document examiners and lectured widely.
        Known for his high ethical standards, Mr. Hilton dismayed more than a few clients who may have hoped that a paid expert would shade his findings to their advantage. Hired, for example, to authenticate the famous Howard Hughes will naming Melvin Dummar as Mr. Hughes's beneficiary, Mr. Hilton pronounced it a forgery.
        It was a tribute to his standing that when Mr. Hilton, who moved his practice to Landrum, S.C., in 1979, was duped into bolstering the claim that diaries turned up by the German magazine Stern had been written by Hitler, his reputation survived the episode intact.
        Given what he was told were photostatic copies of pages from the diaries and examples of Hitler's writing, Mr. Hilton said that both sets of documents had been produced by the same hand. Indeed, they had, though the common hand turned out not to have been Hitler's but the forger's.
        In addition to his wife of 59 years, Mr. Hilton is survived by a sister, Beatrice Moulton of Okemos, Mich.
      