
        W. Harcourt Woods, an articulate and tireless advocate of tennis's international Davis Cup team competition, who for four decades served the United States Tennis Association in a range of administrative posts, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 85.
        Mr. Woods was known as Hocky by his friends and associates, but that nickname was not taken from the sport he loved and played best. Tennis was his lifelong passion, and in addition to being a respectable club player, Mr. Woods played an active role in the refinement and democratization of the format for Davis Cup competition during his decade as chairman of the United States Davis Cup committee.
        He was also chairman of the International Lawn Tennis Federation's Davis Cup management committee in 1972 and 1973 and served as an international delegate to the Davis Cup committee from 1975 to 1980.
        He was chairman of the U.S.T.A.'s  championships committee from 1955 to 1965 and was the organization's treasurer in 1973.
        Perhaps the best evidence of the recognition Mr. Woods gained within the global tennis community for his efforts on behalf of Davis Cup was his election in 1980 as an honorary member of the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, an honor rarely bestowed on non-Britons who have not won Wimbledon.
        ''He was a workhorse, and he made a huge contribution to tennis through his guidance of Davis Cup to the sort of organization and stature it has today,'' said Harry Marmion, the U.S.T.A. president. ''There aren't many U.S.'ers who are elected to the All England Club, so that gives some indication of the esteem the tennis world had for Hocky Woods and the work he did to promote Davis Cup back in the days before the International Tennis Federation took over.''
        Mr. Woods was director of purchasing for the National Lead Company in New York City, his home, for 45 years until his retirement in 1975. He moved to Short Hills in 1955 and was a member of the Short Hills Club and the Baltusrol Golf Club.
        He was a director and secretary of the National Tennis Foundation and Hall of Fame from 1979 to 1992. In 1993, he was named honorary secretary of the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Morrow Britten Woods; three sons, W. Harcourt Woods Jr., David M. Britten and Peter M. Britten, and three daughters, Whitney Woods Taylor, Kendall Woods and Margaret Britten Sorge, eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      