
        Paul G. Hearne, a high-spirited Washington lawyer who for more than two decades was one of the nation's most effective champions for people with disabilities, died on May 3 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 48 and had been a founder or officer of virtually every national organization devoted to the disabled.
        His family said the cause was complications from pneumonia.
        In a city of movers and shakers, Mr. Hearne was a wheeler-dealer with a difference: He would zip through the corridors of power on his motorized scooter, screech to a halt millimeters away from a bureaucrat's toes, and then, with a combination of persuasive logic and infectious good humor, win yet another convert to his lifelong campaign to make life easier for those with disabilities and more fun for everybody.
        Along the way he started the first legal services office for the disabled; ran Just One Break Inc., the nation's first private job placement agency for the disabled, from 1979 to 1989; served as director of the National Council on Disability, and had a hand in writing the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.
        He also helped start and run the Dole Foundation for Employment of People With Disabilities, the American Association of People With Disabilities and the Disabilities Studies Group.
        Not bad for a man born with such a debilitating disorder that he never grew to as much as four feet tall, spent most of his childhood in body casts and in traction, did not go to school until he was 15 and had such brittle bones throughout his life that he once estimated he had broken each of his legs hundreds of times, often in his sleep, and said he had lost count of how many times he had broken a rib with a sneeze.
        For all the apparent limitations imposed by his condition, osteogenesis imperfecta, Mr. Hearne's only concession to his disability was laughter. And from the time his parents enrolled him in a new school for the disabled, the Human Resources Center in Albertson, N.Y., he was flying.
        Yes, he had to be taken to school on a litter wearing a cast that extended from his armpits to his ankles. But Mr. Hearne, who was born in Floral Park, N.Y., and had previously been tutored at home, was so delighted at being out in the world that by the time he graduated in 1967 he had been elected student council president; taught ham radio, a lifelong passion, to fellow students; worked as a counselor at the school's summer camp and maintained such a high academic average that he was his class salutatorian.
        His high school was geared to students with disabilities, but when he got to Hofstra University, where he would eventually earn a law degree, Mr. Hearne began to discover and chafe at the myriad little restrictions an unthinking society sometimes imposes on those who do not conform to the standard physical mold.
        Mr. Hearne was determined not to be shut out of campus social life. Confronted by one of those Catch-22 policies -- disabled students restricted to first-floor dormitory rooms (so they could get out in case of fire) by a university with no first-floor dormitory rooms -- he organized a protest that succeeded in changing the policy and won him a second-floor room.
        Despite that early success, Mr. Hearne did not decide to become a full-time advocate for the disabled until a legal-service agency he worked for in Brooklyn moved, with his co-workers' blessing, to an upper floor in a building without an elevator.
        Incensed that people who knew and worked with him would be so oblivious to his plight, Mr. Hearne, who derived a grim measure of satisfaction from the fact that his co-workers had to carry him up to his office, decided to set the world straight.
        In quick order he started a legal service for the disabled, wrote the first legal handbook on the rights of the disabled, became a consultant to major corporations seeking to employ the disabled and set out on the course that would take him to Washington in 1989.
        Mr. Hearne, whose afflictions included an overactive blarney gland, maintained such good cheer in the face of his own disabilities that at meetings of the Disabled Studies Group no one could keep a straight face, least of all the bartenders of Washington. They knew that when Mr. Hearne, his buddies John Kemp and Rick Douglas, and other members wheeled through the door for an evening of serious study, the laughter would flow like beer and the joint would be jumping all night.
        Mr. Hearne, who was separated, is survived by his wife, Pamela, of New York; his mother, Patricia, of Floral Park; and a sister, Jennifer Hughes, of Rockville Center, N.Y.
      