
        John Peter, the New York art director whose poster of a blue rooster with fluttering Allied flags atop the message ''Le Jour Se Leve'' cheered war-weary Parisians after the Liberation in 1944, died on May 1 in Philadelphia on a business trip. He was 81 and had homes in Norwalk, Conn., and Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Peter, a past president of the Art Directors Club of New York, spent six decades in communications. He served as art director and editor for magazines including Life, Look and McCall's.
        An enthusiast of modern architecture, he recorded oral histories of architects like Le Corbusier, Walter Gropius and Frank Lloyd Wright beginning in the 1940's, and in 1994 he  published ''The Oral History of Modern Architecture.'' It was an encyclopedic effort that came with a CD-ROM of those early interviews and others done over 40 years. The CD also included an audio course, ''The Modern Architectural Revolution.''
        During World War II he served as the civilian art director of the Supreme Headquarters of American Expeditionary Forces in London, Paris and Bad Nauheim, Germany. He designed the leaflets that American planes dropped by the ton over German-occupied Europe.
        The city of Paris awarded Mr. Peter its Vermeil Medal for the poster, whose encouraging theme, ''The Day Will Rise,'' greeted the citizenry from shop windows and kiosks. It was displayed once again throughout Paris in 1994 on the 50th anniversary of the Liberation.
        John Peter was born in Seattle and first wanted to become a cartoonist. After three years of college back home, he headed for New York City and Fordham University, where he graduated in 1940.
        After the war he worked as an art director for Cowles Publications. Later, with his Manhattan-based international consulting firm, he enlisted clients in this country and in Europe and won editorial and art awards.
        Mr. Peter's wife and collaborator, Anna Broughton Peter, died in 1993. He is survived by four daughters, Laurie and Sarah Peter of Manhattan, Wendy Abt of Cambridge, Mass., and Molly Peter of Washington, and nine grandchildren.
      