
        Mordechai Strigler, the editor of the Yiddish-language Forward and one of the most prolific Yiddish writers of the postwar period, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 76.
        The cause was a brain injury from a fall, said Dr. Barnett Zumoff, president of the Forward Association Inc., which owns the Yiddish Forward.
        Mr. Strigler was the author of  thousands of stories, poems, essays and political opinion pieces. He also wrote ''Oisgebrente Likht'' (''Extinguished Candle''), a six-volume autobiographical work written in a poetic style about his experiences during the Holocaust. The work was among the first written accounts of that period by a survivor. Meyer Levin  wrote about Mr. Strigler in his memoir ''In Search'' after encountering him as a prisoner during the liberation of Buchenwald.
        Mr. Strigler was born in 1921 in Zamosc, Poland, one among eight children of a farmer. In ''In Search,'' Mr. Levin described him as having a small ''intellectual face widening upward from a delicate chin to a broad forehead.''
        He came from a Hasidic family and at age 11 he was sent to the Kletzker Yeshiva, one of Poland's most distinguished yeshivas. He graduated when he was 16 and went to Warsaw, where he worked as a secretary for a well-known rabbi, Zvi Yehezkel Michelson, and taught classes in the Talmud to adults.
        When World War II broke out, Mr. Strigler fought at the barricades of Warsaw alongside Polish partisans. He tried to escape to Russia, but was arrested by German soldiers at the border. The soldiers carved swastikas into his cheeks and forehead. Mr. Strigler was imprisoned in different work and concentration camps, including Maidanek and Buchenwald, where he became a member of the underground resistance.
        He also taught Jewish children in the camp, Mr. Levin wrote, ''assembling them secretly at night in his barracks, giving them instructions in Yiddish and Hebrew,'' and tried to organize literary evenings during which the prisoners ''tried to whisper poems and bits of history that they had known in order to keep their minds from dying.'' Mr. Strigler's parents and three of his sisters perished in concentration camps.
        He is survived by his wife, Esther, and a daughter, Leah, both of Manhattan; and two sisters, Rochelle Degen and Anne Brenner, both of Chicago.
        After the war, Mr. Strigler accompanied a transport of Jewish orphans  to Paris and began his autobiographical series. It consisted of ''Maidanek'' (1947); ''In di Fabriken fun Toit'' (''In the Death Factories'') (1948); ''Verk Tze'' (''Factory Three'') in two volumes (1950), and ''Gorales'' (''Destinies'') in two volumes (1952). In Paris, Mr. Strigler also became editor of a Yiddish newspaper, Unzer Vort (Our Word).
        In 1953, he traveled to the United States on a speaking trip and decided to stay, becoming editor of The Yidisher Kemfer (The Jewish Fighter), a Labor Zionist weekly newspaper. At Yidisher Kemfer, Mr. Strigler published most of the great Yiddish writers of his time, including Abraham Reizen, H. Leivik, Chaim Grade, Jacob Glatstein and Isaac Bashevis Singer. He remained its editor until 1995. He also wrote for the paper using some 20 pseudonyms, a tradition in Yiddish writing, with a special pseudonym reserved for a particular topic. He was also active in the Labor Zionist movement in New York.
        Around the time Mr. Strigler took on the editorship of Yidisher Kemfer, he began writing for the Yiddish Forward. Among his first contributions was a series on Jewish responsa literature, which is about the questions people ask rabbis. Mr. Strigler also wrote a column for the Yiddish  Forward on Jewish philosophy.
        In 1987, he became editor of the Yiddish Forward. Founded in 1897,  the newspaper had once been the center of a vibrant immigrant culture and had provided a gateway into American life for generations of newly arrived Jews from Russia and Eastern Europe. But by the time Mr. Strigler took over, its readership was dying off. To reach a new English-speaking generation of Jews, the children of those original Yiddish-speaking immigrants, a sister publication, the English-language Forward, was founded in 1990.
        Today, the Yiddish Forward is one of the last Yiddish-language newspapers in the world. Another paper, The Algemeiner Journal, is aimed at a  Hasidic audience. The Yiddish Forward has about 10,000 readers, mostly in the United States and the former Soviet Union. The English-language Forward has a circulation of about 26,000.
        At the Yiddish Forward's office in the Workmen's Circle building on East 33d Street in Manhattan, Mr. Strigler struggled to keep the paper alive. In 1994, The New Yorker writer David Remnick interviewed Mr. Strigler there: ''I come in, and here someone is sick, there someone is sick, so I have to finish things on my own,'' Mr. Strigler said in the interview. ''He slumped in his chair and raised his brows, Yiddishly, toward Heaven,'' Mr. Remnick wrote. ''What can I do?''
      