
        David Selden, whose combative leadership of the American Federation of Teachers earned him a 60-day jail term alongside striking teachers in Newark in 1968, died on Friday at Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 83, and lived in Kalamazoo.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his wife, Bernice Selden.
        Mr. Selden, the son of a Michigan school superintendent and principal, served as president of the federation, the nation's second-largest teachers' union, for three two-year terms, from 1968 to 1974. His bid for a fourth term was defeated by Albert Shanker, whom Mr. Selden had hired as a fellow organizer in the turbulent days leading up to the creation of the United Federation of Teachers, which would become the union's largest local, in New York City in the early 1960's.
        In the early 1970's, the two split bitterly amid accusations that Mr. Selden was accelerating protracted merger talks with the union's rival, the National Education Association. Mr. Shanker led the federation for the next 22 years, until his death last year. (In January, the two unions finally announced plans for the long-discussed merger.)
        Mr. Shanker's protege and successor, Sandra Feldman, praised Mr. Selden yesterday as a ''brilliant organizer and strategist.''
        Mr. Selden, who was born in Grand Haven, Mich., on June 5, 1914, first worked in the labor movement during the Great Depression, when he served as an organizer for the United Auto Workers while a part-time employee at a Pontiac auto factory.
        He worked his way through Michigan State Normal College, now Eastern Michigan University, by stringing together a variety of part-time jobs -- 23 in one year alone, he once estimated -- including one as a professional banjo player. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in 1936, and later earned a master's degree from Wayne State University.
        Mr. Selden's first job after college was as a history teacher in Dearborn, Mich., where he became active in the Dearborn Federation of Teachers, the A.F.T. local. He later was its president.
        After enlisting in the Navy and serving as a lieutenant on a destroyer in the Atlantic and Pacific, he taught in Florida and New York. In 1949, he joined the national staff of the American Federation of Teachers as a union organizer. Mr. Selden, who covered the Eastern half of the United States, was one of only two professional organizers in a union that had just 35,000 members.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Selden increasingly focused on efforts to organize teachers in New York City. With the backing of Walter Reuther, the longtime leader of the United Auto Workers union, and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Mr. Selden helped the New York City local, known then as the Teachers Guild, start a collective-bargaining campaign for the exclusive right to represent the city's 45,000 teachers in contract negotiations with the school system.
        The local won that right, in a 1961 election, nearly doubling the size of its national organization overnight. Shortly afterward, Mr. Selden helped the city's teachers secure a 20-percent salary increase.
        Seven years later, in 1968, his first year as president of the federation, Mr. Selden was arrested and charged with contempt for picketing alongside teachers in Newark during a strike that lasted most of February. The teachers had walked out in defiance of a State Superior Court judge, who had ordered them to stay in their classrooms.
        At the time, Mr. Selden complained that by relying on an old state law to prohibit the strike, the judge was treating the teachers ''as if they were working for the King of England in the 16th century.''
        Mr. Selden was one of dozens of teachers and sympathizers arrested. His 60-day jail sentence, which his wife said he served in full, was one of the stiffest meted out.
        In addition to his third wife, the former Bernice Seach, who was a psychologist in the New York City schools when they married in 1956, Mr. Selden is survived by their son, John Selden of Kalamazoo, and two daughters, each from a previous marriage that ended in divorce, Christine Hamor of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass., and Denise Bowman of Dedham, Mass.
      