
        Clarence Cecil Pell, an aviation insurance executive, who was probably better known as the preserver of medieval court tennis in America, died on Tuesday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. R.I. A former resident of Old Westbury, N.Y., he was 86 and had made Narragansett, R.I., his permanent home since retiring in the mid-1970's.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Pell went into the aviation insurance business after serving as a pilot with the Army Air Forces in World War II. In 1968, the world's airlines chose him as founding director general of Air Transport Insurance, S.A., a self-insurance arrangement.
        He was responsible for staffing, organizing and managing the airline-owned cooperative through which the carriers provided their own coverage. He also headed a similar organization serving the nuclear-power industry, as well as serving as a consultant on insurance matters to the Federal Aviation Administration.
        Mr. Pell was an ardent, championship-class player of racquet and court tennis, which is also known as royal tennis. A stickler for purity, he spoke of court tennis simply as tennis and referred to the upstart version practiced at Wimbledon as ''lawners.''
        Court tennis, which is the forerunner of most modern racquet games, is believed to have originated in 14th-century France, though it arrived in the United States only in 1876, well after its offspring had crossed the ocean.
        French and English royalty were among the early fanciers of the sport played by twosomes or foursomes in an indoor cement court surrounded by four walls. The ball, made of tightly wound cloth, is bounced over the net off the walls, floor and ceiling. Scoring is intricate, and hitting the ball into wall openings wins extra points.
        Mr. Pell enjoyed his last game just two weeks ago.
        Mr. Pell was on the board of the Racquet and Tennis Club of New York from 1952 to 1997. He was also a governor of the Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club in Locust Valley, N.Y., for 51 years, 16 as president, and helped add two outdoor skating rinks to its attractions.
        He won the national racquet doubles championship eight times from 1937 to 1959. In 1958, he also took the national singles title.
        A 1933 graduate of Harvard College, Mr. Pell was a descendant of Sir John Pell, Lord of the Manor of Pelham, who owned much of what is now Westchester County. He took part in several of the historic ceremonies, held periodically, in which the City of New Rochelle gave the Pell family ''one fat calfe'' to meet the terms of a 1689 sales contract for 6,000 acres on which it was founded. The French Huguenot founders of the city also paid Sir John 1,625 pounds sterling.
        Mr. Pell was a first cousin of Claiborne Pell, a United States Senator from Rhode Island from 1960 to 1996.
        Mr. Pell is survived by his wife of 39 years, Francesca Hinckley Pell; his daughter, Eve Pell of Mill Valley, Calif.; two sons, Peter J. of Glen Cove, N.Y., and Haven N. B. Pell of Washington; nine grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      