
        MANY executives bounce between private industry and public service in the course of their careers. But Frank G. Zarb seems to oscillate, like a radio wave, between Wall Street and Washington.
        He left New York the first time for the Department of Labor under President Richard M. Nixon. He left again for the Office of Management and Budget and Gerald R. Ford later named him ''energy czar'' during the 1970's oil crisis, a job with all the comfort of a seat in the dunking booth at the fair.
        But after each government job, Mr. Zarb, 63, has always come back to New York -- ''There was never any question of that'' -- usually to rescue a company bound for oblivion.
        So after Mr. Zarb left for Washington yet again last year, this time to take over the troubled National Association of Security Dealers, the parent of the Nasdaq stock market, his friends were not surprised to learn recently that he was thinking of moving the market to Manhattan.
        Or that he might even plunk part of the operation into the bright new heart of Times Square, where it could compete for television time with the famous gavel-banging scenes of its older competitor, the New York Stock Exchange.
        While neither move is certain, Mr. Zarb says that one thing is: Nasdaq, which is preparing to merge with the American Stock Exchange, needs a ''big footprint in New York City.''
        Where that footprint will be and how it will look are things that he professes to be leaving to marketing and image experts. ''My background,'' he says with characteristic modesty, ''doesn't give me the ability to make that kind of measurement.''
        But those who know Mr. Zarb say that it is precisely his background that gives him a deeper appreciation of the power of appearance than most executives have.
        He was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn, into a family of Italian and Maltese immigrants, where his only formative experience in business was watching his father, a refrigerator repairman, fill out the invoices. He went to the Manhattan High School of Aviation Trades, where, instead of learning about stocks, he learned how to fix airplanes.
        ''The traditional view of life for that culture, at that stage, was learn a good trade and you'd always be able to earn a living for you and your family,'' he said yesterday in a telephone interview from Venice, where he and his wife, Pat, are celebrating their 40th wedding anniversary. (They have actually been married 41 years but the trip was canceled last year because of -- what else? -- business.)
        ''To become an airline mechanic,'' Mr. Zarb said, ''looked to me like a pretty good choice.''
        BUT a high school English teacher helped him attend one of the few colleges that would agree to waive the entrance exam -- Hofstra University -- and Mr. Zarb began to study business. The topic of his master's thesis was not a lofty one: Do clean restrooms and friendly oil checks make gas stations more profitable? By the early 1960's he had worked his way into the back room -- the clerical half -- of a Wall Street firm, Goodbody & Company.
        In those days the firms were still places, as Mr. Zarb likes to point out,  where the ''front office was made up of a bunch of rich guys who sold stocks and bonds to other rich guys.''
        But that was all beginning to change, in part because of men like Sanford I. Weill, who recently engineered the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group, the firm he built.
        Mr. Weill, the son of immigrants from Poland who grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, was building the firm that eventually became the Shearson securities firm, and he recruited Mr. Zarb to build his back office. A year later, Mr. Zarb helped the firm capture another securities business, and he was on his way. By the next year, the Labor Department was calling.
        The portrait Mr. Zarb offers from those days is less as a wunderkind and more as a kind of Chauncey Gardiner, the innocent played by Peter Sellers in ''Being There.''
        ''To a great extent, you know, I was in the right place at the right time,'' he said.
        Representative John D. Dingell, a Democrat of Michigan and one of Mr. Zarb's angriest critics when he was energy chief, scoffs. ''This is a man who is a fighter and has lots of guts and is one of the smartest guys I know,'' he said. (The two are now hunting buddies. When Mr. Zarb, a Republican, was leaving Washington in the 1970's, Mr. Dingell drove to his house to present him with a hunting rifle. Mr. Zarb recalls the visit: ''He came to the door and Pat said, 'My God, he's finally come to shoot us.' What he said was, 'I want you to leave town as my friend.' '')
        Yesterday, as the phone line from Venice began to crackle and fade, Mr. Zarb seemed eager to get back to the anniversary celebration he had postponed.
        And to try to forget the mountain of work he has to climb when he returns -- a merger and a possible corporate relocation. (He recently stepped down as the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority after helping to put together the proposed partial state takeover of the Long Island Lighting Company.) Of his belated vacation, he said: ''I'm only learning now at this stage of my life, that those are pretty important events, and it's not a good idea to put them off.''
        Not quite sounding as if he believed it, he added: ''You can't take yourself too seriously. The world will go on without you.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      