
        Earl Manigault, a New York City playground legend whose superior basketball talent deteriorated with years of heroin use, depriving him of a chance for a professional career, died Thursday night at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Richard Pallos, a spokesman at Bellevue.
        Manigault, who twice underwent heart surgery, entered the hospital two weeks ago with heart complications. Doctors said for years that he needed a heart transplant, but he had been rejected once because his health was so bad he was considered a poor candidate. Recently he resisted advice to get a transplant.
        ''All of my doctors are telling me that my heart is very weak,'' Manigault said last summer. ''They say I need a transplant, but I say I feel good.''
        In the 1960's Manigault, who grew up on the Upper West Side playing along with Lew Alcindor, now known as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, established a playground reputation few have matched. Although he was relatively small at 6 feet 1 inch, he had a remarkable leaping ability that allowed him to soar over taller opponents, as well as an array of flashy moves under the basket.
        In storied matchups against other city stars like Alcindor, Connie Hawkins and Joe (the Destroyer) Hammond, Manigault (pronounced MAN-eh-galt) helped enhance New York's playground legend as a breeding ground for young stars.
        ''There weren't too many little guys back then soaring to the hoop and dunking on and blocking the shots of guys 6-9 and 6-10,'' Manigault said in a recent interview. ''I was a pioneer in that sense, that's why I became so popular.''
        Manigault, nicknamed the Goat because a teacher once mispronunced his last name as Mani-Goat, was famous for his mid-air acrobatics. Thousands of people swear they saw him perform a move known as the Double Dunk, in which he would slam the ball through a net, catch it as it dropped through the cords and, still airborne, dunk it again.
        It was this kind of exhibition that sent fans flocking to any park where Manigault was playing, especially to places like Rucker Park in Harlem and the playground at 99th Street and Amsterdam Avenue that came to be known as Goat Park.
        It was there that Manigault honed his reputation as a showman and a hustler. He would win bets against those who refused to believe that the mighty springs in his legs could enable him to pick a quarter off the top of a backboard. He once dunked a ball backward 36 times in a row to win a $60 bet.
        ''Earl and I would get together on Saturday mornings and play a lot of three-on-three basketball in the park or wherever the real good games were being played,'' Abdul-Jabbar said in an interview several years ago. ''Earl was more of a street player than I was, so he never really got the same type of mainstream recognition that I got in high school.''
        While Abdul-Jabbar was making a name for himself as an all-city basketball player at Power Memorial High School in midtown, Manigault became a star at Benjamin Franklin High School in Harlem. But in his senior year he was kicked out of school for smoking marijuana.
        He spent one season at Laurinburg Institute, a North Carolina prep school, where he drew the attention of schools like North Carolina, Duke and Indiana. Feeling he would not be able to meet the academic requirements of such schools, Manigault chose instead to attend Johnson C. Smith University, a predominantly black school in Charlotte, N.C.
        The move backfired. Manigault continued to struggle academically, squabbled with his coach about playing time and returned to the playgrounds of New York, where a drug addiction slowly began to destroy his great athletic ability.
        In 1969, the same year Abdul-Jabbar was made a rookie millionaire by the Milwaukee Bucks, Manigault was arrested for possession of drugs, and spent 16 months of a five-year sentence at Green Haven prison in Stormville, N.Y.
        Manigault is survived by his wife, Yvonne, and two sons, Darrin and Earl.
        ''Growing up, Kareem and I were very close,'' Manigault once said. ''We both had talent and we both ended up taking separate roads in life.''
      