
        Miles W. Kirkpatrick, who oversaw a study that was sharply critical of the Federal Trade Commission and was then given the job of rejuvenating the agency as its chairman, died on May 2 at his home in Strafford, Pa.. He was 79.
        The cause of death was cancer, according to his son, William H. Kirkpatrick 2d of New Freedom, Pa.
        Before coming to Washington in 1970, Mr. Kirkpatrick was a partner in the Philadelphia law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Brockius and had prospered as an antitrust specialist. He headed the American Bar Association's antitrust section in 1968-69.
        In 1969, at the request of President Richard M. Nixon, Mr. Kirkpatrick led a bar association commission that examined the F.T.C. The panel concluded that too many high-level employees were incompetent or were do-nothings, and that the commission wasted time pursuing ''trivial matters.''
        Impressed, Mr. Nixon appointed Caspar W. Weinberger to be F.T.C. chairman and told him to overhaul the agency. Seven months later, when the President asked Mr. Weinberger to become head of the Office of Management and Budget, he picked Mr. Kirkpatrick to lead the F.T.C.
        Under Mr. Kirkpatrick's guidance, the commission prodded manufacturers to back up their advertised claims of safety, performance and therapeutic value. It ordered Coca-Cola to stop contending that one of its drinks was high in vitamin C. And it told DuPont to warn in its advertisements that its antifreeze Zerex could damage automotive cooling systems.
        When Mr. Kirkpatrick resigned early in 1973 to return to his law practice, there was speculation that Mr. Nixon nudged him out. But William Kirkpatrick said that his father had stepped down on his own after concluding that he had accomplished all he could.
        A native of Easton, Pa., Miles Wells Kirkpatrick graduated from Princeton University and the University of Pennsylvania Law School. He enlisted in the Army during World War II and was discharged for medical reasons in 1944. .
        Surviving are his wife of 53 years, Anne; his son; two daughters, Nancy Kirkpatrick-Urban of Portland, Me., and Mary K. Gillett of Boothbay Harbor, Me., and eight grandchildren.
      