
        William Louther, a leading American modern dancer who also directed the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel and helped to establish modern dance in England, died on May 7 at St. George's Hospital in London. He was 56 and lived in London.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Sharon, said.
        Mr. Louther was a virtuoso dancer of rare physical and personal qualities, dancing with the tautness and tension of a coiled spring and the elegant softness of a cat. Writing in The New York Times in 1969, Clive Barnes described Mr. Louther as ''controlled and exquisite,'' ''among America's loveliest dancers, with a powerful physical presence and technique and a style'' that were all his own.
        Mr. Louther performed on Broadway and in many American modern dance companies in the late 1950's and 60's, most notably with Martha Graham, Alvin Ailey and Donald McKayle, and he became a charter member of the pioneering Graham-based London Contemporary Dance Theater in the late 1960's. He also performed in London in Mr. McKayle's popular stage show  ''Black New World.''
        As a star dancer with the London company and earlier with Ailey, Mr. Louther drew English audiences to modern dance, which now flourishes in England, early in its development as a native art form. Reached by telephone on Tuesday, John Percival, a leading English dance writer, described Mr. Louther's contributions as ''astonishing.''
        ''He took the lead, dancing in Graham's 'El Penitente,' Ailey's very popular 'Hermit Songs' and a revival of Talley Beatty's 'Road of the Phoebe Snow,' '' Mr. Percival said of Mr. Louther's performances with London Contemporary. ''He was quite prepared to go into all these works by their aspirant would-be choreographers. Thanks to the way he danced them, they held together as apprentice works.''
        Born in New York City, Mr. Louther trained at the High School of the Performing Arts and the Juilliard School and with Graham. He made his debut in 1958, performing with the company of May O'Donnell. He created roles in Mr. McKayle's classic ''District Storyville'' and in Graham's ''Circe'' and ''Archaic Hours.''
        Mr. Louther also created roles in works choreographed by Robert Cohan and Barry Moreland for the English troupe. He choreographed several dances for the company, including the hit ''Vesalii Icones,'' the product of a collaboration with the composer Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, and he taught at the company school into the 1990's.
        Mr. Louther directed the Batsheva Dance Company from 1972 to 1974, and the Welsh Dance Theater from 1974 to 1976. On his infrequent returns to the United States, he choreographed for the Alvin Ailey junior company, and in New York in 1990, he presented his own Dance and Theater Corporation, based in London and established to explore the connections between acting and dancing.
        Mr. Louther's last performance was in May 1997, when he danced with Galina Panova in Riga, Latvia, in his own choreography.
        In addition to his wife, of London, Mr. Louther is survived by his father, William, of Hempstead, N.Y.
      