
        Hal Laycoe, a National Hockey League defenseman, coach and general manager, died on Tuesday following surgery in Langley, British Columbia. He was 75.
        Laycoe was remembered chiefly for an encounter in 1955 with the Canadiens' star Maurice Richard that led to Richard's suspension from the playoffs and a riot in downtown Montreal.
        Laycoe was one of the few N.H.L. players to wear eyeglasses while on the ice, but he did not shy away from contact while playing for the Rangers, Canadiens and Boston Bruins in an 11-season career ending in 1956.
        While on defense for the Rangers in March 1947, Laycoe was involved in one of hockey's wildest brawls, taking on the Canadiens' Leo Lamoureux at Madison Square Garden in one of four major fights highlighting a melee that cleared both benches.
        Laycoe was traded to Montreal after that season, then joined Boston during the 1950-51 season.
        On March 13, 1955, Laycoe was again involved in a confrontation with Montreal, this time while playing for the Bruins at Boston Garden. Now his opponent was Richard, the future Hall of Famer. Laycoe delivered a hard check to Richard late in the third period and cut him with a high stick. Richard, bleeding profusely from his face, smashed Laycoe on the shoulder with his stick, and when a linesman, Cliff Thompson, tried to pull Richard away, he punched the official.
        The N.H.L. commissioner, Clarence Campbell, suspended Richard for the last three games of the regular season and all of the playoffs. Laycoe was given a five-minute penalty.
        When Campbell attended the Canadiens' game with the Detroit Red Wings at the Montreal Forum four days later, he was pelted with vegetables and struck by a fan. After someone set off a smoke bomb following the first period, the game was forfeited to the Red Wings.
        A riot then erupted on St. Catherine Street outside the Forum, with windows broken, stores looted and rocks thrown at police officers, capping one of the most calamitous nights in league history.
        When the Bruins played at Montreal in the Stanley Cup semifinals a few days after that, Laycoe faced the Canadien fans' wrath.
        A teammate, Eddie Sandford, recalled: ''I drew Laycoe as my taxi teammate. When we got to the Forum, the police were waiting for us, and they escorted us into the building and to the dressing room past a bunch of angry fans. Then every time Laycoe came on the ice, the crowd booed him.''
        Laycoe, a native of Sutherland, Saskatchewan, retired after the 1955-56 season, having played in 531 regular-season games with 25 goals and 77 assists. He accumulated 292 penalty minutes, not an unusual amount for a defenseman despite those well-remembered fights.
        He coached Portland of the Western Hockey League to seven titles in nine years, then was named head coach of the N.H.L.'s Los Angeles Kings in 1969. He was replaced after the team started with a 5-18-1 record and became director of player personnel.
        Laycoe was named coach of the newly established Vancouver Canucks in 1970. He spent two years behind the bench, missing the playoffs each time, then served as the team's general manager in 1973-74.
        He coached the Dutch national team in 1976-77 and then was a special-assignment scout for the Islanders, concentrating on the Vancouver area and Europe.
        Laycoe is survived by his wife, Marjorie; two sons, Bob, of Markham, Ontario, and Bryan, of Vancouver, Wash.; a daughter, Rhonda Sand, of Portland, Ore.; a sister, Edna Wells, of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      