
        Frank Ragano, a lawyer for both a Florida mob chieftain and James R. Hoffa of the teamsters' union and later co-author of a book about his experiences with organized crime, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 75.
        In the book, ''Mob Lawyer'' (Scribner's, 1994), which he wrote with Selwyn Raab, a reporter for The New York Times, Mr. Ragano said that in 1963 he took an order from Hoffa to his client, Santo Trafficante, the Mafia boss of Florida, and Carlos Marcello, the Mafia boss of New Orleans, asking that President John F. Kennedy be killed.
        On the day that Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas that year, Mr. Ragano said, he joined Trafficante in a toast. In 1987, when Trafficante was dying, Mr. Ragano said Trafficante had told him that the Mafia was involved in the assassination of the President and said in Italian, ''We shouldn't have killed Giovanni,'' meaning the President. ''We should have killed Bobby,'' he said in a reference to the President's brother, Robert F. Kennedy. Robert Kennedy was the Attorney General responsible for the conviction and imprisonment of Hoffa on fraud and jury-tampering charges.
        In the book, Mr. Ragano told of loans made from the teamsters' pension fund in the 1950's and 1960's so gangsters in Florida and Louisiana could legally invest in country clubs, hotels, hospitals, restaurants, trucking companies and other businesses. Mr. Ragano said he had witnessed the kickback of millions of dollars of those pension loans to Hoffa.
        Mr. Ragano was at Hoffa's side in a courtroom in Nashville in 1964 when a man burst in with an air pistol and started shooting. Hoffa was shot three times but managed to punch his assailant.
        Later, Hoffa told Mr. Ragano: ''Frank, remember this and maybe you'll live longer. Always run from a knife but charge a gun.''
        Frank Ragano was born on Jan. 25, 1923, in Tampa, the youngest of five children of immigrants from Sicily. His father, Giuseppe Ragano, was a grocer, and his mother, Josephina Matri Nostra Ragano, worked in a cigar factory.
        In World War II, Frank Ragano received a Bronze Star for bravery under fire in Europe. He also won the admiration of a lieutenant who told him he was bright and ought to go to law school. He did and eventually began representing Trafficante.
        Although he was successful in gaining acquittals for Trafficante on racketeering and gambling charges, Mr. Ragano was convicted of income tax evasion in 1990 and served 10 months in prison in 1993.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Young Ragano; three children from his first marriage, Frank Jr., Valerie Spies and William; two sons from his second marriage, Corbin and Christian, and a sister, Matilda Sabella. All are from Tampa.
      