
        Rabbi Moshe Sherer, who built a relatively small Orthodox Jewish organization, Agudath Israel of America, into a politically and religiously influential force among American Jewish groups, died Sunday afternoon in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Brooklyn.
        He died after an illness of several months, a spokesman for the group said.
        Rabbi Sherer had served since 1963 as president of Agudath Israel of America, an educational and social service organization that also represents hundreds of Orthodox religious schools, or yeshivas, in the United States and Canada.
        Through his work at Agudath Israel, Rabbi Sherer played a leading role in the rise of Orthodox Judaism's right wing, which has gained in influence and self-confidence since the 1960's, at the expense of Orthodoxy's more moderate wing.
        That shift seemed unlikely when Rabbi Sherer joined Agudath Israel as its executive vice president in 1941, when it was a small group with few employees. In an interview last year, he said some people warned him that Agudath Israel's rigorously traditional Orthodox approach had little future in America. But, he said, ''it's a growth stock today.''
        Sociologists say that Orthodoxy's strict traditionalists have benefited from charismatic leadership, a high birthrate and anxiety among many Orthodox Jews over signs of moral turmoil in society.
        Today, Agudath Israel, with headquarters at 84 William St., Manhattan, has branches throughout the country and a Washington office that lobbies the government on religious issues. It belongs to the Agudath Israel World Organization, of which Rabbi Sherer was appointed chairman in 1980. In Israel, it is associated with the strictly Orthodox United Torah Judaism Party, a member of the  governing coalition.
        Among Agudath Israel's earliest projects under Rabbi Sherer's leadership was sending food shipments to Jews in Nazi-dominated Eastern Europe and producing affidavits to help refugees immigrate to the United States. After World War II, the organization shipped food and religious articles to Jews in displaced persons camps and assisted those who wanted to immigrate.
        With Agudath Israel's constituency of religious schools, Rabbi Sherer served a world that prizes scholarship. Born in Brooklyn on June 8, 1921, he was educated at Torah Vodath, a Brooklyn yeshiva, and Ner Israel rabbinical college in Baltimore. He told associates that his main mentor was the late Rabbi Aharon Kotler, who founded a highly regarded yeshiva in Lakewood, N.J.
        Yet Rabbi Sherer was known as an organizer rather than an intellectual, with diplomatic and political skills that enabled him to forge coalitions within the decentralized and contentious world of Orthodox Judaism, and with other religious groups.
        ''He was able to take disparate groups, bring them together and get them to cooperate in the areas where they would agree,'' said Rabbi Nosson Scherman, general editor of Artscroll, a major publisher of Jewish texts.
        Rabbi Steven M. Dworken, executive vice president of the Rabbinical Council of America, which represents about 1,000 Orthodox rabbis, said Rabbi Sherer ''was responsible in many, many ways for placing Agudath Israel on the map.''
        As the most strictly observant of the Orthodox community became more visible and organized, politicians took note. In January 1994, Rabbi Sherer delivered the invocation at the first inauguration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York. Vice President Al Gore was the speaker at the organization's 76th annual dinner, held in New York the day Rabbi Sherer died.
        But the organization was also considered important earlier. When The New York Times described the growing influence of local religious groups in a 1974 article, it quoted Rabbi Sherer as saying about Agudath Israel, ''There is hardly a legislator from any Jewish neighborhood in the city who does not know how we stand on issues that concern us and how thorough we are about informing our constituents about positions the legislators take on these issues.''
        Still, he did not have the visibility of some of his counterparts at other Jewish organizations. ''He wasn't a headline-maker,'' said Samuel C. Heilman, professor of Jewish studies and sociology at the Graduate School of the City University of New York. Instead, Professor Heilman said, Rabbi Sherer worked quietly ''to keep the channels of communication open'' between Agudath Israel and other Jewish organizations.
        What helped is that Agudath Israel reached out to the entire Jewish community with its programs promoting Jewish identity and learning. Last September, for example, the organization sponsored a celebration for men who had completed a seven-year program of reading the entire Talmud, the Jewish civil and religious law, at the rate of a page a day. An estimated 70,000 people participated, filling Madison Square Garden and other arenas.
        Rabbi Sherer sometimes took positions at odds with non-Orthodox organizations. He supported aid by Federal and state governments to religious schools, a stand that placed his organization on the same side of that issue as the Roman Catholic Church but nettled some Jewish groups that supported a strict separation of church and state.
        Testifying before Congress on this issue in 1961, he said, ''Classical Judaism has, from the very inception of the Jewish people, placed religious education in sharp focus as the centrality of life itself.''
        More recently, he helped lead an effort to counter attempts by Reform and Conservative Jews to gain official recognition of non-Orthodox rabbis in Israel. Last November, he announced that Agudath Israel would spend $2 million for newspaper advertisements to promote the view that within Israel, conversions and other rites should remain under Orthodox control.
        Agudath Israel's spokesman, Rabbi Avi Shafran, said Rabbi Sherer's stand stemmed from the conviction that ''the only unifying force for the Jewish people is the Jewish religious heritage.''
        Rabbi Sherer is survived by his wife, the former Deborah Portman; two daughters, Rochel Langer of Monsey, N.Y., and Elky Goldschmidt of Brooklyn; a son, Rabbi Shimshon Sherer of Brooklyn, and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      