
        Robert C. Townsend, a chairman and president of Avis Rent-a-Car who went on to write the best-selling book ''Up the Organization: How to Stop the Corporation from Stifling People and Strangling Profits,'' died on Monday while vacationing on the island of Anguilla in the West Indies. He was 77 and lived in Los Angeles.
        He suffered a heart attack while on board a sailing vessel, a daughter, Jill Townsend, said. She said Mr. Townsend had triple bypass heart surgery about eight years ago and was stricken on Monday while the ketch was in Anguilla's harbor and he was telling his favorite fishing story to the captain.
        Mr. Townsend was the head of Avis from 1962 to 1965. His book ''Up the Organization,'' published in 1970, was on the New York Times nonfiction best-seller list for 28 weeks. For seven of those weeks it was No. 1 on the list.
        In a review for The New York Times Book Review, John Brooks, business writer for The New Yorker magazine, wrote: ''Robert Townsend, the man who as boss of Avis Rent-a-Car made it famous as the highly motivated Number Two'' to its rival Hertz, ''has written what purports to be a manual for business bosses in the form of a sort of encyclopedia, its 97 chapters consisting of entries, under alphabetically arranged headings, which range in length from a couple of lines to 9 or 10 pages each. It adds up to a stimulating, irritating, entertaining, wildly uneven book that ought to be of interest to business watchers as well as participants.''
        And so it was. The consumer advocate Ralph Nader said yesterday: ''Robert Townsend was a witty and incisive archenemy of corporate bureaucracy. A creative business iconoclast and human relations genius, he succeeded in business by challenging and replacing the ossified conventions of corporate management.''
        '' 'Up the Organization,' '' Mr. Nader added, ''is a classic in putting people first in business and winning the competitive race'' and ''a general handbook against bureaucracies of all kinds.''
        Under the heading ''Advertising,'' Mr. Townsend wrote crisply in the book: ''Fire the whole advertising department and your old agency. Then go get the best new agency you can.'' Under the rubric ''Mistresses,'' he said, ''A personnel man with his arm around an employee is like a treasurer with his hand in the till.''
        As for ''Directors, Board Of,'' he counseled: ''Be sure to serve cocktails and a heavy lunch before the meeting. At least one of the older directors will fall asleep (literally) at the meeting and the consequent embarrassment will make everyone eager to get the whole mess over as soon as possible.''
        That book was followed in 1984 by ''Further Up the Organization'' (Knopf), which was on the New York Times nonfiction best-seller list for nine weeks. It was a reissue of the 1970 book with 30 new chapters and more stress on what the author termed ''participative management,'' meaning corporate democracy.
        Mr. Townsend was born in Washington and grew up in Great Neck, N.Y. He graduated from Princeton in 1942 and was a Navy officer in World War II.
        Before joining Avis, he worked for the American Express Company for 14 years, during which he rose to be senior vice president for investment and international banking operations and helped create Hertz American Express International Ltd., a joint venture by the two companies.
        Over the years he was also an officer, a director or an adviser to Dun & Bradstreet, 20th Century Fox, Psychology Today and other enterprises. At the time of his death he was chairman of the executive committee of Leadership Directories Inc., which publishes institutional directories.
        In addition to his daughter Jill Townsend of Ojai, Calif., he is survived by his wife, the former Joan Tours; another daughter, Joan Townsend of Crestone, Colo.; two sons, Jeffrey, of College Place, Wash., and Robert Jr., of Reno, and two grandsons. Another daughter, Claire Townsend, who was an author and documentary film maker, died in 1995.
      