
        Don Petersen, a playwright and screenwriter who wrote ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' -- in which Al Pacino made his electrifying Broadway debut in 1969 -- died on April 25 at the Senior Lodge in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Stockbridge, Mass.
        The cause was lung and liver disease, said his wife, Valerie.
        Mr. Petersen's play had a brief run on Broadway, but it received four Tony nominations and won a Tony Award for Mr. Pacino as best dramatic actor in a supporting role. ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' starred Hal Holbrook as an English teacher trying to break through to the juvenile addicts in a New York drug rehabilitation center.
        Mr. Pacino portrayed an angry, violent loner named Bickham, who makes his entrance by kicking a door open. In his review in The New York Times, Clive Barnes wrote, ''Al Pacino as Bickham is magnificent -- a lumbering, drug-sodden psychotic with the mind of a bully and the soul of a poet.''
        For Mr. Pacino, ''Tiger'' was, in his words, ''a whirlwind'' experience. It led directly to his first film, ''Panic in Needle Park,'' and from there to the ''Godfather'' films and ''Serpico'' and a major career as a Hollywood and Broadway star.
        Mr. Petersen had only one more play produced, ''The Enemy Is Dead'' on Broadway in 1973. For many years, he worked as a screenwriter and also wrote ''The Man Who Tried to Leave Iowa,'' a series of story poems, some of which appeared in the Berkshire Anthology.
        He wrote many screenplays -- including one for ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' -- but only three were filmed: ''An Almost Perfect Affair,'' ''Deadly Hero'' and ''Target,'' which was directed by Arthur Penn and starred Gene Hackman and Matt Dillon. One of Mr. Petersen's unfulfilled projects with Mr. Penn was a screenplay about the inmates' rebellion at the Attica prison. ''He was a wonderful, chaotic person, a gifted and natural dramatist,'' Mr. Penn said last week.
        Mr. Petersen was born in Davenport, Iowa, into a musical family. His father was a cellist with the Tri-City Orchestra in Iowa and for many years his brother, Albert, played the bass with the El Paso Symphony in Texas. Bix Beiderbecke, who was also born in Davenport, was a cousin. At 15, Mr. Petersen played the violin in his father's orchestra.
        In addition to his wife and brother, he is survived by a daughter, Gille, of Hollywood, Fla.
        He served in the Navy at 17 at the end of World War II, and the Army during the Korean War. After his discharge, he studied at the University of New Mexico, where he acted and began writing plays. Moving to New York, he taught English at drug rehabilitation centers, first at Riverside Hospital and later on Rikers Island. ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' emerged from that experience.
        The play was given a reading by the New Dramatists Committee, won a National Endowment grant of $25,000 and then was performed at Brandeis University and the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge. In all three places, Mr. Pacino played a small role. The actor was fresh from his Off Broadway success in Israel Horovitz's ''Indian Wants the Bronx.'' When William Devane, who was playing Bickham, decided not to do the play on Broadway, the playwright's wife suggested, ''Get Al Pacino.''
        Moving up to the more important role, Mr. Pacino made a devastating impact, culminating in his powerful second-act monologue, in which the character tells the rehabilitation center's psychiatrist about the terrible disillusionment of his first meeting with his long-absent father.
        ''I spent my life thinkin' of him . . . lookin' for him,'' says Bickham. ''I dreamed for years of how him and me would get together some day.'' He laughs wildly before he goes on to describe his bruising encounter. At the end of the scene, the psychiatrist tells him to love himself first, and Bickham shouts: ''I don't know how! Nobody taught me!''
        Since then, the monologue written by Mr. Petersen has become a favorite audition piece for young actors hoping to become a future Al Pacino.
      