
        George D. Grundy Jr., the last of the world's first fliers, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. He was 99 and had been the sole surviving member of the Early Birds, an international organization of aviation pioneers.
        He buzzed his share of people and livestock on Staten Island, taught flying for a while, flew for a couple of silent movies and even did some wing walking at air shows. But for Mr. Grundy, aviation was little more than a youthful fling before settling down in his father's real estate business and becoming a fixture on the squash courts at the New York Athletic Club.
        Still, Mr. Grundy qualified as an aviation pioneer along with luminaries like Orville Wright, Glenn Curtiss, Louis Bleriot, Clyde Cessna, Gen. Hap Arnold, Sir Thomas Sopwith, Anthony Fokker, Igor Sikorsky, Allan Lockheed and Glenn Martin, simply because he made his first solo flight on Sept. 17, 1916, three months before the cutoff for membership in the Early Birds.
        The organization, which once included 598 men and women who had flown solo -- some in hot-air balloons -- before Dec. 17, 1916, was formed in Chicago in 1928. The date, the 13th anniversary of the Wright brothers'  first flight in 1903, was chosen as the cutoff because by the next anniversary hundreds of new fliers had been attracted to aviation by the entry of the United States into World War I.
        Some of them, indeed, were trained by Mr. Grundy, although to hear him tell it, it did not take much training to turn out a pilot in those days. As a teen-age instructor at his father's school, Mr. Grundy charged $1 an hour for a 10-hour course.
        Mr. Grundy, whose mother, Florence Reeves, was a member of a wealthy Long Island family, was born on June 21, 1898, in Southampton, N.Y., and grew up in Richmond Hill, Queens, where his father, who made and lost several fortunes, got his start in the real estate business.
        By the time he learned to fly, Mr.  Grundy, who had been taught to drive by his father's chauffeur, had graduated at 17 from the New York State Nautical School, a precursor of the Merchant Marine Academy.
        As a flying school pioneer, the senior Mr. Grundy was strictly a businessman, one who opened a popular dance studio at the old Grand Central Palace on Lexington Avenue, although he did not dance, and later created the Staten Island Aviation School, although he never flew.
        But with his father operating a flying school, Mr. Grundy could not  resist the challenge. He made his solo flight a few months after his 18th birthday in a wooden two-seat Benoist biplane and later flew a series of other planes, sometimes taking passengers aloft for a fee.
        Because of an inheritance from his grandmother, Mr. Grundy was spared the need to make a living, but he continued putting in an appearance at his father's office for years before retiring to Florida.
        At the nursing home and affiliated assisted living facility where he and his wife, Norma Olive, moved several years ago, Mr. Grundy had to be coaxed to talk about his old flying days. But once he was wound up, he would regale the nurses with tales about how he and a buddy tested an early autopilot system by leaving the cockpit and walking out on the wings, a feat, he acknowledged, that was not quite as daring as it seemed. If anything went awry, he pointed out, he and his friend could quickly scramble back to the controls and steady the craft.
        On his 99th birthday last year, Mr. Grundy, by then one of only two surviving members of the Early Birds, was presented with an Early Birds pin that had orbited the Earth aboard the space shuttle Atlantis a month earlier. The other Early Bird survivor, Walter J. Addems, died in November. Mr. Grundy, whose wife died last year, leaves no immediate survivors.
        To Mr. Grundy, for whom flying had been a daring, seat-of-the-pants activity with the wind in his face, modern aviation was simply not appealing. Flying in a modern airliner, he said, was like being locked in a closet.
      