
        Hisham Mubarak, a political analyst and one of Egypt's leading human-rights advocates, died on Monday night of a  heart attack. He was 35. Mr. Mubarak's death stunned Cairo's small but growing human-rights community, many of whose members he had trained and intellectually nourished.  Egyptian intellectuals regarded the passionate young lawyer as the best of the country's new generation of  civil libertarians and advocates for social justice.
        ''He was remarkable in that he was truly independent and fought for all whose rights were denied, no matter what their political perspective,'' said Hanny Megally, an Egyptian in New York who is the executive director of the Middle East Division of Human Rights Watch. ''Because he was always ready to help new activists in the field and stood aloof from the human-rights movement's infighting, he was seen as a role model by many younger Egyptians. He will be sorely missed.''
        A lawyer by training, Mr. Mubarak used his knowledge of Egypt's legal system to fight for those whose rights were abused by intolerant, violent religious groups or by Egypt's powerful state, defending intellectuals who were branded ''apostates'' by Islamic militants, as well as many of those same militants, against whom the Government has waged a fierce campaign.
        Most recently, Mr. Mubarak defended hundreds of Egyptians who were rounded up in the aftermath of the November massacre in Luxor, where six Islamic militants shot down more than 60 tourists.
        Born in 1963, Mr. Mubarak became politically active at Cairo University, where he received his law degree in 1985. He was a leftist activist in the university's student movement, campaigning for such causes as Palestinian rights.
        His conversion to the cause of human-rights came during his own arrest in August 1989, while taking part in a protest for higher wages for Egypt's iron and steel workers. Tortured and beaten in prison, he was left partially deaf in one ear.
        After his release, Mr. Mubarak devoted himself to using the law to defend human rights, training at Amnesty International in London, as well as with the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights, and the Ibn Khaldoun Center, two of Egypt's first independent civic groups.
        ''Most Westerners take civil society for granted,'' said Saad Edin Ibrahim, the center's founder and director, ''but in a highly politicized society like ours with such a strong state, the very concept of an independent group that advocates political rights for all is relatively new in Egypt. Hisham was a very important young force in that movement.''
        In 1993 Mr. Mubarak was awarded an international human rights prize given by Reebok, the sports shoe company. He used the prize money to help found the Center for Human Rights Legal Aid, which used Egyptian law to help those whose freedom or rights were denied by the state or by militant groups. The center has been known for the accuracy of its reports on torture in prisons and at police stations. Most recently it helped secure a revision of Egypt's law governing news organizations,  which severely limited criticism of Egypt's political leaders.
        ''Hisham carved out a badly needed niche in human rights work in Egypt,'' said Mr. Megally.
        Mr. Mubarak was working on behalf of a client just hours before his death. In an interview with this reporter, Mr. Mubarak explained the legal ramifications of a recent victory won by Sayed al-Qimany, a writer whose book was challenged as heretical by an Islamic activist group, the Islamic Research Academy. Public prosecutors had confiscated one of Mr. Qimany's books and had sought to bring charges against the writer. But Mr. Qimany was defended by Mr. Mubarak's center and other lawyers, and an Egyptian court rebuked the Islamic group and the prosecutor by dismissing the case.
        ''This is an important victory for freedom of expression in Egypt,'' Mr. Mubarak said in the interview  only hours before he fell ill and was taken to a Cairo hospital.
        He is survived by his wife, Lamis al-Nakash, the daughter of a leading Egyptian writer, Ragee al-Nakash,  and their 3-year-old son, Ziad.
      