
        Francis Goelet, a philanthropist who underwrote the commissions for dozens of new musical works, many opera productions and an important contemporary music recording project, died on Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 72.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, said Philip Goelet, his nephew.
        Mr. Goelet (pronounced Gih-LETT) was a reserved man who shunned the limelight. Behind the scenes, however, he took an active part in running several important cultural organizations. He joined the Metropolitan Opera board in 1955, and in the 1970's and 80's was the chairman of the Met's executive committee and its production committee.
        Mr. Goelet and his mother, Anne-Marie Guestier, made a major gift toward the construction of the Met's new home at Lincoln Center in 1966. The Met's grand staircase bears a plaque stating that it was given in memory of Mr. Goelet's father, Robert Walton Goelet.
        He also paid for or contributed toward the staging of 17 productions at the Met, most of them either contemporary or French works, his two main operatic interests. Among the productions he supported were three world premieres: Samuel Barber's ''Vanessa'' and ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' and John Corigliano's ''Ghosts of Versailles'' -- as well as Berg's ''Wozzeck,'' Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Menotti's ''Last Savage,'' Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande,'' Berlioz's ''Troyens'' and Poulenc's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites.'' Mr. Goelet joined the board of the New York Philharmonic-Symphony Society in 1959 and was its vice chairman as well as the chairman of its music policy committee at the time of his death. He supported the annual chamber concerts series  given by the orchestra's musicians at Merkin Concert Hall as well as a variety of its fund-raising efforts, including the Radiothons.
        His most significant contribution, though, was the commissioning of new music, starting with a series of works composed to celebrate the Philharmonic's 125th anniversary in 1967. Several of these have become 20th-century landmarks, among them Toru Takemitsu's ''November Steps,'' Elliott Carter's Concerto for Orchestra, Luciano Berio's ''Sinfonia,'' Roger Sessions's Symphony No. 8 and Aaron Copland's ''Inscape,'' for example.
        In 1977, Mr. Goelet commissioned a series of concertos for the Philharmonic's first-desk players. This series yielded the Corigliano Clarinet Concerto -- a work that has proved extremely popular and has been recorded several times -- as well as  William Schuman's ''Three Colloquies for French Horn,'' George Rochberg's Oboe Concerto and Jacob Druckman's ''Prism.''
        To celebrate the Philharmonic's 150th anniversary in 1992, Mr. Goelet paid for another 36 works. The series, which cost $700,000, was the largest group of commissions ever undertaken by an American orchestra. The composers ran the stylistic gamut, from atonalists to neo-Romantics to Minimalists. They included Ellen Zwilich, David Diamond, Daren Hagen, Tobias Picker, Richard Danielpour, Ned Rorem, Aaron Kernis, Oliver Knussen, Olivier Messiaen, Steve Reich, Alfred Schnittke and John Zorn. Another of Mr. Goelet's most significant projects was the creation of New World Records  in 1975. Also called the Anthology of American Music, New World was meant to celebrate the bicentennial of the United States by documenting the full spectrum of American music, not only works in a classical style but also American Indian music, cowboy songs, jazz and early rock on 100 disks.
        In addition to support from Mr. Goelet, the label had a Rockefeller Foundation grant for this purpose. When the Rockefeller grant ended after the label reached its original goal, Mr. Goelet supported it on his own. He remained the label's chairman until his death.
        Besides his support of classical music, Mr. Goelet founded the International Atlantic Salmon Foundation, a conservation organization, in 1969. The foundation later forged ties with similar groups in Britain, Iceland and other European countries. When it merged with the Atlantic Salmon Association, it was renamed the Atlantic Salmon Federation. Mr. Goelet was the organization's president, chairman and treasurer. Its headquarters, the Francis Goelet Building in St. Andrews, New Brunswick, Canada, is named for him.
        Mr. Goelet was the scion of a family that came to America in 1678 and has long been active in New York City's cultural life.
        Mr. Goelet was born in Bordeaux, France, and grew up in France and the United States. He attended the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass., and graduated from Harvard in 1947. He was chairman of the Goelet Corporation, a private company that oversaw his family's interests and investments in the mining, oil and gas businesses.
        Mr. Goelet was given several awards in honor of his philanthropy, including the T. B. (Happy) Fraser Award in 1983 for long-term contributions to Atlantic salmon conservation and a Presidential Medal of the Arts in 1988.
        He is survived by two brothers, Robert G. Goelet of Manhattan and John Goelet of Paris, and a sister, Beatrice Manice of Manhattan.
      