
        John White Hughes Bassett, a prominent figure in Canadian journalism, politics and sports for more than 40 years, died on Monday in Toronto. He was 82.
        Mr. Bassett was the chairman of Baton Broadcasting Inc., which controls CTV, Canada's largest private television network. At one time, he also owned large stakes in the Toronto hockey and football teams.
        Born in 1915 in Ottawa, Mr. Bassett was the son of John White Hughes Bassett, a poor Irish immigrant who became publisher of The Montreal Gazette. The younger Mr. Bassett's career began as a reporter with The Toronto Globe and Mail in 1938.
        After enlisting in the Canadian Army and serving overseas in World War II. In 1945, he made an unsuccessful run for a seat in the federal legislature.
        Mr. Bassett bought out his father's interests in the local newspaper, The Sherbrooke Daily Record, and remained a small-town publisher until he joined the staff of The Toronto Telegraph in 1948. He bought the paper in 1952 and ran it until 1971, when he abruptly closed it rather than face a strike.
        Even as a newspaper publisher, he had his hand in other endeavors. He joined with John David Eaton, a department-store heir, to form Baton Broadcasting, winning the first private television license in Toronto.
        Mr. Bassett supported a number of causes, including anti-racism and religious tolerance. He was a friend of Robert F. Kennedy and was a pallbearer at his funeral.
        In 1962, Mr. Bassett again ran for Parliament, this time from a Toronto district, but was again defeated.
        But he kept his ties to the Progressive Conservative Party, and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney appointed him chairman of the committee that oversees the nation's spy agency, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, which he served on until 1992.
        Mr. Bassett was also a major figure in Canadian sports. He owned 30 percent of the Toronto Maple Leafs in the 1950's and 60's. He also owned part of the Canadian Football League's Toronto Argonauts, selling it in 1974 after the league failed to expand internationally.
        He raised a sports-minded family: A son, John F., who died of cancer in 1986, was a sports entrepreneur, and a granddaughter, Carling Bassett, was ranked No. 7 in the world among women tennis players in the 1980's.
        Mr. Bassett had a heart attack in 1994 from which he never fully recovered.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Isabel Glenthorne Macdonald, who is Ontario's Minister of Culture and Citizenship; three sons, Douglas, David and Matthew, and two daughters, Avery and Sarah.
        His first marriage, to Moira Bradley, ended in divorce.
        Correction:  May 10, 1998, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about John White Hughes Bassett, a prominent figure in Canadian journalism, politics and sports who was publisher of a Toronto newspaper that closed in 1971, misstated the newspaper's name. It was The Toronto Telegram, not The Telegraph.
      