
        Dr. Herbert Chasis, a medical researcher at New York University College of Medicine whose early analysis of how the kidney works became required reading for generations of American medical students, died on May 11 at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        ''He was a pioneer in identifying the importance of high blood pressure,'' said Dr. Romulo E. Colindres, a professor in the division of nephrology and hypertension at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine. ''More than 60 years after he began his study, we are still trying to understand all of the problems. He had the good sense to study something that 50 million Americans suffer from today.''
        Dr. Chasis identified the basic mechanisms in the relationship of the kidney and high blood pressure, Dr. Colindres said, ''but even today, no one knows just how it comes about.''
        When Dr. Chasis began his study of kidneys in the 1930's, doctors treated high blood pressure, or hypertension, with a salt-free diet or a rice diet. Later came sophisticated drugs that drew upon his findings.
        He developed some of the first ways to measure how the kidney filters the salt, protein and water components of blood, thus regulating the composition of blood and urine.
        While previous work on kidneys was done on animals, Dr. Chasis did the first work on human kidneys together with colleagues Dr. Homer Smith and Dr. William Goldring, and that team provided the framework for understanding the physiology of the human kidney and its role in high blood pressure and nephritis, an inflammation of the kidneys, said Dr. Saul J. Farber, the Frederick H. King Professor and chairman of the Department of Medicine at Bellevue Hospital Center and Tisch Hospital.
        Dr. Chasis remained active at New York University until 1997, 64 years after he joined the faculty. At 91, in retirement, he was still writing and consulting with medical students, Dr. Farber said.
        During World War II, Dr. Chasis, whose flat feet kept him out of military service, was asked to find ways that sailors could stay alive on life rafts at sea at a time when warships were being torpedoed in the Atlantic. He theorized that pressing fish and drinking fish juice could supply life-sustaining moisture, and he tested the diet on a group of conscientious objectors put on a ship in the Hudson River for several days in an experiment, said Dr. Chasis's widow, Dr. Barbara Parker. They all fared well.
        In 1944, he was working for the War Department on the threat of mustard gas and phosgene poisoning when a chlorine spill in Brooklyn injured about 200 subway riders. He was asked by New York City to direct the medical response. At Cumberland Hospital in Brooklyn, he used methods that he had learned from his animal studies, using pressure-assisted breathing to inject oxygen into the victims' lungs. All of the riders recovered.
        From 1957 to 1972, Dr. Chasis's study of the role of the kidney in hypertension was supported by the National Heart Institute. From 1972 to 1977, those studies were supported by the United States Public Health Service.
        Dr. Chasis was president of the New York Heart Association from 1963 to 1965. He directed the development of its criteria for the diagnosis of heart disease, and this system remains the standard today.
        A native of Manhattan, he received his Bachelor of Arts at Syracuse University in 1926 and his Doctor of Medicine at New York University in 1930.
        He is survived by his wife; a sister, Sara Winik of Stamford, Conn.; two daughters, Dr. Joel Anne Chasis of Piedmont, Calif., and Sarah Chasis of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      