
        John William Berry Sr., a philanthropist who made a fortune taking the Yellow Pages global, died on Wednesday at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. He was 75 and lived in New Carlisle, Ohio.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Berry, a native of Dayton, was one of its greatest boosters. Just this year, he pledged $7.5 million for scholarships at the University of Dayton, the largest private commitment to the school ever. Scores of other institutions of all descriptions in and around the city also benefited from his philanthropy.
        The family's wealth sprang from an idea his father, Loren Murphy Berry, had in 1909 when he sold $700 of advertising to help an uncle in Marion, Ill., print a list of subscribers to his budding telephone company. The partnership took off and, under John Berry's tutelage, L. M. Berry & Company burgeoned into a $1-billion-a-year giant by the time Mr. Berry sold it to the BellSouth Corporation in 1986 for an undisclosed amount.
        Loren Berry brought the Yellow Pages to mid-America; John Berry took them to the world. Yellow, incidentally, was chosen, according to company lore, because Loren Berry deemed it the best background for black type.
        John Berry became the company's president in 1963 and three years later entered a joint venture with the International Telephone and Telegraph Company, ITT-World Directories. It quickly grew into the biggest Yellow Pages company outside the United States -- except that the Europeans call them Golden and Australians settled for Pink.
        Mr. Berry earned a degree in business administration from Dartmouth College in 1944. He began his career as a salesman in his father's company in 1940, rose to managing director in 1960, president in 1963 and chairman in 1973.
        After he sold the company, now a BellSouth subsidiary called the Berry Company, he founded Berry Investments Inc. with the proceeds. At his death, he was its chairman.
        In 1992, he gave $25 million to Dartmouth, the largest individual gift in its 229-year history. He and a family foundation also paid for most of the college's $35 million Berry Library, for which ground was broken this month, next to the existing Baker Library.
        Mr. Berry endowed the Loren Berry Professorship in Economics at Dartmouth in 1978 and the John W. Berry Sports Center in 1987.
        He sat on the executive board committee of the Ohio Republican Finance Committee and served as a trustee of the University of Dayton and Ohio State University.
        Mr. Berry is survived by his wife of 11 years, Marilynn St. John Berry; five sons, George W. of Boston, John Jr. of Dayton, David L. of San Francisco, Charles D. of Dayton, and Richard L. of Denver; a brother, Lee H. of New Albany, Ohio; two sisters, Martha Fraim of Palm Desert, Calif., and Elizabeth Gray of Oakwood, Ohio, and 18 grandchildren.
        Two earlier marriages ended in divorces.
      