
        Thomas J. Stanton Jr., a Jersey City banker who helped turn his hometown's waterfront from a moldering stretch of rotten piers and rusty rail yards into a sleek corporate district that came to be known as the Gold Coast, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        It was Mr. Stanton's devotion to Jersey City that led him in 1967 to build the corporate offices of First Jersey National Bank, a company he ran for more than 20 years, in a ramshackle part of town that could have been plucked from the set of ''On the Waterfront.''
        The decision, considered foolhardy in a summer of urban strife, eventually ignited commercial and residential building along the Hudson River from Hoboken to West New York.
        Mr. Stanton was born and reared  in Jersey City. In 1954, he began his long banking career there when he joined First Jersey as a business loan officer. Within six years, he was promoted to vice president and in 1967, at the age of 39, he became president and chief executive officer.
        Under his control, the bank mushroomed from a local lending agent into a statewide operation with assets of nearly $5 billion and a staff of more than 4,000.
        Mr. Stanton retired in 1990, two years after First Jersey was acquired by National Westminster Bank P.L.C., but he remained active in urban renewal projects like the Liberty Science Center and served as a trustee for numerous corporations and educational institutions.
        Of the myriad projects that Mr. Stanton undertook as president of one of the state's premier banks, the restoration of Jersey City's brownstone district was perhaps his favorite.
        In the early 1970's, when the middle class was fleeing the grubby neighborhood, Mr. Stanton stepped forward with the financial might of First Jersey and began to offer countless trailblazing mortgages that eventually helped turn the area into a redoubt of young, stroller-pushing professionals.
        Properties auctioned off by the Federal Government for as little as $7,500 in 1977 were selling for nearly $300,000 just 10 years later.
        Mr. Stanton is survived by his wife, Jean Emily Maloney; four sons, Thomas J. Stanton 3d of Verona, N.J., Charles A. Stanton of Jersey City, John M. Stanton of Washington, and Robert J. Stanton of Bloomfield, N.J.; three daughters, Louise Lynch Stanton of Trenton, Patricia B. Stanton of Portland, Ore., and Katherine A. Stanton-Paule of Bloomfield; two sisters, Katherine Kramer of Ocean Grove and Louise Longhurst of Morristown; two brothers, Reginald Stanton of Morristown and John M. Stanton of Carlisle, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      