
        Marvin Worth, a prolific writer and producer whose film credits ranged from black comedy (''Where's Poppa?'') to documentary biography (''Lenny'' and ''Malcolm X''), died on April 22 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, his publicist said.
        Mr. Worth won a Peabody Award in 1958 for television material he wrote for ''The Steve Allen Show.'' His other television writing credits included ''The Milton Berle Show,'' ''The Ann Sothern Show'' and ''Get Smart.''
        He was nominated for two Academy Awards, one as producer of ''Lenny'' (1974), the story of his friend, the comedian Lenny Bruce, the other as producer and co-writer of ''Malcolm X'' (1972), which was a runner-up for best documentary.
        Three decades later he joined Spike Lee in producing ''Malcolm X'' (1992), the feature film starring Denzel Washington. For that movie he and Mr. Lee shared an Image Award from the N.A.A.C.P.
        Mr. Worth was also the co-producer, with Aaron Russo, of ''The Rose'' (1979), in which Bette Midler portrayed a singer resembling Janis Joplin.
        He produced a film about Patty Hearst, the kidnapped heiress, in 1988 and had been working on ''The James Dean Story.''
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Worth started out as a teen-age promoter of jazz concerts, booking artists like Billie Holiday and Charlie Parker.
        He became Lenny Bruce's manager and got him his breakthrough booking on television, on the popular ''Arthur Godfrey Show.''
        Turning to writing in the 1950's, he did monologues for Bruce, Joey Bishop, Alan King and Buddy Hackett. He teamed with Arne Sultan to write the film comedies ''Boys' Night Out'' with James Garner (1962), ''Three on a Couch'' with Jerry Lewis (1966), and ''Promise Her Anything'' with Warren Beatty (1966).
        His first film production was the 1970 black comedy ''Where's Poppa?,'' which starred Ruth Gordon and George Segal. He first brought the Lenny Bruce story to Broadway in 1972 and then produced the film version, with Dustin Hoffman as Bruce, two years later. His production credits also include ''See No Evil, Hear No Evil,'' ''Fire Sale'' and ''Unfaithfully Yours.''
        Most recently he was associated with ''Norma Jean and Marilyn,'' a cable television production about Marilyn Monroe (1996); ''Gia,'' an HBO docudrama about the rise and fall of a prominent fashion model, and the remake of the movie thriller ''Diabolique,'' starring Isabella Adjani and Sharon Stone (1996).
        Mr. Worth is survived by his wife, Joan; a son, Jody; two daughters, Melissa Worth and Danielle Worth-Ochoa, and two grandchildren.
      