
        Kenneth Dale Wells, a founder and the spiritual father of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge, which fosters patriotism and understanding of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, died on May 10 at his retirement home in Edgewater, Fla. He was 89.
        The cause was complications from cancer and diabetes, his family said.
        In 1949 Mr. Wells, an economist by training, enlisted Edward F. Hutton, the founder of the investment concern E. F. Hutton, and Donald Belding, a power in national advertising, to form the foundation for responsible citizenship.
        Mr. Wells, who served as the original executive vice president, stepped up to the presidency in 1951 and filled that post until retiring in 1970.
        The nonpolitical, educational group, which is supported by donations, gives annual medals and cash awards to individuals and organizations it deems as having contributed to greater appreciation of free enterprise and the American way of life.
        The foundation has a large campus at Valley Forge, Pa., where it runs programs for teachers and students to imbue them with the American spirit, as the organization's founders perceived it. The foundation also honors men and women whose actions show that spirit.
        Mr. Wells had a reputation as an enthusiastic and popular speaker on themes of business and patriotism. He derided socialism and Communism, advocated United States military strength and backed the country's engagement in Indochina.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Wells made an unsuccessful run for Congress from Virginia and founded the humanitarian Family Foundation of America to promote family values. The family foundation also sent medicine, food and clothing to Central America, Vietnam and Appalachia.
        Kenneth Wells was born in Akron, Ohio, and graduated from Northwestern University in 1936. By then he had started a career as a financial reporter for the Bradstreet Company and as the co-owner of a financial reporting and land-title abstract concern in Akron.
        He taught economics and management relations at the University of Akron and the University of Southern California and served the Union Oil Company of California as a safety and training executive.
        Mr. Wells developed the concept of the Freedoms Foundation in the late 1940's while serving as director of operations of a joint committee run by the Association of National Advertisers and the American Association of Advertising Agencies. Its purpose was to improve public understanding of the American economic system and the free-market society. The effort convinced him of the need for the independent foundation.
        Mr. Wells is survived by his wife of 67 years, Ruth Van Allen Wells; a son, Kenneth 2d, of Douglassville, Pa.; a brother, Alton R., of Akron; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      