
        Simon David Strauss, a leading expert on metals markets and a former vice chairman and of Asarco Inc., died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86.
        During a long career associated with the metals industry, Mr. Strauss worked as a journalist, market analyst, wartime administrator, corporate executive, author and lecturer.
        Born in Lima, Peru, where his father was as a mining engineer, Mr. Strauss became a reporter for The Engineering and Mining Journal after his family returned to the United States. He later became an editor of  The Madison Eagle, a weekly newspaper in New Jersey.
        In 1935, Mr. Strauss joined the Standard Statistics Company in New York as a financial analyst covering the metal and coal industries. Shortly before World War II, he became an assistant to William L. Clayton, then deputy Federal loan administrator and head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation's wartime activities. Subsequently, he served as vice president of the Metals Reserves Company, a Government corporation that procured strategic metals and minerals.
        After the war, Mr. Strauss joined Asarco, a leading metals company,  working his way up from sales manager to become executive vice president in 1971 and vice chairman in 1977. He retired from that post in 1979 and from the company's board  in 1981, but remained a consultant for some years. In a book about various management types, ''The Gamesman,'' by Michael Maccoby, Mr. Strauss was described as the consummate craftsman in solving corporate problems. An expert on metals markets, Mr. Strauss was a frequent witness at Congressional committee hearings on proposed legislation affecting the mineral business. He was a consultant to the Defense Materials Procurement Agency during the Korean War and later to the Office of Defense Mobilization. He also served on advisory committees for the Interior and Commerce Departments.
        In 1986, Mr. Strauss wrote ''Trouble in the Third Kingdom,'' an exposition on the supply of metals and other minerals.
        In recent years, Mr. Strauss taught or lectured at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Pennsylvania State University, Polytechnic University of New York, the University of Arizona, the University of California at Berkeley, Columbia University and the Colorado School of Mines.
        He is survived by his wife, Janet McCloskey Robbins Strauss; a son, Peter, of New York; a daughter, Susan Strauss Orr, of California, and three grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      