
        Roy Evans, the longtime president of the International Table Tennis Federation, died on May 18 in Cardiff, Wales, where he was born. He was 88 and has been credited with coming up with the idea of what he winced at having called Ping-Pong Diplomacy, the 1971 initiative that paved the way for the establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and Communist China.
        For Mr. Evans, whose father was the first general secretary of the Welsh table tennis federation, the game that Americans, to his eternal dismay, know as Ping-Pong was a bit more than a mild diversion from his career as a steel company executive.
        A member of the Welsh team in the early 1930's, Mr. Evans, whose wife, Nancy, his only survivor, was once one of the top women in the game, served as general secretary of the Welsh federation from 1933 to 1939. He was general secretary of the international federation from 1951 to 1967, when he became only the second president of the 40-year-old international organization.
        During his 20 years in the post, Mr. Evans presided over a vast international expansion of table tennis, which now has national teams in 180 countries, and its elevation to an Olympic sport for the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul, South Korea.
        But nothing he did could quite match the impact of what he portrayed as a momentary inspiration during a meeting with the Chinese premier, Zhou En-lai, in March 1971.
        As Mr. Evans explained it, with China set to make its first appearance in a world table tennis championship in six years, he was asked to stop off in China on his way to the 1971 event in Nagoya, Japan.
        Upon his arrival in Beijing, he was summoned to a meeting with Premier Zhou, whose ostensible purpose, at least, was to ask him to bar South Vietnam from the championship, something Mr. Evans obviously could not do.
        But when Mr. Zhou reminded him, as Mr. Evans wrote in his 1997 memoir, ''Colored Pins on a Map,'' that China had been absent from international table tennis competition since 1965 and was eager to ''rehabilitate itself'' with the world table tennis community, Mr. Evans had a brainstorm: He suggested that China invite several Western teams to visit China on their way home from the championships in Japan. What happened next happened with such speed and such consequences it is hard to imagine that Mr. Evans had not somehow been maneuvered by the Chinese into making a proposal they could not have made themselves without losing face after their long and bitter estrangement from the United States.
        A former senior American official who could have shed some light on the matter was not available last night to discuss what previous secret, and perhaps indirect, diplomatic contacts between the United States and China may have preceded Mr. Evans's meeting with Mr. Zhou. But in his book, Mr. Evans, himself, said he had been astounded when he was told during the championships in Nagoya that the American table tennis team had been invited to visit China, along with four other teams, right after the championships.
        Whether the Chinese initiative was a spontaneous response to Mr. Evans's suggestion or the result of a careful plan to end its long isolation, the resulting visit by 15 United States players and three American reporters, the first group of Americans to visit China in almost 25 years, created an international sensation.
        As Mr. Zhou put it when he received the American players at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on April 14, ''We have opened a new page in the relations between the Chinese and American people.''
        Indeed. Within two months, President Richard M. Nixon's National Security Adviser, Henry A. Kissinger, had made his famous secret visit to China to set up the President's even more famous visit to China the next year, 1972, when a delegation of Chinese table tennis players toured the United States.
        Whether Mr. Evans's role was central to the diplomatic thaw or merely a footnote, it was perhaps not a coincidence that 1972 was the year in which he received the Order of the British Empire.
        The effects of Mr. Evans's diplomatic venture were more than manifest to members of the American team, who were warmly received in China, even in a series of exhibition matches with Chinese players.
        For one thing, the crack Chinese players who had won the world championship were discreetly kept out of the country during the tour by the comparatively inexperienced Americans, who were, even so, hopelessly outclassed by the second-line Chinese players they faced, or would have been if the Chinese had not tried so hard to be such gracious hosts.
        As Judy Hoarfrost, a member of the 1971 American team, recalled last night, she played four matches against an obviously superior Chinese player, and won three of them.
      