
        Simon J. Liebowitz, a former New York State Supreme Court justice and State Senator from Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and a resident of Palm Beach and Brooklyn.
        From 1960 to 1969, Mr. Liebowitz, a Democrat endorsed by the Citizens Union, represented Brooklyn's 10th Senate District, which covered parts of East New York, Bushwick and Canarsie. Among the important legislation he helped to write were a seat-belt requirement for motor vehicles and health warnings on tobacco products enacted before Congress ordered the warnings printed on cigarette packs nationwide.
        After his terms in the State Senate, he was briefly a Civil Court judge until his election to State Supreme Court in 1969. He stepped down at the end of 1975 after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 70 but continued to serve as a hearing officer and arbitrator in disputes.
        Mr. Liebowitz graduated from City College and received his law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1926. He worked at various law firms until going into semiretirement at age 90.
        Among his early clients were labor unions and their welfare funds. In the 1940's, he was a counsel for the American Federation of Labor, representing it and A.F.L. unions in court.
        In the State Senate, he took on important assignments as a member of the Insurance Committee and chairman of the Joint Committee on Motor Vehicles, Traffic and Highway Safety.
        He was the Senate sponsor of the 1962 bill that empowered life insurance companies to invest all the pension funds they were holding in common stock. That put them on equal footing with the trust divisions of commercial banks, which, having had that authority all along, handled the bulk of the pension business and fought the bill until the day that Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller signed it.
        In January 1964, the United States Surgeon General put out the famous report that linked smoking to cancer and other diseases. While Congress debated national legislation, New York did not wait and in the same year passed a law.
        Co-sponsored by Mr. Liebowitz, it ordered cigarette packs to be labeled: ''Warning: Excessive use is dangerous to health.'' New York was the first state to mandate such a requirement.
        Mr. Liebowitz was a principal author of bills that ordered seat belts to be installed in motor vehicles and authorized the Motor Vehicles Commissioner to set standards for car locks.
        Another measure he helped write forbade people or firms publishing advice on stocks to have a financial stake in any stock on which they were advising investors.
        After returning to private practice, Justice Liebowitz was often asked to preside at official hearings on a variety of matters. Thus, the State Commission on Judicial Conduct asked him in 1983 to hear the case of Alan I. Friess, a former Criminal Court judge who had quit the bench amid accusations of misconduct.
        Justice Liebowitz is survived by his wife of 45 years, Elsie Chasanoff Liebowitz; a daughter, Gloria Herman of Brooklyn; a son, Burt, of Bethesda, Md.; eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      