
        Richard Allen Lester, an economist who specialized in wage and labor issues, and a dean of the faculty, emeritus, at Princeton University, died on Tuesday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 89.
        Professor Lester is known for his basic research in wage determination and minimum wages in the 1940's. One early theory, called the ''range theory of wages,'' offered an alternative to the prevailing view that workers in similar jobs were paid the same wages. Professor Lester said that one implication of his theory was that because wages were indeterminate an increase in the minimum wage would not necessarily result in reduced employment.
        Professor Lester also studied the labor movement, unemployment and employment discrimination. His textbooks include the ''Economics of Labor'' (1941) and ''Labor and Industrial Relations'' (1951).
        During World War II, Professor Lester served on the National War Labor Board and the War Manpower Commission and in the Office of the Secretary of War. His role as Government adviser and mediator continued throughout his career. He was an arbitrator, under the Railway Labor Act, of labor disputes involving the locomotive engineers' union in 1954 and 1961.
        Professor Lester advised the Kennedy Administration on employment, wage and labor issues, and served on several Federal and state advisory boards.
        Professor Lester earned a bachelor's degree at Yale University in 1929 and his Ph.D. in economics in 1936 at Princeton University. He taught at the University of Washington and Duke University before returning to Princeton in 1945. Starting in 1948, he served several terms as chairman of the economics department; from 1966 to 1968, he was an associate dean and the director of the graduate program at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton.
        In 1969, he became dean of the faculty, where he worked to attract women and minority candidates to the faculty. He retired in 1974, when he was named dean emeritus.
        Professor Lester is survived by his wife, Doris N., of Hightstown; two daughters, Margaret L. Wing of Mendham, N.J. and Harriet L. Tarver of Atlanta; a son, Robert A., of Charlottesville, Va.; a brother, John W., of Hamburg, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      