
        Lawrence Treat, a prolific author of mystery novels and short stories and a founder of the Mystery Writers of America, died on Jan. 7 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 94 and lived on Martha's Vineyard.
        During a career that spanned some 70 years, Mr. Treat wrote several hundred short stories for mystery magazines and other publications. Among his 17 novels are ''A as in Alibi,'' ''H as in Hangman,'' ''V as in Victim,'' ''Venus Unarmed,'' ''Weep for a Wanton'' and ''Run Far Run Fast.'' A collection of his work, ''P as in Police,'' appeared in 1970 and included 16 short stories in one of his favorite modes, the police procedural, of which he was an acknowledged master. Many of his police stories appeared in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.
        Mr. Treat began his professional life as a lawyer, having attended Dartmouth College and the Columbia University School of Law. When his law firm broke up in 1928, shortly after he began work there, he traveled to Paris. A friend living in Brittany provided free room and board, and Mr. Treat decided to settle down and teach himself to write. His knowledge of law led him to try his hand at crime writing. He sold his very first novel and returned to the United States to write full time.
        He was also the originator of what he called crime mystery picture puzzle books, including ''Bringing Sherlock Home,'' ''You're the Detective'' and ''Crime and Puzzlement 1, 2 and 3.'' The picture puzzles challenge readers to solve mysteries on their own by gleaning clues from illustrations accompanied by brief explanations. Some of them appeared in The New York Times Book Review in the 1980's. Among the books he edited are ''Murder in Mind,'' ''A Special Kind of Crime'' and ''Mystery Writers' Handbook.''
        Mr. Treat also shared his expertise with students. As a guest instructor, he taught mystery writing at Columbia University, New York University, Adelphi College, Ditmas High School in Brooklyn and at public schools in Westchester County in New York and on Martha's Vineyard.
        One of the founders of the Mystery Writers of America, Mr. Treat served at various times as the organization's president, executive vice president, treasurer and board member. He received the Mystery Writers' top award, the Edgar, for ''H as in Homicide'' in 1965 and for the ''Mystery Writers' Handbook'' in 1976. A special Edgar was awarded him for an episode of the Alfred Hitchcock television program, ''Wake Me When I'm Dead,'' in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife, Rose.
      