
        David G. Walsh, a journeyman stock promoter whose gold mining company, Bre-X Minerals, was at the center of a fraud that wiped out the holdings of investors in Canada and the United States, died on Thursday at Doctors' Hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas.
        He was 52 and had been in a coma since Sunday, when he suffered a brain aneurysm.
        Under Mr. Walsh, Bre-X shares grew from a highly speculative penny stock to one of Canada's most sought-after investments, worth more than $200 a share at its peak before collapsing and eventually becoming a notorious symbol of Canadian stock fraud.
        The company never produced a commercial ounce of gold; its only real asset was its claim to a piece of dense jungle in Indonesia that supposedly held as many as 200 million ounces of gold, which would have made it the richest strike in history.
        Because of the artful way Mr. Walsh promoted the stock, investors clamored for it, and much bigger mining companies competed aggressively to become Bre-X's partner in the site, known as Busang.
        The end came just weeks after an American company, Freeport McMoran Copper and Gold Inc., became Bre-X's partner early last year. Independent drilling by Freeport found that there was little or no gold at Busang.
        As Bre-X began to implode, Mr. Walsh seemed as stunned as any of the investors who had seen their Bre-X stock suddenly become worthless. ''We'll be exonerated,'' he told reporters who waited for him on the sidewalk outside Bre-X headquarters in Calgary, Alberta, the day the announcement was made. ''And the property will stand as we have indicated.''
        Later investigations found that Bre-X's core samples had been ''salted,'' a process in which gold dust is sprinkled into drilled sections of earth to falsely indicate rich deposits.
        Investors in the United States and Canada filed class action suits against Mr. Walsh and other company officials. Bre-X itself declared bankruptcy last November, and Mr. Walsh resigned as chairman soon after. He and his wife, Jeannette, who had helped him start Bre-X in the basement of their Calgary home in late 1987, had sold significant amounts of Bre-X stock at high prices months before the company collapsed.
        Mr. Walsh always maintained that  he had no prior knowledge of the fraud. ''It's been difficult because he always viewed himself as a victim along with everyone else,'' said Alan J. Lenczner, Mr. Walsh's lawyer in Toronto. ''He claimed he had nothing to do with the tampering nor could he have known about it.''
        David G. Walsh was born in the English-speaking section of Montreal in 1945. The son of a stockbroker, he entered the investment industry as a young man. He was named vice president of Midland-Doherty, a Montreal brokerage firm, when he was 29, the youngest person in the firm's history to hold that position. He had his first brush with controversy in 1975 when he arranged to sell stock shares that a friend of his had stolen. Though he was never implicated in the theft, Mr. Walsh was pressed to leave the firm.
        After holding a number of positions with other firms, he moved in 1982 to Calgary, where he first became involved in mining. He started his own company, Bresea Resources Ltd., in 1984, taking the name from the names of his sons, Brett and Sean. After struggling for several years, Mr. Walsh and his wife were heavily in debt and declared personal bankruptcy.
        But always on the lookout for a new deal, Mr. Walsh turned to an old friend, John B. Felderhof, a Canadian geologist he had met in connection with an Australian mining project a decade earlier. Mr. Felderhof was working in Indonesia and he interested Mr. Walsh in a potential mining site known as Busang.
        The project began to look up after Bre-X hired Michael de Guzman, a Filipino prospector, who began to file increasingly optimistic reports about the amount of gold at the site. Pushed along by Mr. Walsh's easy-going, everyman style, Bre-X stock soared, making many investors millionaires. In Canadian financial circles, Mr. Walsh was transformed from loser to legend.
        Then last year, just weeks before the first reports that there was little or no gold at Busang, Mr. de Guzman disappeared. He is believed to have jumped to his death from a helicopter flying over the Indonesian jungle.
        As the first damaging reports about Busang came out, Mr. Walsh insisted that there had been no fraud and that the discrepancy in estimates was caused by differences in testing methods. But as the evidence increased that the samples had been tampered with, he contended that he had been taken in by the fraud. He withdrew into the Bre-X headquarters in Calgary. Later he and Mrs. Walsh moved to the home they had bought in Nassau.
        ''We lived through the highs and lows of Bre-X together,'' Mr. Felderhof told The Globe and Mail of Toronto Thursday. Mr. Felderhof now lives on an estate in the Cayman Islands. ''Although we did not always agree on every decision, I always believed that David was trying to do the utmost for the shareholders, '' he said.
        Mr. Walsh and his wife, along with company advisers and brokerage firms, have been named in several suits filed by investors in Canada and the United States. Lawyers involved said the lawsuits would continue.
        Mr. Walsh is survived by his wife, Jeannette, and their sons, Brett and Sean, all of Nassau. His body has been donated to science. A memorial service will be held in Montreal next week.
      