
        Sam Yorty, the blunt-talking, self-promoting Mayor of Los Angeles who took credit for building up the city yet denied any responsibility for the Watts riots in 1965, died today. He was 88.
        Mr. Yorty had suffered a stroke on May 24, and two days ago asked to be released from a hospital. He died at his hilltop home in Studio City section of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Yorty also served two terms in Congress, but became a national figure because of his tenure in Los Angeles, from 1961 to 1973, and for his unabashed, contrary ways.
        The self-described Maverick Mayor began his career as a liberal Democrat and ended it as a conservative Republican. He was elected despite alienating his party by supporting Richard M. Nixon, not John F. Kennedy, for President in 1960. He was called Travelin' Sam for seemingly spending as much time away from Los Angeles as within the city.
        ''Sam did what was unexpected,'' said Joy Picus, a longtime civic leader. ''Sam did what would get him attention.''
        He presided over a city that was moving from Midwestern outpost to gateway to the Pacific Rim. In the 1960 census, the year before Mr. Yorty first took office, Los Angeles  still had the most residents who were Protestant, white and native-born of the United States' biggest cities. Indeed, said Kevin Starr, the State Librarian, Mr. Yorty might have been better suited to be the Mayor of Los Angeles in the 40's or the early 50's.
        ''L.A. had become a new city,'' Mr. Starr said. ''In movie terms, he began his career in 'Chinatown,' came to political strength during 'L.A. Confidential,' and he was Mayor during 'Dragnet.' ''
        A fitting description for a man who was one of the first local politicians to recognize the power of the camera. Mr. Yorty appeared on television often, and at one point, was well  known for playing banjo on ''The Tonight Show.''
        In 1967, he was host of a local television program, ''The Sam Yorty Show,'' and when it was canceled, he complained, ''They replaced my show with 'Hee Haw'! ''
        After being defeated for re-election and leaving office in 1973, he had to settle for being heard, not seen, as a host for a radio call-in show.
        ''Sam Yorty's mayoralty,'' Mike Davis, a historian and author of ''City of Quartz'' (Verso, 1990), ''was the transition from a WASP majority to the multicultural Los Angeles of Tom Bradley. Yorty's death is symbolic of the passing of that whole period of L.A. history when Midwesterners dominated the city and its culture.''
        By the 1920's, so many Iowans had settled in Los Angeles that some people called it ''Iowa by the sea.''
        Mr. Yorty had also come from the Midwest.
        Samuel William Yorty was born on Oct. 1, 1909, in Lincoln, Neb., to Johanna, an Irish immigrant, and Frank Yorty, who was of Dutch descent. Mr. Yorty grew up poor in Nebraska's capital, where his father, a onetime farmer, ran a restaurant.
        Mr. Yorty's political heroes as a boy were William Jennings Bryan and Woodrow Wilson. After graduating from high school, Mr. Yorty moved to Los Angeles and attended Southwestern University and the University of California, eventually receiving a law degree.
        At age 27, he entered politics, winning a seat in the state Assembly in 1936. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Corps and became a captain in the intelligence unit.
        After losing a Los Angeles mayoral election at the end of the war, he was elected again to the Assembly in 1948, and then won a seat in Congress, in 1950. Through the years, his politics became more conservative.
        According to the book ''Los Angeles A to Z'' by Leonard Pitt and Dale Pitt (University of California Press, 1997) ''initially a left-winger, he moved steadily to the right and became a staunch supporter of the House Un-American Activities Committee.''
        In 1960, the year before he was elected mayor, Mr. Yorty shocked his fellow Democrats by not endorsing Kennedy.
        ''I think he was a great mayor,'' said Harriet Weider, a former aide. ''But he was a contrarian and I think some of his problems he brought on himself by his feisty independence.''
        Mr. Yorty reduced city property taxes and backed the building of freeways, the Los Angeles Zoo, the convention center and other projects. Yet his mayoralty was badly scarred by the 1965 Watts riots, which left 34 people dead and hundreds injured. Federal officials said later Mr. Yorty's attitude toward the inner city and his failure to heed the warning signs contributed to the riots. In turn, Mr. Yorty criticized the Federal Government's anti-poverty programs for promoting false hopes for the poor.
        By the 1969 elections, Mr. Yorty was alienated from the black population that had helped elect him, and he used race and accusations of left-wing influences to beat back the challenge of a black city councilman, Tom Bradley.
        Mr. Yorty ran unsuccessfully for the 1972 Democratic nomination for President, and was defeated for mayor the next year by Mr. Bradley. This time, Mr. Yorty ran as a Republican.
        All told, he ran for office 20 times, including bids for governor and the United States Senate, and yet another bid for mayor, in 1981.
        ''I think you have to view Sam Yorty as a metaphor, more than an individual,'' said Gerald Horne, a historian and author of ''Fire This Time,'' (University Press of Virginia, 1995) a book about the Watts riots.  ''He was not alone in his shift to the right. This was part of a massive shift that was taking place in U.S. politics.''
        Even after Mr. Yorty's political fortunes dropped, he remained notoriously quotable. In 1981, he startled a Chamber of Commerce luncheon by saying that ''the black people are really racist.''
        ''They vote for black people because they are black,'' he said.
        His success or failure in shaping Los Angeles remains a debate for historians, but it is widely agreed  that his two loves were running for office and having an audience.
        ''I would rather give a speech than eat,'' he is quoted as saying in ''Maverick Mayor'' (Doubleday & Company, 1966), a biography by Ed Ainsworth.
        Mr. Yorty, whose first two wives died, is survived by his third wife, Valerie King Yorty, and two granddaughters.
      