
        Shirley Povich's sports column ran in The Washington Post on Friday, which was not unusual, since his columns have appeared in The Washington Post for 74 years, or since he began working there in 1924, at age 19. Mr. Povich's column Friday, headlined ''Recent Baseball Feats Require Footnotes,'' was literary yet earthy, opinionated yet generous, topical yet filled with historical perspective, and a pleasure to read, none of which was unusual.
        What was different was that it was his last. Shirley Povich died of a heart attack Thursday night at his home in Washington. He was 92.
        ''While he retired 'officially' in 1974,'' an editor's note that preceded Friday's article said, ''He continued to write columns for the newspaper.'' There were more than 15,000 of them over seven decades.
        In the final column, which he wrote on Wednesday, Mr. Povich questioned, among other things, whether Mark McGwire, the hulking, slugging first baseman for the St. Louis Cardinals who has hit 414 career home runs, is a greater home run hitter than Babe Ruth. That seems a growing sentiment, but it was not a popular one with Mr. Povich, who covered Ruth and his exploits. ''To judge McGwire a better home run hitter than Ruth at a moment when McGwire is exactly 300 home runs short of the Babe's career output is, well, a stretch,'' he wrote.
        And he underscored the opinion about Ruth with a first-hand anecdote that almost no one but Mr. Povich could have provided: ''Walter Johnson once said when asked to compare the Babe's swats with those hammer blows of Lou Gehrig and Jimmie Foxx and Hank Greenberg: 'Lemme say this, those balls Ruth hit got smaller quicker than anybody else's.' ''
        Mr. Povich, 5 feet 8 inches, trim and always neatly attired, was widely admired by generations and was considered one of the country's best sports columnists. ''If it hadn't been for his friend Red Smith,'' Jerome Holtzman, The Chicago Tribune sports columnist said, ''Shirley would have been regarded as the best sports columnist in the country.''
        In his unobtrusive manner, and with a quiet New England way of speaking that this Maine native never lost, Mr. Povich was also considered one of the finest gentlemen in the sometimes inelegant world of sports. He was known, read and enjoyed by a wide range of people -- including Presidents, starting with Calvin Coolidge.
        In the 1930's, The Washington Post was the fourth paper in circulation in a five-paper town. Katherine Graham, whose father, Eugene Meyer, bought the Post in 1933, became the publisher herself years later. She once claimed that Mr. Povich, then writing his ''This Morning'' column six days a week, ''was responsible for one-third of our readership.''
        Mr. Povich, like many fine newspaper columnists, was on the side of the underdog. He regularly took the owner of the Washington Redskins, George Preston Marshall, to task for not hiring a black player.
        On one occasion Mr. Povich wrote: ''Jim Brown, born ineligible to play for the Redskins, integrated their end zone three times yesterday.''
        Marshall finally did hire a black player, Bobby Mitchell, in 1962.
        Mr. Povich and his wife, the former Ethyl Friedman, whom he met on a blind date in 1930, were married for the last 66 years. He is survived by his wife and three children: David, a lawyer in Washington; Maury, the television talk show host, and the youngest, Lynn, a managing editor with MSNBC. ''It was a very male family, as you might expect, but being the only girl, Dad really tried not to leave me out of things,'' Lynn Povich said.
        Mr. Povich won numerous prizes for his writing, from the Grantland Rice Award to election to the writers' wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame. He was cited for outstanding service as a World War II war correspondent with the Marines in the Pacific in 1945.
        Surely, the strangest acknowledgment he received was when he found himself listed in the initial volume of ''Who's Who in American Women,'' in 1958. The editors had lifted a paragraph on him from ''Who's Who in America,'' although it plainly said he was married to Ethyl.
        ''The next year,'' he recalled with amusement, ''they dropped me, like they used to do in the New York Social Register if you had married a stripper -- the snobs.''
        The name Shirley for a boy was not uncommon in Maine. He was born on July 15, 1905, in Bar Harbor to parents who were Orthodox Jewish immigrants from Lithuania. His father later owned a furniture store in Bar Harbor. Mr. Povich was the eighth of 10 children and was named for a grandmother, Sarah, or ''Shirley,'' as it was loosely translated into Yiddish.
        As a youth, he got a summer job caddying at a country club that catered to wealthy vacationers who owned mansions in Bar Harbor. Edward B. McLean, then the Post's publisher, suggested that Mr. Povich, 17, come to Washington where there would be two jobs for him, one as caddie on McLean's personal golf course at $20 a week and the other as a copy boy at the paper at $12 a week.
        Mr. Povich, who had never been on a train, had never been out of Maine and had never owned a pair of long pants, accepted. His first task was to carry the bag of McLean's friend, Warren G. Harding, President of the United States.
        At the Post, Mr. Povich rose first to police reporter and then to a position in the sports department, all while studying law at Georgetown University. His first byline came on Aug. 5, 1924, above a report on the Washington Senators. In 1926, at age 21, he was named sports editor, the youngest sports editor of a metropolitan daily in the nation.
        And he went on from there, covering events as diverse as the famed Jack Dempsey-Gene Tunney ''long count'' heavyweight championship fight in 1927 to the Olympics to Ruth's ''called shot'' in the 1932 World Series. (''He didn't really call the shot,'' Mr. Povich said of Ruth. ''He was pointing at the pitcher, Charley Root, for quick-pitching him, and he was calling him names.'')
        At 91, he attended a Washington Bullets National Basketball Association game. He was never enamored with basketball, and wrote, ''They don't shoot baskets anymore, they stuff them, like taxidermists.''
        Mr. Povich said the following to Holtzman, in the book ''No Cheering in the Press Box'':
        ''Despite the fact that I was a precocious young sports editor, I would describe myself as a late bloomer. Maturity came late to me. I was about 30 when I discovered I wasn't a clear thinker. I was a hero worshiper, a romanticist, highly sentimental and entirely impractical. I was constantly overwriting, often attempting to make the event and the game more exciting and dramatic than it was.''
        In his 1969 autobiography, ''All These Mornings,'' Mr. Povich described how he suffered two fractured vertebrae on Okinawa in World War II. He was taken off a ship that was headed for combat and was transferred, despite his reluctance, to a hospital in Pearl Harbor. Many who went ahead on the ship, including the legendary war correspondent Ernie Pyle, were killed.
        ''I was leading a charmed life,'' Mr. Povich wrote, ''for reasons unknown to anyone before or since.''
        Correction:  June 8, 1998, Monday  An obituary yesterday about Shirley Povich, the Washington Post sports columnist for 74 years, misspelled the given name of the former Post publisher and chairwoman who attributed one-third of the paper's circulation to him. She is Katharine Graham, not Katherine.
      