
        Lorne Welch, a crack British glider pilot and yachtsman who played parts in two of the most storied escapes by Allied prisoners during World War II, died on May 15 at his home in Farnham, England. He was 81.
        A prisoner of war with uncommon flair, Mr. Welch was being held at the Stalagluft III prison camp in Silesia when he rigged the tunnel ventilation system that was used in one of the largest mass breakouts by Allied prisoners during the war, an incident that became the subject of the 1963 movie ''The Great Escape.'' Later, as a prisoner at Colditz, the 700-room Saxon castle the Nazis used to hold incorrigible escape artists, he helped design a two-man glider with a 32-foot wingspan that was to be launched from one of the castle's towers. It was never tested because the prisoners were liberated by American troops before an attempt could be made.
        After the war, Mr. Welch became  the first man to glide twice across the English Channel and to fly with the British team in four world gliding championships.
        As the son of a general in the British Army, Mr. Welch seems to have gravitated to aviation in part as an act of rebellion against the father who had named him Patrick Palles Lorne Ephinstone Welch.
        After secondary schooling at Stowe, Mr. Welch, who had an instinct for solving technical problems but no formal training as an engineer, worked with both marine and aircraft engines, designed and built a sailing dinghy and flew gilders before joining the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve just in time to qualify as a flight instructor at the outbreak of war in 1939.
        He might have remained safely on training duty if, in May 1942, the British had not announced plans to launch 1,000 bomber raids on Nazi Germany, a strategy that required the services of virtually every military plane and pilot.
        Mr. Welch first fell into German hands in 1942, when his plane crash-landed in a field in the Netherlands during his fourth mission. Rather than flee, Mr. Welch chose to remain with his injured bombardier and allowed himself to be taken prisoner. After the wounded flier had been taken to a hospital, Mr. Welch made a bid for freedom, breaking away at the Amsterdam train station. But, when his pursuers fired into the crowd, he gave himself up in order to save the lives of the civilians.
        His next stop was Stalagluft III, where he was recruited into a escape plot organized by Roger Bushell, the South African squadron leader known as ''Big X,'' Mr. Welch was assigned to build a ventilation system for Harry, one of three 300-foot tunnels being dug 30 feet beneath the ground. With his usual ingenuity, Mr. Welch used parts of two beds, two dufflebags, nine coathooks, four hockey sticks, four ping-pong paddles and a bit of shoe leather to construct a bellows system connected to the tunnel by a series of linked powdered-milk cans.
        Of the 76 men who made their way through Harry the night of March 24, 1944, only 3 made it safely to freedom. Of the 73 who were recaptured, 50 were summarily executed on direct orders from Hitler, an atrocity that was avenged after the war when the executioners were caught and hanged for war crimes.
        For all his contribution to the great escape, Mr. Welch was not among those who went through the tunnel. Months earlier, on June 16, 1943, he and 23 other officers pretending to be on delousing duty had simply walked out through the main gate, wearing fake German uniforms made in a secret prison tailor shop.
        A week later, Mr. Welch and a fellow British officer found a German airfield and were on the verge of stealing a plane to fly to Sweden when they were surprised by the plane's crew, who might have taken them prisoner had they taken a closer look at their uniforms.
        The next day the pair made a second attempt to steal a plane and this time they were taken prisoner  and packed off to Colditz.
        With its high thick walls soaring above mountain bluffs and with more guards than prisoners, Colditz was considered escape-proof. But of 191 recorded escape attempts, 31 were successful. Indeed, for all the German precautions, it was a tribute to the prisoners' ingenuity that it was not until half a century later that workmen found a secret radio that had kept the prisoners abreast of war news.
        By far the most audacious of the escape plots was the construction of a full-sized, two-man glider in a walled-off section of the castle attic.  Mr. Welch used his technical expertise to verify that the glider -- made of bed slats covered with millet-treated sleeping-bag cloth -- would withstand the stresses of flight, including being launched by a catapult powered by the five-floor drop of a concrete-filled bathtub.
        Although the glider's design was later judged airworthy by aviation experts, what might have been the most spectacular escape of the war was made unnecessary by the arrival of American forces in April 1945. As the Colditz guards watched in sheepish disbelief, Mr. Welch and other prisoners showed off the glider  in the castle courtyard.
        After the war Mr. Welch worked on rocket engines, then became a gliding instructor and wrote several books on gliding.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann, and a daughter.
      