
        Gen. Sani Abacha, who died yesterday at 54, was the seventh Nigerian officer to come to power by force since the country gained independence from Britain in 1960. But even against this background, General Abacha established a distinctive record of brutal rule.
        Nigerian human rights groups, clandestinely active in the country and openly critical in exile, have charged that more people were arrested in his five and a half years in power than in the five decades of British rule.
        General Abacha regularly expressed his authority through fiat or intimidation, but rarely revealed much about himself, giving no interviews and keeping to his official mansion, known as Aso Rock. He would arrive at his office late in the day and work through the night, staying aloof even from his own ministers and military advisers.
        A 1995 article in The New York Times reported that ''journalists who have gotten too close to the subject of General Abacha's personal life are often arrested.'' And even in Nigerian circles, little was known about the dictator's life beyond the terse entries in the public record.
        But his face, always obscured by dark glasses, was seen throughout the country on billboards that proclaimed, ''Abacha is the Answer.'' Public works projects were named for him or his wife, Maryam, with whom he had nine children.
        He was born on Sept. 20, 1943, in Kano State in the northern Muslim area that has produced most of the country's leaders. He attended school in Kano and just after independence was admitted to the Nigerian Military Training College in the northern city of Kaduna. In 1963 he received his commission as a second lieutenant after studying at the Mons Defense Officers' Cadet Training College in Aldershot, England.
        In 1967, when mostly Ibo forces tried to wrench their region and its oil riches out of a federated Nigeria and gain independence as Biafra, the young officer fought in the civil war, and the secessionists were defeated. After the war, he continued his military training in England and then in Monterey, Calif.
        Though his superiors recommended in 1971 that he never be promoted above the rank of colonel because he  was ''not considered stable enough for higher command,'' he nonetheless rose steadily. He was made a brigadier in 1980, a major general in 1984 and a lieutenant general in 1987. He was also involving himself in political affairs.
        As oil, the country's main source of revenue, fell in price in the early 80's, President Shehu Shagari, who was elected in 1979, was toppled by the military on Dec. 31, 1983. It was the first of three coups in which General Abacha had a leading role, this time collaborating with Gen. Ibrahim Babangida.
        The plotters installed Maj. Gen. Mohammed Buhari as leader. He was unable to reverse Nigeria's economic trials and showed little concern for human rights.
        As things continued to worsen, General Babangida and General Abacha sent troops out to depose the man they had enthroned. General Babangida took over as head of state, and General Abacha became Chief of Staff of the Army.
        General Babangida opened a nationwide debate on the form the government should take once democracy was restored. Local elections were held, and national elections were scheduled, but he decided that political traditions in the country were harmful and banned all 13 parties. In their place he created two factions, ''one a little to the left'' and the other ''a little to the right,'' both under his control.
        Elections were finally held on June 12, 1993. It appeared that Moshood K. O. Abiola, a wealthy businessman who was a member of the southern Yoruba people, had won. General Babangida annulled the election.
        When widespread protests erupted, General Babangida resigned a day before he had promised to cede power to a civilian government. He gave the presidency to Ernest Shonekan, a civilian if unelected leader, who was also a Yoruba. General Abacha was the only member of the Babangida Government to stay on, as Defense Minister.
        President Shonekan lasted only two and a half months. On Nov. 17, 1993, as he was preparing for a meeting with striking labor leaders, General Abacha staged his third coup, taking the top post himself.
        A day later he outlawed the two government-sponsored parties and  banned political activity. ''We will not condone or tolerate any act of indiscipline,'' he declared.
        In June 1994, Mr. Abiola declared himself to be the rightful president. A day later he was put in jail, where he remains.
        Oil workers struck, calling for democracy. The military responded with violence and broke the strike within two months. In the summer of 1994, General Abacha imprisoned labor officials, journalists, politicians and rights activists. He announced decrees that put his Government above Nigeria's courts and permitted preventive detention. He shut down three major newspapers.
        In March 1995, his Government announced, to some skepticism, that it had squelched a coup, and it was reported that within a month between 60 and 300 officers were executed along with 40 civilians.
        At the same time General Abacha ordered the arrest of Lieut. Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, who in 1979 had been the only Nigerian military leader to have ever voluntarily turned over power to an elected official.  Along with 39 others, he was charged with treason, leading to appeals from Pope John Paul II and Margaret Thatcher for leniency. On Oct. 1, 1995 General Abacha announced that he had lifted the death sentence on the 40 men.
        He did not, however, accede to appeals for clemency in the case of Ken Saro-Wiwa, a writer and human rights activist, who was hanged along with eight of his associates on Nov. 10, 1995. He had been charged with provoking assassinations.
        Many of the Government's critics believed that he was killed because of his role in the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, which sought a share of oil money for the ethnic group whose traditional lands lie over oil deposits. General Abacha is widely believed to have amassed a personal fortune from oil.
        In January 1996 a group calling itself the United Front for Nigeria's Liberation claimed responsibility for a plane crash in which the general's 28-year-old son, Ibrahim, was killed.
        The United States has imposed various levels of sanctions, banning flights because of security concerns, cutting assistance after the annulment of elections and again because of charges of Nigerian Government involvement in drug trafficking.
        When Walter Carrington, the American Ambassador, was leaving his post last year, his farewell party was broken up by the police.
        As General Abacha was being chastised by world leaders, he sought to establish Nigeria's military might as the peacekeeping power of West Africa. In February, Nigerian troops took Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, chased out a junta and, in a seeming paradox,  paved the way for a democratically elected president.
        In March, Pope John Paul visited Nigeria, calling for greater democracy and human rights in the country. A month later, parliamentary elections were held, but at many polling places soldiers and policemen outnumbered voters as the opposition called for a boycott. Pro-democracy groups claimed that General Abacha had rigged the list of candidates.
        The general himself was preparing to run for President in August in an election in which he had in effect selected token opponents.
        NEW CHAPTER IN NIGERIA: THE OBITUARY
      