
        Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, second-in-command to Pope John Paul II during the most active and turbulent times of his papacy and the architect of reconciliation with the Communist world, died today in Rome. He was 83.
        The cause of death was an infection after minor surgery, according to the Italian news agency ANSA.
        The high point of Cardinal Casaroli's career came in 1989, a year before his retirement, when he helped arrange the historic meeting between the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Pope John Paul II at the Vatican.
        Today, in a condolence message, the Pope described the Cardinal as ''an impassioned weaver of peaceful relations between individuals and nations, carrying out courageous and meaningful steps with fine diplomatic sensitivity -- in particular to improve the situation of the church in Eastern Europe.''
        Even before he was appointed Secretary of State in April 1979, Cardinal Casaroli's efforts to restore diplomatic ties with the Soviet bloc had earned him the sobriquet ''the Pope's Henry Kissinger.'' In the 1960's and 70's he was the principal architect of the Vatican's policy of cautious reconciliation with Communist governments, which began under Pope John XXIII and which sought to improve conditions for the Catholic clergy behind the Iron Curtain.
        In 1971, as an archbishop, he was the first Vatican official to visit the Soviet Union since 1924. Three years later he was the first to visit Cuba under Fidel Castro.
        Even earlier, he had brokered an easing of relations between the church and state in Poland. After one visit there in 1967, the Polish Government agreed to allow the elevation of Karol Wojtyla, Archbishop of Cracow, to Cardinal. Karol Wojtyla later became Pope John Paul II.
        Seven months after the Pope was elected, he appointed Cardinal Casaroli Secretary of State, a position equivalent to prime minister.
        The election of a Polish Pope was fraught with potential difficulties, including a worsening of Polish-Russian and Catholic-Orthodox relations. The Pope calculated that Cardinal Casaroli's experience in the diplomacy of detente could ease those tensions, and soon after his appointment Cardinal Casaroli met with the Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko.
        The Cardinal was on his way to New York to receive an honorary doctorate from St. John's University when the Pope was shot in 1981. Two hours after his plane landed, Cardinal Casaroli boarded a return flight to Rome, telling reporters, ''My duty is to be with the Holy Father.'' He ran the Vatican while the Pope recuperated.
        In the beginning of their relationship, the Pope, a fierce anti-Communist, did not always agreed with his more cautious deputy, preferring a more uncompromising stance. But those differences were soon smoothed out and the two men worked closely to help sustain the driving force, especially in Poland, behind the democratic changes that swept one Eastern-bloc country after another in the late 1980's.
        Agostino Casaroli was born in Castel San Giovanni, in Piacenza, in northern Italy, on Nov. 24, 1914. The son of a tailor, he had an uncle who was a bishop and another who was a rector of a seminary, and he began studying for the priesthood at 16. He was ordained in 1937 and entered the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy in Rome the same year.
        Affable and courtly but reserved, Father Casaroli joined the office of the Secretary of State as an archivist in 1940, during the reign of Pope Pius XII. He taught protocol and ''diplomatic style'' at the Pontifical Academy from 1956 to 1961, the year he was recruited by Pope John XXIII to serve as an undersecretary in the Department of Extraordinary Affairs, where he dealt with Latin America.
        It was as a protege of the next Pontiff, Pope Paul VI, who was elected in 1963, that Father Casaroli's policy of closer ties began paying off in Eastern Europe. He made frequent fact-finding trips to Soviet-controlled countries, often traveling incognito in civilian clothes. In 1964 he signed a partial accord between the Vatican and Hungary, the first such agreement of the cold war, and negotiated the restoration of full relations with Yugoslavia in 1970. He often cited a remark of John XXIII, ''There are enemies of the church, but the church has no enemies.''
        The Cardinal, who spoke Spanish, French, English, German and Portuguese, and studied Polish, Russian and Chinese, was tactful in them all.
        His diplomatic finesse was put to good use in 1972, when Juan D. Peron, the former Argentine dictator, who was on his way back to Buenos Aires, stopped in Rome to seek an audience with the Pope. Even though it was clear that Peron would return to power, the Vatican wanted to avoid the appearance of giving him its blessing. Cardinal Casaroli met with Peron for 90 minutes in his hotel and emerged to announce, ''Mr. Peron has himself considered it opportune to forgo seeking an audience with the Pontiff.''
        Often portrayed as a skillful seeker of compromise, the Cardinal could also hew a tougher line. He was credited with helping to draft the unstinting language on human rights and religious freedom in the declaration signed at the 1975 Helsinki Conference on European Security and Cooperation.
        He was named a cardinal by John Paul II in June 1979.
        Under his tenure as Secretary of State, the Vatican's relationship to the Italian Government also changed dramatically. Cardinal Casaroli signed a concordat in 1984 under which Roman Catholicism ceased to be the state religion of Italy. But he insured that the state would still help the Vatican, notably in maintaining churches and preserving religious art.
        And when the Vatican bank, the Institute for Religious Works, was found to have financial ties to Banco Ambrosiano and became embroiled in the scandal surrounding Ambrosiano's collapse in 1982, Cardinal Casaroli was instrumental in deflecting the disgrace. He directed the Vatican to negotiate a settlement with Ambrosiano's creditors worth $244 million. He also supervised the rewriting of Vatican rules to limit its financial activities at commercial banks.
        The Cardinal submitted his resignation in 1989 when he turned 75, but the Pope asked him to stay on. When he finally left office in 1990, and was replaced by Angelo Cardinal Sodano, the Pope explained that he delayed the retirement because ''I considered that I could not immediately deprive myself of such a wise and expert collaborator.''
        The funeral is scheduled for Friday morning in St. Peter's Basilica.
      