
        Michael L. Pollock, perhaps the nation's most respected expert on how much and how hard adults should exercise, died last Friday at age 61. He suffered a stroke that afternoon at the annual meeting of the American College of Sports Medicine in Orlando, Fla., and died that night, according to the organization.
        Mr. Pollock, of Gainesville, Fla., published three books and more than 300 articles on exercise. Barry Franklin, the president-elect of the organization, the world's preeminent sports medicine institution, called him ''a giant in the field of exercise science, a man largely responsible for the knowledge base we have today in exercise training and cardiac rehabilitation.''
        ''Over the last 20 years,'' Mr. Franklin said, ''he was probably the single most important force in getting cardiac rehabilitation recognized by the medical community as an integral part of contemporary care. He helped patients help themselves.''
        In a study, Mr. Pollock found that heart-transplant patients who did weight training could prevent their anti-rejection medication from reducing bone density. That, in turn, reduced the chances of brittle bones and stress fractures. He then drew up individual lifting programs for each transplant patient.
        Last week, a position paper co-authored by Mr. Pollock was hailed by the American College of Sports Medicine as ''the cornerstone of aerobic training, resistance exercise and flexibility for healthy adults.''
        To colleagues, he was a role model. Dr. Lewis G. Maharam, the president of the sports-medicine organization's New York chapter, described Mr. Pollock's role this way:
        ''Every patient asks a sports-medicine doctor, 'How much exercise should I do?' Michael Pollock was the one doing the research to find out. The greatest health problem in the country is that people aren't exercising. The whole point of his latest paper was to quantify how much is enough and how to get people exercising more.''
        In 1978, Mr. Pollock headed the American College of Sports Medicine's committee that formulated its first position paper on the quality and quantity of exercise. Revisions in 1990 and last week incorporated further research.
        Since 1986, he had been affiliated with the University of Florida, where he was a professor of medicine, physiology and health and human performance and director of the Center of Exercise Science. Despite arthritis, he took his own advice and exercised regularly.
        In 1990, he recommended that such aerobic activities as running, walking, swimming, bicycling, stair climbing, rowing, cross-country skiing and rope jumping be done three to five times a week, 20 to 50 minutes a session, at a heartbeat of 50 to 85 percent of maximum. Later, he suggested the addition of two days of strength training, even for older people.
        He said when people grew older, their oxygen capacity declined, body fat increased, bone mass diminished and muscles weakened and shriveled. He said that strength training could prevent or reverse those negatives.
        His 1994 study showed that after six months of weight training, 50 healthy volunteers ages 62 to 82 averaged a 14 percent increase in bone-mineral density.
        In 1992, he reported on another study that showed the benefits of exercise. An analysis of the records of 13,636 men and 4,828 women disclosed that unfit men were four times more likely than fit men to develop noninsulin-dependent diabetes. For unfit women, the chances were 40 percent greater than for fit women.
        In a 1996 study of 121 men and 27 women who had not lifted weights, he concluded that people could build almost as much strength and muscle mass with one set of exercises as three. He had one random group do one set of weight exercises for 20 minutes a day and another random group do three times as much.
        After 14 weeks, both groups had strengthened their quadriceps by 30 percent and their hamstrings by 20 to 30 percent, but the group that did three times as much weight exercises was only 4 percent stronger.
        ''One set is enough,'' he concluded, ''but you have to work hard.''
        Mr. Pollock was slightly built. He was in constant pain from arthritis, according to Nancy Dohn, the director of operations for the University of Florida's Health Science Center.
        ''He was very fit,'' she said. ''He would exercise two to four times a week in his office with equipment he used in research. He was the most positive person I've been around.''
        Michael Lee Pollock was born on June 24, 1936, in Los Angeles. He received a bachelor's degree in physical education from the University of Arizona in 1958. He received a master's degree in 1961 and a doctorate in 1967 in exercise physiology from the University of Illinois.
        He taught and did research at Illinois from 1961 to 1967, Wake Forest University from 1967 to 1973, the Institute for Aerobics Research in Dallas from 1973 to 1977, the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee from 1977 to 1984, and the Texas Heart Institute in Houston in 1985. He was  president of the American College of Sports Medicine from 1982 to 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Rhonda; a son, Jonathan, and two daughters, Lauren and Elisa; his mother, Fauna Pollock of Los Angeles; a brother, Alan, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and two sisters, Christine Stephens of Rainbow City, Ala., and Karen Wookey of Bloomington, Minn.
      