
        Junior Wells, a blues singer and harmonica player who was one of the  major players of Chicago's dynamic, funky, electric blues sound in the late 1950's and 60's and an influential figure in the Chicago blues style, died on Thursday at Weiss Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Wells had been in a coma since Sept. 5, when he had a heart attack, said his manager, Marty Salzman. He had been following his characteristically demanding tour schedule: he performed on Aug. 21 in New York City at a benefit for the guitarist Johnny Copeland and on the next day in Buffalo, where he complained of exhaustion. Doctors said he had  lymphoma, Mr. Salzman said.
        Mr. Wells, whose original name was Amos Blackmore, was born in West Memphis, Ark., on Dec. 9, 1934.  He taught himself how to play the harmonica and began working as a musician on the streets of West Memphis by the time he was 7. He moved in 1946 to Chicago, where he was exposed to the blues while listening to the harmonica player Sonny Boy Williamson on the radio. Williamson's music would be a lasting influence on Mr. Wells, and one of Williamson's signature tunes, ''Hoodoo Man Blues,'' came to be associated with him.
        Mr. Wells formed a group called the Little Boys, later renamed the Three Aces, which became popular in the neighborhood lounges of Chicago, but his first significant professional break came when he replaced Little Walter (Marion Jacobs) as  Muddy Waters's harmonica player, in 1952 and 1953. After serving two years in the Army, he re-formed the Three Aces and also made records  on his own for independent Chicago labels like Chief and Bright Star. In 1958, he started playing with the guitarist Buddy Guy, who for the next dozen years would become one of his closest and most frequent musical associates. He made recordings with Mr. Guy on the Chess label in the early 1960's, and by the mid-60's, when the college-concert circuit became a viable way of life for blues musicians, he was one of its stars.
        Some of his best recorded work came during this time on tight, exciting records made for Delmark, like the 1965 ''Hoodoo Man Blues,'' with Mr. Guy. He also became a favorite of rock musicians, and during that period, with Mr. Guy, he played to rock audiences at the Fillmore West, and made a State Department tour of East Africa. In 1970, he toured with Canned Heat and the Rolling Stones.
        The Buddy Guy-Junior Wells blues band became a fixture on the blues circuit before it split up in 1978. Robert Palmer, a music critic of The New York Times, saw a 1978 performance at the Bottom Line in Greenwich Village and wrote that their set included a ''breathtaking country blues, done as a duet, some gritty slow blues in a more urban vein, and some chunky, convincing funk.'' ''Mr. Guy tended to be subdued and delicate on guitar and passionate vocally,'' he added, ''while Mr. Wells proves once again that he  was the only performer who convincingly bridges the gap between old-fashioned Delta blues and the soul stylings of James Brown, without slighting either.''
        Mr. Wells had a middle-range voice that could switch easily and dramatically between hurt sensitivity and a defiant, animated holler. His harmonica style was a cross between the slower Southern single-note style and the up-tempo, jazz-influenced style of Little Walter.
        His career never faltered. With the renewed attention given to the blues in recent years, he was commonly called on by leading pop singers to add a blues authenticity to their performances. He appeared with singers like Van Morrison and, more recently, Tracy Chapman, whom he joined during her performance at  the Grammy Awards ceremony last  year. Mr. Wells himself was nominated for a Grammy in the traditional blues category for his album ''Come On in This House.'' He recently completed work on the film ''Blues Brothers 2000.''
        Mr. Wells is survived by two sisters, Irma Jean Austin and Bertha Lee White, both of Chicago.
        ''When I was starting, everyone said, 'A young man like you ought to be playing jazz,' '' Mr. Wells once said. ''But the blues is my life and I'm stuck with it. ''
      