
        Sir David English, widely considered one of Britain's most astute journalists, who transformed the struggling Daily Mail into a highly influential tabloid and redefined Fleet Street standards for editing and reporting, died Wednesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 67 and had suffered a stroke the night before.
        Sir David, known for his love and enthusiasm for the news, was editor of The Daily Mail for 21 years. An ardent supporter of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he was knighted by her in 1982 and was to have been made a life peer this Saturday.
        His disenchantment with Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative Party under her successor, John Major, was reflected in the relatively friendly coverage The Daily Mail gave to the Labor Party, in sharp contrast to the newspaper's historical pro-Conservative bent. The shift is considered one reason for Labor's return to power a year ago.
        Sir David had a reputation for ruthlessness and zealous news coverage that stemmed from his days as a young reporter, when he once stole mailbags from the state-owned British Rail for an article about its sloppy security.
        As an editor, he was known for mercilessly censuring subordinates who did not meet his expectations but was extraordinarily patient with young reporters. Under his leadership The Daily Mail became compulsory reading for Britain's middle class with a circulation that grew to more than two million.
        Sir David joined The Daily Mail's parent, Associated Newspapers, in 1969. He became editor in 1971, and in 1992 he was appointed overall editor of the newspaper company, which also owns The Mail on Sunday and The Evening Standard.
        An only child, at the age of 9 months he was left in the care of his mother and his maternal grandparents after the death of his father, who was an accountant.
        Early on, he developed a fascination with newspapers while reading the three dailies his grandfather received. He also developed a flair for business and helped his mother run her boarding house business at Broadstairs in Kent, in southeast England, and eventually a hotel at Bournemouth, in the southwest.
        Those interests coalesced as he grew older, and he founded a chain of ''giveaway'' newspapers that became profitable enough for Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, to buy them at a hefty sum that made Sir David independently wealthy.
        A college dropout, Sir David had started his journalism career as a copy boy for a local paper, The Bournemouth Evening Echo. His big breaks came as a foreign correspondent for The Sunday Dispatch, where he was remembered for breaking a story about Errol Flynn's sex life. By age 30 he had risen to the prestigious post of Washington correspondent for The Daily Express, which later named him chief United States correspondent and eventually promoted him to foreign editor.
        In 1968 he was recruited to be editor of The Daily Sketch, which was merged with The Daily Mail a few years later. He made his mark by engineering the paper into a tabloid to serve what he called ''Middle England,'' the sort of silent majority of the British populace with which he most closely identified. The Daily Mail's influence grew so prominent that rivals in the broadsheet press, radio and television referred to its contents as the ''tabloid agenda.''
        He was highly regarded by the royal family for his efforts to protect the privacy of Harry and William, the sons of Diana, the Princess of Wales, particularly after she was killed in a Paris car crash last September.
        Sir David is survived by his wife of 44 years, Irene, and three children, Nikki Smith, Amanda Christmas and Neil English.
        Correction:  June 16, 1998, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about Sir David English, a British newspaper editor who was highly regarded by the royal family for his efforts to protect the privacy of the sons of the Princess of Wales, misstated the date of her death. It was last Aug. 31, not in September.
      