
        Hammond Innes, the author of ''The Wreck of the Mary Deare'' and more than 30 other novels of adventure and suspense, died on Wednesday in Kersey, England. He was 84.
        A former artillery major and a yachtsman, Mr. Innes traveled the world in search of stories. Beginning in the late 1930's, he wrote books about whaling in Antarctica, the oil boom in Canada, the Berlin airlift and, in the case of ''Mary Deare'' and other novels, peril on the high seas. As Anthony Boucher said about ''The Strode Adventurer'' in The New York Times Book Review, ''Here is one of the sheerly enjoyable reading experiences of the year.''
        Orville Prescott, a daily book critic for The Times, was a particular fan of Mr. Innes's work, regularly reviewing his novels with a full bouquet of encomiums. As he said in his review of ''Mary Deare'' in 1956, ''Original in its plot and extraordinarily clever in its constant succession of mysterious twists and surprising revelations, it is an utterly engrossing tale.''
        No matter what critics would have said, Mr. Innes's readers were addicts when it came to his books, which were cinematic in sweep and sold 40 million copies. Some of his books were made into films, including ''The Wreck of the Mary Deare'' and ''Campbell's Kingdom.''
        The inspiration for ''Mary Deere'' was Mr. Innes's brush with disaster when his ship was almost wrecked off the English Channel. For years, he would spend six months traveling and doing research, then six months writing. He also wrote a half-dozen works of nonfiction, including ''Sea and Islands,'' about his voyages on his ocean racer, the Mary Deare.
        Ralph Hammond Innes was born in Horsham, England. He began his career as a journalist and published his first novel, ''The Doppelganger,'' in 1934, followed by two more books before he joined the Royal Artillery in 1940. ''Attack Alarm'' was serialized in The Saturday Evening Post and became his first success. After World War II, his career moved swiftly as he wrote nearly one adventure novel a year.
        Among his books are ''Fire in the Snow,'' ''Gale Warning'' and ''The Doomed Oasis.'' Beginning with ''The Big Footprints'' in 1977, his books dealt with ecological issues. He kept writing into the 1990's, with ''Isvik,'' ''Target Antarctica'' and ''Delta Connection.''
        No immediate family members survive.
        Mr. Innes, who stressed the authenticity of his work, was apparently a man without literary pretensions. As he said with pride, ''I'm a storyteller more than anything else.''
      