
        Charles Disch, who dispensed strong bitter medicine and good-natured vitriol during more than 60 years as the Shelter Island druggist and resident curmudgeon, died on May 31 at a mainland nursing home in Greenport, N.Y. He was 96.
        As the longtime proprietor of Shelter Island's only drug store, Mr. Disch became an indispensable fixture on the small secluded island between the forks of eastern Long Island.
        On a Manhattan-sized island whose population would barely fill a single big city apartment complex, Mr. Disch's Shelter Island Heights Pharmacy, just up the hill from the Greenport Ferry, was where folks from all over the island went to fill a prescription, pick up a newspaper, sip a soda, lick an ice-cream cone, send a telegram, catch up on the local gossip and receive a daily dose of the mock crotchety proprietor's patented procacity.
        Not that he had an unkind word for everyone. In an insular society where anyone who hadn't been dissed by Doc Disch couldn't be said to have arrived, he had his standards.
        And while any of Shelter Island's 2,000 or so year-round residents could rely on a cheerful tongue lashing, on an island whose summer population swells to more than 10,000 sometimes annoying vacationers, Doc Disch took a while to cool off to summer people, especially those with attitudes.
        Let a stylish young matron come tripping into the store chirping away to some friends about how much they would love meeting this really wonderful old curmudgeon character, and Doc Disch would become elaborately polite, even managing a thin smile as he suppressed a chuckle over what he would be saying about his condescending visitors once they left.
        Although he was around so long it might have seemed he had arrived with the first white settlers in 1652, Mr. Disch was actually born in the South Fork town of Sag Harbor, where he and his older sister, Beatrice, were orphaned early and grew up in the swirling company of their Irish-born mother's legions of nieces and nephews.
        A small, trim man whose youthful red hair was set off by piercing blue eyes, Mr. Disch was an accomplished athlete who became something of a dandy and enjoyed the Roaring Twenties so much he saw no reason to stop partying just because it was no longer illegal.
        After working his way through the Fordham University College of Pharmacy, Mr. Disch returned to Sag Harbor, married and became a pharmacist's assistant on Shelter Island.
        By the time he bought the business a decade later and moved into the six-room apartment above the drug store, Mr. Disch was well on his way to establishing his legend in a community of East Enders with such a rarefied sense of humor that their ancestors named one North Fork town Southold and called a South Fork community North Haven.
        For a man who operated his drug store seven days a week and sometimes had to come downstairs at 3 in the morning to fill an emergency prescription, he maintained a remarkably active outside life centered on golf by day and tavern life by night.
        Along with his pal, the late Jake Piccozzi, who operated a gas station around the corner and was known as the Mayor of Bridge Street, Mr. Disch became the center of a hard-partying band of Shelter Island revelers that sometimes included former Gov. Hugh L. Carey.
        It was a tribute to Mr. Disch's reputation as an equal opportunity celebrant that as a steadfast and lifelong Republican he did not hold Mr. Carey's Democratic affiliation against him.
        Mr. Disch, who sometimes swam from Shelter Island to Greenport to refresh himself after a serious evening out, slowed down a bit after a son received his pharmacist's degree and joined the business in the mid-1950's, but even when he eventually gave up his place behind the pharmacist's counter and took up his position at the first stool at the soda fountain, Mr. Disch continued to be the drug store's official greeter, not to mention the chief shill for a cherished concoction only he dared call coffee.
        It is recalled by old-timers as a murky liquid so vile to the taste that some thought it could only have been brewed to grow hair on the chest, but its real purpose seemed to have been to clear the heads of those who had been out partying with the proprietor the night before.
        Mr. Disch became so partial to it and to his role at the drug store that after selling the business a few years ago and moving in with a son, he came to regret the decision, but not, apparently, his six-decade run as the cheerful scourge of Shelter Island.
        He is survived by his 90-year-old wife, Dorothy; two sons, Paul of Shelter Island and Peter of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; a daughter, Mary Barbara Dubas of Shelter Island; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      