
        Lewis H. Young, a former editor in chief of Business Week who expanded the horizons of business reporting, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Ossining, N.Y.
        Mr. Young died of a heart attack as he was leaving his office at the Cahners Publishing Company, where he was editorial director of Electronic News, his wife, Joanne, said.
        Trained in engineering and physics, Mr. Young was among the first business magazine editors to emphasize coverage of technology, electronics and computers. At Business Week, he was in charge during a period when economic news was frequently prominent, including an Arab oil embargo, recession in the mid-1970's and the New York City financial crisis.
        He was also editor in chief of Electronics Magazine, which, like Business Week, was a McGraw-Hill publication. He also started several other business and electronics magazines.
        He was active with Catalyst, a national advocacy group for the advancement of women in business and the professions, for a number of years and became chairman of its board in 1982.
        After 15 years as chief editor, he left Business Week in 1984. Mr. Young moved to Hong Kong and started the magazine Far East Business. In 1989, he joined the Cahners Publishing, a unit of Reed Elsevier P.L.C., the British-Dutch information company.
        He directed Asian operations of Cahners and was editorial director of Cahners's Electronic Business Asia, based in Hong Kong. In 1992, he became editorial director of Electronic Business, a Cahners monthly based in Boston. He moved to Electronic News as editorial director last year.
        Mr. Young was born in Philadelphia. He received undergraduate degrees in mechanical engineering and physics at Purdue University. After college, he was a physicist with the Bettis Atomic Power division of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. He earned a master's degree in business administration from New York University. He was a first lieutenant in the Army Corps of Engineers from 1943 to 1946.
        In addition to his wife, Joanne Root Young, he is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Anne Albanese of Norwalk, Conn., and a sister, Pauline Schamberg of Buffalo Grove, Ill.
      