
        William Wood Prince, a prominent Chicago businessman and philanthropist, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Chicago. He was 83.
        Mr. Wood Prince, who was born in St. Louis as William Henry Wood, was a distant cousin of Frederick H. Prince, whose Prince Trust controlled the Union Stockyards and Transit Company and Armour & Company, among others. With no heir to his fortune, Frederick Prince legally adopted his cousin, who then took the Prince name.
        After graduation from Groton and Princeton University, Mr. Wood Prince began his career as a clerk at the First National Bank of Chicago and worked his way up to bank officer in 1942. It was while serving as a captain in the Army in World War II that he was adopted. Upon his return to Chicago, he became a trustee of the Central Manufacturing District, which included the Union Stockyards, then the largest livestock market in the world.
        At the stockyards, Mr. Wood Prince adapted new technology such as electronic weighing devices and air-conditioning in the huge International Amphitheater.
        Mr. Wood Prince became president, chief executive and chairman of Armour & Company, the meatpacking and processing company that is now a part of Conagra Inc. He oversaw the replacement of hand ledgers with personal computers and doubled the research budget.
        He left Armour in 1969 to oversee F. H. Prince & Company, a private holding company for his family's vast corporate and real estate interests. He was also a member of several corporate boards, including the First National Bank of Chicago, Commonwealth Edison and W. R. Grace & Company.
        Mr. Wood Prince was a former world champion in squash and frequent golfer. He also loved art and was responsible for persuading his close friend Marc Chagall to create  the Chagall mosaic, a landmark in a plaza outside the First National Bank of Chicago. He was also a trustee of the Art Institute of Chicago.
        In addition to his keen business sense, Mr. Wood Prince was equally well known for his philanthropic activities. As a trustee of the Prince Charitable Trusts, he donated widely to many cultural, educational and environmental organizations.
        Mr. Wood Prince was involved in several projects that sought to advance innovative technologies. He tried to develop technology that would allow new food products to be produced from a plant grown using sea water, and he initiated a cattle breeding project in the Bahamas in the hopes of introducing European cattle into the United States. In 1995 he co-founded Sky Station International, which hopes to use a stationary suborbital platform to handle broad-band wireless communication.
        He received numerous awards, including the Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur, in recognition of his contributions to the French economy.
        Mr. Wood Prince is survived by his wife, Eleanor; three sons, William and Alex, of Chicago, and Alain, of Lake Forest, Ill.; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 7, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on Jan. 30 about William Wood Prince, a prominent Chicago businessman and philanthropist, referred imprecisely to the way in which he became heir to Frederick H. Prince, a distant cousin who legally adopted him. Frederick Prince indeed had offspring, but one son, Frederick H. Prince, was not interested in the family business and the other, Norman Prince, died in World War I. A reader's letter postmarked Feb. 25 pointed out the error.
      