
        Dominick Della Rocca, a Brooklyn businessman and community volunteer who rebuilt a network of what he called ''neighborhood mayors'' in and around New York to provide trips to the circus or to Shea Stadium for baseball games for handicapped young people, died June 11 at Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, Ill. He was 75 and lived in Breezy Point, Queens.
        He died of natural causes, according to the Colonial Funeral Home.
        Mr. Della Rocca was instrumental in the revival of what is now known as Community Mayors of New York and New Jersey and served as its director. An all-volunteer group based in Brooklyn, it organizes recreational trips and shows for children and adults with special needs. Typical events have been visits to Coney Island, the circus in Manhattan, the New York Aquarium and the Bronx Zoo.
        More recently, he helped create a summer camp for blind children in Suffern, N.Y., known as Camp Montebello.
        He also was persuasive in getting local businesses to donate assorted goodies or to help troubled youths.
        A Brooklyn native, he served in Europe in World War II and upon returning, he went into the restaurant business begun in 1894 by his grandparents. Besides running his various restaurants, he was chairman of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Board and he helped found the Fort Greene Civic Center.
        Mr. Della Rocca also sat on the New York City Youth Board under Mayors Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch.
        The Community Mayors group was a revival of an organization called the Locality Mayors that was founded in 1875 in Manhattan. For a time, every block on the Lower East Side had a member, usually a politician or saloon keeper to whom people would take their troubles and receive rent money or a Christmas turkey in return for their votes.
        Under the leadership of Louis Zeltner, a newspaperman, the group became a charity and shed its political associations, but it broke up after his death decades ago. Mr. Della Rocca adopted the idea as a way to aid the disabled.
        He is survived by his wife, Phyllis; a daughter, Shelley Aprea of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Peter J., of Cranford, N.J., and two granddaughters.
      