
        Edward Eliscu, a lyricist who wrote the words for ''Without a Song,'' ''Orchids in the Moonlight'' and dozens of other popular songs, died on Thursday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 96.
        Mr. Eliscu was also a playwright, screenwriter and writer for television, but he was best known as a songwriter. He collaborated with composers like Gus Kahn, Vincent Youmans, Vernon Duke, Billy Rose, Jay Gorney and Nacio Herb Brown on songs that included ''Carioca,'' ''More Than You Know,'' ''Flying Down to Rio,'' ''Great Day!,'' ''They Cut Down the Old Pine Tree'' and ''Happy Because I'm in Love.''
        In 1976 he was celebrated in the Lyrics and Lyricists series at the 92d Street Y. In a review in The New York Times, John S. Wilson said that Mr. Eliscu could be ''identified as a witty and urbane man with a devotion to social justice as well as the author of lyrics that say a great deal more, but in satirical or emotional terms, than one normally gets from popular songs.''
        He was blacklisted in the 1950's because of his outspoken political views but continued writing for television and theater. Among his musicals was ''The Banker's Daughter,'' which he wrote with Sol Kaplan in 1962. He was president of the American Guild of Authors and Composers from 1968 to 1973 and was later inducted into the Songwriters' Hall of Fame. In recent years, he collaborated with the artist Edward Sorel, writing poems that accompanied Mr. Sorel's drawings.
        He was born in Manhattan and studied at the City College of New York. He began his career as an actor, appearing on Broadway with Edward G. Robinson in ''The Racket.'' Then he wrote comedy sketches and lyrics for ''Meet the People'' and ''The Third Little Show.'' During the 1930's he was in Hollywood, writing movies (for Mae West, Rita Hayworth and others) as well as songs.
        He is survived by his wife, the painter Stella Bloch, who lives in Bethel, Conn.; two sons, David, of Newtown, and Peter, of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
        Almost 40 years ago, his obituary, written by The Associated Press, appeared in The Times; it was the ''other'' Edward Eliscu, who had also been a Hollywood screenwriter, who had died. The next day, a correction appeared, identifying the two Edward Eliscus by their primary occupations, the dead one as a retired lawyer and novelist and the live one as a New York playwright and lyricist. The live Mr. Eliscu took it all in good humor, saying, ''I never realized how many variations could be squeezed out of the Mark Twain death report gag.''
      