
        Jafar Sharif-Emami, the last of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi's Prime Ministers to make a political attempt to counter the Islamic fundamentalism sweeping Iran 20 years ago, died on June 16 at New York Hospital. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Sharif-Emami, one of the Shah's close confidants, held many high government and legislative positions. He was Prime Minister twice, first in 1960-61 and in 1978, in a belated attempt to stem the Shiite revolution through political and social changes.
        Through Mr. Sharif-Emami, the Shah legalized political parties and set elections for mid-1979. The Prime Minister began a campaign against widespread corruption, released half of all political prisoners, ended press censorship except for reports that criticized the Shah and the army and moved to redirect Iran's drive toward modernization so as not to offend Islamic sensitivities.
        The changes met some of the important demands posed by dissidents for many years. But the efforts failed to deflate the growing crisis, as civil servants and industrial workers joined the opposition and crippled public services and vital industries, including oil production. And public anger began to spill into the streets.
        After little more than two months in office, in November 1978, Mr. Sharif-Emami handed his resignation to the Shah, who then tried a military approach with Gholam Riza Azhari, his final Prime Minister, as the nation erupted in revolt. After the ailing Shah's flight and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's surge to power, a revolutionary judge called for the assassinations of both Prime Ministers, as well as that of Shahpur Bakhtiar, an agnostic foe of both the Shah and the Shiites who briefly headed the Government between those reigns. Mr. Bakhtiar was stabbed to death in 1991 in the Paris suburb where he lived in exile, leading an Iranian resistance group.
        Mr. Sharif-Emami escaped to New York, where he had been president of the Pahlevi Foundation, an educational charity established by the multibillion-dollar Pahlevi Foundation Endowment of Teheran. Critics contended that the purpose of the New York foundation, from which Mr. Sharif-Emami resigned, was less to help Iranian students than to polish the Shah's image.
        Mr. Sharif-Emami's own image was that of a hard-driving engineer who liked to get things done, sometimes without reckoning the costs. He was born in Teheran and studied railroading at technical institutes in Germany and Sweden. He joined the Iranian state railways in 1931.
        In 1950, Mr. Sharif-Emami became Undersecretary of Roads and Communications. He was Minister of Industries and Mines when the Shah first named him Prime Minister in the midst of one of Iran's recurrent political crises.
        Surviving are two daughters, Shirin Sharif-Emami of San Antonio and Simin Moazami of Manhattan; a son, Ali, also of Manhattan; a sister, Shariat Zahedi of Teheran, and six grandchildren. His wife, Eshrat, died in November.
      