
        Charles Pierce Gabeler Jr., a former executive of a supposedly private airline that was really owned and operated by the Central Intelligence Agency, died on June 16 at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Perry Point, Md. He was 76 and lived in McLean, Va..
        The cause was pneumonia and he also had Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Lane Reed Gabeler.
        Mr. Gabeler, whose name was pronounced GAY-bell-er, was a naval aviator in World War II, joined the C.I.A. in 1953, retired from it some time before 1980 and worked for it under contract after retiring.
        In the late 1960's and early 1970's he directed what the C.I.A. called ''air ops'' or, more formally, ''special air operations'' of Air America, mainly in Laos. In that period, Communist forces -- North Vietnamese troops as well as Laotian Pathet Lao insurgents -- were putting pressure in Laos on Laotian Government forces and on loyalist tribesmen. Air America was quietly assisting the anti-Communist military activity.
        ''He was an outstanding officer,'' said Lawrence Devlin, a C.I.A. station chief in Laos, mainly from early 1968 to late 1970. ''He knew his air ops; that was his specialty.''
        Mr. Gabeler was about 6 feet tall, square-jawed and square-shouldered, Mr. Devlin recalled, and ''Like most aviators he had good eyesight and piercing eyes.''
        Air America, Mr. Devlin said, ''ran operations which no other airline would do, and of course with the required secrecy -- moving ammunition, men and equipment of all sorts and dropping food, too.''
        The ammunition was for the Laotian Army and also for a so-called secret army made up of lowland Lao men and of Laotian tribesmen from the rugged north of Laos. As Arthur J. Dommen, a historian of Laos, wrote in his book ''Conflict in Laos'' (1971), thanks largely to Air America, loyalist Meo tribal irregulars ''were assured the rice and salt without which they could not have gone on denying control of much of the mountain country of northern Laos to the Communists.''
        Mr. Gabeler handled well over 140 aircraft -- including some non-Air America planes -- most of them flown by retired American military pilots. They flew DC-3 and C-123 transports and various other planes.
        Mr. Gabeler's ''air ops'' also included, as Mr. Devlin put it, trying to recover American pilots ''who had gone down.'' In such cases, Mr. Devlin said, the goal was to rescue those downed pilots before Communist troops captured them. ''Every time we got one, we thought it was a great success,'' Mr. Devlin went on, ''and they didn't have to spend five or six years in the Hanoi Hilton,'' the prison for American pilots in Hanoi.
        Mr. Devlin said Mr. Gabeler contributed much to the anti-Communist forces' disruption of a North Vietnamese division in the Plain of Jars in northern Laos in 1969.
        Mr. Gabeler and his planes helped gain that victory, Mr. Devlin said, by seeing that the anti-Communist troops were ''moved from point A to point B, and that food and ammunition got to the troops in time.''
        But eventually, in 1975, the Pathet Lao took control of the nation.
        Mr. Gabeler went on to be head of air operations for the entire C.I.A., based in its headquarters in McLean. During his C.I.A. career he also worked in Taiwan, South America and Iran.
        He was born in Lawrence, Mass., grew up in Andover, Mass., and graduated from Harvard in 1944.
        His marriage to Jo Gabeler ended in divorce.
        Besides his wife of 26 years, Lane Reed Gabeler, his survivors include two daughters, Caroline Downton of Palm Beach, Fla., and Ann Ferris of Philadelphia; two sons, Charles Pierce 3d of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Thomas Dolph of Jamestown, R.I.; a stepson, George Ward Jr. of Hilton Head, S.C.; and 10  grandchildren.
      