
        Michael F. Drinkhouse, who opened a small diner in Jersey City and ended up owning some of Manhattan's best-known restaurants, notably the Blue Ribbon and the Old Homestead, as well as a string of race horses and a collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, died on June 16 at a nursing home in Monroe, La. His family would not disclose his age, but he was probably in his 90's.
        Mr. Drinkhouse was born on the Lower East Side, the son of a poor carpenter. He worked odd jobs from the time he was 10, left high school to work, and in 1921 opened the Picadilly Spa, a 12-seat restaurant in Jersey City.
        As the restaurant prospered, he branched out in Manhattan in the late 1930's and early 1940's, opening the Fleetwood Grill at 39 Broadway, the Frontenac at 183 Varick Street, and Churchill's at 139 Broadway.
        In 1942, for the eye-opening sum of more than $500,000, he leased space in the Airline Terminals Building, at 42d Street and Park Avenue, to create an uptown Churchill's. Sentiment played at least a small role in the deal. As a teen-ager, Mr. Drinkhouse had worked as a messenger at the Hotel Belmont, which once occupied the site. The war insured a heavy flow of traffic through the building, which served as a departure point for passengers traveling to the city's airports, and the restaurant became a huge success.
        Mr. Drinkhouse parlayed his profits into the acquisition of durable money-spinners like the Old Homestead and the Blue Ribbon.
        The Blue Ribbon, at 145 West 44th Street, was a Teutonic warhorse dating to an era when singers like Lauritz Melchior and Jussi Bjorling, in town for duty at the old Metropolitan Opera House, would drop by for heaping plates of German food and enormous steins of beer, served in a  Bavarian atmosphere. The violinist Fritz Kreisler was a regular (the restaurant stored his violin in a safe while he ate), as was the journalist A. J. Liebling.
        The food won no awards, but the boisterous German atmosphere, the Wagner Room, decorated with murals from the Ring, and the autographed photos of opera stars and musicians that lined the walls made the Blue Ribbon a beloved theater district landmark. Mr. Drinkhouse sold the restaurant in 1958, around the time when he began turning over the management of his other restaurants to his son, Ronald.
        Mr. Drinkhouse's other restaurants included McAvoy's, the Assembly and Manny Wolf's, which the restaurateur Alan Stillman transformed into Smith & Wollensky in 1977.
        Mr. Drinkhouse amassed a considerable fortune through shrewd investments and real estate acquisitions, but his real passions were horses and Post-Impressionist art. In the late 1940's, he bought a farm in Mount Kisco, N.Y., converted its cow barns into stables and set up a horse racing and breeding operation called Somerset Farms.
        In 1972, his horse Mr. Pegasus won the Suwannee River Handicap at Gulfstream Park in Florida and the Little Silver Handicap at Monmouth Park in New Jersey. Another horse, Greyechel, won the 1985 Duchess Stakes at Woodbine in Canada and finished second in six other stakes races in Canada. It is possible, however, that Mr. Drinkhouse's happiest racing moment came in October 1953, when Marola, sent off at odds of just over 100 to 1, won a maiden race at Jamaica race track in Queens. Mr. Drinkhouse bet $2 across the board and collected more money than it cost him to buy the horse.
        Consulting only his own taste, he acquired an art collection that included paintings by Renoir, Cezanne and Mary Cassatt. ''Everything he did he did by the seat of his pants,'' said his son, Ronald. ''Art was no exception.''
        In 1977, Mr. Drinkhouse sold his paintings at auction and moved to Ocala, Fla., where he continued to race and breed horses.
        Besides his son, Ronald, of Beverly Hills, Fla., he is survived by his wife, Sally, of Ocala, Miami Beach and Paradise Valley, Ariz.; a daughter, Eva Marie, of Paradise Valley; a sister, Dorothy, of Lady Lake, Fla.; a brother, Donald, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His son John, a Marine dental technician, was killed in Vietnam in 1967.
      