
        Peter T. Joseph, chairman and chief executive officer of Rosecliff Inc., a merchant banking concern, and chairman of the board of American Ballet Theater, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47.
        The cause was cancer, said John Silberman, a family friend.
        Mr. Joseph played a dominant role in the resurgence of Ballet Theater after a severe financial crisis threatened to shut the company down in 1993, shortly before he became chairman. He joined the board in 1991 and worked to restructure the company's finances and administration. His personal gift of $5 million did much to offset the company's debt and was intended to stimulate matching grants over several years. Michael Kaiser, whom Mr. Joseph recruited as Ballet Theater's executive director, reported this year that the debt had been eliminated.
        As an art patron, Mr. Joseph had a special interest in hand-crafted furniture by American artists. He founded the Peter Joseph Gallery in Manhattan to sell and exhibit the work, known as studio furniture, of artists he admired. He also established the Peter T. Joseph Programming Endowment for the Furniture Design Department at the Rhode Island School of Design.
        Mr. Joseph's philanthropic interests extended to a variety of causes supported by the Peter T. Joseph Foundation, which recently commissioned an outdoor sculpture by Richard Serra for Princeton University. Mr. Joseph was also on the boards of the Second Stage, a theater company, and Prep for Prep, which supports gifted minority students.
        Mr. Joseph was born in Cincinnati and graduated from Princeton University, from which he received a master's degree in public affairs in 1973. He was assistant editor at New Times Magazine and published ''Good Times: An Oral History of America in the 1960's'' in this period. After graduating from Yale Law School in 1977, he started a tax and corporate practice before becoming a partner in Riordan & Joseph in Los Angeles.
        He was one of two people responsible for investments by a $1 billion high-yield investment fund for the Bass Brothers, Drexel Burnham Lambert and the Equitable Life Assurance Society from 1984 to 1986. From 1986 to 1992 he was associated with the Robert Bass Group. From 1987 until his death he was head of Rosecliff Inc., which managed the capital of a select group of investors. Until 1992, he was managing general partner of Acadia Partners, with responsibility for managing a $1.7 billion portfolio.
        Mr. Joseph is survived by his wife, Wendy Evans Joseph, an architect; a daughter, Danielle Eve, and a son, Nicholas Evan, both of New York City; his mother, Evelyn Joseph, of Cincinnati; two brothers, Thomas, of Cincinnati, and Michael, of Olney, Ill.; and five sisters, Evelyn Joseph of Cincinnati; Mary Nyod and Eleanor Joseph, both of Atlanta; Margaret Joseph of Nashville, Tenn., and Kathleen Reinhart of Dayton, Ohio.
      