
        Charles Korvin, an actor who made a career playing gentleman thieves and philandering husbands, died on June 18 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and had homes in Manhattan and Klosters, Switzerland.
        Mr. Korvin, whose original name was Geza Karpathi, was born in Piestany, Hungary. He was educated at the Sorbonne in Paris, where he remained for 10 years as a still and motion picture photographer, directing the documentary film ''Heart of Spain'' for CBC Canada in 1937.
        He moved to the United States in 1940 and studied acting at the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va., before making his Broadway debut in ''Dark Eyes'' in 1943 under the name Geza Korvin.
        After seeing him in that role, the producer Charles K. Feldman sized up the actor as star material and took him to Hollywood, where he became a contract player for Universal Studios.
        With his chiseled good looks and  Continental charm, he adopted the name Charles Korvin and made his film debut in 1945 in ''Enter Arsene Lupin'' as a dashing French thief.
        He was then paired romantically with Merle Oberon in three films: ''This Love of Ours,'' ''Temptation'' and ''Berlin Express.''
        In 1947, Universal suspended Mr. Korvin's salary after he refused the role of a villain in ''Black Velvet.'' He continued to work independently for studios including Columbia, Paramount and 20th Century Fox.
        Mr. Korvin was blacklisted around 1951 for refusing to cooperate with the House Committee on Un-American Activities, his family said.
        He did not work in Hollywood for 10 years, until the director Stanley Kramer invited him to be in his 1965 film ''Ship of Fools,'' with Vivien Leigh, Simone Signoret and Lee Marvin.
        During this period, he continued to work in television and appeared on ''Playhouse 90,'' ''U.S. Steel Hour,'' ''Zorro,'' ''I Spy'' and ''Holocaust,'' as well as on an episode of ''The Honeymooners,'' in which he played Carlos the Latin dance instructor.
        Mr. Korvin is survived by his wife, Natasha; a daughter, Katherine Pers of Budapest; a son, Edward Danziger Korvin of Santa Monica, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      