
        Mark H. Harrington, a television news executive who managed to get MSNBC, the 24-hour news cable station, up and operating in six months and who directed the CBS News coverage of major events like Presidential conventions and the Olympics, died at his home in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 51.
        The cause was melanoma, said  Andrew Lack, president of NBC News.
        Mr. Harrington never shared the dream of most young television journalists: to stand in front of a camera and report the news to millions of viewers. From the beginning, he preferred the role of orchestra conductor, overseeing the myriad details of producing a news program out of the audience's sight.
        ''He would pull the strands together so seamlessly that people would forget he was involved,'' said Howard Stringer, president of the Sony  Corporation of America and former president of CBS. ''He was the ultimate collaborator, and almost English in shunning the spotlight.''
        Mr. Harrington began pulling together strands of major projects as an undergraduate at Harvard, where he managed the crew of collegiate oarsmen who rowed in the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. After receiving a master's degree in journalism at Columbia University, he became CBS News's whiz kid of the early 1970's, producing live news specials for Walter Cronkite and Dan Rather. He would sit off camera a few feet below the anchor with a pile of index cards he had compiled, which were crammed with facts, figures and historical anecdotes.
        At 27, he won an Emmy Award for ''The Watergate Transcripts,'' a special program he produced in 1974 on the incriminating tapes from President Nixon's Oval Office. He subsequently became producer of the ''CBS Evening News,'' with Walter Cronkite and later Dan Rather; the London Bureau chief, and a vice president in charge of overseeing the network's coverage of the Winter Olympics in Albertville, France, in 1992 and Lillehammer, Norway, two years later.
        Mr. Harrington is survived by his wife, Kyle Good, a freelance television producer and director, and a son, David.
        He did not hesitate to correct the British news gatherers' grammar, ignoring their irritation that he, an American, would criticize their speech. But as a journalist, he interviewed people from around the world, easily and without judgment. As London bureau chief, he encouraged investigations into police corruption and soccer hooliganism, which became major issues.
        The startup of MSNBC in July 1996  was probably the largest and most  pressured job in a career of big deadline projects. As vice president and general manager, Mr. Harrington  was given six months to create a round-the-clock news service from scratch, the first station to compete with CNN in the coverage of live, breaking news. In that time he had to  find and hire 400 employees, develop 120 hours of weekly programming  and oversee the opening of two headquarters: a temporary one in Fort Lee, N.J. and a permanent one in Secaucus, N.J.
        ''Even under deadline pressure, he was courteous and understated, expressing disagreement with the raise of an eyebrow or a quiet, 'I'm not sure I'd say that,' '' Mr. Rather said.  ''He had a definite sense of what was right.''
      