
        Harrel Gordon Tillman, a Methodist minister who also pursued careers in acting and broadcasting before he turned to the law and became the first black judge in Texas, died on June 19 at the hospice of Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, said a niece, Jane Tillman Irving of New York.
        Mr. Tillman, who practiced law in Houston for some 30 years, was admitted to the Texas bar in 1962. In 1964 Houston's Mayor, Louie Welch, named him to the municipal court, making Mr. Tillman the first black judge to sit in Texas at any level. He left the bench in the late 1960's to attend to his private practice full time.
        Mr. Tillman had a rich, commanding baritone voice that stood him in good stead in court, as well as on the pulpit and at the microphone, on stage and before the cameras.
        Mr. Tillman, a native of Philadelphia, graduated from Livingstone College in North Carolina. After serving in the Army, he tried his luck as a repertory stage actor in New York and, in the late 40's, appeared in several motion pictures produced by blacks with all-black casts. Among them were ''That Man of Mine,'' in which he shared top billing with Ruby Dee, and ''Love in Syncopation.''
        Deciding that Hollywood was not ready for handsome black romantic leads, Mr. Tillman followed his father's path in the early 50's and was ordained a minister in the A.M.E. Zion Church. He served as assistant pastor of the Church on the Hill A.M.E. Zion in Harlem until the denomination transferred him to Houston.
        He founded Walls Chapel A.M.E. there and served as its pastor for 15 years.
        During that period he was also heard on two local radio stations, leading a gospel music program and serving as the host of a talk show.
        During his career as a lawyer, Mr. Tillman served as general counsel for the Texas Joint Legislative Committee on Prison Reform, as director of the Houston Legal Foundation and as a delegate to the state Democratic Party convention. He ran for Congress, unsuccessfully, in 1978 and 1982.
        In addition to his niece, Mr. Tillman is survived by two daughters, Reba Tillman-Huff of Houston and Judith Hickman of Atlanta; a son, Harrel G. Jr. of Houston; two sisters, Sophie T. Irving and Jerusha T. McMurray, both of Manhattan; and two grandsons. His marriages to the former Daisy DeLeon Hannah and Jean LaBrie ended in divorce.
      