
        Alioune Blondin Beye, a United Nations envoy on a diplomatic mission aimed at averting renewed bloodshed in Angola, was apparently killed on Friday night in the crash of a light plane near Abidjan, the capital of the Ivory Coast. He was 59 and was based in Lusaka, Zambia.
        The authorities at the crash scene yesterday did not make official identification of the remains found by a search team near the wreckage of the plane, a chartered twin-turboprop Beechcraft 200, which went down in an area of forests and mangrove swamps.
        But searchers found passports belonging to Mr. Beye, a Malian, and others who had been on the plane. Reuters reported that the plane had been flying from Togo to Abidjan carrying Mr. Beye and five other members of the United Nations observer mission in Angola. It also had three crew members on board, officials in Togo said.
        A United Nations spokeswoman in New York, Judith Modeste, said yesterday: ''The rescue team reached the site of the crash, collected the passports, but there was no evidence of survivors. They have called off the rescue efforts for today and will continue on Monday.''
        On Saturday, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations said Mr. Beye had been ''traveling in the region in yet another attempt to seek support of African leaders in overcoming the present crisis'' over the agreement that ended Angola's long civil war.
        A former Foreign Minister of Mali, Mr. Beye was a highly regarded lawyer, diplomat and political figure, known for his energy and quick-wittedness. In 1993 he was designated by Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Mr. Annan's predecessor as Secretary General, as his special representative for Angola.
        Mr. Beye began mediating efforts toward peace between Angolan rebels and the Angolan Government. He oversaw the negotiations that led to a 1994 peace agreement under which the rebel group known as the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, agreed to yield control of the large area it had taken over during Angola's more than two decades of intermittent civil war.
        But the rebel group has lagged in carrying out its obligations under the pact, and last month Mr. Beye threatened to quit his envoy's post. He contended that neither Unita nor the Angolan Government possessed the ''political will'' necessary to see peace efforts through to conclusion.
        Before being named as a United Nations envoy, Mr. Beye held various posts. He was Mali's Minister of Youth, Sports, Arts and Culture in 1977 before serving as Foreign Minister from 1978 to 1986. He was legal counsel to the President of Mali from 1986 to 1988, and in subsequent years he was Secretary General of the African Development Bank in Abidjan and the head of its legal department.
        He lectured on international public law at the University of Dijon, France, and was a member of the Dijon bar. He was also a professor at the National School of Administration in Bamako, Mali, and appeared in Malian courts as chief of the Government legal department.
        He was married and had four children.
      