
        Rex Applegate, a member of the storied O.S.S. who taught fellow intelligence officers how to kill an enemy quickly, and preferably silently, in face-to-face combat during World War II, died on July 14 in the University of California at San Diego Medical Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Scottsburg, Ore.
        Mr. Applegate, who advised police agencies on riot control and pistol-firing techniques in a second, peacetime career, suffered a heart attack and stroke while at a conference of California law-enforcement officers at which he was to be the keynote speaker, said his wife, Carole.
        When he joined the military police with a lieutenant's commission after graduating from the University of Oregon in 1939, Mr. Applegate was already a formidable presence. He was 6 feet 3 inches tall, 230 pounds and an expert marksman, having been tutored by an uncle who gave target-shooting exhibitions.
        Col. William (Wild Bill) Donovan, head of the Office of Strategic Services, the espionage and sabotage unit that preceded the Central Intelligence Agency, summoned him early in 1942 as he was putting the new agency into place. As Mr. Applegate recalled it, Colonel Donovan ''reached in his desk, pulled out $50,000 in cash and handed it to me.''  The colonel sent him to a remote site near Thurmont, Md., where he was to help build a training camp for intelligence officers.
        Lieutenant Applegate coordinated instruction at the camp in hand-to-hand combat, knife fighting and pistol firing.
        He later went to England to train with British commandos and he participated in their reconnaissance missions into German-occupied Europe. When he returned to the Maryland camp, President Franklin D. Roosevelt was using it at times as a retreat. Lieutenant Applegate served as one of his bodyguards, assisting the Secret Service. In an interview with The Register-Guard of Eugene, Ore., in 1986, he described a heated argument the President had had with Winston Churchill in a meeting at the camp. ''I asked the Secret Service guys what I was supposed to do if Churchill hit him,'' Mr. Applegate remembered. ''They told me to let 'em duke it out.''
        That O.S.S. camp, called simply Area B, became the Presidential retreat known first as Shangri-La and then as Camp David.
        Because of a lung ailment, Lieutenant Applegate could not be sent into combat, so he was transferred to Camp Ritchie, Md., where he developed close-quarter combat training for Army intelligence officers and other kinds of training.
        In 1943, he wrote a book about his techniques, ''Kill or Be Killed'' (Military Service Publishing Company). This was a manual -- complete with how-to illustrations -- that drew on the philosophy, as he put it, ''Do unto others as they would do unto you, but do it first.''
        In a review for The New York Times, S. T. Williamson wrote that the book was ''certain to curl the hair, and delicate sensibilities cannot remain delicate long.''
        Emphasizing ''speed and ruthlessness,'' the author, now a Major, told how to dispose of an enemy with blows and kicks to vulnerable areas, a thumb to the eye and a variety of strangling techniques. In his section ''killing an enemy sentry,'' he advised: ''Approach from the rear, grasp the nose and mouth with the left hand to prevent outcry, and thrust the knife into the kidney area. After a short interval, withdraw the knife and cut the throat.''
        After retiring from the Army as a lieutenant colonel at the end of World War II, Mr. Applegate spent almost two decades in Mexico, acting as a riot-control consultant to Latin American governments. He returned to the United States in the 1960's, a time of widespread urban riots, and began advising the armed forces and police agencies on riot-control techniques and weaponry.
        In a 1964 edition of his book, retitled ''Crowd and Riot Control'' (The Stackpole Company), Mr. Applegate added chapters on how to deal with civil disturbances. He advised authorities to ''be firm, yet friendly,'' to ''show impartiality by act and word,'' and ''always face the crowd and keep it at a distance.'' Only if those tactics didn't work did he counsel aggressive measures.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters from previous marriages, Shannon Applegate, of Yoncalla, and Lisha Allen Garcia, of Yuma, Ariz.; a half-sister, Paula Hebard; eight grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Applegate -- a knife and gun collector -- marketed the Applegate-Fairbairn Combat Knife, originally designed by a British commando, W. E. Fairbairn, with whom he had trained. Mr. Applegate said that the knife became a personal weapon of choice for many members of special forces units. He also patented a riot baton. And well into what would be retirement years for others, publishers of books with military themes often sent manuscripts to him for evaluation.
        As he put it then: ''I plan to stay busy until it's time to go to that big combat range in the sky.''
      