
        Roland (Tiny) Rowland, the British business tycoon labeled ''the unacceptable face of capitalism'' by Prime Minister Edward Heath in the 1970's but hailed by Nelson Mandela as a friend of Africa, died on Saturday in London, The Observer reported today. He was 80.
        Mr. Rowland had been suffering from skin cancer. He became ill and was taken to a hospital while on a vacation in the Mediterranean with his family, the newspaper said. Friends were quoted as saying he had been transferred to a London clinic, where he died.
        Mr. Rowland's fame in the business world began when, at the age of 30, he went to Rhodesia to run the London and Rhodesian Mining Company. He transformed the obscure colonial farming and mining company into a vast empire, the Lonhro Group, which controlled automobile franchises, sugar plantations and oil pipelines across Africa.
        He was born in a British detention camp in India in 1917 to a German father and an English mother. His parents were refused entry to England and went to Hamburg after World War I. As he grew into a tall youth with an aggressive manner, he acquired the nickname Tiny, and it stuck to him.
        The family returned to India in 1935, and his father, who greatly admired Britain and loathed Hitler, sent his son to boarding school in Britain. The family was eventually allowed into the country. Mr. Rowland left school at age 18 to join an export company and then the family's firm, which dealt in shipping contracts.
        The family remained split between Germany and Britain. His elder brother, Raimund, served in the German Army during World War II, while Roland joined the British Army.
        In the years after he went to Africa, he made friends with, and cultivated, many of the men who eventually led their nations in the era that followed the end of colonization. He reaped major benefits in contracts and business because of his ties.
        Over the years, he became embroiled in dozens of clashes with his directors and other shareholders, though, over his management style and his liberal use of slush funds. He survived several attempts to oust him, which earned him Mr. Heath's unflattering description in 1973. That year, during a boardroom revolt, eight directors took him to court, saying he was unfit to run a public company.
        He prevailed time and again, continuing to run the international trading group for three decades. He was finally toppled in another fierce boardroom battle in March 1995 by the German financier Dieter Bock.
        What got the best of him was a recession and the company's mounting debts. Lonhro was forced to dispose of major holdings to obtain cash and finally undertook a refinancing that led to the appointment of Mr. Bock as co-chief executive and effectively sidelined Mr. Rowland.
        Even then, Mr. Rowland remained the company's largest private shareholder and tormentor of its existing management.
        Asked to comment on Mr. Rowland's death by The Observer, which Mr. Rowland once owned, Lonhro's vice president, Nicholas Morrell, said, ''We have been fighting Rowland for over five years now, but of the dead, speak nothing but good.''
        It was apparently partly out of sensitivity to the fact that the British establishment never accepted him as a full member despite his enormous success in business that he purchased the weekly Observer in 1981, which he owned for 13 years before selling it to the Guardian Group. He used the paper to attack his enemies and defend his views.
        ''You can never have enough enemies'' was one of the many memorable sayings of Mr. Rowland, a man who elevated feuds to an art form. He took on -- among others -- journalists, individual politicians, Conservative and Labor Governments, businessmen and large conglomerates, including Shell and British Petroleum. He accused the two oil giants of violating the sanctions imposed on the white minority Government of Rhodesia after its unilateral declaration of independence from Britain in 1965.
        He was married and had four children but protected the privacy of his family life with as much vigor as he used to attack his enemies.
        He never said why he was so contentious, or whether it was related to his parents' internment during World War I. But he never played by the British establishment's rules, constantly mocking its traditions and manners. The feeling was mutual.
        In Africa he was viewed as a friend who was never part of the colonizing British establishment. Mr. Rowland was hailed by Mr. Mandela today for making ''an enormous contribution, not only to South Africa but the whole of Africa.''
        The former Zambian President, Kenneth Kaunda, a longtime friend of Mr. Rowland, was quoted by The Observer as saying Mr. Rowland ''was a man full of compassion.''
        In Britain he will best be remembered for his long and bitter feud with Mohamed al-Fayed over ownership of the prestigious department store Harrods. Mr. Rowland coveted the store for many years and was infuriated when Mr. Fayed and his brother outmaneuvered him in buying it. He accused them of lying about the origin of their wealth, leading to an investigation by the British Government. But he was unable to wrest control of Harrod's from the Fayeds, who continue to own and manage it.
        Despite a fleeting reconciliation five years ago, the mutual recriminations continued virtually until Mr. Rowland's death. In the 14-year legal battle, he published several books of documents about the case, one of them about Mr. Fayed titled ''A Hero From Zero.''
        Mr. Fayed has not commented on his death.
      