
        Matteo Manuguerra, a French baritone who was admired for his versatility and dramatic acuity, died in Montpellier, France, on Thursday. He was 73 and lived in Montpellier.
        He died of congestive heart failure three days after a stroke, his manager, Robert Lombardo, said.
        Starting in 1971, when he made his Metropolitan Opera debut as Enrico in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' Mr. Manuguerra appeared regularly at the Met, where he sang 127 performances. Among the 15 roles he sang at the house were Marcello in Puccini's ''Boheme,'' Alfio in Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and several Verdi roles, including Carlo in Verdi's ''Forza del Destino,'' Renato in ''Un Ballo in Maschera,'' Amonasro in ''Aida'' and Germont in ''La Traviata.''
        His performances in the title role of ''Rigoletto'' were particularly noteworthy and had grown increasingly rich over the years.
        Mr. Manuguerra was also a frequent guest of the Opera Orchestra of New York, which presents operatic rarities at Carnegie Hall. He was in the Opera Orchestra's casts for Donizetti's ''Lucrezia Borgia,'' Zandonai's ''Francesca di Rimini,'' Meyerbeer's ''Africaine,'' Verdi's ''Battaglia di Legnano'' and Catalani's ''Wally.'' His last appearance in New York was in the Opera Orchestra's performance of Bellini's ''Straniera'' in 1993.
        Mr. Manuguerra was born in Tunis to Italian parents in October 1924, and later acquired French citizenship. He began his vocal studies after World War II and settled in Argentina, where at the age of 35 he enrolled at the Buenos Aires Conservatory and the Instituto Lirico. He returned to France in 1963 to make his debut at the Lyons Opera as Valentin in Gounod's ''Faust.'' After three years in Lyons he joined the roster of the Paris Opera, where he added ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' ''Rigoletto'' and ''La Traviata'' to his repertory.
        In 1968, Mr. Manuguerra made his American debut as Gerard in Giordano's ''Andrea Chenier'' at the San Francisco Opera. In the United States, Mr. Manuguerra also performed with the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the Dallas Opera, the Houston Grand Opera and the New Orleans Opera. In Europe he made notable appearances at the Vienna Staatsoper, the Arena di Verona and Covent Garden, as well as in Bilbao, Frankfurt, Essen and Bordeaux, and at the Perelada Festival in Montpellier.
        Mr. Manuguerra is survived by his wife, Michelle, two sons, Mathieu and Marc, and a daughter, Marianne.
      