
        Captain Jimmie Albright, a fly-fishing innovator and pioneer who guided and became friends with some of the most celebrated anglers of his time, died of cancer last Sunday in Islamorada, Fla. He was 82.
        Albright invented two knots indispensable to anglers, the nail knot and the Albright special. The nail knot, so named because a penny nail or a small tube is required to tie it, is almost universally used by flyfishers pursuing everything from palm-sized bluegills to tackle-busting tuna. The Albright special, which is used to join two lines of significantly different diameter, has become a standard among salt water anglers, including the special fraternity of anglers who pursue official International Game Fish Association line-class records.
        ''Jimmie Albright was one of the true pioneers of salt-water flyfishing,'' according to the noted professional angler Mark Sosin. ''There's no doubt about it. In Jimmie's time, he and Joe Brooks were the top names in the developing sport.''
        A native of Indiana, Albright moved to Miami in 1935. He originally worked as a lifeguard, but he moonlighted as a mate on an offshore charter boat, an experience that eventually led him to fish with the blue-water fishing enthusiasts Zane Grey and Ernest Hemingway.
        Albright served overseas in the Navy during World War II. Afterwards, he settled with his wife Frankee in Islamorada, a town that has since become a focal point for anglers from all over the world. But at that time, Islamorada had neither electricity nor running fresh water.
        Over the years, Albright guided celebrity anglers such as President Herbert Hoover, the actor Jimmy Stewart and the actress Myrna Loy. But the angler with whom he had the most in common, and with whom he struck up a lasting friendship, was Ted Williams, the baseball legend.
        Both Albright and Williams were less fascinated by the blue water of the offshore canyons than by the shallow flats, mangrove islands and intimate environment of the labyrinthian ''back country,'' the area west of the keys in the Florida bay.
        The two men became friends after Williams had heard that anglers in the keys were catching bonefish on flyfishing tackle. Williams, whose skill as a fly fisherman came to rival his reputation as a hitter (he was the last major leaguer to hit .400), called Albright and booked his first trip. At the time, flyfishing in salt water was so novel a pastime that skeptics, convinced that fish like tarpon and bonefish could not be taken on a fly, accused Albright and Williams of fabricating tales. But the fishing was so fine and challenging that Williams eventually bought homes in the keys.
        ''Jimmie and Ted were a lot alike,'' said Richard Stanczyk, owner of Bud n' Mary's Marina in Islamorada. ''Both of them were competitive, expert, tough and cantankerous. Jimmie had a great sense of humor, but he was also very dedicated and disciplined. He took his guiding seriously, and helped make the industry a legitimate profession.''
        When Albright fell upon hard times late in his life, Williams hired a contractor to put a much-needed new roof on Albright's house. ''When the workmen showed up and rang his bell, Jimmie blew a fit,'' Stanczyk recalled. ''He didn't know that Ted had arranged the whole thing.''
        Albright is survived by his son, Gary Weber, and a granddaughter, Jean Marie Weber. His wife, Frankee, who was an accomplished angler and tropical horticulturalist, died in 1995.
      