
        William McChesney Martin Jr., the chairman of the Federal Reserve for 19 years, spanning five Administrations, from that of Harry S. Truman to Richard M. Nixon, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 91.
        Mr. Martin, a plain-spoken Democrat from Missouri, detested inflation. He once said that the role of the Federal Reserve was ''to take away the punch bowl just when the party gets going.''
        While he was criticized alternately for making credit too easy and too tight, Mr. Martin was known as an honest, responsible man, who often stood up against the political pressures of the executive and legislative branches. And, he retained the confidence of five Presidents, even when he had opposed them.
        Mr. Martin set the course of the nation's monetary policy during an economic golden age. His tenure included the nation's longest economic expansion, from 1961 to 1969. That growth period ended when the central bank was forced to begin raising interest rates to fight the rising inflation that was caused by Government spending during the Vietnam War.
        In one of his most controversial moves, in December 1965, Mr. Martin voted to raise the discount rate -- the rate at which commercial banks borrow from the Fed -- despite President Lyndon B. Johnson's objections. After the vote, he was summoned to Johnson's ranch. He soon emerged to say that the meeting had changed neither man's mind.
        Mr. Martin often verbally battled with his most bitter critic, Representative Wright Patman, a Democrat from Texas, for whom interest rates could never be low enough. But he largely avoided public squabbles and had a knack for stating his gloomy predictions in a pleasant way.
        At the bottom of one economic slump, Mr. Martin warned Congress that you can't ''spend yourself prosperous.''
        Another time, he remarked, ''A perpetual deficit is the road to undermining any currency.''
        In a written statement yesterday, Alan Greenspan, the current chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that Mr. Martin had set a ''masterful example.''
        ''Crucially, Chairman Martin moved the Federal Reserve from being an adjunct of the Treasury Department,'' Mr. Greenspan's statement said, ''to the independent status we know today.''
        In private, Mr. Martin was known as a relaxed, friendly man who had an engaging, boyish grin. He was an avid tennis player, who often played on a court across the street from the headquarters of the Federal Reserve.
        His father, a prominent banker in St. Louis, had helped President Woodrow Wilson draft the Federal Reserve Act that created the central bank in 1913. Later, his father served as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and Mr. Martin followed, working as an examiner at that same bank after his graduation from Yale University with a B.A. in Latin and English.
        After a move to New York, Mr. Martin, at 31, became the first paid president of the New York Stock Exchange -- a position that earned him the nickname of ''boy wonder of Wall Street.''
        In 1941, he left his $48,000-a-year job at the exchange to serve in World War II, where he began earning a salary of $21 a month. He rose to the rank of colonel, serving in several key wartime agencies.
        After the war, Mr. Martin became chairman of the Export-Import Bank and then served as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Truman, a fellow Missourian.
        His 19-year chairmanship of the Fed under both Democratic and Republican Presidents was longer than the term of any other chairman so far.
        When President Truman interviewed him about taking the chairmanship, Mr. Truman recalled that he had bought some Liberty Bonds in the First World War that had later declined in value. ''You wouldn't ever let that happen again, would you?'' the President asked.
        Mr. Martin replied that he wouldn't want it to happen, but unless the Administration followed responsible fiscal and monetary policies, it probably would happen again.
        President John F. Kennedy had told Mr. Martin in 1961 that most of the Kennedy advisers wanted a new Fed chairman and questioned him closely about whether he intended to ''flaunt'' the independence of the Fed. In the end, Mr. Kennedy asked him to stay on and explained that he did so because ''responsible men'' were not easy to find.
        A similar conversation occurred early in President Johnson's Administration, with the President telling Mr. Martin that he wanted low interest rates all the time. The chairman replied that he would have to get another man to achieve that.
        Mr. Martin stepped down from the central bank in January 1970. He then served on the board for many corporations and nonprofit organizations, including I.B.M., American Express and the National Geographic Society. For many years, he worked as a lawyer for Riggs National Bank in Washington. He also served as president of the National Tennis Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, Cynthia Davis Martin; two daughters, Diana Martin of Washington and Cynthia Martin Ghenea of Portland, Me.; a son, William McChesney Martin 3d of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1985, Mr. Martin said there was much double talk in most discussions about monetary policy, which ranks as one of Washington's most arcane subjects.
        When he took office, Mr. Martin said he had told himself: ''My gracious, here I am the new chairman of the Fed, and I'm doing my best -- I'm not the brightest fellow in the world but I'm working hard on this -- and I haven't the faintest idea of how you figure the money supply. Yet everybody thinks I have it at my fingertips.
        ''They don't really know what the money supply is now, even today,'' Mr. Martin continued. ''They print some figures -- I'm not trying to make fun of it -- but a lot of it is just almost superstition.''
      