
        Zbigniew Herbert, the Polish poet and essayist who insisted that civilization depended on artists' staking out clear moral positions resistant to the winds of history and ideology, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 73.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, but a longtime friend and fellow poet, Krzysztof Karasek, said Mr. Herbert had asthma and serious circulatory problems.
        The Polish poet Wislawa Szymborska, the 1996 Nobel laureate, told the PAP news agency that Mr. Herbert was a ''great artist and thinker'' and that he would have an eternal place in Polish literature.
        Mr. Herbert's poetry defied categorization. It spoke for no philosophy or school and favored no party or dogma. Although he was a political poet who explored the mechanisms of power and ideology, he resisted Fascism and Communism, nationalism and the church and was willing to pay the price of such moral independence. He gave the impression of being a man alone, answerable to no one except his own conscience.
        Place and history determined Mr. Herbert's career as a poet. He lived much of his adult life under the ideologies of National Socialism and Communism. The impingement of the political, the political becoming personal, informed all of his work.
        To the chaos of the 20th century, to which he was a personal witness, Mr. Herbert brought a mind trained in law and disciplined by classical literature. It was a mind that would not succumb to self-pity or nostalgia, a mind steeled against chaos.
        In ''Pebble,'' one of his best-known poems, he wrote:
        Pebbles cannot be tamed
        to the end they will look at us
        with a calm and very clear eye
        Those lines could describe his stance as a writer. The poet Robert Hass once said that Mr. Herbert wrote as if it were ''the task of the poet, in a world full of loud lies, to say what is irreducibly true in a level voice.''
        Mr. Herbert was born in the city of Lvov, then part of Poland and now in Ukraine, in 1924. (The name Herbert is pronounced as in English; in fact, Mr. Herbert claimed the 17th-century English poet George Herbert as a distant relation.) In 1939, as a 15-year-old, he experienced the annexation of his hometown by the Soviet Union. When the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact collapsed, the city was then seized by the Germans. At the end of the war it was recaptured by the Soviet Union, which retained control over the Baltic republics.
        Mr. Herbert wrote his first poems during the Nazi occupation of Poland. As Stanislaw Baranczak, a critic who teaches at Harvard University, has observed, ''The image of a city under siege, one of the several symbols that constantly recur in his work, has a historical poignancy that makes it much more than just a figure of speech.''
        Mr. Herbert took part in the Polish resistance to the Nazi occupiers. When the war ended, he enrolled at the University of Cracow, where he received a master's degree in economics. Later he earned a law degree from Nicolas Copernicus University and a degree in philosophy from the University of Warsaw.
        Stalinist restrictions on writers after the war and Mr. Herbert's refusal to bend to Communist dogma and the party functionaries in the Writers' Union impeded the publication of his poetry for 15 years. During that period he developed his distinctive voice, a style, as the author Eva Hoffman has written, ''that functions as a sort of antidote to the dangers of sentimentality or inflation -- restrained, ironic, stripped of punctuation, averse to 'tricks of the imagination' and passionate in its insistence on precision.''
        His first three volumes of poetry, ''A String of Light'' (1956), ''Hermes, a Dog and a Star'' (1957) and ''The Study of an Object'' (1961), established him as a dominant figure in Polish literature. His search for moral and humanistic values would make a strong impression on his contemporaries and earn him an international audience.
        Many poems in those books also appear in the volumes of his poetry available in English: ''Selected Poems,'' translated by Czeslaw Milosz and Peter Dale Scott (Ecco Press, 1986); ''Selected Poems'' (Oxford Press, 1977), translated by John and Bodgana Carpenter; ''Report From the Besieged City,'' translated by the Carpenters (Ecco Press, 1985), and ''Mr. Cogito,'' also translated by the Carpenters (Ecco Press, 1993).
        Mr. Herbert was a modernist in that he wrote in free form, without rhyme and meter. He was an antimodernist in that his work frequently jumped off from Greek myth, Shakespeare and the Latin poets, and in his refusal to ape chaos. In an essay in praise of the great Dutch painters of the 17th century, he explained, ''A major part of contemporary art declares itself on the side of chaos, gesticulates in a void, or tells the story of its own barren soul.''
        Against this attitude, he posed the painters of that period in the Netherlands, who ''believed in the purposefulness of their work and the possibility of interhuman communication. They affirmed visible reality with an inspired scrupulousness.'' And they did that, he asserted, ''as if the order of the world and the revolution of the stars, the permanence of the firmament, depended on it.''
        Yet there is nothing in Mr. Herbert's poetry to suggest that a traditional, conventional art, one imitating the art of the past, could carry today's meanings. On the contrary, in one of his strongest poems, ''Apollo and Marsyas,'' he describes how pain can dictate a new art. Marsyas, a mortal in the myth on which the poem is based, loses a musical contest to Apollo, the Greek god of beauty, who signifies classical control (''absolute ear/versus immense range''). Apollo punishes Marsyas for daring to challenge his authority by flaying him alive. Describing Marsyas's pain, Mr. Herbert writes:
        only seemingly
        is the voice of Marsyas
        monotonous
        and composed of a single vowel
        Aaa
        in reality
        Marsyas relates
        the inexhaustible wealth
        of his body
        bald mountains of liver
        white ravines of aliment
        As Apollo departs to that sound, he wonders ''whether out of Marsyas's howling/there will not someday arise/a new kind/ of art . . . ''
        And to describe the effect of that art, Mr. Herbert writes:
        suddenly
        at his feet
        falls a petrified nightingale
        he looks back
        and sees that the hair of the tree to which
        Marsyas was fastened
        is white
        completely
        And so the poem ends, moving the myth completely into the 20th century. The pared-down rhetoric, its terse description, is classical (seen with Apollo's eye) but the poem is savage, because it was written in a savage time and because its author believed that art must find a way to reconcile beauty with the reality of human suffering.
        Mr. Herbert's stark rhetoric is more than a stylistic characteristic. It signals a moral concern, openly stated in many of his poems, that the path to such reconciliation is to see the world clearly, steadily, with an eye toward understanding it and then writing about it truthfully. His poem ''Mr. Cogito and the Imagination,'' for example, begins:
        Mr. Cogito never trusted
        tricks of the imagination
        the piano at the top of the Alps
        played false concerts for him
        (He took ''the piano at the top of the Alps'' from Rimbaud's ''Illuminations,'' a source of the surreal in modern art.)
        Later in the poem Mr. Herbert focuses on his theme:
        he adored tautologies
        explanations
        idem per idem
        that a bird is a bird
        slavery means slavery
        a knife is a knife
        death remains death
        Mr. Cogito inhabits many of the poems, a character in search of moral certainties. He is an ordinary man who enjoys reading trashy newspaper stories and who fails when he tries transcendental meditation: ''his stream of consciousness brings up detritus like a tin can.'' He is Mr. Herbert's mouthpiece, a way of distancing himself from himself.
        In the Cogito poems Mr. Herbert became his own subject, but they are not confessional poems in the tradition of Robert Lowell, Sylvia Plath and Anne Sexton. They do not dramatize the ego; they dramatize a mind and the way it looks at the world. Ultimately, they return us to the world, as do all of his poems, and the search for what is durable in our lives, for what is attainable.
        In ''The Envoy of Mr. Cogito,'' he appears to be looking back on his life in Poland during the long years of war and repression. It begins:
        Go where those others went to the  dark boundary
        for the golden fleece of nothing-  ness your last prize
        go upright among those who are
        on their knees
        among those with their backs
        turned and those toppled in the
        dust
        you were saved not in order to live
        you have little time you must give testimony
        Mr. Herbert was co-editor of a poetry journal, Poezja, from 1965 to 1968 but resigned in protest of anti-Semitic policies. He traveled widely through the West and lived in Paris, Berlin and the United States, where he taught briefly at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        His essay collection ''Barbarian in the Garden,'' translated by Michael March and Jaroslaw Anders (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1985), depicts the poet as a barbarian from the Slavic world traveling through the ''garden'' countries of Western Europe.
        After a break of several years from writing, Mr. Herbert, who is survived by his wife, Katarzyna, wrote new poems in 1997 when his health improved slightly. The result was ''Storm's Epilogue,'' published this year.
        Mr. Herbert once gave this advice to younger writers: ''Life is more complicated, more mysterious and more convoluted than the party, the army, the police. Let us detach ourselves a little from this truly horrible everyday reality and try to write about doubt, anxiety and despair.''
        A Clear Eye on the World
        The pebble
        is a perfect creature
        equal to itself
        mindful of its limits
        filled exactly
        with a pebbly meaning
        with a scent which does not remind one of anything
        does not frighten anything away
        does not arouse desire
        its ardor and coldness
        are just and full of dignity
        I feel a heavy remorse
        when I hold it in my hand
        and its noble body
        is permeated by false warmth
        -- Pebbles cannot be tamed
        to the end they will look at us
        with a calm and very clear eye
        ''Pebble'' (''Selected Poems,'' Ecco Press, 1986, translated from the Polish by Czeslaw Milosz and Peter Dale Scott)
        1
        in the fourth book of the Peloponnesian War
        Thucydides tells among other things
        the story of his unsuccessful expedition
        among long speeches of chiefs
        battles sieges plague
        dense net of intrigues of diplomatic endeavors
        the episode is like a pin
        in a forest
        the Greek colony Amphipolis
        fell into the hands of Brasidos
        because Thucydides was late with relief
        for this he paid his native city
        with lifelong exile
        exiles of all times
        know what price that is
        2
        generals of the most recent wars
        if a similar affair happens to them
        whine on their knees before posterity
        praise their heroism and innocence
        they accuse their subordinates
        envious colleagues
        unfavorable winds
        Thucydides says only
        that he had seven ships
        it was winter
        and he sailed quickly
        3
        if art for its subject
        will have a broken jar
        a small broken soul
        with a great self-pity
        what will remain after us
        will be like lovers' weeping
        in a small dirty hotel
        when wallpaper dawns
        ''Why the Classics'' (''Selected Poems'')
        In paradise the work week is fixed at 30 hours
        salaries are higher prices steadily go down
        manual labor is not tiring (because of reduced gravity)
        chopping wood is no harder than typing
        the social system is stable and the rulers are wise
        really in paradise one is better off than in whatever country
        At first it was to have been different
        luminous circles choirs and degrees of abstraction
        but they were not able to separate exactly
        the soul from the flesh and so it would come here
        with a drop of fat a thread of muscle
        it was necessary to face the consequences
        to mix a grain of the absolute with a grain of clay
        one more departure from doctrine the last departure
        only John foresaw it: you will be resurrected in the flesh
        not many behold God
        he is only for those of 100 percent pneuma
        the rest listen to communiques about miracles and floods
        someday God will be seen by all
        when it will happen nobody knows
        As it is now every Saturday at noon
        sirens sweetly bellow
        and from the factories go the heavenly proletarians
        awkwardly under their arms they carry their wings like violins
        ''Report From Paradise'' (''Selected Poems'')
      