
        Jerome Robbins, who simultaneously became one of 20th-century ballet's greatest choreographers and a towering innovator in Broadway musicals, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79.
        Mr. Robbins suffered a stroke at home on Saturday and lapsed into a coma at New York Hospital, said  Deborah Koolish of the New York City Ballet. He was taken home on Monday.
        Mr. Robbins helped to shape the  City Ballet's creative profile with daring and brio for half a century through his often startling, always experimental choreography in ballet's classical idiom.
        At the same time, he enjoyed phenomenal success on Broadway. From 1944 to 1964, Mr. Robbins's golden touch was evident in musicals as disparate as ''On the Town,'' ''The King and I,'' ''Gypsy,'' ''West Side Story'' and ''Fiddler on the Roof.''
        For all his acclaim on Broadway, Mr. Robbins made it clear that his first love was dance, and ballet in particular. He returned to the commercial theater briefly in 1989 with ''Jerome Robbins's Broadway,'' but even this hit was an anthology of dance sequences from past shows.
        Mr. Robbins's association with the City Ballet began when George Balanchine, its artistic director, invited him to join the company at its founding in 1948. Balanchine named him associate artistic director the next year. After Balanchine's death in 1983, he and Peter Martins served jointly until 1990 as the company's artistic directors.
        ''Dance is about relationships,'' Mr. Robbins said. Attached to this credo, he imbued his ballets, no matter how plotless, with human insights and emotions that had a universal resonance. Above all, he was a very American choreographer who knew how to distill the spirit of his time. But unlike others who created ballets with pioneers and cowboys, Mr. Robbins did not indulge in ''Americana.'' He was not concerned with the myth of America but with its reality.
        This genius for capturing the essence of an age was the Robbins signature. It could be sensationally overt in a landmark Robbins musical like ''West Side Story,'' with its indelible images of 1950's gang rumbles. But the same gift was even more vividly expressed in any Robbins ballet, beginning with ''Fancy Free,'' an evergreen masterpiece about three sailors on the town during World War II. Starting out in Ballet Theater, now American Ballet Theater, Mr. Robbins created ''Fancy Free'' in 1944 as his first ballet. The score was by a fellow unknown, Leonard Bernstein.
        An Abstract Thinker Attuned to the Present
        As the years went by, the choreographer said that he was more interested in a world ''where things are not named,'' and his exploration of ballet's classical idiom became more abstract and profound. Nonetheless, he never lost sight of the pulse of his times. In the epic ballets he created to music by Chopin and Bach, he  extended technical virtuosity and the art of partnering but also defined contemporary encounters. Alienation was a favorite Robbins theme, restated in works as different as ''The Cage,'' an early masterpiece; ''Moves,'' a ballet without music; the impressionistic ''Ives, Songs,'' and cool, classical essays like ''Glass Pieces.''
        Mr. Robbins's artistic voice was distinctly his own, dazzling in its originality. Remarkably, and unlike other choreographers, he never seemed to repeat himself, especially in his 66 ballets. The same was true to a lesser degree in the 15 Broadway musicals he choreographed and occasionally directed (he was also production supervisor for ''Funny Girl'').
        Mr. Robbins's inventiveness, in both ballet and musicals, stemmed in large part from his willingness to mix disparate theatrical elements. In 1945, while still in Ballet Theater, he wrote that his vision of classical ballet encompassed a ''combination with other theater forms in order to experiment and achieve a wider horizon.''
        On Broadway, he introduced conventions from ballet and vernacular dance styles. A Robbins show was a model of integration, driven especially by the idea that dancing, like words and music, could carry the story forward. Descended from the innovators of 18th-century ballet d'action, Mr. Robbins never saw dance as just a divertissement.
        In the same vein, his works for ballet companies were usually essays in dramatized emotion, as seen in ''Afternoon of a Faun'' and ''The Cage,'' two provocative studies of male-female relations that became Robbins classics. Even his 1969 Chopin masterwork, ''Dances at a Gathering,'' was, for all its plotlessness, a study of a community.
        The theatrical appeal of Mr. Robbins's ballets was quickly recognized by Balanchine, and Mr. Robbins was as responsible as Balanchine in establishing the City Ballet's early reputation. The crucial role that he played in the City Ballet's initial success was recalled in 1988 by Todd Bolender, a former choreographer and principal dancer in the company: ''Jerry was a great incentive for Balanchine, contributing an American dance creativity in his ballets that was of great importance to our early 1950's tours, especially in Europe, where the Robbins ballets had an explosive effect.''
        Success Came Early; Failure Was Anathema
        Failure was, in fact, anathema to Mr. Robbins. Often abrasive in his demands on both Broadway and in ballet, he ruthlessly drove his collaborators, including actors and dancers, to extend themselves beyond their own expectations. An emotional person who was known as something of a prankster in his early career, Mr. Robbins, trim and white-bearded as time went by, eventually acquired a solemn, patriarchal air. But anyone who knew Mr. Robbins knew him as the ultimate perfectionist; he cast himself aptly as a whip-cracking ringmaster in ''Circus Polka,'' a witty piece he created for the City Ballet's Stravinsky Festival in 1972. Here as well, he declared that his primary allegiance was to ballet.
        After 1964, show business ceased to interest him as a serious endeavor. Rightly, he sensed that whatever his success on Broadway, his eventual reputation would rest on his enduring ballets. It was this output that made him the first major American-born classical choreographer and a member of the 20th-century ballet pantheon that included Balanchine, Sir Frederick Ashton, Michel Fokine and Antony Tudor.
        Jerome Robbins was born to Harry and Lena Rabinowitz on Oct. 11, 1918, in New York City. He and his parents changed the family name legally in the 1940's.
        Success came early to Mr. Robbins. At the age of 3, he played the piano in a public children's concert. Mr. Rabinowitz operated a delicatessen, and with his wife, offered Jerome and his older sister, Sonia, a breadth of cultural opportunities. ''I grew up in the Jewish tradition that children must get all the culture possible,'' Mr. Robbins said in 1979.
        When his father went into corset manufacturing in Union City, N.J., the family moved to nearby Weehawken, where Mr. Robbins graduated from Woodrow Wilson High School in 1935. Although he entered New York University, planning to major in chemistry, he left in a year because of a slump in his father's business. But by that time, Mr. Robbins had also taken lessons with his sister's modern-dance teachers, Gluck Sandor and Felicia Sorel, who directed the Dance Center in Manhattan.
        Sandor, whom Mr. Robbins later called his ''guru,'' attracted considerable attention with his experimental productions. These included ''Petrouchka,'' with Constructivist costumes by Vincente Minnelli.
        Sandor also worked with theatrical companies, and it was in ''The Brothers Ashkenazi,'' a 1937 Yiddish Art Theater production, that Mr. Robbins made his professional debut with a two-word walk-on role.
        Many of the tenets crucial to Mr. Robbins's future success might be traced to the influence of the Dance Center. Sandor impressed him most, he said, with ''an imagination that evolved a different style for every production.'' The Robbins gift for establishing immediate audience contact stemmed from these early years. ''We dancers were taught to perform with the concentration of actors,'' the choreographer said, explaining that this meant ''the centering of everything to pull the viewers into the performance.''
        Modern dance, not ballet, was dominant in the 1930's, and no American ballet troupes independent of opera houses managed to survive. But Sandor told his student: ''Study ballet. It's going to come back.'' Mr. Robbins immersed himself in ballet classes with Ella Daganova. He also studied Spanish dancing with Helene Veola, oriental dance with Nimura, interpretive dancing with his sister and Alyce Bentley and choreography with Bessie Schonberg at the New Dance League.
        From the Poconos To a Broadway Chorus
        Although ''Fancy Free'' was his first work for a ballet company, Mr. Robbins had started choreographing while performing in summer shows at Lake Tamiment, a Poconos resort in Bushkill, Pa., that served as an incubator for rising talent like Danny Kaye and Imogene Coca. The dancers there ranged from members of Martha Graham's company like Dorothy Bird and Anita Alvarez to Balanchine disciples like Ruthanna Boris. ''Jerry was considered to be a modern dancer at that time, although he was deeply committed to ballet,'' Miss Bird recalled in 1980.
        Mr. Robbins's choreography at Tamiment included a duet for himself and Miss Alvarez set to ''Strange Fruit,'' Billie Holiday's recording of Lewis Allen's song about lynchings. Named after the song, the work displayed the political commitment then common in modern dance. Like-minded Robbins pieces, later seen in New York, were ''Incident in Harlem'' and ''Death of a Loyalist.''
        Mr. Robbins also created a dance version of ''Our Town'' that was incorporated into ''The Straw Hat Revue,'' which Max Leibman, Tamiment's entertainment director, and the Shubert Organization brought to New York in 1939. The show introduced Mr. Kaye to Broadway and was in fact Mr. Robbins's Broadway choreographic debut although he received no credit.
        Along the way, Mr. Robbins danced in the chorus of four musicals. Some, including ''Keep Off the Grass'' in 1939, were choreographed by Balanchine, then bereft of a ballet company.
        Mr. Robbins joined Ballet Theater only in its second season in 1940-41. Although not primarily remembered today as a dancer, he left an impact on many who saw him perform at Ballet Theater and in his own and Balanchine's works at the City Ballet. Mr. Robbins retired from dancing in 1952, although he later appeared in cameo roles at the City Ballet.
        While at Ballet Theater and in his early years on Broadway, Mr. Robbins was also politically active. When called before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in May 1953, the choreographer said he had belonged to the American Communist Party's Theatrical Transient Group between 1943 and 1947. Many in the arts never forgave Mr. Robbins for naming eight colleagues as members of the group. Representative Harold H. Velde, an Illinois Republican who was chairman of the  committee, praised Mr. Robbins for his testimony, which the choreographer justified on the ground that he had made ''a great mistake in joining the Communist Party.''
        At the time of his testimony, Mr. Robbins had already choreographed hits like ''On the Town,'' ''Call Me Madam'' and ''The King and I.'' His Broadway career was at stake: had he not cooperated with the panel, he risked being blacklisted in the entertainment industry, as were many who refused to testify or to inform on others.
        Sympathy for the Soviet Union was nonetheless common when that nation and the United States were allies in World War II. A more universal statement about that period came from Mr. Robbins in ''Fancy Free.'' A shrewd, warm and idiomatic picture of young people in 1944, ''Fancy Free'' offered something new in ballet: ''The revelation of democratic human relationships,'' as George Amberg wrote in his book, ''Ballet in America'' (1947).
        The same writer saw Mr. Robbins's next and equally enduring ballet, ''Interplay'' (1945), as proof ''that the contemporary American style is not determined by the nature of the subject but by the character of the execution.'' In The New York Times, John Martin wrote that the work's ''eight dancers perform in an idiom and a style that have meaning for them.'' The idea that Robbins ballets offered a collective self-portrait of an entire American generation was shared by the choreographer himself through the 1950's.
        In the meantime, the success of ''Fancy Free'' catapulted Mr. Robbins into a second, parallel, career on Broadway. Oliver Smith, the ballet's designer, urged Mr. Robbins and Leonard Bernstein to expand the sailors-on-leave theme into a musical comedy. The musical, called ''On the Town,'' opened on Dec. 28, 1944, and struck a responsive chord in a war-weary audience that identified with its urban comedy.
        Dance became a major component of any Robbins musical. In 1945, he choreographed ''Billion Dollar Baby,'' also directed by Abbott, while ''High Button Shoes'' (1947) confirmed his ingenuity for period stylization. The Roseland Ballroom honored Mr. Robbins and Martha Graham simultaneously with an award, she for ''bringing art to the masses'' and he for being ''tops in Terpsichore.''
        ''Look Ma -- I'm Dancing'' (1948), with a book by Mr. Robbins and directed by him and Abbott, was a takeoff on a touring ballet company. The typical Robbins comic timing was illustrated by a Pullman car scene in which sleepwalkers tumbled in and out of berths. In quick succession, Mr. Robbins choreographed ''Miss Liberty'' (1949), ''Call Me Madam'' (1950), ''The King and I'' (1951) and ''Two's Company'' (1952).
        Although not the first to treat serious subjects in musical comedy, Mr. Robbins impressed Broadway with ''The Small House of Uncle Thomas,'' his unconventional antislavery ballet in ''The King and I.'' The sequence borrowed from Asian dance idioms.
        Directing 'Gypsy,' 'West Side' and 'Fiddler'
        Mr. Robbins's integrated vision of musicals became more pronounced in shows when he took over the role of director as well as choreographer. He was co-director of ''The Pajama Game'' (1954) with Abbott; he adapted, directed and choreographed ''Peter Pan,'' starring Mary Martin (1954), and he directed ''Bells Are Ringing'' (1956).
        In 1959, he directed and choreographed ''Gypsy,'' and in 1964, he served as production supervisor of ''Funny Girl.'' But the two most successful musicals of his career were those he conceived, directed and choreographed: ''West Side Story,'' an updated version of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' in 1957, and ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' inspired by Sholom Aleichem's stories, in 1964.
        Mr. Robbins also acted as show doctor, patching up five productions. He choreographed Aaron Copland's ''Tender Land'' for the New York City Opera (1954) and directed two nonmusical productions: Arthur Kopit's ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad,'' and Bertolt Brecht's ''Mother Courage and her Children.''
        Yet for all his acclaim in show business (which included five Donaldson Awards, four Tonys, two Oscars for the 1961 film version of ''West Side Story'' and an Emmy for a televised version of ''Peter Pan''), Mr. Robbins remained primarily devoted to ballet.
        His later works were more classical but in 1946, he typically caused a stir with ''Facsimile,'' the first of his ballets about contemporary neuroses. The cast consisted of Mr. Robbins and two Ballet Theater stars, Nora Kaye and John Kriza. The ballet's love triangle came to an end with Ms. Kaye's cry of ''Stop!'' Looking back in 1990, Mr. Robbins said, ''It was sort of a transitional piece, and it came out of a situation in my own life when I was involved with two other people.'' Ms. Kaye, in fact, told The New York Times in 1951 that she planned to marry Mr. Robbins on April 16 of that year. The engagement was broken and Mr. Robbins, who was very private about his life, never married. He is survived by his sister, Sonia Cullinen of Wilmington, Vt.
        Mr. Robbins had cast Miss Kaye in ''The Cage,'' an allegory about man-eating female insects that commented at best on the eternal battle of the sexes and at worst suggested that women instinctively hate men. For all its sensational aura, it became one of the classics Mr. Robbins choreographed in his first decade at the City Ballet. In 1953, ''Afternoon of a Faun'' stunned audiences by its mix of sensuousness and simplicity. An updated gloss on Nijinsky's 1913 ballet to the same Debussy score, the work epitomized the Robbins genius for discovering the rightness of every movement.
        All the while, Mr. Robbins was shuttling between Broadway and ballet. In 1958, he took a step that led to an informal leave from the City Ballet. For the first Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, that summer, he directed an ad hoc group of dancers that became Ballets: U.S.A.  Although short-lived, this Robbins troupe had a huge success in Europe and embodied a specifically American spirit in ballets like ''Moves'' and ''N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz.'' The group disbanded in 1961 but reassembled for a White House dinner in 1962 given by President John F. Kennedy for the Shah of Iran.
        Named Ballet Master, Then Artistic Director
        In 1965, Mr. Robbins returned to Ballet Theater to choreograph his version of a peasant wedding in ''Les Noces.'' Just as surprisingly, he then embarked on three years of quiet experimentation in a project that he called the American Theater Laboratory. His unrealized aim, he said later, was to create theater pieces in the way that he composed ballets.
        On some level, the experience reopened the floodgates of his creativity. Returning to the New York City Ballet in 1969, where Balanchine named him ballet master, he astonished both the theater and dance worlds with the invention that poured into ''Dances at a Gathering.'' Subsequent major ballets included ''The Goldberg Variations,'' an 85-minute exposition of the ballet lexicon, and ''Watermill,'' in which Edward Villella reclined onstage, meditating on life and phases of the moon.
        Meanwhile Balanchine, who had  choreographed little from 1968 to 1972, was subject to increasing speculation that his creativity had come to an end. That he then needed Mr. Robbins by his side was obvious. Yet even after he recovered from this dry spell, Balanchine continued to work with Mr. Robbins in a relationship of mutual respect.
        A few weeks before Balanchine died on April 1, 1983, the City Ballet's board named Mr. Robbins and Peter Martins, a principal dancer in the company, as artistic directors. After Lincoln Kirstein, the company's co-founder, resigned in September 1989, Mr. Robbins announced that he wished to work on other projects and would resign his own post on Jan. 1, 1990. He continued to rehearse the company for its ''Festival of Jerome Robbins's Ballets'' and left the troupe in June of that year.
        Yet after restaging his works for the Paris Opera Ballet, Mr. Robbins choreographed a plotless Bach ballet, ''Two- and Three-Part Inventions,'' in June 1994 for the School of American Ballet. It was transferred in the fall to the City Ballet. Mr. Robbins explained that he was returning from ''a break.'' A few months earlier, he had created a solo to Bach for Mikhail Baryshnikov.
        In 1995, after the City Ballet acquired a hit in ''West Side Story Suite,'' based on dances from his show, Mr. Robbins had a heart valve replaced. But in 1997, he finished a major work for the company, ''Brandenburg,'' to the Bach concertos. During rehearsals, he had said, ''I feel I have one more big ballet in me.'' It was his last new work.
        Correction:  August 8, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on July 30 about the director and choreographer Jerome Robbins misstated the authorship of the 1948 Broadway musical ''Look Ma, I'm Dancin'!'' It was written by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee, not by Mr. Robbins, who is credited with having conceived the idea for the show.
      