
        Vladimir D. Dudintsev, a reporter and novelist whose dissection of mid-1950's Soviet life drew the wrath of Nikita S. Khrushchev and the muffled praise of dissidents, died last Thursday at his dacha near here. He was 79 and had been ill since suffering a stroke several years ago.
        As the cold war was settling into a hard freeze in 1956, Mr. Dudintsev stirred political and literary sensations with the publication of ''Not by Bread Alone,'' a 500-page novel that took indirect but unmistakable aim at the deadening effects of the Soviet system on the human spirit.
        For a few months the book was the talk of Russian intellectual circles and the object of endless analysis by foreigners who were looking for clues to the course of Communism.
        Mr. Dudintsev paid dearly. The book was quickly denounced as a ''social evil.'' His writings became officially untouchable, and his family sank into poverty.
        By 1987, Mr. Dudintsev had fully regained favor, even publishing a second novel, ''Robed in White,'' which won a state literary prize. But a friend and fellow journalist, Yury V. Danilin, stressed that any rehabilitation had occurred because Soviet leaders had changed their opinions. But not Mr. Dudintsev.
        ''This was a really unique person in the history of our literature,'' said Mr. Danilin, deputy editor of the influential weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta. ''He never gave up. He was continually claiming the truth.''
        Mr. Dudintsev was not universally admired, especially among literary experts. His writing style, such as it was, was often called wooden and his plots were called convoluted.
        ''No one ever said he was a great writer, a great artist,'' said Tatyana Tolstaya, a critic, writer and professor of creative writing who works in Russia and the United States. ''In literature he was not a dissident. He just arranged his ideas in the form of a classic boring novel.''
        Admirers respond that he was less concerned with entertaining readers than with unearthing and publicizing the truth, a goal that became a passion in his later years. Mr. Dudintsev's literary specialty was stories about science and scientists, a preference that dated from his days in the 40's as a roving correspondent for the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda, visiting and writing about factories.
        Mr. Dudintsev, Mr. Danilin recalled, was especially struck by the tale of one worker who could not convince his superiors that he had found a valuable deposit of nickel, because the Communist Party's scientific dogma stated that the metal could not exist there.
        Mr. Danilin said that story was the inspiration for ''Not by Bread Alone,'' which recounted the efforts of an inventor, Lopatkin, to convince his superiors to adopt his machine for the centrifugal casting of iron drain pipes. Lopatkin succeeded, but not before being oppressed, accused of divulging state secrets and spending time in an Arctic labor camp. Even in the end, Lopatkin's tormentors, all symbols of the overpowering Soviet bureaucracy, remain in power, with luxuries and freedoms that ordinary Russians could only dream about.
        In a sense the book turned on its head the formulaic Soviet plot of the time, the lonely proletarian who strives against odds to defeat capitalist heavies and advance the cause of Communism.
        When an American edition of the book appeared in October 1957, The New York Times said in an article, ''The author is careful to show Lopatkin as a believer in Communism and he ascribes the inventor's troubles to evil men, not to any flaw in the system.''
        The article continued, ''But so pervasive is the evil and the intrigue that the reader may find it difficult to distinguish between the failings of Communist officials and the failings of Communism.''
        Mr. Dudintsev had failed several times to persuade Russian publishers to issue the book, and it might never have seen the light of day had not Khrushchev, who was Premier, decided in February 1956 to denounce the repressive regime of his predecessor, Stalin, and mount a harsh attack on the Soviet bureaucracy. Those acts apparently persuaded the editor of a Moscow literary gazette, Novy Mir, that it would be acceptable to serialize the novel that autumn.
        But that was not so. The Communist-controlled writers' union accused Mr. Dudintsev of ''vilifying'' Soviet society. Khrushchev wrote that Mr. Dudintsev ''took a malicious joy in describing the negative sides of Soviet life,'' called the book ''unhealthy, tendentious and noxious,'' and started a drive to force writers to hew more closely to Communist ideology.
        Mr. Dudintsev disappeared from view, except for a brief preface to a British edition of his book in which he wrote that foreigners had misinterpreted the novel. In 1960 he courted further punishment when Novy Mir published a parable, ''A New Year's Tale,'' in which an evil and indolent bureaucracy tries to thwart a scientist's effort to bring light to a continent in darkness.
        Khrushchev was later deposed, and his successor, Leonid I. Brezhnev, ordered the novel republished, in part to denigrate Khrushchev and in part to keep Mr. Dudintsev from gaining martyr status, some experts wrote at the time.
        Although ''Not by Bread Alone'' secured Mr. Dudintsev's fame, his more courageous work may have been ''Robed in White,'' another fictionalized account of how a Soviet scientist popular among Khrushchev's aides, Trofim D. Lysenko, all but destroyed Russian work in genetics and aided the persecution of other leading scientists.
        Mr. Dudintsev researched the book in the Khrushchev era, and it ''is very hard to imagine what courage it took,'' Mr. Danilin said today.
        ''Even studying this subject,'' he added, ''was so dangerous it can be compared to working with a gun pointed at your head.''
      