
        Herbert Haufrecht, a composer, pianist, folklorist and music editor, died on June 23 at the Albany Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Shady, N.Y.
        Mr. Haufrecht was born in New York City and studied at the Cleveland Institute of Music, where his teachers included the composers Herbert Elwell and Quincy Porter, and at the Juilliard School, where he studied composition with Rubin Goldmark. He also studied piano with Severin Eisenberger and chamber music with Arthur Loesser.
        Soon after he completed his studies, he was hired as a field representative in West Virginia for the Resettlement Administration of the Federal Department of Agriculture. During his four years there, he collected folk songs and stories, organized square dances and began an oral history project that occupied him for nearly four decades.
        He developed educational materials based on folk music and wrote several publications, including ''Folk Songs in Settings by Master Composers'' (1970) and ''Folk Songs of the Catskills'' (1982), a three-volume work on which he collaborated with Norman Cazden and Norman Studer.
        When he returned to New York in 1939, Mr. Haufrecht became a staff composer and arranger for the Federal Theater and composed incidental scores for several plays. He also organized an annual Folk Festival of the Catskills, in Phoenicia, N.Y., in 1940 and composed several stage works for it, including a musical theater work, ''We've Come From the City,'' and a folk opera, ''Boney Quillen.'' He worked with several folk singers, including Pete Seeger, Burl Ives, the Weavers and, in the 1960's, Judy Collins.
        Mr. Haufrecht's symphonic music reflected his folk interests, as well as an interest in jazz. Among his works are a set of ''Fantastic Marches,'' which were given their premiere by Leopold Stokowski on an NBC Symphony broadcast in 1939; a Symphony for Brass and Timpani; ''Blues and Fugue'' for viola; two string quartets, and several children's works. His final work was a setting of Mark Twain's ''War Prayer,'' which had its premiere in Kingston, N.Y., in 1995.
        He is survived by his wife, Betty; two daughters, Marsha Haufrecht and Joy Lugo; a son, William Robert Haufrecht, and two grandchildren.
      