
        Irving Sloane, a self-taught luthier whose how-to books on high-end guitar construction paved the way for the current proliferation of finely crafted hand-built guitars, died on June 21. He was 73.
        The cause was renal-cell cancer, said his son David.
        Mr. Sloane grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan with a grandmother who masqueraded as a gypsy and told fortunes, and at the Hebrew Orphan Asylum. Starting in high school, he earned money lettering signs, a skill he eventually developed into a career in commercial art.
        In his off hours he would play classical, folk and flamenco music on the guitar, his son said. While taking a walk one day in the early 1950's, he peered into the window of John D'Angelico, a renowned guitar maker, and discovered a way to unite his loves of craft and music.
        At the time, anyone interested in guitar construction had to find a luthier -- usually in Spain, Germany or Belgium -- and try to become his apprentice, according to one guitar dealer. Mr. Sloane studied with two or three guitar builders in New York and Pennsylvania.
        Working at home over a period of 15 years, he devised techniques to build a good guitar. In ''Classical Guitar Construction,'' in 1966, he outlined the steps. In ''Guitar Repair'' (1973) he taught how to fix them. ''Steel String Guitar Construction'' and ''Making Musical Instruments'' were his final two books. All four were published by Dutton.
        Roger Sadowsky, a New York luthier who was a graduate student at the time, stumbled on ''Classical Guitar Construction'' in The Whole Earth Catalogue. ''Reading it was like entering a new world,'' he said. ''I can vividly recall the pictures of Irving planing his wood to thickness and boiling his sides in a galvanized pan.'' The books, he said, started him on his career.
        In addition to his son David, of North Potomac, Md., Mr. Sloane is survived by his second wife, Zelda Phillips-Sloane; another son, Roy, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Linda Sloane-Atchley of Lakeville, Conn., and four grandchildren.
        Today there are some 5,000 professional luthiers in the country building the ''nicest guitars ever made,'' said Jay Hostetler, an executive with an Ohio guitar company.
        ''There are better books now,'' Mr. Hostetler said, ''but it all started with Irving's books and stepped farther and farther.''
      