
        Lawrence Campbell, a critic who chronicled New York's contemporary art scene for nearly four decades, while also painting, teaching art history and working as an editor, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84  and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Campbell was most closely associated with the Art Students League on West 57th Street, where he went to study painting in 1946 and to some extent never left. Working in an office filled with books he willingly lent to interested students, he became known as the school's ''resident intellectual.'' He edited and contributed reviews to its newsletter, wrote and designed its catalogues (many of which won awards) and became so knowledgeable about the school itself that he was often called its historian.
        ''We know our legacy because it was preserved by Lawrence Campbell,'' Joanne Kuebler, the school's director, said on Thursday.
        Mr. Campbell's innate understanding of the league's loose atelier system, in which students studied with the artists of their choice and did not  receive degrees, may have reflected his own peripatetic education. At the  league, he studied with Vaclav Vytlacil, Morris Kantor and Will Barnet. He often questioned the usefulness of  a university education for most artists.
        Mr. Campbell was born in Paris on  May 21, 1914. His father, James Lawrence Campbell, a painter, was descended from 17th-century settlers of Virginia; his mother, Alice Ormond, a writer, from French Huguenots who came over on the Mayflower. He attended Westminister School in London, where he learned French and German, as well as the London Central School of Arts and Crafts and the Academie de la Grande Chaumiere in Paris. Enlisting in the United States Army in 1941, he served in the Counter-Intelligence Corps, mostly in North Africa and Iran, and was part of a detachment that assumed the duties of the United States Secret Service at the Teheran Conference in 1943.
        Outside the league, Mr. Campbell's hundreds of articles and reviews appeared mostly in Art News and Art in America, but also Craft Horizons, Portfolio and Today's Art. He was known for his fairness and generosity as a critic and for his advocacy of all kinds of representational painting. His taste and knowledge were extremely broad. His subjects ranged from abstract painters like Burgoyne Diller and Harry Holtzman, to figurative painters like  Graham Nixon and Robert De Niro  to artists who operated somewhere in between, like Elaine de Kooning and Steve Wheeler.
        Mr. Campbell also taught at Brooklyn College for many years and, from 1959 to 1990, at Pratt Institute. He had his first exhibition in New York at the Contemporary Arts Gallery in 1951 and subsequently exhibited at the Tanager Gallery, the Kornblee Gallery and the Green Mountain Gallery.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Audrey Holtmann; a son, Ian B. R. Campbell of Mapleton, Utah; a  daughter, Sarah A. O. Campbell of Manhattan; a son from an earlier marriage, Richard E. Campbell of Chappaqua, N.Y., and one grandchild.
      