
        Franny Murray, who starred in football and basketball for the University of Pennsylvania in the mid-1930's, then became embroiled in a major controversy over his ambitious football program as Penn's athletic director in the early 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82.
        Mr. Murray had been in poor health since suffering a stroke four years ago, his family said.
        An outstanding halfback and kicker for Penn from 1934 to 1936, Mr. Murray teamed with Lew Elverson, Ed Warwick and Bill Kurlish in the Destiny Backfield of 1936, the name deriving from President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ''Rendezvous With Destiny'' speech. He was a first-team all-American in his senior season, when he led Penn to a 7-1 record. In a 27-7 victory over Michigan, he ran for two touchdowns, threw for another, placed six punts inside the 12-yard line, kicked three extra points and intercepted four passes. He played for the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League in 1939 and 1940.
        He also played three seasons for Penn's basketball team and was an all-American at guard in the 1936-37 season.
        Back in 1933, Mr. Murray's freshman football coach was George Munger. Seventeen years later, Mr. Murray became Penn's athletic director, overseeing Mr. Munger, who by then was in his 13th season as the highly popular head football coach. Soon they would clash in a controversy that wound up with both men leaving their posts.
        The turmoil had its roots in the selection of Harold E. Stassen, the former Governor of Minnesota and 1948 Republican presidential hopeful, as Penn's president in 1948.
        Hoping to enhance football revenues, Mr. Stassen announced a ''Victory With Honor'' program in the summer of 1950, promising strong football teams while pledging to refrain from improper recruiting. To carry out the high-powered program, he chose Francis Thomas Murray as athletic director. Mr. Murray, a Philadelphia native, had promoted cultural and sports events as executive director of The Philadelphia Inquirer Charities and had worked as a radio broadcaster after ending his athletic career.
        Penn then scheduled nationally powerful teams while its fellow Ivy League schools were beginning to de-emphasize football. The 1953 schedule listed only one Ivy opponent, Cornell, but games with Vanderbilt, Penn State, California, Ohio State, Navy, Michigan, Notre Dame and Army.
        While Mr. Murray hoped to fill Franklin Field and get big television paydays, Mr. Munger wanted more games with the traditional Ivy League opponents. The Penn players agreed, and in March 1953 they wrote a letter to Mr. Murray, Mr. Munger and the acting school president, William DuBarry, who had succeeded Mr. Stassen, complaining that the schedule was too difficult for a team barred by Ivy regulations from holding spring practices.
        A few days later, at a team ''harmony'' dinner, Mr. Murray assailed Mr. Munger for interfering with his responsibilities by pressing for an easier schedule.
        Two months later, Mr. Murray was fired, and a few days after that, Mr. Munger announced he would resign after the 1953 season to become the school's director of physical education. Penn went 3-5-1 in 1953, then began to de-emphasize football and joined the other Ivy schools in a round-robin schedule that began in 1956.
        Mr. Murray worked as an an executive in the paper products industry after leaving Penn. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; two daughters, Sharon Fogarty of Greenwich, Conn., and Susan Moore of Miami Lakes, Fla., and three grandchildren.
        Who was the villain of the football controversy? Joe Williams, the sports editor of The New York World-Telegram & Sun, pointed to Mr. Stassen. He wrote: ''As an educator, Stassen will be remembered as the Midwestern bull who wrecked Penn's football china shop and brought humiliation to two old campus heroes.''
      