
        Lev Rokhlin, a onetime Russian lieutenant general, national legislator and leader of a splinter movement aimed at deposing President Boris N. Yeltsin, was killed with a shot to his head today after a family celebration at his country home outside Moscow. He was 51.
        Radical members of the lower house of Parliament, in which Mr. Rohklin served, quickly asserted that Mr. Rokhlin had been silenced to cover up scandals in Mr. Yeltsin's Defense Ministry. But investigators said later that Mr. Rokhlin's wife, Tamara, had confessed to the killing, saying it was ''due to a hostile relationship'' with her husband.
        Mrs. Rokhlin said she had shot her husband about 4 A.M. on Friday as he slept after a birthday celebration for his son, the investigators said.
        Mr. Rokhlin was one of Mr. Yeltsin's fiercest critics in Parliament. Since 1997 he had traveled throughout Russia, seeking to organize military servicemen and retirees into a political force that could force the President from office.
        The potential for such a force seemed huge. Conditions in the military have deteriorated markedly in recent years, Mr. Yeltsin's 1994-96 war against Chechen rebels sapped military morale and thousands of servicemen have been discharged with little prospect of finding work elsewhere.
        Several prominent opponents of Mr. Yeltsin, including his former security chief and a former Defense Minister whom the President dismissed on national television, threw their support behind Mr. Rokhlin.
        But Mr. Rokhlin's group, Movement in Support of the Army, never gained traction against the Yeltsin Government. In May Mr. Rokhlin tried to stage a mass protest of army servicemen, but the only notable result was the detention of two members of his former army unit for ''illegal political agitation.'' And later that month, supporters of Mr. Yeltsin in Parliament struck an unlikely alliance with Communists to strip Mr. Rokhlin of his post as chairman of the defense committee.
        Mr. Rokhlin was born in Kazakhstan and was a star student in military academies of the former Soviet Union. He was decorated for his service in the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the early 1980's and later for service during the war in Chechnya.
        He was elected to Parliament in 1995 as a member of a pro-Yeltsin political party, which he later quit to organize his own political movement.
      