
        Renato Capecchi, an Italian baritone and character actor who was best known for his deft portrayals of comic roles, died on Tuesday at his home in Milan. He was 74.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Tony Russo, his spokesman.
        Mr. Capecchi was a regular presence at the Metropolitan Opera in the early 1950's and from 1975 , until his retirement in 1994.
        He made his Met debut as Germont, in Verdi's ''Traviata,'' in 1951. During that first Met stint, which lasted until 1954, sang mostly serious roles: Marcello in Puccini's ''Boheme,'' Escamillo in Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Enrico in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' -- as well as an occasional comic turn, like Figaro in Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia.''
        After his return to the Met in 1975, Mr. Capecchi specialized in the smaller roles that add humorous touches to otherwise tragic works -- the Sacristan in Puccini's ''Tosca,'' for example, or Benoit and Alcindoro in ''La Boheme.'' In 1986, when he was 63, he sang a program of Italian folk songs in a belated New York debut recital at Carnegie Hall.
        Outside New York, Mr. Capecchi's career was somewhat more varied. He sang in the first Italian production of ''The Nose,'' by Shostakovich, and he created roles in Gian Francesco Malipiero's ''Donna e Mobile,'' in Giorgio Federico Ghedini's ''Billy Budd'' and ''Lord Inferno'' and in Sylvano Bussotti's ''Inspirazione.''
        As a director, Mr. Capecchi staged ''La Boheme,'' at the Metropolitan Opera, Donizetti's ''Daughter of the Regiment'' at the New York City Opera and ''Il Barbiere di Siviglia'' at the University of Colorado. He also directed productions at the San Francisco Opera and at the Manhattan School of Music, where he taught for many years.
        Mr. Capecchi was born in Cairo in November 1923 and studied in Lausanne and Milan.
        In the late 1940's he won a vocal competition sponsored by an Italian radio station, and in 1949 he made his professional debut as Amonasro in Verdi's ''Aida.'' He gave his first performances at La Scala in 1950 and sang regularly at Covent Garden from 1962 to 1973.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeannette; a son, Marco, and a daughter,  Magali.
      