
        Aram Glorig, a leading expert on the effects of noise in the workplace whose work helped untold numbers of people with deafness or hearing loss, died on June 22 at the South Coast Medical Center in San Clemente, Calif. He was 92 and lived in San Clemente.
        Dr. Glorig's career as a forensic and industrial ear specialist spanned nearly 60 years. He helped develop smaller and more efficient hearing aids and set standards for noise levels on the job.
        He also helped apply accreditation standards for the National Association of Hearing and Speech Agencies and helped develop international standards for calibrating hearing-testing equipment.
        In 1973, Dr. Glorig founded the American Auditory Society, which represents thousands of professionals working for better understanding of the ear, hearing and balance, and ear disorders and how to remedy them.
        Before retiring from full-time work a few months ago, Dr. Glorig was affiliated with the House Ear Clinic in Los Angeles for 20 years as a consultant in forensic otology, the legal aspect of medicine dealing with the ear and its disorders.
        Aram Glorig, who was born in Manchester, England, graduated from Atlantic Union College in Massachusetts in 1931. He received his medical degree in 1938 at Loma Linda University in Los Angeles.
        In his residency in pediatrics, Dr. Glorig came into contact with many children with bad hearing, prompting him to specialize in otolaryngology, which deals with disorders of the ear, nose and throat. After completing his second residency in 1941, he joined the Army and, while stationed in England, observed cases of severe hearing impairment and tinnitus -- buzzing or ringing in the ear -- from bomb and shell blasts.
        Later, Dr. Glorig, as an assistant professor at the Yale University medical school, was asked by the Surgeon General to set up a hearing-disorders center at Walter Reed Army Hospital. Dr. Glorig later became director of the Audiology and Speech Correction Center for the Veterans Administration.
        In the late 1940's he also directed the Federal research on job-related noise that formed the basis for noise standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. He left the Veterans Administration in 1953 to become an associate professor of otolaryngology at the University of Southern California.
        In 1964, he became a clinical professor of otolaryngology at the University of Texas Medical School and founding director of the Callier Center in Dallas, serving in both jobs until 1977.
        Dr. Glorig is survived by his wife, Bobbi Barras-Glorig; two daughters, Patricia G. Schiff of Dallas and Deborah G. DeVeccia of Argyle, Tex.; and four grandchildren.
      