
        Semon E. Knudsen, who had been a high-ranking executive at the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the White Motor Corporation, died on Monday at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 85.
        Mr. Knudsen, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who was invariably called by his nickname, Bunkie, grew up in the auto-saturated atmosphere of Detroit and at General Motors, where his father, William S. Knudsen, was named president in 1937.
        Mr. Knudsen was, in Detroit parlance, a ''car guy,'' an executive who pays more attention to developing popular car models than to finances or administration. At the age of 14, he was already pressing his father for a car, even though he was still too young to drive. His father responded by giving him a car -- in hundreds of pieces, which he assembled himself.
        Mr. Knudsen's close relationship with his father is the source of his nickname, according to the family. It derives from a World War I term for bunk mate or close friend.
        Mr. Knudsen attended private schools in the Detroit area and went to Dartmouth College for a year before transferring to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to study engineering. After graduation in 1936, he declined to go to work at G.M., taking a job at an unaffiliated machine shop.
        Three years later, he accepted the inevitable and went to work for the Pontiac division of G.M. as chief inspector. But he was interested in production, and soon became involved in processing parts and setting up assembly lines.
        When the car companies retooled their plants to produce arms for World War II, Mr. Knudsen became assistant chief inspector of gun operations at Pontiac. (Meanwhile, William Knudsen had resigned as president of G.M. to direct industrial production efforts for the duration of the war.)
        It was during the war that the younger Mr. Knudsen came to the attention of top G.M. executives who began to see him less as the former president's son and more as a talented production engineer. Among other things, he developed highly technical testing equipment for air-dropped torpedoes.
        After the war, he was given increasingly senior positions at the Allison and Detroit Diesel engine divisions.
        In 1956 he was named vice president and general manager of the Pontiac division at the unusually young age of 44. The division had a reputation for producing well-engineered, but unexciting, cars. He changed the styling of the cars, even removing the ''silver streak'' chrome trim from the center of the hood and trunk that had been a Pontiac trademark since 1935.
        He entered Pontiac in races to generate some excitement for the brand and succeeded in raising sales for the division from sixth place to third.
        Mr. Knudsen employed some of the same tactics when he was named to manage G.M.'s largest division, Chevrolet, in 1961. He emphasized the powerful Super Sport versions of the Chevrolet Impala, Chevelle and Camaro models and Nascar stock car racing, in which racing engines and other components are built within standard auto bodies so spectators can link race winners to showroom models.
        Chevrolet set a sales record by 1965, and Mr. Knudsen was appointed a group vice president for all Canadian and overseas operations. All domestic nonautomotive operations were later added to his responsibilities.
        In 1967 he was named an executive vice president with broad responsibilities for overseas and domestic nonautomotive operations and reported directly to the chairman. But any dreams he may have had about following his father as president of the company were dashed when another executive vice president, Edward Cole, was chosen instead.
        He let it be known that he was thinking of resigning from G.M., and shortly thereafter, Henry Ford 2d came calling.
        Mr. Ford, the chairman, evidently thought Ford Motor could emulate G.M.'s success by installing a G.M. executive as his chief aide. There was even a historical precedent: Mr. Knudsen's father had worked for the first Henry Ford as his production chief until being dismissed in 1921.
        Mr. Knudsen was named president of Ford in February 1968, thwarting, for a time, the ambitions of Lee A. Iacocca, then a vice president at the company.
        Mr. Knudsen arrived at Ford without any internal allies and was regarded by Ford veterans as an interloper. As a result, his attempts to make his mark at Ford by restyling new models had little success.
        In his 1984 autobiography, ''Iacocca,'' Mr. Iacocca described the scene at Ford headquarters in Dearborn: ''As a leader, Bunkie Knudsen had little impact on the company. Among other things, he failed to bring over any of his top people from G.M. to help him put his plans into operation. Nobody at Ford felt much loyalty to Knudsen, so he was without a power base. As a result he found himself alone in an alien atmosphere, never really accepted.''
        Stories from inside the auto industry at that time had Mr. Knudsen touring Ford's design studios and ordering styling changes, which were quickly reversed in subsequent visits by executives loyal to Mr. Iacocca. Mr. Knudsen was president of Ford for 19 months, until Mr. Ford  dismissed him in September 1969.
        After leaving Ford, Mr. Knudsen was named chairman of White Motor in 1971, a manufacturer of heavy trucks that was based in Cleveland.
        He arrived as deregulation was beginning to shake up the trucking industry and orders for new trucks were scarce. He led the company through several financial crises before retiring in 1980. The company filed for bankruptcy later that year, and its heavy truck operations were sold to Volvo A.B.
        Mr. Knudson was born on Oct. 2, 1912, in Buffalo, but spent most of his early years in the Detroit area. He was married to the former Frances Anne McConnell for 58 years until her death on in 1996.
        He is survived by three daughters,  Judith Christie and Lisa Flint of Birmingham, Mich., and Kristina Gregg of Vancouver, British Columbia; a son, K. Peter, of Harbor Springs, Mich.; two sisters, Martha McKenney of Bloomfield Hills, and Clara VanderKloot of Old Lyme, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and 13 great-grandchildren.
      