
        Having quietly expanded its research operations and recruited a new crop of scientists since it was embroiled in a research fraud case seven years ago, Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in Manhattan, has selected a prominent cancer researcher as its next president, university officials said yesterday.
        Dr. Arthur J. Levine, who is credited with establishing and then expanding Princeton University's molecular biology department during 12 years as chairman, will assume the post today, becoming the university's eighth president. He has served as chairman of an independent review panel on Federal AIDS research funding since 1996.
        He replaces Dr. Torsten N. Wiesel, a neurobiologist and Nobel Prize winner who has served as president since 1991, after his predecessor, Dr. David Baltimore, a molecular biologist and Nobel laureate, stepped down amid a debate over his defense of a colleague who was accused of writing a scientific report containing  fabricated data. Two years ago, a Federal appeals panel dismissed charges of scientific misconduct against the author of the article, Dr. Thereza Imanishi-Kari. Dr. Baltimore, never accused of fraud himself, is now president of the California Institute of Technology.
        Dr. Wiesel, who will continue his research at Rockefeller, is widely regarded as having restored stability at the university. A soft-spoken man with a reputation for diplomacy, Dr. Wiesel has attracted $180 million in private research grants to the university, significantly expanded the number of research laboratories and recruited new faculty members, from renowned scientists like the AIDS specialist Dr. David D. Ho to  promising younger researchers.
        ''There has been a tremendous renewal of faculty strength under Torsten's leadership,'' said Stephen K. Burley, a professor of molecular biophysics who is chairman of the university's faculty senate. ''I think it's going to be a tough act to follow.''
        Trustees and faculty members interviewed yesterday said they were drawn to Dr. Levine's reputation as a scientist -- he discovered a protein molecule that inhibits the development of cancer tumors -- as well as his record in administering departments at Princeton and, before that, at the State University at Stony Brook.
        Dr. Levine, who was born in Brooklyn, became chairman of the Stony Brook microbiology department in 1979, and five years later became the founding chairman of Princeton's molecular biology department. Over the next 12 years, he oversaw the development of two research laboratories at Princeton and expanded the department to 35 faculty members.
        Richard M. Furlaud, the outgoing chairman of Rockefeller's board of trustees and the former chairman of the Squibb Corporation, said, ''The trustees wanted an excellent scientist who is recognized as such but also an excellent administrator.''
        The new president, Mr. Furlaud  said, will be responsible for overseeing the growth of the university as it approaches its 100th anniversary in 2002 and for drawing younger scientists to replenish the existing crop of senior faculty members approaching retirement.
        Moreover, because research like the human genome project is fueling radical new developments in biology, Dr. Levine will have to help the biomedical institution keep pace by attracting specialists in quantitative fields, including physics, mathematics and computer science, Mr. Furlaud said.
        ''We have to continue the tradition,'' Dr. Levine said yesterday. ''That's hard work -- to keep the tradition and be pioneering in new directions.''
        With about 120 faculty members, 300 postdoctoral research fellows and 130 graduate students, the university, located on the Upper East Side, has an annual operating budget of $140 million and an endowment of nearly $900 million. Nineteen Nobel laureates have been associated with the university since its founding in 1902.
        Correction:  July 2, 1998, Thursday  An article yesterday about the appointment of a president at Rockefeller University misstated his given name. He is Arnold J. Levine, not Arthur.
      