
        George Lloyd, a British symphonist and opera composer who rejected the major stylistic currents of the 20th century in favor of the language, coloration and sheer lushness of late Romanticism, died on July 3 at University College Hospital in London. He was 85.
        Critics were divided about Mr. Lloyd's music; some found it refreshingly communicative, others considered it old-fashioned. Even his detractors, however, recognized his compositional voice as authentic and original, not merely a 19th-century pastiche. Although his language is unabashedly tonal, there is a freshness in the melodic writing in the 12 symphonies he composed between 1932 and 1990, and there are engaging complexities in his solo piano works.
        Beginning in the late 1970's, when British musicians began reviving his long-neglected scores, Mr. Lloyd  built a strong popular audience. In the United States, the Albany Symphony Orchestra offered him a guest conducting position in the late 1980's, and with that orchestra he recorded his Symphony No. 1 and Symphony No. 12 in 1990. He also maintained an association with Albany Records, an enterprising American label that recorded several disks of his music, both in the United States and in Britain.
        The success Mr. Lloyd enjoyed during the last 20 years belatedly mirrored that of his early career. Mr. Lloyd was born in 1913 in the English town of St. Ives in Cornwall, and though bouts of rheumatic fever kept him out of school until he was 11, he studied the violin privately with Albert Sammons and composition with Harry Farjeon. He later attended Trinity College. He completed his Symphony No. 1 when he was 19 and sent it to Sir Dan Godfrey, the director of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, who agreed to program the work with the composer conducting.
        Two more symphonies followed in close succession, but by the time he completed the third, in 1935, Mr. Lloyd had also written his first opera, ''Iernin,'' which had a performance at Penzance, in Cornwall. When a critic for The Times of London, vacationing nearby, reviewed a performance, the work was brought to London for a run at the Lyceum. A second opera, ''The Serf,'' which like ''Iernin'' was based on a Cornish legend and had a libretto by the composer's father, was produced at Covent Garden in 1938.
        Having had three symphonies and two operas performed by age 25, Mr. Lloyd was regarded as a promising  composer when World War II intervened. He was a gunner on Arctic convoys and a member of the Royal Marine Band when his ship was blown up in 1942. He was rescued, but was severely traumatized and his childhood health problems reoccurred. After the war, he spent several years convalescing in Switzerland, his wife's homeland, where he wrote his Fourth and Fifth Symphonies. Mr. Lloyd is survived by his wife of 61 years, Nancy.
        In 1951, he was commissioned to write a third opera for the Festival of Britain. The work, ''John Socman,'' was about a soldier returning from the battle of Agincourt. When reviews of the premiere were mixed, and reviews of tour performances that year were little more enthusiastic, Mr. Lloyd withdrew from the musical world and settled in Dorset, where he grew carnations and mushrooms.
        Through the 1950's and 60's he continued to compose, however, between 4:30 and 7:30 A.M. daily and produced three more symphonies and the first of his four piano concertos. The pianist John Ogden performed the concerto in 1969 and later championed other works by Mr. Lloyd. That same year the BBC Symphony Orchestra accepted his Eighth Symphony for performance, but did not program it until 1977.
        Mr. Lloyd began to devote himself fully to composition again in 1973. Among his late works are four symphonies, a violin sonata and several large choral works including ''The Vigil of Venus'' (1980), an 80-minute work in Latin for soprano, tenor, chorus and orchestra, and a requiem, which he completed shortly before his death.
        A story told about Mr. Lloyd in the late 1980's suggests the extent of the popularity that his works had achieved. When Tower Records opened its outlet in London, Mr. Lloyd wandered into its classical department and heard one of his works on the sound system. Surprised, he walked to the counter and asked a salesman, who was dressed in punk fashion with orange spiked hair and a nose ring, what was playing.
        ''Why sir,'' the salesman said, ''it's your Fifth Symphony.''
      