
        Warren B. Cozzens, a pioneer in the development of the modern electrocardiogram, died on July 2 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 81 and lived in Evanston.
        He died of a respiratory ailment after a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Cozzens was an inventor whose first laboratory was his partner's garage in Milwaukee. He received his only college training in some night school accounting courses. But in World War II, the United States Navy trained him in radar, then a new technology, and he went on to develop a skill in electronics, which he applied to medical equipment.
        Mr. Cozzens and a partner, Michael J. Cudahy, another inventive dabbler in electronics, co-founded in 1948 the company that is known today as Marquette Medical Systems, based in Milwaukee, with 3,200 employees and $500 million a year in revenue. Its principal products are medical monitoring devices, several of them offshoots of the first device developed by the partners in Mr. Cudahy's garage. That device in effect automated the reading of electrocardiograms.
        An electrocardiogram converts heartbeats into electrical impulses that then appear as jagged lines and waves. Doctors had used rulers to measure the variations, recorded on paper, and arrive at a diagnosis.
        The contribution of Mr. Cozzens and Mr. Cudahy was a piece of equipment that automatically transferred the lines and waves to microfilm and automated the measurement process.
        The two men later developed a variety of other electronic equipment for measuring heart function, including digital equipment for electrocardiograms and for cardiac stress tests.
        Mr. Cudahy is still chairman of Marquette, which sold shares to the public in 1992. Mr. Cozzens, who had left Marquette for a brief period in the 1970's, retired as executive vice president in 1993.
        Mr. Cozzens was born in Jamestown, N.Y., and raised in Wilmette, Ill., near Chicago. As a boy, he became fascinated with radios and built early crystal sets. After high school, Mr. Cozzens worked as a salesman for a radio manufacturer until World War II. He met Mr. Cudahy, another radio enthusiast, in the late 1940's and they formed their first partnership, Cozzens & Cudahy Inc., in 1951.
        Mr. Cozzens's first wife, Barbara, died in 1986. He is survived by his second wife, Jean; a daughter, Christine Cozzens of Atlanta; three sons, Jeffrey, of Kenilworth, Ill., Todd, of Paris, and Michael, of Lac de Flambeau, Wis.; a sister, Ellen Cozzens of Chicago, and eight grandchildren.
      