
        Wayne Calloway, the former chairman and chief executive of Pepsico who combined a quiet, introspective leadership style with an intensely competitive business strategy, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and had been battling prostate cancer since 1992.
        Flags were flying at half-staff yesterday across the Pepsico empire, where Mr. Calloway spent many years as a Frito-Lay executive, moved up to chief financial officer in 1983 and was named to the top job in 1986. He stepped down in 1996, citing health concerns. Under his direction, Pepsico's restaurant division acquired Kentucky Fried Chicken -- one of three fast-food chains that were spun off as a separate company last fall -- the company became one of the first to distribute stock options to most full-time employees, and its market value increased by $35 billion, a Pepsico spokesman said.
        Mr. Calloway frequently made magazine lists of the most-admired chief executives, and he received the President's Volunteer Action Award for his efforts to find jobs for former Braniff Airlines workers after Braniff declared bankruptcy.
        Along with the accolades for Mr. Calloway's professional success, many colleagues and friends yesterday praised his spirit and character. At Pepsico, he insisted on graceful competition, and colleagues said yesterday that he personified it.
        Mr. Calloway was born on Sept. 12, 1935, in Elkin, N.C., and grew up in Winston-Salem, N.C., where his mother worked in a hosiery mill and his father tended a roadside stand,  and most children wound up working in the textile or tobacco industries. But the tall, red-headed Mr. Calloway won a basketball scholarship to Wake Forest University and graduated in 1959 with a bachelor's degree in accounting. He served in the Army and joined Pepsico's Frito-Lay snack division in 1967. By 1976 he was running Frito-Lay, and the division's operating profits tripled during the seven years he was in that job.
        Donald R. Keough, the chairman of Allen & Company and a former Coca-Cola Company president who witnessed some of the most heated battles of the cola wars, called Mr. Calloway ''a fierce competitor and really a true and noble gentleman,'' adding, ''It's a rare combination.''
        While his office demeanor was low key and, like many chief executives, he was fond of golf, Mr. Calloway also had a passion for motorcycles and owned two Harley-Davidsons -- one black, the other red. Friends and colleagues seldom heard him talk about himself, and even during the final days of his illness, he was more interested in hearing how others were doing in their careers and with their families.
        Roger A. Enrico, Pepsico's chairman and chief executive, recalled Mr. Calloway yesterday as a man of few words, but intentionally so. ''God gave you two ears and one mouth,'' he said, quoting a sound bite Mr. Calloway offered in a company videotape a few years ago, ''and you ought to use them in the same proportion.''
        A typical telephone call from Mr. Calloway might go on for two hours, Mr. Enrico added, with only about five words actually being spoken by Mr. Calloway. One Pepsi executive, summoned to lunch alone with Mr. Calloway one day, spent the entire time struggling to think of ways to break the silence. As the coffee was being served, Mr. Calloway finally spoke, saying, ''Why don't we finish this conversation in my office?''
        Mr. Calloway was a director of General Electric, Exxon and Citicorp when he died, in addition to Pepsico. He was also chairman of the board at Wake Forest and an enthusiastic supporter who often interviewed student applicants from the New York area in his office, said the president, Thomas K. Hearn. About five years ago, the university's School of Business and Accountancy was named for Mr. Calloway.
        ''The thing I always admired about him was his insight into people,'' said John F. Welch Jr., the chairman of G.E., who called Mr. Calloway, who joined the G.E. board in 1991, ''a beautiful man'' who displayed great courage during his long illness. ''He could really read people. People we had known for years and knew little things about, he would glean in two meetings. It was an amazing talent.''
        Mr. Calloway is survived by his mother, Lether Smith of Winston-Salem; his wife, Janice, of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, David, of Austin, Tex.; a daughter, Jennifer, of Manhattan; two stepsons, Ross Smythe of Dallas and Boyd Smythe of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      