
        Peter K. Bloch, a founder and former president of Branson Instruments, a company that developed ultrasound fetal monitoring and a number of other medical and commercial uses for ultrasound, died on Tuesday in New London, N.H. He was 79 and lived in New London.
        The cause of death was a swelling on the brain believed to be produced by an aneurysm, the family said.
        Mr. Bloch, a refugee from Nazi Germany who enlisted in the Army ski troops in World War II, started Branson Instruments in 1946 in a garage in Danbury, Conn., with Norman Branson and Robert O. Fehr, also a German refugee, who had worked on antisubmarine sonar at General Electric during the war.
        Mr. Fehr, 87, was married to Mr. Bloch's sister, Edith. Mr. Fehr also died on Tuesday, at home in Greenwich, Conn. Mrs. Fehr said the cause was pneumonia. Mr. Fehr was the editor of The Journal of Audio Engineering for more than 20 years.
        Branson Instruments developed devices to test railroad track, turbines and ship hulls, clean hard-to-reach surfaces in watches, weld plastic toys, and quilt synthetic bedding fabrics. Ultrasound's many uses as an alternative to invasive surgery include breaking up gallstones.
        The founders sold the company in 1965 for about $12 million to Smith Kline & French Laboratories, which later sold the business to the Emerson Electric Company.
        Mr. Bloch was active in local government in Greenwich, Conn., where he was a member of the Board of Estimate and Taxation for more than 20 years; board president of the Greenwich Library, and a member of the Greenwich Hospital Corporation. He was chairman of the Greenwich Democratic Town Committee in the early 1970's and a Democratic state central committeeman from 1968 to 1970.
        Mr. Bloch was born in Floss, Germany, near Munich, and came to the United States in 1938. He graduated from the Columbia University School of General Studies.
        He was divorced from his wife, Barbara Bemis Bloch of Old Greenwich, Conn., in 1991.
        In addition to his sister, Edith, he is survived by two sons, Peter L., of New London, and Roger B., of Dallas; a daughter, Jennifer Samia Bloch of Jaffrey, N.H.; four grandchildren, and his companion, Dorothy Carter of Milford, N.H.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Fehr is survived by a son, David, of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      