
        Ralph S. Brown, a law professor at Yale Law School for more than four decades and an expert on unfair competition, copyright, government security and the rights of individuals, died on June 17. He was 85 and lived in Guilford, Conn.
        Mr. Brown, who taught his last course, ''Copyright and Unfair Competition,'' during the winter, was the editor of the first casebook on these subjects, ''Cases on Copyright, Unfair Competition and Other Topics.'' The book was republished in its sixth edition in 1995, 35 years after it originally appeared.
        Among his battles in support of free competition in the 1950's was his opposition to the ''fair trade'' laws, which enabled retailers to band together to maintain set price levels. The professor, maintaining in the language of the day that this practice should not be exempt from antitrust laws, said: ''Bargain hunting, especially for the ladies, is a pretty important privilege. And if a man wants to buy a bottle of aspirin and save a nickel by walking an extra block, there shouldn't be a law to prevent that.''
        In 1958, Mr. Brown wrote ''Loyalty and Security: Employment Tests in the United States,'' for which he was awarded the Henderson Prize from Harvard Law School for excellence in dealing with problems in government. He was concerned about both the fairness and effectiveness of the  Government's security programs covering civilian defense workers with access to classified information. The programs grew out of growing fears of Communist infiltration of the Government in the late 1940's and 50's. Mr. Brown said that ''the full panorama of employment tests carried on in the name of loyalty and security were every bit as extensive and confusing'' as those that followed Waterloo or Gettysburg, and he called for greater clarity and care in determining and declaring where government risks existed and where they did not. Much of the program was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1959 as unconstitutional.
        Mr. Brown was born in Federalsburg, Md., and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy. He received both his Bachelor of Arts degree, in 1935, and his law degree, in 1939, from Yale. After law school, he joined the New York firm of Wright, Gordon, Zachry & Parlin, then moved to Washington to serve as a lawyer for the Office of Price Administration, but soon thereafter he joined the Navy. He was appointed to the Yale law faculty after returning from service in World War II.
        At Yale, he was associate dean of the law school from 1965 to 1970, a member of the board of governors of the Yale University Press and chairman of the Yale advisory committee on investor responsibility.
        Besides his wife, the former Elizabeth Mills, he is survived by three daughters, Lauren Brown of Branford, Conn., Valerie Brown of Brooklyn and Lila Brown of Frankfurt, Germany; two brothers, Elliott, of Naples, Fla., and Huey, of Snow Hill, Md.; two sisters, Sarah McCulloch of Guilford and Barbara Pace of Chautauqua, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      