
        Curtis Jay Berger, who trained generations of aspiring lawyers in the fine points of real estate and property law, died on Monday at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, according to Columbia Law School, where he was the Lawrence A. Wien Professor of Real Estate Law.
        Professor Berger was on the Columbia law faculty for 36 years. A specialist in urban affairs, he also spent a year as chairman of urban planning in the School of Architecture in 1969 and 1970.
        He was the author of ''Land Ownership and Use'' (1968), which went into its fourth edition last year, and other books on property law. With Peter J. Wiedenbeck, he wrote ''Partnership Taxation, Cases and Materials'' (1989).
        He frequently contributed to professional journals and served as a director of many professional organizations. He was a member of the West Side Waterfront Panel in 1990 and a director of the Hudson River Park Conservancy from 1992 to 1996.
        Professor Berger was a past president of the Association of American Law Schools and at his death was a trustee of the Foundation for Research and Education of the National Association for Law Placement. He also was a board member and, from 1981 to 1986, president of the Bridge, a nonprofit agency in New York looking after the severely ill and homeless and people with H.I.V.
        A native of Rochester, Mr. Berger earned his undergraduate degree from the University of Rochester in 1948 and his law degree from Yale Law School three years later.
        Mr. Berger was in private practice in Rochester until 1958, when he became an instructor at Yale. After two years at the University of Southern California, he joined the Columbia faculty in 1962 to teach the law on real estate transactions, partnerships and real property.
        He is survived by his wife of 25 years, Vivian Adler Berger, the Nash Professor of Law at Columbia.
        Also surviving are four children from a previous marriage that ended in divorce: Ellen Lewis, of Jerusalem; Cathy Berger, of Hoboken, N.J.; Wendy Berger, of Portland, Ore., and John, of Hoboken; two sisters, Gloria Drehmel and Glenna Cook, both of San Mateo, Calif.; a brother, Philip, of Coral Gables, Fla., and 11 grandchildren.
      