
        Paul L. Klein, an executive who helped pioneer new forms of pay television, died on July 4 at the Plaza Fifty Suite Hotel in Manhattan, where he was staying with his wife. He was 69 and lived in Catskill, N.Y.
        He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1970, after nine years as an audience measurement expert for NBC, Mr. Klein helped form Computer Television Inc., one of the first companies to deliver pay-per-view movies to hotel rooms. In 1975, Time Inc. acquired Mr. Klein's interest in the venture and later sold it to Spectradyne Inc., which continues to provide pay-per-view services in hotels.
        In 1982, Mr. Klein founded the Playboy Channel, the first to produce, license and broadcast adult programming on pay television.
        While at NBC in the 1960's, Mr. Klein developed a reputation as an aggressive and witty partisan for the network. As NBC's vice president for audience measurement, he engaged in a long-running feud with Michael Dann, the senior vice president for programming at CBS.
        After CBS prevailed in an audience ratings report in early 1970, Mr. Klein invoked the theories of Marshall McLuhan, the media theorist: ''They didn't win the season. They won their season. This is what McLuhan called 'the dinosaur effect.' CBS has blown to its biggest size just before extinction.''
        Mr. Klein also enjoyed modest fame in the television industry for his theory that viewers do not turn on their sets seeking their favorite shows, but rather the least objectionable program, or ''the L.O.P.''
        Mr. Klein returned to NBC in 1976 as executive vice president for programming. He championed the concept of ''event programming,'' with special shows and live broadcasts in place of weekly series. NBC's first fall schedule after Mr. Klein's return featured a 90-minute slot on Sunday nights for ''The Big Event.''
        Some of the mini-series and movies that NBC broadcast under the idea of event programming were ''Holocaust,'' ''Shogun,'' ''Centennial'' and ''Sybil.''
        Mr. Klein left NBC a second time in 1979 and founded PKO Television, an independent production company. In 1981, he produced ''The People vs. Jean Harris,'' the first drama for which the script was taken entirely from a real court transcript.
        In the 1990's, Mr. Klein renewed his involvement with the networks, producing specials for CBS and NBC.
        Mr. Klein is survived by his wife, Janet; two children, Molly, of Manhattan, and Adam, of Brooklyn, and one grandchild.
      