
        Robert S. Burger, a former journalist and professor who later spent more than three decades teaching business executives how to write, died on July 5 at Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. He was 84 and lived in West Chester.
        Mr. Burger, who was a reporter for The St. Paul Pioneer Press and The Courier-Journal of Louisville, Ky., early in his career, entered the business of teaching concise, effective writing to business people in the late 1950's.
        In 1958, when he was teaching at the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth College, Mr. Burger was approached by the American Management Association to create and give a writing course for executives.
        Mr. Burger remained at Dartmouth until 1961, but demand for the writing course became so great that he finally chose to leave and form his own business, Burger Associates.
        Over the next 30 years, his clients included executives from some 70 corporations and organizations.
        Mr. Burger encapsulated the course, which ran from one to three days, in a book, ''How to Write so People Can Understand You'' (the Management Development Institute), which was published in 1969.
        ''It was a very well-structured course,'' said Klaus Wagner, a planning manager at the Mobil Corporation, who took the course a decade ago.
        ''No one really said much about my writing except that it was too dense,'' Mr. Wagner said. ''The course helped me to try and cut down on that.''
        For many years, Mr. Burger taught the course by himself.
        But in the late 1970's he hired a friend of his son Robert Burger Jr. as an instructor. The young teacher, Dave Barry, subsequently went on to become a best-selling author and Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for The Miami Herald.
        In promotional literature for the course, Mr. Barry says it ''teaches techniques you won't find taught anywhere else, techniques I use every day in my own writing.''
        A native of the Bronx, Mr. Burger enrolled in the City College of New York at age 14 and graduated with a B.A. in foreign languages. He subsequently earned a master's degree in journalism from the University of Minnesota.
        A staff sergeant during World War II, Mr. Burger later joined the Society of Friends and became a pacifist. He was active in the civil rights and antiwar movements and remained involved in other Quaker and human-rights causes.
        Mr. Burger is survived by his wife, Elisabeth, of West Chester; four sons, Robert Jr. and Grant, of Thornbury Township, Pa., and William and James, of West Chester, and 12 grandchildren.
      