
        The Rev. George H. Dunne, a Jesuit priest who was an impassioned critic of racial segregation and prominent in ecumenical efforts to combat poverty and foster peace, died on June 30 in a hospital in Los Gatos, Calif., outside San Jose, near the Jesuit retirement community where he had been living. He was 92.
        Father Dunne was also a student of Chinese theology and language, a playwright and an author. But he was best known for his criticism in the 1940's of racial segregation, particularly in Roman Catholic institutions.
        ''He was basically a prophetic voice for social justice long before his time,'' said the Rev. Paul Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, a Jesuit institution in Santa Clara, Calif. ''He talked about racism back in the 1940's. He predicted in 1933 that if we did not develop democratic leaders in China, it would fall to the Communists within 30 years.''
        Father Dunne made that prediction after spending a year as a missionary in China.
        Later, after receiving a doctorate in international relations in 1944 from the University of Chicago, he went to work at the Institute of Social Order, a new program at St. Louis University, another Jesuit institution, that was meant to respond to social problems and increase Jesuits' awareness of them.
        But as things turned out, he was transferred to California after strongly expressing his opposition to racial discrimination at the university. In 1946, in an article published in the influential Catholic lay magazine Commonweal, he branded segregation a sin. (He was later called one of the first prominent Roman Catholics to have done so.) In that article, he contended, among other things, that segregation constituted a breach of justice.
        A year earlier he had written a play, ''Trial by Fire,'' that described the bombing of a black family that had moved into a Los Angeles neighborhood restricted to whites. The play was performed in 1947 and 1948 in Los Angeles and Chicago and at the Blackfriars Theater in New York.
        Father Dunne spent much time and energy combating prejudice: writing articles, making speeches and taking part in numerous civil rights demonstrations, including several led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
        In 1968, Pope Paul VI and the Rev. Eugene Carson Blake, the general secretary of the World Council of Churches, named him the first director of the Committee on Society, Development and Peace, an ecumenical group based in Geneva.
        Father Dunne wrote later in ''The King's Pawn: The Memoirs of George Dunne, S.J.'' (Loyola Press, 1990) that the committee's ''stated purpose was to focus attention upon the problems of poverty, especially in the third world, and upon the imperatives of peace.''
        ''Through the churches,'' he added, ''it proposed to quicken the consciences first of Christians, and then of all men and women, to their moral responsibility to concern themselves with the issues.''
        He and other members of the committee traveled widely and held conferences in Lebanon, Japan, South Korea and elsewhere. At a conference in 1968 in the mountains above Beirut, participants blamed a lack of political will, among rich and poor nations alike, for inadequate economic growth in most emerging nations.
        Pope Paul VI sent a special blessing to that gathering, and messages from him and leaders of the World Council of Churches emphasized the importance of joint Christian action in the sphere of international cooperation.
        After four years as director of the committee, Father Dunne retired from the post. The panel expired not long afterward.
        Father Dunne's chief literary work was ''Generation of Giants'' (1962), about Matteo Ricci and other Jesuit missionaries who worked in China during the Ming and Manchu dynasties. His view was that those missionaries' lives had provided a lesson for the present day by adapting Christianity and humanism to the culture of China and not imposing Western ways on the Chinese.
        A relative of the American humorist and journalist Finley Peter Dunne and the author Dominick Dunne, Father Dunne was born in St. Louis, grew up in Los Angeles and studied at various institutions, receiving a bachelor's degree from Loyola College in Los Angeles and a master's from Gonzaga University in Spokane, Wash.
        In later years, his activities included teaching at Loyola and at Santa Clara and serving as the president's assistant for international programs at Geogetown University.
        Father Dunne is survived by six nieces and two nephews.
      