
        Mahbub ul Haq, a former Finance Minister of Pakistan and an early proponent of economic liberalization who in later years argued that poor countries failed to prosper because they neglected the basic development of their people, died yesterday in New York. He was 64.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said his son, Farhan, a reporter for the Inter Press Service, a news agency. The elder Mr. Haq, who was visiting New York from Pakistan, collapsed early this week and did not respond to treatment, former colleagues said.
        Mr. Haq, who had also been a governor of the International Monetary Fund and director of policy planning at the World Bank, was the author of several books, including ''The Poverty Curtain'' (Columbia University Press) and ''Strategy of Economic Planning'' (Oxford University Press).
        But he is best known for his creation in 1990 of an annual Human Development Index, a measure used by the United Nations Development Program to measure the wealth of nations by the level of living standards their citizens have attained.
        His views did not make him popular in many developing countries, nor in some Western capitals, where he also criticized foreign aid policies and domestic social programs.
        A scrappy and articulate debater, he relished the controversies he provoked. He traveled extensively to speak and gather information and impressions for the United Nations' annual Human Development Report, which was built around his index.
        James Gustave Speth, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, said, ''I don't think anybody did more or even as much as Mahbub did to bring balance back to development thinking when everyone else was worshiping at the altar of G.N.P. growth.''
        After leaving the United Nations Development Program in 1995, Mr. Haq returned to Pakistan to establish the Human Development Center for South Asia with the help of his wife, Khadija Khanum, an economist. Measures of human progress in the region, especially in India and Pakistan, had begun to slip badly.
        ''After producing seven global Human Development Reports, I had to face the sad reality that the real challenge to human development lay back home, in Pakistan and South Asia,'' he said. ''South Asia has been sinking fast into a quagmire of human deprivation and despair, emerging as the most deprived region of the world.''
        Mr. Haq, who is survived by his daughter, Toneema, as well as his wife and son, studied at Punjab University in Pakistan, King's College in Cambridge, Yale and Harvard.
        He was born on Feb. 22, 1934, and while still in his 20's he became the chief economist of Pakistan's national planning commission. In the 1980's, under the late President Mohammad Zia-ul Haq, he served as Minister of Commerce, Planning and Finance. He moved to Washington and the World Bank in 1988.
        The founder of the Third World Forum, a panel for discussing development issues, Mr. Haq was also an adviser to the Brandt Commission, which looked into economic relations between the rich and poor nations.
        In his spare time, he was a great reader of literature and poetry. In 1985 he wrote a volume of poems titled ''An Elusive Dawn.''
        ''I have struggled for a long time with the concept and practice of development,'' Mr. Haq wrote in the preface to the first Report on Human Development in South Asia, in 1997. ''Emerging from the Western citadels of learning -- Cambridge, Yale, Harvard -- in the 1950's, I was armed with the firm neoclassical conviction that the real purpose of development was to increase national income.'' Over half a century, he increasingly doubted that analysis.
        ''There is widespread consensus today,'' he wrote, ''that the purpose of development is not just to enlarge incomes but to enlarge people's choices, and that these choices extend to a decent education, good health, political freedom, cultural identity, personal security , community participation, environmental security and many other areas of human well-being.
        ''A link between growth and human lives must be created through conscious national planning.''
      