
        Robert Howe Connery, a prolific author as well as a teacher and administrator, died on July 3 at a retirement community in Falls Church, Va. He was 90.
        Dr. Connery taught at various universities for over four decades. He was the author, co-author or editor of more than a score of books, including a classic study, ''Rockefeller of New York: Executive Power in the Statehouse,'' written with Gerald Benjamin.
        ''I came across 'Rockefeller of New York' shortly after it was published in 1979,'' Gov.-elect Mario M. Cuomo said in December 1982. ''It told me more about the workings of state government than all the other pertinent books, monographs, articles and white papers I had read combined.''
        Dr. Connery served Mayor Robert F. Wagner as Deputy City Administrator in 1965. He previously acted as senior consultant to the State Commission on Governmental Operations of the City of New York and executive secretary of the city's Committee on Modern Zoning. After his retirement from Columbia in 1976, city administrators continued to consult with him for some time.
        He was president of the Academy of Political Science from 1966 to 1986 and edited some 40 volumes of its proceedings. His scholarly writings ranged widely over Federal, state and local issues. Even his 1935 doctoral dissertation, ''Governmental Problems in Wildlife Conservation,''  stirred considerable interest. It led to his debut as a government consultant in a dispute between New York and New Jersey over shad fisheries in the Hudson River. It was followed by a similar undertaking involving fisheries of the Great Lakes. That eventually helped shape a treaty between Canada and the United States.
        He was born in St. Paul and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1929. He received his master's degree there in 1930 and his doctorate in 1935 from Columbia, where he was an instructor at the time. During World War II, he served as a naval officer and historian on the staff of James V. Forrestal, the Secretary of the Navy, attaining the rank of commander. The experience prompted him to write, with Richard Leach, ''The Navy and the Industrial Mobilization in World War II'' (1951), and, with Robert G. Albion, ''Forrestal and the Navy'' (1962), which covered Forrestal's years in the Navy Department and the rapid expansion of the American armada he oversaw.  After the war Dr. Connery taught at the Catholic University of America, Stanford, the University of Illinois and Duke before he returned to Columbia in 1966 as a professor of government. He served as a senior staff member for the Brookings Institution in the early 1950's, conducting surveys of foreign affairs, NATO and the United Nations.
        The many books, chapters and articles he wrote or edited covered urban riots, municipal taxes, economic affairs, the unionization of city workers and sundry other subjects. A reprint of his 1935 dissertation is in print even today, as is ''The Politics of Mental Health'' (1968) and ''The Federal Government and Metropolitan Areas'' (1978).
        Dr. Connery, who never married, leaves no immediate survivors.
      