
        Martin Seymour-Smith, a British literary critic, biographer, editor and poet whose more than 40 books ranged from an annotated compilation of Shakespeare's ''Sonnets'' in the original spelling to stylish, opinionated biographies of Rudyard Kipling, Robert Graves and Thomas Hardy, died on July 1 at his home in Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, England. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a family friend.
        Celebrated for his broad range of intellectual interests, his grace as a poet and his sharpness as a critic, Mr. Seymour-Smith was perhaps best known for his ''Guide to Modern World Literature,'' which was published in 1973 and revised and expanded in 1986 as ''The Macmillan Guide to Modern World Literature.'' The book was such a thorough study of 20th-century poetry, drama and fiction that some critics doubted it was the work of one person -- until they read it and found Mr. Seymour-Smith's distinctive voice and deeply felt opinions in every entry.
        Mr. Seymour-Smith's whimsical sensibility and relish in not pulling his critical punches could be seen, too, in books like ''Who's Who in 20th-Century Literature'' (1976), in which he offered succinct, pungent analyses of various literary figures. Of Ayn Rand, for example, he said, ''Her crypto-totalitarian and ultra-simplistic ideas have had some influence on the conservatively bred young, since they allow people to be ruthless without a bad conscience.''
        Martin Seymour-Smith was born in London in 1928, the son of a poet who wrote under the name Elena Fearn and a well-known librarian. After graduating from Oxford, he worked as a schoolmaster (at one point, he taught math to the young Stephen Hawking) and as a tutor to the poet Robert Graves's children on the island of Majorca. His friendship with Graves lasted until Graves's death and formed the basis for Mr. Seymour-Smith's scholarly 1982 biography, ''Robert Graves: His Life and Work,'' of which Stephen Spender wrote: ''It is such an extraordinarily lively book that I can almost believe in another miracle. It brings Graves into the room.''
        Mr. Seymour-Smith's biography of Kipling raised hackles by strongly suggesting that its subject was gay. And his biography of Thomas Hardy was marked by an often amusingly combative stance toward critics of the author's work. Reacting to Henry James's attacks on Hardy, for instance, Mr. Seymour-Smith said that James ''did not fully understand poetry: only enough to fear it.''
        In between criticism, scholarly work, reviews and biographies, Mr. Seymour-Smith wrote a half-dozen slim collections of poetry of his own, of which the most celebrated was ''Reminiscences of Norma'' (1971), which had at its center a series of 13 poems exploring sexual love in all its frantic excitement and excruciating pain.
        Though remarkably well read and learned -- according to one friend, he had a ''reading knowledge'' of 20 different languages -- Mr. Seymour-Smith never took himself too seriously, delighting in irony, in humor and in provoking intellectual argument through expressions of outrageous opinion.
        Mr. Seymour-Smith once described himself as ''tense, malarial, angry as a bull when roused, stooped, ugly, clownish, bearded and a compulsive talker who seldom allows anyone else to get a word in.'' And somewhat unusually for literary Britain, he kept himself firmly away from the literary establishment, mistrusting its machinations and self-importance, and perhaps as a result never achieved the general renown that his many loyal and admiring friends felt he so richly deserved.
        He is survived by his wife, Janet, and two daughters, Miranda and Charley.
      