
        William I. Bertsche, who had such a rapid-fire way with recondite words that he spent his life rattling off more than a dozen languages into English, died on July 11 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., he was 79 and had been one of the nation's leading document translators for more than half a century.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        A specialist in legal and technical documents, Mr. Bertsche was a master at translating a contract, a deed or a patent written in, say, leaden German, into satisfyingly turgid English.
        In a field in which there is no substitute for the exact legal or technical phrase, Mr. Bertsche was a stickler for literal translations, no mean feat for a man who worked in Afrikaans, Danish, Dutch, French, Finnish, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Romanian, Spanish and Swedish -- as well as German, the only one he also spoke.
        As he was fond of telling his students during his years teaching German translation at New York University: ''Make sure your translation makes sense -- the author's sense, not yours.''
        What set Mr. Bertsche apart from other translators was not only that he could sight read so many languages but that he could translate them faster than he could speak with normal clarity, much to the consternation of those who had to transcribe his blue-streak dictation.
        Even so, once the transcribers got the hang of his high-speed mumble, they and Mr. Bertsche could turn out hundreds of pages of meticulously translated pages a day.
        To say that Mr. Bertsche (pronounced BERT-a-shee), came by his facility for languages naturally would be an understatement. The Lawyers' and Merchants' Translation Bureau, a family business that he joined in 1946 and continued to work for after he sold it in 1992, had been established by his mother, Hertha Woelfler, in 1903 and had proved a lifesaver for his German-born father, Carl.
        While the elder Mr. Bertsche was on a business trip to New York, the German bank that employed him failed, stranding him without funds until he fortuitously met and fell in love with Miss Woelfler, married her and joined her business. The couple continued to operate the bureau until they retired in 1966 and turned the business over to their son.
        For all the family influence, the younger Mr. Bertsche, who was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Richmond Hill, Queens, seems to have made an early effort to find another line of work.
        After receiving degrees in English and chemical engineering from Columbia, he obtained a law degree from Fordham in 1943 and practiced briefly as a patent lawyer before joining the Army and serving as a German translator and interpreter for the Counter-Intelligence Corps in France and Germany in the later stages of World War II.
        After his discharge in 1946 the lucrative lure of the family business proved too tempting to pass up for a man with a wife and young children, especially one whose background in law and engineering were perfect complements to the work of translating legal and technical documents.
        There was also a certain appeal in doing work that required only a document and a Dictaphone. Although he did most of his translating from an office at 11 Broadway, with a view of the Statue of Liberty, Mr. Bertsche, who once lived in New Jersey, sometimes dictated his translations on the train, which explains why a son commuting with him to New York would take the precaution of securing a seat far away from his father.
        In addition to work that made him indispensable to many of New York's leading law firms and other international businesses, Mr. Bertsche played a major role in elevating commercial translation into a respected national profession during a period of rapid growth in the demand for translators.
        As a son recalled, when Mr. Bertsche began his career, there were only two or three translating services listed in the Manhattan Yellow Pages. In the current edition, the listings are spread over more than seven pages.
        An early member of the American Translators Association, Mr. Bertsche, who served two terms as the association's president in the 1970's, was credited with producing a significant expansion of the association's membership and with instituting a widely recognized testing and accreditation process.
        Mr. Bertsche, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Alison; three sons, Copeland, of Montclair, N.J., William, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Robert, of Needham, Mass.; a daughter, Louise, of Sedona, Ariz.; two stepchildren, Alison Gode-von Aesch of Croton-on-Hudson and William Gode-von Aesch of Santa Monica, Calif.; a brother, Edwin, of Augusta, Ga.; a sister, Edith Mitchell of Kailua, Hawaii, 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      