
        Henry Rawle Geyelin Jr., a retired New York business executive who helped start Operation Sail for the 1976 Bicentennial and the tall ships' birthday salute to the Statue of Liberty in 1986, died July 5 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 79 and also had a home in Seal Harbor, Me.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Geyelin retired in 1988 as president of the Council of the Americas in Manhattan, a business affiliate of the broader based Americas Society. He had assumed leadership of the council as executive vice president in 1969.
        The council, founded in 1965, is a forum for the consideration of economic, political and social issues from Canada to South America. When he took over, Mr. Geyelin was involved in Chase Manhattan Bank's overseas operations as vice president in the international department and executive secretary of the international advisory committee.
        He was an originator of the idea for Operation Sail to celebrate the country's 200th birthday with an international flotilla of tall ships in New York Harbor and up the Hudson River, and he played a leading role in its planning.
        He took part in getting the tall ships under sail for the 100th anniversary of the Statue of Liberty. Mr. Geyelin was a great-nephew of Emma Lazarus, whose sonnet ''The New Colossus'' is engraved on the statue's pedestal.
        A native of Manhattan, he graduated from Yale University in 1939 after majoring in American history. After his discharge from the Navy, in which he served as an officer in Cuba and the Pacific in World War II, he was an advertising executive at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. He joined Chase in 1960.
        He was a former member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a director of the Americas Society.
        He is survived by his daughter, Antoinette G. Hoar of Manhattan; a brother, Peter, of Philadelphia; a sister, Patricia G. Drexel of Northeast Harbor, Me., and two grandchildren.
      