
        Thomas Corwin Mendenhall, the sport of rowing's foremost American historian and a former president of Smith College, died on Saturday at Windemere, a long-term care facility on Martha's Vineyard, where he and his wife lived. He was 88.
        The cause was cardiac arrest after a long illness, said his wife, Cornelia Baker Mendenhall.
        Mr. Mendenhall was the president of Smith College in Northampton, Mass., from 1959 until he retired in 1979. He was a noted professor of history at Yale before that appointment.
        He wrote 10 books, earned numerous degrees and taught classes. His students, friends and family, however, remember his engaging humor and his many probing interests.
        Mr. Mendenhall grew up in Madison, Wis., the son of the chairman of the physics department at the University of Wisconsin, Charles E. Mendenhall. His mother, Dr. Dorothy R. Mendenhall, was a pediatrician.
        Mr. Mendenhall graduated from Andover and then from Yale in 1932. He went on to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar and was captain of the Balliol College crew there. He began teaching at Yale in 1937 and was named an associate professor in 1946.
        Among many assignments at Yale, Mr. Mendenhall served as Master of Berkeley College and coach of the Berkeley crew.
        The sport always had his passionate attention, and among his books are ''A Short History of American Rowing'' and ''The Harvard-Yale Boat Race 1852-1924.'' The boat race book went beyond that event and justified its subtitle, ''The Coming of Sport to the American College.'' Mr. Mendenhall also wrote ''Have Oar Will Travel,'' a history of Yale's 1956 crew team, which won an Olympic gold medal in Melbourne, Australia.
        Mrs. Mendenhall recalled that her husband was always busy when he was teaching. During a typical day at Yale, she said, he might teach three classes, attend two meetings, coach the Berkeley crew, advise students and help clean up the dining hall in advance of a rehearsal of the Berkeley Players.
        There was not much room to sit down in Mr. Mendenhall's small office, one jammed to its ceiling with books and papers.
        Howard Lamar, a history professor and later the interim president of Yale, told of a meeting of the history department faculty in Mr. Mendenhall's office at which someone pulled out a drawer to sit on. In the drawer was a paper bag that contained a forgotten sandwich. It was not an example of an absent-minded professor, but of a busy one.
        Mr. Mendenhall continued to teach history at Smith, and he also worked to bring the four neighboring colleges of the Connecticut Valley into closer contact.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Mendenhall is survived by two daughters, Bethany Mendenhall and Cornelia Small, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Mendenhall remained busy during his retirement at Vineyard Haven on Martha's Vineyard, close to the ocean that had meant so much to him. The most popular course he taught at Yale was the History of Sea Power, and at the Vineyard what he liked to do best was to take his sloop out for a sail on Nantucket Sound.
      