
        Dr. David H. Nichols, a surgeon whose research on pelvic reconstruction and incontinence focused attention on the long-neglected medical needs of women in their 60's, 70's and 80's, died on Wednesday in his office at Brown University. He was 72 and lived in Providence, R.I.
        The cause was heart failure, family members said.
        From the 1970's on, Dr. Nichols worked successfully to establish a new medical subspecialty within gynecology that covers the range of medical problems of older women.
        The subspecialty Dr. Nichols developed is now known as urogynecology and pelvic reconstructive surgery. It has in the last five years become a standard part of training in American medical schools, said Dr. Donald R. Coustan, who succeeded Dr. Nichols as chairman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Brown and as department head at Women and Infants' Hospital of Rhode Island, in Providence.
        ''He died the way he would have wanted it to be: seeing a patient in the late afternoon at the Center for Women's Surgery, which he had created,'' Dr. Coustan said. ''He believed the hidden problems of the quality of life of older women was a huge issue.''
        Recent commercials for diapers for elderly women are evidence that medical circles and society are bringing problems like incontinence into the mainstream, as Dr. Nichols sought. But Dr. Nichols's goal was to eliminate the need for such products by developing techniques to reconstruct the muscles and tissues of the pelvic floor, said Dr. Dionysios Veronikis, a gynecologist in St. Louis who trained under Dr. Nichols at Harvard University.
        At his death, Dr. Nichols was an active professor at Brown, having returned from five years at Harvard, where he was a professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive medicine and chief of pelvic reconstructive surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital.
        From 1980 to 1991, as the ob-gyn department chairman at Brown, he developed new programs in women's oncology and reproductive endocrinology and fashioned new instruments and surgical approaches for some of the most complex areas of women's health, Dr. Coustan said.
        Typical of Dr. Nichols's practice would be a woman in her 70's, incontinent, with genital prolapse, in which pelvic organs drop and sometimes protrude through the vaginal opening. He would provide urinary reconstructive pelvic surgery, which was his personal specialty and about which he lectured throughout the world.
        In such a case, he would use a operation called sacrospinous fixation, the rebuilding of a weakened pelvic floor, by sewing the ligaments to the lowest part of the spine.
        ''This would often solve a miserable life style, one in which women could not be active,'' Dr. Coustan said. ''Many would not go outside their homes because these pelvic organs lacked the support to stay in their proper place.''
        Dr. Nichols was a founding member of the national board for the medical subspecialty that he had founded within obstetrics and gynecology, and wrote a dozen major medical textbooks, several still in use by medical schools.
        He was born in Utica, N.Y., and received his M.D. in 1947 at the University of Buffalo School of Medicine.
        In 1954 he joined the University of Buffalo School of Medicine. In 1980, he became department chairman at Brown and served to 1992.
        He was one of two Americans named to the Vatican committee on biogenetics and bioengineering.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Lorraine Landel Nichols; three daughters, Laurie L. Cochran of Wellesley, Mass., Nancie N. Svensen of Miami, and Julie L. Nichols of Washington; two sons, David L., of El Paso, and Daniel A., of Arlington, Va., and six grandchildren.
      