
        Frank Xavier Altimari, a senior Federal appeals judge who wrote the ruling that affirmed the ban on begging in city subways and transit terminals, died on Sunday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 69.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his daughter, Vera Shields.
        As a judge, he played a central role in a number of noteworthy cases, in particular the one in 1990 involving the New York City subway system and its authority to prohibit panhandling. A Federal district judge had sided with lawyers for the homeless who argued that beggars were within their constitutional rights, practicing a form of free speech.
        A panel of the Federal Court of Appeals overruled that judge, 2 to 1, in unusually tart language, with an opinion written by Judge Altimari. The decision was later upheld by the United States Supreme Court.
        Judge Altimari wrote that ''whether intended as so, or not, begging in the subway often amounts to nothing less than assault, creating in the passengers the apprehension of imminent danger.'' He chastised the lower court for honoring beggars' rights while snubbing the concerns of the system's millions of riders. The same ruling upheld a state law that makes it illegal to loiter in transit terminals for the purpose of begging.
        In a case known as Doe v. New York City, he wrote for a unanimous court in 1994 that a person has a constitutional right to privacy about whether he is infected with H.I.V. The plaintiff, known as John Doe, sued the city, saying his rights were violated with a news release reporting a city-brokered settlement of a job-discrimination claim that he had filed against Delta Air Lines.
        While the release did not name him, the plaintiff contended that its content allowed others to identify him. Judge Altimari wrote the 17-page opinion in that case.
        In a 1992 case, a court panel also was unanimous in turning down the descendants of a British loyalist who sought to reclaim the 445-acre Robins Island, near the eastern edge of Long Island, to keep it as a nature preserve. It had been seized by New York State during the Revolution.
        Writing for the court, Judge Altimari said the descendants, the Wickhams, were a tad late. ''Whatever else we can surmise from the historical record,'' he held, ''it is clear that even if Joseph Parker Wickham had a right to title in Robins Island, he and his heirs slept on this right for over two centuries.''
        Judge Altimari, a former Nassau County and State Supreme Court judge, was named to the Federal bench in Brooklyn by President Ronald Reagan in 1982. Three years later, President Reagan elevated him to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, whose jurisdiction encompasses Connecticut, New York and Vermont.
        He sat as a judge in Manhattan and at the Long Island courthouse in Uniondale, N.Y., where he continued to handle cases until early March. As a senior judge, he retired from regular active service but continued working as requested by the chief judge of the court.
        Judge Altimari established a wider reputation when his efficiency as administrator of the Long Island courts kept the system manageable in a spate of negligence suits that threatened to overwhelm it. His success reflected his experience as a busy negligence-trial lawyer in Mineola before he became a Nassau County district judge in 1970.
        A native of Ridgewood, Queens, he graduated from St. Francis College in Brooklyn in 1948 and Brooklyn Law School in 1951. He practiced law with Hoffmann & Altimari before going on the bench.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Huntington, N.Y., he is survived by his wife of 46 years, Angela Scavuzzo Altimari; three sons, Anthony, of Bayville, N.Y., Nicholas, of Midlothian, Va., and Dr. Michael, of Hicksville, N.Y.; a sister, Virginia LaFace of Farmingdale, N.Y.; a brother, Carmine, of Stony Brook, N.Y., and 11 grandchildren.
      