
        Joseph Maher, a veteran character actor of extraordinary range who was best known for his roles in the mordant comedies of Joe Orton, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said Joan Scott, his agent.
        Over more than four decades, Mr. Maher built a career as one of the most versatile and skilled character actors on Broadway, and he appeared in such well-known films as ''Heaven Can Wait'' with Warren Beatty and ''Sister Act'' with Whoopi Goldberg. He defined the working actor, appearing in everything from episodes of ''Seinfeld'' and ''Thirtysomething'' to plays in London and  American touring productions.
        ''He had incredible wit and style, and he could be subversive and affirmative at the same time,'' said the producer Scott Rudin. ''He could send up and embrace it at the same time. He was the kind of actor that doesn't exist so much anymore.''
        Mr. Maher was born in Westport, County Galway, Ireland, on Dec. 29, 1933. The son of a schoolteacher, he said he did not see a movie until he was 10 or a play until he was a teen-ager. He emigrated in 1956 to Canada, where he began working for an oil company. But he soon became interested in theater. He studied at the Royal Conservatory in Toronto, played his first professional performance in a Toronto production of ''The Taming of the Shrew'' and then toured Canada for three years with the Canadian Players.
        He then moved to New York. Among his early credits were roles in ''The Hostage,'' with Julie Harris, ''Eh?,'' with Dustin Hoffman, and ''The Local Stigmatic,'' with Al Pacino. He also appeared in ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.'' Early film performances included a role in ''Finnegan's Wake.''
        He was nominated for Tony Awards for performances in ''Spokesong,'' ''Night and Day'' and ''Loot.''
        With his big frame, booming voice, silver hair, sky-blue eyes and ruddy complexion, Mr. Maher was a familiar figure for generations of theatergoers, appearing in David Mamet's ''American Buffalo'' and James Roose-Evans's adaptation of ''84 Charing Cross Road.''
        But he was best known, working for the most part with the director John Tillinger, for his roles in works  by the British playwright Joe Orton, who died in 1967.
        Mr. Maher appeared in all three of the full-length Orton plays -- ''What the Butler Saw,'' ''Loot'' and ''Entertaining Mr. Sloane'' -- often playing bumbling, befuddled authority figures without much authority.
        Mr. Maher later branched out into television and film roles. Among his best-known film performances were as Mr. Beatty's butler in ''Heaven Can Wait'' and as the bishop in ''Sister Act.''
        He is survived by four sisters, Maureen Hogan of County Galway, Ireland; Bridie Ingham of Bristol, England; Eileen McCarthy of London, and Noreen Armstrong of Bedfordshire, England; and one brother, Thomas Maher of London.
        Mr. Maher (pronounced ma-HARR) took particular pleasure in the Orton plays, his collaboration with Mr. Tillinger, and capturing the manic black humor of characters like Truscott, the inept detective in ''Loot,'' to whom he gave a tick of the right arm so that it swung wildly like a mad conductor whenever he bumbled through some absurd speech.
        Mr. Maher said the gesture came to him spontaneously during rehearsal, which was consistent with the serendipitous approach he took to all his roles, particularly those associated with the goofy, dark cadences of Mr. Orton's plays.
        As he once said of working with Mr. Tillinger: ''We discover everything together. It's no good to have someone tell you to fall on your left ear and slide down the stairs. Like Orton, John sees the absurd in everything. I don't think you can do these plays unless you've got that quirk.''
      