
        Bob McAllister, who talked his way into a television career without moving his lips, became the host of an acclaimed children's show, then made magic his metier, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 and best known for his decade as the ebullient, Buster Brown-coiffed host of ''Wonderama.''
        His family said the cause was a respiratory ailment that he would have learned yesterday had been diagnosed as lung cancer.
        By the time Mr. McAllister replaced Sonny Fox as host of the three-hour Sunday morning children's extravaganza known as ''Wonderama,'' in 1967, the show had been on the air for more than a dozen years.
        But Mr. McAllister quickly made it his own, enthralling children with  magic tricks, supervising the games and contests for children in the interactive studio audience, introducing the cartoons, and, for a while, even making his shaggy dog, Ralph, a part of the cast.
        In the early years of his run, Mr. McAllister often worked with his faithful sidekick, Chauncey, a ventriloquist's dummy to whom he owed his entire career.
        A native of Philadelphia who grew up in Norfolk, Va., Mr. McAllister became fascinated with magic and ventriloquism at 10. In high school he  spent so much time practicing his hobbies (and so little time doing his homework) that his despairing parents promised to buy him a dummy if he ever turned in a report card with all A's and B's.
        The next month, his mother recalled yesterday, her son made at least a B in all his classes, and she paid $45 for his reward, the dummy he named Chauncey.
        A few years later, during a 1953  family trip to New York in honor of his high school graduation, as his parents slept, he slipped out of his hotel room with Chauncey and stationed himself outside the windows of NBC's ''Today'' show. The host, Dave Garroway, was so charmed that he summoned Mr. McAllister into the studio and later helped him get on Ted Mack's ''Amateur Hour,'' which he won.
        After a brief college stint, Mr. McAllister became host of a children's program in Norfolk and later moved to a station in Baltimore before getting his ''Wonderama'' job.
        Although the show, which was produced by Metromedia, was seen only in New York and half a dozen other cities, they were all major television markets, and for most of his run Mr. McAllister owned the Sunday morning airways, attracting half the Sunday morning audience, according to Nielsen ratings.
        (It was a reflection of television's attitude toward children's programming at the time that when ''Wonderama'' was withdrawn at the end of 1977, Metromedia attributed the cancellation to a ratings decline that had left the show with a meager 36 percent of the audience.)
        It was an index of the show's appeal to children from 4 to 15 that at  the final taping, in December 1977, one of those in the studio audience of 200 ''children'' was a 21-year-old who had applied for his coveted ticket eight years earlier.
        Within a year of the cancellation, Mr. McAllister had developed a new show, ''Kids Are People, Too,'' (named for his ''Wonderama'' theme song) for ABC, but although the show won an Emmy, Mr. McAllister, in his 40's, was replaced as host after a few months by a younger man.
        Chauncey had long since been retired, but Mr. McAllister's old love of magic pulled him through. In addition to touring the country, performing at amusement parks and elsewhere and lecturing on the magician's art, he developed and manufactured magician's tricks, among them one known as Molly McBubble (whose durable bubbles Mr. McAllister would catch, put in his pocket and retrieve intact).
        Mr. McAllister, whose work was honored by the Society of American Magicians and the International Brotherhood of Magicians, taught magic at adult classes at Stuyvesant High School and reached a new generation of children through a video, ''Bob McAllister's Amazing Magic.''
        Always a child at heart, until he became ill a few months ago, Mr. McAllister made his rounds of Manhattan magic supply shops on skates.
        Mr. McAllister, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by his mother, Peg McAllister of Virginia Beach, Va.; three daughters, Susan Abbott of Clearwater, Fla., Robin McAllister of Manhattan and Molly Jo McAllister of Ossining, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      