
        Buck Mickel, who helped bring about the corporate marriage that created the modern Fluor Corporation in 1977, died on Thursday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 72.
        A Fluor spokeswoman said that Mr. Mickel, who had seemed in good health, had apparently died in his sleep. No cause of death has been determined, she said.
        Mr. Mickel was the chairman of the Daniel International Corporation, a large construction company based in Greenville, when Fluor became interested in the company in 1977. At the time, Fluor was principally a maker of industrial equipment for the petroleum industry.
        When Fluor sought to acquire Daniel, Mr. Mickel held out through polite negotiations until Fluor increased the price it was willing to pay. He neither urged nor discouraged the deal, telling reporters that shareholders should decide on their own but that a majority of the Daniel board had decided to accept Fluor's offer.
        From that deal grew Fluor Daniel, the principal subsidiary of today's Fluor Corporation, an international engineering, construction and diversified services company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Mickel was appointed chairman of Fluor's engineering and construction group in 1982 and was named vice chairman and president of the parent company in 1984. He retired from his executive positions in March 1987 but remained a director of the company until early this year.
        Born in Elberton, Ga., Mr. Mickel graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1947 after serving in the military during World War II. He also served for three years during the Korean War as a first lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers.
        He began his professional career in 1948 at the Daniel Construction Company, advancing through several management positions. In 1965, he was named president of the company after the death of its founder, Charles E. Daniel. He was elected chairman of the board in 1974, just three years before the Fluor deal.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Mickel was chairman and chief executive of the RSI Corporation, a small company he operated from offices in Greenville, and was a director of several corporations, including the Duke Power Company.
        He was a life trustee of Clemson University and Converse College and chairman of the Daniel/Mickel Foundation.
        Mr. Mickel is survived by his wife of 52 years, Minor Herndon Mickel; two sons, Buck Alston Mickel and Charles Clark Mickel, and a daughter, Minor Mickel Shaw, all of Greenville, and six grandchildren.
      