
        Abraham I. Katsh, a scholar of Judaica and Hebrew studies who introduced modern Hebrew to American university classrooms, and a relentless researcher who persuaded the Soviet authorities to allow him to reproduce thousands of Jewish documents in their custody at the height of the cold war, died on Tuesday at DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
        His family said they believed that he was 92.
        Scholars said last week that Dr. Katsh's findings in the Soviet Union had signaled the world that a treasure trove of Jewish history and thought lay in the countries under Soviet domination. They said the documents, from collections that had been kept private, had contributed significantly to the recovery of knowledge about Jewish culture in the Middle Ages.
        From 1967 to 1976, Dr. Katsh was president of Dropsie College in Philadelphia, a graduate school in Judaic studies that was later absorbed by the University of Pennsylvania. He was a professor at both Dropsie and New York University, where he rose from instructor to distinguished research professor and chairman of the department of Hebrew studies.
        He founded the university's Library of Judaica and Hebraica, and a chair was endowed in his name at the university. And for 18 years he was director of the American Israel Student and Professorial Workshop conducted in Israel and co-sponsored by the State Department and Federal Office of Education.
        His scholarly production encompasses more than 20 books and hundreds of articles and essays.
        The son and grandson of rabbis, Dr. Katsh immigrated to New York from Poland in 1925 speaking not a word of English, and within eight years persuaded New York University to add modern Hebrew to its curriculum. It was a result of a campaign of sheer persistence, his son Salem said last week, and an effort not unlike others that he would undertake throughout his career.
        ''My father,'' said Mr. Katsh, ''kept filibustering the chancellor, Harry Woodburn Chase, pleading with him to authorize a course in modern Hebrew. Finally the chancellor said: 'Mr. Katsh, you're harassing me. What is the relevance of Hebrew in America?' My father responded, 'You're already speaking Hebrew, and you don't even know it.'
        ''He explained that the word 'harass' is related to the Hebrew word 'haroos,' which means to destroy or create havoc, much like 'harass' does. The chancellor gave in, and that was the beginning of Hebrew in American colleges.''
        Dr. Katsh's tenacity paid off again in 1956 when he talked the Soviet officials into granting him access to libraries containing historic Jewish documents and manuscripts that had been hidden from Western view since the Russian Revolution of 1917.
        The papers, which had been collected by scholars in Russia before World War I and kept in private libraries and academies, were seized by the Government, removed from public view and placed in storage in Moscow and Leningrad.
        Dr. Katsh put thousands of the documents on microfilm, which was then made widely available to scholars. He made six subsequent trips, mainly in the 1960's, to collect more material. A great portion of the material is now at the Elmer Holmes Bobst Library at N.Y.U.
        The documents came from two collections. One was the Baron de Gunzberg collection of more than 1,900 pieces, mainly medieval manuscripts on all aspects of Judaica, including biblical commentaries, law, poetry and liturgy. The collection had been purchased by Russian Zionists from the baron's widow and was to have been given to the Jewish National Library in Jerusalem, but it was confiscated by the revolutionary Government.
        The other collection consisted of a quarter of a million pages and scraps of paper, known as the Cairo Geniza. Among them were 427 fragments of the original Talmud -- dating from the 7th through the 11th centuries -- that corrected some inaccurate interpretations of Talmudic material.
        In a 1979 interview with The New York Times, Dr. Katsh said the snippets of Talmud illustrated precisely what Jewish scholars did when faced with a contradiction in sacred text: they described new findings as different versions of old beliefs.
        ''Now the different version is in the writing,'' he said. ''For instance, in the 'Ethics of the Fathers,' it is written that one should not converse too much with a woman. How can that be? In Jewish law, it is believed that one who makes a woman cry destroys the world. Throughout the Talmud, the woman is protected. Now comes this material and adds two words to the effect that one should not speak too much to a woman while she is menstruating. That adds a lot and reinforces ethical practices and traditions about staying away from the woman at that time.''
        Noting the importance for scholars of Dr. Katsh's findings in Russia, Dr. Neil Danzig, a professor of Talmud and rabbinic literature at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan, said: ''He broke down the barriers of the Iron Curtain in the late 1950's for Jewish scholars and found an enormous treasure trove of unaccessible material. He was the font of all the material, and Jewish scholars from all over the world would turn to him to share with them. ''
        Survivors include Dr. Katsh's wife of 55 years, Estelle Wachtell Katsh; his sons, Salem, of Manhattan, and Ethan, of Longmeadow, Mass.; a daughter, Shelley Katsh of Pawtucket, R.I.; seven grandchildren, and two brothers, Rabbi Leon Katz of Clifton, N.J., and Rabbi Michael Katz of Kew Garden Hills, Queens.
        In a 1987 interview with a Jewish student newspaper at N.Y.U., speaking about his campaign for Judaic and Hebrew studies, Dr. Katsh described himself as a ''shnorrer,'' using a Yiddish expression for one who cajoles contributions out of people. ''I was met with a great deal of opposition,'' he said. ''The difficulties were incredible. Nobody acted in a normal way. They all felt that Hebrew was a dead language.''
        Today about 400 colleges and universities in the United States teach it.
      