
        Charles C. Tillinghast Jr., a lawyer, businessman and investment banker, who was chairman of Trans World Airlines and a former chancellor of Brown University, died July 25 at his summer home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 87.
        He died of heart disease, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Tillinghast, who built his career as a law partner at the New York firm of Hughes, Hubbard, Blair & Reed, went on to play a leading role in a handful of America's best-known companies, including Bendix, T.W.A. and Merrill Lynch.
        As T.W.A.'s chairman, Mr. Tillinghast steered the airline through considerable turbulence, including the oil crisis of 1973-74, winning credit for saving the airline from a disastrous combination of fast-rising fuel prices and falling ticket sales.
        The son of the late Charles C. and Adelaide Shaw Tillinghast, Charles Carpenter Tillinghast Jr. was born in Saxtons River, Vt., on Jan. 30, 1911. He attended the Horace Mann School in Riverdale, where his father was headmaster and from which he graduated in 1928. Four years later, Mr. Tillinghast graduated from Brown University, where he played center on the football team.
        After graduating from Columbia Law School in 1935, he spent three years as a Wall Street lawyer, and then worked for two years for the Manhattan District Attorney at the time, Thomas E. Dewey, before returning to Hughes, Hubbard, Blair & Reed. He became a partner in 1942.
        Mr. Tillinghast's law practice provided the foundation for a substantial business career. In 1957, he was appointed vice president and a director of the Bendix Corporation, the Detroit auto parts company that would eventually become part of the Allied Signal Corporation. Four years later, he was named president and chief executive of T.W.A., later becoming chairman. His management during a period of falling demand for air travel brought Mr. Tillinghast praise and the public eye, and his picture appeared on the cover of Time magazine.
        After retiring from T.W.A. in 1976, he became vice chairman of White, Weld & Company, the investment banker that was acquired by Merrill Lynch in 1978. The acquisition led to Mr. Tillinghast's becoming a vice chairman of Merrill Lynch, a post he held until his retirement in 1982.
        Mr. Tillinghast became a trustee of Brown University in 1954, and its 15th chancellor in 1967. Brown awarded him an honorary degree in 1967 and the Susan Colver Rosenberger Medal in 1982. In the last two years, two professorships were established there in his honor.
        Mr. Tillinghast is survived by his wife, Lisette Micoleau Tillinghast; a son, Charles C. Tillinghast 3d of La Jolla, Calif.; three daughters, Elizabeth Nadeau of Rochester, Jane Roberts of Stowe, Vt., and Anne Tillinghast of Providence, R.I.; two brothers, John A. Tillinghast of Exeter, N.H., and David R. Tillinghast of New York City; 12 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      