
        Harvie Branscomb, the chancellor of Vanderbilt University from 1946 to 1963, who put the institution on the path to national prominence, died on July 23 at his home in Nashville. He was 103.
        Dr. Branscomb was the first chairman of the United States Advisory Commission for Education Exchange, whose purpose was to keep alive the spirit of cooperation among Western nations and to combat Communism.
        In the 1950's, he was chairman of the Commission on Education and International Affairs of the American Council of Education. He later was educational consultant to the World Bank and a chairman of the United States Commission for Unesco as well as a member or officer of other international conferences and organizations formed to counter illiteracy and foster education.
        When Dr. Branscomb was named chancellor in 1946, he was only the fourth person to hold the office since Vanderbilt's founding in 1873. He proved an energetic and engaged leader.
        By the time he retired, Vanderbilt was on its way to the top tier of American research universities. The number of full-time faculty members had doubled, faculty salaries had almost tripled and the number of buildings on the campus had more than doubled. The university's annual budget increased by more than 400 percent, and the endowment jumped to $88 million from $38 million.
        From 1953 to 1962, the schools of engineering, divinity and law all acquired their own buildings and 15 additional residence halls were constructed. A history of the university, ''Gone With the Ivy'' (University of Tennessee Press, 1985), by Prof. Paul Conkin, asserted that at the end of Dr. Branscomb's tenure, Vanderbilt could count itself among the top 20 private universities in the United States.
        Throughout his long tenure, he was  a leading fund-raiser. In 1960, Dr. Branscomb became caught up in a fierce conflict that drew wide attention, over the expulsion of a black student from the divinity school. The student, James M. Lawson Jr., had been dismissed on grounds that he advocated civil disobedience as a leader of a civil rights sit-in in Nashville. At least a dozen faculty members, arguing that local ordinances had been used to deny blacks their constitutional rights, resigned.
        Dr. Branscomb tried to negotiate a compromise, but wound up angering many African-Americans and their supporters on the faculty with his statement, ''The law has been the basis for much of the Negro's progress in the past and is the guarantee of their continued progress.''
        Eventually, the dean of the divinity school, who had supported Mr. Lawson, was forced to resign, and Mr.  Lawson completed his studies at Boston University.
        In a memoir published in 1978, Dr. Branscomb acknowledged that ''with the advantage of hindsight, it appears to me now that the best course might have been to bury the issue in administrative procedures.''
        In 1996, the Rev. Dr. Lawson, who had become a Methodist pastor in Los Angeles, returned to Vanderbilt to receive the divinity school's Distinguished Alumnus Award, at which time he was warmly greeted by Dr. Branscomb.
        Educated at Birmingham College, later named Birmingham-Southern College, Dr. Branscomb won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he began his career as a New Testament scholar in 1914. He later published four books on the cultural and religious roots of Christianity.
        While at Oxford, Dr. Branscomb was among the group of American student volunteers who worked for Herbert Hoover's Commission for Relief in Belgium. He and a fellow student daringly smuggled a letter out of Belgium addressed to Belgian religious leaders encouraging resistance to the German invasion then under way. The letter, published in The Times of London, led to the decoration of Dr. Branscomb and his fellow student by the Belgian Government.
        After Oxford, he earned a doctorate in philosophy at Columbia University and later became dean of the divinity school at Duke University.
        A native of Huntsville, Ala., he is survived by three sons, Harvie Branscomb Jr. of Corpus Christi, Tex., Dr. Ben Branscomb of Birmingham, Ala., and Lewis M. Branscomb of Concord, Mass.; a brother, Lewis C. Branscomb of Columbus, Ohio; two sisters, Dr. Louise Branscomb and Mrs. Charles L. Dill, both of Birmingham; nine grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. Dr. Branscomb's wife of 71 years, Margaret, died in 1992.
      