
        Zevulun Hammer, Israel's Education Minister, leader of the National Religious Party and a founder of the movement to build Jewish settlements in occupied Arab territories, died today after a long bout with cancer. He was 61.
        Though Mr. Hammer led his party from being a relatively liberal ally of the Labor Party to being a conservative member of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's Likud coalition,  he was ultimately regarded as a moderate in a party that had become a hard-line advocate of Jewish settlements.
        The most likely successor as leader of the party, Transportation Minister Yitzhak Levy, is considered politically to the right of Mr. Hammer, and was therefore expected to shift Mr. Netanyahu's coalition even further rightward.
        The Cabinet held a special commemorative session for Mr. Hammer today, and in a statement issued in Washington, where Mr. Netanyahu is on a visit, he described the late minister as one of the ''pillars of the national renewal of the Jewish people in the Land of Israel.''
        Mr. Hammer was born in Haifa in 1936. He pursued Judaism and biblical studies at Bar Ilan University in Tel Aviv, and was an officer in a tank corps in the 1967 Middle East war.
        After the war, he became active in the National Religious Party, and helped found what was to become the Gush Emunim movement to establish Jewish settlements in the newly conquered territories.
        In its early years, when the strictly Orthodox Jews refused to take part in the Government, the National Religious Party was regarded as a religious adjunct of the secular Labor Party. Mr. Hammer was one of a new generation of members who led a rebellion against the older generation and shifted the party to a more nationalist and right-wing position.
        Mr. Hammer was first elected to Parliament in 1969. In 1975, in the first Labor Government of Yitzhak Rabin, he was appointed Minister of Social Welfare. In 1977 Mr. Hammer made the important decision to ally the National Religious Party with the Likud, and joined the Likud Government as a Minister of Education and later Minister of Religious Affairs.
        In the 1996 election that brought Mr. Netanyahu to power, the National Religious Party won seven seats, and Mr. Hammer was appointed Education Minister and Deputy Prime Minister.
        Mr. Hammer is survived by his wife, Menachemia, and four children.
        He was buried today in the Mount of Olives Cemetery in East Jerusalem after a funeral procession from Parliament.
      