
        Jerre Mangione, a writer whose thinly veiled memoir of life in a Sicilian enclave in Rochester became a classic of American ethnic literature and gave a new name to his boyhood haunts, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 89.
        His first book, ''Mount Allegro,'' was written as a nonfiction account of his life as the son of Sicilian immigrants who spent their lives struggling to offset the view that all Sicilians were criminals.
        But a month before publication, Mr. Mangione said in an interview in The New York Times in 1981, Houghton Mifflin ''insisted on publishing it as fiction because their sales department decided it would sell better with that label.'' The writer protested, to no avail, and acquiesced only to changing the names of the people in the memoir and to inserting a tongue-in-cheek disclaimer: ''The characters in this book are fictitious and have fictitious names. Anyone who thinks he recognizes himself in it is kindly asked to bear that in mind.''
        The book, first published in 1943, was reissued four times by different publishers, appearing briefly on The Times's fiction best-seller list and simultaneously on the nonfiction list of The New York Herald Tribune. About 20 years after the book's first publication, the city of Rochester officially renamed the neighborhood after the name given by Mr. Mangione to an area ''as flat as Kansas'' simply because he liked the sound of it.
        Mr. Mangione graduated from Syracuse University, worked briefly at Time magazine and then became an editor with the Federal Writers' Project, which produced a series of guidebooks to the 48 states and employed writers like Saul Bellow, Ralph Ellison, Richard Wright and Studs Terkel. Mr. Mangione's history of the program, ''The Dream and the Deal: The Federal Writers' Project, 1935-43,'' was published in 1972.
        Mr. Mangione became a professor in the English department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1961 and was named emeritus professor of American literature upon his retirement in 1978. Among the works he produced during his tenure were ''Passion for Sicilians: The World Around Danilo Dolci'' (1968) and ''An Ethnic at Large: Memoirs of America in the 30's and 40's'' (1978). Upon the completion of his last book, ''La Storia: Five Centuries of the Italian-American Experience,'' which he wrote with Ben Morreale, Mr. Mangione was honored by the Library of Congress with an exhibition of his works and papers.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, of Haverford; a stepson, David Evans of Philadelphia; a brother, Frank Mangione of Rochester, and two sisters, Rita Morticelli of Rochester and Susan D'Amico of Juno Beach, Fla.
      