
        Robert H. Cooley 3d, a lawyer who had been leading a campaign to have his family recognized as descendants of Thomas Jefferson and his slave Sally Hemings, died on July 20 at a hospital near his home in Midlothian, Va., a Richmond suburb. He was 58.
        Pending results of an autopsy, his family speculated that the cause was a blood clot that formed as a result of a freak accident in New York City three months ago, when his foot was caught under a steel construction plate that was flipped up, then slammed down by a passing city bus.
        Whether or not he was a great-great-great-great-great-grandson of Thomas Jefferson -- and to Mr. Cooley and other established descendants of Sally Hemings's son Thomas Woodson, there has never been any doubt -- Mr. Cooley did well for himself.
        The son of a prominent civil rights lawyer, he was born in Richmond and grew up in Petersburg, Va., before receiving a law degree from Howard University and joining the Army in 1962.
        In a military career in which he rose from private to major, Mr. Cooley served at bases in Arizona, France and Germany before being sent to the Army's Judge Advocate General training academy at the University of Virginia in 1968, receiving a degree in military law and later serving as a trial judge in Vietnam before leaving the Army in 1971.
        After serving with a Washington firm, he joined his father's practice in Petersburg, later established the city's first integrated law firm and then joined a Richmond firm before becoming a sole practitioner in Petersburg.
        But for all of his legal accomplishments, which included brief substitute service as the first black judge for the Petersburg District Court and as the first black Federal magistrate for the Eastern District of Virginia, what animated Mr. Cooley most in recent years was the quest for a measure of overdue racial justice.
        For Mr. Cooley the quest began when he was 10, and a grandfather told him that he was a seventh-generation descendant of Jefferson, then warned him to keep quiet about it.
        The rumor that Jefferson had had a long-term liaison with Hemings and had fathered several of her children, including a son, who later settled in Ohio and took the name Thomas Woodson, surfaced in 1802, during Jefferson's Presidency, when it was published by a disgruntled officeseeker.
        The matter has been thoroughly aired in recent years, but although some initially skeptical historians have come to give the old rumor some credence, the lack of firm evidence has largely left the question unresolved -- except to Mr. Cooley and other Woodson descendants for whom it is not rumor but established family fact, passed down from generation to generation by diverse branches of the Woodson family.
        As president and general counsel of the Thomas Woodson Family Association, which represents some 200 of an estimated 1,800 Woodson descendants, Mr. Cooley had been a tireless spokesman for the family's assertions, appearing on national television as recently as June.
        Aside from gaining general public recognition of the Woodson family's descent from Jefferson, the only real issue has been the family's quest for the right to be buried in the cemetery at Monticello, Jefferson's home in Charlottesville. The cemetery is owned by a Jefferson family association, representing some 800 acknowledged Jefferson descendants, which has cited the lack of evidence in denying burial rights to the Woodson family.
        Mr. Cooley and other Woodson descendants had been cheered by a recent research project in which an effort is being made to use DNA to help resolve the dispute. Because the DNA analysis being used is valid only through unbroken male descent, and because all of Jefferson's acknowledged descendants are descended from his two acknowledged daughters (his only acknowledged son died in infancy), it can at most establish that the Woodsons are related somehow to Jefferson, perhaps through one of two nephews, not necessarily descended from Jefferson.
        Even so, any established scientific link between the Woodsons and Jefferson could create extra pressure on the Jefferson family association to open the cemetery to Woodson descendants.
        The analysis of DNA samples taken from descendants of Woodson, Jefferson's uncle, his nephews and a control group of prominent Virginia families is being conducted at a laboratory in Oxford, England, and the results are not expected to be published for months.
        Mr. Cooley was buried on July 25 at Forest Lawn Cemetery in Richmond.
        He is survived by his parents, Ruth and Robert Cooley Jr.; his wife, Ruby; a son, Robert 4th of Charlotte, N.C.; two daughters, Dr. Michelle Cooley-Quille of Baltimore, and Lisa Cooley, a news anchor for WCBS-TV in New York, and a brother, Col. Howard G. Cooley of Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri.
      