
        Rex Lardner, a humorist who spent the better part of his life doing what he did best and enjoyed most, writing, playing tennis and making people laugh, died on Monday at the top of his game, playing mixed doubles with his usual tenacious skill at a court near his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 80 and the author of more than a dozen books and hundreds of magazine articles.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        As a member of a storied literary family, Mr. Lardner, a nephew of the celebrated humorist Ring Lardner and a cousin of the acclaimed New Yorker critic and Newsweek columnist John Lardner, could have been forgiven if he had chosen a different line of work.
        But as a man who was funny by nature and competitive on principle, he did not shrink from the challenge. And if he never achieved spectacular success, he more than held his own. As the chief radio and television writer for the innovative comedian Ernie Kovacs, for example, he won a Sylvania Award in 1956 for creative television technique. One of his first books, ''Out of the Bunker and Into the Trees,'' a 1960 parody of golf and golfers, was considered so funny that various chapters have been widely reprinted in sports magazines. Although he wrote other golf books, including ''The Great Golfers,'' and ''Downhill Lies and Other Falsehoods,'' golf was never his game, perhaps because he claimed to have discovered the reason people played golf: ''to destroy themselves.''
        Mr. Lardner, who also wrote ''Ten Heroes of the 20's,'' ''The Legendary Champions,'' ''Ali'' and ''The Lardner Report,'' a humorous account of life in the suburbs, was more in his element writing about tennis and other racquet sports. He wrote instructional books on squash and badminton and several books on tennis, among them, ''The Complete Guide to Tennis,'' ''How to Attack Your Opponent's Weakness'' and ''Tactics in Women's Singles, Doubles and Mixed Doubles,'' all of which mixed humor with instruction.
        The son of an itinerant newspaperman, Mr. Lardner, who was born in St. Paul, and grew up in Great Neck after his father, also named Rex, got a job as an editor at The New York Times, developed the two great themes of his life, writing and sports, at the University of Michigan. He majored in journalism and won two Big 10 wrestling championships.
        After a brief stint as a free lance in New York, he served in the Army in World War II, then returned to New York, where he became a reporter for The New Yorker and began turning out articles for such magazines as Esquire, Look, Holiday, World Tennis and The New York Times Magazine. It was through tennis that he and Mr. Kovacs met and discovered such a mutual offbeat humor that Mr. Lardner became the comic's chief writer for a succession of radio and television shows in New York and Hollyood.
        After Mr. Kovacs's death in 1962, Mr. Lardner worked for several years as a staff writer for Sports Illustrated, but the strictures of a regular job with erratic travel schedules did not appeal, and he retired from the rat race to work out of the attic of his home as a decidedly prolific freelance magazine writer and author.
        A man for whom writing came easy, Mr. Lardner worked out an agreeable regimen for himself. Getting up early to work out with weights in his basement (he believed in preparation), he would then play tennis, come home to type for a while before lunch and, perhaps after a nap, play some more tennis followed by more typing, dinner and still more typing.
        For all his sense of humor, Mr. Lardner was a stickler for semantic accuracy and a master at solving crossword puzzles, which was hardly surprising for a man who once used a review in The New York Times to sum up a book by the humorist S. J. Perlman as ''a gallimaufry of harrowing experiences.''
        He is survived by his wife, Martha; two sons, Rex Jr., of Chicago, and Michael, of Garden City, N.Y.; a daughter, Lonnie, of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      