
        Larry Gilbert, a prominent golfer on the Senior PGA Tour, died of lung cancer yesterday at Samaritan Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 55.
        A longtime club professional in Kentucky and Tennessee, Gilbert joined the Senior Tour in 1992 and immediately became a top money-winner. He won more than $3.2 million in his career, including a career-best $902,816 last year. But on Sept. 2, he was found to have inoperable lung cancer. He left the tour and began chemotherapy in Nashville, but his health steadily declined.
        Gilbert's most notable victory occurred last July, when he captured the Ford Senior Players Championship at the TPC of Michigan course in Dearborn. It was his only victory in a major tournament, and it was his first triumph since 1994, when he joined the Senior Tour. Starting the final round in a four-way tie for first place, he shot a five-under-par 67 to win by three strokes over Isao Aoki.
        ''I was thinking of so many things,'' Gilbert said after that victory. ''All of those times on the practice tee, when you're dreaming of being on the 18th green playing for a championship. And I thought of my mother and father and how proud they'd be of me.''
        A three-time winner on the Senior Tour, which is for golfers 50 or older, Gilbert also won the Dallas Reunion Pro-Am and the Vantage Championship, both in 1994.
        Gilbert, who was born in Fort Knox, Ky., was the college-division champion of the National Collegiate Athletic Association in 1965, when he attended Middle Tennessee State University.
        He won the PGA of America Club Professional Championship in 1981, 1982 and 1991, and he also won 10 Kentucky PGA championships. But his best finish on the regular PGA Tour was 25th, in the 1982 World Series of Golf, and his career earnings were only $19,123.
        Known for his consistency on the Senior Tour, Gilbert had a streak of 21 consecutive rounds of par or better in 1996. In his five years on the tour, he was a top-20 money-winner three times, and he was never out of the top 30.
        Before his illness was discovered, Gilbert was playing some of the best golf of his life.
        ''It's a tragedy to lose a man as fine as Larry Gilbert just as he reached the pinnacle of his career,'' said Tim Finchem, commissioner of the PGA Tour.
        Gilbert is survived by his wife, Brenda, and two sons, Allen and Chris.
      