
        Max Kaplan, a scholarly sociologist and musician who made the study of leisure a large part of an industrious life's work, died on Tuesday at a hospice in La Grange, Ga. He was 87 and lived at the Merry Oaks, his home in Georgia's rural Meriwether County.
        Dr. Kaplan's family said he had been suffering from multiple myeloma, a bone marrow condition, for several years.
        His manifold interests ranged from gerontology to the sociology of the arts. He taught, lectured and served as a consultant for over four decades, writing or editing 27 books and some 350 articles along the way.
        Dr. Kaplan's last book, ''One Life: The Free Academic,'' was published in February by Associated University Presses. It combined autobiography with a summation of his work and thoughts.
        Other titles in print, published by Fairleigh Dickinson, suggest their scope: ''The Arts: A Social Perspective'' (1990), ''Essays on Leisure: Human and Policy Issues'' (1991), and ''Barbershopping: Musical and Social Harmony'' (1993), for which he took the editing credit.
        His ''Leisure in America: A Social Inquiry'' (Wiley, 1964) methodically studied an astonishing post-war ''recreation explosion'' among prospering Americans with more time on their hands and the money to enjoy it as participants and as spectators.
        A violinist, Dr. Kaplan often wrote about music education. He told the Music Educators National Conference in 1967 that sociologists could help music teachers by examining the process by which new audiences, especially among the poor, might be introduced to the arts and by studying the schools' music programs in relation to community needs.
        Dr. Kaplan played chamber music and soloed with orchestras, served as concert master and was a co-founder of the Greater Boston Youth Symphony Orchestra, which played at the White House in 1963 at the request of President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy. As a resident of Tampa, Fla., he was a member of the Gulf Coast Philharmonic and sat on the board of the La Grange Symphony.
        Max Kaplan was born in Milwaukee and graduated from Milwaukee State Teachers College (now the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee) in 1933. He received a master's in music from the University of Colorado in 1941, and master's and doctoral degrees in sociology from the University of Illinois in 1948 and 1951. He then taught at the university until 1957.
        His many other academic associations included Boston University School of Fine and Applied Arts and the University of South Florida. There he founded and directed its Institute for Studies of Leisure.
        As a member of the Academy of Leisure and the World Leisure and Recreation Association, Dr. Kaplan lectured and consulted across the country, Europe and the Middle East.
        Dr. Kaplan is survived by his wife, Dr. Barbara Connally Kaplan; two daughters from a previous marriage, Marcia R. Rudin of Manhattan, and Theresa J. Abrahams of Tampa; a brother, Frank, of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Charlotte Stock of Reno; a stepson, Philip Rogers of Atlanta; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. An earlier marriage, to Elizabeth Neu Abrams of Tampa, ended in divorce.
      