
        Henry Butler, a versatile director and stager who was best known for his work in opera, died on Aug. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in a nursing home in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said Marvin David Levy, a colleague.
        Mr. Butler wrote the libretto for the opera ''Mourning Becomes Electra,'' which Mr. Levy composed. It had its premiere in 1967 at the Metropolitan Opera House. Mr. Levy has been revising the opera for a new production by the Lyric Opera of Chicago that is to open on Oct. 6.
        After the opera's original opening, the critic Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times that the work,  a ''three-act setting of O'Neill's setting of Sophocles,'' was ''incontestably the most successful new American opera produced last season at the Metropolitan Opera.''
        Mr. Butler directed a 1973 revival of the operetta ''Desert Song'' at the Uris Theater. He also staged a 1972 production of Bellini's ''Sonnambula'' with Renata Scotto and Nicolai Gedda at the Metropolitan.
        In 1969, he staged the 1904 operetta ''Cendrillon'' at the Newport Music Festival in Rhode Island. He also bridged sections with a brief English narrative while the singers used the original French of the operetta, whose words and music were by the singer Pauline Viardot-Garcia.
        Mr. Butler's debut at the Metropolitan was his 1961 staging of Puccini's  ''La Fanciulla del West.'' Another Times critic, Harold C. Schonberg, applauded him for staging the performance ''with skill, handling the crowd scenes deftly, making the best of the awkward situations in the libretto.''
        Mr. Butler's other work, which included acting, ranged from Off Broadway productions to directing the Miss America pageant of 1956.  He was widely known early in his career as Bill Butler, and his Broadway and television credits in the 1950's were under that name. He began using the professional name  Henry Butler when he started staging operas at the Metropolitan.
        He received grants from the Guggenheim and Rockefeller foundations.
        Mr. Butler was born in Eureka, Kan., and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1942 from the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He is survived by a nephew, Dr. Luther Creed, of Las Vegas.
      