
        State Senator Jess Joseph Present, a Republican leader from upstate New York who spent more than three decades in the State Legislature, died on Saturday at his home in Bemus Point, N.Y., near his native Jamestown. He was 77.
        A heart attack was the apparent cause, the Senate press office reported.
        Since his election to the Senate from Chautauqua County in southwest New York, he had filled a string of important committee assignments. But his influence fell victim to party infighting in recent years.
        He was closely allied with Ralph J. Marino, the majority leader from Oyster Bay, N.Y., who was a rival to his fellow Senator, George E. Pataki, from Peekskill, N.Y. Mr. Marino chose Mr. Present as his deputy majority leader in 1993.
        With Mr. Pataki moving into the Governor's office after the 1994 election, Senator Joseph L. Bruno of Rensselaer County engineered Mr. Marino's ouster and succeeded him as majority leader. In January, Mr. Bruno named a new deputy, and Mr. Present retired from that post.
        At his death, Mr. Present was chairman of the Senate Commerce, Economic Development and Small Business Committee and a member of the National Legislatures' Committee on Commerce, Labor and Economic Development. His 56th Senate District covers Chautauqua, Allegany, Livingston and Cattaraugus Counties.
        Senator Present survived a scare in the 1992 election when it appeared at first blush that he had lost his seat to a Democrat, but the completed count of absentee ballots returned him to Albany once again with just 190 votes to spare. The last time around, in 1996, he sailed past his Democratic challenger with a winning vote of 69 percent to 31.
        Mr. Present attended Allegheny College but enlisted in World War II to serve with the Eighth Air Force in England. After the war, he worked in a family jewelry business in Jamestown.
        He started his political career in 1960 as a Jamestown City Councilman, serving until 1963. He represented the Jamestown area in the State Assembly from 1965 until he was elected in 1968 to the State Senate, where he concentrated on commerce and education. He was a past chairman of the Chautauqua County Republican Committee.
        He is survived by his wife, Elaine Coates Present; two sons, Jeffrey B. and Randall L., both of Bemus Point; two brothers, William E., of Lakewood, N.Y., and Leonard R., of West Bloomfield, Mich; a sister, Anna Rae, also of Bemus Point, and three grandchildren.
      