
        Angelo Zuccotti, who wielded the velvet rope at El Morocco with such authority and finesse that he helped define the very line between cafe society and social Siberia at New York's most storied supper club, died on Sunday at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 89 and had operated a bed and breakfast there for the last eight years.
        If you were out on the town in the 1950's and 1960's and remember Mr. Zuccotti as a warm and gracious man, almost a cherished friend even though you never exchanged more than a few polite words at a time, it is a safe bet that you were invariably seated at one of the better tables, next to the tiny dance floor, perhaps.
        Or maybe even to the right of the entrance at one of the famous zebra-striped banquettes, the signature backdrop of hundreds of magazine and newspaper photographs of visiting Hollywood stars, European royalty and hometown socialites beginning in the 1930's.
        On the other hand, if you recall him as an icy and forbidding presence whose piercing blue eyes seemed to look right through you without a glimmer of recognition before he seated you, if he seated you at all, at a table at the left rear, the section known (shudder!) as Siberia, then, as you look back on it, perhaps you were a bit pushy in those days or otherwise failed to live up to Mr. Zuccotti's exacting standards of wealth, beauty and social grace.
        Certainly you were not a Bing Crosby, a Cary Grant, a Maurice Chevalier or one of the dozens of other El Morocco regulars Mr. Zuccotti recalled fondly as special favorites.
        Whatever their experience, those who saw Mr. Zuccotti as he presided grandly at the El Morocco reservations desk would undoubtedly have been surprised that the tall, slender, distinguished-looking man in white tie and tails who dealt easily and efficiently with the well-dressed throngs emerging from the limousines lining East 54th Street had ridden the subway to work from his home in Greenwich Village and dressed for the evening alongside waiters and bus boys in the basement locker room.
        He may have been a working stiff, and Mr. Zuccotti -- who was on duty six nights a week and was so devoted to work that his idea of retirement was to operate a rooming house, could hardly deny it -- but he also saw his work as an art, one he had been perfecting for years.
        A native of Bosco Marengo in the Piedmont section of Italy, Mr. Zuccotti, who came to the United States at age 15 in 1923 and immediately found work in New York's bustling, and often illicit, restaurant industry, was on the El Morocco staff when John Perona, also a Piedmont native, opened it as a speakeasy in 1931.
        By the time he succeeded Frank Carino as maitre d'hotel a couple of decades later, Mr. Zuccotti had mastered the formula that had made El Morocco so successful: the creation of social electricity by the adroit and often inspired mixing of disparate people throughout the room.
        Mr. Perona likened it to a chef making a sauce. Mr. Zuccotti, who made it a point not to assign tables until customers with reservations actually arrived, had another metaphor.
        As he told Frank Borsky for a 1969 article in New York magazine, when he opened El Morocco's walnut doors at 7 P.M. he regarded the room as an empty canvas: ''I am the artist and the people are my oils,'' he said, describing how he would put beautiful women at the front tables next to the dance floor, where they could be seen, while seating celebrities at the banquettes where they would have the pleasure of being recognized.
        A master at juggling customers with sometimes outsized and competing egos, Mr. Zuccotti, who was careful to seat divorced couples far apart, could also be relied on for his discretion. Men arriving at El Morocco with girlfriends would be grateful for a whispered warning that their wives were present.
        After Mr. Perona died in 1961 and the restaurant was moved from 154 East 54th Street to 307 East 54th Street, Mr. Zuccotti stayed on, providing a measure of social continuity even as cafe society declined and customers would sometimes arrive wearing sports jackets.
        After El Morocco closed in 1969, Mr. Zuccotti worked for a while at a resort in the Bahamas, then returned when El Morocco reopened a few years later, the first of a succession of reincarnations.
        Mr. Zuccotti, whose first wife died in 1990, is survived by his wife, Laura; two sons, John, a former First Deputy Mayor of New York, and Andrew, a lawyer in Seattle; and five grandchildren.
      