
        Isaac N. P. Stokes, a lawyer who worked on New Deal legislation regulating securities brokerage firms and also helped in the creation of the United Nations and the rebuilding of Europe after World War II, died on Aug. 4 at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H., a son, Thomas, said. He was 91.
        In 1934, Mr. Stokes was among many bright young men drawn to Washington by James Landis, one of his Harvard Law School professors, to draft what became the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the basic statute governing Wall Street. The young lawyers and students often slept on cots as they drew up the regulatory blueprint, and some of them, including Mr. Stokes, became lawyers for the new Securities and Exchange Commission.
        In 1936 he returned to New York to practice law at the firm now known as Debevoise & Plimpton. But his work for the Federal Government would continue. He returned to Washington in the war years, drafting rules for the War Production Board and focusing on the promotion of plain English instead of the stilted language common to regulations.
        In 1946, Alger Hiss hired Mr. Stokes for the staff of the United States delegation to the United Nations, where he worked to secure the choice of Manhattan as the headquarters site and to devise the terms of diplomatic immunity for representatives of other countries.
        Theodore Kheel, the New York labor lawyer and a neighbor of Mr. Stokes when he lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, said that specifying that Mr. Hiss had once been a patron was illustrative of Mr. Stokes's character. Mr. Hiss was sentenced to prison for perjury in a 1950 espionage case in which, he insisted he had been framed. ''He had courage and he did not want to hide anything, did not get embarrassed by a fact that others might have tried to hide, like his being hired by Alger Hiss,'' who, Mr. Kheel said, ''was a respected man then.''
        Mr. Stokes next worked in the State Department under George F. Kennan on the policy planning staff. President Truman appointed him chief counsel of the Commerce Department in 1948.
        The following year, he went to Paris as general counsel of the Mutual Security Agency -- the Marshall Plan. He later became deputy director of the organization, which helped revive European economies from the destructiveness of World War II.
        He returned to New York in 1953 and became a founding partner of the Fleischmann Stokes & Hitchcock law firm, which had a clientele of multinational corporations. The firm was later folded into another firm and then dissolved. He retired in 1972 and moved to Jericho, Vt., where he continued to practice law part time and served on two Vermont commissions concerned with land use and water pollution.
        Mr. Stokes came from a family long active in social causes and public service. His great-aunt, Caroline Phelps Stokes, was the founder of the Phelps-Stokes Fund in 1911 to help educate blacks and American Indians and to help residents of New York tenements.
        Mr. Stokes became a trustee of the fund in 1937 and served as chairman from 1963 until he retired in 1977.
        Isaac Newton Phelps Stokes graduated from Yale in 1929 and from Harvard Law School in 1933.
        His first wife, Barbara Hoyt Stokes, died in 1965.
        He is survived by his second wife, Katrina Roelker Huntington Stokes; three sons, Samuel N., of Silver Spring, Md., Thomas H., of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mitchell P., of Newton, Mass.; two daughters, Janet R. C., of Boston, and Olivia P. Stokes Drier of Belchertown, Mass.; three stepdaughters, Lydia H. Sparrow of Brunswick, Me., Madge H. Cooper of New York and Mary H. Silloway of Mendon, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      