
        Ned Gillette of Sun Valley, Idaho, a 53-year-old adventurer, mountain climber, sailor, skier, photographer, journalist and author, was shot to death the night of Aug. 5 while sleeping in a tent in Kashmir, the disputed northern region between India and Pakistan.
        His wife, Suzy Patterson, who was also shot, was said to be recovering in a Pakistani hospital.
        Pakistani officials said two suspects had been taken into custody and charged with murder and assault. The authorities said the apparent motive was robbery. According to Bloomberg News, the local police, helped by villagers in the mountainous region, uncovered a shotgun they believed was used in the attack.
        Ms. Patterson, 42, was the United States women's champion in slalom skiing in 1974 and the American downhill champion in 1976. She was 14th in the 1976 Olympic downhill.
        According to Mr. Gillette's mother, Janet Gillette of Falmouth, Mass., her son and daughter-in-law left in early July to climb mountains and journey through Pakistan. They had expected to return later this month.
        In addition to his wife and mother, Mr. Gillette is survived by a sister, Debbie Law of Tiburon, Calif.
        Mr. Gillette, a native of Barre, Vt., was captain of the Dartmouth College ski team and a noncompeting substitute on the 1968 United States Olympic team in cross-country skiing. He later headed the ski touring program at the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, Vt., and wrote instructional books on skiing. His greatest love was doing things no one else had done and perhaps not even imagined. In 1978, he led an expedition that climbed the base of Mount McKinley in Alaska not vertically, but horizontally. In 1981 and 1982, he made a similar trip around Mount Everest.
        In 1988, he and three others became the first to row from the tip of South America to Antarctica through the 600-mile Drake Passage, considered by mariners to be the most treacherous body of water in the world. Their specially built 28-foot aluminum boat, Sea Tomato, overturned several times during the 14-day trip.
        ''My mother wishes I never thought of it,'' Mr. Gillette said later.
        In 1993, he and his wife rode camels 6,000 miles on the old Silk Road from China to the Mediterranean Sea. Before that trip, he said: ''I think poignant experiences like this either enhance or destroy a marriage, and I see no reason why this is going to do anything but enhance.  People often say, 'How can you top this?' And there's always a new idea that comes along. Life doesn't stop with one experience. It's just part of the ongoing adventure of life.''
        Bob Rice, a meteorologist in Bedford, Mass., provided weather forecasts for Mr. Gillette.
        ''Most of these people,'' Mr. Rice said of such adventurers, ''get more out of life than anybody. They don't really think they can be hurt, and it's kind of a surprise to them when they are. Most people use only about 10 percent of themselves. These people call on much, much more.''
        Mr. Gillette said the biggest challenge was finding a new challenge.
        ''We live in a time where you can no longer climb the highest peak, or no longer explore blank spots on a map,'' he said. ''Adventure is looking at old subjects in a new way. There's still plenty left to do if you use your imagination. You have to create a double adventure rather than answer to one already waiting for you.''
      