
        Richard Mansfield Bilby, a senior Federal judge in Arizona who presided over the 1992 case against Charles H. Keating Jr., a symbol of the savings-and-loan collapse of the 1980's, died on Tuesday as he was walking his dog near his summer home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 67 and a lifetime resident of Tucson, Ariz.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Federal District Court reported in Tucson. Judge Bilby was nominated by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, was elevated to chief judge in 1984 and served as such until 1990. He took senior status with a reduced workload two years ago.
        The Arizona jury trial of Mr. Keating, a Phoenix financier and savings-and-loan executive, and his co-defendants stemmed from a class action suit filed by investors. The result was a billion-dollar judgment for the plaintiffs in November 1992.
        Mr. Keating was later tried in California on state charges and was convicted. Both that conviction and the one in Arizona were overturned on appeal. Mr. Keating, who was released on bail in October, could be retried in both the state and the Federal cases.
        In recent years, Judge Bilby ordered an end to overcrowding in Arizona's juvenile correction centers.
        In 1997 he overturned the state's ban on the medical procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion, terming it unconstitutionally vague. The law as written by the Arizona Legislature, he held, improperly restricted a woman's right to abort a nonviable fetus.
        Richard Bilby graduated from the University of Arizona in 1955 and from the University of Michigan Law School in 1958.
        Practicing in Tucson, he once served as Pima County Republican chairman even though he often expressed views resembling those of a populist Democrat. Mr. Carter first nominated him in 1976 on the recommendation of Senator Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat, but liberal Democrats in the Senate blocked the appointment that year while Republicans supported it.
        Judge Bilby is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Thomas Bilby; two daughters from a previous marriage that ended in divorce, Claire Bilby of Long Beach, Calif., and Ellen Moore of Agoura, Calif., and two grandsons.
      