
        Gary Lisz, a costume designer for ballet, theater and film, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 44 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Ken Daigle, his companion.
        Mr. Lisz was known for costumes whose easy simplicity quietly enhanced the style and furthered the intent of a wide range of productions. He designed costumes for six pieces choreographed by Robert La Fosse, most of them for the New York City Ballet. He created costumes for ballets by Peter Martins, Kevin O'Day and George Balanchine, also at City Ballet, and for Clark Tippet and John Selya at American Ballet Theater.
        Mr. Lisz's theater work included costumes for the Broadway productions ''Piaf'' and ''Sophisticated Ladies'' and, Off Broadway, ''A Couple of White Chicks Sittin' Around Talkin' '' at the Astor Place Theater, for which he won the New York Drama Critics Award for best costume design in 1981; Richard Nelson's ''Between East and West'' at the McCarter Playhouse in Princeton, N.J.; Marsha Norman's ''Sarah and Abraham'' at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, N.J., and  John Kelly's ''Find My Way Home.''
        Mr. Lisz designed the costumes for Ethan Silverman's ''Central Park,'' screened at the Sundance Film Festival last year and on PBS this year. His other film costuming included  ''I'm Dancing as Fast as I Can,'' one of several productions with the director Jack Hofsiss, and the Mabou Mines Acting Company's ''Dead End Kids.'' He designed the national tour and ABC television production of ''The Elephant Man.''
        Born in Washington, he trained at the Corcoran School of Art, and at the Parsons School of Design in New York City. He began his career in the fashion industry. He designed his own line for Sportwhirl/Multifacets from 1975-79. At his death, he was a professor of design at Parsons and the Fashion Institute of Technology.
        In addition to Mr. Daigle, Mr. Lisz is survived by his parents, Dorothy and Leonard Lisz of Romney, W. Va.
      