
        Dr. William L. Chick, a physician and researcher who suffered from diabetes from the age of 11 and lost his own battle with it after a career dedicated to developing technology to help other diabetics, died on Monday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 60 and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        Dr. Chick was a leader in the field of cell therapy, which involves transplanting animal cells to treat diseases, including diabetes. At the Joslin Clinic in Boston in the 1970's, he developed early ideas for a plastic pancreas implant the size of a hockey puck. Then in the 1980's, at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, he created the technology to implant tiny, insulin-producing animal cells, called islets, said Dr. Denise Faustman, who studied with Dr. Chick and is now a professor at Harvard Medical School.
        ''He found ways to get islet cells to survive long term, using what he called barrier isolation,'' Dr. Faustman said. ''It was sort of like plastic Baggies that kept out the cells that would attack the islet.''
        Until a few months before Dr. Chick's death -- even after he went blind, received a kidney transplant, suffered a heart attack and stayed alive through nightly dialysis, often with high fevers and shingles -- he worked in his laboratory to develop technology, finally testing the implants of tiny cells as factories to produce insulin, said his wife, Bonnie.
        The key was a plastic membrane that allowed live animal islet cells to send out insulin into a diabetic's blood while keeping out the much larger cells that trigger rejection of the animal cells. The products are still in pre-clinical trials, said an associate, Jack Hayes, chief operating officer of Biohybrid Technologies in Shrewsbury, Mass., a company the two men started in 1986.
        In diabetes, the pancreas fails to produce enough insulin, which allows sugar in the blood to enter cells. Uncontrolled diabetes can cause atherosclerosis, a blood vessel disease that destroys the kidneys.
        By releasing automatic doses of insulin into the blood, the implanted islet cells have kept laboratory animals with diabetes healthy for months. Dr. Chick thought islet cells gathered from the pancreas of a pig could be used in such a device because they would produce insulin similar to that of humans. That approach is already used in standard insulin therapy for diabetics. The use of such transplants of cells or organs is an example of a technique called xenotransplantation, and Dr. Chick was an early leader in the field.
        In 1981, Dr. Chick became a professor of biochemistry and medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester, where he was recruited to organize a federally financed Diabetes-Endocrinology Research Center. The center opened the next year.
        He was its director until 1991, when he left to work full time with Biohybrid Technologies, where he was president and scientific director.
        Dr. Chick was one of the early contributors to cellular medicine, or cell therapy, which involves the treatment of disease with living cells, rather than a manufactured drug. He also worked on ways to apply cell therapy to hemophilia, Parkinson's disease and epilepsy, Mr. Hayes said.
        William Chick was born in Manhattan and received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University and an M.D. from New York University in 1963.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Alyssa Jennifer, a student at Georgetown University, and Elizabeth Katherine, a student at Emory University.
      