
        Robert B. Baird 2d, chief executive of the Polyesther Corporation and a patron of Long Island civic and charitable organizations, died on July 22 while on vacation in Spain. He was 75 and lived in Quogue, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Less than three weeks later, on Aug. 9, his wife of five years, Barbara Arnold Baird, 67, died at home, also of a heart attack, the family said.
        For more than three decades, Mr. Baird was prominent in civic affairs, serving as a member of the planning board, a village trustee, Fire Commissioner and acting Police Commissioner. He was also on the boards of Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, Southampton Hospital and the Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead, and was active with the Southampton Wildfowl Association. He was instrumental in establishing the Quogue Wildlife Refuge Nature Center and was a founder of the South Street Seaport Museum in Manhattan.
        The Bairds' home, Winnecomac, was the site of a benefit, the Stardust Ball, for the Family Counseling Service of Westhampton Beach on Aug. 8. The annual event was held as scheduled at the family's request, even though it closely followed Mr. Baird's death.
        Mr. Baird founded the Polyesther Corporation, with headquarters in Southampton, which imports and exports specialty chemicals for the cosmetics industry, and imports crude rubber.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Baird attended Lehigh University, in Allentown, Pa., and served in the Army Air Corps in Europe during World War II.
        His first wife, Esther Steere, died in 1992. The following year he married Barbara Arnold, the widow of Dr. William D. Arnold of Manhattan.
        There are 12 Baird and 3 Arnold children surviving, and 20 grandchildren.
        The Baird children are Margaret M. Baird of Sag Harbor, N.Y.; Barbara Zeman, who lives in Germany; Camille R. Baird of Asheville, N.C.; Esther S. Baird of North Manchester, Ind.; Mary E. Baird of Dallas; Belinda Fremont of Sonoita, Ariz.; Cynthia Baird Goode of East Hampton, N.Y.; Catherine B. Bennett of Hampton Bays, N.Y.; William T., of Laurel, N.Y.; David T., of Westhampton, Robert L., of Sarasota, Fla., and Andrew H., of East Quogue.
        The Arnold children are Dr. Susan Arnold of St. Louis; Margaret Arnold of Manhattan, and James, of Shoreview, Minn.
        Mr. Baird is also survived by a brother, Thomas R., of Manhattan and Monts-Beauner, France.
        Mrs. Baird is also survived by two  sisters, Jane Gay Neubauer of Providence, R.I., and Brenda Neubauer Straus of Manhattan, and a brother, H. Bradlee Neubauer of Manhattan.
      