
        Harold J. Ruttenberg, a research director for the United Steelworkers of America who changed sides, became a business executive and remained outspoken on labor-management issues, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Edward F. Ruttenberg.
        Mr. Ruttenberg's switch to management, in 1946, was at a fairly lofty level. As The New York Herald Tribune put it in 1958, he ''was the brilliant research director and economic wizard for the United Steel Workers and the righthand man of Philip Murray,'' the president of the steelworkers' union from 1942, when it was founded, until 1952. Mr. Murray was also president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations from 1940 to 1952.
        In his years with the union, Mr. Ruttenberg broadened a thorough working knowledge of steel company employment and wage statistics. When he quit the union in 1946, Mr. Murray said that he had been an invaluable associate.
        Mr. Ruttenberg was hired by Cyrus Eaton, the financier, to be an executive of the Portsmouth Steel Company. After three years in management there, Mr. Ruttenberg (pronounced ROOT-en-berg) went on to be, successively, president, chairman -- or both -- of four other American companies. He was also chairman of the Rehovoth Instruments Company in Israel from 1968 to 1978.
        At his death he was chairman and chief executive of the American Locker Group Inc. of Jamestown, N.Y., which makes and markets coin-operated metal lockers and plastic security mail boxes. He had held the posts since 1973, when the concern was called the AVM Corporation.
        In his years in the labor world and in management, Mr. Ruttenberg was a perennial advocate of improving ties between the two sides. He believed that giving unions a greater role in management operations would enhance productivity and he favored a guaranteed yearly wage for union workers.
        Mr. Ruttenberg was born in St. Paul and grew up in Greene County, in southwestern Pennsylvania, where his father owned a general store.
        He received a bachelor's degree in 1935 from the University of Pittsburgh and went on to hold posts in the labor movement before the United Steelworkers union was formed. They included the job of regional research director, for the Pittsburgh area, of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee, which was then considered the spearhead of labor in the steel industry.
        Mr. Ruttenberg was research director of the United Steelworkers of America from its formation and was on leave from the union from 1942 to 1944, during World War II, while he was assistant director of the steel division of the War Production Board. In that post he had an important role in the board's Steel for Victory drive in Pittsburgh, which began in the summer of 1943 with the goal of increasing supplies of steel to aid the war effort.
        With the union, he could be highly confrontational toward management. Early in 1946, he was chairman of the wage research committee of the C.I.O., while still research director for the steelworkers, when the panel contended that some Bureau of Labor Statistics figures on labor productivity were misleading and demanded that they be withdrawn by the Labor Department. The committee said the figures, showing that output per worker in 24 civilian industries had increased very little between 1939 and 1944, were being used by industry to justify refusals to grant adequate wage increases.
        In 1971 Mr. Ruttenberg reminisced about his switch to management in a letter to The New York Times. He said that the leadership of the steelworkers' union had let him and two others resign from the union rather than have the union agree to pursue a policy that the three ''had advocated of assuming responsibility along with management for increasing productivity as employment benefits increased so that the union could restrain steel price increases.'' He recalled that both the union and the management sides had refused to do that in 1945 and 1946.
        In a 1958 speech, he contended that steelworkers needed ''steady jobs with 52 regular pay checks a year'' more than they needed higher hourly wages. In that speech he also criticized David J. McDonald, the steelworkers' union president, for ''sidetracking the dynamic concept of the annual wage'' and for resisting the development of any meaningful tie between wage increases and heightened industrial efficiency. In that speech, Mr. Ruttenberg also criticized top steel industry executives as failing to display leadership in the same direction.
        He was the co-author, with Clinton S. Golden, of the 1942 book ''The Dynamics of Industrial Democracy.''
        In addition to his son Edward, of Pittsburgh, Mr. Ruttenberg is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Katherine Monori; his son James E. of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Ellen Rabin of Lemoyne, Pa.; a brother, Stanley, of Bethesda, Md., and 10 grandchildren.
      