
        Irwin J. Suall, who for three decades headed undercover investigations of groups regarded as inimical to Jews on behalf of the Anti-Defamation League, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center at 114th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. He was 73 and lived in the Tudor City area of Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from emphysema, said his son, Mark.
        Mr. Suall -- pronounced SOO-ell -- joined the staff of the Anti-Defamation League, a Jewish civil rights organization, in 1967 with the title of national director of fact-finding. He held that title into the 1990's and retired last year from the league's headquarters on United Nations Plaza in Manhattan. He then served for some months as a consultant to the league.
        He was an expert on neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan and other extremist organizations. As Mr. Suall put it, the Anti-Defamation League's inquiries into extremism and extremists entailed ''turning over the rocks'' under which they hid and ''exposing them to the light of public opinion.''
        In a 1993 letter to The New York Times, replying to critics' contention that the Anti-Defamation League had ignored the right-wing fringe, he and a colleague wrote that most of Mr. Suall's ''life work with the Anti-Defamation League has been spent combating the racists, anti-Semites and extremists of the far right,'' and ''our organization's refusal to distort the facts has made it a credible source of information and analysis for the press, the public, academic researchers and law enforcement.''
        In a 1995 interview, Mr. Suall said of the book ''The Turner Diaries,'' an explicitly racist and anti-Semitic work by William Pierce, who published it under the pseudonym Andrew MacDonald: '' 'The Turner Diaries' is probably the most widely read single book among far-right extremists. They get out of it a notion of how to achieve what they've sought all along: how to conduct an American revolution, how to overthrow the present Government and replace it with an Aryan republic.''
        Over the years, the Anti-Defamation League has brought out many publications reporting about organizations that it regarded as opposed to democracy, to Jews or to both. These organizations have also included the Nation of Islam and other black groups, Arab groups opposed to Israel, and numerous leftist groups.
        Mr. Suall talked in a very deliberate way and could be combative. His son recalled yesterday that ''he was this tough and disciplined political guy -- who left the house every day with peanuts in his pockets to feed the squirrels.''
        Mr. Suall was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, grew up in Brownsville, in Brooklyn, and graduated from Samuel Tilden High School in Brooklyn. He attended Brooklyn College for two years and then served in the Merchant Marine for about three years, beginning in 1945.
        In his Merchant Marine years, Mr. Suall had a formative experience during a stay in Shanghai. He saw the squalor that Jewish refugees were living in there. The sight spurred in him pity -- and wrath.
        Mr. Suall went on to study at Oxford University on a Fulbright scholarship and received a bachelor's degree in political science there in in 1950.
        Then, he returned to New York and was successively, among other things, education and organization director of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, national secretary of the Socialist Party-Social Democratic Federation -- headed by Norman Thomas -- and public relations director of the Jewish Labor Committee before joining the staff of the Anti-Defamation League.
        His many writings included a study of partisans of the extreme right, ''The American Ultras'' (1962).
        Mr. Suall married Sarah Mountain in 1949 in England, and she died in 1969.
        He is survived by his son, Mark, of Manhattan.
        Mr. Suall liked to tell the story of what happened one evening, while he was a young man, when he and the writer James Baldwin went out drinking in Greenwich Village. One of the bars they went to refused to serve Mr. Baldwin because he was black and gay, Mr. Suall said. So the two men left the bar and made placards protesting the bar's policy. And they took the placards and picketed the bar for a time, even though there was snow on the sidewalk.
      