
        Stuart Regen, a widely respected Los Angeles art dealer who also helped develop the Academy Award-winning movie ''Leaving Las Vegas,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 39 and lived in West Hollywood.
        He had been battling non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for nearly a decade, his family said.
        Mr. Regen was born in 1959 in New York City and was a graduate of  Skidmore College, where he studied arts administration. His interest in art stemmed partly from that of his mother, Barbara Gladstone, who opened her own gallery in Manhattan in 1980.
        Mr. Regen's first job in the art world was chief preparator at P.S. 1., an alternative space in Long Island City. In 1985 and '86, he worked briefly as an assistant at a gallery in Cologne, Germany, and then moved to Los Angeles, working as director of the Fred Hoffman Gallery.
        In December 1989, five weeks after he was diagnosed with cancer, he opened his own gallery in West Hollywood. At first he concentrated on artists from New York and Europe, some represented by his mother, whose work was not well known in Los Angeles.
        In 1991 he married Shaun Caley, who became his business partner. In 1992, as the art market waned, the couple relocated to a smaller space next door to the gallery, which they renamed Regen Projects. They began to focus on Los Angeles artists like Lari Pittman and Charles Ray  as well as such emerging artists as Toba Khedoori, Laura Owens, Catherine Opie, Frances Stark and Jennifer Pastor, who were often showing their work for the first time. The couple gave the New York sculptor and film maker Matthew Barney his first gallery exhibition.
        Los Angeles stimulated Mr. Regen's interests in the movies. In the early 1990's, after reading ''Leaving Las Vegas,'' a semi-autobiographical novel by John O'Brien, he met with the writer, optioned the book and contacted his friend, the director Mike Figgis, who eventually directed the award-winning 1995 movie based on the book. Mr. Regen was credited as associate producer.
        In addition to his wife and his mother, Mr. Regen is survived by his grandmother, Evelyn Leavitt of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and two brothers, David and Richard, both of Manhattan.
      