
        Wallace Fowlie, a professor emeritus of French literature at Duke University who once compared the rock singer Jim Morrison to the poet Arthur Rimbaud, died on Sunday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 89 and lived in Chapel Hill.
        Mr. Fowlie gained prominence as a scholar by writing more than 20 books focusing on the great French poets and other literary figures of the 19th and 20th centuries, including Baudelaire, Dante, Mallarme, Proust, Rimbaud and Verlaine. He crossed into popular culture and received national attention in 1994 when, as an octogenarian, he wrote ''Rimbaud and Jim Morrison: The Rebel as Poet,'' published by Duke University Press.
        Mr. Fowlie said that the French poet and the lead singer of the Doors  both were rebels who grew up without fathers, experimented with drugs and alcohol and dealt with death and pathos in their writings.
        Born in Brookline, Mass., Mr. Fowlie, in his 1978 autobiography, ''Journal of Rehearsal,'' described the formative experiences that led to his lifelong love of all things French: the pleasure felt at first hearing the musical sounds of the French language, of Mary Garden singing Louise in Charpentier's opera, and his awe when, as a child, he listened to Paul Claudel, then French Ambassador in Washington, deliver an incomprehensible speech at the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston.
        He studied at Harvard University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in 1930, a master's degree in 1933 and a Ph.D. in 1936, after which he traveled to Paris briefly for the first time, the names of the streets and monuments long since memorized from his readings. He took up teaching upon his return, with stints at Bennington College, the University of Chicago and Yale University before arriving at Duke in 1964.
        In a 1975 review in The New York Times of ''Letters of Henry Miller and Wallace Fowlie,'' which traced seven years of correspondence between the writer and the scholar -- much of it focusing on the place of the artist in society, and on Rimbaud -- Mr. Fowlie was described as ''a devout Catholic, a man of genuine sensitivity, a devotee of French literature and a critic who was particularly interested in such spirit-laden figures as Narcissus, Hamlet and the clown.''
        It was this sensitivity that led to his success in the classroom, said his  longtime friend and colleague, Marcel Tetel, a professor of French at Duke. ''One of his greatest assets was that he was revered by his students,'' Mr. Tetel said. ''He developed friendships with many of his students. He talked to them at length after class, and he would even have them over to his house for dinner. His classes were always full.''
        In a 1993 interview, Mr. Fowlie said he had always seen his role ''as transcending that of a mere academic adviser.'' Rather, he offered encouragement, a friendly word and an occasional rebuke along with his insights.
        His unending quest, he said, was the answer to the question, What is poetry? The solution, he believed, rested in ''the direction of an individual toward a decent life.''
        No immediate family members survive.
      