
        James A. Perkins, a former president of Cornell University and an authority on higher education for philanthropic and national advisory groups, died on Thursday at a rest home in Burlington, Vt. He was 86 and had lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Perkins became Cornell's president in 1963 and immediately signaled his intention to establish Cornell as a center for practical research. He restructured existing engineering programs and introduced others, particularly in medicine and the sciences. Among his ambitious construction projects were the Space Sciences building, which housed the laboratories of Carl Sagan and other astrophysicists, and the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, which was designed by I. M. Pei.
        But Dr. Perkins resigned his post after only six years in office, having come under severe criticism for his handling of a confrontation with a group of armed students in April 1969 that brought national attention to the campus and indelibly marked his brief tenure. The occupation of the Cornell student union by black students set the stage for racial confrontations at campuses around the country and is remembered as one of the most controversial of the decade.
        The furor began with demands by the campus's relatively small number of black students for a stronger role in developing curriculum and, at one point, a separate college for black students. There were fist-shaking demonstrations and finally -- the action that caught the attention of the nation -- the armed occupation of Willard Straight Hall.
        After the building had been occupied for more than 30 hours, administration officials agreed to a number of concessions, including a pledge to nullify any judicial proceeding against the group. That led the students to leave the hall. They would later be pictured on television and in periodicals as grim-faced and carrying rifles and shotguns.
        Many faculty members were outraged at this image of Cornell and at what they considered the school's outright surrender to armed threats. They voted overwhelmingly to reject the agreement between the student rebels and the administration. Dr. Perkins's critics also called into question his efforts to accelerate the recruitment of minority students, whose number rose during his tenure to 250 from fewer than 10.
        Two days after the vote, facing the threat of further turmoil, the Cornell faculty reversed itself and nullified disciplinary action against the students. Many faculty members and some trustees accused Dr. Perkins of having sold out and began an investigation of the episode. Less than two months later, Dr. Perkins submitted his resignation.
        In 1995, in a footnote to that troublesome period, a Cornell trustee, Thomas W. Jones -- a senior executive in the Travelers Group -- established the James A. Perkins Prize for Intrerracial Understanding and Harmony at Cornell. What made the gift remarkable, Mr. Perkins's son David said yesterday, was that Mr. Jones had been a leader of the African-American group that had taken over Willard Straight Hall.
        James Alfred Perkins was born in Philadelphia on Oct. 11, 1911. He graduated from Swarthmore College in 1934 and earned a master's degree and doctorate in political science at Princeton University. After teaching at Princeton and Swarthmore, he became a vice president of the Carnegie Corporation, for which he directed philanthropic work for 13 years. He was also wrote influential reports on government and military planning that led to an active role as an adviser of government groups on  education and defense. He was a national security adviser to John F. Kennedy during his time as a Senator and during his Presidency.
        After Dr. Perkins's departure from Cornell, he continued to be active in education policy and government issues. From 1967 to 1973, he was a member of the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. In 1978, President Jimmy Carter appointed him chairman of the President's Commission on Foreign Language and International Studies. At his death, he was chairman emeritus of the International Council for Educational Development, in Princeton.
        He was the author of a number of books and articles, including ''The University in Transition'' (Princeton University Press, 1966).
        In addition to his son David, of Raleigh, N.C., Mr. Perkins is survived by his wife, Ruth; another son, John, of Sheridan, Ore.; three daughters, Barbara Tinker of Carlisle, Mass., Joan Bredin-Price of Amherst, Mass., and Tracy Perkins of Northhampton, Mass.; four stepchildren, Cecelia Matthews of Princeton, Mea Kaemmerlen of Plainsboro, N.J., Pamela McPherson of Washington, and Christian Aall of Boston; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      