
        Robert Willis Warren, a senior Federal judge in Wisconsin who caused a national uproar in 1979 when he reluctantly became the first Federal judge ever to sign a prior restraint order against a magazine, died on Thursday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee. He was 72 and lived in Mequon, a Milwaukee suburb.
        The cause was cancer, said the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, to which President Richard M. Nixon had nominated Mr. Warren in 1974 in what turned out to be one of his final official acts before leaving the White House.
        The target of the judge's order was The Progressive, a left-wing magazine in Madison, Wis., which had scheduled an article by a freelance writer, Howard Morland, entitled ''The H-Bomb Secret: How We Got It, Why We're Telling It.''
        The Federal Government contended that the article told ''how a hydrogen bomb works,'' and Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger asserted that publication ''would irreparably impair the national security.''
        The Progressive then accused the Department of Justice of making a ''sweeping attack on the First Amendment rights of the American people.'' It also rejected an out-of-court compromise suggested by Judge Warren.
        Caught in the middle, the judge ruled that the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment were ''not absolute and unlimited'' and forbade publication until the courts could sort things out.
        It was not a task he relished. ''Such notoriety is not to be sought,'' Judge Warren said in court. Predictably, his action prompted a furor that allied civil libertarians, publishers and editorial writers.
        An appeals court set aside Judge Warren's injunction several months later, and The Progressive published the article. The appeals panel then halted all further litigation in the case but kept some documents under seal, an action the American Civil Liberties Union vainly protested.
        Born in Raton, N.M., Robert Warren graduated from Macalaster College in St. Paul and earned a master's degree at the University of Minnesota. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School in 1956 and went into private practice in Elkhorn and Green Bay. He became an assistant district attorney in 1958. A Republican, he served as a state senator and assistant majority leader in the 1960's and as Wisconsin Attorney General from 1969 until he joined the court.
        He took senior status and a reduced work load in 1991.
        Judge Warren is survived by his wife of 50 years, Laverne Voagen Warren; three daughters, Cheryl W. Sensenbrenner, Treva W. Livesey and Tara Warren; three sons, Iver E., Gregg A. and Lyle D. Warren; a brother, David; seven sisters, Dorothy Olson, Bonnie Conditt, Betty Moede, Marylin Blackmon, Jean Miller, Robin Cooprider and Lynda Warren, and 12 grandchildren.
      