
        Kenneth S. Norris, a naturalist and researcher who uncovered much of what is known about dolphins and other marine mammals, died on Aug. 16 at the University of California at Santa Cruz Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz.
        Dr. Norris, an emeritus professor of natural history at the university, underwent heart surgery several months ago and never fully recovered, his family and colleagues said.
        ''He took the study of marine mammals and made it a science,'' said Dr. Randall Wells, a conservation biologist with the Chicago Zoological Society who studied under Dr. Norris. ''He was one of the primary founders of the field.''
        As curator of Marineland of the Pacific, one of the country's first large aquariums, Dr. Norris confirmed that dolphins use sound transmission to see, a process known as echolocation.
        At the time, in the mid-1950's, dolphin echolocation was only a theory. It was Dr. Norris's team that figured out a way to blindfold a dolphin and conduct tests. ''He did a tremendous amount of work to understand how they do it,'' said Dr. Daniel P. Costa, another former student and a biology professor at Santa Cruz.
        Dr. Norris became fascinated with dolphins' well-developed ability to process sounds.
        ''In an ocean full of dullards, what good is such a brain?'' he asked in a 1980 interview. ''Certainly complicated nervous machinery is not needed for concourse with jellyfish, sea cucumbers and sponges.''
        The answer, he discovered, was that dolphins use sound to determine a lot more than distance and direction; they can also distinguish characteristics like size, shape, even texture. The dolphin brain can tell the difference between, say, a sheet of copper and one of aluminum.
        ''It is very hard for us to imagine sensory systems and processes we do not have,'' he said in the interview. ''It's a bit like a man from outer space tapping into the Bell System center and trying to make sense of all the beeps and sounds.''
        Dr. Norris received bachelor's and master's degrees in zoology from the University of California at Los Angeles and a doctorate from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego. He taught at U.C.L.A. and did research at the Oceanic Institute in Hawaii before going to Santa Cruz in the 1970's. He retired in 1990.
        He is survived by his wife, Phyllis; a brother, Robert, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; three daughters, Susie, of Santa Cruz, Nancy Norris Littlestone of Princeton, N.J., and Barbara Gaskell of Lincoln, Neb.; a son, Richard, of Falmouth, Mass., and six grandchildren.
        Some of his early work was far removed from dolphins. He studied desert reptiles and also made important contributions to understanding circadian rhythms in snakes.
        In 1965 he founded the California Natural Reserve System, a collection of protected natural habitats that has grown to 120,000 acres. He wrote books about marine mammals, including ''Dolphin Days: The Life and Times of the Spinner Dolphin'' (W. W. Norton, 1991), a personal account of his research. He was instrumental in the writing of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.
        In later years, Dr. Norris studied sociability among dolphins, trying to understand why in the open ocean they congregate in schools while closer to shore they travel in smaller groups. He acknowledged that answers remained elusive.
        ''He thought they were magical, mythical animals,'' said Dr. Dawn Goley, a biologist at Humboldt State University in Arcata, Calif., and Dr. Norris's last graduate student. ''But then again, he thought that bats and lizards and other animals were, too.''
      