
        Woody Stephens, one of seven children of a Kentucky sharecropper who became a legendary trainer of horses and won the Kentucky Derby twice and the Belmont Stakes a record five times in a row, died yesterday at the Heartland Health Care Center in Miami Lakes, Fla. He would have turned 85 on Sept. 1.
        Stephens entered the hospital on Aug. 7 to be treated for chronic emphysema, and died from complications of the disease, the New York Racing Association reported.
        ''He was one of the most renowned trainers in the United States, and one of the most respected horsemen in thoroughbred racing,'' Kenny Noe, chairman of the racing association, said yesterday. ''If there ever was anyone who lived this game, it was Woody Stephens. He had no other interests. His accomplishments, especially his five Belmont Stakes wins, will never be exceeded.''
        Stephens came to symbolize old-fashioned racing success by rising literally from rags to riches during a career that spanned seven decades.
        He started with little education and no money and became one of the century's most accomplished and honored trainers.
        Stephens, a short, down-home, folksy man, won his first race as a jockey at Hialeah Park in Florida in 1931, and saddled his first winner as a trainer at the Keeneland racecourse in Kentucky in 1936.
        After that, Stephens trained nine national champions, five fillies who won the Kentucky Oaks, two colts who won the Kentucky Derby and two who ran the fastest Metropolitan Mile in history.
        He was elected to the racing Hall of Fame in 1976, he won the Eclipse Award as America's best trainer in 1983 and then put all the memories together in 1985 in an autobiography titled, ''Guess I'm Lucky.''
        He never lost his country manner or country accent. But once he arrived in New York as a trainer in 1943, he became a constant on the thoroughbred scene.
        The roster of his star horses became a galaxy: Cannonade, who won the Kentucky Derby in 1974; Caveat; Conquistador Cielo; Creme Fraiche; Devil's Bag; Forty Niner; Gone West; Stephan's Odyssey, and his sentimental favorite, Swale, who won the Derby and the Belmont in 1984.
        For Stephens, though, no horse symbolized the joy and the sorrow of racing as stunningly as Swale, who collapsed and died outside his barn at Belmont Park one week after winning the Belmont Stakes.
        His trainer said, ''Swale was the best of all.''
        Stephens presided over his horse empire from a cottage alongside Barn 3 at Belmont, working at an old desk in an office piled high with papers, surrounded by pictures of horses of long ago with newspaper clippings on the walls, including one with a banner headline that read, ''When It's Belmont Day, It's Nobody But Woody.''
        He agreed that the most prized of his accomplishments was winning the mile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes from 1982 through 1986.
        ''They were five different horses and five different races,'' he said. ''Three of the five won in the mud. And they all won with authority.''
        In one of those years he had two horses in the race and they ran 1-2.
        ''They tell me,'' he said, ''that it's like Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak.
        ''Nobody's likely to break it. Only one other trainer ever won two Belmonts in a row in modern times. That was Lucien Laurin, and he had Secretariat and Riva Ridge.''
        He reflected back across the years to the farm in Stanton, Ky., where he was born in 1913, and where his mother and father raised five daughters, two sons, a bunch of chickens and somebody else's tobacco crops.
        ''My father was a sharecropper,'' he said. ''He'd sit me on the back of a mule and say, 'He's a born horseman.' ''
        Stephens got into racing at 17, when he rode three horses in races in Chicago. Then he went south to Hialeah and rode a winner.
        ''Then one day five years later,'' he said, ''I was galloping horses for John S. Ward, and he put my name in the program as the trainer of one of his horses. It was at Keeneland, a filly named Wise Dart. She didn't run in the money, but Mr. Ward said to me, 'It might do you some good someday.' ''
        It did.
        Stephens's run of success in the Belmont began in 1982 with Conquistador Cielo, who won the race by 14 lengths on Saturday after winning the Metropolitan Mile on Monday in the record time of 1:33.
        The next year, Caveat ran third in the Kentucky Derby but won the Belmont.
        And the year after that, Swale won the Florida Derby, the Kentucky Derby and the Belmont Stakes.
        Stephens said of Swale: ''A week after winning the Belmont, he galloped some and later just fell over. The autopsy never showed anything. They never could prove he had a heart attack. He never took any medication. We just used to fix his teeth, and nothing else.''
        But Stephens's streak in the Belmont continued the next year, with flourishes. He saddled Creme Fraiche for one owner and Stephan's Odyssey for another, and they finished 1-2 in that order in the mud. And in 1986, again on a sloppy track, he made it five in a row with Danzig Connection.
        How did it all happen?
        ''I don't know,'' he said. ''I just ran fit horses. My best horses.''
        He is survived by his wife, Lucille, whom he married in 1938 and who became his constant companion during decades of traveling. He even trained some race horses for her.
        She accompanied him late in his career when he spent long sieges in the hospital in Louisville, coping with emphysema, heart surgery and a broken hip.
        And she was with him when he returned to Belmont Park on opening day in 1991 and the crowd stood and cheered as they entered their box and the tote board flashed the message in lights:
        ''Welcome Home, Woody.''
      