
        Harry H. Lunn Jr., the international art dealer who played a major role in creating a fine-art photography market that has seen canonical vintage prints sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars, died on Friday in Paris, where he had a home.
        A week earlier, while preparing to board a train to his country house in Normandy, Mr. Lunn had a heart attack and lapsed into a coma, said Clark Worswick, a friend. He was 65.
        Until Mr. Lunn marketed photographs on an unprecedented grand scale -- with big inventories, slick catalogues and sales on several continents -- few thought photographs would sell to the public.
        During the first two decades of this century, Alfred Stieglitz's gallery 291 was much more a showcase for modern art than it was a photography gallery. In the 1930's and 40's, Julien Levy showed photographs at his New York art gallery, but there was no market for them. In the 1950's, Helen Gee's Greenwich Village coffeehouse, Limelight, had a photographic gallery at the back that exhibited the work of masters like Paul Strand, Robert Frank and Imogene Cunningham. But even when pictures were about $15 each, only a few sold.
        In 1970, when Mr. Lunn became interested in photography, only one gallery in the United States -- opened by Lee Witkin in Manhattan in 1969 -- was devoted to the medium. Mr. Lunn had a gallery in Washington that sold lithographs and drawings. While visiting a publisher of etchings and photographic portfolios in Manhattan, he saw Ansel Adams's ''Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico.'' ''This was an extraordinarily graphic, marvelous image,'' he recalled in a 1996 interview. ''As a dealer in prints I could very much relate to it. I didn't even know who Ansel Adams was.''
        In January 1971, Mr. Lunn exhibited Adams's photographs. Shortly before the show's opening, The Washington Post ran a lengthy review of the show saying, as Mr. Lunn put it, that ''this was the greatest thing since Moses and the Tabernacle.''  From that show, Mr. Lunn sold an astonishing number of Adams prints; at $150 for a 16-by-20-inch picture, sales totaled $10,000.
        Mr. Lunn cast far afield, becoming the first art dealer, for instance, to exhibit photographs at the Basel Art Fair in Switzerland. And he was one of the biggest buyers of vintage prints at Sotheby's in London, which had begun offering photography at auction in 1970. In 1975 Sotheby's New York began holding regular photography sales. Christie's New York soon followed.
        Informed that Adams would not make more prints after the end of 1975, Mr. Lunn ordered 1,000 prints, concentrating on popular images like  ''Moonrise,'' buying them at an average cost of $300. Mr. Lunn created similar markets for a formidable list of photographers including Walker Evans, Robert Frank, Diane Arbus and Heinrich Kuhn.
        In 1993, a Stieglitz image of Georgia O'Keeffe's hands with a thimble sold for $398,500 at Christie's New York. At the spring photography auctions in New York this year, when sales at four houses totaled a record $10.28 million, Sotheby's sold a 16-by-20-inch ''Moonrise'' for $20,700.
        Mr. Lunn was born in Detroit in  1933 and majored in economics at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. During his senior year, in the mid-1950's, he was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency. He remained with the agency until 1967 when Ramparts magazine mentioned his involvement in the National Students Association, whose international wing was a C.I.A. front.
        His cover blown, Mr. Lunn resigned. He had dealt privately in original etchings and lithographs while he was stationed at the United States Embassy in Paris in the early 1960's, and in 1968 he opened his Washington gallery.
        Once photography entered his life, Mr. Lunn became an avid student, growing especially passionate about 19th-century French photography.
        Such was Mr. Lunn's reputation, said Mr. Worswick, a photography collector and curator, that about 25 years ago when he was offered a collection of 263,000 Edward S. Curtis photogravures, he went to Mr. Lunn because he was ''the only person who could handle it.''
        As it turned out, Mr. Lunn was  financially unable to acquire the collection but the two men became close friends.
        Mr. Lunn closed his Washington gallery in 1983 and dealt privately after that. He made a point of buying and promoting the work of controversial contemporary photographers, including Robert Mapplethorpe, Andres Serrano, Joel-Peter Witkin and the team of McDermott and McGough.
        Mr. Lunn is survived by his wife, Myriam; two daughters, Alexandra and Florence, and a son, Christophe, all of Paris.
        Hank O'Neal, a friend of Mr. Lunn's since the 1970's who has often written about the work of the photographer Berenice Abbott, got to know Mr. Lunn when the art dealer and Marlborough Gallery in Manhattan  jointly bought most of Abbott's early vintage prints and held two exhibitions. Like Mr. Lunn, Mr. O'Neal had  worked for the C.I.A. One of the rituals they shared was the celebration of Abbott's birthday each year.
        With homes in Paris and New York, Mr. Lunn treated trans-Atlantic travel as though it were a taxi ride across town. Last month, he flew to the United States from Paris to  commemorate what would have been Abbott's 100th birthday, joining a group that visited her grave in northern Maine.
        Mr. Lunn had brought the newest fragrance from Paris, as he had every year for Abbott's birthday, and he sprayed it on her tombstone. ''I was walking about,'' Mr. O'Neal recalled, ''and 30 or 40 feet from her grave I saw a flat marker that said 'Harry L.' I called to Harry. He came over and he sprayed that marker too.''
        Correction:  August 27, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Harry H. Lunn Jr., a dealer in fine art photography, omitted the name of a survivor. She is his sister, Barbara Lunn Hall of San Diego.
      