
        Kazimierz Dziewanowski, the first Ambassador of what he proudly called the ''new, democratic and free Poland'' to the United States from 1990 to 1993, died on Wednesday in a hospital at Pisz, Poland. He was in his late 60's and lived in Warsaw.
        His death came from a sudden illness, The Associated Press reported from Warsaw, citing news reports. It said his family had not disclosed the exact cause.
        Mr. Dziewanowski, a tall, courteous writer, was active in the dissident Solidarity movement before the longtime Communist rule in Poland ended when free elections in 1989 gave Solidarity a majority in both houses of the parliament. Then a coalition Government led by Solidarity took power.
        Earlier, he was deputy chief editor of the weekly Solidarity newspaper Tygodnik Solidarnosc at its founding in 1981. In 1989 the weekly's chief editor, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, became Poland's first Prime Minister after Communism. He asked Mr. Dziewanowski to accept the ambassadorship.
        As Ambassador, he strived to build support for Poland's admission to NATO. After Mr. Dziewanowski died, Lech Walesa, the former Solidarity leader and former President of Poland, said: ''He opened the doors to NATO for us. It is a pity he did not live to the moment they are wide open.'' Poland is to join NATO in April.
        Recalling his Washington years in a 1997 interview, Mr. Dziewanowski was frank about the appeal of the United States to young Poles. ''I was once approached by the Polish community in America to meet with some young Poles living in the region of Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia.'' he said. ''So I invited them, and we had a great gathering at our embassy, until I realized that at least half of the audience was illegally in the country. So I had to make it short.''
        In recent years his writings about United States and international affairs in the Polish daily Rzeczpospolita were widely quoted.
        A native of Warsaw, he studied law at Warsaw University and became a journalist and author. In 1981, when the Government imposed martial law, he was dismissed from his job at an intellectual weekly, Literatura.
        His survivors include his wife, Malgorzata, and a daughter, Krystyna..
      