
        Solon G. Vlasto, the publisher of what was once the largest daily Greek-language newspaper in the United States, died yesterday in a convalescent home in Athens. He was 94.
        Mr. Vlasto was born in Athens in 1903 and came to the United States in 1918. Shortly thereafter, he began working as a copy boy at The Atlantis, the New York-based Greek-language daily, which at its peak had a circulation of 22,000. The newspaper was founded by his uncle, Solon J. Vlasto.
        The young Solon G. Vlasto would later work as a reporter, an ad salesman and starting in 1944, the publisher of The Atlantis. The newspaper was later willed to him by his uncle.
        The newspaper thrived after World War II as the United States allowed more immigrants from Greece. The paper and Mr. Vlasto's social prominence grew further in the 1950's with the rise of a group of wealthy Greek shipowners, such as Aristotle Onassis, who advertised in The Atlantis.
        ''It was a heady time,'' recalled James S. Vlasto, his son, who worked as a reporter for The Atlantis in the 1950's and 1960's before becoming the press secretary to Gov. Hugh L. Carey of New York. ''That's when the paper reached is zenith in circulation, advertising and influence.''
        He was courted by politicians seeking the support of the Greek-American community and was consulted by elected officials on issues relating to Greece. Near the huge leather-tooled desk in his office were pictures of Mr. Vlasto with President Harry Truman and President Dwight Eisenhower, along with an invitation to the wedding of Mr. Onassis and Jacqueline Kennedy.
        The Atlantis was founded in 1894 by Solon J. Vlasto, who had already become a successful lamp-oil merchant in New York, after immigrating in 1880. Mr. Vlasto was the president of the first Greek Orthodox church in New York, what is now the Holy Trinity Cathedral. And he was one of the original residents of the Dakota in 1884, the pioneering apartment building on Central Park West.
        The paper built its reputation by handing dictionaries, imprinted with the Atlantis name, to immigrants as they disembarked from ships from Greece. Later it built a publishing business based on dictionaries, English grammar books and cookbooks teaching Greeks how to make American food.
        By the end of the 1960's, the newspaper fell on hard times. By the time it closed in 1973, its circulation had fallen to 14,000 a day from a peak of 22,000 in 1950. But the final blow came from a strike by the Newspaper Guild and other unions that lasted nearly a year.
        In October 1973, the paper closed  after it was evicted by the landlord of its offices on West 23d Street in Manhattan because it had not paid its rent.
        After the newspaper closed, Mr. Vlasto moved to Kifisia, a suburb of Athens, where his parents lived. He did not work, although he was often quoted by the local newspapers about Greek-American affairs.
        Mr. Vlasto is survived by two sons, James, who lives in New York, and George S. Vlasto, a retired biology professor, who lives in Kent, Conn.  He is also survived by four grandchildren and a great-granddaughter. His wife, Tima, whom he married in 1926, died in 1993.
        Correction:  August 29, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about Solon G. Vlasto, a former publisher of The Atlantis, a defunct Greek-language newspaper based in New York, misstated the number of surviving grandchildren. It is five, not four.
      