
        Charles C. Diggs Jr., a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus whose 26-year career in the House ended in disgrace when he was convicted and imprisoned for taking kickbacks from his staff members, died on Monday at the Greater Southeast Community Hospital here. He was 75 and lived in the Maryland suburb of Hillcrest Heights.
        His son, Douglass, said the cause was a stroke.
        Mr. Diggs, a Democrat from Detroit, was an early and aggressive Congressional advocate for black causes and helped increase American aid to Africa.
        But in 1978 he was indicted on  charges that, among other things, he had taken kickbacks from three of his Congressional employees.
        Testifying on his own behalf, Mr. Diggs said the employees had made their salaries available willingly when he was in ''very dire financial straits.''
        The jury found him guilty of all 29 counts against him in October 1978, but he was re-elected to his 13th term the next month while awaiting sentencing. Later that month, he was sentenced to up to three years in jail.
        In July 1979 the House voted unanimously to censure Mr. Diggs, who had remained free on appeal, after half an hour of floor discussion in which no one spoke in his defense. He resigned his seat in June 1980. A month later, he entered the minimum-security prison at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama and was released after serving seven months.
        Mr. Diggs's fall was in sharp contrast to his rise. He was elected to Congress in 1954 at the age of 31, a victory that increased the number of blacks in the House of Representatives to three from two.
        There are 39 members of the Congressional Black Caucus now. If that organization had existed when Mr. Diggs arrived in January 1955, a small room would have been big enough for a meeting of those eligible for membership -- Mr. Diggs and Representatives Adam Clayton Powell Jr. of Harlem and William Dawson of Chicago.
        Representative William L. Clay, Democrat of Missouri, recalled today that the number of blacks in Congress had risen to six by the 1960's and that Mr. Diggs had organized them into the Select Democratic Group to lobby the Democratic leadership on issues important to blacks.
        When Mr. Clay entered the House with Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn and Louis Stokes of Cleveland in 1969, the black members of Congress, now numbering nine, converted the group into the caucus and named Mr. Diggs as the first chairman. The black caucus is one of the most prominent such groups in Congress.
        ''Charlie led us in the investigations of the Black Panther killings in Chicago and the killings of the students at Jackson State,'' Mr. Clay said of incidents in 1969 and 1970.
        In the Black Panther case, Fred Hampton and Mark Clark, two leaders of the organization, were shot to death in a police raid on their Chicago apartment in 1969. Supporters of the Black Panthers called it murder; the police said they were returning gunfire.
        Mr. Diggs said at the inquiry: ''There are certain obvious conclusions to a layman. All the projectiles were coming from one direction -- going in.''
        In May 1970 at Jackson State College in Mississippi, two blacks were killed and seven wounded when police fired into a dormitory during a protest. The police said sniper fire had preceded the shootings; blacks at the scene disputed that. Black leaders called it an ''unprovoked massacre,'' and the Federal Bureau of Investigation was called in.
        Both Mr. Clay and Representative John Conyers Jr., another Democrat from Detroit, said Mr. Diggs had pressed the United States to improve relations with the developing countries in Africa and to provide them with assistance.
        As a result, Mr. Clay said, Mr. Diggs was a hero to many Africans.
        ''We went on a trip to Sierra Leone,'' Mr. Clay said, ''and the plane was due to arrive at 8 o'clock at night. We were delayed until 1 A.M., but there were 10,000 people still there waiting at the airport to greet us.
        ''Until Muhammad Ali came along, Diggs was the most popular American in Africa.''
        Representative Conyers said that Mr. Diggs had been heavily criticized for his many trips to Africa, but he insisted that they paid dividends to the United States.
        ''He was creating a support system for the United States in Africa,'' Mr. Conyers said.
        Mr. Diggs's father, also named Charles, was a wealthy real estate investor and funeral director and served in the Michigan Senate. Charles Diggs Jr. followed his father into both the funeral business and the legislature. (Douglass Diggs, also a funeral director in Detroit, lost in the Democratic primary for that same seat this year.)
        Besides his son, Mr. Diggs is survived by his wife, Darlene; another son, Charles C. 3d of Wayne, Mich.; four daughters, Denise Diggs Taylor of Ann Arbor, Mich., Alexis Robinson of New York City, Carla Diggs of Washington, and Cindy Diggs, also of Washington, and 13 grandchildren.
        Mr. Diggs attended the University of Michigan and Fisk University before being drafted into the Army in 1943. He became a second lieutenant and spent a year with the famed Tuskegee Airmen in Alabama but never became a pilot because of poor eyesight, his son said. He spent the rest of the war as an administrator.
        ''Racism in the armed forces during World War II had a great impact on him,'' Douglass Diggs said today. ''That racism and the racism in the rest of the country moved him to get involved in social activism.''
        Mr. Diggs resigned from the American Legion in 1959, for example, in a public protest over the legion's refusal to integrate the 40 & 8, a subsidiary that called itself a ''fun-making body.'' In 1960, he joined four other members of Congress in a picket line at the Glen Echo amusement park in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, protesting segregation there.
        In an interview with The Washington Star in 1972, Mr. Diggs said that as an officer in 1944 he was forced to use the back door -- the ''colored carryout'' -- at an Alabama restaurant that routinely served German prisoners of war.
        ''That was the shock of recognition for me,'' Mr. Diggs said, ''that an enemy was more welcome than a black.''
      