
        E. G. Marshall, a character actor who projected the image of a knowledgeable professional or an elder statesman in plays, films and television, died on Monday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 84.
        Mr. Marshall, an articulate, witty man with intense eyes and sharp features, earned prominence in two weekly hourlong television series that had both artistic merit and wide popularity: ''The Defenders,'' which ran from 1961 to 1965, and ''The New Doctors,'' from 1969 to 1973.
        He won Emmy Awards in 1962 and 1963 for playing the father and senior partner in the law firm Preston & Preston in ''The Defenders,'' providing postgraduate training for his son, played by Robert Reed, in the intricacies of the judicial system.
        Then, in ''The New Doctors'' series of ''The Bold Ones,'' he played the heroic chief of a hospital research institute dedicated to achieving scientific breakthroughs. In later television specials, his humane persona glowed in portrayals of two Presidents, Harry S. Truman in ''Collision Course'' (1976) and Dwight D. Eisenhower in ''Ike'' (1986).
        In his film roles, Mr. Marshall often found himself in and around the legal profession. He played an implacable juror in ''12 Angry Men'' (1957) and a stoic prosecutor in both ''Compulsion'' (1959) and ''Town Without Pity'' (1961). Other roles ranged from a restless patriarch in Woody Allen's ''Interiors'' (1978) to a beleaguered President in ''Superman II'' (1980). His score of films  also included ''The Caine Mutiny'' (1954), ''The Bachelor Party'' (1957) and ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' (1970). He played Attorney General John N. Mitchell in Oliver Stone's 1995 movie ''Nixon.'' In 1997, he was a philanthropist with a young wife in Clint Eastwood's ''Absolute Power.''
        On Broadway, he appeared in ''The Skin of Our Teeth'' (1942), ''Jacobowsky and the Colonel'' (1944) and ''Red Roses for Me'' (1956). He played two venal brothers, successively, in a 1967-68 revival of ''The Little Foxes.'' He succeeded other actors in leading roles in ''The Iceman Cometh'' (1946), ''The Crucible'' (1953), ''Plaza Suite'' (1968) and ''The Gin Game'' (1978). In 1980 he starred opposite Irene Worth and Rosemary Murphy in Ibsen's ''John Gabriel Borkman.'' On occasion he worked Off Broadway, for instance, as Father Tim Farley in a 1984 revival of ''Mass Appeal.''
        Mr. Marshall scored a major success as a derelict philosopher in the Broadway premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' in 1956. He took issue with detractors of the mystical, eventually classic play by describing its theme not as pessimistic, but as positive in affirming that ''no matter what -- atom bombs, hydrogen bombs, anything -- life goes on: you can kill yourself, but you can't kill life.''
        In a 1958 interview, he extolled ''Godot'' as ''a real theater piece -- not something that has to be molded and hacked to fit in a theater.'' He continued: ''The theater today is too flaccid, too passive, too dull. It is good to have it stirred up by a play like this.''
        Mr. Marshall relished performing in regional theaters, where he received his professional training and later starred in ''Macbeth'' and ''The Master Builder.'' Away from Broadway, he said in 1977, ''you have so much respect for serious theater; on Broadway they want jokes and songs and razzmatazz, and a serious actor can die a terrible death.''
        He also praised early television for taking chances and deplored later trends like police shows and gag-strewn sitcoms. He rejected offers from producers who wanted him only to portray what he called ''establishment daddies.'' He modestly termed himself a ''utility'' actor who ''fit in easily,'' while his authoritative voice made him one of the most sought-after narrators on both television and radio and in commercials.
        Though a charter member of the Actors Studio, he denied using any specific acting method. ''I use anything that helps me,'' he said in 1978.  He added: ''I try to think what the character is thinking. Then, hopefully, I begin to feel it. I act and react not because I'm recalling a dog killed by a fire engine, but because I'm concentrating on what the character is going through.''
        E. G. Marshall was born on June 18, 1910, in Owatonna, Minn., to parents of Norwegian descent. In interviews, he was informative about every subject except his background, which he considered private. Published records listed his birth date as June 18, 1910, but in a 1997 interview with The Associated Press he insisted that he was born in 1914. His daughter Degen Sayer said last night that she believed the year was 1914.  Writers speculated that his first name might be Everett, while he whimsically suggested that his initials might, or might not, stand for ''Edda Gunnar'' or ''Enigma Gregarious.'' Asked what E. G. stood for, Mr. Marshall's son-in-law, David Sayer, said, ''It will go with him to his grave.''
        In any case, his nickname was ''Eej.'' His father, Charles Marshall, worked for a telephone company. He attended Carleton College and the University of Minnesota and worked briefly for a Minneapolis-St. Paul radio station. Soon after, he said, he ''joined a touring Shakespearean company in the Deep South and spent three or four years playing Guildenstern and all the really terrible parts.''
        Nonetheless, he acted his way to Broadway, where he began doing supporting roles for the Federal Theater Project. He honed his skills mostly in the 500-odd plays he did on major television anthology series, many of them in live productions.
        Mr. Marshall is survived by his wife, Judith; two daughters from his first marriage, Jill Marshall of San Francisco and Ms. Sayer of Rye, N.Y.; two sons, Samuel of Oxford, Ohio, and Jed of Providence, R.I., and a daughter, Sarah, from his second marriage, and three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        The actor, a liberal Democrat, savored ''The Defenders'' and ''The New Doctors,'' which tackled risky issues like political blacklisting and narcotics. ''The Defenders'' included a 1962 episode in which his character defended an abortionist. CBS broadcast that episode despite protests by viewers and cancellations by sponsors. ''The Defenders'' deepened his personal concern about American constitutional liberties. He took a course in jurisprudence, pressed to add the character of a black judge to the series, aided documentaries on deprived groups in society and volunteered to help legal-rights groups.
        For years, Mr. Marshall was eager to bring back ''The Defenders,'' and in 1997 he starred in ''Payback,''the first of what was planned to be a series of movies for television. A second new ''Defenders'' was also completed. Once again he was Lawrence Preston, now the patriarch of two generations of family lawyers, with Beau Bridges as his son and Martha Plimpton as his granddaughter. Thirty-six years after Mr. Marshall created the role, Lawrence Preston was still a strong and uncompromising defense lawyer.
      