
        Floyd K. Haskell, whose tall frame and rugged good looks made him seem chiseled for his role as a United States Senator but who never felt quite comfortable in the part, died today at a hospital here in his hometown. He was 82.
        The ABC News correspondent Cokie Roberts, a friend of the family, said the cause of death was pneumonia, a complication that arose from a brain hemorrhage that Mr. Haskell  suffered four years ago when he slipped on an icy sidewalk and hit his head. He had been vacationing in Maine with his wife, Nina Totenberg, a legal affairs correspondent for National Public Radio and ABC's ''Nightline'' program, when his condition deteriorated.
        Mr. Haskell, a Democrat from Colorado, where he had once been a state legislator, was considered by some an ''accidental'' Senator because of his narrow surprise victory over a longtime Republican incumbent, Gordon Allott, in 1972. By the end of his term, he had carved out a modest niche not only as a tax reformer but also as an advocate for the environment, having helped create wilderness areas and encouraged experiments with solar energy.
        A liberal in a Republican state, he was defeated for re-election in 1978 by William L. Armstrong, a conservative who ran an aggressive, well-financed campaign against Mr. Haskell, who disdained showmanship  and had angered special-interest groups.
        Originally a registered Republican, Mr. Haskell said the Vietnam War drove him into the Democratic fold in 1970.
        ''I considered myself well out of politics at the time,'' he said in a 1978 interview. ''I never planned to run for office again. I had become more and more opposed to the war in Vietnam, and when Nixon invaded Cambodia, that was it. I just felt I couldn't stay in the Republican Party any longer. I went down to the courthouse and changed my registration. It was a private act of conscience.''
        Mr. Haskell was born in Morristown, N.J., the son of an investment banker. He graduated from Harvard  and then Harvard Law School, where he took a fancy to tax law. He served in the Army during World War II,  seeing action in Asia and achieving the rank of major.
        Later he married Eileen Nicoll and, intent on proving his mettle out West, soon afterward moved to Colorado, where he specialized in tax law. From 1965 to 1969, he served in the Colorado House, becoming assistant majority leader in 1967.
        After his one term in Washington, he worked as a lobbyist, served on the board of the watchdog group Common Cause and was active with a bipartisan group of retired lawmakers pushing for changes in campaign finance laws and trying to break Congressional gridlock.
        He is survived by his second wife, Ms. Totenberg; by three daughters, Ione Haskell of New York, Eve Maxwell of Colorado and Pam Haskell of California, all the children of his first wife, and by three grandchildren.
      