
        Francesco Crucitti, who performed emergency surgery on Pope John Paul II after an assassination attempt in 1981 and went on to become his personal surgeon, died in Rome today. He was 67.
        Dr. Crucitti, a professor of surgery at the medical school of the Catholic University of Italy, had been suffering from prostate cancer and had undergone surgery recently at the Johns Hopkins University medical center.
        The Pope, who had come into Rome today from his summer residence at Castel Gandolfo for a regular weekly audience, later traveled to Dr. Crucitti's home near the center of the city to offer condolences to his widow, Alessandra, and the couple's three children. The Pope said he had come ''to show you in some way my appreciation for this man who saved my life.''
        Dr. Crucitti had last operated on the Pope in 1996, when he performed a 50-minute operation at the Catholic University Agostino Gemelli Hospital, on the edge of Rome, to remove the Pope's appendix. Four years earlier, when John Paul was 72, Dr. Crucitti performed an operation of almost four hours to excise a large tumor from the Pope's colon and to remove his gall bladder.
        That operation, which was performed in an atmosphere of unaccustomed secrecy, prompted speculation that the tumor was malignant. But at a news conference after the operation, Dr. Crucitti dispelled suggestions that the growth was cancerous, describing it as ''absolutely benign.''
        But the most dramatic moment in Dr. Crucitti's career came in May 1981, when he was called on to perform almost six hours of emergency surgery on the Pope after a bullet fired by a gunman, Mehmet Ali Agca of Turkey, perforated the Pope's abdominal cavity. Later that year, Dr. Crucitti operated on the Pope to restore the normal functioning of his intestines by reversing a colostomy performed on the day of the shooting.
        Dr. Crucitti, who headed one of the Gemelli Hospital's three surgical units at the time, had been examining patients in a nearby hospital when a nun told him that the Pope had been shot. On the way to the Gemelli Hospital, where the Pope had been taken by ambulance from the scene of the shooting at the Vatican, Dr. Crucitti is said to have stopped a policeman to ask for an escort, pleading, ''I am the surgeon who will operate on the Pope.''
        In a long interview with The New York Times, Dr. Crucitti later recalled that he had worked at a hectic pace, first to stop the Pope's internal bleeding, then to repair the extensive damage done to his intestines. ''The Pope's blood pressure was dropping rapidly,'' Dr. Crucitti said, ''but he was not in shock.''
        At a news conference after the operation, Dr. Crucitti described the Pope's condition as grave. ''The course of the next hours and the next few days will give us the answer, which we hope will be favorable,'' he said.
        It was the first time in this century that a pope had been treated outside the Vatican.
        Whether the growth removed from the Pope's intestine in 1992 was cancerous was not the only public questioning regarding the Pope's health into which Dr. Crucitti was drawn.
        In 1996, after the operation to remove John Paul's appendix, Dr. Crucitti was asked about a trembling that noticeably affected the Pope's left hand. The condition had given rise to speculation that the Pope was suffering from Parkinson's Disease or a related disorder.
        Dr. Crucitti avoided giving a direct answer, but he acknowledged for the first time that the Pope was being treated for an ailment that he declined to discuss further. Since then, Vatican officials have confirmed that the Pope suffers from a form of Parkinson's.
        Born in Reggio Calabria on Nov. 17, 1930, Dr. Crucitti received degrees in medicine and surgery at the University of Bologna in 1952, and later specialized in surgery and urology at the University of Padua. He worked first at the University of Padua medical school, becoming a professor of surgical pathology there in 1963. In 1967, he became deputy director of the institute of clinical surgery at the Catholic University medical center, in Rome, where he remained, advancing to become professor of general surgery.
        Dr. Crucitti, an amiable and witty man, was known to have admonished John Paul frequently to lighten his workload and to find more time to rest, and the doctor occasionally suggested that his patient was less than cooperative.
        Addressing a news conference after the appendectomy in 1996, Dr. Crucitti said, ''We have told the Pope to rest.'' Asked whether he believed that Pope John Paul, who continued to follow a grueling schedule, would heed that advice, Dr. Crucitti replied, ''Ah, now that remains to be seen.''
      