
        Harold W. Ezell, who as a Federal immigration official supported amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants only to become a decade later the co-author of a state initiative denying them public benefits, died on Tuesday at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Newport Beach.
        The cause was liver cancer, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        After working as an executive for Wienerschnitzel International, a hot dog franchise company, Mr. Ezell was commissioner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service's western region under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush. He supported the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which granted legal residency to about three million illegal immigrants, more than half of them in California.
        In promoting that amnesty offer, Mr. Ezell donned a sombrero and appeared as part of a group called Trio Amnestia, with his deputy and an Hispanic radio personality called El Tigre. At the same time, he crusaded to stop illegal immigrants from entering the United States, organizing night tours to the Mexican border to show illegal immigrants coming into the country and conducting raids on factories and restaurants.
        In the early 1990's, after leaving the immigration agency, Mr. Ezell found a niche as a go-between for foreign millionaires seeking United States citizenship.
        ''I believe we've done a great job with boat people, and I think that a few yacht people are not going to hurt America,'' he told The New York Times in 1991.
        As California's economy remained in the doldrums into the mid-1990's and public sentiment against illegal immigration grew, Mr. Ezell helped write Proposition 187, which would have denied public benefits, including health care and education, to illegal immigrants. Though the measure was approved by Californians in 1994, a Federal judge in Los Angeles ruled it unconstitutional and it has not been enforced, but many of its provisions were embodied in the Federal welfare reform act.
        ''He believed people should be welcome in this country, but they should come in in a legal manner, and that illegal activity of any kind should not be rewarded,'' said State Senator Dick Mountjoy, a Republican from suburban Los Angeles who supported Proposition 187.
        But Mr. Ezell often raised the ire of immigrant and civil liberties advocates with comments that critics said made it impossible to have a dispassionate discussion of the issue.
        Mr. Ezell is survived by his wife, Lee; two daughters, Pamela Ezell of Los Angeles, and Sandi Bushnell of New Jersey; his mother, Edna of Wilmington, Calif., and his brother, Donald, of Wilmington.
      