
        Darrell Halloran, the basketball coach at Pace University, collapsed at halftime of a game against American International College at Pace's Civic Center Gymnasium in Lower Manhattan on Saturday afternoon and was pronounced dead shortly afterward at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 47.
        Halloran, who lived in Harrison, N.Y., suffered heart failure, the school said.
        Joseph O'Donnell, the Pace athletic director, said that Halloran was stricken while conferring with his assistant coaches near the locker room in preparation for the halftime talk with the players. He said that the trainer, Devon Taylor, tried to revive Halloran and that an ambulance arrived in less than 10 minutes.
        ''I had no idea it was catastrophic,'' O'Donnell said. ''We felt the best thing to do was continue the game.''
        Jim Harter, an assistant, coached the second half in a game that Pace lost, 75-74.
        O'Donnell said he informed the players of the coach's death after the game, and ''they were devastated.'' The school provided a counselor for the players Saturday night.
        ''They were very close to him,'' O'Donnell said. ''He was a father-confessor figure. He worked with the team on the court and off the court.''
        O'Donnell said that Halloran was hospitalized last year for treatment of high blood pressure, but that he was unaware of the coach's having previous heart problems.
        Halloran had coached since 1983 at Pace, a Division II school. He had the most victories of any coach in school history with a record of 231-180, and the best winning percentage, .562.
        Halloran joined Pace after coaching for one season at Our Lady of the Lake University in San Antonio.
        Born in Hudson, N.Y., he attended high school in Texas and was captain of the basketball and baseball teams at Rice University. He coached from 1974 to 1981 at Morris Catholic High School in Denville, N.J.
        Halloran's Pace teams won the Eastern College Athletic Conference Division II championship in 1990 and 1991. He coached the Setters to a share of the New York Collegiate Athletic Conference title in 1992 and took the team to the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II tournament, where it lost in the first round to California-Pennsylvania, the nation's No. 1-ranked team.
        Halloran's survivors include his wife, Eileen, and a son, Sean.
      