
        Dr. Frederick Reines, whose fine baritone might have landed him in opera instead of the career in neutrino physics that culminated in the 1995 Nobel Prize, died on Wednesday night at the University of California-Irvine Medical Center in Orange, Calif. Dr. Reines was 80 and lived on the university campus, where he was distinguished professor emeritus in physics.
        The university said he died after a long illness.
        Described by other scientists as the father of neutrino physics, Dr. Reines (pronounced RYE-ness) had a reputation as an intense researcher, often ahead of others in anticipating important physics problems and always relentless in solving them.
        This was how Dr. Reines and a colleague made the discovery that eventually earned him the Nobel accolade.
        In the early 1930's, physicists predicted the existence of neutrinos, virtually massless subatomic particles that move through space and matter with so few interactions that their existence was thought to be beyond detection. The theorists who predicted that such ghostlike particles probably originate in nuclear reactions in the Sun and in exploding stars despaired of ever discovering their traces.
        In 1951, while at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory in New Mexico, Dr. Reines decided to try the seemingly impossible: detect a neutrino. It was typical of him.
        ''He was always doing courageous things, expanding the limits of research,'' said Dr. Jonas Schultz, another physicist at the Irvine campus. ''He thought of ways to detect neutrinos, showed that it could be done and that was a psychologically important breakthrough in the whole field.''
        Working with Dr. Clyde Cowan, a Los Alamos colleague, Dr. Reines used a nuclear reactor to produce neutrinos and a tank of water as the agent of detection. The impacts of neutrinos coming from the reactor produced flashes of light in the water tanks, which the two scientists recorded and reported in 1956. Scientists were surprised that it took the Nobel Prize committee until 1995 to recognize the discovery.
        At the time, Dr. Myron Bander of Irvine said the neutrino discovery was ''a keystone to our understanding of elementary particle physics.''
        It was only last June that other scientists, using detectors in Japan, finally determined that the neutrino does have some mass and thus could contribute to the so-called dark matter that pervades and shapes the universe.
        Frederick Reines was born on March 16, 1918, in Paterson, N.J., to parents who were immigrants from Russia. As a boy in upstate New York and later in North Bergen, N.J., he enjoyed building things, earning merit badges to become an Eagle Scout and singing and acting.
        Even in college, at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., he took singing lessons from a voice coach at the Metropolitan Opera and had solo roles in Handel's ''Messiah.''
        But science won out, Dr. Reines said many years later, perhaps because of an idle moment one afternoon in school. He was looking out of the window at twilight through a hand curled to simulate a telescope.
        ''I noticed something peculiar about the light,'' he recalled. ''It was the phenomenon of diffraction. That began for me a fascination with light.''
        So he studied physics at Stevens and earned a doctorate at New York University. Early in his career, he was part of the Los Alamos team working on the atomic and hydrogen bombs. His first job was on the theoretical staff headed by Dr. Richard P. Feynman, another future Nobel laureate. Much of his research centered on the findings of bomb tests on Enewetak and Bikini atolls in the Pacific Ocean.
        Beginning in 1959, he headed the physics department at Case Institute of Technology (now Case Western University) in Cleveland for seven years. He said the ''peak of my musical endeavors'' occurred at this time, when he sang with the chorus of the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra. Otherwise he confined his music to some Gilbert and Sullivan performances and singing at parties.
        Colleagues also recalled that Dr. Reines sometimes locked himself in his office to work on particularly difficult physics problems. He could be heard singing opera for hours.
        In 1966, Dr. Reines became the founding dean of physical sciences at the new University of California campus at Irvine. He later returned to full-time teaching and research, heading a team of neutrino scientists. The team's subsequent research on neutrinos from supernova 1987A won the Bruno Rossi prize in high-energy physics from the American Astronomical Society.
        Dr. Reines married the former Sylvia Samuels in 1940, while he was in college. She survives, as well as their two children, Robert G., of Ojo Sarco, N.M., and Alisa K. Cowden of Trumansburg, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      