
        Francisco Salveron, a Philippine-born Army orderly whose devotion to Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur in World War II gave him a front-row role in MacArthur's historic return to the Philippines, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Bladensburg, Md. He was 88.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        More than a half-century after V-J Day, a few photographs still resonate as portrayals of embattled Americans: Eisenhower seeing the paratroopers off on the eve of D-Day, marines raising the American flag over Iwo Jima and MacArthur splashing ashore at Leyte Gulf in the Philippines on Oct. 20, 1944, fulfilling his pledge when he left Corregidor: ''I shall return.''
        Sergeant Salveron, who had left his family behind in Manila when he joined the United States Army in 1942 and became MacArthur's personal aide, was also returning. He had been with MacArthur daily for the previous two years, rising before dawn to prepare the general's breakfast and his uniforms, and now he was part of the seven-man group that went ashore at Red Beach on Leyte island.
        He, too, walked through the surf, standing alongside the general. At that instant, the sergeant even upstaged his country's leaders. Sergio Osmena, the President-in-exile of the Philippines, and Gen. Carlos P. Romulo, who would later serve as the nation's Foreign Minister, were a few strides behind him.
        MacArthur's return to the Philippines, 31 months after his retreat from the besieged isle of Corregidor, MacArthur's headquarters off Manila, heralded a turning point in the Pacific war. Some 200,000 American troops carried out an invasion of the central Philippines while American ships and planes dealt a major defeat to the Japanese Navy over the following week in the Battle of Leyte.
        Amid the grand strategy, the stakes were immensely personal for Sergeant Salveron, who had not heard from his family members all through the Japanese occupation. He would not see them again until January 1945, when they were reunited near Manila.
        ''I remember first going to where my house used to be,'' he told The Prince George's (Md.) Journal in 1980. ''I just stood there and stared with a tear in my eye, because my house was burned to ruins. At the same time, a person who looked as if he hadn't eaten in days, he was so skinny, came running to me. It was my brother-in-law.''
        He soon found his wife and children in what he remembered as ''the greatest moment in my life.''
        Sergeant Salveron met MacArthur in 1942 while the general was visiting a hospital in Brisbane, Australia, where Sergeant Salveron was recovering from a shoulder injury he had suffered when his medical-supply ship was sunk by the Japanese. Despite his injuries, Sergeant Salveron had managed to scramble ashore and rescue several men who had lost arms and legs, covering them with sand so that the scent of their blood would not attract crocodiles. Soon he would become MacArthur's aide.
        On the morning of the Leyte Gulf invasion, MacArthur donned a khaki uniform that Sergeant Salveron had laid out, planning to make a very dry and spiffy arrival on the beach. But when the barge carrying the MacArthur party was 50 yards from shore, it ran aground on a sand bar. One of MacArthur's aides telephoned the Navy beachmaster to request a small landing craft to take the party all the way in, but the beachmaster, who was overseeing the landings in his sector amid the whiz of sniper bullets, snarled into the phone, ''Let 'em walk.''
        And so they did. What might have been an unremarkable photo of an immaculate MacArthur on shore -- four hours after the first wave of assault troops had arrived -- became a memorable image of the general, in his familiar gold-braided hat and sunglasses, walking in water that reached his knees.
        Later that afternoon, MacArthur made his famous speech from the beach: ''People of the Philippines, I have returned.''
        Mr. Salveron took his family to the United States at war's end and left the Army. Six months later, he enlisted in the Air Force. He retired from the military in 1963 and formed a Douglas MacArthur post of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
        In 1977, the Government of the Philippines erected a memorial at Leyte depicting the arrival of Mac Arthur and his men. Once again Mr. Salveron was on the beach, this time cast in bronze. In 1994, on the 50th anniversary of the Battle of Leyte Gulf, the Philippines' Ambassador to the United States presented a liberation medal to Mr. Salveron in a ceremony at Norfolk, Va. For one old soldier who cherished another, the presentation was held at a perfect setting, the General Douglas MacArthur Memorial.
        In addition to his wife, Anastacia, Mr. Salveron is survived by three daughters, Norma Moore of Arlington, Va., Alice Bell of Fairfax Station, Va., and Eveline Overmiller of Prince Frederick, Md.; a son, Arthur, of Bowie, Md; nine grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      