
        Dr. Roger Williams, a physician who pioneered the use of genetic data to identify people at risk for cholesterol-related heart disease, was among the 229 people who died in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 on Wednesday. He was 54.
        Dr. Williams lived in Salt Lake City and conducted his research there, at the University of Utah School of Medicine. He was on his way to Geneva on Wednesday to lead an international meeting of scientists engaged in finding genetic diseases through genealogical research.
        Rodman D. Starke, the executive vice president of the American Heart Association, said that Dr. Williams had done much to shape the preventive approach to heart disease by ''finding ways to identify the people who are most likely to get in trouble before they actually do get into any trouble.''
        Dr. Williams's work in this field concentrated on genetic familial hypercholesterolemia, an inherited form of high cholesterol that contributes to heart attack and stroke among people under the age of 55.
        The genetic marker associated with this condition was identified in the late 1970's by Michael S. Brown and Joseph L. Goldstein, who in 1985 won the Nobel Prize in physiology for their work.
        Dr. Williams was quick to realize that, aside from advancing molecular biology, the discovery provided a powerful diagnostic tool. Moreover, he realized that Utah offered an ideal social environment for tracing the genetic predisposition for heart disease. Not only did Utah have large families, but because of the Mormons' collection of genealogical data, an abundance of family trees existed. Dr. Williams was able to seek out those who had the genetic time bomb ticking in their cells, and to analyze the ways that the risk was distributed within the population.
        In 1994, Dr. Williams observed that although scientists had succeeded in pinpointing the genetic factors that put many people at high risk, ''we're still having great difficulty in alerting both the public and the health care profession to the need for screening and treatment for people with a family history of early cardiovascular disease.''
        At his death, Dr. Williams was a professor of internal medicine at the University of Utah School of Medicine and the director of the university's Cardiovascular Genetics Research Clinic, which he founded. After graduating from Weber State University in Ogden, Utah, in 1971, he completed medical school at the University of Utah and served his residency at Duke University.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda, and seven children.
        THE CRASH OF FLIGHT 111
      