
        Dr. Robert J. Huebner, whose genius as a medical detective in pursuit of viruses and other agents of disease became a major force in the battle against cancer, died on Aug. 26 at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Coatesville, Pa. He was 84.
        Dr. Huebner, who had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for 16 years and had lived at the center since 1991, died of pneumonia, medical authorities said.
        Working with a colleague, Dr. Huebner correctly hypothesized that a gene he named the oncogene was implicated in the cause of cancer and focused science to look for and eventually find it. His discoveries and the oncogene theories he put forth in his years as chief of the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., led to the development of vaccines and treatments for a variety of widespread and deadly illnesses.
        Among his major accomplishments were the discovery of viruses  responsible for serious respiratory illnesses in children and the identification of the notorious cytomegaloviruses, which cause opportunistic infections in AIDS patients. Dr. Huebner (pronounced HYOOB-ner) is credited with galvanizing medical science in the late 1960's and 1970's into action on cancer and predicting, contrary to the medical wisdom of the day, that viruses would be linked to certain cancers in humans. He persuaded the old Department of Health, Education and Welfare, now Health and Human Services, to provide $60 million for cancer studies, and young scientists all over the country joined the crusade to conquer the disease.
        ''When I was growing up on the farm,'' he told a Life interviewer in 1965, ''I saw that land erosion was the result of little individual drops of rain, all adding up finally to a gully.  Human erosion isn't a simple thing; it's the result of the interplay of many factors, many raindrops, but I strongly suspect that among them are the virus agents.''
        Dr. Murray Gardner, a virologist at the University of California at Davis, said Dr. Huebner ''was just what we needed to get people moving, a visionary who foresaw the importance of viruses, in particular retroviruses.''
        Retroviruses, little sacs of genetic material, put out a kind of reverse code or defective blueprint causing cell overgrowth. Dr. Huebner put together a team of scientists to study them, Dr. Gardner said. ''And within 15 years it paid off,'' he said.
        By then the existence of the oncogene was confirmed by others and it was clear that vaccines could be developed to prevent tumors. As a result of such vaccines, including one for hepatitis B, rates of some viral cancers, like that of the liver, have been sharply reduced.
        Dr. Vincent T. DeVita, director of the Yale Cancer Center and former director of the National Cancer Institute, said, ''The guy was brilliant and unconventional -- he opened up the whole field of cancer viruses, looking at them in ways people had not looked at before.''
        Robert Joseph Huebner, the first of nine children of Joseph and Philomena Brickner Huebner, was born on Feb. 23, 1914, in Cheviot, Ohio. He began premedical studies at Xavier College in 1937, finished them at the University of Cincinnati and enrolled in 1938 in the St. Louis University School of Medicine.
        Lacking money, he was forced to violate a prohibition against outside jobs and was threatened with expulsion. The threat was not carried out,  and he was permitted to graduate in 1942, when he joined the United States Public Health Service and went to sea in World War II as a medical officer aboard a Coast Guard vessel in Alaska. He returned in 1944 to join the National Institutes of Health as a researcher, still with the Public Health Service.
        Shortly after V-J Day, he was the only Public Health Service officer on duty in his institute (senior officers were taking their first extended breaks in four years) when he received a call from New York City authorities puzzled by a disease among residents of crowded apartments in the Kew Gardens section of Queens. Victims had violent, body-racking fevers and skin lesions.
        The cause could not be determined, but the disease had already killed an 11-year-old boy. A local exterminator, Charles Pomerantz, led Dr. Huebner to an apartment where the wallpaper appeared to be moving before their eyes, set in motion by billions of mites crawling around inside the walls. That led to the discovery of the first known case of rickettsialpox, a variety of the diseases caused by rickettsia, which are tiny microorganisms that in this case were spread by those billions of mites. The mites, infected with the previously unknown variety of rickettsia, were inadvertently brought to the United States in the luggage of Russian immigrants.
        Once the findings were confirmed, Dr. Huebner called his new friend, the exterminator. ''Well, Charlie,'' Dr. Huebner said. ''We've made it! Bravo!''
        ''I was stricken dumb,'' Mr. Pomerantz told The New Yorker shortly afterward. ''That we included me.''
        On the strength of that work, Dr. Huebner was sent to California on a new case, the mystery of Q-fever, which normally strikes cows but had apparently spread to people. Dr. Huebner found the villains hiding out in vats of unpasteurized milk. Again they were members of the rickettsia family, rare pathogens smaller than bacteria and larger than viruses. Once the cause was found, the outbreak ended. But laying blame on dairy farmers angered them, and they pressured state health authorities, who politely invited Dr. Huebner to leave California.
        In 1953, Dr. Huebner was working with a health-service colleague, Dr. Wallace Rowe, to grow common cold viruses in cultures of human adenoid and tonsil tissue.
        They tried to inoculate the cultures with nasal secretions from people with colds, but before they could the cultures began to fall apart. They took what remained and injected it into a new, more stable culture, one made of human tumor cells. There they first detected a virus later called the adenovirus. Since then, 47 varieties of the virus have been discovered and linked to human diseases, including acute respiratory illnesses. They also found in the culture the human cytomegalovirus, since identified as a great hazard for organ transplant recipients and people with AIDS.
        ''There were great moments in virology,'' said Dr. Robert M. Chanock, Dr. Huebner's successor at the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, who added that the body of Dr. Huebner's work ''put him up there with Sabin.'' It was Albert B. Sabin who developed the oral polio vaccine in the 1950's.
        Dr. Huebner and Dr. Rowe concluded that the viruses could trigger dangerous cell overgrowth -- that they could conspire with a specific but ordinary gene to interact and produce cancer. In 1969, Dr. Huebner proposed his oncogene hypothesis in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. He later updated and refined the theory, stating that a specific and normal human gene may mutate and cause cancer.
        A gruff, warm hulk of a man, he and his wife Berdine and their nine children lived in Frederick, Md., on a 300-acre farm he had bought for $4,000. The farm had outdoor plumbing, but Dr. Huebner's Government salary as a laboratory director, he told colleagues, did not permit him to house his large family in affluent Washington suburbs like Bethesda.
        To supplement their income, he and the children began raising Aberdeen Angus cattle and breeding the stock, with each child raising a bull to help pay for college.
        The farm is currently run by three of his children.
        In 1968 Dr. Huebner left the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases to become chief of the Laboratory of Viral Carcinogenesis of the National Cancer Institute, where he remained until 1982, when he retired.
        He received the Presidential National Medal of Science, one of medicine's highest honors, and the Rockefeller Public Service Award, and he was a longtime member of the National Academy of Science.
        His marriage to Bernine, who died seven years ago, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, Harriet, of Rockville, whom he married in 1974; eight children, F. Kay Huebner of Philadelphia, Elizabeth J. Pfeiffer of Great Falls, Va., Geraldine A. Wyman of Santa Cruz, Calif., R. James Huebner of Sanford, Fla., and Virginia R. Huebner, R. Sue Creamer, Mary Louise Barnard and R. Daniel Huebner, all of Frederick; 11 grandchildren; 3 brothers, and 4 sisters.
      