
        Amory H. Bradford, a former vice president and general manager of The New York Times who was the chief negotiator for the Publishers Association in the bruising 114-day New York newspaper strike in 1962-63, died Friday at his home in Edisto Beach, S.C. He was 85.
        A Yale-educated Wall Street lawyer, Mr. Bradford joined The Times in 1947 as a special assistant to the publisher, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, and over the next 16 years became a company director, The Times's business and general manager and an important member of management.
        Long before satellites and computers, former associates recalled Friday, Mr. Bradford had visions of The Times as an economically strong newspaper of global influence, with editions in Paris for European consumption and on the West Coast for what was to be the start of a nationwide readership.
        Allying himself with Orvil E. Dryfoos, Mr. Sulzberger's son-in-law, who became publisher in 1961, Mr. Bradford engineered the company's purchase of the Gaspesia Pulp and Paper Company in Canada to insure newsprint supplies. He also saw cost-saving automation as the economic wave of the future, and he regarded unions, inefficiency and low productivity as roadblocks.
        By the early 1960's, he had become chairman of the New York City Publishers Association, made up of the city's eight major newspapers, and was president of the New York Regional Plan Association. He had also launched The Times's short-lived International edition, had formulated plans for its West Coast edition, and appeared to have positioned himself for The Times's presidency.
        But his personal and professional ambitions finally hit a rock.
        On Dec. 8, 1962, the printers' union launched what was to be the longest and costliest strike in New York newspaper history, a 114-day marathon. The Publishers Association chose Mr. Bradford as its point man in negotiations with Typographical Union No. 6 and its president, Bertram A. Powers.
        They were natural enemies from the start. Mr. Powers, a high school dropout, was a tough, relentless negotiator, the embodiment of a gut-fighter up from the streets. Mr. Bradford, an Ivy League aristocrat, impeccably dressed and 6 feet 4 inches tall, was accustomed to snapping orders at pliant subordinates.
        As the strike dragged on, it became clear to insiders that the clash of two personalities was prolonging the dispute; the publishers began to have doubts about Mr. Bradford.
        When the walkout ended on April 1, 1963, The Times published a two-page account by A. H. Raskin, its labor reporter. Only a few paragraphs were devoted to Mr. Bradford, but they were damaging. In his memoirs, ''My Life and The Times,'' Turner Catledge, for many years The Times's chief news executive, said Mr. Bradford had gone to him and to Mr. Dryfoos to try to get the article suppressed. ''He made it clear he did not want the story published, or least those portions about him,'' Mr. Catledge related. But the article was published.
        After calling Mr. Bradford ''handsome, articulate and aloof,'' Mr. Raskin wrote: ''One top-level mediator said Mr. Bradford brought an attitude of such icy disdain into the conference rooms that the mediator often felt he ought to ask the hotel to send up more heat. Another mediator, who called Mr. Bradford the possessor of the keenest mind on the management side, said he operates on a 'short fuse.' '' The publishers admired his ''independence and assurance,'' but ''they are occasionally galled by his imperiousness,'' Mr. Raskin added.
        Two months later, Mr. Dryfoos died, and Mr. Bradford's hopes for the presidency faded. On June 20, 1963, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger was named president and publisher of The Times, and Mr. Bradford issued a statement saying he was ''not in agreement with the proposed plan of reorganization,'' and resigned.
        Amory Howe Bradford was born in Springfield, Mass., on Oct. 1, 1912, the son of a Congregational minister, and grew up in Rutland, Vt., and Providence, R.I. He graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., in 1930, Yale in 1934 and Yale Law School in 1937. He practiced law with Davis, Polk Wardwell & Reed in New York for a decade, except for Army intelligence service in World War II.
        After leaving The Times in 1963, he was a consultant to the Ford Foundation for programs in Greece, Turkey, Switzerland and Italy, and, in 1964, he became an executive with Scripps-Howard Newspapers.
        In 1965, he was appointed by the Commerce Department to set up a $23 million program that created 3,000 jobs in Oakland, Calif., a city of hard-core unemployment. Drawing on the experience, he wrote a novel, ''Oakland's Not For Burning'' (David McKay, 1968).
        In 1970, Mr. Bradford headed a Nixon Administration study group that designed and recommended the new Federal Environmental Protection Agency substantially in the form that was accepted by the President and Congress. He later called it his most satisfying accomplishment.
        In later years, Mr. Bradford acknowledged having become a jobless alcoholic, and confided to friends that he once came close to suicide. But he began psychiatric treatment, quit drinking and radically changed his life style. He began studying massage and psychotherapy at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif.
        Harrison E. Salisbury, a Pulitzer Prize-winning foreign correspondent for The Times, wrote in a 1980 book about The Times, ''Without Fear or Favor,'' that Mr. Bradford had become ''a sort of guru,'' and said: ''The last time he attended a reunion in the Thousand Islands with his fellow Yale Skull and Crossbones members one remembered Amory lounging in the nude while they sat on the beach in their trunks. In fact, he went nude for most of the day.''
        From 1978 to 1982, Mr. Bradford lived in a van, traveling in the United States, Canada and Mexico, occasionally revisiting Esalen. He practiced gestalt therapy in Arlington, Vt., from 1982 to 1987. He and his wife, Laurene, also taught massage.
        In recent years, he had been writing his memoirs. In a statement he composed for his own obituary, he said that his ''final years were intensified by the practice of Siddha Yoga meditation, taught by Swami Muktananda, to whom he was introduced by his daughter Madhavi in 1976.''
        Besides his wife, Mr. Bradford is survived by three daughters, Carola Lea, of Lyme, N.H., Madhavi Bradford, of Carbondale, Colo., and Deborah Bradford, of Aspen, Colo.; two sons, Peter, of Peru, Vt., and David, of Brattleboro, Vt.; his first wife and the mother of his five children, Carol Noyes, of Syosset, N.Y.; a sister, Jean Page, of Concord, N.H.; a brother, J. Allyn Bradford, of Cambridge, Mass.; two stepdaughters, Rebecca Waggoner, of Walnut Creek, Calif., and Kate Dow, of Rutland, Vt., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 7, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Sunday of Amory Bradford, a former vice president and general manager of The New York Times, referred incorrectly to the secret society he joined at Yale. It was Skull and Bones, not Skull and Crossbones.
      