
        Charles T. Haskell, an environmentalist and adventurer who recreated perilous historic expeditions in South America and Africa with descendants of famous explorers, died on Aug. 18 at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C., near his family home. He was 55.
        The cause was cancer of the thymus, his family said.
        In 1992, Mr. Haskell led an expedition in Brazil, recreating a 1914 adventure by former President Theodore Roosevelt. The modern journey was to help educate Brazilians and Americans about the importance of the environment and how many issues had not changed since the 1914 exploration, Mr. Haskell said then.
        Mr. Haskell and his group of 20 Americans and Brazilians spent more than four weeks winding their way down a 930-mile tributary of the Amazon that once was called the River of Doubt. The party, which included Tweed Roosevelt, a great-grandson of the 26th President, braved similar perils and discomforts that had been experienced 78 years before.
        The group found many spots chronicled by the former President in his book, ''Through the Brazilian Wilderness,'' and followed an extremely accurate map drawn by his partner, Candido Rondon, Brazil's premier Amazon explorer. After the 1914 expedition, one of the first to chart the headwaters of the Amazon, the river was renamed Rio Roosevelt, which flows from tributaries in a state now called Rondonia.
        ''If Theodore Roosevelt had been with us, he wouldn't have been surprised by most of what we saw,'' Mr. Haskell said after the expedition. During his trip, Roosevelt nearly died from malaria and a leg infection.
        Roosevelt's book inspired Mr. Haskell and the expedition's co-leader, Elizabeth McKnight, who later became his wife, to plan the trip.
        In 1993, Mr. Haskell and his wife organized a second major expedition, one that took them through Africa retracing Dr. David Livingstone's last journey in 1872-73. Accompanied by Livingstone's great-grandson, David Livingstone Wilson, the team went from Zanzibar, in eastern Africa, to Burundi and into Zambia. The expedition, comparing observations from Livingstone's writings, documented significant environmental changes that had occurred over more than a century.
        After the expeditions, Mr. Haskell lectured widely on environmental issues, the need for conservation and the importance of studying history.
        Charles T. Haskell was born in Martinsville, Va., the son of Antoinette M. and Robert H. Haskell Jr., and attended the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. After leaving college, he worked for about 20 years at The Mount Sterling Advocate, in Kentucky, one of several newspapers owned by his family. He was editor and publisher of the paper when he retired in 1989. In recent years, he and his wife lived in Harpswell, Me.
        Mr. Haskell was also involved in Mount Sterling politics, serving as a city councilman and, briefly, as mayor.
        He was closely affiliated with the National Wildlife Federation, which co-sponsored the 1992 Brazilian expedition, and served on the federation's board of directors from 1985 to 1991. He served on the federation's endowment board from 1987 through 1994 and was chairman for three years. He also was a member of the Explorers Club in New York and a member of the board of Gallaudet University in Washington.
        ''He was a big, burly man who loved expeditions and adventure, but he wanted to use his experiences to teach people about the natural world,'' said Mark Van Putten, president of the wildlife federation. ''His enthusiasm was infectious, and that's what made him so effective.''
        At a memorial service for Mr. Haskell in Martinsville on Aug. 21, the federation honored him with the Virginia Ball Founders Award, one of its highest honors. In 1992, he received the Theodore Roosevelt Association's distinguished service award.
        Besides his mother and wife, Mr. Haskell is survived by a son and three daughters from previous marriages: Charles T. Jr., of Annapolis, Md.; Jennifer and Erin, both of Denver, and Kari, of New York City. He is also survived by a brother, Robert H. Haskell 3d of Martinsville.
      