
        Romeo Salta, one of the first Manhattan restaurateurs to introduce fine Italian cuisine, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 93.
        Mr. Salta's namesake restaurant, Romeo Salta, on West 56th Street, opened in 1953 and was one of the first in Manhattan to offer elegant  Northern Italian cooking, although Mr. Salta was equally proud of the many Southern Italian dishes on his menu. Pasta was prepared at the table and served fresh and hot, and dishes such as gnocchi, scampi and risotto were introduced, accompanied by fine Italian wines.
        The northern origin of much of the food aside, patrons were greeted in an expansive Southern Italian manner and the decor was elaborate. At the time that Mr. Salta operated the restaurant, there were only two establishments favored by serious Italian food lovers, Romeo Salta and San Marino, and each had its loyal devotees.
        ''New York has never had an Italian restaurant as good as Romeo Salta was in its heyday,'' Mimi Sheraton, a former restaurant critic for The New York Times, said upon hearing about Mr. Salta's death.
        Mr. Salta was born Romeo Saltalamacchia in Taranto, Italy, on Sept. 27, 1904, and raised in a state-run institution in Florence after his father's death in an Italian Navy submarine in 1910. As soon as he was able, he, too, joined the submarine service. After his discharge, he became a cabin steward and kitchen boy on several Italian liners, where he learned to cook.
        He entered the United States as a penniless and illegal immigrant in 1929, jumping ship in New York. A business card given to him by a passenger, whom he had cared for during a bout of sea sickness, was his passport into the restaurant world. The passenger, who ran the Central Park Casino, hired him as a waiter, and Mr. Salta eventually moved on to work in various capacities at the Pierre Hotel, the Waldorf Astoria and the St. Moritz.
        He later took several jobs in the Midwest, before settling in Los Angeles in 1933. There he was employed in nightclubs, including the Coconut Grove and the Trocadero.
        Within five years, he and a partner transformed a rundown drugstore and soda shop into a restaurant they named Chianti. After a slow start, a visit by Ed Sullivan and a subsequent mention in his newspaper column, ''Little Old New York,'' the restaurant blossomed and soon boasted such regular patrons as Bing Crosby, Errol Flynn and Lucille Ball.
        Mr. Salta returned to New York in the early 1950's, and in 1951, with a partner, he opened Mercurio in midtown Manhattan. It was one of the most popular hangouts for the top models of the day, including the young Grace Kelly. He and his partner eventually dissolved their business arrangement, and Mr. Salta opened Romeo Salta on West 56th  Street, where it was particularly favored by theater and music personalities and executives in the cosmetics industry.
        Mr. Salta was the author of ''The Pleasure of Italian Cooking,'' published by Macmillan in 1962. He also  developed a line of frozen foods that was sold under his name for a short time.
        After Mr. Salta gave up the daily operation of the business in 1976, Romeo Salta was taken over by his son, Salvatore, and Mr. Salta's second wife, Rosita. The restaurant closed in 1994.
        Mr. Salta was divorced from his first wife in the 1940's and married Rosita, in 1949. They were divorced in 1970. He married his third wife, Antoinette, in 1978. His second and third wives survive him, as do the three sons of his second marriage, Salvatore of Queens, Romeo Jr. of Manhattan and Remo of Ridgewood, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      