
        Kirk O'Donnell, a lawyer and lobbyist for a leading Washington law firm and the former chief aide to former Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., died on Saturday near his weekend home in Scituate, Mass. He was 52 and lived in Washington.
        A family friend, Robert E. Holland, said that Mr. O'Donnell, who did not have a history of health problems, collapsed after jogging. Mr. O'Donnell was pronounced dead at South Shore Hospital.
        The White House issued a statement tonight in which President Clinton said: ''Kirk O'Donnell was a gentleman and a patriot who brought wit, common sense and a genuine humanity to his public and private life. He was a very good man and has left us much too soon.''
        Mr. Holland, a boyhood friend of Mr. O'Donnell's and for a time his law partner in Boston, said that in his role as chief counsel to Mr. O'Neill, Mr. O'Donnell always acted behind the scenes in the Speaker's behalf, except on one issue, the running of guns to elements of the Irish Republican Army.
        At the time, Irish-Americans were divided on the question of providing guns and many politicians supported groups that were shipping the weapons. The group that Mr. O'Donnell helped form to oppose the weapon shipments included Democrats like Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Mr. O'Neill and Hugh L. Carey, then the Governor of New York.
        Mr. O'Donnell was born in Boston and graduated from the Boston Latin School, Brown University and Suffolk Law School. He taught history at Somerset (Mass.) High School and then took a job with Mayor Kevin H. White of Boston and ran Mr. White's successful re-election campaign.
        After leaving the Speaker's office, Mr. O'Donnell was president of the Center for National Policy, a Democratic advisory group, and he was a leader in the unsuccessful Democratic Presidential campaign of Michael S. Dukakis in 1988. He was a senior partner in the Washington law firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld.
        Mr. O'Donnell is survived by his wife of 26 years, Kathryn; his daughter, Holly, and his son, Brendan, all of Washington.
      