
        Georges Meyer, chairman and chief executive of Galeries Lafayette S.A., one of Europe's largest department store chains, died Tuesday afternoon at his home in Paris. He was 67.
        The cause of death was myeloma, a form of leukemia, his wife, Noelle, said.
        In a 34-year career with Galeries Lafayette, Mr. Meyer's most visible initiative to many Americans was his opening of the company's first American store in midtown Manhattan in 1991. But that store closed after only three years.
        In France, Mr. Meyer helped build Galeries Lafayette into the nation's largest retailer, with close to 600 stores. While the company also has stores in a handful of cities outside France, including Berlin, Beijing and Tel Aviv, the heart of the company remains its flagship store on Boulevard Haussmann in Paris.
        The store, near the Paris Opera, has become a shopping haven for tourists and locals alike with the slogan ''La mode est la'' -- roughly translated as ''Where the fashion is.''
        With nearly 30,000 employees, the company generated sales last year of 30.4 billion francs, or $5.1 billion.
        Mr. Meyer joined the 102-year-old company in 1964 after marrying into the family that controlled it. Noelle Meyer's grandfather, Theothile Bader, founded Galeries Lafayette in 1896 as a boutique selling such novelties as feathers, ribbons and decorative sewing products.
        Mr. Meyer became a vice president of the company in 1970 and assumed the chairman's job in the late 1980's, although Mrs. Meyer said her husband was functionally running the company by the early 1970's.
        Born in Roanne, France, in 1930, Mr. Meyer began his career in the textile industry in northern France and joined a textile company in Medellin, Colombia, in 1957. He met his wife-to-be while on a home visit to France.
        Yesterday, the family shareholders who control Galeries Lafayette asked the company's two vice chairmen, Philippe Houze and Philippe Lemoine, to fulfill Mr. Meyer's duties jointly until management options could be considered at the company's next board meeting.
        After taking the reins at Galeries Lafayette, Mr. Meyer directed the company on an aggressive path of expansion. In the early 1990's, Galeries Lafayette acquired Nouvelles Galeries Reunies, another French retail group, and assumed full control of an older affiliate, the Monoprix chain of discount stores.
        But perhaps Mr. Meyer's most ambitious plan was to build a successful shop in the middle of Manhattan's intensely competitive shopping district.
        The new Galeries Lafayette store opened in September 1991, with a celebrity-spangled party at the 80,000-square-foot store in the base of Trump Tower, on 57th Street between Fifth Avenue and Madison Avenue.
        But the New York operation lost $20 million in each of its first two years, and in 1994 Mr. Meyer closed the store, ending his company's presence in the United States.
        ''He was always in love with America,'' Mrs. Meyer said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. ''But that period was not the best for us because we had to manage expansion inside France, and we could not really take good care of the New York department store. He thought maybe we were not French enough there.''
        Mr. Meyer, a commander of France's Legion of Honor, is survived by his wife; a brother, Max, of Paris; a sister, Janyne, of the Vaucluse region in southern France; three sons, Alexandre, of Marseilles, David, of Brussels, and Raphael, of Paris, and one grandchild.
      