
        Walter Adams, an antitrust expert whose concerns about concentrations of corporate power helped shape Government policy for three decades, died Tuesday at his home in East Lansing, Mich., according to a statement from Michigan State University, where he taught for 46 years. He was 78 years old.
        His son, William James Adams of Ann Arbor, Mich., said the cause was pancreatic cancer. Professor Adams learned in May that he had the disease.
        Professor Adams taught economics at Michigan State from 1947 to 1993 and served as president of the university for nine months in 1969, a time when antiwar and civil rights protests rocked the campus. He addressed those issues with such candor and good humor that more than 20,000 students and 950 faculty members signed a petition asking him to stay on as president. But he said he wanted to teach, not be an administrator.
        John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard University economist, praised Professor Adams as a ''wonderful teacher'' who was ''a good New Deal liberal.''
        He served on a Federal committee that Attorney General Herbert Brownell formed in 1953 to study antitrust laws, and he spent many summers in Washington volunteering his expertise to Congressional committees in an era when they had little or no staff.
        He wrote or co-wrote 14 books warning of the dangers of concentrated economic power, including ''The Bigness Complex'' in 1987 and ''Dangerous Pursuits: Mergers & Acquisitions in the Age of Wall Street'' in 1989, both with Prof. James W. Brock of Miami University of Ohio.
        ''He raised enduring questions of power and control in economics and in the closely related political arena as well,'' Professor Brock said. ''He kept alive a concern about excessive concentration of power and its dangers to a free society because it undermines good economic performance, retards innovation and tends to spread into the political sphere in lobbying aimed at creating anti-competitive public policies. He taught that we can't rest easy in the delusion that the unfettered free market will take care of everything.''
        Professor Adams was sharply critical of the Reagan Administration for allowing big corporate mergers. In 1988 he wrote that ''the antitrust laws have been subjected to a systematic policy of euthanasia.''
        But William F. Baxter, a Stanford University law professor who was the Reagan Administration's antitrust chief for three years, said concern about industries in which a handful of companies can set ''administered prices'' and operate insulated from supply and demand ''has gone from the predominant point of view to an idiosyncratic point of view.''
        Robert H. Bork, the failed Supreme Court nominee who is an antitrust expert and several times jousted with Professor Adams, said that ''he saw concentration of industries everywhere and tended to think that industries I would think were perfectly competitively structured were not competitively structured.''
        Walter Adams was born in 1922 in Vienna. His family moved to Brooklyn in 1935. He graduated magna cum laude from Brooklyn College in 1942 with an economics degree and also studied at the University of Chicago. He earned his doctorate at Yale University in 1947.
        In World War II he served in the 83d Infantry Division, fighting in the Battle of the Bulge, and in the 11th Armored Division. He received a battlefield commission as a lieutenant and the Bronze Star. He often described his war experiences as ''the Tour de France sans bicyclette.''
        Professor Adams's playful side showed in an otherwise dry report in 1963 for the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly subcommittee on oligopolies.
        Robert F. Lanzillotti, who was then the economics chairman at Michigan State and co-author of the report, said, ''We wanted to deal with those economists who saw no merit in the theory of administered prices and who frequently supported their position by citing research that their graduate students were doing but that was not complete or published.''
        Professor Adams added a footnote on a study of the relationship of prices and profits by Hubertus von und Swickenstein and Boris Przmysy-Watson. Though the names were fictitious and the ruse had been reported, other researchers asked him how to get in touch with the pair.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Pauline, and two grandsons.
        His last book, ''The Tobacco Wars,'' written with Professor Brock, was published last week by South-Western College Publishing of Cincinnati. It was their third book to use the form of a play to teach economics.
        Two weeks ago, after word of Professor Adams's illness became known around the Michigan State campus, more than 200 musicians in the college marching band, which he had supported for a half-century, came to his home to play the university fight song and alma mater for him.
      