
        Richard Maass, a self-employed investments manager whose concern for the deprived and the victims of discrimination led him to become the founding chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry and president of the American Jewish Committee, died at his home in Purchase, N.Y., on Thursday. He was 79 years old.
        The cause was cancer, said his son R. Andrew Maass.
        As the first chief executive of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, he helped lead the group's international campaign during the cold war of the 1970's, pressuring the Soviet Union's Communist leaders to ease barriers to emigration by Jews.
        ''He played a major role in the campaign, whose slogan was 'Let Them Live or Let Them Leave,' '' said Jerry Goodman, a colleague at the American Jewish Committee, who became the founding executive director of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry and is now the executive director of the National Committee for Labor Israel.
        ''What he provided was equanimity and balance at a time when there were so many differences within the organization, and he was able to reconcile them all,'' Mr. Goodman said. ''We had to go through a lot of contentious issues, including the passage of the Jackson-Vanik amendment that linked trade benefits to free emigration.''
        From 1968 to 1971, the year the conference was organized, the total emigration of Jews from the Soviet Union was 17,000, Mr. Goodman said. In 1972, it jumped to 32,000, and for the rest of the 1970's and 1980's, the number fluctuated depending on political factors. It reached a peak of 213,000 in 1990, the result of public demonstrations by groups like the conference and government pressure.
        Closer to home, Mr. Maass also served as president of the Westchester Urban League from 1953 to 1958 and as chairman of the Purchase College Council, the college's board of trustees, from 1992 until his death.
        He was the founder, president and a teacher in an alternative school for troubled youths called Edu-Cage in the late 1960's and 1970's. It operated out of a burned-out bowling alley in downtown White Plains and educated students from 35 school districts, granting diplomas to the graduates from their home schools. Mr. Maass, who took several of the students into his own home, taught there every morning for 13 years as a volunteer. ''He was not a lawyer, but he taught them street law, teaching them what their rights were,'' said his wife, Dolly Lederer Maass.
        None of the school's teachers were certified, she recalled, and the students were allowed to smoke and to put their feet on their desks. ''The school operated with only three rules: no drugs, no fighting and mandatory attendance,'' she said. The school no longer exists.
        In his personal life, as reflected by the license plate on his car, ''Amhist,'' he was an avid collector of colonial and Revolutionary War-era historical items in Westchester County, and he donated some of them to the Elmer Holmes Bobst Library at New York University and the University of Virginia.
        In 1996, Mr. Maass donated notes for a speech on emancipation written by Abraham Lincoln to Purchase College. It fetched $500,000 at auction.
        A native of Baltimore, he graduated from the New York University School of Commerce in 1949.
        In addition to his wife of 55 years and his son R. Andrew, of Jackson, Miss., he is survived by another son, Douglas O. Maass of Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.; a brother, Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston; four grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      