
        Bob Dixon, a longtime broadcast announcer who had an unlikely star turn as a Connecticut-bred television cowboy and an even less likely run as Edward R. Murrow's best friend, died on Aug. 22 at a nursing home in Bethel, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Gaylordsville.
        To the children who tuned into CBS from 1949 to 1951 to watch the shoot-'em-up movie westerns that were the late afternoon rage of the early television day, Sheriff Bob Dixon, as the show's host styled himself, was cowboy personified: a tall, rangy man in authentic Western gear and with a resonant twang that fairly shouted Wyoming as he introduced the movies and schooled his young audiences on the nuances of saddles, bridles and shooting irons.
        So what if he had been born in Stamford, Conn., grown up in New Canaan, appeared in summer stock as a teen-ager, attended the Virginia Military Institute, graduated from Springfield College and spent two decades as a radio announcer in Massachusetts and New York City?
        One of his grandfathers, as Mr. Dixon liked to point out, had raised horses in Pound Ridge, N.Y., and driven a stagecoach between there and the Stamford train station.
        Whatever his cowboy credentials, as the host of ''The Chuck Wagon,'' on WCBS-TV in New York and later ''The Chuck Wagon Playhouse'' on the CBS network, Mr. Dixon became almost as famous as Roy Rogers, Gene Autry and Hopalong Cassidy.
        Initially hired to introduce the movies, Mr. Dixon warmed to his role and soon expanded it, introducing show-and-tell segments in which he would display and discuss saddles, harnesses and other cowboy gear.
        As he later recalled, the segments, which included guest appearances by celebrities, were introduced as time-stretchers after complaints from parents' groups concerned about the movies' gratuitous violence led program executives to trim the films.
        The educational segments, as he took pains not to call them, became so popular, Mr. Dixon later recalled, that ''the movies got shorter and shorter and I got longer and longer.''
        For all the appeal of his demonstrations, it was a series showing the correct use of guns that led Mr. Dixon to earn a footnote to broadcast history by persuading a bird-hunting buddy to come on his show and discuss shotgun safety.
        The buddy was Edward R. Murrow, and, as Mr. Dixon never tired of recalling, the decidedly nervous demonstration by the broadcasting giant was Mr. Murrow's very first appearance on television.
        The two men, who shared an interest in guns, horses, the outdoor life and little else, had formed an unlikely friendship in 1947 when Mr. Dixon got an assignment to do a commercial right after Mr. Murrow's daily radio news program.
        As recounted by Mr. Murrow's biographers, Joseph P. Persico and Alexander Kendrick, Mr. Dixon began coming to the studio early to listen to the broadcast, and Mr. Murrow began playing to his new admirer.
        Then one day in a gesture Mr. Dixon later likened to a 10-year-old pulling the pigtail of the girl he liked, the notoriously shy Mr. Murrow told Mr. Dixon that his commercial delivery had not been bad ''for a guy with a speech impediment,'' and Mr. Dixon promptly returned the kidding insult.
        Soon, much to the amazement of his coterie of awed acolytes, Mr. Murrow started asking Mr. Dixon into his office for a post-broadcast Scotch and a full-fledged friendship was born, one that seemed based on the fact that unlike almost everyone else Mr. Murrow knew Mr. Dixon had absolutely no intellectual pretensions.
        Within a year, Mr. Dixon had become Mr. Murrow's announcer and later worked on ''See It Now,'' and other Murrow television programs before going on to a career that included a stint as host of the CBS radio weekend ''Dimension'' series, acting appearances on more than dozen prime-time programs and wide-ranging work as an announcer and commercial spokesman.
        He may have been an unlikely television cowboy, but as Mr. Murrow sensed, he was authentic, which is why as he lay dying from brain cancer in New York Hospital in 1965 and determined to die at his Connecticut home, it was Mr. Dixon that Mr. Murrow summoned to his bedside and asked to get him out of the hospital even if he had to carry him out on his back.
        A more orderly exit was swiftly arranged, and Mr. Dixon helped nurse Mr. Murrow through the final days of his illness.
        Mr. Dixon, who was married three times, is survived by two sons, Roy, of Cobb, Calif., and Bruce, of Napierville, Ill.; two daughters, Roberta Tyson of Cornwall, Conn., and Kristen Dixon of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a sister, Helen Rustoe of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      