
        Dr. Clifford Grobstein, a scientist, university administrator and leading framer of the ethical questions raised by advances in developmental biology, died on Sept. 6 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 82 years old and lived in Rancho Santa Fe.
        The cause was pneumonia, according to the University of California at San Diego, where Dr. Grobstein was a professor emeritus of biological science and public policy. He had served as professor and administrator since 1965.
        As a researcher, Dr. Grobstein made important contributions to the study of cancer and of developmental biology -- the study of how a simple one-celled egg gives rise to the extraordinarily complex organisms of humans and animals. But he was also widely respected by fellow scientists for his ability to analyze the human implications of medical research and technology.
        In the book ''From Chance to Purpose -- An Appraisal of External Human Fertilization'' (Addison-Wesley, 1981), Dr. Grobstein considered the impact of research that had recently resulted in the births of the first children conceived through in vitro fertilization.
        In a chapter discussing what defines a person and when life begins, Dr. Grobstein also suggested that cloning might ultimately overshadow other techniques for producing new life.
        He wrote several other books, including ''The Strategy of Life,'' ''The Double Image of the Double Helix'' and ''Science and the Unborn.''
        He became chairman of the biology department at the University of California at San Diego in 1965, after leaving Stanford University, where he had been a professor and the head of the biology department. A year later, he became dean of the newly formed school of medicine at San Diego, which under his leadership became a highly regarded teaching and research institution.
        Dr. Grobstein was born in New York City and received a bachelor's degree in biology from the City College of New York in 1936. He received his master's degree and doctorate in zoology from the University of California at Los Angeles, and worked for 10 years for the National Cancer Institute of the United States Public Health Service. He was elected to the National Academy of Science in 1966.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth, a radiation oncologist; a son; a daughter; three stepdaughters and 10 grandchildren.
      