
        John Holliman, a CNN correspondent who distinguished himself by being one of only three journalists to broadcast live coverage of the 1991 bombing of Baghdad, died yesterday morning. He was 49.
        Mr. Holliman suffered internal injuries from a head-on car collision with a pickup truck. The accident occurred near his home in Snellville, Ga., as he tried to pass another car in a no-passing lane, striking the oncoming truck, according to CNN and The Associated Press.
        ''He was the quintessential journeyman reporter, always enthusiastic and ready to cover anything,'' said the CNN correspondent Peter Arnett, who along with Mr. Holliman and Bernard Shaw, now a CNN anchor, were the only three journalists to report live from Baghdad on the air raids on Iraq's capital city during the Persian Gulf war. Without Mr. Holliman's ''extensive knowledge of communications,'' Mr. Arnett said, CNN's historic broadcasts would never have been possible.
        ''When the bombing started at 2:30 A.M., our communications went down just like everyone else's; we presumed we had been bombed out of existence,'' Mr. Arnett said in a telephone interview from his home in Virginia. ''But John fiddled with the equipment and ultimately replaced the battery so that we could go on to report 17 hours of history.''
        A native of Thomaston, Ga., Mr. Holliman graduated from the University of Georgia, where he received a bachelor's degree in journalism. In 1980, he joined CNN's original reporting team and was the network's first Washington correspondent. He also covered the student uprisings in Tiananmen Square in Beijing. From 1974 to 1980 Mr. Holliman wrote and filed radio dispatches for  The Associated Press.
        ''John Holliman was one of a kind,  a CNN orginal,'' said Tom Johnson, CNN's News Group chairman. ''As one of the boys of Baghdad, he showed great courage reporting as allied bombs fell all around him.''
        Mr. Holliman received several honors for his work, including the National Headliner Award, the George Peabody Award and a Golden Microphone. This fall, he was scheduled to be co-anchor for CNN's coverage of Senator John Glenn's return to space. Mr. Holliman had dreamed of becoming the first reporter in space. ''I expect he'll be up there watching the mission from the heavens, probably shouting, 'Holy cow, what a sight!' '' Mr. Johnson said.
        Mr. Holliman is survived by his wife, Diane; his son, John Emmett; his mother, Arva Tolbert Holliman of Thomaston, Ga., and a brother, Max Tolbert Holliman of Atlanta.
      