
        Dr. Irving E. Segal, an influential mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who embraced many unpopular notions, including the view that there was no Big Bang at the dawn of the universe, died on Aug. 30 after he collapsed while walking near his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 79.
        The cause was cardiovascular disease, the university said.
        Dr. Segal parted company with almost all mainstream cosmologists in his belief that the universe is not expanding and that the astronomical phenomenon of ''red shift'' can be fully explained by his own novel interpretation of principles of mathematical symmetry.
        The Big Bang theory rests on observations that astronomers call the red shift of stars. The light from a star moving away is seen at a lower frequency, or more red. The red shift is often compared to the Doppler effect in sound waves: the whistle of a train is at a higher pitch when it is approaching and shifts to a lower pitch when it moves away.
        Astronomers interpret the red shift as evidence of an expanding universe. But Dr. Segal believed that the red shift could be better explained by logic and theory.
        ''He believed there was a hidden symmetry in the universe,'' said Dr. Walter A. Strauss, professor of mathematics at Brown University, who studied with Dr. Segal at M.I.T. ''These symmetries are mostly invisible to the eye. But he believed you can see the consequences of it.''
        Dr. Segal drew on his distinctive interpretation of the area of mathematics called group theory -- and in particular one approach known as the conformal group -- to fashion his argument against the Big Bang. And there are those who allow that he may win the argument one day.
        ''The possibility exists, although I would not bet my life on it, that he may be right,'' said Dr. Bertram Kostant, a former colleague at M.I.T.
        In Dr. Segal's research on mathematics, Dr. Kostant said, ''Irving often found the tips of icebergs that others would develop.''
        Earlier in Dr. Segal's career, his work in quantum theory developed a set of axioms that concisely expressed the theories of the physicists Werner Heisenberg and Erwin Schrodinger and the mathematician John von Neumann, Dr. Strauss said. Dr. Segal worked briefly at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., with von Neumann and a group of rising young stars in mathematics who left their marks in a broad range of fields.
        Dr. Segal's initial impact was on functional analysis, a kind of calculus involving algebra and sometimes geometry and on nonlinear waves, which do not have the traits of linearity found in light and sound.
        Irving Ezra Segal was born in the Bronx, attended schools in Trenton and received a bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1937 and a doctorate from Yale in 1940, both in mathematics. He then joined the Army and conducted ballistic research at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland.
        He worked at the Institute for Advanced Study from 1945 to 1948, when he moved to the University of Chicago. In 1960, he joined M.I.T., retiring in 1989.
        He won three Guggenheim Fellowships, in 1947, 1951 and 1967, and received the prestigious Humboldt Award for research scientists in 1981. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1973.
        His marriage to Osa MacLane ended in divorce.
        Survivors include his wife, Martha; a daughter, Miriam, of Lexington, Mass., and three children from his earlier marriage, William, of Bethesda, Md.; Andrew, of Espanola, N.M., and Karen, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      