
        Vu Van Mau, who was briefly South Vietnam's Prime Minister -- and who called for all Americans to leave Saigon just before it fell to the Communist forces in 1975 -- died on Aug. 20 in a hospital in Paris. He was 84.
        He emigrated from Vietnam to France in 1988, Le Monde said in reporting his death on Saturday. He died of natural causes, said his son Dung Vu Hoang, according to The Associated Press.
        Vu Van Mau was a Buddhist politician who was an advocate of nonviolence, and president of Forces for Reconciliation, a South Vietnamese pacifist party. He was named Prime Minister by Gen. Duong Van Minh, a South Vietnamese proponent of peace, neutrality and cooperation with the Vietnamese Communists, in the last days before the Communists achieved victory in the Vietnam War.
        General Minh became President after a Vietcong broadcast on April 24 strongly implied that only he was acceptable to them at the head of the Saigon Government.
        At the time of the broadcast, while  North Vietnam and the Vietcong had not declared that they would attack Saigon if their demands were not met, there was no doubt among Saigon's residents that the Communists were likely to attack soon -- and military and political leaders expected that the outcome would be shattering. The Vietcong had been calling for the departure of the incumbent South Vietnamese President, Tran Van Huong, along with political associates of his and all ''American troops and military advisers disguised as civilians.''
        In the days after the Vietcong broadcast, the departure of Americans and some South Vietnamese progressed, President Ford ordered the emergency evacuation of all Americans from South Vietnam,  Communist attacks continued around Saigon and a rocket barrage hit the city's airport.
        On April 29, General Minh, meeting with an American officer, insisted only on the prompt withdrawal of the staff of the United States Defense Attache's office, Frank Snepp, a former C.I.A. official in Vietnam, wrote in his book ''Decent Interval: An Insider's Account of Saigon's Indecent End'' (1977).
        But not more than an hour later,  Mr. Snepp wrote, Saigon Radio broadcast ''an appeal from the new Prime Minister, Vu Van Mau, calling on all Americans to leave Saigon at once.'' Mr. Snepp wrote that by means of that broadcast, it seemed, President Minh ''was angling for maximum political advantage with the Communists by closing the door on us all.''
        Late in the day of April 29, the United States put an end to decades of military involvement in Vietnam by evacuating about 1,000 Americans and more than 5,000 South Vietnamese from Saigon. On the following day, North Vietnamese troops marched into the capital.
        North Vietnamese troops were seen leading Mr. Vu Van Mau away on May 3, 1975, but on May 4 Saigon Radio said that he had been released. In 1976, North and South Vietnam were united.
        Mr. Vu Van Mau was born and raised in Hanoi, earned a doctorate in law from the University of Paris, practiced law in Hanoi and moved to Saigon in 1954, after Vietnam's partition, along with his wife -- who died in 1969 -- a daughter and four sons. He went on to become dean of the University of Saigon's faculty of law and later Foreign Minister and then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs under South Vietnam's President, Ngo Dinh Diem, from 1955 to 1963.
        In 1963, after South Vietnamese forces attacked Buddhist clergy, Mr. Vu Van Mau resigned his Government post and ''shaved his head like a Buddhist monk as a gesture of protest,'' Stanley Karnow wrote in his book ''Vietnam: a History''(1983, Penguin). At that time, Mr. Karnow said in an interview, ''He was a gentle sort of guy.''
        In the mid 1960's he was South Vietnam's Ambassador to Britain, Belgium and the Netherlands. He was a senator from 1970 to 1975.
        He is survived by 5 children and 15 grandchildren.
      