
        Ralph G. Caso, who during his eight years as Nassau County Executive in the 1970's led efforts to build housing for the elderly, construct the Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum and expand the county park system, died on Monday. He was 80.
        Mr. Caso, who had a history of heart problems, died of pneumonia at South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, a family spokesman said.
        Although Mr. Caso, a Republican, had many battles with Nassau Republican Party leaders, he managed to pursue an aggressive agenda during his two terms as County Executive, from 1971 to 1978.
        ''He had visions and was able to translate them into brick and mortar,'' said Joseph M. Mondello, leader of the Nassau County Republican Committee. ''He put the Coliseum where it is, brought the Islanders and Nets here and left a tremendous mark on Nassau.''
        A graduate of New York University Law school and a veteran of World War II, Mr. Caso practiced law in Merrick before beginning his political career in the town of Hempstead, where he was Supervisor from 1961 to 1965 and Presiding Supervisor of Nassau County from 1965 to 1970. It was there that his reputation as a brick-and-mortar leader began when he added a new wing to Hempstead Town Hall.
        While County Executive, he initiated plans for development of the Nassau County Medical Center and some of the county's first housing for the elderly, including the Green Acres complex in Valley Stream.
        ''He had a driving force to build and expand,'' said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who also started his rise through Republican ranks in the town of Hempstead, and who followed Mr. Caso as Supervisor.
        By the end of Mr. Caso's second four-year term, Republican leaders had grown to believe that he had too many opponents to win election to a third term. After a bitter party primary, Mr. Caso was replaced on the Republican ballot by Francis T. Purcell. Mr. Caso continued to run as an independent, but lost in the general election to Mr. Purcell.
        During the campaign, Mr. Caso purged those he believed to be supporters of Mr. Purcell from appointed office, further extending his feud with Joseph M. Margiotta, who was  the Republican county chairman.
        That feud persisted into the mid-1980's, when Mr. Caso appeared as a witness against Mr. Margiotta in a trial in which Mr. Margiotta and the Nassau County Republican Committee were charged with illegally linking county hiring practices and political patronage.
        Many government workers in Nassau County testified that they were forced to contribute 1 percent of their salaries to the Republican Party to retain their jobs and get promotions.
        Mr. Caso testified in 1985 that when he was County Executive, he tried to ''professionalize'' the county government by creating the office of director of personnel. ''I wanted the people to feel free to walk in off the street and seek a job and not have to go through Republican headquarters,'' Mr. Caso told the court. He said he issued a memorandum in 1971 warning against the practice of having workers contribute 1 percent of their salaries to the party.
        Mr. Caso said it was for that and other reasons that he had a falling out with Mr. Margiotta, who did not support his bid for a third term.
        Mr. Margiotta stepped down as party chairman in 1983 before serving a two-year Federal prison sentence for mail fraud and perjury in an unrelated case involving insurance fraud.
        Despite Mr. Caso's differences with Mr. Purcell, the two men ultimately ended their quarrel. ''You had to hand it to Ralph,'' said Mr. Purcell, who now lives in Florida.  ''He was a very decent individual, a straight shooter and very honest.''
        Flags on all government buildings in the county were ordered lowered to half staff on Monday by County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta, who had appointed Mr. Caso co-chairman of a committee planning the county's bicentennial celebration next year.
        Mr. Caso is survived by his wife, Grace; a son, Ralph Jr., of Nesconset, N.Y., and a daughter, Jolisa Sagstetter of Wantagh, N.Y.
        Correction:  September 10, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Sept. 2 about Ralph G. Caso, the Nassau County Executive for eight years in the 1970's, misstated the purpose of a county planning committee on which he served as co-chairman at his death. It is planning Nassau County's centennial in 1999, not its bicentennial.
      