
        Holger W. Jannasch, who probed the dark recesses of the sea for the tiniest forms of life and helped discover how they constitute a hidden biosphere that dominates the planet and may be the place where life itself arose, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 71.
        The cause was lymphoma, said  colleagues at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod.
        Known for his acumen, cooperative spirit and high standards of scientific inquiry, Dr. Jannasch was a senior scientist at Woods Hole. He was born in Germany, trained there as a biologist and joined Woods Hole in 1963 when he moved to this county. Throughout his career he worked to understand microbial ecology in the deep sea, helping discover, map and analyze the workings of a strange and important world.
        Some scientists now suspect that the planet has a secret biosphere of dark ecosystems reaching down miles -- even into solid rock -- whose total mass exceeds that of all surface life. Dr. Jannasch himself was wary of that generalization, even though it was rooted partly in his own painstaking work.
        ''I'm an experimentalist,'' he once said. ''We do not yet have enough solid observations to say this is so.''
        Dr. Jannasch roamed the earth. A participant or chief scientist on more than 35 oceanographic cruises, he sailed the Atlantic, the Pacific, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea to do experiments and gather microbial samples. He also traveled to Lake Kivu in eastern Zaire in 1970, to high lakes in the central Tibetan plateau in 1988 and to Tasmania in 1990.
        ''Science is an adventure, not a career,'' he once said.
        Dr. Jannasch and his colleagues did the world's first experiments at sea to understand the conditions under which microbes can decompose materials on the deep seabed. The work was prompted by an accidental discovery. The submersible Alvin, a three-person vessel run by Woods Hole, sank in 1968 with no crewmen aboard. When it was recovered in 1969, the bag lunches found inside --  three apples and three bologna sandwiches -- were waterlogged but otherwise in perfect condition.
        Intrigued, Dr. Jannasch found that bacterial metabolisms slowed by as much as 100 times amid icy temperature and crushing pressure. The implications were obvious, Dr. Jannasch and a colleague later wrote,  ''The deep sea is not a suitable environment for dumping solid organic wastes.''
        Eventually, his findings helped propel a worldwide drive to ban the oceanic dumping of sewage.
        Dr. Jannasch's research also helped explain the eerie preservation of many deep shipwrecks that began to come to light in the 1980's and 1990's, the most famous being the Titanic, found more than two miles down in pitch darkness.
        The great opportunity of his career came in 1977 with the discovery  of the hot volcanic springs on the deep seabed. These emitted water rich in microbes and minerals, erected tall stone chimneys and fed exotic creatures in numbers far greater than anywhere else in the deep, making them a scientific sensation.
        Dr. Jannasch was among the leading scientists who deciphered the workings of these bizarre creatures.  In particular, he documented how tiny, sulfur-eating microbes thrived in the extraordinarily hot waters and powered the dark ecosystems as a whole, acting much as plants do on land to provide energy to a wide variety of animals. He showed that the microbes did their magic by feeding on hot chemicals rather than sunlight.
        His name ''soon became synonymous with deep sea microbiology,'' a recent Woods Hole statement said.
        On numerous expeditions and dives, Dr. Jannasch pioneered new methods to gather up the heat-loving microbes, known as hyperthermophiles.
        ''Every time we go to sea, we isolate new ones,'' he said in 1993. ''We get surprises all the time. The biology and biophysics of these organisms is completely different, which is very exciting.''
        Some scientists now believe that these organisms are the direct descendants of the first forms of life on earth.
        Dr. Jannasch was honored in 1996 when one of these exotic microbes was named after him. Today, Methanococcus jannaschii is one of the few microbes that has been decoded to reveal its complete set of genetic instructions, an important step in understanding its evolutionary past.
        Though rigorous in interpreting evidence, Dr. Jannasch could also shape bold hypotheses. In a 1985 article in the journal Science, he said, long before the idea became fashionable scientifically, that the dark ecosystems of the deep sea hinted at the ''possible occurrence of similar life forms in other planetary settings'' where water was present but not light.
        Today, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is working to test that theory as it prepares to probe beneath Martian soil and the ice on the Jovian moon Europa, which may harbor the solar system's deepest ocean, wrapped in primordial darkness.
        Holger Windekilde Jannasch was born in Holzminden, Germany, on  May 23, 1927. He was drafted into the German military at the age of 15 and served until he was taken prisoner by the British near the end of World War II. Afterward, he pursued his childhood dream of becoming a forest ranger and then fell in love with the sea while serving at a bird sanctuary on the German coast.
        Though working most of his career in the United States, he kept his German citizenship, and in 1995 he was elected a foreign associate of the National Academy of Sciences, a rare honor.
        He is survived by his wife, Friederun Goldschmidt Jannasch; a son, Hans, of Monterey, Calif.; a brother, Niels, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and  two grandsons.
      