
        Yang Shangkun, a former President of China and the military leader who orchestrated  the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989 on Tiananmen Square, died early today, the Chinese Government announced. He was 91.
        Mr. Yang was one of the last of the Old Guard of revolutionaries, including the late Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, who fought for decades to create a Communist state and then ruled it into the 1990's, when a new generation led by the current Communist Party chief and President,  Jiang Zemin, took over.
        An eminent figure in the history of Communist China, Mr. Yang was once widely seen as a potential successor to Deng as supreme leader.  But he overplayed his hand, and in 1992 Deng, who then ruled China largely from behind the scenes, edged Mr. Yang from office. Deng died last year.
        After his ouster Mr. Yang remained a respected party elder, with strong ties in the military. Energetic and, up to this year, given to making his own ''inspection'' tours of the provinces, he was considered a thorn in the side of Mr. Jiang, with whom he had strained relations.
        Mr. Jiang, who does not have a military background, has asserted his own control over the military and is now engaged in the delicate task of forcing the People's Liberation Army to give up its extensive business operations.
        ''Jiang Zemin is rejoicing over this death, I would surmise,'' said David Shambaugh, an expert on Chinese politics at George Washington University in Washington. ''This removes a big obstacle to his control over the P.L.A.''
        An official obituary issued today called Mr. Yang ''a great proletarian revolutionary, a statesman, a military strategist, a staunch Marxist, an outstanding leader of the party, the state and the people's army.''
        Born in 1907 to a land-owning family in the southwestern province of Sichuan, Mr. Yang joined the Communist Party at 18 and in 1926 traveled to Moscow, where he studied at Sun Yat-sen University.
        A military commissar in the civil war, Mr. Yang took part in the legendary Long March of 1934-35, fleeing Chiang Kai-shek's forces. Even before 1949, when the People's Republic was founded, and until the mid-60's, Mr. Yang was one of a handful of leaders who worked closely with Mao. As head of the Central Committee General Office, he directly oversaw most important Communist Party affairs.
        But by 1966, as the Cultural Revolution began, Mr. Yang, as with his longtime comrade Deng, had fallen from favor with Mao. He was branded a counterrevolutionary and, according to the obituary issued today by the official New China News Agency, he spent 12 years in prison.
        In 1978, Mr. Yang and Deng both regained power. In the next few years, as Deng began to gain top authority and set the country on a path of economic change, Mr. Yang was put in charge of shrinking and modernizing the huge backward army. He was given the rank of general. In 1982 he was appointed to the party's powerful Politburo. In 1988, Mr. Yang was given the prestigious if largely ceremonial title of President. But his power lay in his position as vice chairman of the central military commission.
        Many younger Chinese remember Mr. Yang from May 1989, when he appeared on television along with Prime Minister Li Peng to denounce what he called anarchy in Beijing, where student demonstrators had occupied Tiananmen Square, and to defend the imposition of martial law.  Deng, who had decided that force had to quell the democracy movement, called on Mr. Yang to mobilize the army and plan the operation, which resulted in the killing of hundreds of students and others on June 4 and subsequent days.
        Mr. Yang and his younger half brother, Yang Baibing, then purged the army of officers who had failed to support the operations properly. In the years after 1989, Mr. Yang and his half brother spurred growing suspicion and resentment among other military elders as they packed the army's upper ranks with supporters.  Many senior leaders felt that the ''Yang family clique'' was trying to dominate the army, if not positioning itself to rule when the ailing Deng died, Mr. Shambaugh said. Deng decided that he had to force Mr. Yang to give up his posts. Yang Baibing was also forced off the military commission, although he remained at the Politburo until last year.
        As is common with Chinese leaders, little is known of Mr. Yang's personal life. His wife, Li Bozhao, who had also been in the Long March, died in 1985. He is believed to be survived by at least one son.
      