
        Carl Loeb Kempner, the managing senior partner at the Wall Street firm of Hamershlag, Kempner & Company and a longtime supporter of education, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 74 and had been battling prostate cancer for more than 20 years, according to his son Michael Kempner.
        A grandson of Carl Loeb, founder of the firm that became Loeb, Rhoades & Company, Mr. Kempner worked at several firms in several businesses before he joined a securities company called Hamershlag, Borg in 1966. He eventually became head of the firm, which took on his name, and remained active until shortly before his death.
        Among his proudest achievements was making a ''cold call'' on the telephone to J. Paul Getty's country estate in England and selling the wealthy oilman some stock. Mr. Kempner became one of Mr. Getty's brokers and visited the estate in England frequently. ''I used to joke that I went to school on a Getty scholarship,'' Michael Kempner said.
        From 1976 to 1979 Mr. Kempner was chairman of the small firms advisory committee of the New York Stock Exchange.
        He was also actively involved in philanthropy related to education. He was president of the board of trustees at the Rectory School in Pomfret, Conn., from 1972 to 1978. He was a trustee of Choate Rosemary Hall from 1977 until 1985 and served as its treasurer and as chairman of its investment committee. He was on the Committee of University Resources at Harvard, and he founded and headed the Presidents Council and established the Kempner Distinguished Professorships at Purchase College, part of the State University of New York.
        He also was on the Presidents Council at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where he was being treated.
        Mr. Kempner was born in Pittsburgh, the son of Alan Kempner, who was an executive with the publishing company of Farrar & Strauss, and Margaret Loeb Kempner. He graduated from the Choate School in 1941 and then attended Harvard University. He left Harvard to join a Navy training program and served in the Naval Reserve until 1946. He never finished college.
        He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Doris Coleman Kempner, who is a psychiatric social worker in White Plains. He is also survived by his mother, Margaret Loeb Kempner of Purchase, N.Y.; two daughters, Kathryn Kempner Poteat of Southern Pines, N.C., and Margaret A. Kempner of Fairfield, Iowa; two sons, Carl Jr. and Michael, both of New York; two brothers, Alan Jr., of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Thomas, of New York, and three grandchildren.
      