
        Reynold B. Johnson, a prolific inventor best known for creating the world's first commercial computer disk drive, died on Tuesday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92.
        The cause was a metastatic melanoma, family members said.
        Mr. Johnson's first notable invention is familiar to anyone who has taken a standardized multiple-choice test. In 1932, when he was a high school science teacher in Michigan, Mr. Johnson devised and built an electromechanical device for automatically checking and grading pencil-marked multiple-choice tests. He attempted to interest the International Business Machines Corporation in his invention, but with no initial success.
        In 1934, however, I.B.M. reassessed Mr. Johnson's invention and hired him as an engineer to work in its Columbia University and Endicott, N.Y., laboratories. There, over the years, he produced hundreds of inventions, many relating to the handling, punching and reading of key-punch cards, then the primary means of storing computer data.
        In 1952, I.B.M. sent him to San Jose, Calif., then a small town, to found the company's West Coast Laboratory. His charter was to recruit a research staff and pursue advanced projects on more efficient ways of storing and retrieving data.
        At first, Mr. Johnson and his staff of 15 focused on a rotating drum -- a hollow cylinder with a rapidly traversing magnetic head inside that could quickly read data from, or write data to, any track on the surface.
        But he soon shifted to experimenting with multiple magnetic disks, which he thought in time could be made smaller and more reliable.
        I.B.M. shipped Mr. Johnson's first disk drive, which was purchased by Crown Zellerbach, in 1956. That drive, the Ramac, had 50 24-inch- diameter double-sided aluminum magnetic disks; it weighed a ton and stored 5 megabytes of data. Earlier this month, I.B.M. introduced a new drive with a one-inch diameter disk that weighs but a few ounces and stores 340 megabytes.
        When Mr. Johnson retired from I.B.M. in 1971, he had at least 90 patents to his name, but he had not finished inventing. At his own Education Engineering Associates consulting company in Palo Alto, he developed a microphonograph that allows children to point a hand-held device at a picture or word in a book and hear it tell them what it was.
        Fisher-Price's ''Talk to Me Books,'' which incorporated this device, won a Toy of the Year award. In later years, Mr. Johnson worked on a system for codifying Chinese characters.
        He was awarded the National Medal of Technology in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan.
        A Minnesota native, Mr. Johnson attended the University of Minnesota, receiving a degree in education. He is survived by his wife, Beatrice, of Palo Alto, and two sons, Philip and David, both of Washington. A daughter, Karen, died in 1991. Mr. Johnson is also survived by a sister, Signe Broberg of Minneapolis; two brothers, Leroy, of Dassel, Minn., and Donovan, of Edina, Minn., and four grandchildren.
      