
        Gerold Frank, a pioneer of the contemporary literary form of the as-told-to celebrity biography, died on Thursday at the Logan Square East Retirement Community in Philadelphia. He was 91.
        Mr. Frank also wrote such well-reviewed books as ''The Boston Strangler,'' which was made into a movie with Tony Curtis, and ''An American Death,'' about the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
        But to some extent, those books were overshadowed by his reputation as a ghostwriter for a succession of famous women. He collaborated  with Mike Connolly and the singer Lillian Roth on her memoir, ''I'll Cry Tomorrow,'' which was made into a movie with Susan Hayward, and with the gossip columnist Sheilah Graham on ''Beloved Infidel,'' the story of her relationship with F. Scott Fitzgerald in Hollywood. That too became a movie, starring Gregory Peck and Deborah Kerr.
        Mr. Frank also collaborated with Diana Barrymore on ''Too Much,  Too Soon,'' and with Zsa Zsa Gabor, on ''My Story.'' He was the author of ''Judy,'' a biography of Judy Garland.
        Mr. Frank said in an interview in Life magazine in 1959 that he thought ''the humiliations and yearnings of women are more dramatic to us than those of men.'' He was so successful at the as-told-to form, he said, that drunks and madmen implored him to write their biographies.
        Diana Barrymore said in the Life article that telling her story to Mr. Frank made her feel that ''I have been reborn.''
        ''I told him things I wouldn't have told a priest,'' she said. ''He was always there, like a sponge. I lied to him, and I am a brilliant liar. But he'd know.''
        In the same article, Zsa Zsa Gabor  said she revealed to Mr. Frank ''more than I would ever tell a psychiatrist.''
        Mr. Frank always took his work seriously and never mocked the travails of his famous subjects. ''I went around asking myself: What could it be like to throw your life away? To actually, literally roll in the gutter? To abandon hope?'' he said in Life.
        ''Or to know the ecstasy that most of us never know: to be transfigured by love?' I had to find out.''
        He inhabited his subjects like a dybbuk, spending weeks interviewing them and meticulously researching their lives.
        He also ghostwrote so many different books without credit that his son, Dr. John L. Frank, said he was not sure how many his father had produced. There were at least 17.
        Sometimes when his father had ghostwritten a book, said Dr. Frank, there would be only an acknowledgment at the beginning.
        Mr. Frank was born in 1907 in  Cleveland, where his father was a tailor and owned a dress shop. After graduating from Ohio State University he moved to Greenwich Village, hoping to become a poet.
        He failed at that, and got a job as a newspaperman in Cleveland. He published pieces in The New Yorker and The Nation, and returned to New York, working for The Journal-American.
        In 1934 Mr. Frank made a film about the lives of his parents and of his wife, Lillian, in a Polish shtetl. It included rare scenes of the Warsaw Ghetto, which he later donated to the Yivo Institute for Jewish Research.
        Mr. Frank, who lived in an apartment on Fifth Avenue for 25 years until he moved to a retirement home in Philadelphia in 1995, is survived by his wife and son, both of Philadelphia; a daughter, Amy Rosenblum of Richmond, Va.; a sister, Ethel Kaufman of Coconut Creek, Fla.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Frank also wrote extensively about the lives of Jews of Eastern Europe before the Holocaust. During World War II, he worked as a war correspondent in the Middle East, and he collaborated on Bartley Crum's ''Behind the Silken Curtain,'' an account of the work of the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry on Palestine, which was instrumental in the founding of Israel.
        He wrote about Israel again in ''The Deed,'' an account of the assassination of the British diplomat Lord Moyne. He won an Edgar from the Mystery Writers of America for the work, which was published in 1963.
        Mr. Frank won a second Edgar for  ''The Boston Strangler'' (1966). The New York Times called the book ''compulsively readable'' and praised Mr. Frank for underplaying his sensational story.
      