
        Arthur S. Lall, an Indian diplomat of the Jawaharlal Nehru generation who helped secure his newly independent country a place near the center of world affairs in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 13 in New York. He was 87.
        Mr. Lall, who settled in Manhattan at the end of his diplomatic career and taught international relations at the Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs, was Consul General for India and then India's representative at the United Nations in New York in the 50's.
        He later represented India at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, where he was active in early arms talks between the United States and the Soviet Union. Mr. Lall was a lifelong opponent of nuclear weapons and nuclear testing. India, he argued in 1962, was ''against tests by anyone, anywhere, any time.'' But he lived to see India set off nuclear explosions two times, in 1974 and this year.
        ''He belonged to a generation of Indian diplomats when the Indian Foreign Service used to recruit the very best of what India has to offer,'' said Sumit Ganguly, a professor of political science at the City University of New York. ''This was the time of extraordinary international activism in Indian diplomacy, and people like Arthur Lall were linchpins.''
        Mr. Lall is perhaps best remembered for the role he played behind the scenes at the United Nations when the abrasive and viscerally anti-American K. P. Krishna Menon was India's leading voice in foreign policy.
        In 1967, Conor Cruise O'Brien described Mr. Lall as the intellectual force and moderating influence behind the Menon diplomatic team. ''Arthur Lall was, by general consent, the brains behind the delegation; he was also its patience and its urbanity,'' Mr. O'Brien wrote in a review of one of Mr. Lall's numerous books, ''Modern International Negotiations: Principles and Practices'' (Columbia University Press, 1967).
        In 1967, Mr. Lall wrote ''How China Negotiates,'' based in large measure on his experiences and knowledge. In 1981 he took a last academic look at his homeland in ''The Emergence of Modern India.''
        Mr. Lall, a quietly good-humored and elegant man with a shock of snow-white hair who remained a familiar figure in New York research and policy organizations until his death, also wrote poetry and fiction. He wrote two novels, ''The House at Adampur'' in 1956 and ''Seasons of Jupiter'' in 1958.
        Arthur Samuel Lall was born on July 14, 1911, in Lahore, the intellectual center of the northern tier of British India. Lahore remains the cultural capital of Pakistan.
        After partition his family settled in India, where his brother John, a leading scholar on foreign affairs, served for a number of years as Dewan, the Indian-appointed prime minister of Sikkim, an independent Buddhist kingdom eventually swallowed up by India in the 70's.
        Born into a Christian family Arthur Lall was educated at Punjab University in Lahore and at Oxford.  Before arriving in the United States, where he spent much of his diplomatic career, Mr. Lall was India's first Trade Commissioner in London and a Government official in New Delhi.
        In 1963 he married Betty Goetz, a former professor of labor relations at Cornell and an arms-control specialist whom he met in 1962 at a disarmament conference in Geneva. Mrs. Lall survives him, along with his brother and a sister, Joy.
        A memorial service is to be held at 10 A.M. on Oct. 7 at the Church Center for the United Nations, 777 United Nations Plaza.
      