
        John Paul Monahan 3d, a lawyer and NBC News legal analyst, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. The husband of Katie Couric, the host of NBC's ''Today'' program, Mr. Monahan was 42 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was cancer, said Erica Proto, an NBC News spokeswoman.
        Mr. Monahan, who went by the name Jay, provided legal analysis for NBC News, MSNBC and CNBC during major cases since 1995, including the O.J. Simpson criminal and civil trials, the Timothy McVeigh trial and the Unabomber trial.
        Robert Wright, president of NBC, said: ''I appreciated Jay not only as a fine lawyer and perceptive legal analyst but as a clever wit. He was very special to those of us who were fortunate enough to call him 'friend and colleague.' He will be missed.''
        Ms. Proto said, ''He was a valued member of the NBC News family.''
        His cancer was diagnosed in early 1997, but Mr. Monahan continued to work, covering the Unabom trial until last month.
        Mr. Monahan was born in Manhasset on Long Island, and he graduated with honors in 1977 from Washington and Lee University, where he played four years of varsity football and lacrosse. He entered Georgetown Law School, edited the Georgetown Law Journal and graduated with honors in 1985.
        Mr. Monahan worked as a clerk for Judge Thomas Hogan in United States District Court in the District of Columbia. From 1986 to 1993, Mr. Monahan litigated criminal and civil law for the Washington-based law firm of Williams & Connolly.
        In 1989, he married Ms. Couric, who was a reporter in Washington. From 1993 to 1994, he worked in the New York office of the law firm Hunton & Williams.
        In addition to Ms. Couric, Mr. Monahan is survived by the couple's two daughters, Elinor, 6, and Caroline, 2. He is also survived by his parents, Carol and John P. Monahan Jr. of Rehoboth Beach, Del.; his brothers and sisters, Barbara Monahan, Clare Myers, Chris Monahan, Kathryn Monahan, Henry Monahan and Sally Monahan, and 11 nieces and nephews.
      