
        Louis P. Martini, a leading figure in the California wine business and chairman of the Louis M. Martini Winery in Napa Valley, died Monday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        The Martini family has been involved in the California wine industry for more than 70 years. Mr. Martini's father, Louis M. Martini, founded the family winery as the L. M. Martini Grape Products Company in 1922 in Kingsburg, near Fresno. The elder Martini, who never thought of Prohibition as anything more than a temporary aberration, began planning the expansion of his business while other wine companies were closing.
        In 1933, he moved to the Napa Valley and changed the company's name to the Louis M. Martini Winery.
        Louis Peter Martini was born in Livermore and grew up in Kingsburg, working in the winery and in the vineyards as a boy. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1941 and spent four years in the Army Air Forces during World War II. He joined the winery as vice president in 1946 and became the winemaker in 1954; wines he made in the 1950's and 60's are still prized by collectors.
        At 6 feet 4 inches, Mr. Martini was a gentle giant, who worked in the shadow of his flamboyant father until the elder Martini's death in 1974. To an extent, the son's self-effacing nature is reflected in the winery's reputation. While he was a major producer of fine wine and an important behind-the-scenes industry leader, Mr. Martini avoided the well-publicized social side of Napa Valley life, and his winery rarely appeared in trendy articles about the wine business.
        But his achievements were numerous. In the 50's and 60's, he helped improve grape quality by identifying and propagating superior grape clones. He developed vineyards in the Carneros district of the valley when it was considered useful only for grazing sheep, and he is credited with making the first Carneros varietal pinot noir in 1952. Today, many of the best California pinot noirs come from Carneros. Mr. Martini also made the first varietal merlot wine in the United States with his merlot blend of 1968 to 1970. And he was a pioneer in the use of mechanical grape harvesting.
        From 1968 to 1985, he was president and general manager of the winery, which remains in family hands. His daughter Carolyn is president and chief executive.
        Mr. Martini was a founder and former chairman of the Wine Institute and a charter member of the American Society of Enologists.
        Surviving, besides his daughter, are his wife, Elizabeth Martinelli Martini; two sons, Michael, of St. Helena, the current Martini winemaker, and Peter, of Seattle; another daughter, Patricia, of San Francisco, and four grandchildren.
      