
        William Albright, a composer, organist and pianist, died on Sept. 17 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 53.
        The cause was liver failure, said his agent, Karen McFarlane.
        Mr. Albright won special respect for his work in ragtime and organ music. These might seem quite distinct fields, but, characteristically, he brought them together. He wrote rags for the organ, which had probably never had rags written for it before, and his creative output was nourished by a love of the American vernacular that he found in ragtime and church music.
        He was born on Oct. 20, 1944, in Gary, Ind., and attended the Juilliard School's preparatory department before going to the University of Michigan in 1962. There he studied composition with Ross Lee Finney and George Rochberg and the organ with Marilyn Mason. He spent the 1968-69 academic year in Paris, attending Olivier Messiaen's classes at the Conservatory, and then returned to the University of Michigan, where he completed his graduate studies and then joined the faculty in 1970. He remained at the university, eventually becoming chairman of the composition department.
        Mr. Albright's discovery of prejazz musical styles -- ragtime and stride piano -- was a revelation. He performed and recorded much of this music, which provided a crucial model for such early works as his  ''Grand Sonata in Rag'' for piano (1968). As he wrote of this piece: ''Ragtime, a beautiful, classical, syncopated music from the turn of the century, has turned out to have a new fascination for composers nurtured in our century's subsequent modernism. Imagination, as well as tonality and rhythmic vitality, could run rampant: why not have fun and sentimentality? It's very avant-garde!''
        He continued to have fun and sentimentality, and to help other composers along the way. While contributing extensively to the organ repertory, he also commissioned pieces from diverse contemporaries that he played on his concert tours of North America and Europe. His own organ pieces include the Symphony of 1986. Among other works are mixed-media pieces for the theater, compositions for instrumental ensembles (usually unconventional ones) and a 1983 oratorio, ''A Song to David.'' He is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Mae Albright of New York; a son,  John Kirk Albright of Ypsilanti, Mich., and two brothers, John B., of Germantown, Md., and Richard, of Morristown, N.J.
      