
        Chet Hoff, who was born a decade before the American League was founded and pitched for the Yankees when they were known as the Highlanders, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 107 and had lived longer than anyone else who ever played major league baseball.
        When Hoff made his big league debut in September 1911, the Highlanders were playing at the wood-grandstand Hilltop Park in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, on the site now occupied by Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. The league's premier batters included Ty Cobb, Joe Jackson and Tris Speaker, and its pitching stars were Walter Johnson and Smokey Joe Wood.
        In his second major league game, Hoff, a red-haired, 20-year-old left-hander fresh off the Westchester County sandlots, was summoned in relief against the Detroit Tigers.
        As he recalled it 80 years later, the batter ''fouled off two -- the first two strikes were fastballs.''
        ''The third strike I give him the fast curve,'' he remembered in an interview for a publication of the Society for American Baseball Research. ''I throwed a perfect strike over there and he looked at it. But I didn't know who he was no more than the man in the moon until the next morning I picked up The New York Journal, and the big red headlines in the paper says 'Hoff Strikes Out Ty Cobb.' Boy! I couldn't believe it at first. It was the biggest thrill I ever had.''
        ''Ty Cobb was the greatest ballplayer I ever saw,'' Hoff once said. ''He could do everything. He was better than Ruth, if you ask me.''
        Hoff pitched in the majors for only four seasons, appearing briefly for New York from 1911 to 1913 and then, after a season in the minors, finishing his big league career with the St. Louis Browns in 1915. He had a career record of 2-4, with a 2.49 earned run average, pitching in 23 games.
        He returned to the minors, and then World War I brought an end to his career. ''I was at Kansas City in 1918 and I think we were in first place, but there was nothing but soldiers sitting in the stands,'' he recalled. ''And July 1, all the ball parks closed up and so that was my finish. We all had to scatter and get a job.''
        No one came close to Hoff on the major league longevity list. According to research on file at the Baseball Hall of Fame, the second-oldest former big leaguer was Bob Wright, a pitcher for the 1915 Chicago Cubs, who died at 101. At least five others, including Paul Otis, an outfielder who was a teammate of Hoff's on the 1912 Highlanders, died at 100.
        Chester Cornelius Hoff -- called Chet and Red during his playing days -- was born on May 8, 1891, in Ossining, N.Y., which was known as the town of Sing Sing then. When his playing days ended, he returned to Ossining and pitched semipro baseball on Sundays for 10 years, facing some top Negro league teams as well as inmates at the Sing Sing state prison in games inside the penitentiary walls. He worked as a map cutter for Rand McNally in Ossining before retiring to Florida in the 1950's.
        When Hoff celebrated his 100th birthday, he was interviewed by Joe Garagiola for NBC's ''Today'' show, prompting fans from around the country to write to him for autographs.
        The Yankees sent him a uniform and a congratulatory letter. ''I think I could still pitch nine innings,'' he said then. ''I might give it a try, considering the salaries they're making now.''
        In September 1993, Hoff returned to the site of his baseball summers, by then a garden at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He dedicated a bronze plaque on the site where home plate was believed to have been at Hilltop Park.
        Hoff is survived by two daughters, Eve Kelley of Indian Harbor Beach, Fla., and Jane Kear of Lake Worth, Fla.; a sister, Edith Gerren, of Westfield, N.J.; four grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild.
      