
        James Fletcher, chairman of the South Shore Bank, a pioneering lender to some of the poorer neighborhoods in Chicago, died of complications of lymphoma on Sept. 16 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and a lifelong resident of the city.
        Mr. Fletcher was one of a group of idealistic young bankers in the early 1970's who transformed a struggling commercial bank into a model of how a for-profit company could help revitalize deteriorating communities.
        South Shore has been one of few banks to operate in low-income neighborhoods and make money investing in the community. Many locally owned banks in low-income neighborhoods are criticized because they are run very conservatively, making few loans with the deposits they gather. Others, notably Freedom National Bank in Harlem, have failed because of lending policies that were too aggressive.
        Mr. Fletcher ''felt very strongly that we had a dual objective, to make a profit and to do development work,'' said Milton Davis, the vice chairman of the Shorebank Corporation, South Shore's holding company, and one of the bankers who took over the company in 1973.
        ''If there was an application for a loan that might not be profitable but would contribute enormously to the development of an area, he would always take the side of development,'' Mr. Davis said. ''But he was successful in finding a way to put a credit on the books of the bank structured in a way that we were sure to be repaid.''
        Mr. Fletcher was born on Jan. 21, 1935, in Chicago. After graduating from Northern Illinois University in 1958, he served three years in the Marine Corps and then taught in the Chicago public schools for three years.
        In 1963, he joined the Chicago Committee on Urban Opportunity as an urban planner for the city's anti-poverty program. He held several other government jobs before joining  Hyde Park Bank and Trust, near the University of Chicago, in 1969 to work in its urban redevelopment lending division.
        The South Shore Bank, then a traditional commercial bank, was struggling to survive as its neighborhood population changed from white to black. It wanted to move into the Standard Oil Building in downtown Chicago, but its application was rejected by the Federal Government after protests by the community.
        In 1972, several executives from Hyde Park Bank, including Ronald A. Grzywinski, its president, raised $4 million from foundations, church groups and wealthy individuals to buy South Shore and devote it to community development.
        Mr. Fletcher left Hyde Park for South Shore in 1978. At first, he ran a fund that made equity investments in small businesses and a nonprofit institute, linked to the bank, that operated some of the development projects.
        In 1983 he was named president of South Shore Bank, and in 1996 he became chairman.
        The success of South Shore drew the attention of Bill Clinton when he was Governor of Arkansas. Mr. Clinton encouraged the establishment of a similar bank in Little Rock, and in his 1992 Presidential campaign he promised to encourage other community development banks modeled on South Shore.
        But South Shore's practices have at times been criticized.
        Several community groups and black churches protested South Shore's acquisition of Indecorp, the largest black-owned bank in Chicago, in 1995. They complained that South Shore was mainly owned by white people and big companies, including the largest commercial banks in Chicago. Mr. Grzywinski, the chairman, and many of the managers are white. Mr. Davis is black, as was Mr. Fletcher.
        Since the acquisition, however, South Shore has increased the loans that are made at the Indecorp branches from 30 percent of deposits to 70 percent.
        Mr. Fletcher is survived by his wife, the former Norma Gant; his mother, Mildred Fletcher Holtz of Milwaukee; three daughters, Cheryl Mulholland of Costa Mesa, Calif., and Maria Barksdale and Kathleen Lisciotto, both of Chicago; a son, James P. Fletcher of Chicago; seven grandchildren, and two sisters, Kathleen Hall of Racine, Wis., and Sharon F. Schultz of Milwaukee.
      