
        Ernst Rudolph Jaakson, the Ambassador from Estonia who maintained a consulate in New York after the Soviet Union absorbed the country, died on Sept. 4 in New York, the Estonian Consulate said. He was 93, and had been a diplomat for 75 years -- the longest-serving diplomat in the world, according to the State Department.
        Mr. Jaakson was revered by his fellow Estonians for being an ambassador without a country and for making the consulate in Rockefeller Center a symbol of freedom in the decades that the country was a part of the Soviet Union.
        In those years, he represented Estonia's interests before the Government and businesses of the United States and broadcast messages of hope on the Voice of America. He also continued to issue Estonian passports, leftovers from its years as a free nation, which ended in 1940.
        Jaakson passports, as they came to be known, were honored by many  Western countries, including the United States.
        The admiration of Estonians for Mr. Jaakson was exhibited by Lennart Meri, the current President of Estonia, during a New York visit in the early 1980's.
        He made his way to Rockefeller Center, according to the center's magazine, and went to the 14th floor, to the offices of the Estonian consulate. But rather than enter, he stood in the hall, gazing silently at the consulate's black door. After a while he turned and rode the elevator back down. He did not want to bother Mr. Jaakson, he later explained. It was enough to see the door of the consulate Mr. Jaakson had maintained for so long.
        Born in Riga, Latvia, in 1905, Mr. Jaakson was a teen-ager when he began working part time at the Estonian Consulate there, cleaning and organizing the files. After he studied at the University of Latvia and the University of Tartu in Estonia, the consulate sent him to San Francisco.
        In 1932, three years after coming to America, he moved to New York, where he helped to open the consulate. He earned a degree in economics at Columbia, graduating in 1934.
        In 1991, Estonia won back its independence and he was made Ambassador to the United States.
        His wife, Claire, died earlier. There are no survivors.
      