
        Viscount Rothermere, one of the last of Britain's great press barons, who helped transform The Daily Mail from a listless money loser to a highly successful newspaper aimed at Britain's growing middle class, died on Tuesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 73 and had a heart attack, according to Vyvyan Harmsworth, the director of corporate affairs for The Daily Mail and General Holdings Ltd.
        Born into a newspaper-owning family but also into a world of upper-class privilege, Lord Rothermere came late to his calling, taking control of The Daily Mail and General Trust, the parent company of The Mail and numerous other newspapers, from his ailing father in 1971. But it was then that he made the bold and risky decision to change The Mail from a large-style broadsheet to a tabloid newspaper, going after young professional women readers and the country's conservative-minded middle class.
        ''He inspired the revolution in mid-market papers in the past 20 years,'' Lord Hollick, group chief executive of United News and Media, the company that owns The Express newspaper, The Daily Mail's main competitor, told the Press Association today. ''Lord Rothermere was the quintessential proprietor, passionate for his papers, robust in his views and commercially courageous.''
        In addition to The Daily Mail, the colorful and outspoken Lord Rothermere was the proprietor of The Mail on Sunday, which he founded in 1982; The Evening Standard, and a large group of regional newspapers around Britain, among other properties. He was also an amateur poet and a student of Zen Buddhism who, when once asked what class he belonged to, answered ''nobleman.'' At the age of 71, he proudly announced: ''I am a playboy.''
        With newspaper holdings estimated to be worth $1.7 billion, Lord Rothermere was also one of a dying breed of rich, powerful newspaper proprietors who once ran most of London's newspapers as the jewels in their family's media empires. But while the Aitkens, Astors and Beaverbrooks sold their holdings, Lord Rothermere kept his, explaining that he had the family pride to uphold.
        ''My wife can't understand why I'm still here and why it is so important for me to succeed,'' he told one of his employees once, when his wife called to complain that it was midnight and he was still at the office. ''It is even more difficult for me than for you, because you can get another job. I can never got another empire.''
        Born Vere Harold Esmond Harmsworth, the oldest son of the second Viscount Rothermere, Lord Rothermere had such an undistinguished time at Eton that college was considered too high a goal, and he joined the army. Failing to make it as an officer, he served four years, without promotion, as a private. He later said that his humble military career gave him an understanding of the common man that would prove invaluable later.
        ''When you're standing above a tree, you can only see the branches and the leaves, but when you're underneath the tree, and you look up, you can see all the things inside the tree, and that's a very valuable experience,'' he said.
        Lord Rothermere's father believed that aristocrats, once they had made their fortunes, should leave the  management of their companies to hired workers. But when he took his son riding as a boy and described the glorious life he could have as an officer in a high-class cavalry brigade, the young Vere was not impressed.
        ''I listened to all this and I thought, 'Oh how awful, how absolutely ghastly,' '' he recalled. '' 'I saw the prospect of endless boredom stretching before me. I never wanted to do anything but work in newspapers.' ''
        The newspapers he wanted to work for had been founded in 1896 by his great-uncle, the first Lord Northcliffe, widely considered the father of modern popular journalism in Britain. But he had to start at the bottom, and his first newspaper-related job was in Quebec, where he worked in a paper mill. When he returned to London, his new assignment -- handling the newspapers' promotional competitions for vacations and other prizes -- helped earn him the disparaging nickname Mere Vere.
        But in 1971, when he took over the newspapers from his father, who was suffering from Alzheimer's disease, Lord Rothermere acted boldly and decisively. He closed The Daily Sketch, one of the family's least-successful papers, and appointed David English, its editor and an old friend, as the editor of the ailing Daily Mail. And he reinvented The Daily Mail as a tabloid, going after middle-class women readers with consumer articles and with a regular features section called ''Femail.'' The paper was midway between the nation's quality newspapers and the scandalous tabloids.
        At a time when competition in the Britsh newspaper industry had led to price wars, cost-cutting and layoffs, Lord Rothermere hired more reporters, paid them generous and sometimes exorbitant salaries, and invested heavily in the newspaper.
        In 1980, Lord Rothermere merged his money-losing evening paper, The Evening News, with The Evening Standard, in which he bought a 50 percent stake. (He bought the rest of the paper several years later.) Along the way, his papers began outselling those of his closest rivals The Express, The Daily Star, and The Express on Sunday. ''In 1970 we had two ailing papers and The Express had three successful ones,'' he liked to say. ''But by 1983 we had three successful papers and they had two unsuccessful ones.''
        Though he moved to Paris in 1978 for tax reasons, Lord Rothermere spoke to his London office every day  and could be critical of his own papers, even in public. His editors occasionally picked up competing newspapers, only to find themselves reading uncomplimentary remarks from their own proprietor.
        ''I don't agree with him, and I've told him so,'' Lord Rothermere said several months ago in an interview with The Daily Telegraph, referring to Paul Dacre, the editor of The Daily Mail. ''We've gone too far down-market; there's too much tabloid-y reporting. That kind of thing leads in due course to slovenliness and sensationalism, something reporters use to cover up the fact that they've done no work. I want it to stop.''
        But behind the tough words was a feeling that as long as his papers were financially successful, his editors could do what they liked. When he dramatically switched political allegiance in 1997, becoming a Labor supporter afer a lifetime as a Conservative, Lord Rothermere did not insist that The Daily Mail -- one of Labor's most vociferous opponents -- follow his lead.
        Lord Rothermere was married twice. His first wife, the former Patricia Brooks, was a B-movie actress who became known as Bubbles (a name her husband hated) because of her fondness for Champagne. Though she and Lord Rothermere began living more or less separate lives in 1978, they remained fond of each other and attended official functions together during the 90 or so days each year that he spent in London. Lady Rothermere died on the Riviera in 1992, after taking what was said to be an accidental overdose of sleeping pills. A year later, Lord Rothermere married his longtime companion, Maiko Lee, a former hand model whom he had met at a charity ball in New York in 1976.  He is also survived by three children from his first marriage: Jonathan Harmsworth, the managing director of The Evening Standard and next in line for his father's title, Geraldine Maxwell and Camilla Yeates; a stepdaughter, Sarah Holcroft, and 10 grandchildren.
        Despite a sometime reputation for frivolousness, Lord Rothermere was never frivolous in his analysis of what readers wanted. ''A newspaper should be like the sea: always different, always the same,'' he once said.
      