
        James H. Lavenson, an advertising and marketing expert known for public speeches that were both hilarious and instructive, died Sept. 19 at  Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., following a stroke, his wife, Susan, said. He was 79.
        In 1974, Mr. Lavenson gained attention when, as president of the Plaza Hotel in New York, he restored the Edwardian Room, the high-ceiling dining room with carved wall panels that three years earlier had been renamed the Green Tulip as part of the early 1970's trend in Manhattan to make all things old suddenly modern.
        The restoration drew praise from architecture buffs who considered the Plaza, designed by Henry J. Hardenbergh, to be one of New York's treasures. But it was a desire to increase revenue at the then-struggling hotel that motivated Mr. Lavenson to restore the Edwardian Room, hoping to attract customers tired of similarly sleek dining rooms.
        In a speech to the American Marketing Association, ''Thinking Strawberries,'' Mr. Lavenson articulated the idea that every employee from the waiter to the chambermaid should think of himself as actively selling to customers, an idea well ahead of its time. The speech, which is still in several hotel management textbooks, showed how adding strawberries to the Edwardian Room dessert menu had increased the average meal charge at a time when dieting was a growing trend in Manhattan.
        ''He did a brilliant job with the Plaza because he was able to deal with all the elements to make a success from customers to unions,'' said Roger Sonnabend, chief executive of Sonesta International Hotels. ''And he was active in finding and bringing into hotel management people from Harlem, which was unheard of at the time in major New York hotels.''
        Mr. Lavenson became such a lively speaker that he collected fees for entertaining audiences with his ideas, Mr. Sonnabend said. One was his talk on earning an M.B.W.A. degree in management by walking around.
        The Edwardian Room closed last summer and will not be reopened, a spokeswoman for the hotel, Amy Marmer, said. ''It's empty and the owners are trying to decide what to do with the space,'' she said.
        Mr. Lavenson, a horseman, who told people his middle initial stood for Horse, was born in Philadelphia. He graduated from Williams College in Williamstown, Mass. As a captain in World War II, he was responsible for writing the dog training manual for the Army's Canine Corps. He then joined his father's Philadelphia advertising agency, the Lavenson Bureau.
        In the late 1960's, as an executive with the Hotel Corporation of America, he recommended that it change its name to Sonesta International Hotels, incorporating the names of the founder Ben Sonnabend and his wife, Esther.
        Later he was a senior executive and then president of the Premier Corporation of America, which operated the Sonnabend family's non-hotel properties, which at the time included Hartmann Luggage, Mad magazine and Doxsee Foods, a major clam and shrimp processor.
        In addition to his wife, Susan, of Camden, Me., he is survived by a daughter, Ellen R. Stanclift of Camden, Me.; and four sons, Joel S., of Oakland, Me.; Michael, of Suffern, N.Y.; Peter C., of Wayland, Mass., and Gary Lavenson of Amesbury, Mass.; a brother, Jay, who lives in Austria, and seven grandchildren. His first marriage, to Marian Schatte Lavenson of Greenwich, Conn., ended in divorce.
      