
        Jeffrey A. Moss, a writer and composer whose accomplishments included dreaming up the ''Sesame Street'' characters Cookie Monster and Oscar the Grouch, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Anne Boylan.
        Mr. Moss was perhaps best known for the many songs he created for the Muppets, including ''Rubber Duckie,'' ''I Love Trash'' and ''Captain Vegetable.'' These whimsical ditties became the musical bounce for an educational children's show seen by more than 120 million children in 130 countries.
        ''His wonderful lyrics and music reflected the mood and the style of the show -- fun, energetic, sometimes sentimental and always entertaining,'' said Joan Ganz Cooney, chairwoman of the executive committee and co-founder of Children's Television Workshop, the producer of ''Sesame Street.''
        As head writer and composer-lyricist for the show, he won 14 Emmys and wrote songs for four Grammy-winning recordings. His music and lyrics for ''The Muppets Take Manhattan'' earned him an Academy Award nomination. He was also the author of more than a dozen best-selling books under the ''Sesame Street'' name, including ''The Sesame Street Book of Poetry.''
        He also wrote three popular children's poetry collections, including ''The Butterfly Jar,'' ''The Other Side of the Door'' and ''Bone Poems.'' In addition, he wrote ''Bob and Jack: A Boy and His Yak'' and ''Hieronymus White,'' stories in verse.
        When Mr. Moss helped start ''Sesame Street'' in 1969 with Jim Henson, creator of the Muppets, and the musical director, Joe Raposo, among others, the intention was to appeal to both adults and children. Preschool children could delightedly imbibe the beginnings of reading and arithmetic while adults laughed at the skits and jokes, often performed by famous entertainers.
        ''He could mix the silly and the profound -- not just for children but for adults as well,'' said Deborah Futter, who edited several of his books for Bantam. ''You laughed and you cried, it hit you on so many levels.''
        In an interview in The New York Times five years ago, Mr. Moss explained his approach. ''I look at kids as being us, but younger,'' he said. ''What makes kids laugh is the same as what makes us laugh. And losing something or someone dear to you is also universal. The key is to keep the vocabulary so children can understand it. That way you keep the kids watching and smiling, and it's something you watch yourself.''
        In several more recent interviews, Mr. Moss has said his perspective on his own work broadened in recent years as he watched his son Alexander, now 7, enjoy ''Sesame Street.'' He is also survived by his wife and a stepson, Jonathan Smith.
        Mr. Moss, born in 1942, grew up in Manhattan. He began writing poetry and music at an early age. His father was an actor and his mother a writer, and they filled their home with classical music and Broadway show tunes. He graduated from Princeton University, and was offered two jobs by the Columbia Broadcasting System. One was as a news writer, the other as a production assistant for ''Captain Kangaroo.'' He chose the latter. After six months in the Army, he returned to the show as a writer.
        He was recruited as a writer for ''Sesame Street,'' a new show intended to enrich the imaginations and intellect of children not able to attend preschool. He came up with ideas for characters in the manner of a fiction writer. In the case of Cookie Monster, he studied one of Mr. Henson's Muppets, then known only as Boggle Eyes. He began to see the character as humorous, with a childlike obsession.
        At Cookie Monster's debut rehearsal, the Muppet, played by the puppeteer Frank Oz, said just two words: ''Milk'' and ''COOOOOOOOOKIIIIEEEEEE!'' Colleagues recall falling off their chairs in laughter.
        He also put songs in the mouths of Muppets. ''I Love Trash,'' for instance, became the theme song of Oscar the Grouch, who lives in a garbage can and loathes sunshine. It goes: ''I hate ice cream, I hate smiles. I love trash in great big piles.''
        Another ''Sesame Street'' writer, Christopher Cerf, said Mr. Moss brought integrity even to his silliest writing. ''I go for the silly joke every time,'' Mr. Cerf said.
        Mr. Moss began to write children's poetry when the actress Marlo Thomas asked him to write a piece for a book she was sponsoring, ''Free to Be a Family.'' He wrote a poem called ''The Entertainer'' about a girl who feels put upon because her parents often ask her to perform at parties. Other poems then flowed, and before long he had 90. They became ''The Butterfly Jar.''
        One poem in the collection is called ''Meeting Strangers.'' It is narrated by a shy monster character who epitomizes the fear of not being liked by others. ''They act like a monster when I'm the one who's new,'' he moans.
        It was this ability to strike resonant chords that those who knew Mr. Moss mentioned yesterday. His literary agent, Esther Newberg, remembered the awe with which children at the American Museum of Natural History regarded him when he read from his book about dinosaurs. A friend mentioned how today's Princeton students, all weaned on ''Sesame Street,'' would crowd around a piano and join him in belting out ''Rubber Duckie.''
        Mr. Cerf said that the day he died Mr. Moss, who had hidden his cancer for years, was writing a new song for ''Sesame Street.'' The title was ''You and You and Me.'' It describes Elmo, Ernie and Telly trying to figure out who should go through a door first. ''Jeff wrote from the heart and still was funny,'' Mr. Cerf said.
        Correction:  September 29, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Jeffrey A. Moss, a writer and composer who contributed characters and songs to ''Sesame Street,'' omitted two survivors. They are his mother, Stella Moss of Manhattan, and a sister, Andrea Moss End of Westchester County.
        Correction:  September 29, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Jeffrey A. Moss, a writer and composer who contributed characters and songs to ''Sesame Street,'' omitted two survivors. They are his mother, Stella Moss of Manhattan, and a sister, Andrea Moss End of Westchester County.
      