
        Archie M. Smith Jr., a Virginia winemaker who had the rare distinction of succeeding in a field where Thomas Jefferson failed, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 78.
        His son, Archie M. Smith 3d, said the cause was Lou Gehrig's disease -- amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
        Archie M. Smith Jr., whose 58-acre Meredyth Vineyards is just a few counties from Jefferson's Monticello estate, was one of a small group of pioneering winemakers who fulfilled Jefferson's agrarian goal of making a good wine in Virginia that provides a livelihood for farmers and their families.
        ''What Jefferson didn't know was how to grow grapes,'' said James M. Gabler, a Baltimore lawyer and expert on both wine and Jefferson. ''Now they know different kinds of grapes, know weather and know soil.''
        Meredyth Vineyards, which Mr. Smith started in 1975 with the boom in American wine consumption, now makes 35,000 cases a year, which is small in comparison with many California vineyards. But it represents an achievement for an industry that barely existed a generation ago.
        Archie Smith 3d said, ''We are part of the new wave -- we were the first farm winery in Virginia -- where you grow your own grapes, make the wine and sell it.''
        The elder Mr. Smith graduated from the University of Virginia in 1949 with a major in psychology, his son said, and became a farmer, raising cattle, corn and hay. Before college, he was was a Marine Corps combat flier in the Pacific in World War II and was in the first wave of F4U Corsair fighter planes that flew from aircraft carriers and attacked Japanese positions on Guadalcanal. He was injured and awarded a Purple Heart after his plane crashed in the battle for Okinawa.
        At first Mr. Smith's farming efforts seemed headed for failure. ''We sat around the kitchen table one Saturday night and agreed we weren't going to make it,'' Archie Smith 3d said, adding that his father was concerned that they would be driven out by the increasing suburbanization of the Virginia countryside. The result was Meredyth Vineyards.
        Barbara J. Payton, a wine promotion specialist in Virginia's Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, said that by 1979, the state's wine industry amounted to only seven vineyards, including Meredyth. Today there are 52 Virginia wineries.
        In 1979, land devoted to vineyards was just 286 acres. Now the total is 1,500 acres, and 205,000 cases with a retail value of $24 million were sold last year, Ms. Payton said.
        ''Meredyth Vineyards is one of the founders of the industry and set the course for the modern era of winemaking in Virginia,'' she added.
        Mr. Gabler said that Virginia's wines, like New York's, were better in the whites. ''I don't think much of the reds,'' he said.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Smith is survived by his wife of 55 years, Josephine Watters Smith; another  son, Robert B. of Kensington, Md.; a daughter, Susan M. of Middleburg, and three grandchildren.
      