
        Dr. Edward Christopher Whitmont, a Jungian psychoanalyst and homeopathic physician who introduced many Americans to the fundamentals of Jungian psychology through his writing and teaching, died on Monday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer of the thymus, his family said.
        A founding member of the International Association for Analytical Psychology and the C. G. Jung Institute of New York, Dr. Whitmont spent much of his life exploring the territory where mind, body and spirit intersect, synthesizing and expanding upon ideas and methods drawn from diverse areas of psychology, medicine, science and religion.
        His 1969 book, ''The Symbolic Quest,'' was the first to apply the Swiss psychologist Carl Gustav Jung's writings on archetypes to the therapist's daily work with patients. The book became essential for clinicians seeking an understanding of Jung. A later book, ''Psyche and Substance'' (1980), explored the connections between Jungian theory and homeopathic medicine, and in ''Return of the Goddess'' (1982), Dr. Whitmont emphasized the role of the feminine in human psychology.
        He was also known for his creative approach to working with unconscious material, the images found in dreams and other areas of mental life. ''He instructed a whole generation of Jungian analysts in the dynamic approach to dreams,'' said Beverly Zabriskie, a Jungian analyst in Manhattan.
        Born in Vienna in 1912, Dr. Whitmont received his medical degree from the University of Vienna in 1934, then immigrated to the United States four years later. His interest in Jungian psychology was sparked by a patient who sought Dr. Whitmont's help because ''a dream told me to come to you.'' His interest in homeopathy sprang from an acquaintance with the homeopathist Elizabeth Wright Hubbard. Dr. Whitmont later traveled to Switzerland to meet Jung, and they corresponded.
        Dr. Whitmont continued teaching at the institute and writing until his death.
        He is survived by his longtime companion, Sylvia Brinton Perera; four sons, Peter Whitmont of Boulder, Colo., Dr. Martin Whitmont of Bozeman, Mont., Dr. Andrew Whitmont of Yakima, Wash., and Dr. Ronald Whitmont of Amenia, N.Y., two daughters, Cathy Sarah Schaleger of St. Paul and Deborah Massell of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      