
        Joe Miller's pal was born to play soccer, and he played it with such flair that 80 years later Mr. Miller could raise the hairs on a listener's neck simply by describing his friend's powerful kick.
        By the time Mr. Miller, a Bronx native, got to know him in history class at the old High School of Commerce in Manhattan, his pal, a big German guy, was well on his way to being converted to football, proving good enough to win a scholarship to Columbia University.
        Mr. Miller was a pretty fair athlete himself, but baseball was his sport, which is why Mr. Miller, a retired industrialist who was 95 when he died on Sept. 3 in Tucson, Ariz., was remembered less for his brilliant business career than for a high school friendship and the day in 1917 when he and some of his high school teammates got to talking about Mr. Miller's pal, Lou Gehrig, and it dawned on them that if Gehrig was that good at soccer and football, then surely they could teach him to play baseball.
        They did, too, and with such spectacular success that after Mr. Miller retired to Tucson in 1972, an affable man who amassed an impressive art collection and became a benefactor of the University of Arizona, he talked more about baseball than about his pioneering work as an industrial chemist.
        It was not that Mr. Miller, a Columbia graduate who earned a master's degree in chemical engineering from Yale and worked for du Pont before starting his own industrial paint company, the Pyrolac Corporation, in Hawthorne, N.J., was ashamed that he made a fortune with a protective coating for bathroom fixtures. Nor was he ashamed that he made an even larger fortune developing a metallic paint that made it possible for cars to blossom into a rainbow of hues other than black.
        And he was certainly proud enough that he developed the lacquer Jackie Kennedy applied to White House antiques and that a heat-resistant coating he developed protected the Apollo spacecraft on trips to the Moon.
        But for all his business success, Mr. Miller never for one moment forgot that nothing was more important than baseball.
        A pitcher, Mr. Miller played for Columbia and was so impressive in semi-pro ball that he was offered a contract by the Yankees. He turned it down, partly because he wanted to concentrate on his studies and partly because by the time he left high school, he had, by his own gleeful account later, done about as much as he could for the national pastime.
        Now it is true that Gehrig had played stickball as a kid, but when he reached the Commerce annex on West 46th Street, baseball was an alien sport.
        Or, as Mr. Miller put it in an interview last year: ''Lou didn't know how to play baseball, but we thought we'd teach him. He didn't want to play at first, but after about a year, he picked it up quickly.''
        Since Gehrig had natural power, teaching him the game was the easy part. The trick was to get Gehrig, who did, after all, have a storied tendency to stick with whatever he started, to take up baseball in the first place.
        With Gehrig under old world pressure from his mother and feeling his own dogged sense of responsibility to shun athletics and all other extracurricular activities in favor of his accounting studies, it took the combined wheedling of Mr. Miller, the other Commerce players and the coach to persuade him to take his nose out of his books and put his eye on the ball.
        (In the end it was his bookkeeping teacher, a baseball fan, who did the trick, threatening to flunk him if he did not go out for the team.)
        Rocky as he was at first, Gehrig, whose fielding skills were still notoriously deficient when he joined the Yankees organization in 1923, proved such a quick study and had such acute eyesight that by the time Commerce won the New York City public school championship in 1920 he was already being called the Babe Ruth of high school baseball in New York.
        He added a national cachet to the sobriquet on June 26, 1920, when, in a celebrated showdown at Cubs Park between Commerce and the Chicago city champions, Lane Tech, Gehrig iced a 12-6 Commerce victory with a towering grand slam home run in the ninth inning, becoming the only high school player to knock one out of what is now known as Wrigley Field.
        (For all that, at a time when college baseball was an afterthought, it was Gehrig's football prowess that landed him a scholarship to Columbia.)
        Mr. Miller, who played semi-pro ball in his student years against several baseball greats, including Satchel Paige, may not, as he told his wife, have once struck out Babe Ruth, but his friendship with Gehrig was real.
        He attended Gehrig's wedding, helped him pick out his first house, was a frequent dugout guest in Gehrig's 2,130 consecutive game streak and was at Yankee Stadium for the stricken Gehrig's famous ''luckiest man'' farewell in 1939.
        After his role in discovering and honing Gehrig's baseball talents, it is understandable that Mr. Miller, who clearly had an eye for quality, would be just as particular in his taste for women.
        After a long, high-spirited and persistent pursuit, Mr. Miller finally found one worth keeping who was willing to take him and his baseball memories to heart: a Tucson widow named Ruth Reed. She was 70 and he was 90 when they married five years ago.
        As his only survivor, she still has his most treasured possession, the Bill Doak model baseball glove he got at Schultz Sporting Goods when he was 14 and teaching Lou Gehrig how to play baseball.
      