
        Dr. John F. Prudden, a surgeon and researcher who used medicines made from the cartilage of sharks, reptiles and cows as well as the chitin of lobster or shrimp shells to help heal wounds and treat a range of diseases, died on Sept. 12 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount  Kisco, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y.
        The cause was acute leukemia, his family said.
        As a professor of surgery at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan in the 1950's, Dr. Prudden used bovine cartilage to speed the healing of open wounds like bedsores -- known as decubitus ulcers -- which can result from poor circulation or immobilization.
        Later, he found that bovine cartilage contained a protein that stimulated the immune system and inhibited the growth of blood vessels that tumors depended upon for nourishment. Thus, he believed, the cartilage could be used to starve a cancerous tumor by suppressing its blood supply. He also found that use of bovine cartilage increased the number of natural killer cells, like T-cells, and other cells that could block replication of cancer cells.
        In 1970, Dr. Prudden founded Lescarden Inc., a biotechnology company, and was its chief executive officer for 22 years. Lescarden developed products with bovine cartilage to treat diseases like psoriasis and arthritis.
        Dr. Prudden also reported research that used cartilage treatment to help osteoarthritis patients, and he believed that it could be used to treat cancer and other diseases that depend on the development of new blood vessels.
        He received the Linus Pauling Scientist of the Year award in 1995 from the Cancer Treatment Research Foundation for his decades of work with bovine cartilage applications.
        He was born in Fostoria, Ohio, and received his B.A. from Harvard College in 1942, his M.D. from Harvard Medical School in 1945 and his doctorate in medical science, specializing in biochemistry, from Columbia University in 1950. During the Korean War, he was a captain in the Army Medical Corps and was chief of the laboratory division and physiology section of the surgical research unit at Fort Sam Houston, Tex.
        Survivors include his wife of 44 years, Carla; three daughters, Pamela Clark of Greenwich, Conn., Elaine Rodriguez of Fort Monroe, Va., and Sarah Prudden of Bloomingburg, N.Y.; three sons, Dr. Peter, of Fort Collins, Colo., John Jr., of Chappaqua, N.Y., and James, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      