
        Sam Locke, a writer of plays, books, theater sketches and television scripts whose roots hark back to the golden days of radio, died on Sept. 18 at a convalescent center in San Diego. He was 81.
        Mr. Locke's credits include scripts for such classic radio programs as ''Grand Central Station,'' the ''crossroads of a million private lives,'' and ''Inner Sanctum,'' which opened with an eerily squeaking door. He wrote sketches for such comedians as Garry Moore, Red Buttons and Ed Wynn, as well as episodes for hit television series, among them ''36-24-73'' for ''McHale's Navy,'' ''Mooney the Monkey'' for ''The Lucy Show'' and ''Hot Watch'' for ''All in the Family.''
        His screenplays tended to take place on beaches. They included ''Girls on the Beach'' for Paramount in 1964 and ''Beach Ball'' for the same studio the next year.
        Mr. Locke's one experience with a nonwriting job was a two-week stint at Macy's during the Christmas season when he was a student at City College in New York. He hated it.
        ''He vowed never again to do any job that was not writing,'' said Esther Jane Paul, a friend who sometimes collaborated with him on writing projects.
        Norman Corwin, one of the best-known radio writers, remembered Mr. Locke as a member of ''the writers' table'' at several Hollywood studios, forever eager to wittily bite the hands of the tycoons who fed him. ''The writers shared a common hate of the dinosaurs of the industry like Louis B. Mayer,'' Mr. Corwin said.
        For Mr. Corwin, Mr. Locke represented the sort of journeyman professionalism that makes the entertainment world spin.
        The son of a cantor, Mr. Locke was born in Peabody, Mass., but grew up in New York City, which he considered his hometown even 40 years after moving to California to write for the new medium of television. ''Television was kind of a comedown,'' Ms. Paul said. ''He did it because it paid so well.''
        Despite his success writing for radio, television and entertainers, writing for his first love, the theater, was hardly the same sort of gravy train. Only one of his plays reached Broadway, ''Fair Game,'' which starred Sam Levene. It opened in November 1957 to lackluster reviews, despite its spirited attempt to capture the gritty flavor of the garment district.
        In his book ''Laughing Matters,'' published this year, Larry Gelbart tells of unsuccessfully trying to turn ''Fair Game'' into a movie.
        ''Continuous Performance,'' a play about a sex surrogate, which Mr. Locke wrote and produced in Los Angeles, opened and closed quickly about 10 years ago. But he had more success with ''Women With Red Hair,'' of which he was a co-author. The play ran off and on for more than 30 years in such cities as Los Angeles, Rome and Madrid.
        In addition to his Broadway play, Mr. Locke, with John LaTouche, wrote a Broadway musical, ''The Vamp,'' which starred Carol Channing in a 1955 production. Brooks Atkinson criticized it as scattered. ''Miss Channing's big, baby-blue eyes stare through the follies of this huge show as if she could not believe what she is seeing,'' he wrote.
        In another book, ''Betty Garrett and Other Songs: A Life on Stage and Screen,'' Ms. Garrett tells how Mr. Locke introduced her to her husband, the actor Larry Parks. She also recounts the comic sketch that Mr. Locke fashioned for her in which she is interviewed as her footprints are captured in concrete at Graumann's Chinese Theater. First created for a dramatic group in New York, the Flatbush Arts Theater, the sketch was used by the Actors' Lab in Los Angeles and later by other troupes.
        Mr. Locke served in the Army Air Corps during World War II and later worked on a film to help implement the Marshall Plan in Europe. He wrote fiction and nonfiction for The Saturday Evening Post, True and other magazines. In the early 1980's he wrote a small humorous book, ''How to Survive Your Doctor's Care.''
        Mr. Locke, who was twice divorced, leaves no immediate survivors.
        Both Mr. Corwin and Ms. Paul suggested that his productivity would have been even greater had he not been targeted during the McCarthy era as a frequenter of rallies and parties held by left-wing organizations. Both said he had been gray-listed, meaning he was neither banned nor fully accepted.
        With a laugh, Ms. Paul said, ''The truth is he went to those meetings to meet girls.''
      