
        Julian Allen, an illustrator best known for realistic visual essays on contemporary subjects like the Watergate scandal, the Israeli raid to free hostages at the airport in Entebbe, Uganda, and the gangs of the South Bronx, died on Monday at a hospice in Baltimore. He was 55 and lived in Baltimore.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his wife, Victoria, said.
        Mr. Allen collaborated with the writer Bruce Wagner on the noir comic strip ''Wild Palms,'' which appeared in Details magazine and became a network television miniseries produced by Oliver Stone. In 1994, he was commissioned by the  United States Postal Service to create a series of stamps featuring blues singers.
        Mr. Allen was a freelance illustrator for the British periodicals Radio Times and The Sunday Times of London, when he was hired as a staff artist by New York magazine to illustrate events related to the Watergate matter. Drawing from testimony, he created pictures depicting  President Richard M. Nixon's meetings with indicted White House aides.
        In addition, his illustrations accompanying H. R. Haldeman's 1978 account of Watergate that was published in Newsweek, including one showing a distraught President Nixon sipping coffee in a Washington coffee shop where he used to secretly take refuge, provided a dimension to the scandal that captured wide attention.
        During the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, Mr. Allen was sent by New York magazine with the writer Nora Ephron to cover the campaign in the Sinai desert. While sketching his observations, he was wounded in the leg. From his hospital bed he drew a series of portraits of wounded Israeli and Arab soldiers for the magazine.
        In 1976, he was assigned by New York magazine to depict the attack on Entebbe Airport in Uganda by Israeli commandos whose mission was to free hostages held by terrorists.
        Mr. Allen was born in Cambridge, England, in 1942, and studied at the Central College of Art in London. His work has appeared in many books, magazines and newspapers on both sides of the Atlantic, including Queen, Town, Nova, Esquire, The Observer, The Sunday Times of London and various sections of The New York Times, including the magazine, the Book Review, the Arts & Leisure section and the Op-Ed page.
        He taught editorial illustration at Parson's School of Design in New York for more than 20 years. In 1996 he became chairman of the Illustration Department at the Maryland Institute, College of Art in Baltimore.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children from previous marriages, a daughter, Holly of Claverack, N.Y., and a son, Rubin of London; his mother, Joan Scutt, and a brother Geoff, both of London.
      