
        James Goldman, who wrote the Broadway play ''The Lion in Winter'' and the book for the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies,'' died yesterday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        He suffered a heart attack in the lobby of his apartment building and was taken to Lenox Hill Hospital. He never regained consciousness, said his wife, Barbara.
        Mr. Goldman was a screenwriter and novelist as well as playwright. In 1968 he won an Academy Award for his adaptation of ''The Lion in Winter.'' A revival of that play is scheduled to open in February at the Roundabout Theater starring Laurence Fishburne and Stockard Channing.
        A historical play about the 12th-century English ruler Henry II and his estranged wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and their battle over succession, ''The Lion in Winter'' had only a brief run on Broadway in 1966, though the leading roles were played by Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris. Two years later, the play was turned into a popular movie starring Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn, who shared the Academy Award for best actress with Barbra Streisand (for ''Funny Girl'').
        Although Mr. Goldman covered a wide variety of subjects, history was a specialty. In addition to ''The Lion in Winter,'' he wrote the screenplay for ''Nicholas and Alexandra'' (1971) and a novel, ''Myself as Witness,'' about King John, who ruled England in the 13th century. Two years ago his play about Tolstoy was presented in London.
        He was born in Chicago and graduated from the University of Chicago. During postgraduate work at Columbia University he was drafted into the Army. After he was discharged he decided to become a playwright.
        His play ''They Might Be Giants'' was produced by Joan Littlewood in London in 1961 and was later turned into a movie starring George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward.
        With his younger brother, William, a novelist and screenwriter, he wrote ''Blood, Sweat & Stanley Poole,'' a comedy about life in the Army. It was produced on Broadway in 1961. The following year the Goldman brothers collaborated on the book for the John Kander musical ''A Family Affair,'' with James Goldman also writing the lyrics with Mr. Kander.
        In 1965 Mr. Sondheim asked Mr. Goldman if he had an idea for a musical. Mr. Goldman said he had thought about writing one about a reunion, perhaps of graduates from a college like Vassar, until he read a newspaper item about a reunion of Ziegfeld Follies actresses. In its earliest phase, the show was a murder mystery called ''The Girls Upstairs.'' Gradually it evolved into ''Follies.''
        In 1966, Mr. Goldman and Mr. Sondheim also collaborated on a television musical, ''Evening Primrose,'' based on a John Collier story about people living secretly in a department store.
        ''Follies,'' which opened on Broadway in 1971, was, in Mr. Sondheim's words, ''a dream play, a memory piece.'' The show, produced by Harold Prince and directed by Mr. Prince and Michael Bennett, won the New York Drama Critics Circle award as best musical and ran for 522 performances. It came to be regarded as a milestone in the composer's career. Subsequently it was revived in a concert version in New York and was fully staged in 1987 in London, receiving the Evening Standard Award and the Olivier Award as best musical.
        A revival of ''Follies'' presented last spring at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J., had been a Broadway possibility. Mr. Goldman was also writing the book and lyrics for a new musical (with Larry Grossman), based on the novel ''Tom Jones.''
        His other screenplays included ''Robin and Marian'' (Richard Lester's Robin Hood movie starring Sean Connery and Audrey Hepburn) and ''White Nights'' (with Mikhail Baryshnikov). He wrote four novels, ''Waldorf,'' ''The Man From Greek and Roman,'' ''Myself as Witness'' and ''Fulton County.'' He adapted several classics for television, including ''Oliver Twist'' and ''Anna Karenina.''
        In addition to his wife and brother, both of Manhattan, he is survived by two children, Julia and Matthew, from a previous marriage.
      