
        Lord Sainsbury of Drury Lane, who revolutionized the retail food industry in Britain, transforming his family's grocery business into the country's first modern, self-service supermarket empire and forever changing the shopping habits of the average Briton, died on Oct. 21. He was 96.
        When Alan Sainsbury, as he was called then, and his brother, Robert, took over the family business in 1938, it was a chain of small grocery stores run in the traditional way: the customer selected the products and the grocer took them off the shelves and packed them up. But, inspired by a trip to America in which he saw his first supermarket, Lord Sainsbury decided that the future lay in self-service.
        It was a breathtaking idea, but not everyone was thrilled to be on the cutting edge of grocery innovation. In 1950, when the first new-style store opened, in Croydon, Lord Sainsbury stood at the front door, handing out wire shopping baskets. One customer threw her basket back at him in a fury. Another customer, the wife of a judge, shouted that she would not do the job of a shop assistant. Meanwhile, competitors ridiculed the idea and said it would never catch on.
        ''How wrong they were,'' Lord Sainsbury said later, ''and how lucky we were that they were wrong.''
        Alan John Sainsbury was born in Hampstead, London, in 1902, into a family that had been in the grocery business for more than 30 years. From its humble beginning as a shop selling dairy products on Drury Lane in London, the first Sainsbury's had grown to a chain of 250 stores across the south of England. Lord Sainsbury's father, John, served as the company's chairman until he died in 1956, though he ceded much of his power to his sons in 1938.
        Lord Sainsbury joined the business in 1921, explaining, ''My mother said it would break my father's heart if I didn't.'' He served behind the counter at the Boscombe branch, using an assumed name, and worked in the dairy department under the supervision of his uncles, Arthur and Alfred. At that time, only family members were allowed to buy eggs and milk for the stores.
        He moved quickly up the ranks, serving with his brother as joint general manager. Lord Sainsbury, then known by everyone as ''Mr. Alan,'' was in charge of the retail side of the business; his brother handled the finances and administration. After World War II, Lord Sainsbury traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission to learn about frozen food. It was then that he had an epiphany. Confronted by his first supermarket, he said, he was ''thrilled and stimulated by the potentiality of self-service trading.''
        Despite lean times in the postwar years, when widespread shortages and strict rationing depressed the food industry, the brothers went on to preside over an enormous expansion, opening new stores that were bigger and more sensitive to customer convenience than ever before. Lord Sainsbury brought in fresh produce and frozen foods; revolutionized packaging so that the product became the ''silent salesman''; promoted the company's ''own-label'' foods, which were sold under the Sainsbury's brand, and pushed the concept of low-cost, high-quality foods under the slogan, ''Good Food Costs Less at Sainsbury's.'' When it went public in 1973, the company was worth $:117 million; today, sales in the chain of supermarkets exceed $:12 billion ($20 billion) a year. A perennial loser as a political candidate, Lord Sainsbury was made a life peer in 1962, enabling him to join the House of Lords. Initially a member of the Labor Party, he switched to the Liberal Democratic Party but remained fiercely independent.
        He was an active participant in the business of the House of Lords -- ''I'm part of the furniture,'' he said  -- as well as working as an advocate for the food retail industry and serving on numerous food-related public committees and government advisory boards. He also campaigned for social welfare and liberal causes and gave generously to a range of charities, particularly those helping underprivileged children.
        A childhood of rejection from the British upper classes -- his mother was Jewish and his father was ''in trade,'' as Britons of the time disparagingly called even grocery magnates -- left him with a lifelong distrust of snobbery and of the British class system and a strong belief in the philanthropic uses of wealth.
        Although he retired in 1967, when he was appointed life president of Sainsbury's, Lord Sainsbury never stopped going to his office at the firm, which had changed almost beyond recognition in his more than 75 years in the business. When he started, Sainsbury's carried 50 items and made deliveries by horse and cart; now its stores stock more than 23,000 products and accept orders over the Internet.
        Married in 1925, Lord Sainsbury divorced his wife 14 years later and married again in 1944. He outlived both wives. He is survived by three sons and a daughter and by their children and grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 31, 1998, Saturday  A picture on Thursday with an obituary of Lord Sainsbury of Drury Lane was published in error. It showed his son Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover.
      