
        George W. Irving Jr., a food-safety expert who led a major Federal study that found most food additives to be safe but recommended limits on added salt, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87.
        In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon asked the Food and Drug Administration to review ''the GRAS list'' of food substances -- those classified as ''generally recognized as safe.'' Dr. Irving, a biochemist who led the Agricultural Research Service, was asked to set up a national panel of experts to do the study. Working as a research associate at the Federation of American Societies of Experimental Biology, he set up the panel in 1971, and the F.D.A. began reporting its findings in 1980.
        The panel recommended restrictions on added salt, four modified starches used as thickening agents, and lactic acid and calcium lactate, which had been used in infant formulas. It concluded that added salt should be tightly restricted, and prohibited in some foods, saying reductions would help the 10 percent to 30 percent of the population with a tendency toward high blood pressure. The panel said more research was needed on caffeine, a stimulant found in coffee, tea and cola beverages.
        Even though Dr. Irving took an analytical view of food in his work, he was relaxed about food at the dinner table, said his wife, Frances C. Irving, and drank one cup of caffeinated coffee a day.
        ''His mother had served him doughnuts, pies with lard, plum pudding with suet,'' Mrs. Irving said, ''so he was a moderate about his food.''
        George Irving was born in Caribou, Me. He received a master's degree in chemistry and, in 1936, a doctorate in biochemistry from George Washington University.
        In 1938, he joined the research staff of the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, in Manhattan. He joined the United States Department of Agriculture in 1942, first at its laboratory in New Orleans and then at the Agricultural Research Center in Beltsville, Md. In 1964, Dr. Irving became chief of the Agricultural Research Service, which operates laboratories nationwide and coordinates research at universities and other institutions. He retired in 1971. Later, he was president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Irving is survived by a daughter, Mary Constance Irving Fitzpatrick of Cape Coral, Fla.; a son, Dr. George W. Irving 3d of San Antonio; a sister, Dawn Dollard of Mesa, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      