
        Anthony J. Celebrezze, a storied Cleveland mayor who transformed the city's skyline in the 1950's and went on to spend three productive years as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the 1960's and three low-key decades as a Federal appellate judge, died on Thursday at a hospice in Cleveland. He was 88 and a founder of a far-flung Ohio political dynasty.
        Judge Celebrezze's family said the cause was cancer.
        For all the pride he took in the accomplishments of his nine activist years as Mayor of Cleveland, Judge Celebrezze later admitted that his most sweeping achievements came during his brief service in the Kennedy and Johnson Cabinets.
        He was appointed by President John F. Kennedy in July 1962, the first Italian-American to serve in a Presidential Cabinet. He remained in the Cabinet until August 1965, when he submitted his resignation to President Lyndon B. Johnson. In that time, Mr. Celebrezze helped shepherd more than a dozen major New Frontier and Great Society bills through Congress, including the Medicare Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Water Pollution Control Act, the Clean Air Act and the law creating the Head Start program.
        For all that, Mr. Celebrezze's heart remained in Cleveland. In his 30 years as a member of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, based in Cincinnati, Judge Celebrezze, who had senior status at his retirement in 1995, maintained an office in the Federal Courthouse in Cleveland, a city where he was regarded with something akin to awe.
        That was hardly surprising, since throughout his career Judge Celebrezze maintained a reputation as both an urban visionary and a hard-nosed, hardworking and honest politician whose very life seemed to epitomize a cherished American myth of triumph over poverty.
        The man who began his political career in Cleveland as the self-proclaimed ''boy from the slums'' was not born in the United States. The son of an Italian immigrant who never made more than 26 cents an hour as a railroad track walker, Mr. Celebrezze, the middle child of 13, was born on Sept. 4, 1910, in Anzi, Italy. His hometown was a rocky mountain village in the province of Lucania, on the instep of the Italian boot, where his family had repaired to sit out the depression of 1908.
        As Judge Celebrezze later recalled, growing up in a Cleveland slum across the street from a house of prostitution and an opium den instilled in him the idea that things could be made better, as they were years later when the neighborhood was cleared to make way for a college as part of a vast urban development program developed in his years as mayor.
        From the age of 6 he joined his older brothers and sisters as a shoeshine boy and newspaper hawker on a busy downtown street corner considered such a choice location that they had to fight off others seeking to displace their family monopoly. Long after the children had grown, Clevelanders knew the intersection as Celebrezze Corner.
        After working his way through local colleges in Cleveland as a boxer, railroad laborer and freight truck driver, Judge Celebrezze obtained a law degree from Ohio Northern University in Ada in 1936. He worked a while for the Ohio Bureau of Unemployment Compensation, then entered private practice, which he maintained, with time out for service in the Navy in World War II, until he began his political career with election to the Ohio State Senate in 1950.
        Widely regarded as the most effective Democratic member of the Republican-controlled legislature, Judge Celebrezze mastered an amazing range of specialties and handily won re-election in 1962, although his impatience, blunt style and outspoken ways alienated some Democratic powers in Cleveland.
        Then an older brother, Frank, who had become a Municipal Court judge, organized a ''Draft Tony for Mayor'' campaign. Campaigning against the Democratic machine as a maverick who could not be bought, Judge Celebrezze was swept into office in 1953. Though initially dismissed as a lightweight by many, he helped transform the city and was repeatedly re-elected by increasing margins.
        A tight man with a public dollar, he won a national reputation for his accomplishments and was elected president of the American Municipal Association (now the National League of Cities) in 1958 and president of the United States Conference of Mayors in 1962. However, he lost a bid for governor in 1958.
        He also campaigned hard for John F. Kennedy in 1960, but turned down an offer of a judgeship after Kennedy's election, saying he had more to do in Cleveland. In 1962, however, while serving an unprecedented fifth term as mayor, he accepted appointment as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare.
        Judge Celebrezze was given major credit for a range of important legislation, most notably in creating Medicare. But living in Washington on a $25,000 salary proved such a personal hardship that after running up $30,000 in debts, he asked President Johnson to name him to the bench in Ohio. The President swiftly obliged, naming him to the Sixth Circuit, which covers Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee.
        As a grand old man of Ohio politics, Judge Celebrezze, whose son, Anthony Jr., served as state Attorney General and whose grandson, Anthony 3d, is now running for Franklin County Court Clerk in Columbus, was a highly sought-after speaker in Ohio and elsewhere.
        True to form, the man who began his political career proclaiming he could not be bought refused to accept fees for his speaking engagements.
        In addition to his son and grandson, Judge Celebrezze is survived by his wife, Ann; three daughters, Jean Anne Porto of Washington, Susan Marie Sullivan of Boston and Mildred Ragucci of Cleveland; two brothers, Salvatore and John, of the Cleveland area, and nine other grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 4, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Anthony J. Celebrezze, a former Mayor of Cleveland who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the 1960's, misidentified a survivor, Mildred Ragucci. She is a sister, not a daughter.
      