
        Philip Grushkin, a book designer whose work made him the standard-bearer throughout the publishing industry, died on Sept. 25 at Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Englewood, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure, his daughter, Dena G. Florczyk, said.
        Over five decades, Mr. Grushkin designed hundreds of books for publishers including Alfred A. Knopf, Random House, Abbeville and Harry N. Abrams, where he worked as art director during the 1960's when the company came to prominence as a leading art book publisher. He then formed his own company, Philip Grushkin Incorporated, working in a third-floor studio and darkroom in his home, surrounded by airbrush equipment, gadgets, pens, rules and thousands of pieces of paper assembled in piles. His life was literally books, said his son, Paul, noting that some 10,000 volumes lined the walls of the Grushkins' home.
        Yet, he was an invisible presence, his work evident only to a book's author, the publisher's editorial and design staff, the printer and the bindery. Among the books considered exemplary examples of his art are ''History of Art,'' by H. W. Janson; ''A History of Far Eastern Art,'' by Sherman E. Lee, and ''Atlas of Human Anatomy,'' by Frank H. Netter.
        Growing up in Brooklyn, Mr. Grushkin discovered art at an early age. He studied at Cooper Union in Manhattan and then became the star pupil of the master book designer George Salter. Like Salter, Mr. Grushkin taught his art to others, first at Cooper Union, then at New York University, the University of Virginia and Radcliffe College. Hand-lettering was his mantra and muse. A computer, he argued, obliterated all that felt alive.
        But in the mid-1990's, Mr. Grushkin discovered that no publisher would accept a finished book design except on a computer disk. In six months he taught himself how to design full books on a computer.
        In addition to his daughter, Dena, of Teaneck, N.J., and his son Paul of Pinole, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Jean; another son, Jonas of Durango, Colo., two brothers, Stanley of Virginia Beach, Va., and Daniel of Miami, and six grandchildren.
      