
        Mark Belanger, the smooth-fielding Baltimore Oriole shortstop of the 1970's who won eight Gold Glove awards, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Belanger, who lived in New York, was 54.
        He developed pneumonia after having suffered from cancer, according to the Major League Baseball Players Association, for whom Belanger had worked since his playing days ended in 1982.
        He wasn't much of a hitter -- his career batting average was .228 and he had 20 homers in 18 seasons -- but Belanger was the premier fielder among the American League shortstops of his era. Displaying excellent range, quick hands and a strong arm, he captured the Gold Glove award in 1969 and 1971 and then won it for six consecutive years, beginning in 1973.
        Signed by the Orioles for a $35,000 bonus out of Pittsfield (Mass.) High School, Belanger sparkled in his first professional season, in 1962. ''When I first managed Mark at Bluefield in the Rookie League, I could see he was a natural,'' Billy Hunter, a former major league infielder and later an Oriole coach, would recall. ''At 18, there wasn't much anyone could teach him about playing shortstop. If anything, he was too smooth.''
        In high school, Belanger considered himself better at basketball than baseball, and he later said that his ability to move so well laterally stemmed partly from basketball, where he reacted instinctively. He also credited Ron Hansen, a Baltimore shortstop in the early 1960's, with helping him get a jump on batted balls. ''He taught me to stand up straight and then take a few short steps in as the ball is pitched,'' Belanger explained.
        Belanger played with the Orioles from 1965 to 1981 and appeared in four World Series. In the early 1970's, he was part of an outstanding infield that had Brooks Robinson at third, Davey Johnson at second and Boog Powell at first. He was a link in an Oriole tradition of superb shortstops, taking over for Luis Aparicio and giving way to Cal Ripken.
        Belanger felt that his Oriole career ended the day in September 1981 when he publicly criticized Manager Earl Weaver. ''I ripped Earl for not managing basic baseball,'' he said. ''I said that I thought he'd lost a lot of his managing prowess and that it was not something that had just happened.''
        He said that soon after that, General Manager Hank Peters told him that the club ''had decided to go with young kids'' and did not plan to sign him. The Orioles did, however, give him a night in his honor before he left as a free agent.
        He played for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1982, then retired.
        Belanger had been the Orioles' player representative and was among four players who negotiated alongside the union staff, headed by Marvin Miller, in the 1981 strike.
        ''This has been an education,'' he said during the talks, ''and I may be able to use some of it. I have had a course in negotiating -- free, but expensive, if you know what I mean.''
        Belanger put his education to use upon retiring as a player and had been a special assistant to the union's current executive director, Donald Fehr. He was a liaison to the players, gathered data on player contracts and planned the union's annual executive board meetings.
        He is survived by his wife, Virginia; two sons, Robert and Richard; his parents, Edward and Marie Belanger; a brother, Al, and two sisters, Jeanne Heil and Linda Thornton.
      