
        Eugene L. McCabe, a management consultant who founded and was president of North General Hospital, a thriving, minority-operated community hospital in Harlem, died there yesterday. He was 61.
        The cause was breast cancer, his family said.
        ''He was indefatigable in putting it together,'' said Mario M. Cuomo, who, as Governor, approved many of the grants and loans to build North General. ''His strength was his will and his total commitment.''
        North General, a 200-bed hospital on 121st Street and Madison Avenue, is the only minority-operated hospital in the state. Most of its trustees are black. The hospital specializes in treatment for diabetes, cancer and hypertension, which occur widely among low-income blacks. It recently built 300 units of condominium housing for low- and middle-income residents of Harlem.
        ''It is a wonderful hospital,'' said Kenneth Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''And Gene did it through sheer dogged persistence and sharp business acumen.''
        When another specialized hospital moved out of Harlem in the late 1970's, Mr. McCabe, along with Randolph Guggenheimer, a lawyer, developed the idea for North General: a community hospital to serve the impoverished, medically deprived area.
        ''It became his passion, his life work,'' said Livingston S. Francis, chairman of the board of North General.
        Mr. Cuomo, who described the hospital's creation as ''a miracle,'' said it took all of Mr. McCabe's persuasive powers to talk him and others into approving the necessary loans. At the time, many small community hospitals, overwhelmed with the unexpected demands of AIDS patients and crack addicts, were being closed. ''It didn't make financial sense,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''But he made a case for that hospital. He was always entreating. He was never offensively pushy, but he was insistent.''
        As a result of Mr. McCabe's entreaties in Albany, Washington and New York City, the state appropriated $150 million to build the hospital. From the start, it was rooted in the community. At one early point, the union asked the hospital workers to continue working despite a missed pay period, Mrs. Gugggenheimer said. With the help of banks, local businesses and politicians, it pulled through several financial crises.
        As president of the new hospital, Mr. McCabe drew on the resources of the staff in unexpected ways, Mr. Francis said. Nurses helped choose color schemes, and engineers installed lighting and laid floors -- tasks that would ordinarily be done by outside workers. The process was repeated seven years ago, when North General moved into its current facility, a modern brick building on 121st Street and Madison Avenue, with a bright interior decorated with art selected by staff members.
        ''That hospital,'' Mr. Cuomo said, ''was his.''
        Mr. McCabe, who grew up in New Haven, graduated from Southern Connecticut State University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Elsie Crum, who is the president of the Museum for African Art in SoHo; their 1-year-old twins, Eugene and Erin, and a son, Kevin, from a previous marriage.
      