
        Fred Kassner, the co-founder of Liberty Travel and a pioneer in bringing many of the world's exotic vacation spots within reach of people of modest means, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Ridgewood, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, a Liberty official said.
        With 200 company-owned travel and cruise stores in the Northeast and Florida, Liberty Travel is the biggest privately owned leisure travel chain in the United States, serving more than one million customers every year. Liberty Travel also owns Gogo Worldwide Vacations, which markets vacation packages to independent retail travel agencies from 88 sales offices in 31 states. Liberty and Gogo, both based in Ramsey, N.J., have a total of 2,500 employees.
        But when 22-year-old Mr. Kassner and Gilbert Haroche, his New York University classmate, opened their first Liberty Travel store in Times Square in 1951, theirs was a one-desk, two-man operation specializing in travel to the Catskills and Miami. Before long they added the Caribbean and Mexico, and eventually included Hawaii and many other destinations worldwide.
        The key to their success was making all-inclusive vacation packages affordable for the general public, for which air travel and resorts were usually out of reach. Today such packages -- which often include transportation, hotels, meals and sightseeing, thus making their combined elements more affordable than buying each segment individually -- are widely sold by travel agencies, airlines, cruise ships and resorts.
        Mr. Kassner was born in Vienna in 1927, the son of a bank president. He attended boarding school in England and was 12 years old when World War II broke out. At that point he joined his parents, who had immigrated to New York. Mr. Kassner served in the Army and later graduated from New York University with a degree in accounting and banking. Over the years he owned and operated steamship cruise lines, hotels, restaurants and golf and country clubs.
        Mr. Kassner is survived by his wife, Gerda; two daughters, Ellen Teitelbaum of Fairlawn, N.J., and Michelle Kassner of New York City; a sister, Trudy Carlyle of Long Island City, Queens; a brother, Ernest, of Vallejo, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      