
        Joseph P. Merlino, a rough-hewn Democrat who was a powerful figure in New Jersey politics for years, serving two terms as State Senate president and helping enact key legislation, died on Wednesday at the Forrestal Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Princeton, N.J., where he had been for a week. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Trenton.
        The cause was heart disease and diabetes, said his daughter, Kate Merlino.
        At the time of his death, he was affiliated with the law firm of Joseph Mooney in Trenton. The capital city, long a Democratic stronghold, was his political power base during his 14 years as a state legislator.
        Those years began in 1968, with two terms in the State Assembly, and then 10 years in the State Senate, where he rose to be president from 1978 to 1981. He won that post after two years of pushing the programs of Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, a fellow Democrat. Mr. Byrne was an old friend and political ally who was known to sit in the Merlino kitchen and eat fried hot peppers.
        ''Joe was a natural-born leader,'' Mr. Byrne, who was Governor from 1974 to 1982, said in an interview yesterday. ''He was forceful and committed, one of the last of the true liberals.'' Mr. Byrne said Mr. Merlino played a critically important role ''at a time when New Jersey had to do a lot of things like preserve the Pinelands and reform the tax system,'' an era of ''major policy decisions which had to be implemented.''
        As Senate president, Mr. Merlino sponsored the Pinelands Protection Act, which was enacted in 1979, backing up a building moratorium in New Jersey's Pinelands that Governor Byrne had already imposed. The act put the New Jersey authorities in charge of protecting almost 20 percent of the state's land area.
        ''Joe and I shared an emotional commitment to the Pinelands,'' Mr. Byrne said, ''but we had a lot of people against us, and it wasn't an issue that immediately caught the public fancy.'' The act received its final legislative approval in the State Assembly by 48 votes to 16. Mr. Byrne, when asked how he and Mr. Merlino prevailed on the issue, said crisply, ''Leadership.''
        But the burly, cigar-loving Mr. Merlino was modest about his skills. ''I was the best D student to graduate from Trenton High School,'' he claimed in a widely quoted interview two decades ago. ''Even my guidance counselor advised me to get a job with the W.P.A.''
        Be that as it may, Mr. Byrne said that while Mr. Merlino was Senate president, ''he was the gatekeeper for a lot of legislation -- it didn't go anywhere unless he wanted it to.'' More than a hundred pieces of legislation that were considered ''his bills'' were passed.
        Mr. Byrne said ''a turning point in New Jersey history'' came in 1976 with the passage of the state's graduated income tax after effective backing from Mr. Merlino, who Mr. Byrne said was ''a pretty subtle arm-twister.'' Other legislation that Mr. Merlino helped get passed included a program to aid elderly people in paying for prescription medications.
        Born in Trenton, he was the son of Pasquale Merlino and the former Margarita Fuccello. He served in the Army, mainly in the Mediterranean area, and received a bachelor's degree in 1948 from Seton Hall and his law degree in 1951 from Fordham.
        From 1956 to 1989, he was the senior partner in the Trenton law firm of Merlino, Rottkamp & Flacks and its predecessors. In 1989, he retired from the firm.
        Among other posts that he held over the years were assistant prosecutor for Mercer County, N.J., which includes Trenton, and Trenton city attorney.
        In 1981, he came in fourth in the Democratic gubernatorial primary, which was won by Representative Jim Florio. In 1982, Mr. Merlino ran for Congress in the new Fourth District in and around Trenton, but he suffered a surprise defeat by the 29-year-old freshman Republican incumbent, Christopher H. Smith.
        During that campaign, the story goes, an overconfident Mr. Merlino was talking to reporters when Mr. Smith tried to interject a comment. ''Quiet, kid,'' Mr. Merlino said, ''I'm talking to the press. When I get to Washington, look me up. I may give you a job as a page.''
        He was on the boards of the Greater Trenton Symphony Orchestra and the New Jersey State Museum.
        Mr. Merlino is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Molly McGoogan; three daughters, Claire Merlino of Brooklyn and Nell Merlino and Kate Merlino, both of Manhattan; two sons, Jim, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Joe, of Manhattan; a sister, Connie Degnan of Palm Beach, Fla., and two stepgrandchildren.
      