
        Lyman S. Ford, who in the 1960's was president of what became United Way of America and who pushed the old Community Chests to become a financing channel for President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, died Monday of pneumonia at a hospice in Hillsborough, N.C., United Way of America said. He was 89.
        When the war on poverty began in late 1964, its leader, Sargent Shriver, rushed to get Federal funds out to about 1,000 hastily created community action agencies. In many cities Mr. Ford pressed the local Community Chests to step forward and receive the funds, arguing that since they already had legal status as public charities and networks of social service agencies under their umbrella, they could best handle the money.
        The tactic, which infuriated some advocates for the poor who wanted organizations outside the local power structures to control the funds, set the stage for the rapid growth of Government funds to social service charities. Today, nonprofit social service agencies rely on Government money for more than half of their revenue, said Lester M. Salamon, a Johns Hopkins University economist who studies nonprofit agencies.
        During the decade that Mr. Ford headed what was then called United Community Funds and Councils of America, he dealt with the mergers in many cities of competing social service charity fund drives, an efficiency move urged by corporate leaders who wanted to simplify payroll giving into a single unified drive.
        ''In some communities it was a very positive merger and in others it was a shotgun wedding,'' recalled Dick Aft, a protege of Mr. Ford who is now president of the United Way and Community Chest of Greater Cincinnati. ''But everywhere Lyman worked with tact and diplomacy to make it work.''
        Mr. Ford also resisted efforts to expand United Way into financing the arts and other fields, sticking close to the core interest in helping children, troubled people and the elderly.
        Lyman Sedgwick Ford was born in Baldwinsville, N.Y., the son of a minister. He graduated from Denison University and earned a master's degree at Ohio State University, which also gave him an honorary doctorate.
        In 1931, he started out as publicity director for the Community Chest in Columbus, Ohio. He later headed the Community Chests in Evanston, Ill., and Kansas City, Mo., and then joined the Community Chest national staff in 1942. He became associate executive director in 1950 and executive director in 1960, retiring in 1970.
        Mr. Ford was a trustee of Denison and served on the boards of the National Charities Information Bureau, the National Council on Social Work Education and the National Conference of Lawyers and Social Workers.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth Nist Ford; a daughter, Barbara Ford Thelen of Denver; a son, James Lyman Ford of Mequon, Wis.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      