
        Chang Chong-Jen, a Chinese painter and sculptor who inspired the comic strip artist known as Herge to create Chang, one of the most loved characters in the renowned Tintin books, died on Thursday at an artists' retirement home outside Paris. He was 93.
        For most readers of the classic Tintin adventure ''The Blue Lotus,'' Chang was a figment of the imagination of Herge, the nom de plume of the Belgian-born artist Georges Remi. In the comic book, published in 1935 but still in print in France and the United States, Tintin rescues Chang from the swollen Yangtze River and the two become bosom buddies.
        Their relationship, however, reflected the friendship between Herge and the real Mr. Chang, who was studying at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Brussels when they met in 1934. They were introduced by a Belgian priest who felt that Mr. Chang could help Herge prepare Tintin's next adventure in China and forestall the cultural stereotypes that characterized the earlier ''Tintin in the Congo.''
        ''At the time, for Westerners, China represented old mandarins and women with tiny feet who threw their babies into rivers,'' Mr. Chang recalled in 1994. ''I opened Herge's eyes.'' The Chinese artist's influence was significant. Herge not only avoided many racial cliches, but he also created the comic strip in the spirit of Chinese pen and ink drawings.
        In 1935, before ''The Blue Lotus'' was published, Mr. Chang returned to China where he began an artistic career that would be endlessly disrupted and even halted by wars and political upheavals, from the Japanese invasion of China through to the Cultural Revolution of the 1960's. Nonetheless, in the mid-1970's, he was appointed director of the Fine Arts Academy of Shanghai.
        Although the Chang character appeared again briefly in ''Tintin in Tibet,'' in 1958, it was only in 1981 that Herge traced Mr. Chang's whereabouts and invited him to visit Brussels. By the time Herge died two years later, Mr. Chang's special place in the history of Tintin had been widely reported in Belgium and France.
        In 1985, France's Culture Minister, Jack Lang, invited Mr. Chang and his daughter to settle in France, where the artist was commissioned to sculpt a bust of President Francois Mitterrand as well as one of Herge, destined for the Comic Book Museum at Angouleme. He also made a sculpture of Deng Xiaoping, which was shipped to China.
        In a statement today, Mr. Lang, now Mayor of Blois, described Mr. Chang as a ''modest, generous and courageous'' man. ''He was for me a powerful symbol of dignity in face of the difficult challenges faced by the great Chinese people,'' Mr. Lang said.
      