
        Richard M. Cyert, a management professor and former president of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, whose half century at the university encompassed its growth from a small regional institute to a national center of higher learning with a global reputation in computer technology and education research, died on Wednesday night at his home in Fox Chapel, Pa. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said Donald A. Hale, Carnegie Mellon's vice president for university relations.
        Dr. Cyert was born in Winona, Minn., the son of two orphans. He worked his way through the University of Minnesota as a page in the library and earned a doctorate at Columbia University under the G. I. Bill of Rights, after serving as a Navy officer in World War II.
        He joined the faculty at Carnegie Mellon, then called the Carnegie Institute of Technology, as an instructor of economics in 1948 and rose to the rank of professor of economics and industrial administration before being appointed dean of the William Larimer Mellon Graduate School of Industrial Administration in 1962.
        There, under Dr. Cyert's direction, the ''management game'' for business education was developed and expanded, and is now used as a model for many other schools; simply put, the game consists of students simulating the operation of a corporation.
        Dr. Cyert, who became the sixth president of the 98-year-old university in 1972, was also a pioneer in computerizing colleges. In the mid-1980's, he linked all the computers on campus to a single network, a system that is as common today as it was unheard of 15 years ago.
        ''A lot of people refer to this place as 'Computer U.,' and Dick should be credited with that,'' Mr. Hale said.
        Dr. Cyert, who also shored up the university's finances during his tenure, retired from the president's post in 1990, but served as a professor emeritus and continued to teach courses until last spring.
        During his career, he was the author or co-author of 12 books and more than 100 articles for professional journals in the fields of economics, behavioral science, management and statistics. In the early 1990's, he also headed the Carnegie Bosch Institute, endowed by the German company Robert Bosch, to study and improve international management.
        He was also a consultant in economics and management science in Belgium, Germany and Australia.
        He was awarded several honorary doctorates, too, and was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Statistical Association. He received a Ford Foundation research fellowship and a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation fellowship, as well.
        Dr. Cyert was also a director and consultant for numerous businesses. In 1980, he headed Gov. Dick Thornburgh's commission to review and make recommendations for Pennsylvania's tax laws.
        He was active in numerous efforts to revitalize western Pennsylvania, and, just as he watched Carnegie Mellon grow, he saw the region's economy evolve from one with a steel and manufacturing base to one with growing reliance on high technology.
        Dr. Cyert is survived by his wife, Margaret Shadick Cyert; three daughters, Lynn Anne Cyert of Tahlequah, Okla.; Lucinda Cyert Steffes of Seattle and Martha Cyert of Palo Alto, Calif.; two sisters, Constance Conradi of Brainerd, Minn., and Charlotte Wilson of Ottawa, and three grandsons.
      