
        Martha E. Peterson, the president of Barnard College in the turbulent Vietnam War era who went on hold the same position at Beloit College, died last Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 90.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Ron Nief, a spokesman for Beloit, in Wisconsin.
        Miss Peterson, as she preferred to be called, was known for fostering calm at Barnard's campus in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan during the late 1960's and early 70's, when student demonstrations roiled at the neighboring campus of Columbia University.
        Miss Peterson, who was president of Barnard from 1967 to 1975, said shortly after her appointment: ''I'm not alarmed by student demonstrations. We better try to build bridges of understanding.''
        At Beloit, where she was president from 1975 to 1981, Miss Peterson was credited with restoring fiscal stability when enrollment and the endowment were shrinking.
        Martha Elizabeth Peterson was born on June 22, 1916, outside Jamestown, Kan., the only child of a wheat farmer and a news reporter. She graduated from the University of Kansas in 1937.
        After teaching high school mathematics for several years, she returned to the University of Kansas and earned a master's degree in educational psychology in 1943.
        Three years later, after teaching mathematics at the university, Miss Peterson was named assistant dean of women. In 1952, she was promoted to dean of women, and five years later was appointed to a similar post at the University of Wisconsin. In 1959, Miss Peterson completed her doctorate in educational psychology at Kansas.
        In May 1967, Miss Peterson was chosen the seventh president of Barnard.
        Dorothy Urman Denburg, the current dean of Barnard, was a student government officer during the antiwar protests, during which more than 100 Barnard students were arrested.
        ''The campus came to a grinding halt,'' Dean Denburg recalled. ''Martha convened the entire college community -- faculty and students -- in one of the largest rooms on campus to talk about what the college's response should be. The outcome was a series of compromises giving students options for completing their academic work.''
        In Miss Peterson's estimation, she once told a reporter, her most significant achievement was working out an arrangement between Barnard and Columbia that allowed students at both colleges to take an unlimited number of courses at the other school while retaining Barnard's autonomy.
        Desiring to return to her Midwest roots, she took the job of president of Beloit. She helped improve the school's economic situation by selling off parts of the campus and cutting the staff.
        Beloit's current president, John E. Burris, said that Miss Peterson's ''down-to-earth style, mixed with congenial good humor, worked well for Beloit at a time when severe personnel and fiscal decisions were necessary.''
        Miss Peterson is survived by her companion, Dr. Maxine Bennett.
      