
        Annely Juda, a London art dealer whose gallery, Annely Juda Fine Art, was known for its pioneering shows of early European modernists, died on Aug. 13 in London. She was 91.
        Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the family, who has exhibited with Ms. Juda's gallery since 1963.
        In a gallery career that spanned five decades, Ms. Juda represented numerous contemporary artists, among them Anthony Caro, David Hockney, Leon Kossoff, Alan Charlton, Christo and Jeanne-Claude, and Tadashi Kawamata. But she was especially known for her annual summer exhibitions, often titled ''The Non-Objective World,'' which helped reintroduce the work of the Russian avant-garde and of de Stijl and Bauhaus artists to the London art world and beyond; they often contained works rarely seen elsewhere. The 1981 summer show, for example, featured seven sculptures by the Russian Constructivist Vladimir Tatlin reconstructed from archival photographs by Martyn Chalk, a British sculptor.
        Ms. Juda was born Anneliese Brauer in Kassel, Germany, in 1914. Her mother was a designer of clothing and typefaces, and her father was an industrial chemist with a keen interest in Goethe's theory of color. Ms. Juda began studying art history, but the family, which was Jewish, moved to Palestine shortly after Hitler came to power.
        Three years later, she traveled to London, working in a boarding house for German refugees in lieu of paying rent while she studied art history and clothing design at the Reimann School. In 1939, she married Paul Juda, also German, and in 1949 she returned with her husband to Germany to try to reclaim his family's confiscated property.
        In 1955, the couple separated and Ms. Juda took their three children to London, where she raised them alone, often by working several jobs at once. For two years she administered the Eric Estorick Collection, which immersed her in the art of the Italian Futurists.
        In 1960 Ms. Juda opened the Molton Gallery with partners; it was followed in 1963 by the Hamilton Galleries, also with partners. In 1968, she joined forces with her son, David, to form Annely Juda Fine Art, inaugurating the gallery with her first summer exhibition of non-objective art. Ms. Juda was made a Companion of the Order of the British Empire in 1998.
        In addition to her son, she is survived by two daughters, Carol Spund of Glasgow and Susan Habrovitsky of Fontenay-sous-Bois, France; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      