
        Susan Butcher, a pioneer for women in sled-dog racing who won the Iditarod race four times and influenced the training and treatment of dogs in the sport, died Saturday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 51.
        The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Jan Abkowitz, the lead physician who treated Butcher at the University of Washington Medical Center.
        Butcher was the second woman to win the Iditarod, the annual 1,150-mile race from Anchorage to Nome, but the first to dominate the grueling competition through the Alaskan wilderness. She won three years in a row, from 1986 to 1988, and again in 1990 before retiring from competition to raise a family with her husband and fellow musher, David Monson, in the mid-1990's.
        Among her many achievements, Butcher was the first to summit Mount McKinley, North America's highest peak, with a dog team in 1979.
        ''She never thought there should be any barriers for women,'' Monson said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''She was the first woman ever to dominate and be the best in the world at a sport where men and women compete equally, and the men did not like that.
        ''I don't think she ever thought of herself as a pioneer.''
        Born and reared in Cambridge, Mass., before studying at Colorado State University and moving to Alaska, Butcher finished in the top five in 12 of her 17 attempts at the Iditarod from 1978 to 1994. Her success brought unprecedented attention to the race.
        ''If you knew Susan, you knew that she was a tremendous competitor, but she had this ability to connect with people that helped this race and this sport rise to a level it had never been at before,'' Chas St. George, spokesman for the Iditarod, said in a telephone interview.
        Butcher's careful training and treatment of her dogs revolutionized the sport. She went on to raise and train dogs with her husband at Trail Breakers Kennel near Fairbanks, Alaska.
        ''In a lot of respects, her greatest contribution to the sport itself was how she made year-round care and training really the standard rather than the exception,'' Monson said.
        Butcher had been treated for polycythemia vera, a blood-system disorder. She was found to have acute leukemia in December 2005, and was treated with chemotherapy. With the cancer in remission, she had a stem-cell transplant on May 16 and chose an experimental approach to maximize her chance for a cure.
        ''There's no question she was a fighter, and she always chose to take risks for the hope she could be cured,'' Dr. Abkowitz, of the University of Washington Medical Center and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, said in a telephone interview.
        Butcher was hospitalized again June 28 with graft-versus-host disease, a complication of the transplant as the injected cells attacked her digestive tract.
        On July 25, the leukemia recurred and was especially aggressive, and Butcher received additional chemotherapy.
        The news of her death sent more shock waves through the tight community of mushers.
        ''We knew the odds were not in her favor,'' Martin Buser, a four-time Iditarod champion, said in a telephone interview. ''You keep thinking an ultracompetitor like that will pull through. You also realize the numbers might be stacked against her.''
        Monson said his wife had her last extended talk with their two daughters, 11-year-old Tekla and 6-year-old Chisana, shortly before having another round of chemotherapy in hopes of beating the illness.
        ''She knew that her kids, her girls were going to be powerful, confident young women someday,'' Monson said. ''She lived more in 51 years than some people do in 100.''
      