
        Alice Stone Ilchman, an economist and political scientist who was president of Sarah Lawrence College for nearly 20 years, died on Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 71.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Judith Schwartzstein, a spokeswoman for the college, which is in Bronxville.
        The eighth president of Sarah Lawrence, Ms. Ilchman (pronounced ILTSCH-man) was also its longest serving, holding the post from 1981 until 1998. She was previously an assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs in the administration of President Jimmy Carter.
        At her death, Ms. Ilchman was the director of the Jeannette K. Watson Fellowship of the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. From 1995 to 2000, she was chairwoman of the Rockefeller Foundation.
        Alice Stone was born in Cincinnati on April 18, 1935. Her father, Donald Crawford Stone, was an educator and federal planner in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations. She earned a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke in 1957; a master's from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University in 1958; and a Ph.D. from the London School of Economics in 1965. She married Warren F. Ilchman in 1960.
        After earning her doctorate, Ms. Ilchman directed the Peace Corps training program for India and taught at the University of California, Berkeley. She later taught economics at Wellesley, where she was Dean of the College
        During Ms. Ilchman's tenure at Sarah Lawrence, the college's endowment grew from $3 million to $30 million. She oversaw the construction of two new buildings, including a science center, which was named for her this May.
        Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      