
        Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn Heights. She was 51.
        The cause was cervical cancer, said her husband, Joseph Bartscherer, a photographer.
        Ms. Shamash was born in Manhattan and maintained a love for the city's waterfront and for the Hudson Valley that motivated much of the work of Minetta Brook, named after a stream that once ran through what is now Greenwich Village.
        Besides the ''Floating Island'' project -- an artificial island inspired partly by Central Park that Mr. Smithson sketched before he died in 1973 -- the organization also created ''Watershed,'' a project in which 10 artists built site-specific works in the Hudson Valley, and ''Riverrun,'' an exhibition of film and video works projected onto the facade of the Holland Tunnel Ventilation Building in Lower Manhattan in 2002.
        Ms. Shamash described ''Floating Island,'' made in conjunction with the Whitney Museum of American Art, as the most complicated and challenging project her organization had ever taken on. She saw it as a kind of answer to ''The Gates,'' the massive public art project created in Central Park in early 2005 by Christo and Jeanne-Claude.
        Though she told few people, Ms. Shamash was battling cancer and had recently undergone radiation and chemotherapy when ''Floating Island'' entered its construction stage at a barge yard in Staten Island, where tons of dirt, trees and rocks were moved in under her supervision and that of Nancy Holt, Mr. Smithson's widow.
        Ms. Shamash, wearing a hard hat and safety vest, employed a mix of implacable friendliness and steely resolve to keep the project on track day after day.
        ''The only pity about this,'' she said as she watched the island materialize last September, ''is that Smithson isn't going to get to see it built.''
        Before founding Minetta Brook, Ms. Shamash was the public art program manager for the Seattle Arts Commission, which produced several projects on that city's streets and along its waterfront.
        A 1981 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in visual studies, she also worked as the curator of modern art at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art in California and as a gallery director for the Minneapolis Society of Fine Art.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Max, and her sister, Beba Shamash of Manhattan.
      