
        Buffie Johnson, a painter whose work spanned much of the 20th century and ranged from Surrealism to Abstract Expressionism to larger-than-life hyperrealism, died on Aug. 11 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Joan Schenkar, a friend.
        Ms. Johnson, who began showing her paintings in the 1930's, continued to exhibit until the end of her life. In 2002, in honor of her 90th birthday, she was the subject of a one-woman show at the Anita Shapolsky Gallery in New York. Last year, the gallery featured her work as part of its group exhibition ''Betty Parsons and the Women.''
        A woman of independent means, Ms. Johnson was by all accounts a woman of sociable temperament, and her life was intertwined with those of some of the 20th century's leading artists, writers and performers. Over the years, she befriended, socialized with or otherwise brushed up against a cast of luminaries including Paul and Jane Bowles, Truman Capote, Willem de Kooning, Lawrence Durrell, Greta Garbo, Patricia Highsmith, Gene Krupa, Gypsy Rose Lee, Robert Motherwell, Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner, Mark Rothko, Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, Gore Vidal and Andy Warhol.
        In her work, Ms. Johnson was concerned with the intersection of spiritualism, myth and symbol. Deeply influenced by the psychiatrist Carl Jung, whom she also befriended, she wrote ''Lady of the Beasts: Ancient Images of the Goddess and Her Sacred Animals,'' published by Harper & Row in 1988.
        Buffie Johnson was born in New York City on Feb. 20, 1912. After studying at the University of California, Los Angeles, she embarked for Europe, where she trained with the noted painters Francis Picabia and Stanley William Hayter. In 1943, she was included in an exhibition at Peggy Guggenheim's New York gallery, Art of This Century, which featured the work of 31 women.
        After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Johnson married the writer and critic Gerald Sykes, from whom she was later divorced. Their daughter, Jenny Johnson Sykes, of Nyack, N.Y., is her only immediate survivor.
        Ms. Johnson's earliest works tended toward the Surrealist; then came more abstract canvases of intense color and pure form. In later years, she turned to huge realistic paintings of flowers and other plant forms, which were imbued with texture through their profuse, veiny detail.
        In the late 1950's, Ms. Johnson was commissioned to paint a huge abstract mural for the Astor Theater on Broadway at 45th Street. Comprising more than 200 45-foot-high panels, the mural, in deep blues, evoked the city at night. The panels were returned to her when the theater was demolished in 1982.
        Her work is in the collections of major museums, including the Guggenheim, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.
        Ms. Johnson sometimes figured in the work of her celebrated friends -- she was photographed by Edward Weston, André Kertesz and Karl Bissinger -- and they sometimes figured in hers. One of her best-known paintings from the 1940's is a portrait of Tennessee Williams.
        It was an association Ms. Johnson came to regret after she let Williams stay in her house. He used the good china when he wasn't supposed to.
        Correction:  September 11, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Sept. 2 about the artist Buffie Johnson misstated the dimensions of the panels that made up the mural she painted for the Astor Theater in New York in the late 1950's. Although the finished mural was 45 feet high, each of its 224 panels measured roughly 5 feet by 10 feet; the panels themselves were not 45 feet high.
      