
        Joan Maynard, who shepherded the preservation of the remnants of Weeksville, a once-thriving 19th-century community of free blacks in Brooklyn that had faded from maps and memory, died on Sunday at her home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. She was 77.
        Her death was confirmed by Pamela Green, her successor as executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History.
        The story of Weeksville's discovery and preservation sounds like a fairy tale with Ms. Maynard as its guardian angel. The settlement began in the 1830's when escaped slaves and free blacks bought property there. It quickly became a thriving community with schools, churches, an orphanage and one of the nation's first black newspapers, The Freedman's Torchlight.
        Among the 19th-century residents of Weeksville was Susan McKinney Steward, who in 1870 became the first female African-American physician in New York State.
        But by 1968, few remembered Weeksville, much less where it had been. A historian leading a workshop at Pratt Institute, James Hurley, had seen references to the community in archives, but in many walks he had found no sign of it.
        Then, Joe Haynes, a volunteer pilot, took Mr. Hurley up in his plane to make an aerial photograph. It showed four wood-frame cottages hidden in an alley once called Hunterfly Road.
        The same year, Ms. Maynard became a founding member of the Weeksville Society and served as president from 1972 until 1974, when she became executive director.
        In 1969, college students and students from a nearby public school did an archaeological dig nearby and found artifacts that included a slave's shackles. The following year, a busload of schoolchildren, accompanied by experts, went to the city Landmarks Preservation Commission to ask that Weeksville be given landmark status.
        That was granted. Weeksville was also listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
        The challenges to restoring Weeksville were numerous. A car crashed into one house, another had to be completely rebuilt, and vandals gutted another.
        Ms. Maynard persisted, taking slides to scores of schools and community groups to win support. She pieced together financing from governments, corporations and children collecting pennies. She donated all her personal savings.
        Decades of her hard work were rewarded in June 2005 when the houses of Weeksville were opened to the public after a $3 million renovation. At that time, the society changed its name to the Weeksville Heritage Center.
        ''They look just like what they were meant to be,'' Charles Hill, who lived in the Kingsborough Houses across the street for many years said of the houses in an interview with The Daily News.
        Such expressions of pride mattered to Ms. Maynard, whose oft-stated mission was nurturing a sense of identity among black children by concretely linking them to their history.
        ''The kids have to learn they're not trash,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1991.
        In a neighborhood that had seen its share of troubles, she pulled no punches: a tree she planted behind one of the cottages commemorated a murdered young man who was involved in Weeksville programs as a boy.
        When some suggested that many more people could view the cottages if they were moved from the edge of Crown Heights, just south of Bedford-Stuyvesant, she refused.
        ''It needs to be here, where many of the people have no knowledge of their own history,'' she told The Times in 1996.
        Joan Cooper was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 29, 1928. Her father, John Cooper, a ventriloquist, and mother, the former Julia St. Bernard, told her stories about the oppression of blacks. In an interview with The Times in 1991, she recalled them discussing a newspaper story about the lynching of a pregnant black woman.
        She graduated from Empire State College of the State University of New York and worked as a commercial artist for McGraw-Hill and other companies. She drew covers for Crisis, the publication of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, as well as comic book treatments of black history.
        Among the many awards she received was the Louise DuPont Crowninshield Award from the National Trust for Historic Preservation, of which she had been a trustee. She retired in 1999, but continued to promote Weeksville.
        Ms. Maynard was married twice, once to a man named Bacchus and once to one named Maynard, and divorced twice. Her son, Jerome, died before her, and she leaves no immediate survivors.
        One of the items found in the archaeological digs at Weeksville was a tintype of a dignified woman, elegantly dressed in tidy hat, fitted bodice and spectacles. Ms. Maynard chose the image as the symbol of Weeksville.
        ''When I look at her eyes, she talks to me,'' Ms. Maynard said. ''She says, 'I existed. I care.' ''
      