
        Margaret Phipps Boegner, who opened her family's vast Long Island estate, Old Westbury Gardens, to the public, died on Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 99.
        Her death was announced by the gardens, of which she was founder and former chairwoman.
        Mrs. Boegner was the granddaughter of Henry Phipps, who in 1861 joined his friend Andrew Carnegie in the steel venture that became a core part of the United States Steel Corporation at its founding in 1901. Mrs. Boegner was the daughter of John S. Phipps and of Margarita Grace Phipps, whose family started the Grace Shipping Line.
        In 1905, John and Margarita Phipps built an English Restoration-style manor house on 160 acres along Old Westbury Road in central Nassau County. The area, which had been the site of Quaker farms, was by then dotted by imposing country estates. Seventy acres of the Phipps estate were set aside for precisely sculptured and varied gardens.
        Mrs. Boegner's mother died in 1957, and her father died in 1958. A year later, Mrs. Boegner -- who by then lived in a somewhat more modest white clapboard home adjacent to the estate -- established and became chairwoman of the nonprofit Old Westbury Gardens. Since then, the public has been allowed to roam the gardens and take tours of the manor house, which is furnished with 18th-century antiques.
        Circular rose gardens, a rainbow of blossoms surrounding a thatched cottage and an Italianate walled garden with trees trained to grow in the shape of candelabras are found near the main house. There are grand vistas down rows of linden and beech trees. And the far reaches of the estate, with lakes and ponds, evoke 18th-century English landscapes.
        Margaret Helen Phipps Boegner, who preferred to be called Peggie, was born on Nov. 17, 1906. A year later, the family moved to Old Westbury. Mrs. Boegner lived in the main house until 1930, when she married J. Gordon Douglas Jr. The marriage ended in divorce in 1947. In 1951, she married Etienne Boegner, a French diplomat. Mr. Boegner died in 1985.
        Mrs. Boegner is survived by a daughter, Dita Douglas Naylor-Leyland of Manhattan; a son, J. Gordon Douglas III of Pawling, N.Y.; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      