
        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 and also had a home in Southampton, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Mrs. Lawford's brother.
        Athletic, lithe and as poised as a princess, Mrs. Lawford is widely remembered as the Roman Catholic schoolgirl who dismayed her domineering father, Joseph P. Kennedy, the former ambassador to Britain, by marrying Mr. Lawford, a debonair British actor.
        The marriage, in 1954, was the stuff of newsreels: some 3,000 spectators gathered outside St. Thomas More Roman Catholic Church on the Upper East Side.
        The sixth of nine children born to Joseph Kennedy and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford, like her siblings, had a well-honed understanding of politics and of the power of appearances. As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods. When he ran for president in 1960, she often substituted at events for his wife, Jacqueline Kennedy, who was pregnant.
        The Lawfords strengthened John Kennedy's ties to the show business world of Hollywood and Las Vegas through Mr. Lawford's association with the ''Rat Pack'' of Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Shirley MacLaine.
        Mr. Sinatra threw his support behind Kennedy, and his hit song ''High Hopes,'' with lyrics by Sammy Cahn, became the Kennedy campaign song. At the opening of the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, Sinatra, Davis, Mr. Lawford and Ms. MacLaine helped lead the singing of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.''
        Through the years, Mrs. Lawford was a close friend of Marilyn Monroe, Tennessee Williams and Sinatra, for whom she partly named her daughter Victoria Frances.
        In 1966, after 11 years of marriage, Mrs. Lawford became the first Kennedy to file for a divorce. It was a highly publicized break, one that required Mrs. Lawford to establish residency in Idaho to circumvent New York's divorce laws of the time.
        Afterward, Mrs. Lawford and her four children moved to New York, where she took on a busy social schedule, befriended artists and writers and became known as a generous benefactor of the arts. She was a familiar presence at benefit dinners, and her patronage would increase the cachet of any fund-raising event. Her name appeared regularly in the society columns of New York, the Hamptons and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Patricia Kennedy was born on May 6, 1924, in Brookline, Mass., the fourth daughter of Joseph and Rose Kennedy and the granddaughter of John F. Fitzgerald, the popular mayor of Boston who had earlier served in the House of Representatives.
        In the 1930's, while her father was ambassador to Britain, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart at Roehampton, a boarding school for girls on the outskirts of London. When her family moved to Bronxville, N.Y., she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart school in the Maplehurst section of the Bronx. (It later moved to Greenwich, Conn.) She attended Rosemont College in Pennsylvania, graduating in 1945.
        Hers was a family that expected women to be graceful and well rounded while remaining in the background, quietly serving the ambitions of their men. Of the five Kennedy sisters, she was considered the most beautiful and sophisticated, with the aristocratic air of her mother. She was an accomplished athlete, but she never caught the family's legendary fire for competition.
        In her 1987 book, ''The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys,'' Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote that Rose Kennedy was bothered by Patricia's lack of ambition. ''Although she had a good mind, a fine physique and a beautiful face which could easily have led her to excel in school,'' Ms. Goodwin wrote, ''in sports or in appearance, Rose contended 'she would never make the effort to achieve distinction' in any of these areas.''
        But Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher Lawford, wrote in his best-selling memoir, ''Symptoms of Withdrawal,'' published last year, that his mother had been resentful of her father for ''not being allowed fully to live up to her potential.''
        In college she directed and acted in theater productions, and she pursued those interests after graduation, going to work as an assistant in the New York production department of NBC. She moved to Los Angeles to work as an assistant for Kate Smith's radio show and later for ''Family Theater,'' the radio program produced by the Rev. Patrick Peyton.
        Much like her older sister Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to rear their children as Catholics.
        Mrs. Lawford was the only Kennedy to move away from the family's traditional East Coast settings of Hyannis Port, Palm Beach and New York. She and Mr. Lawford settled into a sprawling oceanfront home in California once owned by Louis B. Mayer. The house became a recreation center for other family members; the president spent time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
        After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, Mrs. Lawford was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children, Caroline and John Jr. In 1986, she joined Senator Kennedy on an official visit to Chile that was marred by egg-throwing protesters angered by Mr. Kennedy's criticism of President Augusto Pinochet.
        Mrs. Lawford devoted her energies to organizations that served the mentally disabled and to those helping people with substance abuse problems. She had a close personal appreciation for both causes: her older sister Rosemary, who died last year, was born mildly retarded and was lobotomized at 23; and she, Mr. Lawford and her son had waged their own battles with drugs and alcohol.
        Mrs. Lawford's brother Robert, the former attorney general and later senator from New York, was closest to her in age, just 18 months younger. After his assassination in 1968, Mrs. Lawford assembled a privately printed book of reminiscences about him, as John had done for their oldest brother, Joe, who died in World War II.
        The book, ''That Shining Hour,'' was published in 1969. Mrs. Lawford wrote in her introduction: ''This is not a sad book. Bobby was not a sad person. His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.''
        In addition to her brother Edward, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of California; three daughters, Sydney and Victoria Frances, both of Washington, and Robin, of New York; her sisters Jean Kennedy Smith and Eunice Kennedy Shriver; and 10 grandchildren.
        In her last years, Mrs. Lawford led a relatively private life. She may have been a Kennedy, a woman with an instantly familiar name, but she did not crave attention and enjoyed walking the streets of Manhattan without being recognized.
        Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.
        Correction:  September 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary in some copies yesterday about Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, misstated the location of her death. It was at her home in Manhattan, not her home in Southampton, N.Y. The article also erroneously included a survivor; her sister Rosemary Kennedy died last year. The obituary also misstated the place of residence of Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher. He lives in California, not New York. A full obituary appears today on page B8.
      