
        Andrea M. Bronfman, an internationally noted philanthropist, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Palm Beach, Fla.; and Jerusalem.
        The police said that Mrs. Bronfman died of injuries she sustained after she was struck by a livery cab early Monday morning while walking her dog on East 65th Street.
        The wife of Charles R. Bronfman, of the Seagram empire, Mrs. Bronfman was a co-chairman of the Andrea and Charles Bronfman Philanthropies. She was known in particular for her involvement with Jewish causes in the United States, Canada and Israel.
        Mrs. Bronfman was also a founder of the Gift of New York, which through the spring of 2003 provided free tickets to cultural and sporting events to the families of Sept. 11 victims.
        Andrea Brett Morrison, known as Andy, was born in London on May 30, 1945, the daughter of an American mother, Doris, and a Scottish father, Hyam, who ran a women's clothing business. Both were deeply involved in Jewish and Zionist affairs; frequent visitors to the family home included David Ben-Gurion, Shimon Peres and Golda Meir.
        After working briefly as a secretary in London, Andrea married David Cohen, and moved with him to Canada. The marriage ended in divorce. She married Mr. Bronfman in 1982.
        Mrs. Bronfman was a trustee of many organizations, among them the Jewish Museum and the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. Her other work included founding the Association of Israel's Decorative Arts and creating a traveling exhibition, ''A Coat of Many Colours: Two Centuries of Jewish Life in Canada,'' which was shown in New York at the Jewish Museum in 1993.
        Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      