
        Astrid Varnay, the charismatic dramatic soprano whose distinguished 55-year career began at 23 with a last-minute debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing the role of Sieglinde in Wagner's ''Walküre'' for an indisposed Lotte Lehmann, died in Munich on Monday. She was 88.
        The cause was a pericardial infection after a long illness, said the writer Donald Arthur, who collaborated with Ms. Varnay on her autobiography, ''Fifty-Five Years in Five Acts: My Life in Opera'' (2000, Northeastern University Press).
        As a Wagnerian soprano, Ms. Varnay never achieved the widespread public recognition of her beloved mentor Kirsten Flagstad or her good friend Birgit Nilsson, who like Ms. Varnay was born in Sweden in 1918. But to opera buffs and insiders, Ms. Varnay was a comparably excellent artist.
        Her voice had a remarkable range of colorings, from steely luster in climactic outbursts to dusky mellowness in lyrical phrases. She was an alluring woman and a natural actress who conveyed both tragic dignity and impetuosity. Text and music were one in Ms. Varnay's subtle interpretations.
        Her work recently came to public attention again when the Testament label released the first two installments of a complete account of Wagner's ''Ring,'' recorded live at the 1955 Bayreuth Festival in Germany. Ms. Varnay, portraying Brünnhilde in ''Die Walküre'' and ''Siegfried,'' sings with shimmering intensity and keen dramatic insight.
        In a phone interview yesterday, James Levine called Ms. Varnay ''one of the truly unique singers'' and recalled working with her in 1979 when, at 61, she sang the role of the hard-bitten Widow Begbick in John Dexter's gritty production of the Weill-Brecht opera ''The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.''
        ''I can't think of anyone else who had a grip on the whole thing the way she did,'' Mr. Levine said. ''She sang from the inside out.'' He added: ''The whole score, everything was in her realization, and the presence and the drama were always in balance with the music.''
        Though opera was the family business, Ms. Varnay was a latecomer to singing. Ibolyka Astrid Maria Varnay was born in Stockholm on April 25, 1918, to Hungarian parents. At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
        In a story she loved to tell in later life, Ms. Varnay said her mother used the bottom drawer of a dressing table backstage as a makeshift crib for her infant daughter during a performance of Verdi's ''Ballo in Maschera.'' The table belonged to the company's prima donna, Flagstad, who watched over the baby.
        When Astrid was 4, the Varnay family, in search of opportunities, moved to Buenos Aires and then to New York. Her father, who was working as a director at the Manhattan Opera House, died suddenly in 1924. Her mother married an Italian tenor, and the family settled in Jersey City, where Ms. Varnay was brought up.
        She set her sights on becoming a pianist. But her vocal talent was overwhelming and she began serious training at 20, working privately with Hermann Weigert, a coach and assistant conductor at the Met. When she sang an audition for Edward Johnson, then the general manager of the Met, he could not believe that Ms. Varnay, a 22-year-old, had learned 13 daunting soprano roles.
        When he needed a Sieglinde at the last minute for a Saturday matinee broadcast performance of ''Die Walküre'' on Dec. 6, 1941, he turned to Ms. Varnay, who had not even had a stage rehearsal. Cultural news that weekend was pushed aside by the events of the following day: the attack on Pearl Harbor. Still, the opera world took notice.
        The New York Times review reported that the ''exceedingly comely Swedish-American soprano acted with a skill and grace only possible to those with an inborn talent for the theater.''
        Six days later, Helen Traubel, scheduled to sing Brünnhilde in ''Die Walküre,'' took ill and Ms. Varnay, in another last-minute substitution, sang the role, wowing New York audiences and critics.
        In 1944 she married her coach, Mr. Weigert, who died in 1955. (Ms. Varnay has no immediate survivors.) Though in the late 1940's she branched into the Italian repertory, at the Met she was known for her Wagner interpretations. She sang around 200 performances with the company.
        Still, disagreements with Rudolf Bing, who became the Met's general manager in 1950, led her to concentrate her career in Europe. She became a mainstay of companies in Berlin, Munich and Vienna. She was a particular favorite of Wieland Wagner, Richard Wagner's grandson, who ran the Bayreuth Festival and directed Ms. Varnay in several of his radically abstract and spare productions.
        In the late 1960's she gave up her weighty dramatic soprano repertory, which included a chilling portrayal of Strauss's Elektra, and began a ''second career,'' as she called it, singing mezzo-soprano roles and character parts. Mr. Levine said when he asked Ms. Varnay late in her career why she still undertook small roles like Mamma Lucia in Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' she told him, '' 'I just love being on stage, seeing up close the work of my younger colleagues.' ''
      