
        Ernestine Bayer, who founded a pioneering women's rowing club in 1938 on the Schuylkill in Philadelphia, rowed competitively into her 90's and became known as the mother of women's rowing, died Sept. 10 in Exeter, N.H. She was 97.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her daughter, Tina Bayer, a former world-class rower.
        Persevering when competitive female rowers were regarded as curiosities, Bayer reveled in teaching women to row. She championed inclusion of women's rowing in the Olympics, a goal attained in 1976 at the Montreal Games, when she served on the United States Olympic Committee's women's rowing unit.
        In 1984, she became the first woman elected to the National Rowing Hall of Fame. In 1992, USRowing -- rowing's national governing body -- presented her with its highest honor, and it annually presents a medal in her name for outstanding contributions to women's rowing.
        A native of Philadelphia and, as she recalled, a onetime tomboy, to the consternation of her ladylike mother, Bayer endured a decade of frustrated ambitions before embarking on her rowing career.
        She had met Ernest Bayer while he was training on the Schuylkill for the rowing competition at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, and they married in January 1928. Ernest Bayer was a member of the coxless-four crew that went on to win an Olympic silver medal, and he continued to train on the Schuylkill during the 1930's, with Ernestine watching from the shore or accompanying him in his boat.
        One day, she saw a woman take her boyfriend's boat onto the river and asked her husband why she could not row as well. He told her that women simply did not row.
        Her husband eventually let her take out a small boat. ''Three-quarters of the men, I'm sorry to say, wouldn't speak to him,'' she told The Syracuse Herald American in 1996. ''When they did talk, they'd tell him girls had no right to be out on the river rowing.''
        But in 1938, she led a group of young women who formed the Philadelphia Girls' Rowing Club on the Schuylkill's Boathouse Row. ''In the past, women had rowed for exercise,'' Tina Bayer said in a telephone interview yesterday, but the Philadelphia club, she said, was the first competitive women's rowing organization in the United States. Ernestine Bayer became the club's president, the members receiving instruction from her husband.
        Bayer soon won the first women's race on the Schuylkill, a doubles competition among club members. She had limited opportunities to compete after that since so few women were rowing. But in 1967, she persuaded American rowing officials to select her club as the first American crew to take part in the European women's rowing championship. The club's eight-oared boat, which included Tina Bayer in the crew, finished sixth and last at the competition in Vichy, France. But that appearance by the United States on the world rowing scene provided impetus for the inclusion of women's rowing in the Olympics.
        In the early 1970's, the Bayer family moved to Stratham, N.H., living along the Squamscott River, and Ernestine Bayer founded the Alden Ocean Shell Association, whose members used an all-purpose boat called the Alden. That association became a major recreational group. The Bayer family also forged women's rowing into a varsity sport at the University of New Hampshire.
        Ernestine Bayer captured many medals in master's races, and at 92 she won two golds and a silver, competing in doubles and eight-oared events, in the 60-and-over category at the masters world championships in Montreal.
        Tina Bayer is her only survivor. Ernest Bayer died in 1997 at 92.
        In 1984, the United States women's eight won a gold medal at the Los Angeles Olympics. Later that year, after Bayer and the crew were inducted into the Rowing Hall of Fame, the crew members invited Bayer to row with them as a tribute to her pioneering.
        That ceremonial row symbolized the realization of her dreams for women's rowing.
        Reliving the moment, she told The Boston Globe in 1996 how ''we came in and I sat on the dock and I cried.''
      