
        Martha Holmes, a photographer for Life magazine for 40 years, who was known for her intimate portraits but also for covering sports at a time when that was male turf, died on Sept. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 83.
        The death was confirmed by her son-in-law, John Koshel.
        Hired by Life in 1944 when she was 20, Ms. Holmes was one of five women who were photographers at the magazine during its glory decades as the nation's most popular publisher of photography.
        She worked in Hollywood, Washington and New York -- for five years on staff and for 35 years as a freelancer -- capturing images of movie stars like Judy Garland, Marlene Dietrich, Van Johnson, Joan Crawford and John Garfield, and of public figures like the union leader John L. Lewis, caught in a scowl, and Eleanor Roosevelt sipping tomato juice.
        ''She had a talent for extracting the best from people,'' said Bobbi Burrows, the director of photography for Life Books and an editor at the magazine for 40 years. ''She brought intimacy out of her subjects; people felt they were in good hands.''
        Perhaps Ms. Holmes's most famous image is of the abstract painter Jackson Pollock, taken at his home studio in East Hampton, N.Y., for the issue of Aug. 8, 1949. It shows Pollock crouching over a canvas with paint cupped in his right hand, demonstrating his technique for applying an unbroken stream of black enamel, a cigarette dangling from his mouth.
        In 1999 the photograph was the model for a 33-cent postage stamp. The Postal Service hired an artist, Howard Koslow, to copy it -- telling him to leave out the dangling cigarette, in the interest of public health.
        Another well-known photo by Ms. Holmes, taken in 1947 during the Hollywood blacklist era, shows Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall and Danny Kaye in the audience at a hearing of the House Un-American Activities Committee, looks of concern on their faces.
        Ms. Holmes's son-in-law, Mr. Koshel, said he once showed her the picture and suggested that it was an indication of her political point of view.
        ''Martha remarked, 'No, I just saw Bogey was upset,' '' he said.
        Martha Louise Holmes was born in Louisville, Ky., on Feb. 7, 1923. Her father, George Holmes, worked in public relations; her mother, Emma Auer Holmes, was a voice coach. Ms. Holmes is survived by two daughters, Anne Waxman of Manhattan and Terry Koshel of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and two grandchildren. Her husband of 46 years, Arthur Waxman, died in 1998.
        Ms. Holmes became interested in photography as teenager. She attended the University of Louisville for a year, but then was hired as a photo lab assistant at The Louisville Courier-Journal. Soon after, she was given a three-month trial as a cub photographer.
        Two years later a Life photographer noticed her work and recommended that the magazine hire her. One of her first assignments was to cover the Kentucky Derby, where a male photographer shoved her aside. She later said she just elbowed him in the chest.
        Ms. Burrows said Ms. Holmes's favorite photo, taken in 1949, is of the jazz singer Billy Eckstine surrounded by grinning female fans, one with her head on his chest.
        ''It was groundbreaking back then in that it was a black man hugging a white woman,'' Ms. Burrrows said. ''There was a discussion about whether we should run it or not.'' An editor took the print to Henry R. Luce, Life's publisher, Ms. Burrows said. ''And Mr. Luce said, 'Run it.' ''
        In 1953 Ms. Holmes was the subject of a sports-page article in The Louisville Times. Headlined ''Gal Sent to Cover Marciano Camp,'' it tells how she was assigned to shoot the heavyweight champion Rocky Marciano at his training camp at Grossinger's resort in the Catskills. In the article Ms. Holmes tells how an assignment editor at Life looked around, pointed and said, ''You.''
        ''Who, me?'' Ms. Holmes recalled saying.
        ''Yes, you're a photographer, aren't you?'' the editor said.
      