
        Dr. Gail Greenberg Shapiro, a pediatric allergist who contributed to important studies of drug treatments for asthma and allergies and helped develop widely used standards for managing childhood asthma, died on Aug. 25 in Seattle. She was 59.
        Dr. Shapiro died during cardiac surgery. Her death was confirmed by a spokeswoman for the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, of which Dr. Shapiro was a past president.
        Beginning in the 1970's, she combined research with a clinical practice in Seattle and participated in trials of antihistamines and other drugs intended to treat asthma, rhinitis, hives and eczema. She also investigated factors like exercise and indoor dust mites in producing reactions that can lead to asthma in children.
        Dr. Gary S. Rachelefsky, an allergist in private practice in Los Angeles and, with Patricia Garrison, co-author of a book, ''Free Your Child From Asthma,'' said Dr. Shapiro had been instrumental in preparing fresh guidelines to test for asthma, which is sometimes confused with a chronic cough or bronchitis.
        In the 1990's, Dr. Rachelefsky and Dr. Shapiro worked together to distribute the ''Pediatric Asthma Guide'' to physicians, nurses and school administrators, to help in diagnosing the disease before an acute attack might occur. The booklet remains in use.
        Gail Ina Greenberg was born in Brooklyn. She received her undergraduate degree from Brown and a medical degree from Johns Hopkins, in 1970.
        After training at the University of Washington, she went into private practice at the Northwest Asthma and Allergy Center in Seattle, where she became a senior partner and remained for her career. Dr. Shapiro was also a clinical professor of pediatrics at Washington.
        She helped edit a medical textbook, ''Allergy, Asthma and Immunology from Infancy to Adulthood'' (1996).
        Dr. Shapiro is survived by her husband of 39 years, Dr. Peter A. Shapiro, an orthodontist; a son, Evan, and a daughter, Jessica Mirsky; and a grandchild.
      