
        Julia Levien, a leading authority on the dances of Isadora Duncan and a teacher of her technique, died on Sunday at her home on Roosevelt Island. She was 94.
        Her death was announced by Catherine Gallant, a dancer and choreographer who studied with her for many years.
        Ms. Levien (pronounced Le-VINE) was taught by Anna Duncan, one of Isadora Duncan's six adopted daughters, making Ms. Levien a third-generation Duncan dancer. When Ms. Levien herself began offering lessons in Duncan's work to younger students, she not only had them learn Duncan's way of moving and her choreography but also wove together classroom exercises with a running commentary on the arts and social issues of Duncan's time and the major influences that helped to shape Duncan's philosophy of movement.
        A small, no-nonsense woman, Ms. Levien spoke her mind as a teacher in upbeat ways and had boundless curiosity -- and opinions. She taught and lectured internationally and wrote many articles about Duncan, continuing to work until last year.
        Her students included Annabelle Gamson, a solo dancer and choreographer known for her exhilarating performances of Duncan dances, and most Duncan dancers performing today in New York studied at one point with Ms. Levien.
        She was also an energetic mediator in the often disorganized world of Duncan teachers and students, bringing factions together in the Duncan Dance Guild, which she organized in the 1950's. She created the Duncan Centenary Company in 1977 to celebrate Duncan's centenary, playing an important role in the rebirth of interest in Duncan's work.
        Though she was not the only knowledgeable restager of the dances, Ms. Levien's reconstructions helped to prove that Duncan choreographed rather than improvised dances, and that they had structure, set steps, gestures and patterns, all informed by a philosophy of naturally flowing and gravity-bound movement. Ms. Levien's teaching made clear that Duncan's simple-looking moves demanded extreme focus and concentration to achieve not only the correct execution but also important and distinctive tones or emotional qualities.
        ''We weren't allowed to change from left to right a pinky!'' said Ms. Levien in a 1978 interview in The New York Times, in which she recalled her training in and performance of Duncan dances.
        Ms. Levien dined out on stories about Duncan she heard from childhood, including an account of Duncan's visit to a reception for writers at her family's home in the Bronx, which the dance star described as ''the charming little hideaway I've dreamed of.''
        After training with Anna Duncan, Ms. Levien performed throughout the world in the 1930's and 40's with her company and that of Irma Duncan, another of Isadora Duncan's daughters. Ms. Levien also began to create her own choreography in the 1930's in dances that, like most modern dance of the time, reflected social concerns.
        Ms. Levien danced the Duncan pieces ''in a totally different manner which is nonimitative, nontraditional and her own,'' John Martin wrote in a 1943 review in The Times. ''She moves with great beauty and an apparently innate sense of dynamics,'' he continued, describing her performance of her own choreography: ''Few dancers can manage to make sustained, lyrical movement so engrossing simply as movement.''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children. She wrote and illustrated ''Duncan Dance, A Guide for Young People,'' published by the Princeton Book Company in 1994.
        She is survived by her son, Eliot Golden of Roslyn, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
        As a child, Ms. Levien met Duncan.
        ''I recall a diaphanous white figure moving magically in a vast blue space,'' she said in a speech at the 92nd Street Y in 1996. ''After the performance, when all of us children in the audience rushed to the apron of the stage, Isadora stood gesturing above us, asking the audience for donations for her Russian school. The money rained down. It was at that moment that I noticed her hennaed hair and streaked makeup. Still, to us she seemed like some extraordinary goddess.''
      