
        Patty Berg, the winner of a record 15 women's major golf championships and a founder of the Ladies Professional Golf Association, died yesterday in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88.
        Her death was announced by the L.P.G.A. She had Alzheimer's disease.
        Berg won the first United States Women's Open, in 1946, and she won the Titleholders Championship and the Western Open seven times each when they were major tournaments. She was the first president of the L.P.G.A. when it formally began in 1950.
        Berg won 60 professional and 28 amateur tournaments. In the 1950's, she was the leading money winner on the L.P.G.A. Tour three times and the winner of the Vare Trophy for the lowest average score during the Tour season three times. She was inducted into the L.P.G.A. Tour and World Golf halls of fame and was voted The Associated Press female athlete of the year in 1938, 1943 and 1955.
        Berg promoted women's golf at thousands of clinics, her technical skills complemented by an ebullient personality.
        At times, however, she was overshadowed by Babe Didrikson Zaharias, her friend and rival. ''Patty got kicked under the rug because of Babe,'' Mickey Wright, who is second on the career list with 13 major victories, once said.
        But Wright considered Berg the finest female golfer she ever saw.
        ''No. 1, she had a good grip,'' Wright told Rhonda Glenn in ''The Illustrated History of Women's Golf.''
        ''She had a simple golf swing that never changed. She had the club square. She hit the ball solidly, she hit the ball high. She knew more golf shots than any other women before or after.''
        Patricia Jane Berg was born Feb. 13, 1918, in Minneapolis. Her father, Herman Berg, owned a grain company and played golf at Interlachen Country Club in suburban Edina. Her brother, Herman Jr., was a fine golfer.
        She hardly had a classic athlete's frame: she was 5 feet 2 inches tall, but was a natural at sports.
        As a youngster, she played quarterback for a boys' neighborhood football team called the 50th Street Tigers. The team had a lineman named Bud Wilkinson, who became a legendary football coach at Oklahoma. Berg was also an outstanding speedskater for the Minneapolis Powderhorn Club.
        Leaving those sports behind, she began taking golf lessons and at age 16 won the Minneapolis city golf championship. At 18, she was a member of the United States Curtis Cup team, a red-haired youngster with a face full of freckles, as she was invariably described in the press.
        ''I had tried speedskating and a lot of other sports,'' Berg told The Star-Tribune of Minneapolis in 1988. ''But golf was the great challenge for me. So much to do with tempo, rhythm, balance. I learned so much about patience. That's the key, patience. Then concentration and confidence.''
        In 1938, Berg won 10 of 13 amateur tournaments, including the United States Women's Amateur, and was named to the Curtis Cup team for the second time.
        In 1940, while a student at the University of Minnesota, she turned pro, promoting Wilson Sporting Goods, her longtime sponsor, at clinics and exhibitions. At the time, there were only a few tournaments for pros, and prize money amounted to a couple of hundred dollars a year.
        Berg's career almost ended Dec. 8, 1941, when she sustained a broken knee in an auto accident. She was sidelined for 18 months, then won a couple of tournaments before becoming a Marine officer in World War II, working stateside in recruitment and public relations posts.
        Berg won the inaugural United States Women's Open in 1946 in Spokane, Wash., defeating Betty Jameson in match play.
        In January 1949, the seeds of the L.P.G.A. were planted when Berg met at the Venetian Hotel in Miami with Zaharias; Zaharias's husband, George; and Fred Corcoran, the P.G.A.'s longtime tournament director and a gifted promoter, to discuss creation of a women's tour. Later that year, Berg was elected president of the fledgling L.P.G.A., and in 1950 the organization officially began with Berg and 12 other golfers recognized as the founders.
        In 1950, the women's tour was made up of 14 events with a total of $50,000 in prize money. When Berg became the top money winner for the first time, in 1954, she earned $16,011.
        The L.P.G.A. established the Patty Berg Award in 1978 for outstanding contributions to golf. She retired from the Tour two years after that, when she underwent a hip replacement.
        In 1996, Berg attended the United States Women's Open at Southern Pines, N.C. The winner, Annika Sorenstam, earned $212,500.
        ''Can you believe these galleries?'' Berg said. ''Who could ever have dreamed of all this? When I first played, there were five of us playing for a total purse of $500. The rest were amateurs.''
      