
        Marcia Tucker, a forceful curator who responded to being fired from the Whitney Museum of American Art by founding the New Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Tuesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 66.
        Ms. Tucker learned several years ago that she had cancer, but a spokeswoman for the New Museum did not specify the cause of death.
        In establishing the New Museum in 1977 when she was 37, Ms. Tucker continued the proactive impulses of an older generation of women who helped create the foremost modern art museums in New York: Abby Aldrich Rockefeller of the Museum of Modern Art, Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney and Juliana Force of the Whitney and Hilla Rebay of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
        But Ms. Tucker, who was born in Brooklyn, came of age in the 1960's and was a product of her time. She said that her motto in founding the museum was, ''Act first, think later -- that way you have something to think about.''
        Her encounters with feminism in college became the basis of a political activism that permeated much of what she did. But it was balanced by an omnivorous passion for art. In the early 1970's she belonged to the Redstockings, a feminist group. In the 1980's it was often rumored that she belonged to the gorilla-masked Guerrilla Girls, feminist watchdogs of the art world. Later she helped form an a cappella singing group called the Art Mob (singing alto) and also sometimes performed as a stand-up comedian.
        In a sense she made the New Museum, which she ran for 22 years as director, in her own image: a somewhat chaotic, idealistic place where the nature of art was always in question, exhibitions were a form of consciousness raising and mistakes were inevitable. She also wanted the museum to welcome art that was excluded elsewhere because it was difficult, out of fashion, unsalable or made by artists who were not white or male or straight.
        The daughter of a trial lawyer, Ms. Tucker was born Marcia Silverman and grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and then New Jersey in a household that took politics and culture seriously. Drawn to art from an early age, she studied theater and art at Connecticut College, where she earned a Bachelor of Arts in 1961 and spent her junior year at the École du Louvre in Paris.
        Her first job was as a secretary in the department of prints and drawings at the Museum of Modern Art; she soon quit because she was asked to sharpen too many pencils. She went on to earn a master's degree in art history from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University and worked as an editorial associate at Art News magazine.
        She also supported herself by cataloging private collections, including those of Alfred H. Barr Jr., the first director of the Museum of Modern Art, and the independently wealthy painter William N. Copley. She was especially close with Mr. Barr and his wife, Margaret Scolari Barr.
        Ms. Tucker acquired her surname Tucker in an early marriage. Survivors include her current husband, Dean McNeil; their daughter, Ruby; and her brother, Warren Silverman.
        In 1969 Ms. Tucker became a curator of painting and sculpture at the Whitney. She almost immediately helped point the museum in a new direction with ''Anti-Illusion: Procedures/Materials,'' the first large show of Process Art, or Post-Minimalism, in an American museum, organized with James Monte, another Whitney curator.
        Her subsequent shows included surveys of the painters James Rosenquist, Joan Mitchell and Al Held, and the Post-Minimalists Robert Morris, Bruce Nauman and Richard Tuttle. The harsh reviews of the ephemeral, hard-to-find artworks in the Tuttle show eventually led to her dismissal in 1977.
        That same year, after assembling a board of trustees that included the philanthropist Vera List, she opened the New Museum on Fifth Avenue at 14th Street, on the ground floor of a building owned by what is now the New School.
        At the New Museum she emphasized inclusive group shows with provocative titles like '' 'Bad' Painting'' and ''Bad Girls,'' insisted that the museum guards be knowledgeable about the art on view and planned to de-accession the collection every decade to keep the museum young. She served as series editor of ''Documentary Sources in Contemporary Art,'' five anthologies of theory and criticism.
        Her most notorious show, ''Have You Attacked America Today?,'' caused garbage cans to be thrown through the plate-glass window of the museum, which had by then moved to Broadway in SoHo. (The museum is constructing a new $35 million building on the Lower East Side, which is expected to open late next year. Until then it is sharing gallery space with the Chelsea Art Museum.)
        John Walsh, then director of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., described Ms. Tucker in especially apt terms in a 1993 article in The New York Times: ''There's always been a social conscience in Marcia that's impatient and results in a kind of alertness you can just read across her forehead like a Jenny Holzer sign.''
      