
        Princess Irene Galitzine, a descendant of Russian nobility who founded a glamorous fashion house in Italy and popularized ornate pants as evening wear in the 1960's, died Friday at her home in Rome. She was believed to be 90.
        Her death was announced by Angela Savarese, her assistant, who said she died in her sleep. She left no immediate survivors.
        Princess Galitzine's couture collections, shown in a Roman villa, were once praised as the social highlight of the fashion season, and her salon on the Via Veneto was where du Ponts competed with Fords to have first crack at her designs, which often featured a spiral cut. Greta Garbo, whom the princess befriended aboard the yacht of Aristotle Onassis, once appeared at a Galitzine presentation, ''although she disliked the crowd,'' the princess said.
        Her most famous design was the evening pants she introduced in Florence about a decade after starting her company, with styles either slim and embroidered or flowing in gauzy fabrics. Diana Vreeland, in Vogue, called them ''palazzo pajamas,'' after the setting of the shows in the Palazzo Pitti. (The princess showed her ready-to-wear line in Florence and her couture designs in Rome, when women who bought those clothes routinely went there to find less expensive designs than those shown in Paris.)
        Some American designers, notably Arnold Scaasi, Jane Derby and Norman Norell, had already experimented with the idea of fancy dinner pants for women, but it was Princess Galitzine's appearances in the designs at great society parties that inspired other women to buy them. She said in 1960 that she was deluged with orders even before she showed the look at a fashion show.
        ''I was one of Emilio Pucci's best customers, but I got tired of seeing the same clothes I was wearing on other people, so I began making my own things,'' she once said. ''I put them in my first collection, and everybody went wild.''
        The most famous palazzo pajamas of all were the ones worn by Claudia Cardinale in the original version of ''The Pink Panther'' (1963). They have frequently been exhibited in Italian fashion retrospectives, including one at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York in 1985 and one in Rome this year.
        Princess Irene Galitzine was born in 1916 in Tiflis, Russia (now called Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia). Her father, Prince Boris Galitzine, was an official of the imperial guard, and her mother was Princess Nina Lazareff. When she was 10 months old, her family went into exile during the Bolshevik Revolution, moving to Rome, where they bought a house overlooking the Spanish Steps.
        The young princess received a lavish education, learning English at Cambridge and French at the Sorbonne. She worked briefly translating English-language film dialogues, but after studying art and design in Rome, she became an assistant, in 1943, to the Fontana sisters, who operated the most successful Italian couture house of the time.
        The princess then started a business importing and reproducing French designs, favoring the collections of Balenciaga and Dior. She married Silvio Médici de Menezes, a Portuguese aristocrat, in 1949.
        The princess began casually designing evening wear for herself and her prominent friends, including Jacqueline Kennedy and the actresses Elizabeth Taylor and Audrey Hepburn, and eventually decided to work as a designer. Her first show was in 1959, which was an immediate success. She was not as skilled at running a business, however. The company declared bankruptcy in 1968 and then was resurrected several times by manufacturing companies that produced her designs less expensively and in larger quantities.
        In the 1990's, the princess returned to Russia several times and opened a store in Moscow in 1996. Fashion and home designs are still manufactured under her name under several licenses in Europe.
        Her experience was chronicled in a biography, ''From Russia to Russia,'' published in 1996.
      