
        Petra Cabot, whose first and deepest love was painting but whose most famous work was an insulated pail covered with plaid, the ubiquitous Skotch Kooler of the 1950s, died on Oct. 13 at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 99.
        Her friend Nancy Kline announced the death. Ms. Cabot also had a home in Manhattan.
        The Skotch Kooler, copyrighted in 1952, was made by the Hamilton Metal Products Company of Hamilton, Ohio. It could keep ice cream firm for two to three hours without ice and was handy for a fishing trip: it kept groceries cold on the way to the lake and fish cold on the way back.
        The container held four gallons and had three layers of insulation: one of fiberglass, one of inert air and a heat-reflecting outer surface. It was airtight and waterproof and, long before the practice was common, it carried the signature of its designer. (Knockoff versions, without the signature, were made as far away as Thailand.) The coolers are now popular collectibles.
        ''I decided to make the best-looking bucket anybody ever saw,'' Ms. Cabot said, according to an interview several years ago with Ms. Kline's mother, Polly Kline.
        Emma Mearns, who later changed her name to Petra (pronounced PEE-tra), was an only child born in Philadelphia on Feb. 21, 1907. She was educated in crafts and fine arts and started winning design prizes in her teens.
        She designed costumes and sets for stage productions, then spent a year painting in Europe. In the Depression years, she participated in two federally sponsored arts projects and became involved in the lively art scene in and around Woodstock. She also taught at the City and Country School in Manhattan.
        In 1945, she designed a mural depicting the history of the National Maritime Union. It occupied 840 square feet of wall space in the union's Manhattan offices, now a hotel, and was a montage of newspaper clippings and photographs.
        From 1938 until 1950, she worked for the designer Russel Wright, who brought modernism to the American home with his inexpensive, mass-produced dinnerware, furniture, appliances and textiles. One of Ms. Cabot's first assignments for Wright was the food pavilion at the New York World's Fair of 1939, which received favorable mention from critics.
        Ms. Cabot married Laurence Jordan, a poet, when she was 19; the marriage ended in divorce in 1931. In 1937, she married Blake Cabot, a medical writer and publisher, who died in 1974. She left no immediate survivors.
      