
        Former Representative Helen P. Chenoweth-Hage of Idaho, an archconservative who ridiculed the Endangered Species Act and the protection of salmon in her own state and called for disbanding large parts of the federal government, died on Monday in a car accident in Nevada. She was 68.
        Rocky Gonzalez, a spokesman for the Nevada Highway Patrol, said Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage, a passenger in a sport utility vehicle, died when it overturned on a remote northern Nevada highway about an hour's drive from her ranch in Monitor Valley, Nev., where she had moved five years ago.
        She was traveling with her daughter-in-law, Yelena Hage, and Ms. Hage's 5-month-old son, Bryan Hage, who survived with minor injuries.
        Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage was elected in 1994 as part of the Republican takeover of the House and served three terms, from 1995 to 2001, representing Idaho's First Congressional District.
        She said she did not condone violence against the federal government, which militias and racial separatists in her largely rural district called for, but she had a reputation as a sagebrush rebel who sometimes sympathized with their causes.
        She said she thought that the federal government asserted too much claim to Western land and resources and intruded on personal liberties. In a 1996 interview with The New York Times, she declared support for the South's position in the Civil War, as a ''state's rights issue.'' But she said she opposed slavery and would distance herself from racist groups and militias that regularly hailed her.
        Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage received national attention for mocking the Endangered Species Act, saying it applied to white males, and, during her first campaign, in 1994, holding what she called endangered-salmon bakes. She served canned salmon and complained about the presence of Idaho salmon on the endangered species list.
        Her suspicion of the federal government led her to advocate the elimination of the Education, Energy, Commerce and Housing Departments, and she accused Fish and Wildlife agents of harassing ranchers with helicopters. She later conceded she had little evidence of that.
        As much as liberals and environmentalists loathed her -- ''Can Helen, Not Salmon'' went one bumper sticker -- supporters admired what they considered a principled, call-it-as-I-see-it manner.
        She was born Helen Palmer in Topeka, Kan., on Jan. 27, 1938, grew up in Grants Pass, Ore., and attended Whitworth College in Spokane, Wash., before moving to the northern Idaho town of Orofino.
        While at Whitworth, she met and married Nick Chenoweth, and they had two children, Mike and Meg Chenoweth-Keenan, of Boise, Idaho, who survive her, along with several grandchildren.
        The couple divorced in 1975, and Mrs. Chenoweth moved to Boise, becoming active in politics and serving for a time as executive director of the Idaho Republican Party and then as chief of staff to Representative Steven D. Symms.
        She scored an upset in the 1994 Republican primary over David H. Leroy, a former state attorney general, and went on to defeat the Democratic incumbent.
        In 1999, she married Wayne Hage Sr., a Nevada rancher prominent in the movement to expand private property rights. He died in June.
        Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage left office fulfilling a promise, in the spirit of the Contract With America's call for term limits, not to serve more than three terms.
      