
        Mary Orr, an actress and writer whose first short story, about a scheming ingénue named Eve Harrington, became the Oscar-winning film ''All About Eve,'' died on Sept. 22 in Manhattan. She was 95.
        The cause was pneumonia, her niece Jessica Ivan said. Ms. Orr, who used the name Mary Orr Denham in private life, was a longtime resident of Manhattan.
        Titled ''The Wisdom of Eve,'' Ms. Orr's story appeared in the May 1946 issue of Cosmopolitan. The film version, written and directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, was released in 1950. It starred Bette Davis as the theatrical grande dame Margo Channing and Anne Baxter as Eve. The movie won six Academy Awards, including best picture, best director and best screenplay.
        Just nine pages long, Ms. Orr's story was fleshed out considerably to make a feature-length film. But in her version, the familiar antagonists are already in place: the insidious Eve, and the eminent actress -- Ms. Orr called her Margola Cranston -- whom Eve cultivates and soon betrays. The role of the caddish drama critic Addison DeWitt, for which George Sanders won an Oscar, was invented for the film.
        ''A young girl is on her way to Hollywood with a contract for one thousand dollars a week from a major film company in her pocketbook,'' Ms. Orr's story begins. It continues: ''In a year or two I am sure Miss Harrington will be as much of a household word to you as Ingrid Bergman or Joan Fontaine.''
        The short story is narrated by a playwright's young wife (Celeste Holm in the film), who becomes entangled with Eve. In the movie, Eve gets her comeuppance, but in Ms. Orr's version, she gets away with everything, including the narrator's husband.
        By all accounts, there really was an Eve. In 1943, a play called ''The Two Mrs. Carrolls'' opened on Broadway, starring the noted Viennese actress Elisabeth Bergner. It was directed by Reginald Denham, whom Ms. Orr would marry in 1947.
        Night after night, as Ms. Bergner later told Ms. Orr, a waiflike young woman stood outside the stage door. Taking pity on her, Ms. Bergner eventually invited the woman into her dressing room and later engaged her as a secretary.
        As recounted by Sam Staggs in ''All About 'All About Eve' '' (St. Martin's, 2000), the woman repaid Ms. Bergner by trying to take over both her acting career and her husband, the director Paul Czinner.
        After hearing Ms. Bergner's tale, Ms. Orr wrote it up and sold it to Cosmopolitan for $800. In 1949 a radio dramatization of the story, written by Ms. Orr and broadcast on NBC, caught Hollywood's attention.
        Ms. Orr, who was paid $5,000 for the film rights, received no onscreen credit. (Her original story was credited, however, when ''Applause,'' a musical version of ''All About Eve,'' opened on Broadway in 1970. The musical starred Lauren Bacall as Margo and Penny Fuller as Eve.)
        Mary Caswell Orr was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 21, 1910, and moved with her family to Canton, Ohio, as a girl. She attended Syracuse University before enrolling at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.
        With her husband, Ms. Orr wrote four plays that opened on Broadway. The first and most successful, ''Wallflower,'' ran for 192 performances in 1944. She also acted in several Broadway productions, among them ''The Desperate Hours'' in 1955.
        Ms. Orr's husband, Mr. Denham, died in 1983. Besides her niece, Ms. Ivan, of Hartville, Ohio, she is survived by another niece, Lenschen Witte, of Alliance, Ohio, and three step-grandchildren.
        In its July 1951 issue, Cosmopolitan published another story by Ms. Orr. Titled ''More About Eve,'' it picks up three years after ''The Wisdom of Eve'' leaves off. After middling success in Hollywood, Eve Harrington is back in New York, determined to revive her career. How she does so makes her earlier evil deeds look like child's play.
      