
        Elizabeth Allen, a leading actress on Broadway and in movies who got her start as the ''Away we go!'' girl on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' in the 1950's, died Sept. 19 in Fishkill, N.Y. She was 77.
        The cause was kidney failure, her sister-in-law, Marion Gillease, said.
        Ms. Allen played major roles in five Broadway shows and in six movies, appeared on numerous television shows, including ''Kojak'' and ''Mannix,'' and sang at the Stork Club in New York. She was twice nominated for Tony Awards: in 1962 for best featured actress in a musical in ''The Gay Life,'' and in 1965 for best actress in a musical in ''Do I Hear a Waltz?''
        Elizabeth Ellen Gillease was born on Jan. 25, 1929, in Jersey City, the daughter of Viola and Joseph Gillease. Her marriage in 1953 to a German baron, Karl von Vietinghoff-Scheel, ended in divorce. She left no immediate survivors.
        As a teenager, Ms. Gillease, a tall, willowy brunette, was noticed by a photographer as she walked on Madison Avenue. That led to a five-year career as a fashion model. In 1953, she tried out for a bit part on the Gleason show and was chosen instead to introduce the program with what became its trademark proclamation, ''And away we go!''
        While on the Gleason show, Ms. Allen also worked as a costume designer for a production of ''Hamlet'' by the Helen Hayes Equity Group. One day, Ms. Allen recalled, Ms. Hayes noticed that she unwaveringly would watch every rehearsal and said to her, ''I think you're in the wrong end of the business.'' Ms. Allen began playing roles with the company's national touring troupe.
        Her big break came on a Saturday night in October 1957. While working in an industrial show in Detroit, Ms. Allen received a phone call asking her to return to New York to read for the role of Juliet in the Peter Ustinov comedy ''Romanoff and Juliet.'' The show was scheduled to open in five days, but there had been difficulty with the actress cast as Juliet. Ms. Allen had been recommended by Jack Manning, the director of the Hayes touring troupe.
        She flew to New York on a Sunday and read for Mr. Ustinov and the producer David Merrick on Monday. Wherever she went during the next three days, including while her hair was being dyed red, she was trailed by someone helping her memorize the script. On Thursday night, the show opened.
        Ms. Allen's Broadway roles and television appearances led to her Hollywood career. Among other major film roles, she played in ''Diamond Head'' with Charlton Heston, in ''Donovan's Reef'' with John Wayne and in ''From the Terrace'' with Paul Newman.
        In 1965, Ms. Allen received her best-actress Tony nomination for the role of Leona Samish in Richard Rodgers's musical ''Do I Hear a Waltz?,'' about an American secretary seeking, but not quite finding, romance while on vacation in Venice.
        ''I hated being remembered as the 'Away we go!' girl,'' Ms. Allen once said. ''Now I love it, because so many people liked it. It's flattering.''
      