
        Danièle Huillet, the French-born filmmaker who, in collaboration with her husband, Jean-Marie Straub, created some of the most challenging and intensely debated motion pictures of the modernist era, died on Monday at the home of friends in the Loire Valley in France. She was 70.
        The cause was cancer, Agence France-Presse reported. Ms. Huillet, who lived in Rome with her husband, was visiting France for treatment of her illness.
        Their latest film, ''Ces Rencontres Avec Eux'' (''These Encounters With Them''), is scheduled to open in France on Wednesday. In the film, nonprofessional actors recite from the Italian writer Cesare Pavese's ''Dialogues With Leuco'' while standing in a forest. It was presented in competition in September at the Venice Film Festival, where the couple received a special award for ''the innovative aspect of the cinematographic language'' of their body of work.
        Among the best-known films of Straub-Huillet, as the couple was known in critical shorthand, are ''The Chronicle of Anna-Magdalena Bach'' (1967), an approach to the life and work of Johann Sebastian Bach as seen through the journals of his wife; and ''Class Relations,'' a 1984 film based on Franz Kafka's unfinished novel, ''America.''
        As filmmakers, Mr. Straub and Ms. Huillet belonged to the generation that produced the French New Wave, although their work took a radically different direction. Their aesthetic, grounded in the philosophical materialism of Marx and Engels, was one of extreme realism that resisted superfluous embellishments and editing effects. Their work has been extensively analyzed and argued about in many books and film journals.
        Shooting most often in black-and-white, in extreme long takes either from a fixed camera position or in carefully choreographed tracking shots, the filmmakers tried to be faithful to the landscapes or interiors in which their films were set, presenting them whole, with little editing or distortions of spatial relationships.
        The texts they chose were taken from both classical sources (Pierre Corneille for ''Othon,'' 1969) and modern ones (Arnold Schoenberg's opera ''Aaron and Moses,'' filmed in 1975). Read by a narrator, either onscreen or off, the texts were placed in counterpoint to concrete images, creating a sense of language as a solid, sensual phenomenon itself.
        Danièle Huillet (pronounced hwee-YAY) was born in Paris on May 1, 1936, and attended the Lycée Jules Ferry. She gained a reputation for intellectual independence early. According to one often-cited anecdote, when applying to Idhec, as France's national film school was known in the 1950's, she refused to submit the required entrance essay on the grounds that the film she was asked to analyze, Yves Allégret's ''Manèges,'' was unworthy of serious consideration.
        In 1954, she met and soon married Mr. Straub, a kindred spirit from Lorraine. She later joined him in exile in Germany when Mr. Straub left France rather than serve in the Algerian war. It was there that the couple made their first short film, ''Machorka-Muff'' (1963), and their first feature, ''Not Reconciled'' (1965), both based on texts by the novelist Heinrich Böll about the survival of Nazism in postwar German life.
        Their next film, ''The Chronicle of Anna-Magdalena Bach,'' was their first international success. It remains the only Straub-Huillet film available on DVD in the United States. Shot largely in the actual locations where Bach lived and worked, and featuring the musician Gustav Leonhardt playing period instruments, the film created a moving contrast between the material conditions of Bach's life and the transcendent quality of his music.
        In the 1970's, the pair moved to Rome, where they established a famously disordered household filled with the stray cats and dogs that they could not resist taking in. They had no children. Italy quickly became part of their cultural storehouse, and they made their first film based on Pavese's writing, ''From the Clouds to the Resistance,'' in 1979.
        Famously combative, solidly built and never without a Brechtian cigar, Mr. Straub enjoyed playing bad cop at festival press conferences to Ms. Huillet's softer, more conciliatory personality.
        Never willing to abide by the rules of commercial filmmaking, the couple financed their work through an elaborate network of film and television producers, often underwritten by state film funds. Even as they became institutions on the festival and museum circuit, they projected the brash, provocative aspect of eternal Young Turks, always willing to upset any and all apple carts in the immediate vicinity.
        In a tribute published yesterday in the French newspaper Libération, the critic Olivier Seguret expressed the fears of many admirers of Straub-Huillet: ''Dead, Danièle Huillet kills us twice, because her passing probably means that Straub will never film again.''
      