
        Wang Guangmei, the widow of President Liu Shaoqi and a powerful figure in China before she was imprisoned during the Cultural Revolution, died Friday in Beijing. She was 85.
        Her death was confirmed by a family member.
        Ms. Wang was once widely known in China as its beautiful, articulate, sophisticated first lady.
        Liu Shaoqi was president from 1959 to 1967, when he became one of the first high-level officials to be denounced as a ''capitalist roader'' and purged by Mao during the Cultural Revolution.
        Mr. Liu died in prison in 1969, after being beaten and tortured. Ms. Wang was also arrested and accused of being an American spy.
        In some of the uglier scenes of the decade-long Cultural Revolution, which began in 1966, she was publicly humiliated at mass rallies by a group of Red Guards who forced her to wear a necklace of Ping-Pong balls.
        After Mao's death in 1976, Mr. Liu was rehabilitated by the Communist Party, and the notorious Gang of Four, who were accused of conspiring on Mao's behalf, were imprisoned and put on trial.
        Ms. Wang spent about 12 years in prison, and her four children were also harshly treated. She was released in 1979, just before Mao's wife, Jiang Qing, a leader of the Gang of Four, was put on trial and accused of leading the effort to destroy President Liu and his wife.
        Wang Guangmei was born in 1921 and grew up in a distinguished and prominent Chinese family. Her father was a government minister and a diplomat; her mother was an educator.
        Ms. Wang studied French, Russian and English, and earned a degree in physics from Furen Catholic University in Beijing. She also studied at an American missionary university.
        In the mid-1940's, however, she traveled to the Communist Party headquarters in Yanan and served as an interpreter during efforts by the American statesman George C. Marshall to negotiate a truce between the Nationalist government and the Communist rebels.
        There, at the age of 24, she met Liu Shaoqi, who was nearly twice her age and had married five times before.
        For years she served as his secretary, and he was named a key deputy to Mao after the Communists took power in 1949. In 1959 Mr. Liu was named president, making him the second most powerful man in the country.
        In the early 1960's, the couple traveled abroad on state visits to Afghanistan, Burma, Pakistan and Indonesia.
        But in 1966, Ms. Wang was part of a group that purged the party leadership of Tsinghua University, and the effort backfired when she came under attack by a militant opponent who accused her of being a counterrevolutionary. This came at a time when her husband was also under fire by Mao and his deputies as being the leading ''capitalist roader.''
        Jiang Qing, Mao's fifth wife, was said to be jealous and angry with Ms. Wang and to have complained about the way she dressed, noting that she even wore a pearl necklace on a trip abroad.
        The disgraced Mr. Liu died in prison. Ms. Wang was put under house arrest, then imprisoned. Her four children were also punished.
        After she was released from prison in 1979, however, she was appointed a member of the National People's Congress standing committee, and she devoted herself to social causes. She even donated some of her family's valuable antiques, a few dating back to the Qing and Song dynasties, to charity.
        She is survived by four children, some of whom have risen to prominent positions.
        Her eldest son, Lt. Gen. Liu Yuan, was appointed a political commissar of the Academy of Military Sciences, a rank equivalent to a cabinet minister, according to Reuters.
        Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      