
        Sally Lilienthal, who established one of the largest American foundations dedicated to preventing the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died at a hospital in San Francisco on Oct. 24. She was 87.
        Her death came after an extended illness, said Deborah Bain, an administrator of the Ploughshares Fund, the organization Ms. Lilienthal founded.
        Ms. Lilienthal set up the fund in 1981, a year when NATO announced plans to place medium-range missiles in Europe, and an international nuclear-freeze movement was born. She envisioned the foundation as a way to get money quickly to people with practical ideas for stopping the buildup of nuclear weapons.
        Since its founding, the Ploughshares Fund has given more than $40 million to research scientists, academics and civic groups for projects to improve the monitoring of underground nuclear tests, prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, reorient Russian nuclear weapons facilities and increase international cooperation. It has also been active in the campaign to abolish land mines.
        ''The Ploughshares Fund moves faster than almost anyone else,'' said George Perkovich, a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''More traditional foundations usually need a very clear sense of a prospect's institutional history. Ploughshares sees a promising person and puts its money down.''
        Ms. Lilienthal was involved in other political and philanthropic causes. In the 1960s and '70s, she was on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California, and, in 1971, she became a founder of the Northern California Committee of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund Inc.
        She was also appointed to the San Francisco Arts Commission in the early 1960s.
        Born Sally Ann Lowengart in 1919 in Portland, Ore., she graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in 1940.
        She is survived by five children from her marriage to Arthur J. Cohen, who died in 1953, and two stepchildren from her marriage to Philip Lilienthal, who died in 1984: Laurie Cohen, Liza Pike and Thomas Cohen of Mill Valley, Calif., Matthew Royce of San Francisco, Steven Cohen of Berkeley, Calif., Sukey Lilienthal of Oakland, and Andrea Lilienthal of Brooklyn. She is also survived by 11 grandchildren.
      