
        Florence Klotz, who won six Tony Awards for designing some of the most memorable costumes in recent Broadway history, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86.
        The cause was heart failure, said her lawyer, Mark Sendroff.
        With a flair for period dress and an obsession with detail and authenticity, Ms. Klotz created outfits that ranged from the opulent beaded showgirl costumes of ''Follies'' to the ornate 19th century Japanese robes of ''Pacific Overtures'' to the slinky, webbed dress that Chita Rivera wore in ''Kiss of the Spider Woman.''
        Though she designed the costumes for successful plays like ''Take Her, She's Mine,'' ''The Owl and the Pussycat'' and the 1981 revival of ''Little Foxes'' starring Elizabeth Taylor and Maureen Stapleton, Ms. Klotz preferred musicals.
        Her most fruitful and rewarding collaboration was with the director Harold Prince. They first worked together on the short-lived 1961 play ''A Call on Kuprin,'' which Mr. Prince produced and George Abbott directed. Ms. Klotz's breakthrough came in 1971 with the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies,'' which Mr. Prince directed and produced.
        With the ghostly shadows of the Ziegfeld era as the musical's backdrop, Ms. Klotz created a surreal tableau of three-foot-high ostrich feather headdresses, Marie Antoinette wigs adorned with musical instruments and birdcages and gowns embellished with translucent butterfly wings.
        Clive Barnes, writing in The New York Times, called Ms. Klotz's designs ''the best costumes to be seen on Broadway.'' She won a Tony Award later that year.
        ''Follies'' was only the start of her success with Prince-directed shows: she went on to win Tony Awards for her designs in ''A Little Night Music'' (1973), ''Pacific Overtures'' (1976), ''Grind'' (1985), ''Kiss of the Spider Woman'' (1993) and the 1994 revival of ''Show Boat.''
        ''That had 585 costumes,'' she said of the ''Show Boat'' revival in an interview with the Theatermania.com Web site in 2002. ''The time period ranged from 1896 to 1926, so I had to do a lot of research. I don't know how they could afford to do a show like that; the laundry bill alone must have been astronomical.''
        Ms. Klotz, a petite but forceful woman who was known as Flossie to her friends, also had a friendly relationship with Ms. Taylor. In addition to working with her on the 1977 film version of ''A Little Night Music''--for which Ms. Klotz was nominated for an Academy Award -- Ms. Taylor asked Ms. Klotz to design the lavender dress she wore for her wedding to Senator John Warner in 1976.
        Ms. Klotz was born in Brooklyn on October 28, 1920. After graduating from Parsons School of Design, Ms. Klotz went to work painting fabrics for Brooks Costumes. In 1951, Irene Sharaff asked her to assist on the costume designs for the original production of ''The King and I,'' and Ms. Klotz's design career took off.
        ''I thought it was so glamorous,'' she recalled in a 1981 interview with The Washington Post. ''I didn't smell the greasepaint, but I was hooked.''
        Ms. Klotz is survived by her niece, Suzanne DeMarco; her companion, the producer and stage manager Ruth Mitchell, died in 2000.
        Correction:  November 4, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with an obituary about a Broadway costume designer who won six Tony Awards misstated her surname at one point. She was Florence Klotz, not Katz.
      