
        Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif.
        Her death was confirmed by her son, Charles E. Carey.
        ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' which became a best seller when it was published in 1948, beguiled readers with the autobiographical details of the Gilbreths, a family in the 1920's dominated by Dad but discreetly monitored by Mother. The book, replicated in numerous editions since its publication, is a testament to the intelligence, energy and eccentricity of the Gilbreth parents, who ran the family's management consulting firm.
        The business focused on the science of motion study and industrial efficiencies. Frank Bunker Gilbreth believed that the factory management principles he espoused to his clients could also be applied to his family of six girls and six boys, produced in 17 years; Lillian Moller Gilbreth, who had a Ph.D. from Brown University (earned around 1915, while she had several children at home), was an industrial psychologist and an engineering expert. Mr. Gilbreth died of a heart attack in 1924 at 55, the day after Mrs. Carey graduated from high school; his wife died in 1972 at 93.
        Mrs. Carey's brother Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr. received first billing as a co-author, and the book's narrative voice is decidedly unified, never betraying who wrote what. Nevertheless, Mrs. Carey wrote other books (as did her brother, who died in 2001), including ''Jumping Jupiter,'' ''Rings Around Us'' and ''Giddy Moment.''
        The charming havoc of ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' found a wide audience just after World War II. Mrs. Carey and her brother mined a rich vein of humorous and quirky material from the Gilbreth clan. Mrs. Carey, the third child, and Frank, the fifth, plumbed what appeared to be the best of living in a brood that size.
        An outing in their Pierce-Arrow, with Dad at the wheel and babies tucked in the front seat near Mother in the days before seat belts, felt ''like a back somersault off the high diving board.'' The household was described as ''organized confusion,'' resembling a ''newspaper on election night.'' In their house in Montclair, N.J., servants took care of cooking and gardening, although every child was assigned to look after a younger sibling and performed other tasks.
        Given their father's penchant for order, ''nothing was considered more of a sin in our house than wasted time and motions,'' the authors wrote. Dad, though a benevolent soul, ran a household that was above all else driven to learn. Language records were played in the bathrooms while the children washed; they absorbed French and German that was later recited at the dinner table. Mealtime could be as intense as a board meeting, since ''no one could talk unless the subject was of general interest.'' Practical jokes, centered around Dad, defused the tension.
        Toward the book's end, Ern, as Mrs. Carey was called, briefly enjoyed some of the spotlight when she and her older sister, Anne (who died in 1987), began dating in high school. With her wide face and compelling gaze, she attracted many suitors. But Dad had a little trouble with this, referring to one fellow as a ''simpleton with pimples in his voice.'' That didn't stop another boy from climbing a cherry tree near Ern's bedroom to spy on her, inciting her to label him a ''sneaking Peeping Tom.''
        Hollywood wasted little time, spiriting ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' into a movie by 1950, starring Myrna Loy as Mother and Clifton Webb as Dad. It was remade and modernized in 2003 with Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt as the parents, with ''Cheaper by the Dozen 2'' appearing in 2005. The Gilbreth brother-and-sister team also wrote ''Belles on Their Toes,'' a 1950 sequel that was turned into a movie in 1952. In July of this year Mrs. Carey finished writing a memoir but did not want to talk about it prematurely for fear of ''bad luck.''
        Mrs. Carey graduated from Smith College in 1929, with a degree in English. She worked as a department-store buyer and in management in New York City for 14 years, marrying Charles E. Carey, who died in 1986, and having two children. Her own mother eventually lived with Mrs. Carey, after a long career of mothering, teaching, writing and consulting. Mrs. Carey also gathered her mother's extensive papers and photographs to donate them to Smith College.
        Mrs. Carey is survived by two brothers, Frederick Gilbreth of Larchmont, N.Y., and Robert Gilbreth, of Franklin, N.H.; her children Charles E. Carey of Livermore, Calif., and Lillian Barley of Riverdale, Calif.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      