
        Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J.
        The death was confirmed by Brian McNamara of Gutterman & Musicant Funeral Directors in Hackensack, N.J.
        Around 1960, while sitting on their couch in the Bronx, Mr. and Mrs. Mattus fabricated the foreign-sounding name. It was Mr. Mattus's idea to include a map of Denmark on the carton and to put an umlaut over the first ''a'' in Häagen, even though no umlaut is used in Danish.
        In the company's early years, Mrs. Mattus, the company's controller, built the business by going to bodegas and grocery stores to offer free samples. By 1983, when Häagen-Dazs was acquired by Pillsbury for $70 million, the company had a strong presence in supermarkets, a coast-to-coast string of franchise ice cream shops and sales of about $115 million a year. It is now owned by Nestlé.
        ''Rose was a true partner of her husband in operating the business, making decisions,'' said Roy Sloane, the company's advertising manager until 1987. ''Reuben was a true dairy expert, a bug about quality. Rose basically ran the business, holding the company together and making it possible for a dreamer like Reuben to be successful.''
        Mr. Mattus died in 1994.
        Rose Vesel Mattus was born in Poland on Nov. 23, 1916. She arrived in the United States in 1921; her future husband emigrated from Poland later the same year. They met while teenagers on the streets of Brownsville, Brooklyn.
        Mrs. Mattus is survived by 2 daughters, Doris Hurley and Natalie Salamore; 2 brothers, Edward and Robert Vesel; 5 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
        By the mid-1920's, Mr. Mattus and his widowed mother were making ice cream on Southern Boulevard in the South Bronx; he delivered it to neighborhood stores by horse-drawn wagon.
        Mr. and Mrs. Mattus were married in 1936, and soon after she began working for the family business. The company was profitable for decades, but burst onto the national scene only after the new name was concocted.
        At the time, most supermarket ice cream was made with artificial flavoring and nonfat dry milk, while Häagen-Dazs used egg yolks and real cream, as well as ingredients like Belgian chocolate, vanilla beans from Madagascar and coffee from Colombia.
        ''Eventually, we were buying entire valleys of strawberries in Oregon,'' Mr. Sloane said.
        Correction:  January 29, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Dec. 1 about Rose Mattus, who with her husband created Häagen-Dazs Ice Cream, misidentified the company that owns the brand. It is General Mills, not Nestlé. (General Mills has licensed Nestlé to sell some of its brands in the United States and Canada.)
      