
        Dr. Jeanne A. Smith, a former top administrator at Harlem Hospital Center and an expert on sickle cell anemia who helped establish broader federal guidelines for testing newborns for the disease, died on Nov. 11 in Lewisboro, N.Y. She was 75.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, her family said.
        In the 1970s, '80s and '90s, Dr. Smith, a hematologist, led several studies that were financed by the National Institutes of Health and contributed to changes in federal recommendations in screening for and aggressively treating sickle cell anemia and related diseases.
        Sickle cell anemia is a genetic disorder in which crescent-shaped red blood cells can lodge in blood vessels, starving the body's tissues of oxygen and leading to infection, organ damage or stroke. The disease is most prevalent in blacks, and the sickle cell trait is present in about 8 percent of African-Americans.
        In 1993, Dr. Smith was co-chairman of a federal panel that called for more intensive screening that would include infants and children in families of Middle Eastern, Mediterranean and South American origin. The panel further recommended that infants with the disease be given vaccinations and daily treatments of penicillin to prevent infections. The guidelines were accepted by the American Academy of Pediatrics, and were widely adopted.
        Dr. Clarice D. Reid, a pediatrician and chief of the sickle cell disease branch of the National Institutes of Health from 1975 to 1994, praised Dr. Smith's expertise in evaluating clinical trials and said that her ''keen diagnostic acumen'' had led to ''a no-nonsense approach to tackling sickle cell anemia and other challenges, including advocating for patients and informing them about the disease.''
        Beginning in the 1970s, Dr. Smith served as a co-principal investigator on a benchmark N.I.H. study that followed sickle cell patients from infancy into adolescence and adulthood. Dr. Reid said that the study followed primarily black patients, tracking their nutrition, growth and development, and became an important means for comparing the severity of the disease in patients over time.
        Jeanne Allen Smith was born in Manhattan. She graduated from Sarah Lawrence College and earned her medical degree from New York University in 1957. She later received a master's degree in public health from Columbia.
        Dr. Smith joined Harlem Hospital in 1968 and served as president of its medical board from 1984 to 1987. She was a director of the hospital's sickle cell center and also taught at Columbia. She retired in 2002.
        Dr. Smith's husband, Russell F. Smith Jr., died in 1983. The couple lived in Englewood, N.J., where Dr. Smith was president of the Board of Health in the 1980s. Earlier, in the 1970s, she served as president of Englewood's Board of Education.
        She is survived by two sons, Russell F. Smith III of Clinton, Md., and David Smith of Kansas City, Mo.; five grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      