
        Galina Ustvolskaya, a Russian composer of expressive and often forceful works who studied with Shostakovich, and whose music has found an enthusiastic audience in the West since the early 1990s, died on Dec. 22 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 87.
        Her death was announced online by International Music Publishers Hans Sikorski.
        Ms. Ustvolskaya was an enigmatic and largely reclusive composer who produced a compact but rich body of music. Among her works are five symphonies (all with solo vocal writing), six piano sonatas, a piano concerto and numerous chamber works for unusual instrumental combinations. Her ''Dona Nobis Pacem,'' for example, is scored for piccolo, tuba and piano; a ''Dies Irae'' is for eight double basses, percussion and piano.
        Galina Ivanovna Ustvolskaya was born in St. Petersburg (then called Petrograd) on June 17, 1919, and she studied composition there (when it was Leningrad) from 1937 to 1947. Shostakovich was among her teachers, and he regarded her as a supremely talented composer: in addition to declaring that her music would ''be valued by all who perceive truth in music to be of paramount importance,'' he quoted a theme from her 1949 Trio for Clarinet, Violin and Piano in two works of his own, the String Quartet No. 5 and the ''Immortality'' movement of his ''Suite on Verses of Michelangelo Buonarroti.''
        But her relationship with Shostakovich was complex. Elizabeth Wilson, in ''Shostakovich: A Life Remembered,'' writes that from at least the late 1940s it was romantic as well as collegial, and that Shostakovich proposed marriage to Ms. Ustvolskaya in the 1950s, after his first wife died. She declined, and although they maintained what she once described as an on-and-off relationship thereafter, later in life Ms. Ustvolskaya vehemently rejected the notion of Shostakovich's influence on her.
        Her stylistic hallmarks changed radically through the years: in the 1940s and 1950s she sometimes drew themes from Russian folk music, and, like Shostakovich, had both a public style, for concert works and film scores filled with the grand gestures that pleased the Soviet regime, and a more introspective private style in which she expressed herself more directly. The public works won her early official acclaim, including an All Union Prize for ''The Hero's Exploit'' (1959).
        In the 1960s, though, she abandoned the public style entirely, and in the 1970s she became drawn to religious symbolism and biblical texts, though she is said not to have been particularly religious. Her language is essentially tonal, if acid-tinged, and full of appealingly angular themes. Yet there is also a fury in her music that finds expression in solid, dissonant chords that are usually sharply articulated and repeated several times to create a violently passionate effect. Elmer Schoenberger, a Dutch critic, called her ''the lady with the hammer.''
        In 1995, Alex Ross wrote in The New York Times: ''Ms. Ustvolskaya is to be approached with caution. She may inspire admiration, or she may inspire frustration, even revulsion. Woe to the pleasure-seeking listener who spots certain religiose titles -- 'Dona Nobis Pacem,' 'Amen,' 'Dies Irae' -- and expects a Mystic Minimalist after the fashion of Henryk Gorecki or Arvo Pärt. This is religiosity with hard edges, penance for esoteric sin. Forms emerge from pitch-blackness only when the eyes have become accustomed to the lack of light.''
      