
        Nellie Y. McKay, a distinguished scholar and critic who helped secure a place for African-American women in the modern literary canon, died last Sunday at a hospice in Fitchburg, Wis. She was a resident of Madison, Wis., and was believed to have been in her mid-70's.
        The cause was cancer, said Craig Werner, chairman of the Afro-American studies department at the University of Wisconsin, where Ms. McKay was Evjue professor of American and African-American literature.
        An authority on black American literature of the 19th and 20th centuries, Professor McKay specialized in the study of fiction, autobiography and, especially, women's writing. She was known in particular for the Norton Anthology of African American Literature, of which she was a general editor with Henry Louis Gates Jr.
        ''She was the central figure in the establishing of black women's studies as a presence in academic and intellectual life,'' Professor Werner said in a telephone interview yesterday.
        The anthology, published in 1997, was widely credited with codifying the black American literary canon for the first time. The book, which generated considerable attention in the news media, was assigned in college courses worldwide and also proved popular with a general readership. Nearly 200,000 copies are currently in print, the publisher said yesterday.
        At more than 2,600 pages, the anthology spans black literature from the earliest Negro spirituals to late-20th-century writers like Gloria Naylor, Terry McMillan and Walter Mosley. It was published in a second edition in 2004, adding the work of younger writers like Edwidge Danticat and Colson Whitehead.
        ''It's very necessary that we do this to establish the centrality of the African-American experience,'' Professor McKay told The New York Times in 1996. ''There needed to be a book that gave a coherent text of African-American literature.''
        Nellie Yvonne Reynolds was born in Queens to parents who had come from Jamaica in the West Indies. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Queens College in 1969, a master's in English and American literature from Harvard in 1971 and a Ph.D. in the same field from Harvard in 1977. She joined the Wisconsin faculty the next year; at her death, she held a joint appointment in the English and Afro-American studies departments, and also taught in the women's studies department.
        As she and her contemporaries discovered during their student years, it was nearly impossible to study literature by black writers, male or female, in a university classroom in the late 1960's. Students interested in the subject, as she often said afterward, had to learn from one another.
        ''Today, no self-respecting English department would dare not teach African-American literature,'' Mr. Gates, the W. E. B. Du Bois professor of the humanities at Harvard, said in an interview. ''But when Nellie was a student, that wasn't the case. Black literature courses were few and far between.''
        If black male writers were largely absent from the curriculum, black female writers were even more so. Professor Werner, of Wisconsin, recalled trying to assign Zora Neale Hurston's novel ''Their Eyes Were Watching God'' in the late 1970's, only to discover it was out of print.
        That college students today routinely encounter Hurston, along with Alice Walker, Toni Morrison, Rita Dove and many others, is due in no small part to Professor McKay's work, several of her colleagues said.
        Among Professor McKay's other books are ''Jean Toomer, Artist: A Study of His Literary Life and Work, 1894-1936'' (University of North Carolina, 1984); ''Critical Essays on Toni Morrison'' (G. K. Hall, 1988), a collection she edited; and the Norton Critical Edition, published in 2001, of Harriet Jacobs's ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' which she edited with Frances Smith Foster.
        Throughout her life, Professor McKay was circumspect about the date of her birth; accounts of her age in obituaries this week ranged from 59 to 75. In interviews yesterday, several colleagues said she had most likely been in her mid-70's.
        Professor McKay, who was divorced as a young woman, is survived by a sister, Constance Prout of Hollywood, Fla.; two children, Patricia Watson of St. Louis and Harry McKay of New York; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild.
      