
        Jill Fraser, owner and artistic director of the Watermill Theater in Newbury, England, whose renown and influence far exceeds its size, died on Feb. 10. She was 59.
        Although she had been battling cancer for four years, Ms. Fraser died of pneumonia at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading, her husband and partner in the theater, James Sargant, said.
        The couple, both of whom had deep roots in theatrical administration, bought the theater, a converted 19th-century corn, paper and water mill on the Lambourn River in West Berkshire just outside Newbury in 1981, a year after they were married.
        Almost single-handedly, she transformed it from a tiny playhouse with a 26-week repertory to a year-round theater and propelled it onto the international stage, sending productions to London's West End, Broadway and more than two dozen countries. In fact, Ms. Fraser came to New York in November for the consecutive openings of ''Sweeney Todd'' and ''A Winter's Tale,'' both of which had originated in her theater. She was known for nurturing emerging talent. One of her most successful collaborations was with Edward Hall, Sir Peter Hall's son, who established the Propeller Theater, an all-male Shakespearean troupe at the Watermill Theater.
        Not only did the couple work at the Watermill Theater, but they also made it their home. ''We lived in the miller's house; the tide barn where corn was stored is a restaurant and what was the stable is the accommodation for the people working here,'' Mr. Sargant said.
        Jill Fraser was born in London, a daughter of Alec and Guinevere Fraser. Though she decided to pursue a career in theater, unlike her parents, both actors, she preferred to work backstage, taking a stage management course at the Central School of Speech and Drama. She went on to a career in administration at institutions like the Welsh Opera, the Cambridge Theater Company and the Royal Shakespeare Company.
        She is survived by her husband; her mother; her son, Sam, 23, and her daughter, Charley, 21.
        Planning to step down by 2008, Ms. Fraser and Mr. Sargant put the theater up for sale and helped establish a trust that is raising money to buy it.
        ''We decided the time had come,'' Mr. Sargant said. ''You can get stale, which is why Jill liked working with young directors and designers. And we decided that we would not want to continue living here with everything going on around us.''
      