
        Moira Shearer, a luminous star in the galaxy of British ballerinas who brought the Royal Ballet to international attention and whose dramatic portrayal as the doomed heroine of the 1948 film ''The Red Shoes'' was searingly impressed on generations of moviegoers, died in Oxford, England, on Tuesday. She was 80.
        Her death was announced by her husband, the writer and broadcaster Ludovic Kennedy. He said Ms. Shearer had been weak since her birthday last month and died in John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, The Associated Press reported.
        ''The Red Shoes,'' often called the most popular film about ballet, threatened to overshadow Ms. Shearer's reputation as a classical dancer. A Scottish beauty with flaming red hair, she created a sensation with her performance as a London debutante who aspires to be a ballerina but is driven to suicide by leaping in front of a train in Monte Carlo.
        As Ms. Shearer said in later years, ''The Red Shoes'' was very different from the world of ballet that she knew. The image created by the film's directors, Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, was of a Russian émigré ballet troupe filled with clashing temperaments. Dominated by a tyrannical impresario inspired in part by Serge Diaghilev, the troupe's backstage life had the ring of overwrought truth. But unlike the film's heroine, Victoria Page, Ms. Shearer did not face a seemingly impossible choice between a career and a marriage. During her dancing career, she acted in films and on the stage. In later years, she wrote two books, including ''Balletmaster: A Dancer's View of George Balanchine'' (1986), and wrote a column for The Daily Telegraph.
        She also had four children, who, with her husband, survive her. They include a son, Alastair, and three daughters, Ailsa, Rachel and Fiona.
        The recently established British ballet groups that Ms. Shearer joined in the 1940's were identified with hard work and struggle, devoid of the surface glamour of the émigré companies that succeeded Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. After dancing with Mona Inglesby's Ballet International in 1941, Ms. Shearer joined Sadler's Wells Ballet, which changed its name to the Royal Ballet in 1956. Rising from the ranks to ballerina from 1942 to 1952, Ms. Shearer was identified both with leading roles in the 19th-century classics and works created by the great British choreographer Frederick Ashton. She danced the title role in the premiere of his ''Cinderella'' in 1948 and along with Margot Fonteyn and Pamela May, led his seminal neoclassical ballet ''Symphonic Variations'' in 1946.
        Ms. Shearer, however, was never considered the reigning ballerina in Sadler's Wells. That position was clearly held by Ms. Fonteyn, who was promoted from the start by Ninette de Valois, the company's founder. At least two generations of stellar dancers, including Ms. May, Ms. Shearer, Beryl Grey, Violetta Elvin and Nadia Nerina all shared roles with Ms. Fonteyn but not her status in the company.
        Born Moira Shearer King on Jan. 17, 1926, in Dumferline, Scotland, she trained with the Russian teacher Nicholas Legat and at the Sadler's Wells School. Ashton brought her to the public's attention with a major role as Pride in his ballet ''The Quest'' in 1943. She was reluctant to appear in ''The Red Shoes'' but did so at de Valois's prodding. When the Sadler's Wells Ballet made its sensational United States debut at the Metropolitan Opera House in September 1949, ticket buyers knew Ms. Shearer from ''The Red Shoes'' and thought she would be seen in ''The Sleeping Beauty'' on opening night. De Valois, however, cast her in the fourth act in the ''Bluebird'' pas de deux.
        Shortly afterward (1950) she appeared in a film version of ''The Tales of Hoffmann,'' making several other films later with and without dancing. She also appeared as a guest artist with Sadler's Wells and with Roland Petit's company. In 1954, she toured the United States as Titania in the Old Vic stage production of ''A Midsummer's Night's Dream.'' Among her other films were ''Peeping Tom,'' ''The Man Who Loved Redheads,'' ''The Story of Three Loves'' and ''Black Tights.''
        Multitalented, she was seen by John Martin of The New York Times in Ashton's ''Wedding Bouquet'' in 1949 as exhibiting ''her roguish gift for comedy in a brilliant performance.''
        Correction:  March 23, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 2 about the ballerina and movie actress Moira Shearer misspelled the name of the city where she was born. As a reader pointed out to The Times this week, it is Dunfermline, Scotland, not Dumferline.
      