
        Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 41.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, her brother, Lawrence Chaifetz, said.
        In 1998, Ms. Chaifetz joined Advocates for Children, which defends the legal rights of students in public education, and in her time there she quadrupled its staff and budget. One of its goals was the enforcement of standards for the city school system, with 1.1 million students, most of them living in poverty. She sought to empower families who were otherwise without legal resources.
        Advocates for Children, which is based in Manhattan, produced many policy papers and reports under Ms. Chaifetz's direction and provided free legal help to students who claimed they were being denied proper educations and services.
        In 2003, in one of their most important cases, Ms. Chaifetz and Advocates for Children filed lawsuits against three city high schools, charging that they illegally discharged or turned away students because of their ages, poor grades, poor attendance or pregnancy. Ms. Chaifetz said that the schools had been pushing out many struggling students in reaction to new state standards that judged schools on what percentage of students passed state exams needed to graduate.
        After months of skirmishing, the city settled the suits in 2004 and agreed to take back students who had been discharged.
        In a memorandum about the settlement, Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court said the principles involved, accepted by the city, ''set an important standard for the entire system.'' The cases, he said, ''exposed a lesion -- the alleged 'pushing out' of difficult-to-educate students -- that has been festering for many years.''
        Joel I. Klein, the city schools chancellor, whose administration was almost always on the other side of Ms. Chaifetz's recent arguments, said yesterday: ''Jill was an extraordinarily dedicated and effective children's advocate who worked tirelessly to ensure that school reform reached every child. She had a special affinity for the most vulnerable and those who most need a voice, especially children with special needs and English-language learners.''
        Ms. Chaifetz worked to help change what she saw as an ingrained culture of discrimination against poor youth.
        ''I think kids are one of the last groups of people to be recognized as having fully developed rights,'' she said in an interview in the alumni bulletin of her undergraduate school, Swarthmore College, in September.
        Ms. Chaifetz was also an adjunct professor at Fordham University School of Law.
        Ms. Chaifetz was born in New York City on July 24, 1964. She received her undergraduate degree with honors in political science from Swarthmore in 1986 and a law degree from New York University School of Law in 1989.
        Before leading Advocates for Children, Ms. Chaifetz established the legal department at the Door, a youth development agency in Manhattan, where she worked from 1992 to 1998. She had previously worked as the legislative attorney for the New York City Council and as program director of a project that helped match law students to needy causes.
        Besides her brother, her survivors include her husband, Daniel Seltzer, and their 10-year-old triplets, a daughter, Leila, and two sons, Isaac and Milo, who all have the last name Selchaif; and her parents, Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz.
      