
        Rebecca Wright, a Joffrey Ballet star in the 1960's and 70's and a ballet educator, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 58.
        The cause was cancer, said Keri Mesropov, the spokeswoman for the Washington Ballet, whose school Ms. Wright directed until her death.
        Ms. Wright performed with American Ballet Theater as a soloist from 1975 to 1982, but it was as a principal dancer with the Joffrey Ballet that she made her name. She performed there from 1966 to 1975.
        In many ways Ms. Wright was the essential Joffrey dancer. Her big eyes and wholesome prettiness inspired critics to call her ''pert'' and ''sunny.'' But her speed, lightness and strong virtuoso technique enabled her to dance just about anything, and also made her a perfect interpreter of the ballets of Gerald Arpino, whose choreography helped to establish the Joffrey as a youthful, pop ballet troupe.
        Ms. Wright originated roles in signature Arpino works including ''Trinity,'' ''Kettentanz'' and ''Confetti,'' as well as his ''Cello Concerto'' and ''Valentine.'' But she was as persuasive in the title role of John Cranko's ''Pineapple Poll'' and as the saucer-eyed Milkmaid in Sir Frederick Ashton's ''Facade,'' the gossamer fairy queen Titania in Ashton's ''Dream'' and the heartless Street Dancer in Léonide Massine's ''Beau Danube.'' Anna Kisselgoff described Ms. Wright's performance in the Massine ballet, in The New York Times in 1974, as ''an example of integrated acting and dancing at the highest level.''
        At Ballet Theater, Ms. Wright originated roles in ballets by Agnes de Mille, in Mary Skeaping's staging of ''Sleeping Beauty'' and in the company director Mikhail Baryshnikov's production of ''Don Quixote.'' She went on to dance a featured role in the Broadway musical ''Merlin'' in 1982, appeared in ''The Turning Point'' and several other films, and performed on television in shows including ''Murder She Wrote,'' ''Live From Lincoln Center'' and Edward Villella's Emmy-winning ''Harlequin.'' She also choreographed for the Dayton Ballet and university dance programs.
        Her shrewd intelligence and uncompromising yet sympathetic expectations for young dancers made her a popular teacher and director of academic programs, including the Washington School of Ballet. She was a ballet mistress and coach for Twyla Tharp in the 1980's. She directed and shaped Ballet Theater's ambitious multistate summer intensive training program from 1997 to 2003. She was also chairwoman of the Joffrey/New School University degree program in dance.
        Ms. Wright is survived by her parents, Diane and Bill Wright, and a brother, Craig, all of Dayton, Ohio, and her sons, Matthew de la Pena, of Iowa City, and Alexander de la Pena, of Chevy Chase, Md.
      