
        Tana Hoban, an accomplished photographer of children who turned her photography into an innovative kind of illustration for books for the youngest audiences, died on Jan. 27 at a hospice in suburban Paris. She was 88 and had been living in Paris for the last 23 years.
        Her death was announced by her husband, Robert G. Morris, a photo editor, who said it followed a long illness.
        Beginning in 1970, Ms. Hoban wrote, designed, illustrated and published 110 or more titles, a score of them in print, which won dozens of awards. Most were issued by Greenwillow Books, an imprint of the HarperCollins Children's Book Group.
        They ranged from alphabet books, like ''A, B, See!'' (1982), to primers for life beyond the nursery, like ''26 Letters and 99 Cents'' (1986); from ''Circles, Colors and Squares'' (1974) to ''Is It Larger? Is It Smaller?'' (1985); ''More Than One'' (1981) to ''I Read Symbols'' (1984).
        ''So Many Circles, So Many Squares'' (1998), illustrated with her photographs, educated children to simple geometric shapes. Other recent books, in print, were ''Let's Count'' (1999) and ''Cubes, Cones, Cylinders and Spheres'' (2000).
        She offered young readers photo images of things they would encounter as they ventured forth, as in ''Animal, Vegetable or Mineral?'' (1995), with her text and photos. She did the same in telling about demolition and construction machinery in ''Construction Zone'' (1997).
        Among Ms. Hoban's early works was an illustrated do-it-yourselfer, ''How to Photograph Your Child'' (Crown, 1953). She contributed to the Greystone Encyclopedia of Photography (1963), and her pictures appeared in books by other authors as well.
        Tana Hoban was born in Philadelphia and graduated in 1938 from the School of Design for Women, which is now Moore College of Art and Design. She won a scholarship that took her to England and the Netherlands, and soon turned to magazine illustration and photography.
        Her photographs of children prompted Edward Steichen to display them at the Museum of Modern Art for the first of various exhibitions mounted in Philadelphia, New York, Paris and Berlin. In 1970 she progressed from photographs of children to photographs for children.
        Ms. Hoban's first marriage, to Edward E. Gallob, a photographer, ended in divorce. In addition to Mr. Morris, whom she married 23 years ago, she is survived by a daughter from the earlier marriage, Miela Ford of Rochester; a brother, the writer Russell Hoban, of London; a granddaughter; and one great-granddaughter.
        ''My books are about everyday things that are so ordinary that one tends to overlook them,'' Ms. Hoban once wrote about her work. ''I try to rediscover these things and share them with children. But there is more to each picture than a first look reveals. I always try to include something new, something to reach for.''
        Correction:  February 6, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about Tana Hoban, a photographer and an illustrator of children's books, misstated the given name of her husband. He is John G. Morris, not Robert Morris.
      