
        Jo Foxworth, a doyenne of New York advertising, who wrote the words and commissioned the tune for the siren song intended to lure shoppers to D'Agostino supermarkets, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The death was announced by her executrix, Renee Bennett.
        Most New Yorkers neither met her nor knew of her. But few could have escaped her tuneful plea from shoppers in deprived neighborhoods, ''Please, Mr. D'Agostino, move closer to me.'' In fact, she handled the account and devised the advertisements for the D'Agostino chain for more than 30 years.
        Josephine Foxworth liked to say she learned to read from Campbell Soup ads, growing up in Tylertown in southern Mississippi. She graduated with a degree in advertising from the University of Missouri School of Journalism and worked for a while as an advertising manager for a department store.
        She moved to New York in 1955 and got a job as a copy writer at McCann Erickson when executive ranks on Madison Avenue remained almost exclusively male. She eventually worked for sought-after clients like Buick, Coca-Cola, Liggett & Myers, Nabisco and Westinghouse.
        She rose to vice president at McCann and held senior positions with its parent, the Interpublic Group of Companies. In 1968, she went her own way as the president of Jo Foxworth Inc.
        She set up business in the loft of a D'Agostino market and wrote campaigns like ''If there's no D'Agostino near you -- Move!'' She later moved to loftier quarters, with a clientele that also included divisions of J. C. Penney, Shiseido Cosmetics and Chiquita Banana, but cut back in 1980, retaining only D'Agostino's as an advertising client.
        Her book ''Boss Lady'' (1979) was an introduction to the trials and tribulations women faced in business; it made a hit on college campuses. She followed up with ''Boss Lady's Arrival and Survival Plan'' (1986). She also wrote ''Wising Up: The Mistakes Women Make in Business and How to Avoid Them'' (1980).
        She was elected to the Advertising Hall of Fame in 1997.
        Jo Foxworth leaves no immediate survivors.
      