
        Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland. She was 82.
        She died of heart failure, said James Morgan, a former manager of the Boston company and a close associate.
        Ms. Caldwell, who was also the first woman to conduct at the Metropolitan Opera, lived in Freeport, Me.
        In 1990, 32 years after its founding, facing debt and disarray, the Opera Company of Boston went out of business. But in its glory years, Ms. Caldwell's company was a model of bold, imaginative programming, offering musically insightful productions with distinguished casts.
        ''Some of the most creative work that many of us artists have done has been with Sarah,'' Beverly Sills, the soprano and former chairwoman of the Metropolitan Opera, said yesterday. ''Some of the most aggravating, as well. She had a million different ways to do one thing and was never satisfied until she had tried them all.''
        Ms. Caldwell often took on difficult 20th-century operas that bigger companies shirked. Her productions included the American premieres of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace,'' Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aron,'' Roger Sessions's ''Montezuma,'' Peter Maxwell Davies's ''Taverner'' and Rodion Shchedrin's ''Dead Souls,'' as well as the world premieres of Gunther Schuller's ''Fisherman and His Wife'' and Robert Di Domenica's ''Balcony.''
        Her company seldom presented more than four productions a season. But from the start, Ms. Caldwell attracted world-class artists, notably Ms. Sills and Dame Joan Sutherland. She was both director and conductor for most of her productions -- a double role that often imbued them with a strong vision. But her split duties just as often seemed to divide her attention, resulting in weakened execution onstage and in the orchestra pit.
        Ms. Caldwell's longest period of success came in the 1970's, when the company was thriving and her visibility as a conductor was growing. In 1974, she became only the second woman to conduct the New York Philharmonic. (Nadia Boulanger had been the first in 1939 and again in 1962.) For the program, partly sponsored by Ms. magazine, Ms. Caldwell offered only works by women, among them Ruth Crawford Seeger, Lili Boulanger and Thea Musgrave.
        A Time magazine cover story on Nov. 10, 1975, called her ''Music's Wonder Woman.'' Two months later, on Jan. 13, 1976, she became the first woman to conduct at the Met. The opera was ''La Traviata,'' starring Ms. Sills, who had cajoled the company into engaging Ms. Caldwell. She conducted 11 total performances.
        As a company director, Ms. Caldwell was notoriously disorganized and loath to delegate authority. Only 5 feet 3 inches tall and, for most of her life, overweight, she was an indomitable but chaotic force. Rehearsal periods were typically fraught with crisis. Ms. Caldwell, sleepless and disheveled, would keep stage crews working all night and fight off creditors all day. Stories abounded of staff members' finding their boss napping in a stairwell or atop a pile of costumes backstage.
        Yet, even on a shoestring budget, she managed to present challenging repertory in inventive productions. One, in 1965, was Rossini's ''Semiramide,'' a rarely performed work at the time, with Dame Joan and Marilyn Horne. Ms. Caldwell also staged the United States premiere of ''Boris Godunov'' with Mussorgsky's original orchestration nine years before the Metropolitan Opera did. And hers was the first complete American staging of Berlioz's ''Troyens.''
        Ms. Caldwell faced formidable obstacles in running her company. Financial support from the Boston civic and cultural worlds was inconsistent, and the company lacked an adequate theater. The year her company began, 1958, the long-neglected 50-year-old Boston Opera House was torn down, and the new company was forced into a nomadic existence, performing at the Donnelly Theater (razed in 1968), then the downtown Shubert Theater and then a series of unlikely places, like a university gym and a South End cyclorama.
        The company finally settled at the Orpheum Theater, staying for five years. But the stage was only 26 feet deep, and there was no orchestra pit. Ms. Caldwell's solution was to remove several rows of seats from the orchestra section to make room for her players. She conducted sitting in a director's chair, usually in slippers.
        In 1978, the company bought the B. F. Keith Memorial Theater on Washington Street in downtown Boston, and it finally had a home -- a run-down but potentially excellent 2,500-seat theater with good acoustics and palatial lobbies. But the stage was just 35 feet deep, and the only way to expand would have been to claim a small street that bordered the back of the building, an idea that neighborhood residents and businesses opposed. A complete renovation would have cost only $13 million, Ms. Caldwell estimated. But by 1990, with back taxes looming, she sold the theater to a Texas developer, and her company essentially ceased to exist.
        Sarah Caldwell was born on March 6, 1924, in Maryville, Mo. Her parents divorced when she was an infant. During her childhood, she and her brother frequently lived with relatives while her mother, Margaret, was off pursuing graduate studies in music. Ms. Caldwell began taking violin lessons early, and by 6 was giving concerts out of state. When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
        Discouraged by her stepfather from pursuing a career in music, Ms. Caldwell entered the University of Arkansas as a psychology major. Within a year she was a violin major at Hendrix College in Arkansas. She later earned a scholarship from the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston.
        It was her summers in the Berkshires at the Tanglewood Music Institute that shifted her toward opera. There, in 1947, she staged Vaughan Williams's ''Riders to the Sea.'' Her idol, the conductor Serge Koussevitzky, who directed the institute, was so impressed, he invited her to join the faculty the next year. During this period she became an assistant to the conductor Boris Goldovsky, who ran an opera program at the New England Conservatory. By 1952, Ms. Caldwell was running one herself, at Boston University, which she kept going for eight years.
        She started her own company, initially called the Opera Group, in 1958 with just $5,000 in seed money. By 1965, renamed the Opera Company of Boston, it had won an important place in American opera. She tried to be everything: administrator, fund-raiser, proselytizer. But her assumption of both the director and conductor roles in her productions cost the company time and money. During rehearsals, the orchestra would often sit idly in the pit, collecting union-scale pay, while Ms. Caldwell dealt with a directorial detail onstage.
        When everything came together, however, the productions had the kind of cohesiveness usually achievable only in festival conditions. There was, for example, a critically hailed production of Berlioz's ''Benvenuto Cellini'' in 1975 with Jon Vickers in the title role; another vibrant production was of Verdi's ''Macbeth'' with Shirley Verrett, a frequent Caldwell collaborator who became Boston's favorite diva, as Lady Macbeth.
        Ms. Caldwell was generally thought to be more gifted as a director. Her ideas were usually backed by enormous amounts of historical research. But her conducting, while technically idiosyncratic and often untidy, was musical and sensitive. And she was a pioneer of colorblind casting in opera.
        Ms. Caldwell's constant search for financial support led her into a political quagmire in 1982. She agreed to develop an opera program in the Philippines, signing a contract with Imelda Marcos, the wife of the country's repressive president, Ferdinand E. Marcos. Ms. Caldwell insisted that the contract was with the Cultural Center of the Philippines, not the government. But in reality Mrs. Marcos was financing the center to help build her political power base. A year later, facing protests at home from human-rights groups and outraged company patrons, Ms. Caldwell pulled out of the deal.
        In 1988, she organized an ambitious three-week festival called Making Music Together, which took 250 Soviet dancers, musicians, composers and other artists to Boston for some 80 events. The festival was budgeted at $2.4 million. But when corporate support and ticket sales did not meet expectations, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, with the intervention of Secretary of State George P. Shultz, bailed Ms. Caldwell out with more state support, averting a diplomatic embarrassment.
        For many years Ms. Caldwell lived with her mother in Weston, a Boston suburb. She leaves no immediate survivors.
        In 1999, Ms. Caldwell accepted a post as distinguished professor of music at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, but left within several years because of poor health. Missing New England, she moved to Freeport in 2003.
        Ms. Caldwell never gave up hope that she could raise funds and re-start her company. It was not to be. But for a while, as the British critic Andrew Porter wrote in The New Yorker, she was ''the single best thing about opera in America.''
      