
        Doris Muscatine, a pioneering chronicler of California's wine and food culture, died Saturday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 80.
        Her family said she died as a result of injuries suffered in a fall this month.
        Mrs. Muscatine began writing about food and wine in the 1960's, before anyone knew a pinot noir from a merlot or had ever heard of Alice Waters, Chez Panisse and the new American cooking. Her writing helped introduce California cooking, with its emphasis on fresh, locally grown ingredients, to the rest of the country.
        ''Doris was a good kind of critic, looking for the positive things,'' said Ms. Waters, the executive chef and owner of Chez Panisse, in Berkeley. ''She was able to sort them out. She was never into the kind of superficial things about food and wine. She wanted to know about the person who ran the restaurant, its history, not just recipes. And that connects to her interest in history.''
        As a friend of Ms. Waters, she peeled garlic every year for Chez Panisse's annual garlic festival.
        She was an accomplished cook who thought that good ingredients could speak for themselves.
        ''Food for her was really a form of cultural and aesthetic expression, one that gave comfort and meaning to peoples' daily lives,'' said her daughter, Lissa Muscatine.
        Her food and wine books, which won many awards, include ''A Cook's Tour of Rome,'' ''A Cook's Tour of San Francisco'' and ''The University of California/Sotheby Book of California Wine.''
        Mrs. Muscatine was also co-author, with the East Bay restaurateur Narsai David, of ''Monday Night at Narsai's.'' Narsai's was one of the area's most popular restaurants in the 1970's and early 80's.
        Until a few weeks ago, Mrs. Muscatine was appearing at book signings to promote her new book, ''The Vinegar of Spilamberto and Other Italian Adventures with Food, Places and People,'' which was published last year by Shoemaker & Hoard.
        The book recounts her many visits to Italy, the first in 1958, when her husband, Charles, began studying there on a Fulbright scholarship. With their young children, they explored the country and began a lifelong love of Italian culture, especially its food.
        As a historian, Mrs. Muscatine wrote ''Old San Francisco: the Biography of a City From Early Days to the Earthquake'' and was a consultant for the PBS series ''California Dream,'' a history of the state first broadcast in 1981.
        She recently completed a culinary oral history and film for the Bancroft Library at the University of California.
        Born Doris Corn in New York City, she was reared in Trenton and graduated from Bennington College in Vermont. She studied cooking at the Cordon Bleu in Paris in 1962. She moved to the Bay Area in 1948, when her husband joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley.
        In addition to her husband and daughter, of Bethesda, Md., she is survived by a son, Jeff, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      