
        Dana Reeve, who devoted herself to the care of her paralyzed husband, the actor Christopher Reeve, and became a forceful advocate for research into spinal cord injuries, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 44 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y., in Westchester County.
        The hospital said Ms. Reeve died of lung cancer, which was discovered last year, 10 months after Christopher Reeve's death.
        Ms. Reeve, a singer and an actress, won international admiration for her devotion to Mr. Reeve's care and for her involvement in the Christopher Reeve Foundation, which seeks a cure for spinal cord paralysis. She succeeded her husband as chairman of the foundation and established the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Resource Center, an information clearinghouse.
        Mr. Reeve, whose most celebrated role was as the title hero in the ''Superman'' movie franchise, was paralyzed after a 1995 horseback riding accident in Virginia. He died on Oct. 10, 2004, in New York at age 52.
        Ms. Reeve, who had never smoked, expressed optimism about overcoming her cancer. ''I'm beating the odds and defying every statistic the doctors can throw at me,'' she said four months ago in one of her few public statements about her condition. ''My prognosis looks better all the time.''
        Ms. Reeve was born in 1961 in Teaneck, N.J., one of three daughters of Dr. Charles Morosini and Helen Morosini, who died of ovarian cancer early last year. She grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y., graduated cum laude from Middlebury College in Vermont in 1984 and studied at the California Institute of the Arts.
        The couple met in 1987 in Williamstown, Mass., where Christopher saw Dana performing in a cabaret act at the Williamstown Theater Festival. They were married on April 11, 1992, in an outdoor ceremony at a farm in South Williamstown. They had a son, Will, now 13.
        In addition to her son and her father, Ms. Reeve is survived by her sisters, Deborah Morosini and Adrienne Morosini Heilman, and two stepchildren, Matthew and Alexandra.
        She appeared both on Broadway and Off Broadway at the Public Theater, the Manhattan Theater Club and the Ensemble Studio Theater. She also acted at such regional theaters as the Yale Repertory Theater and the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival. On television she appeared in shows including ''Law and Order,'' ''Oz'' and ''All My Children,'' and was a co-host for ''Lifetime Live,'' a program on the Lifetime network.
        Ms. Reeve essentially suspended her career after her husband's accident, choosing to oversee his care and campaign for spinal cord research, but she did make several appearances after his death. On Jan. 12, wearing what she described as her ''Barbarella wig,'' she sang ''Now and Forever'' to a sold-out crowd at Madison Square Garden on behalf of a friend, the former Rangers hockey captain Mark Messier, who was honored in a retirement ceremony.
        Ms. Reeve will be seen on March 29 in a PBS program, ''The New Medicine,'' which was taped in November. In its introduction, she says, ''It has become clear to me that high-tech medicine, with all its wonders, often leaves out that all-important human touch.''
        Her interest in preserving humane approaches to life in the face of disability was reflected in her work at the Christopher Reeve Foundation.
        ''She navigated the difficulties in their lives, so she decided she wanted to do something to help people living with paralysis and established the Quality of Life grants program,'' said Maggie Goldberg, spokeswoman for the foundation. The program has awarded $8 million to nonprofit organizations that help people with disabilities, Ms. Goldberg said.
        ''Chris was all about research, research, cure and treatment,'' Ms. Goldberg said. ''Dana said, 'We need to worry about the here and now.' ''
      