
        Anna Moffo, an American soprano who was beloved for her rosy voice, dramatic vulnerability and exceptional beauty, died on Thursday night at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of a stroke after grappling with complications of breast cancer for 10 years, said a stepdaughter, Rosita Sarnoff.
        Though Ms. Moffo's career began splendidly, her voice had declined by her late 30's. With her radiant appearance, she was drawn early on into television and film, playing host of her own variety show on Italian television for many years.
        She might not have fulfilled her promise, but for a good dozen years Ms. Moffo enjoyed enormous success and won a devoted following at a time when her competition for roles like Verdi's Violetta, Puccini's Mimi and Donizetti's Lucia included Maria Callas, Renata Tebaldi and Joan Sutherland.
        Though Ms. Moffo's voice was not large, it was warm and rich, with soft pastel colorings and a velvety lower range. Agile coloratura technique allowed her to sing high soprano bel canto repertory impressively, especially ''Lucia di Lammermoor.'' She was a thoroughly trained musician, having studied the piano and viola when she was a voice major on scholarship at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia.
        As Susanna on the classic 1959 EMI recording of Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro,'' Ms. Moffo holds her own and then some in scenes with the intimidating soprano Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, who sings the Countess. Her RCA recording of ''La Traviata,'' with Richard Tucker and Robert Merrill, is still prized for the subtlety and pathos she brings to her portrayal of Violetta. Still, her career could be seen as a cautionary tale about doing too much too soon.
        Anna Moffo was born in Wayne, Pa., to an Italian-American shoemaker and his wife on June 27, 1932. In high school she was popular, proud of her hook shot on the basketball court and captain of the field hockey team. After graduation, Hollywood beckoned, but her parents, as Ms. Moffo told it, wanted her to be a nun. Instead, in 1954 she entered and won the Philadelphia Orchestra Young Artists Auditions. Awarded a Fulbright fellowship, she went to Rome to study voice, master the Italian language and train for opera.
        Ms. Moffo made her stage opera debut in 1955 as Norina in Donizetti's ''Don Pasquale'' in Spoleto. Her big breakthrough came the next year, when she starred in a television production of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' directed by Mario Lanfranchi, a producer for RCA Victor and RAI. She and Mr. Lanfranchi married in 1957. Sensing her star potential, he pushed her too hard. Recalling this period in a 1977 interview, Ms. Moffo lamented that she sang an average of 12 new roles a year for the first four years of her career, all star parts.
        ''I was working too hard and traveling too much,'' she said. ''I got mixed up in TV, films, things like that. Psychologically, I was miserable, always away, always alone.''
        Her Met debut in 1959 was as Violetta in ''La Traviata.'' The reviews, though encouraging, were cautious. The New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote that her singing needed ''a little more personality.''
        ''She has the brains, ability, voice and looks,'' he added, ''and if she develops the musical temperament to go along with it, there will be no stopping her.''
        Ms. Moffo soon became a favorite at the Met, and remained so well into the 1960's. She appeared some 200 times with the company, including her portrayal of Liù in the legendary production of Puccini's ''Turandot'' in 1961 that starred Birgit Nilsson and Franco Corelli, available today on a limited edition live recording produced by the Met.
        By the late 1960's, her voice was often unreliable. In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis writes of a now infamous 1969 Saturday afternoon broadcast performance of ''Lucia'' at the Met. Rudolf Bing, the general manager, was so dismayed by her singing that he considered stopping the performance before Lucia's daunting ''mad scene'' was broadcast to millions.
        That same year, Ms. Moffo caused a scandal in Italy when she appeared to be nude in a scene in the film ''Una Storia d'Amore.'' In later years she insisted that she had not been totally unclothed.
        In 1972 she and Mr. Lanfranchi divorced. Two years later she married Robert W. Sarnoff, the chairman of RCA, who was enthralled with his glamorous wife. Under Mr. Sarnoff, RCA built a promotional campaign around her, including an ill-advised recording of Massenet's ''Thaïs,'' with Ms. Moffo in the title role. The reviews, predictably, were very poor.
        Besides her stepdaughter Rosita, Ms. Moffo is survived by a brother, Nicholas Moffo Jr., of Berwyn, Pa., and two other stepdaughters: Serena Benenson of New Canaan, Conn., and Claudia Sarnoff of Middleburg, Va. She and Mr. Sarnoff, who died in 1997, had no children.
        In the late 1970's, Ms. Moffo went to a respected voice teacher, Beverley Johnson, to get her singing back in shape. The work paid off somewhat: her career continued. But her best years were long behind her.
        For a brief time, though, Ms. Moffo was a lovely singer and appealing artist who broke out of the traditional career mode to reach the larger public. ''You may not like what I do,'' she said in a 1972 interview, ''but you can't say I'm dull.''
      