
        Anna Marly, who wrote the melody to the song that became the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II and whose whistling and singing on the radio were an inspiration to the anti-Nazi underground, died on Feb. 15 in her home in Palmer, Alaska. She was 88.
        Her death was confirmed by Kristin Boyd, an employee of Evergreen Memorial Chapel in Anchorage. Several published reports said the cause was cancer.
        Miss Marly, who in her later years used her married name, Smiernow, wrote the melody to ''Chant des Partisans,'' or ''Song of the Partisans,'' which became an unofficial French anthem in the last years of World War II.
        On the British Broadcasting Corporation's French Service, she sang that song and others, including the ballad ''La Complainte du Partisan,'' known as ''The Partisan'' in its English rendition.
        Gen. Charles de Gaulle called Miss Marly the ''troubadour of the Resistance.''
        In the United States, ''The Partisan'' gained popularity when Leonard Cohen recorded it in 1969, and Joan Baez did in 1972. Many French singers have recorded ''Chant des Partisans,'' including Yves Montand in 1955.
        Miss Marly wrote more than 300 songs, most with lyrics, one of which, ''Une Chanson à Trois Temps,'' was recorded by Édith Piaf.
        On radio, Ms. Marly whistled the first notes of ''Chant des Partisans'' to signal the twice-daily broadcasts of the program ''Honor and Homeland.'' Her crisp, clear whistling pierced the static caused by Nazi jamming.
        Anna Betoulinsky was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, on Oct. 30, 1917, into an aristocratic family. The Russian revolution was raging and her father was shot by a Bolshevik firing squad. She, her mother, sister and a nanny escaped to Finland.
        They eventually found their way to Menton, on the French Riviera, where Russian émigrés established an intellectual and artistic community that Vladimir Nabokov described in early novels.
        There, the teenage Anna took music lessons from Prokofiev, danced in the Ballets Russes and won a Miss Russia contest, after which she went to Algeria to compete for Miss World. At 17, she joined the national society of composers.
        Also at 17, she began her professional singing career at a celebrated Paris night spot called Schéhérazade. She said in an interview with The Anchorage Daily News in 2004 that she wore ''a medieval dress,'' accompanied herself on a guitar and performed only original tunes.
        Around that time, she rejected the name Betoulinsky as too unwieldy for a performer and chose the name Marly at random from a phone book. In 1938, she married a Dutch aristocrat whose name does not seem to be mentioned in articles about her in print and the Internet.
        As the Nazis approached Paris in 1940, she and her husband fled through Spain and Portugal to London. They arrived in the midst of the blitz in February 1941, and she joined a volunteer corps that collected people's scattered remains for identification and burial. She also performed songs in French, English, Russian and Polish for Allied forces, and became a volunteer tea lady for leaders of the French Resistance.
        Miss Marly got the idea for the resistance anthem when she read a newspaper report about Russian partisans fighting the Nazis at Smolensk. The Independent, a London newspaper, reported that the song's structure was inspired by the Russian word for partisan, ''partinski,'' which she used rhythmically to create a somber elegy.
        The Independent said the song, which she first called ''The March of the Partisans,'' had unusual metrical form -- lines of 11 syllables with a three-syllable ''cadence'' at the end of each verse.
        It was translated from Russian to English by Louba Krassine and quickly came to be called the ''Guerrilla Song.'' When it was heard by the French novelists Joseph Kessel and Maurice Druon, they immediately decided to translate it into French for radio broadcasts to the French Resistance.
        Miss Marly later complained that they kept almost none of her original lyrics except for the word ''crows,'' which she used as a haunting metaphor for Nazi planes.
        Emmanuel d'Astair de la Vigerie, a leader of the French Resistance, code-named Bernard, heard the song with the two novelists and urged that a French version be prepared. Bernard later wrote the lyrics for the song that came to be known as ''The Partisan'' in English. The lyrics were loosely translated into English by the American songwriter Hy Zaret.
        Miss Marly's marriage ended in divorce. She met George Smiernow, a metallurgist, while touring in South America. They married in 1946, lived for four years in Paris, then moved to the United States in 1959, where they lived in Pennsylvania, Florida and New York.
        Mr. Smiernow died in 2000, and Mrs. Smiernow moved to Alaska in 2003. She left no immediate survivors.
        For years, she was regaled with stories of how ''Le Chant des Partisans'' had heartened resistance fighters. One former fighter came up after a performance to tell her that he and four others were captured by Germans and told to dig their own graves.
        As they dug, ''to give us spirit, we were whistling your song,'' said the man, the only one of the five to survive.
        Correction:  March 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Anna Marly, who wrote the melody for the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II, misstated the Russian word for partisan, which she used as a rhythmic accent. It is partizan, not partinski. The obituary also misspelled the surname of the Resistance leader who urged the preparation of a French version of the song. He was Emmanuel d'Astier de la Vigerie, not d'Astair.
      