
        Maureen Stapleton, who created a gallery of pugnacious, sometimes profane but always vulnerable heroines on Broadway, in films and on television and who won an Academy Award for her fiery performance as the anarchist Emma Goldman in ''Reds,'' died yesterday at her home in Lenox, Mass. She was 80.
        The cause was chronic pulmonary disease, said her son, Daniel Allentuck.
        Ms. Stapleton had one of the most honored acting careers of her generation. Her Academy Award for ''Reds,'' Warren Beatty's 1981 epic about the Russian Revolution, came on her fourth Oscar nomination. She also won two Tony Awards and an Emmy among many nominations.
        Ms. Stapleton's story embodied the classic theatrical cliché. A small-town girl nurtured on long afternoons at the movies, she came to New York in 1943 with dreams of becoming a star in the theater. She worked at a variety of jobs -- salesgirl, hotel clerk, artists' model -- while attending acting school. Then, not long after her theatrical baptism in summer stock and a few small roles on Broadway, fortune smiled.
        It was 1950. Tennessee Williams had written a play called ''The Rose Tattoo,'' and he wanted the renowned Italian actress Anna Magnani to play the lead role, that of Serafina Delle Rose, an earthy Sicilian-American widow looking for love. But Magnani declined, fearing that her English was inadequate for Broadway. Other actresses were auditioned, without success. Harold Clurman, who had directed Ms. Stapleton earlier that year in Arthur Laurents's ''Bird Cage,'' suggested that the producers audition her. After repeated callbacks, she was told she had the part.
        A friend from acting school, Eli Wallach, was cast opposite her as Alvaro Mangiacavallo, the simple but loving truck driver who revives the widow's spirits in a tumultuous courtship.
        ''The Rose Tattoo'' opened at the Martin Beck Theater in February 1951. Brooks Atkinson, writing in The New York Times, called the performance ''triumphant'' and praised her ability to convey not only the coarseness of the plainspoken Serafina but also her moments of exaltation. The play ran for 300 performances then toured for six months.
        ''The Rose Tattoo'' fulfilled Ms. Stapleton's childhood dream of becoming a star and also earned her a Tony Award. But the stress of her first major role also introduced the demons that would pursue her throughout her career. She began to drink, though she always maintained that she drank only after a performance. (She routinely vomited before curtain time.) She also became convinced that someday, someone in the audience was going to kill her.
        Ms. Stapleton's growing paranoia led her to seek out a psychotherapist after the show ended its tour, but a cure for her ills -- she also had a lifelong fear of elevators and airplanes -- proved elusive. One therapist was to treat her for 14 years.
        Despite her problems with alcohol and bouts of anxiety, her life seemed to be on a positive track. She married Max Allentuck, general manager for the producer Kermit Bloomgarden. They had a son, Daniel, and a daughter, Katherine. When word came that Williams was ready with a new play, ''Orpheus Descending,'' she was told once again that he wanted Magnani to play the heroine, a frustrated Italian-American storekeeper in a small Southern town whose world is torn apart by the arrival of a handsome newcomer. Magnani declined again, and the role went to Ms. Stapleton.
        The play opened on Broadway in March 1957 and drew mixed reviews, but Ms. Stapleton won raves in the lead role of Lady Torrance, Williams's gritty, sex-starved heroine. Cliff Robertson played Val Xavier, the handsome interloper.
        The following year she had audiences laughing in the S. N. Behrman comedy ''The Cold Wind and the Warm,'' in which she played a freewheeling matchmaker. She also received her first Emmy nomination for her work in a television adaptation of ''All the King's Men.'' Then Hollywood beckoned, and in her very first film, an adaptation of Nathaniel West's ''Miss Lonelyhearts'' (1959), she was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actress, playing a deceitful man-eater.
        In 1959 she and Mr. Allentuck were divorced, and she began a relationship with the playwright David Rayfiel, whom she eventually married. But guilt and anxiety over her divorce, she said, drove her further into alcoholism and indulgence. Her weight ballooned. Liquor was a fixture in her dressing room. ''The curtain came down and I went into the vodka,'' she told an interviewer. She later said that in many ways she had been reliving a painful childhood.
        Lois Maureen Stapleton was born on June 21, 1925, in Troy, N.Y. She remembered her father, John, as ''a prodigious drinker'' who had endless battles with her mother, Irene, until they separated when Maureen was a child. She was an unhappy, overweight girl who spent hours at the movies, where, she said, she would ''dream myself right onto the screen.'' She fantasized about someday becoming a Jean Harlow or a Barbara Stanwyck.
        When she was old enough to work, her goal was to save $100 to move to New York City and become an actress; in 1943, she left Troy for Manhattan, where she and a friend shared a $45-a-month apartment.
        ''I was 17 years old, I weighed 180 pounds and I had a hundred bucks in my pocket,'' she recalled. ''I was invincible.''
        She enrolled at the New School, where she studied acting with Herbert Berghof, and in 1947 joined the Actors Studio. But she eventually grew impatient with some of the excesses of Lee Strasberg's Method approach to acting. Even so, she remembered the Studio as ''a special working place.'' Her colleagues included Montgomery Clift, Julie Harris, Marlon Brando, Anne Jackson and Mr. Wallach, and her apartment became an actors' hangout. It was among the happiest times of her life.
        Once established on Broadway and in films and television, she was rarely idle. She appeared on Broadway with Jason Robards in Lillian Hellman's ''Toys in the Attic'' in 1960 and in the film version of ''Orpheus,'' retitled ''The Fugitive Kind.'' Williams got his wish, though, and Anna Magnani played Lady Torrance onscreen while Ms. Stapleton settled for a lesser role. Ms. Stapleton had an earlier disappointment when Magnani won an Academy Award for best actress as Serafina in the 1955 film version of ''The Rose Tattoo.''
        By this time, she was married again, to Mr. Rayfiel, but her drinking was out of control. She was hospitalized for detoxification, after which she voluntarily entered a psychiatric facility. Her second marriage lasted three years. A few months after her divorce, she returned to the role that had made her a star, appearing as Serafina opposite Harry Guardino in a revival of ''The Rose Tattoo'' at the City Center.
        In 1967 she won an Emmy for her television work in ''Among the Paths to Eden,'' an adaptation of a Truman Capote story about a spinster and a widower. (When an interviewer asked her if she minded being regularly cast as an older woman -- something that began early in her career -- she merely shrugged and said, ''I was born old.'')
        A year later she was cast opposite George C. Scott in Neil Simon's comedy ''Plaza Suite,'' staged by Mike Nichols. She and Mr. Scott played three different warring couples to hilarious effect, and her performance won her another Tony nomination.
        The awards and nominations kept coming. She was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for ''Airport'' (1970); she won a best-actress Tony that same year for her portrayal of an alcoholic down-and-out singer in Mr. Simon's laughing-through-tears drama ''The Gingerbread Lady''; she and her co-star, Charles Durning, received Emmy nominations for ''Queen of the Stardust Ballroom'' (1975), playing a couple who warm to romance when they meet at a dance hall.
        Another Oscar nomination, for supporting actress, followed her work in Woody Allen's 1978 drama, ''Interiors.'' In 1981, she was nominated for a Tony for ''The Little Foxes,'' in which she played the battered Aunt Birdie opposite Elizabeth Taylor in the lead role, Regina. In his review in The Times, Frank Rich called her ''a wonder'' and added, ''such is this actress's talent that she can conjure abject terror out of silence and thin air.'' It turned out to be her last appearance on Broadway.
        But her movie career continued, perhaps most memorably as the revolutionary Goldman in ''Reds.'' The performance won her the Oscar for best supporting actress. Her film credits also included ''Cocoon'' (1985) and its sequel, as one of a group of Florida retirees rejuvenated by extraterrestrials, and ''Nuts'' (1987), in which she played the mother of a high-priced call girl (Barbra Streisand).
        When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy. (She was not related to the actress Jean Stapleton, as many people have thought.)
        In Lenox she doted on her grandchildren and continued to accept the occasional role, playing a woman dying of ovarian cancer in the television drama ''Last Wish'' (1992) and appearing opposite Armin Mueller-Stahl in the 1994 film ''The Last Good Time.''
        She also wrote her autobiography, ''A Hell of a Life,'' with Jane Scovell in 1995, in which she looked back on a life in the theater with a few regrets but a lot of satisfaction. When the curtain went up or the camera rolled, she said, ''I did the best I could.''
        But what she loved most, she wrote, was ''the challenge and the opportunity to leave reality behind and become someone else.''
        Correction:  March 20, 2006, Monday  An obituary of the actress Maureen Stapleton on Tuesday misspelled the given name of the author of the novel that inspired her first film, ''Miss Lonelyhearts.'' He was Nathanael West, not Nathaniel.
      