
        Ann Calvello, whose bad-girl attitude, madcap makeup, polka-dot hair and savage style of play made her a legend in the flamboyantly indecorous sport-cum-circus that is roller derby, died on Tuesday at a hospital near her home in San Bruno, Calif. She was 76.
        The cause was liver cancer, her partner, Bill Prieto, told The Associated Press.
        To her fans, she was known as Banana-Nose, and as she outlasted other roller pioneers -- skating in every decade from the 1940's to this one -- Ms. Calvello was unofficially crowned the Roller Derby Queen. Other printable nicknames included Meanest Mama on Skates.
        She embellished her image with a gift for colorful, often off-color, remarks. ''Joe Namath is the Ann Calvello of football,'' she once said.
        Roller derby epitomizes the corner of America's spirit where the flashy intersects with the tawdry. It began as a variation of Depression-era marathon dance contests, with skaters covering the distance between New York and Los Angeles, 57,000 laps on the banked track, in 40 days or more. As it was transformed into a professional sport, more or less, spectators crowded into arenas like Madison Square Garden or Oakland Coliseum to marvel at the spectacle of men and women crashing into one another at high speeds.
        Roller derby, often compared to professional wrestling, became a popular feature on national television. In the 1972 movie ''Kansas City Bomber,'' Raquel Welch seemed the consummate roller queen.
        Ms. Calvello's importance to the sport is suggested by small articles in The New York Times during the 50's, 60's and 70's announcing that a roller-derby exhibition was coming. She was often the only player mentioned. She was honored by a documentary about her life made in 2001, ''Demon of the Derby.''
        Ann Theresa Calvello was born in Newport, R.I., on Aug. 1, 1929. That made her a Leo, something she loved to emphasize with lion rings on every finger, lions on the frame of her glasses and eight tattoos, all lions. Her nickname for herself was the Lioness.
        She developed a reputation for a rough-and-tumble, elbows-flying play, and was usually cast as a villain in the manner of pro wrestling. Often, she played opposite Joanie Weston, the showily goody-goody Blonde Bomber. Ms. Calvello relished the negative role, saying she preferred boos to cheers.
        She got as good as she gave: her injuries included 12 broken noses, four broken elbows, a broken collarbone, a broken tailbone and numerous cracked ribs. When Indianapolis declared April 15, 1972, Ann Calvello Day, injuries kept her from attending.
        In 1951, she met Roy Langley, a handsome referee, and she retired after they married the next year. In 1954, she left him and her baby to go back to the rink. The marriage, her only one, ended in divorce in 1956.
        In addition to her partner, Ms. Calvello is survived by her daughter, Teri Conte, of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Tony and Joey Calvello.
        Ms. Calvello's career took her to teams all over the country, from the San Francisco Bay Bombers to the Jersey Jolters, as well as to Australia. Her habit of wearing different colored skates, her varying hair colors -- purple, green and polka-dot, to name three -- and ultra-white white lipstick against skin tanned to deep chocolate became trademarks. Ms. Calvello skated with the original Roller Derby, which began in 1935, until its demise in 1973. She appeared in successor leagues and exhibitions into the 2000's. She felt unappreciated, to say the least.
        ''I've got too many knives in my back,'' she said in an interview with The Asbury Park Press in 2002. ''Every time I go to the airport, all the knives in my back go off.
        ''You think I'm kiddin' ya?''
      