
        Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville. She was 81.
        No cause of death was announced, but Ms. Braden's biographer, Catherine Fosl, said she died after being admitted to a hospital with pneumonia and dehydration. Ms. Fosl's biography, ''Subversive Southerner: Anne Braden and the Struggle for Racial Justice in the Cold War South,'' was published in 2002 by Palgrave Macmillan.
        An advocate of racial and economic equality for more than half a century, Ms. Braden was one of the white Southerners singled out for praise by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in his celebrated ''Letter From Birmingham Jail'' in 1963. In 1985, she was among the founders of the National Rainbow Coalition, now the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. She also helped start the coalition's Kentucky chapter.
        In May 1954, Ms. Braden and her husband, Carl, both white Kentuckians active in progressive politics, bought a house in a segregated Louisville suburb on behalf of a black associate, Andrew Wade IV, and his family. In June, the house was dynamited. (No one was injured in the explosion, and the bomber was never caught.)
        In October, in a case that attracted nationwide attention, the Bradens and five other whites were indicted on charges of sedition in connection with the blast. The state said the Bradens, who were believed to be associated with the Communist Party, had intended to incite unrest with their purchase of the house.
        Carl Braden was convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison, but he served just over seven months before the verdict was overturned in 1956. Anne Braden's case never went to trial.
        Ms. Braden's account of the case, ''The Wall Between,'' was a finalist for a National Book Award in 1959. In 1999, the University of Tennessee Press published the book in a new edition, with a foreword by Julian Bond.
        Anne Gambrell McCarty was born in Louisville on July 28, 1924. Her father was a feed salesman, and Anne grew up in Anniston, Ala., where his job took the family. The household was traditional, middle-class and thoroughly invested in the status quo.
        ''The parents were so much like your average white Southerner of that generation,'' Ms. Fosl, a historian at the University of Louisville, said last week in a telephone interview. ''They were just very accepting of Southern racial politics.''
        In 1954, Anne earned a bachelor's degree in English from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., and embarked on a career as a journalist. After stints on Alabama papers, she took a job with The Louisville Times. There, she met Carl Braden, a fellow reporter who was active in progressive politics. They were married in 1948.
        Ms. Braden, who had begun to embrace liberal humanist ideas as a teenager, joined her husband in politics. Together, they worked on Henry Wallace's campaign for the presidency on the Progressive Party ticket in 1948. In 1957, the couple joined the staff of the Southern Conference Educational Fund, a civil rights organization. Ms. Braden edited its newspaper, The Southern Patriot, until 1974.
        The Bradens were repeatedly accused of being Communists, and, in 1958, Carl Braden was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee in Atlanta. Refusing to testify, he was sentenced to a year in prison. Dr. King led the drive for clemency, and Mr. Braden was released in 1962, after serving nine months. Throughout her life, Ms. Braden publicly declined to confirm or deny their membership in the Communist Party.
        In 1967, the Bradens were again indicted on charges of sedition, for helping to organize a protest against strip mining in eastern Kentucky. That year, in connection with the case, a federal court in Lexington declared the state's antisedition law unconstitutional.
        Mr. Braden died in 1975.
        Ms. Braden is survived by a son, James, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Elizabeth, of Austin, Tex. Another daughter, Anita, died in childhood.
        In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University. In 1990, she was the first recipient of the Roger Baldwin Medal of Liberty from the American Civil Liberties Union, awarded for her lifetime contribution to civil liberties.
        Correction:  March 20, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Friday about Anne Braden, a civil rights activist of the 1950's, misstated the year of her graduation from Randolph-Macon. It was 1945, not 1954.
      