
        Alice H. Fiske, who contributed to the understanding of slave life in colonial New York by opening her 350-year-old estate on Shelter Island to archaeological study, died at home on April 17. She was 88.
        Her death was announced by Mac Griswold, director of archival research at the estate, Sylvester Manor.
        Mrs. Fiske's interest in the formal study of her 275-acre estate began after the death in 1992 of her husband, Andrew, a 13th-generation descendant of Nathaniel Sylvester, an original settler of Shelter Island.
        Nathaniel Sylvester arrived on the island, between the two forks of eastern Long Island, in 1652 to create a plantation that would supply food, timber and materials for his family's sugar plantations in Barbados. He had slaves imported from the Caribbean and may also have hired Indians to work on the plantation.
        Mrs. Fiske endowed a research center at the University of Massachusetts at Boston to unearth relics of this history. Archaeologists from the center have conducted excavations at Sylvester Manor every summer since 1998. The estate is particularly valuable as an archaeological site because it has not been covered by layers of development over the centuries.
        Digs at Sylvester Manor have allowed researchers to develop a map of the original plantation and better understand patterns of life there. Among the significant finds is a vessel from the 1650's considered the first evidence of American Indians' adopting European or African traditions.
        Mrs. Fiske also had a keen interest in horticulture and restored the gardens of Sylvester Manor, including trees that the family believes were brought to America as cuttings in the 17th century. She also oversaw the family's large collection of papers, dating to the founding of the plantation. The collection will be donated to New York University.
        Alice Hench Fiske was born in Youngstown, Ohio, in 1917, and graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1939. She is survived by her daughters, Susan Woodworth of Summit, N.J., and Elisabeth Williamson of Severna Park, Md., as well as four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      