
        Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Washington. She was 92
        She died of pneumonia at the Washington Hospital Center, said Richard E. Bayne, one of her several nephews and nieces.
        Born in Malden, Mass., Ms. Jones loved to dance from an early age. And though she had never seen a ballet dancer who was black, she was intent on studying to become one. But she had trouble finding a ballet school that would accept her. Studios repeatedly refused her entry, she often recounted.
        But some did allow her to stay and watch classes, and so she learned by observing and listening as well as by reading about ballet. Soon she began to teach students herself, at first in her parents' home. In 1933, she founded her own school in Boston; it was later directed by a student of hers, Elma Lewis, who became another influential teacher of black dancers.
        In 1940, another former student, Claire Haywood, persuaded Ms. Jones to move to Washington. There, the two of them founded the Jones-Haywood School of Ballet, with the mission of enabling black students to train in classical dance. The women were cited as important influences in a national ballet teaching project created by the Ford Foundation in the 1960's. Their guest teachers included Arthur Mitchell, a founder of the Dance Theater of Harlem, and George Balanchine. (Ms. Haywood died in 1978.)
        The racially integrated Capitol Ballet Company, which she and Ms. Haywood founded in 1961 and which Ms. Jones directed until 1982, grew out of the Jones-Haywood school and provided graduates with the chance for professional careers in ballet. Ms. Jones also created the Jones-Haywood Youth Dancers to give younger students opportunities to perform.
        The roster of their students reads like a who's who of 20th-century dancers: the Broadway dancers Chita Rivera and Hinton Battle; the ballet choreographer Louis Johnson; the ballet dancers Sylvester Campbell and Sandra Fortune, and the modern dancers Elizabeth Walton (who performed with Paul Taylor), Hope Clark (with Donald McKayle) and Renee Robinson (with Alvin Ailey). Ms. Fortune, who became the lead dancer with the Capitol Ballet, is believed to have been the first black ballerina to compete in an international ballet competition, in Varna, Bulgaria.
        Ms. Jones also directed the D.C. Public Schools Dance Program and choreographed for the Washington Opera Society and the Washington Civic Opera.
      