
        Elizabeth Maguire, a prominent New York editor who was most recently vice president and publisher of Basic Books, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 47 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, her companion, Karen Wolny, said.
        Ms. Maguire specialized in nonfiction, with particular attention to the work of leading black intellectuals, including Henry Louis Gates Jr., Cornel West, John McWhorter and Kwame Anthony Appiah. She also published the work of well-known Roman Catholic conservatives, among them George Weigel, Michael Novak and the Rev. Richard John Neuhaus.
        A division of the Perseus Books Group, Basic Books includes the Basic Civitas, Counterpoint and Westview Press imprints.
        Among the titles published during Ms. Maguire's tenure are ''Sontag & Kael,'' by Craig Seligman (Counterpoint, 2004); ''The Autobiography of Medgar Evers,'' by Myrlie Evers Williams and Manning Marable (Basic Civitas, 2005); and ''When Smoke Ran Like Water: Tales of Environmental Deception and the Battle Against Pollution,'' by Devra Davis (Basic Books, 2002), a National Book Award finalist.
        Elizabeth Ann Maguire was born in the Bronx on Dec. 12, 1958, and grew up in Harrison, N.Y. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Harvard in 1980 and began her career with Cambridge University Press before moving to Oxford University Press.
        As executive editor at Oxford, Ms. Maguire published ''Harriet Beecher Stowe: A Life,'' by Joan D. Hedrick, which received a Pulitzer Prize in 1995.
        Ms. Maguire was later executive editor of Addison-Wesley Longman's trade group before becoming editorial director of the Free Press, an imprint of Simon & Schuster. She joined Basic Books in 2000, becoming vice president and publisher two years later.
        In addition to Ms. Wolny, Ms. Maguire is survived by her parents, Nina and Arthur, of Harrison; a sister, Regina Moynihan, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; and two brothers, Arthur, of New Canaan, Conn., and James, of Yonkers.
        Ms. Maguire also wrote a novel, ''Thinner, Blonder, Whiter,'' published by Carroll & Graf in 2002.
      