
        Elizabeth A. Connelly, a New York State assemblywoman from Staten Island for 27 years who was a leader in the fight against drunken driving, died yesterday at her home in the Westerleigh section of the borough. She was 77.
        The cause was cancer, her husband, Robert, said.
        Mrs. Connelly, who retired in 2000, was the Assembly's chief sponsor of the 1982 law that raised the state's legal drinking age from 18 to 19; it has since been raised to 21. She was also a co-author of the law requiring judges to suspend the driver's license of anyone convicted of drunken driving.
        When she retired, she was the speaker pro tempore of the Assembly, the highest rank a woman had ever reached there, and regularly presided over contentious debates.
        Sometimes describing herself as a conservative Democrat, Mrs. Connelly sponsored legislation in the 1980's that would have ended state Medicaid financing for abortions. The measure failed.
        Born Elizabeth Ann Keresey on June 19, 1928, Mrs. Connelly was a Brooklyn native whose family moved to the Bronx when she was 2. She did not attend college. In the mid-1940's, she worked as a secretary at the New York Life Insurance Company. Then, from 1946 to 1954, she worked in telephone sales for cargo at Pan American World Airways, with her future husband as her boss.
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Connelly is survived by a son, Robert Jr. of Las Vegas; three daughters, Alice Lanzi of Staten Island, Margaret Nicholson of Katonah, N.Y., and Therese Shannon of Goshen, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
        The Connellys moved to Staten Island in 1954, and Mrs. Connelly became active in local politics, joining the North Shore Democratic Club of Richmond County. She was first elected to the Assembly in 1973 and was re-elected 13 times.
        In 1977, Mrs. Connelly was appointed chairwoman of the Assembly Committee on Mental Health, Mental Retardation, Developmental Disabilities, Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.
        ''A family member suffered from mental illness,'' her husband said yesterday, ''and that's why she dedicated herself to that cause.''
        Mrs. Connelly was also a co-sponsor of a 1994 bill calling for the secession of Staten Island from New York City. The effort stalled after the Assembly's Democratic leadership said they believed the State Constitution required that such a measure be requested by the city, not one of its boroughs.
      