
        Carolyn Shaw Bell, an economist at Wellesley College who took her fight for equal opportunities for women in economics from the college into the national arena, died May 13 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 85.
        Mary Ann Hill, a college spokeswoman, announced Dr. Bell's death.
        Dr. Bell started her work at Wellesley in 1950. By 1995, an article in The New York Times pointed to the ''Wellesley effect,'' a disproportionately large number of graduates of Wellesley, a women's college, in executive suites and corporate boardrooms. It said the college's alumnae had long been overrepresented at Harvard Business School and said part of the reason was the dynamic teaching of Dr. Bell.
        Dr. Bell carried her equality campaign to the American Economic Association, where she was a founder of the group's Committee on the Status of Women in the Economics Profession. In 1998, the committee established the Carolyn Shaw Bell Award for the person who has most advanced women in the profession.
        Her own scholarship focused on human capital, income distribution and the quality of economic data. She wrote two books, ''Consumer Choice in the American Economy'' (1967) and ''The Economics of the Ghetto'' (1970).
        In 1973, she was appointed an overseer of the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth College, the first woman appointed to any governing board there.
        She advised the presidential campaign of Jimmy Carter and was rumored to be in consideration for a high economic post in his administration that never materialized.
        She deeply influenced distinguished students like Alicia Munnell, an assistant secretary of the treasury and member of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration and now a professor at the Carroll School of Management at Boston College. Professor Munnell recounted last week how Dr. Bell's help continued through correspondence and networking for many years after graduation.
        ''It was just to make sure that the students she came into contact with knew they could do anything they wanted to, and that she was behind them pushing and applauding all the way,'' Professor Munnell said.
        Dr. Bell coined the term ''FEMS,'' for female economics majors, to describe her students and former students. Carolyn Shaw was born on June 21, 1920, in Framingham, Mass. She majored in economics at Mount Holyoke College, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa as a junior and graduated magna cum laude.
        She then worked at the Office of Price Administration, which was established during World War II to prevent inflation and was led by John Kenneth Galbraith, who later helped Dr. Bell create the committee of female economists. In 1949, she earned a doctorate at the London School of Economics.
        At her retirement in 1989, she held the Katharine Coman chair in economics at Wellesley and had been departmental chairwoman twice.
        Dr. Bell had moved to Arlington after living for many years in Lexington, Mass., and, previously, in Dover, Mass.
        Her husband, Nelson Sibly Bell, died in 1991. She is survived by her daughter, Tova Maria Solo of Arlington, and one grandson.
      