
        Ruth Gay, a writer known for her nonfiction books documenting Jewish life in the Old World and the New, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        She had been suffering from leukemia, and died at Calvary Hospital, her family said.
        Ms. Gay's books include ''Safe Among the Germans: Liberated Jews After World War II'' (Yale University, 2002), which dealt with a little-studied subject: the more than 250,000 Jews who returned to Allied-occupied Germany in the immediate aftermath of World War II.
        She also wrote ''The Jews of Germany: A Historical Portrait'' (Yale University, 1992), which chronicled Jewish life in Germany from the fall of Jerusalem in A.D. 70 to the rise of Hitler in 1933.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Peter Filkins called it ''moving and lively.''
        ''What emerges is the portrait of a culture very much alive and aware of its own rich heritage,'' he wrote.
        In 1997, Ms. Gay received the National Jewish Book Award for nonfiction for ''Unfinished People: Eastern European Jews Encounter America'' (W. W. Norton, 1996). In that book, she examined the immigrant experience through the lens of her own girlhood in the Bronx.
        Ruth Slotkin was born in the Bronx on Oct. 19, 1922; her father was a milkman who later opened a delicatessen. She earned a bachelor's degree from Queens College in 1943 and a master's in library science from Columbia in 1969.
        Her first marriage, to the sociologist Nathan Glazer, ended in divorce. She is survived by her second husband, the historian Peter Gay; three daughters, Sarah Glazer Khedouri of Larchmont, N.Y.; Sophie Glazer of Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Elizabeth Glazer of Manhattan; two sisters, Shirley Gorenstein of Manhattan and Caroll Boltin of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; and seven grandchildren.
        Ms. Gay's book ''The Jewish King Lear Comes to America,'' written with her daughter Sophie, is to be published next year by Yale.
      