
        Joyce Ballantyne Brand, a commercial and pinup artist who created the famed Coppertone Girl advertisement, died on Monday at her home in Ocala, Fla. She was 88.
        She suffered a heart attack late last week and had been released from the hospital under hospice care, her daughter Cheri Brand Irwin said.
        Mrs. Brand was working for a New York firm, Grant Advertising, in 1959 when she was handed a rough drawing of stick figures and from that created the famous image for the Coppertone suntan lotion. It showed a dog tugging at the bathing suit of a little girl, exposing her bottom and tan line.
        In a 1991 article in The Ocala Star-Banner, Mrs. Brand recalled earning $2,500 for the image, adding that Coppertone executives lost the drawings in a fire and she earned $2,000 more for recreating them.
        The model in that piece of advertising history was none other than her daughter, Ms. Irwin, then 3. In the 1991 interview, Mrs. Brand said she used her daughter because she ''worked cheap and was convenient.''
        The initial billboard campaign carried the slogan ''Don't Be a Paleface.'' The Schering-Plough Corporation, now the maker of Coppertone, has used other slogans, like ''Tan, Don't Burn,'' and over the years the little girl has become somewhat less exposed in the ads.
        Ms. Irwin and her sister were often models for Mrs. Brand.
        ''Personally I think her oil paintings were her best work but her commercial art is what made her famous,'' Ms. Irwin said.
        Jocelyn Ballantyne Brand was born in Norfolk, Neb., and attended the University of Nebraska before finishing her art education at the American Academy of Art in Chicago and the Art Student League in New York City.
        She was an illustrator for Sports Afield magazine for 20 years. In addition to creating the Coppertone Girl, she worked on campaigns for Pampers diapers, Ovaltine, Coca-Cola, Pepsi and General Motors.
        She had lived in Ocala since the 1970's.
        In addition to Ms. Irwin, Mrs. Brand's survivors include another daughter, Coby Reichstadt of Omaha; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. Jack Brand, her husband, died before her.
        Ed Franklin, a longtime friend, said that Mrs. Brand did not particularly like being known for the Coppertone Girl ad, preferring to concentrate on fine art, mostly oil paintings. She also painted pinup girls.
        ''She was an icon for women in a man's world especially when it came to her pinups,'' Mr. Franklin said. ''She was beautiful and used herself as a model for many of the pinups.''
      