
        Anita B. Roberts, a molecular biologist who made pioneering observations of a protein that is critical in healing wounds and bone fractures and that has a dual role in blocking or stimulating cancers, died on Friday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 64.
        The cause was gastric cancer, her family said.
        In the early 1980's, Dr. Roberts and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, began to experiment with the protein, called T.G.F.-beta, short for transforming growth factor beta.
        Dr. Roberts isolated the protein from bovine kidney tissue and compared her results with T.G.F.-beta taken from human blood platelets and placental tissue. Institute researchers then began a series of experiments to determine the protein's characteristics. They discovered that it helps play a central role in signaling other growth factors in the body to heal wounds and fractures speedily.
        A collaborator, Michael B. Sporn, a professor of pharmacology and medicine at Dartmouth, said T.G.F.-beta was later shown to have an effect on regulation of the heartbeat, the response of the eye to aging and also serves as ''a switching point, a node through which all kinds of information flows.''
        Dr. Sporn, a former researcher at the National Cancer Institute, added, ''Anita Roberts delivered some of the first studies showing the protein is a key component in healing all types of injuries and was exceptional in collaborating with other scientists.''
        In later research, Dr. Roberts and others found that T.G.F.-beta inhibits the growth of some cancers while stimulating growth in advanced cancers, including cancers of the breast and lung.
        Anita Bauer Roberts was born in Pittsburgh. She attended Oberlin College and earned her doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin in 1968.
        After postdoctoral work at Harvard, Dr. Roberts joined the National Cancer Institute in 1976. From 1995 to 2004, she headed the institute's Laboratory of Cell Regulation and Carcinogenesis, and continued her research until this year.
        Dr. Roberts was a former president of the Wound Healing Society. In 2005, she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Dr. Robert E. Roberts, a chemist and director of the Science and Technology Policy Institute in Washington; two sons, Dr. Karl Roberts, an orthopedic surgeon in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Greg Roberts, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a sister, Dorrie Derge, of Frederick, Md.; and five grandchildren.
      