
        Sophie Maslow, a choreographer who drew on the populist sympathies of Woody Guthrie, Carl Sandburg, Duke Ellington and others to create dances about various sides of American life, from jazz to the Dust Bowl, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 95.
        Her death was confirmed by her daughter, Abigail Blatt of Manhattan, who is her only immediate family member.
        Since the 1940's, Ms. Maslow created dances for a number of troupes, including her own, the Sophie Maslow Dance Company, and the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, an ensemble she directed in association with Jane Dudley and William Bales. She also danced in Martha Graham's company from 1931 to 1943 and was a teacher of modern-dance technique.
        Ms. Maslow's dances set to folk music were especially popular. ''Dust Bowl Ballads'' (1941), to songs by Woody Guthrie, depicted the endurance of people in the rural Southwest during the droughts and the Depression of the 1930's. Ms. Maslow returned to Guthrie's music and Dust-Bowl themes in 1980 when she created ''Woody Sez,'' a suite of comic and serious episodes, each with some reference to dust.
        The cheerful ''Folksay'' (1942), based on Carl Sandburg's poem ''The People, Yes,'' blended dancing with songs and dialogue. Guthrie occasionally sang in the early performances.
        Jazz and pop music also attracted Ms. Maslow. ''Manhattan Transfer'' (1953) was a boogie-woogie suite; ''Poem,'' set in a San Francisco beatnik hangout, featured music by Duke Ellington and the recitation of a poem by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. At its premiere in 1963, Allen Hughes, writing in The New York Times, called it ''an instant hit.''
        Not all Ms. Maslow's American commentaries were genial, and not all received rave reviews. ''Champion'' (1948) depicted the career of a champion boxer who, in his personal life, was a champion heel. The critic John Martin of The Times found it ''imaginative and formally interesting chiefly in the two boxing sequences, but in its more dramatic scenes it relies on fairly obvious dumb-show.''
        Ms. Maslow's versatility was evident in such disparate creations as ''The Snow Queen'' (1953), a retelling of Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale; ''Decathlon Études'' (1976), which turned sports movements into dance; and ''Voices'' (1980), a lyrical piece set to lush Romantic music by Schumann.
        Ms. Maslow also created several works on Jewish themes, most notably ''The Village I Knew'' (1950), a set of character sketches based on the stories of Sholem Aleichem. During the 1950's and 60's she choreographed many of the annual Hannukkah festivals at Madison Square Garden, and in 1954 she staged ''Israel Through the Ages,'' an elaborate music and dance spectacle at the ANTA Playhouse.
        Born in New York on March 22, 1911, Ms. Maslow was a first cousin of the artist Leonard Baskin. She received her dance training at the Neighborhood Playhouse on the Lower East Side, where Blanche Talmud and Martha Graham were among her teachers. She joined the Graham company in 1931 and remained with it for 12 years.
        While dancing, she also began choreographing works of her own, many for the New Dance League, a forerunner of the New Dance Group. In the 30's, both organizations favored dances on social-protest themes. The New Dance Group also offered low-cost classes in various techniques and sponsored a dance company. Ms. Maslow participated as a teacher and choreographer.
        She was associated with the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio from its founding in 1942 to its dissolution in 1954. After that, she continued to work with the New Dance Group.
        Although primarily known as a modern-dance choreographer, Ms. Maslow also choreographed theatrical productions. One was the Off Broadway musical ''Sandhog'' in 1954; another, in 1974, was ''The Big Winner,'' based on a Sholem Aleichem story about a poor tailor who gains a fortune through a winning lottery ticket.
        Ms. Maslow spoke of her populist leanings in an interview in Dance Magazine in 1946. Referring to herself and her colleagues in the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, she said: ''We're popular, if by 'popular' you mean 'of the people.' But this is the Age of the Common Man, and it is the common people who are the backbone and the strength and hope of our civilization and our culture. We as artists, and above all as thinking people, are touched by problems of our fellow men because they are our problems.''
      