
        Anna Castelli Ferrieri, a pioneering architect associated with the postwar period of Italian modern design, known for its embrace of technological innovation and audacious style, died on Thursday at her home in Milan. She was 87.
        The cause was complications from lung disease, said a grand-nephew, Michele Caniato of New York.
        Ms. Castelli Ferrieri was an emblematic member of a generation of Italian designers that included Pier and Achille Castiglioni, Gae Aulenti, Ettore Sottsass and Joe Colombo. They energetically transformed the world of design with their interest in using new technologies and materials, like plastic, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri's frequent medium. Their iconoclastic brio and intuitive elegance became the signature of the Italian modern style.
        She was one of the first women to graduate from the prestigious Milan Polytechnic Institute, in 1943, with an architecture degree. In 1949, she and her husband, Giulio Castelli, founded Kartell, which became a leading furniture company known for high-quality plastic designs.
        ''She was not only influential as a professional designer, she educated her husband, an industrialist and engineer, in the importance of quality in design,'' said the architect Emilio Ambasz, who was the curator of the seminal 1972 exhibition ''Italy: The New Domestic Landscape'' at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. ''Together they took great risks.''
        The show included several pieces by Ms. Castelli Ferrieri, most notably her 1969 ''Componobili,'' stackable round plastic containers; at the time of the Modern show, Bloomingdale's created an entire New York skyline out of them in its home furnishings department.
        Anna Castelli Ferrieri was born in Milan on Aug. 6, 1918. Her father was a noted journalist and founder of Il Convegno, a magazine, bookstore, theater and intellectual salon of the 1920's, which attracted international intellectuals and theater personalities, including James Joyce, Thomas Mann and Luigi Pirandello.
        As a young woman with design aspirations, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri visited Le Corbusier in Paris, but felt more in tune with the Italian Rationalist architect Franco Albini, her maestro, as she used to call him, whose theory of reduction, function and rigorous beauty remained for her a lifetime philosophy. Her work as an architect is best represented by the Kartell headquarters, with its brilliant red blocks visible from the highway just outside Milan, which she designed in collaboration with Ignazio Gardella. Her other collaborations with Mr. Gardella include a residential building on Via Marchiondi in Milan as well as offices and a factory for Alfa Romeo.
        With the success of Kartell, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri and her husband helped fuel the explosion of Italian modern design in the 60's, 70's and 80's, much as her father had galvanized the cultural scene in his day. In 1976, she became the art director of Kartell and continued to experiment.
        Her survivors include her husband; a daughter, Marial; and a son, Valerio, all of Milan.
        For a retrospective at the Museum of Architecture and Design at the Chicago Atheneum in 1997, she wrote, ''I continue on my own way, conscious of the responsibility I take upon myself whenever I add a new presence to an already overcrowded physical world.''
        Correction:  June 29, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the Italian designer and architect Anna Castelli Ferrieri misspelled the given name of her surviving daughter. She is Maria, not Marial.
      