
        Gloria Jones, whose marriage to the author James Jones placed her at the center of a postwar literary and social world in Paris and the Hamptons and whose own life became the basis of a novel and a movie, died on Friday at her home in Sagaponack, N.Y. She was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Kaylie Jones of Manhattan.
        In 1998 a character drawn from Mrs. Jones was central in the film ''A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries,'' based on an autobiographical novel by her daughter. The movie, in which Barbara Hershey plays the mother, is about an expatriate family in Paris and its difficulties after the adoption of a French boy.
        From 1959 to 1974, Mr. and Mrs. Jones lived in Paris, where they adopted their son, Jamie, who now lives in Washington.
        Mr. Jones was already famous for his 1951 novel, ''From Here to Eternity,'' and the 1953 blockbuster movie based on it, portraying American soldiers and their lovers in Hawaii before the attack on Pearl Harbor.
        In Paris the couple were celebrities and celebrated hosts. Their guests, her daughter recalled, included the authors Mary McCarthy, James Baldwin, Romain Gary and William Styron and the actors Peter Lawford and Jean Seberg.
        After their return, the couple bought a farmhouse in Sagaponack, in the Hamptons on the South Fork of Long Island. It became a gathering spot for friends like Arthur Miller, Norman Mailer, Peter Matthiessen and Kurt Vonnegut. Mr. Jones died in 1977.
        In 1985 a biography of Mr. Jones by Frank MacShane, ''Into Eternity: The Life of James Jones, American Writer'' (Houghton Mifflin), quoted the author Irwin Shaw describing Mrs. Jones as ''the candle that kept the house alight,'' as hostess and as guardian of her husband's literary reputation after his death.
        Before marrying in 1957, Mrs. Jones was a movie stand-in for Marilyn Monroe in ''The Seven Year Itch'' and for Eva Marie Saint in ''On the Waterfront,'' and a dance partner of Arthur Murray on his television show in the 1950's.
        Gloria Mosolino Jones was born in Pottsville, Pa., on June 6, 1928. She graduated from Syracuse University in 1949. Besides her daughter and son, she is survived by a brother, Mark Mosolino of Bethel Hill, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      