
        Evelyn Dubrow, organized labor's most prominent lobbyist at the time of its greatest power in her four decades with the nation's largest apparel union, died on Tuesday in Washington. Family members said she was 95.
        She died at George Washington Hospital after several days in a coma, said Jay Mazur, former president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union, now part of Unite Here.
        Just 4 feet 11 inches tall and famed for working 15-hour days, Ms. Dubrow was one of the most colorful and respected lobbyists in Washington, and one of the first powerful women among them. One fellow lobbyist called her ''the little engine that could.''
        Sometimes she visited 30 senators in a day. She said she trudged so many miles around Capitol Hill that she wore out 24 pairs of her Size 4 shoes each year.
        David Dubinsky, the legendary president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union, named Ms. Dubrow the union's chief Washington lobbyist in 1956, once saying that she was the girl who should represent all the girls in the union.
        Tireless and an eloquent speaker, she was a powerful voice for labor and for social legislation, including Medicare, school spending and civil rights.
        At a signing ceremony in 1965 for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, President Lyndon B. Johnson singled out Ms. Dubrow, saying she deserved credit for pushing through the legislation.
        Although he was just as conservative as Ms. Dubrow was liberal, Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential candidate in 1964, was friendly with Ms. Dubrow, once telling Mr. Dubinsky, ''That's a smart little girl lawyer you've got down here.'' She was not a lawyer, however.
        She was so well liked and such a fixture on Capitol Hill that House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. assigned her a chair among the Congressional doorkeepers' chairs outside the House of Representatives so she would not have to stand all day while waiting to buttonhole arriving or departing House members. She was the only lobbyist to have such a seat.
        ''Lobbyists tend to work for, or even become, fat cats,'' Ms. Dubrow said in a 1997 interview with Washingtonian Magazine. ''Well, I'm not. And I don't. I work for more than 350,000 union members and 250,000 retirees. They're far from fat cats. They're hard-working citizens who can't trot up to Capitol Hill and meet their representatives directly.''
        She worked in Washington under presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower through Bill Clinton. She won many battles, like raising the federal minimum wage to $1.15 an hour in 1961. But she often lost, failing, for example, to defeat the North American Free Trade Agreement under Mr. Clinton.
        When Mr. Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999 -- he towered over her as they hugged -- he said, ''A tenacious and effective union activist, she has been a force for social justice and improved labor conditions by working for increases in the minimum wage, health care reform, family and medical leave, and pay equity for women.''
        In Ms. Dubrow's early years as a lobbyist, some senators asked her to baby-sit, among them the fathers of Al Gore, the former vice president, and Christopher J. Dodd, a Democratic senator from Connecticut.
        She did not hide her disappointment that Republicans took control of Congress in the 1990's.
        ''What most bothers me in this Republican Congress is how they make it seem a crime for anyone to be poor -- like the poor want to be poor,'' she said in a Washingtonian interview. ''Some of those folks on the Hill can't get it through their thick heads that as representatives in a democracy, they should care about the people who most need their help.''
        Evelyn Dubrow -- known universally as Evy -- was born in Passaic, N.J., on March 6, 1911, relatives said; she left no immediate survivors. She graduated from New York University in the 1930's, having studied journalism there; she sometimes fudged dates to hide her age. She worked as a reporter for The Morning Call of Paterson, N.J.
        Ms. Dubrow became secretary for the Textile Workers Union in New Jersey in the late 1930's and then assistant to the president of the state's C.I.O. council.
        She said it was no surprise that she became active in labor and politics because her father, a carpenter, was a union man and Socialist émigré from Belarus while an older sister was once arrested in a suffragists' protest in front of the White House.
        In 1948, she became New York State director for Americans for Democratic Action. She twice campaigned for Adlai E. Stevenson, who lost twice to Eisenhower, and afterward she became the garment workers' Washington lobbyist.
        She attributed her lobbying success to what she called her BAT theory: ''I don't beg,'' she said. ''I don't assume I know all the answers, and I don't threaten.'' She explained that if lawmakers voted against labor's position, it was unwise to grow angry or threaten to defeat them because then they might never support labor again on any issue.
        ''I've always told people, you need better feet than brains to lobby,'' she told Women's Wear Daily in 1988, adding that a sense of humor, a smile and a nonthreatening manner helped, too.
        ''I have a theory,'' she added. ''I don't wear pants. Some men don't like women in pants.''
      