
        Anne Meacham, an actress whose notable stage appearances included roles in the original production of Tennessee Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer'' and Eva Le Gallienne's 1964 Broadway staging of ''The Seagull,'' died on Thursday at her home in Canaan, N.Y. She was 80.
        Her death was announced by her friend Marian Seldes.
        Although her career spanned several decades and included a stint on the soap opera ''Another World,'' Ms. Meacham is probably best known for her work in the plays of Tennessee Williams, who once praised her in an article for The New York Times, saying, ''There's nothing she won't say or do onstage without any sign of embarrassment.''
        Ms. Meacham won an Obie Award for her performance as the fragile, emotionally distraught Catharine Holly in ''Suddenly, Last Summer,'' the more successful and more often revived half of the 1958 Off Broadway double bill ''Garden District.'' (Elizabeth Taylor took the role in the movie version.)
        Ms. Meacham appeared in Williams's ''In the Bar of a Tokyo Hotel,'' from 1969, and in a production of his 1966 play ''The Gnadiges Fraulein.'' She also had a long friendship with the playwright.
        Born July 21, 1925, in Chicago, Ms. Meacham studied at the Yale School of Drama and at the Neighborhood Playhouse in the 1940's. Her New York stage debut came in the short-lived 1952 World War II comedy ''The Long Watch,'' for which she won a Clarence Derwent Award, a prize for newcomers to New York.
        Other Broadway appearances included Jean Giraudoux's ''Ondine,'' which starred Mel Ferrer and Audrey Hepburn and was directed by Alfred Lunt; an adaptation of Henry James's ''The Europeans,'' titled ''Eugenia,'' starring Tallulah Bankhead; and repertory appearances in the New York stands of ''The Crucible'' (as Elizabeth Proctor) and ''The Seagull'' (as Nina) in 1964.
        Ms. Meacham's last Broadway appearance was as Gertrude in Tom Stoppard's ''Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead'' in 1968. She won a second Obie award for a revival of ''Hedda Gabler'' in 1961.
        Ms. Meacham made her film debut in ''Lilith'' in 1964 and made many television appearances in the 50's and 60's before joining the cast of ''Another World'' in 1972 as Louise Goddard, an oddball maid.
        She is survived by a sister, Jane Brower, of Winnetka, Ill.
      