
        Dorothea Towles Church, the first successful black model in Paris, who discovered personal liberation on the runways of Christian Dior and Elsa Schiaparelli in the 1950's, died on July 7 in Manhattan. She was 83.
        Her death was confirmed by Michael Henry Adams, a curator at the Museum of the City of New York, where she is among those to be featured in an exhibition called ''Black Style Now,'' opening on Sept. 7.
        Ms. Church's success was a historic achievement in an industry that had been especially resistant to using any but white models to represent beauty on magazine covers, advertisements and runways. Ms. Church was responsible for breaking down some of those barriers and was revered in France during the five years she modeled there.
        ''If you're beautiful, they don't care what color you are,'' she said of the French, describing her days in the couture salons and nights in postwar Paris.
        ''I got invited out all the time,'' she said in Barbara Summers's 1998 book ''Black and Beautiful.'' ''I was the only black model in Europe and I just thought I was an international person.''
        Her easy acceptance in Paris was reported back home in black publications, in articles about the designers she knew and how she once dyed her hair platinum at Dior's request.
        But her growing fame did not eliminate prejudice on the part of some designers. At Schiaparelli, she once overheard someone describe her as Tahitian. While working for Pierre Balmain, she recalled, he would not allow her to borrow dresses for a photograph for Ebony magazine, fearing that would offend his white clientele. She took the clothes later on the pretext that she would wear them to a party, and the magazine then photographed them. This particular ruse endeared her to young black women with dreams of careers in fashion.
        Norma Jean Darden, a former model and an owner of Spoonbread Catering in Manhattan, said: ''When I was 13 years old, I remember reading in Ebony magazine that there was this marvelous woman who had gone to Paris and broken through the color barriers. She was a true inspiration for those who followed fashion.''
        Dorothea Towles was born on July 26, 1922, in Texarkana, Tex., the seventh of eight children in a farming family. She studied biology at Wiley College in Marshall, Tex., and planned to go into medicine, but when her mother died, she accepted the invitation of a wealthy uncle to live with him in Los Angeles. She completed a master's degree in education there at the University of Southern California.
        In search of a profession, Ms. Church was attracted by the glamour of Los Angeles, so her friends suggested the movies. But there were few roles for black actors, and Ms. Church described herself as more commercially minded. She thought she could succeed in modeling, and enrolled in the Dorothy Farrier Charm and Modeling School as its first black student.
        She then found jobs on the West Coast in fashion shows and magazines that catered to black audiences, and a husband, a much older dentist who spoiled her. In 1949, while on a two-month vacation in Paris, where her sister Lois Towles was touring with the concert choir of Fisk University, Ms. Church decided to try modeling there. Dior hired her on the spot to replace one of his regulars, who was on vacation. Ms. Church found that she liked Paris so much that she informed her husband she was staying.
        ''He wrote me and even called me, but I told him I wasn't coming back,'' she said. ''He finally got tired, and then he got a lawyer and sued for divorce.''
        After a few months, Ms. Church began using her model's discount to buy samples from the designers, piece by piece, until she had assembled several wardrobes' worth of couture gowns that had rarely been seen by American audiences. In 1954, she returned to America by ship, because she had so much luggage, and began a tour of black colleges with her collection. She staged fashion shows and fund-raisers for more than 200 branches of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a college sorority established by black women. Ms. Darden, who was 18 when she met Ms. Church at a benefit show organized by her father for the N.A.A.C.P. in Montclair, N.J., became one of the models in her troupe.
        Ms. Church later signed with the Grace del Marco modeling agency in New York, and worked there for several years. She met Thomas Church, a prominent immigration lawyer, shortly after arriving in New York, and they were married in 1963. Mr. Church died in 2000. Ms. Church is survived by their son, Thomas.
        ''I feel that my going all over America with my show had a great influence on American black women dressing differently and feeling good about themselves,'' Ms. Church said in ''Black and Beautiful.'' ''I saw them dressing more creatively, more internationally. They could say, 'If she can do it, I can do it, too.' ''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Dorothea T. Church, the first successful black model in Paris, gave an outdated date for the opening of an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, ''Black Style Now,'' in which she will be featured. It is Sept. 9, not Sept. 7.
      