
        Reathel Odum, a bank clerk who was chosen by Senator Harry S. Truman during the Depression to be one of his secretaries and later served in the White House as personal secretary to Bess Truman, died in her hometown, Benton, Ill., on June 6. She was 97.
        Miss Odum's nephew, Richard Odum Hart, said news of her death was not released for several weeks.
        In 17 years with the Trumans -- including two years chaperoning their daughter, Margaret, when she was making national tours as an aspiring classical singer -- Miss Odum became close to the family.
        ''People have urged me to write a book and I said no,'' she said in a 1988 oral history for the Truman Presidential Museum and Library in Independence, Mo. ''I don't know anything that would be tantalizing or gossipy.''
        If it does not offer significant historical observations, Miss Odum's oral history does provide interesting glimpses of Truman and his family, for example, how much he missed Mrs. Truman when she went home to Independence in the summer.
        ''He'd put his head in the office door and say, 'Is there any mail from the Boss? If there isn't, I'm going to fire every one of you,' '' Miss Odum recalled. ''That was a standing joke.''
        While Truman had a reputation for spicy language, Miss Odum said: ''He never did swear in front of us girls. He put women on a pedestal.''
        Asked about Mrs. Truman's role as first lady, Miss Odum said, ''After meeting so many people and shaking their hands at receptions, she would go to her room and soak her hand in paraffin.''
        Born on Sept. 29, 1908, Miss Odum was the youngest of five children. Her father died when she was 4, and her mother raised the family. Miss Odum, who never married, has no immediate survivors.
        She graduated from Benton Township High School in 1926 and soon got a job at a local bank. One day 10 years later, Truman walked into a bank in St. Louis where Miss Odum was working and told its president, a friend, that he needed a secretary. The bank president recommended Miss Odum. ''I was scared to death,'' she recalled. ''I had never talked to a senator before.''
        Miss Odum arrived at Truman's Senate office in Washington in October 1936 and worked there until 1945. She and Mrs. Truman volunteered together at the local U.S.O. during World War II. ''We peeled carrots and did whatever to help entertain soldiers away from home,'' Miss Odum said. Often, they took bike rides around the Tidal Basin.
        Truman became vice president in 1945; less than three months later, President Franklin D. Roosevelt was dead. On his first full day as president, Truman asked Miss Odum to be Mrs. Truman's personal secretary.
        Unlike Eleanor Roosevelt, Mrs. Truman did not like to speak to reporters. Sometimes a ''press girl'' would call and ask what Mrs. Truman would be wearing to a reception, Miss Odum said, and the first lady would say, ''It's none of their business.''
        In 1947, Miss Odum began accompanying Margaret Truman on her concert tours. Asked how Miss Truman reacted to music critics, Miss Odum said: ''She tried not to read the reviews. She had determination to go ahead despite the critics.''
        After her White House service, which ended when Truman left office in 1953, Miss Odum worked as a secretary for Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri, for a coal industry lobbying group and then for the Truman Scholarship Foundation.
        Whenever the Trumans returned to Washington, she said, ''I'd go over to the Mayflower and say hello.''
        Correction:  August 9, 2006, Wednesday  A picture on July 24 with an obituary of Reathel Odum, secretary to Bess Truman when she was first lady, was published in error. The photograph, released by The Associated Press in 1945 and identified as Miss Odum, was actually Jane Lingo (a friend of President Truman's daughter, Margaret).
      