
        Mary Day, one of American ballet's most distinguished teachers and the longtime artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 96.
        The cause was heart failure, said Judith Keyserling, the Washington Ballet spokeswoman.
        Unlike many directors of professional ballet troupes in the United States, Ms. Day was not a major choreographer, financial patron or even a former professional dancer.
        Yet when she and her own teacher, Lisa Gardiner, founded the Washington School of Ballet in 1944 and then a small performing group, she set in motion a pioneering career that had national and international impact.
        That Ms. Day was doing something more than right was spectacularly confirmed by the influx of her students into first-rank companies and by the prizes they won beginning in the 1970's in top international competitions in Moscow; Helsinki, Finland; Lausanne, Switzerland; and Varna, Bulgaria. Her fiercely devoted alumni range from Shirley MacLaine to Kevin McKenzie of American Ballet Theater.
        Some trained with her for a few years but many, like Mr. McKenzie, studied with her since childhood.
        ''To be a really good teacher, one has to truly want each person to learn and to want to touch each student,'' Ms. Day said.
        Attracting pupils from throughout the country (Mr. McKenzie's mother brought him from Vermont), Ms. Day became a nationally recognized teacher. Through the Washington Ballet, a respected regional company of some 20 dancers, she introduced Washington to an adventuresome repertory of old and new works.
        Although guest stars passed through, the Washington Ballet until Ms. Day's retirement as artistic director in 1999, was essentially a showcase for young talent.
        Among Ms. Day's other students were Amanda McKerrow of Ballet Theater, Virginia Johnson of Dance Theater of Harlem, Patrick Corbin of the Joffrey Ballet and the Paul Taylor Dance Company, Mimi Paul of New York City Ballet, Marianna Tcherkassky of Ballet Theater and Bonnie Moore of Ballet Theater and the Royal Ballet. Mr. McKenzie danced with the Joffrey before becoming one of Ballet Theater's danseurs nobles.
        A teacher at heart, Ms. Day was resigned to seeing her most talented pupils leave her company for wider horizons. Ms. McKerrow was a teenager in the Washington Ballet when she made international headlines by winning a gold medal at the 1981 Moscow International Ballet Competition.
        Shortly afterward, Ms. Day said: ''Amanda is due to be a very prominent ballerina in this next generation. She'll probably be here at Washington Ballet for a while. But we want what's best for her.''
        The departure of her best students might have kept the Washington Ballet at the level of a regional company, no matter how admired. Yet the company established a strong presence in Washington, anything but a dance town until the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was built and could present international-level troupes.
        Mary Day was born on Jan. 25, 1910, in Washington, where she studied with Ms. Gardiner, who had danced with Anna Pavlova's company. After founding the Washington School of Ballet in 1944, both women presented their students in children's ballets, often with the National Symphony Orchestra. Ms. Gardiner had called her small performing group the Washington Ballet, a title that was retained when the troupe was reorganized and Ms. Gardiner became artistic adviser in 1956. She died in 1958.
        Ms. Day, whose drive to establish ballet in Washington was accompanied by a brisk elegance, then directed the small company with Frederic Franklin, a star of the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo. When Mr. Franklin left in 1961 to form a new company, the National Ballet, in Washington, Ms. Day shifted her attention to her school, adding an academic wing.
        The National Ballet folded in 1974, and Ms. Day reorganized the Washington Ballet as a professional company in 1976. She was artistic director from 1976 to 1999, when she was succeeded by Septime Webre, the current director. She retired as director of the school in 2003.
        The clarity and musicality that Ms. Day favored as a teacher were reflected in the uncluttered look of the repertory and performances of the Washington Ballet. This was especially true when the company's profile was strongly influenced by the dynamic plotless works of Choo San Goh, from Singapore, the company's resident choreographer from 1976 until his death in 1987. In the years afterward, Ms. Day and Elvi Moore, then the Washington Ballet's general director, encouraged company members and new choreographers to create works for their dancers.
        Ms. Day leaves no immediate survivors.
        Ms. Day's most popular production was her 1961 version of ''The Nutcracker,'' infused with vivid and cozy charm. Daughters of American presidents, including Chelsea Clinton and Caroline Kennedy, passed through the Washington School of Ballet, and Ms. Clinton had a small role in ''The Nutcracker.''
        As for Ms. MacLaine, who grew up in the Washington area, she once thanked her beloved teacher at a benefit performance for recognizing her lack of talent and not encouraging her to go into ballet.
      