
        John Gregory Dunne, the brashly insightful novelist, journalist, and screenwriter who wrote novels and successful works of nonfiction crammed with pungent dialogue, lavish brutality and vivid glimpses of the Hollywood demimonde, died on Tuesday evening in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71.
        Joan Didion, his wife and frequent collaborator, said he had a heart attack as he sat down to dinner and was taken to New York Hospital, where he could not be revived. The couple had just returned from visiting their daughter, Quintana Roo Dunne Michael, who is seriously ill in the hospital, Ms. Didion said.
        Mr. Dunne, whose grappling with his own Irish Catholic background yielded searing literary glimpses into the sometimes-tormented experience of Irish Americans, had often joked in interviews that he would have a priest at his deathbed despite his own oft-expressed disaffection with religion. He did.
        Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion were probably America's best known writing couple, and were anointed as the First Family of Angst by The Saturday Review in 1982 for their unflinching explorations of the national soul, or often, the glaring lack of one. Though they wrote their books separately, they teamed up to write screenplays that more than paid the way for their highly personalized literary forays.
        For Mr. Dunne, these included the semiautobiographical ''Harp'' (Simon & Schuster, 1990) in which he was prescient about his own death when he wrote that a cardiologist advised him he was a candidate for ''a catastrophic cardiovascular event.''
        The title is an American pejorative for the Irish. ''I call myself a harp,'' he wrote, explaining that he liked the word -- ''short, sharp and abusive.''
        It was Mr. Dunne's flair for mining his own experience, from the Army to Hollywood, that yielded his distinctive voice.
        The couple's fascination with the movie industry's knee-jerk skullduggery prompted them to move to Los Angeles for 24 years before moving back to New York in the late 1980's.
        His first major work about Hollywood, ''The Studio'' (Farrar, Straus, 1967), was an inside look at the 20th Century Fox studios. Paul D. Zimmerman, writing in Newsweek, described the city he portrayed as ''a mixture of greed, hypocrisy, shrewd calculation, mad hoopla and boundless optimism.'' In other words, his kind of town.
        An early friend there was the actress Natalie Wood, about whom Mr. Dunne wrote in an article that appears in the current issue of The New York Review of Books.
        ''Like most people in the movie industry she was an enthusiastic gossip,'' he noted approvingly. ''She not only know where the bodies were buried, but under how much dirt.''
        In common with many in the movie business, Mr. Dunne had personal and business lives that could easily blur.
        He wrote that his daughter's friendship with Barbra Streisand's young son resulted in Ms. Streisand's starring in the 1976 remake of ''A Star Is Born,'' for which Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion got a share of the profits for early drafts of the screenplay.
        ''I wasn't crazy about their playing in the cage with the pet lion cub, but I figured what the hell, this was Hollywood,'' Mr. Dunne said in an interview with The New York Times Magazine in 1987.
        Mr. Dunne's life and work both intersected and paralleled that of his older brother Dominick, who also mined the family's past on the margins of high society in Hartford for inspiration. Dominick produced some movies from early screenplays written by his brother and sister-in-law, and like John sometimes fought through depression to create art.
        John Gregory Dunne's best-selling ''True Confessions'' (Dutton, 1977) dealt with a brotherly relationship, between a police lieutenant and a priest. A passage reads:
        ''The effort of speaking had tired him out and all of a sudden I realized that Des has grown old. He was four years younger than me, and with all that tennis and golf he had played in his younger days as chancellor, always leaner and in better shape. But now he was slumped in his chair in this ruin of a parish and I knew why he had called me out to Twenty-Nine Palms.
        '' 'How are you, Des?' I said.
        '' 'I'm going to die, Tommy,' my brother Des said.''
        Mr. Dunne's screenwriting credits, with his wife, included the movie of ''True Confessions,'' which turned out to be a dramatic showcase for Robert Duvall and Robert De Niro.
        His first books were nonfiction, but he verged into novel writing with ''Vegas: A Memoir of a Dark Season'' (Random House, 1974) as his post-nervous-breakdown depression became a filter for his insights.
        He wrote numerous long essays for prominent publications and in 1990 broke into television with his adaptation of the Ernest Hemingway story ''Hills Like White Elephants'' for HBO.
        The writer Calvin Trillin said in an interview yesterday that he admired the quality of Mr. Dunne's observation, as well as the solid elegance of his prose.
        ''He was always kind of testing himself,'' Mr. Trillin said.
        John Gregory Dunne was born May 25, 1932, in Hartford, one of six children of Dr. Richard E. Dunne, a surgeon, and Dorothy Burns Dunne. On his mother's side, Mr. Dunne was a grandson of Dominick Francis Burns, who emigrated to the United States from Ireland in the 19th century, when he was only 10 years old.
        Burns became a prosperous grocer and banker in a section of Hartford known as Frog Hollow, which is where the Irish Catholic immigrants then lived. The culture followed his family when it moved to prosperous West Hartford.
        Initially, young John was ashamed of being an Irish-American. He found the Irish in this country a parochial lot. But as he matured and tried to define himself, he found he was drawn to Frog Hollow, which, he said, gave him a strong sense of who he was.
        But, typically, he put a humorous edge on that, saying that his family went ''from steerage to the suburbs in three generations.''
        As a boy, Mr. Dunne stuttered, and so he found it reassuring to write whatever it was he had to say in order to give a better account of himself. The more he wrote, the better he got at capturing the speech patterns of others on paper. His mother wanted him to be a gentleman -- a businessman -- and in preparation for that, his family sent him to the Portsmouth Priory school, a Rhode Island institution run by the Benedictines.
        He did well enough there to gain admission to Princeton, from which he earned his bachelor's degree in 1954. Soon after graduation, he volunteered for the Army before he was drafted, and underwent basic training at Fort Chaffee, Ark., where he did not distinguish himself. He lost his rifle, a mistake he called ''the military equivalent of a mortal sin,'' and he failed to qualify on the firing range with whatever weapon they gave him to replace the one he had lost.
        After his discharge, he dismayed his mother by choosing not to attend a business school and instead went to New York City. He worked at first for an advertising agency and eventually for Time magazine, then a highly stylized and unabashedly conservative Republican organ. Mr. Dunne remained at Time for five years and liked journalism, but decided he did not want to do it the way most journalists did.
        Specifically, he did not like asking questions that might intrude on people's normal thinking process. He preferred simply to listen to people talk to one another, the way Charles Dickens had. His hope, he said, was to be ''an end table in somebody's life.''
        ''A writer is an eternal outsider, his nose pressed against whatever window on the other side of which he sees his material,'' he once wrote. ''Resentment sharpens his eye, hostility hones his killer instinct.''
        In New York, Mr. Dunne met Ms. Didion, who had her own writerly aspirations and was already achieving some of them. They decided to share an apartment in New York, and were married in 1964.
        Soon thereafter, they visited the West Coast and agreed that for them, it held the stuff of which good novels could be wrought. They used journalism to pave the way. In 1967, using Los Angeles as their base, they began to write a column called Points West for The Saturday Evening Post when the venerable magazine was in its final days.
        Ms. Didion's reputation as a serious writer was noted before Mr. Dunne's, especially after publication of her collection of essays ''Slouching Toward Bethlehem'' (Farrar, Straus, 1968).
        In 1971, Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion attracted considerable critical attention when they collaborated on the screenplay for ''Panic in Needle Park,'' based on James Mill's nonfiction book, which was co-produced by Dominick. The movie received positive reviews, but Mr. Dunne said he thought of it as ''Romeo and Juliet on junk.''
        Mr. Dunne still had not come into his own, however. He collaborated with his wife once again on a screenplay for ''Play It As It Lays,'' based on her much-praised novel of the same name. Both writers tended to regard movie scripts as a way to earn money, but Mr. Dunne was aware that with all their success, some critics still thought of him as Joan Didion's husband. Friends said he not only did not mind, but often bragged about her successes.
        In 1977, Mr. Dunne wrote ''True Confessions,'' whose plot which he had started to think about when he was in the midst of writing ''Vegas.'' His interest in this project had developed after he read about an unsolved murder of 1947, which was frequently referred to as the Black Dahlia murder case. The case centered on a prostitute whose body, cut in half, was found in a vacant lot in Los Angeles.
        If ''True Confessions'' did not establish Mr. Dunne as the literary equal of his wife, it certainly made him the peer of other writers on the best-seller list.
        After the 1978 publication of 33 of his essays in a book titled ''Quintana and Friends'' (his daughter, Quintana Roo, was named after a state in southern Mexico), Mr. Dunne turned to another novel, ''Dutch Shea Jr.,'' which was published in 1982 and was populated by pimps, prostitutes, drug pushers, mobsters and lawyers of attenuated virtue. He dedicated this book to his maternal grandfather and to his younger brother, Stephen, who committed suicide while the book was being written.
        In addition to his wife, his daughter and his brother Dominick, Mr. Dunne is survived by another brother, Richard, who lives in Harwichport, Mass., on Cape Cod.
        ''The Red, White and Blue'' (Simon & Schuster), a sweeping and blackly humorous look at recent American history, appeared in 1987.
        In 1994, after he had moved back to New York, Mr. Dunne wrote ''Playland'' (Random House), which a Washington Post reviewer called ''Dunne's version of 'The Great Gatsby.' ''
        Three years later he wrote ''Monster: Living Off the Big Screen'' (Random House), his most recently published book. His last novel is to be published this summer by Knopf.
        ''Monster'' was an account of the eight years Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion spent writing the screenplay that became the movie ''Up Close and Personal,'' which was inspired by the life of the late TV anchorwoman Jessica Savitch. Mr. Dunne felt he ought to explain how it came to pass that a movie could consume eight years of his and his wife's time, during which they created 27 drafts of the script.
        Never far from journalism, Mr. Dunne covered the trial of O. J. Simpson in 1995 and 1996 for The New York Review of Books, while Dominick covered it for Vanity Fair.
        John Gregory Dunne said he did not believe that writers ought to talk very much about writing and he did not believe that much needed to be said about them after they were dead.
        ''I agree with William Faulkner,'' he remarked, ''who once said that a writer's obituary should read, 'He wrote books, then he died.' ''
        Correction:  February 12, 2004, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the writer John Gregory Dunne on Jan. 1 referred incorrectly to the victim in the Black Dahlia murder case in Los Angeles, the basis of his novel ''True Confessions.'' The victim, often described as a would-be actress, was not a prostitute. Also because of an editing error, the obituary misstated the surname of the author of ''Panic in Needle Park,'' a nonfiction book that Mr. Dunne and his wife, Joan Didion, turned into a screenplay. He is James Mills, not Mill. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.
      