
        Brig. Gen. Amato Semenza, a retired Roman Catholic educator and former commander of the New York Guard, died on Feb. 1 at his home in Clifton Park, N.Y. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        General Semenza was named to head the state guard, the all-volunteer component of the State Division of Military and Naval Affairs, by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1973. He held the post, which is unsalaried, until 1987.
        The state guard provides support and logistical services, as directed by the governor, for National Guard units called to active duty or for civilian emergencies. It was created in 1917 to secure the home front when National Guard troops in the state were mobilized for combat in Europe.
        A native of Manhattan, Amato Semenza, who was known as Matty, was born on Dec. 19, 1919, in a walk-up on Mulberry Street. He received a bachelor of science degree and a master's in education at Fordham University before starting his teaching career. In World War II, he saw action as an Army officer in North Africa and Italy and continued to rise in rank in the Army National Guard after returning to the classroom.
        He joined the Fordham faculty in 1946, teaching speech and theater, and in 1955 went to work for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany. He rose to diocesan superintendent of schools and director of the diocesan office of development and stewardship.
        Over the years, he was executive director of the National Catholic Stewardship Council and was active on the New York State Council of Catholic School Superintendents, the National Catholic Education Association and the American Association of Supervision and Curriculum Development. He retired in 1988.
        General Semenza is survived by his wife of 54 years, Renata Gouthier Semenza; three daughters, Amata Eels Miller of Binghamton, N.Y., Monique Staucet of Clifton Park, and Nadine Laniewski of Scarborough, Me.; four sons, Renato, of Encinitas, Calif., Michael, of Newport, R.I., Christopher, of Clifton Park, and Peter, of Halfmoon, N.Y.; a brother, Alfonso, of Edison, N.J.; and 18 grandchildren.
      