
        Dr. Celso-Ramón García, whose research in the 1950's advanced the development of the birth control pill, died on Feb. 1 in Boston, where he was visiting a relative. He was 82 and lived in Merion Station, Pa., outside Philadelphia.
        The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his daughter, Sarita G. Cole of Virginia Beach.
        Dr. García led an early clinical trial among women in Puerto Rico, testing and refining an oral contraceptive that had been developed largely by Dr. Gregory G. Pincus and Dr. John Rock. Through the work of Dr. García and others, an effective pill was produced; its basic concept remains, though the dosage has been reduced. The pill blocks release of a hormone used to stimulate eggs during ovulation. It was approved for use in the United States in 1960.
        ''It sounds so simple today,'' said Dr. Luigi Mastroianni Jr., a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. García later practiced and helped found a division of human reproduction. ''But it was revolutionary. Dr. García established the clinical effectiveness of a very important theory.''
        Dr. García was born in New York City. He received an undergraduate degree from Queens College before graduating from Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York in 1945.
        After serving in the Army Medical Corps, he completed residencies and a fellowship at Cumberland Hospital in Brooklyn, where he met his future wife, Shirley Stoddard, a nurse. In 1953, Dr. García entered academia and became an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Puerto Rico.
        He next went to Harvard but continued his research based in Puerto Rico. He moved to the University of Pennsylvania in 1965, where he was a professor of human reproduction. He became a professor emeritus in 1992.
        He was president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine in 1982-83 and was a fellow of the American College of Surgeons.
        Dr. García's wife died on Jan. 2. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a son, Celso-Ramón Jr., of Philadelphia; a brother, Dr. Edward García of Berlin, N.H.; a sister, Oliva Ibanez of Massachusetts; and four grandchildren.
      