
        Cem Karaca, one of the founders of Turkish rock music, died on Feb. 8 in Istanbul. He was 58.
        The cause was heart failure, the Bakirkoy Acibadem Hospital announced.
        Mr. Karaca's concerts and 24 albums won fans in Turkey and Western Europe. With his signature felt hat, big brown eyeglasses, long hair and, in later years, thick gray beard, he became one of the symbols of the politically conscious generation of 1968 in Turkey.
        He combined strong patriotic feeling for his country with a leftist stand against the growing right-wing movement and sometimes outspoken criticism of political corruption and social injustice. His politics led to an eight-year exile in Germany.
        Mr. Karaca (pronounced kuh-RAH-jah) was born on April 5, 1945, to an Armenian mother and a Turkish father of Iranian origin, both professional actors. He began his career in 1967 as a singer in a band called Apaslar; his popularity reached its peak with his fusion of traditional Anatolian rhythms with elements of contemporary rock.
        It was not only his dark bass voice that won millions of fans in Turkey but also his political message, in both songs and statements, which grew stronger during political unrest in Turkey in the late 1970's. He fled to Germany in 1979, a year before Turkey's third military coup, to avoid growing political pressure and threats of prosecution. After the military takeover, he was ordered to return to Turkey to face charges of inciting terror and anarchy. His refusal cost him his citizenship.
        He could not return to Turkey until 1987; he eventually won back his citizenship with the help of Turgut Ozal, the prime minister of the new civilian government.
        His acceptance of support from Mr. Ozal, a member of the center-right party, was severely criticized in leftist circles as a political betrayal. But he repeatedly said his loyalty to his people and country was bigger than his loyalty to a political party.
        In the second phase of his career he combined themes of Islam, peace and nationalism in his songs as well as in his life.
        Mr. Karaca is survived by his wife, Ilkin Erkal Karaca, and his son, Emrah, from his first marriage, to Feride Balkan.
        When Mr. Karaca was a young man his father hired people to boo at his first concert, hoping to persuade him to quit singing and pursue a career as a diplomat. He was not discouraged; in a sense he followed his father's wishes by using his music to spread his message of unity.
      