
        Lawrence S. Ritter, whose pioneering oral history ''The Glory of Their Times'' recounted the baseball world of the early 20th century, died Sunday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 81.
        He had a series of strokes in recent years, said Marty Appel, a friend and former public relations director of the Yankees.
        In the early 1960's, when reel-to-reel tape recorders were bulky and unwieldy, Mr. Ritter traveled 75,000 miles in a five-year period to hear the voices from an era when roughneck ballplayers came out of farms and small towns with battered suitcases, when baseballs were dead and spitballs very much alive.
        Mr. Ritter located old-time baseball stars living in obscurity and asked them of a time when their deeds were the stuff of headlines. ''The Glory of Their Times: The Story of the Early Days of Baseball Told by the Men Who Played It,'' published by Macmillan in 1966, became a classic of baseball history.
        By Mr. Ritter's account, the book had sold some 360,000 copies in various editions as of two years ago. The original tapes went to the Baseball Hall of Fame, but the voices can still be heard on cassette tapes and compact discs.
        Mr. Ritter shared royalties with the players he interviewed. He earned less than $35,000 from the book, according to Mr. Appel.
        Mr. Ritter, a professor of finance at New York University for about 30 years, conceived the book when Ty Cobb died in Georgia in 1961. ''It seemed to me then that someone should do something, and do it quickly, to record for the future the remembrances of a sport that has played such a significant role in American life,'' he wrote in his preface.
        Twenty-two baseball figures provided remembrances in the original edition. The New York Giants' Al Bridwell told of witnessing the 1908 base-running misadventure known as Merkle's boner. Smoky Joe Wood told of winning three games for the Boston Red Sox in their victory over the Giants in the 1912 World Series. Cleveland Indians second baseman Bill Wambsganss described turning an unassisted triple play against the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1920 World Series.
        Writing in The New York Times, Thomas Lask called Mr. Ritter's book ''an authentic piece of Americana.''
        Davy Jones, a Detroit Tigers outfielder who played with Cobb, told Mr. Ritter of America in the years before World War I.
        ''By the turn of the century, you know, we didn't have the mass communication and mass transportation that exist nowadays,'' Jones recalled. ''We didn't have as much schooling, either. As a result, people were more unique then, more unusual, more different from each other. Now people are all, more or less, alike, company men, security minded, conformity -- that sort of stuff. In everything, not just baseball.''
        Lawrence Stanley Ritter, a native of New York City, graduated from Indiana University and received a doctorate from the University of Wisconsin. While teaching finance and economics at N.Y.U., he collaborated with William L. Silber and Gregory F. Udell in writing ''Principles of Money, Banking, and Financial Markets,'' which was published in 1974 and has been issued in many editions. Mr. Ritter wrote several sports books, including an illustrated history of Babe Ruth's career, ''The Babe: A Life in Pictures,'' with Mark Rucker.
        He is survived by a son, Stephen, of Mexico; a brother, Kenneth, of Seattle; and a granddaughter. His two marriages ended in divorce.
        Mr. Ritter took the title for his oral history from a phrase in Ecclesiasticus: ''All these were honored in their generations, and were the glory of their times.''
        As for modern times, Mr. Ritter told David Margolick in an interview for The New York Times in 2002: ''I don't like the players, I don't like the umpires, I don't like the owners. But I love the game.''
      