
        Paul Ilyinsky, who as mayor of Palm Beach, Fla., in the 1990's laid claim to being the only member of the Romanov family to hold an elected office, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Palm Beach. He was 76.
        The cause has not been determined, his son Michael said, but he had multiple health problems.
        Mr. Ilyinsky was a second cousin to Czar Nicholas II and a great-great-grandson of Alexander II. He served as mayor of Palm Beach for seven years and as a city councilman for 11 years. His first race for mayor, in 1987, gained national attention because he was running against Yvelyne de Marcellus Marix, who said he was a descendant of Charlemagne. Mr. Ilyinsky lost. He won election in 1993 and served until 2000.
        Paul Romanov Ilyinsky was born in London on Jan. 27, 1928, son of Grand Duke Dmitri Pavlovich, a cousin of Nicholas II who was exiled after participating in the famously difficult killing of Rasputin, and Audrey Emery, an heiress from a Cincinnati industrialist family. Mr. Ilyinsky's parents divorced in 1937, and when World War II broke out, he left Europe to live with his mother in the United States and became an American citizen.
        He enlisted in the Marine Corps after high school and during a break in his service attended the University of Virginia. After returning to the military for the Korean War, he joined a business of his mother's family, selling real estate in Cincinnati.
        In 1979, Mr. Ilyinsky moved to Palm Beach where, in addition to his political career, he amassed enormous collections of toy soldiers and model trains.
        In addition to his son Michael, of Cincinnati, he is survived by his wife, Angelica, of Palm Beach; two daughters, Paula Comisar and Anne Glossenger, both of Cincinnati; a second son, Dmitri, of Litchfield, Conn.; a stepson, George Lock of Cincinnati; and nine grandchildren.
        Robert K. Massie, a historian of the Romanovs, said that Mr. Ilyinsky could have made a claim to the Russian throne, but that he was not interested. In an interview with Mr. Massie, he said: ''I am an American and I already have a public office to which I was elected. I am the mayor.''
        Correction:  February 18, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Paul Ilyinsky, a member of the Romanov family who became mayor of Palm Beach, misstated his relationship to two Russian czars. He was a great-grandson of Alexander II (not a great-great-grandson) and a first cousin of Nicholas II once removed (not a second cousin). Because of an editing error, the obituary referred incorrectly to his opponent in his first race for mayor. Yvelyne de Marcellus Marix is a woman.
      