
        Frank del Olmo, who as an editor, columnist and reporter for The Los Angeles Times became nationally known for his sharp insights into the concerns of Hispanic-Americans, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 55.
        Mr. del Olmo collapsed in his office, apparently after a heart attack, and was pronounced dead at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles, the paper announced on its Web site (www.latimes.com).
        Mr. del Olmo, who started at The Times as an intern 34 years ago, shared a Pulitzer Prize in 1984, for Meritorious Public Service, awarded for the series ''Southern California's Latino Community.'' His many other positions at the paper included editorial writer, deputy editor of the editorial page, op-ed page columnist and, most recently, associate editor.
        Besides writing and editing, he was known for recruiting talented Latinos into the newsroom and for expanding The Times's coverage of Southern California's Latinos.
        In 2002, Mr. del Olmo was named to the Hall of Fame of the National Association of Hispanic Journalists. He was a founding member of the California Chicano News Media Association in 1972 and was president for two terms.
        His influence went beyond Los Angeles to other places where his column appeared in syndication. For example, The Miami Herald and many other newspapers printed his last column, discussing Hispanic reaction to the military service of President Bush and Senator John Kerry, the leading Democratic presidential candidate.
        ''So, who is more likely to get Latino voter support in November: a former National Guard flyboy from Texas or a former Navy officer from Massachusetts?'' the column asked.
        His answer was not clear-cut. He said Hispanic voters would be uncomfortable with Mr. Kerry's throwing away his medals in protest of the war but would also question whether Mr. Bush had fulfilled his obligation to the Texas Air National Guard.
        Mr. del Olmo was born on May 18, 1948, in Los Angeles. He attended the University of California, Los Angeles, and graduated magna cum laude from California State University at Northridge, where he was selected as both the outstanding journalism graduate and the outstanding overall graduate.
        He began at The Times as an intern reporter in 1970 and 1971, then was a staff writer specializing in Latin American affairs for most of the next decade.
        In 1995, he wrote his first column, on his son, Frankie, who has autism. He followed with annual updates on how Frankie was doing. In addition to Frankie, Mr. del Olmo's survivors include his wife, Magdalena, and a daughter, Valentina.
      