
        Ibram Lassaw, an artist known mainly for his colorful, open-form metal sculptures and one of the last links to the original generation of the New York School artists, died on Tuesday at his home in the Springs section of East Hampton, N.Y, his family said. He was 90.
        Though he never achieved the fame of his friends Jackson Pollock or Willem de Kooning, Mr. Lassaw's devotion to abstraction put him at the forefront of ideas in post-World War II American sculpture. By 1933 he had developed a steadfast opposition to the idea that art needed to represent something, and elements of his sculpture in the 30's anticipated Abstract Expressionism, though he considered that term misleading.
        Unlike some of his more famous contemporaries, Mr. Lassaw led a long, stable life, taking vitamins, avoiding cigarettes and working in his studio.
        Ibram Lassaw was born on May 4, 1913, to Russian émigré parents in Alexandria, Egypt, and moved with his family to New York eight years later. He already considered himself a sculptor at 13, when he began taking sculpture classes at the Brooklyn Children's Museum. In 1930 and 1931 he attended the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in Manhattan, and he enrolled at City College, but soon dropped out. Self-taught in all the liberal arts, he began compiling a scrapbook encyclopedia of art history when he was 12, a project that stretched to 33 volumes.
        He continued studying and sculpturing in his 20's and 30's, living in lofts in Greenwich Village, often without electricity or running water. Though most of this time was spent in poverty, he later recalled it as a period of spirited conversations with artists and writers like Arshile Gorky and Joseph Campbell.
        In 1936 he helped found the American Abstract Artists, devoted to nonrepresentational art, writing in an essay at the time that he and his fellow artists must ''work as though the art of the past never existed; as though we invented art.''
        In 1949 another influential group, the Club, formally met for the first time. Formed so that artists could meet in some place other than the dingy Eighth Street cafeterias, the Club had founding members that included de Kooning and Franz Kline.
        Like many other New York School artists, Mr. Lassaw supported himself during the Depression with assignments from the Federal Arts Project. During World War II he was drafted into the Army, and later, using welding skills he had picked up in the Army, he experimented with fusing metal rods with an oxyacetylene torch, working without a preliminary sketch to create irregular weblike structures. He added color by treating the metals with acids and alkaloids or by varying the alloys within the sculpture.
        He did not sell his first significant sculpture until 1951, but the buyer was Nelson Rockefeller, who ended up purchasing 10 more pieces. That same year, Mr. Lassaw had his first solo exhibition, at the Samuel Kootz Gallery in Manhattan.
        The titles of Mr. Lassaw's pieces, like ''Milky Way'' and ''Moons of Saturn,'' often reflected his interest in astronomy and natural science, but he tried to keep the titles vague so they would not imply a reference to anything specific in the work.
        In 1954 Mr. Lassaw bought a few acres in Springs and started building a house; he and his wife, Ernestine, moved there permanently in 1962. He spent most of his remaining years working on his art, often spending the entire day in a studio behind the house, welding and listening to Bach fugues at top volume.
        His sculptures are in the permanent collections of museums including the Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
        He is survived by his wife and his daughter, Denise, who lives in Springs and Anchor Point, Alaska.
        In a 1994 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Lassaw outlined the artistic principle to which he held fast for more than 60 years: ''Whenever something becomes a representation,'' he said, ''I know I must carry it farther. I want my sculpture to be only its self, not something to be looked through in order to find the associative image.''
      