
        Clark Byers, who for three decades painted ''See Rock City'' on more than 900 barns from Michigan to Florida, died Thursday. He was 89 and lived in Trenton, Ga.
        Mr. Byers was hospitalized last week after a heart attack and had been ill for the last three years, said his daughter Nancy Newgard.
        Born in Alabama, Mr. Byers worked in a cotton mill and bottled buttermilk for $3 a week before he was hired in 1936 by a Chattanooga, Tenn., advertiser who hoped to lure motorists to Rock City Gardens, a tourist attraction of rock formations in the nearby Georgia mountains, by painting slogans on barn roofs.
        Equipped with paint, chalk, brushes, ropes and two helpers, Mr. Byers drove the highways looking for barns to carry slogans like ''To Miss Rock City Would Be a Pity'' and ''See 7 States From Rock City.'' Willing barn owners got a free paint job, Rock City bathmats and thermometers for their trouble, according to The Associated Press. Those who wanted more than knickknacks were paid about $5.
        Mr. Byers braved charging bulls, slippery roofs and lightning bolts to get the job done.
        ''His message became a national brand for Rock City Gardens,'' said Bill Chapin, president of See Rock City Inc., which owns and operates the gardens.
        Allen Tullos, a professor of American studies at Emory University in Atlanta, said Mr. Byers's work was ''classic testimonial advertising that builds its truth on such trustworthy everyday objects such as barns and birdhouses. These are familiar objects that you could not distrust at any time. It's like a testimonial from your neighbor.''
        After his barn painting stint, Mr. Byers owned Sequoyah Caverns and Campground in Alabama before retiring to his farm. His daughter said he spent his spare time painting the occasional sign for a church or high school ballfield, hunting raccoons, watching University of Alabama football and playing golf at least once a week.
        ''My dad never had any aspirations to be famous,'' said Mrs. Newgard, of Trenton. ''He loved Rock City Gardens and enjoyed what he did for them for 30 years. He was proud of his work and very particular about it.''
        He was so particular, Mrs. Newgard said, that he often bristled when he saw paintings that reproduced his barns. Her father painted his letters freehand, and never thought that artists depicted his letters well.
        ''He'd say, 'That's not good. My lettering was better than that.' '' she said.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances; two sons, James L., of Tiftonia, Tenn., and Richard, of Ringgold, Ga.; and in addition to Mrs. Newgard, a second daughter, Emma Hilliard of Trenton.
      