
        Dr. Jordi Casals-Ariet, the epidemiologist who was nearly killed in 1969 by Lassa fever while his team at Yale was discovering the virus that causes it, died in Manhattan on Feb. 10, his wife, Ellen, said yesterday. He was 92.
        Lassa fever is one of the hemorrhagic fever viruses, and its discovery was as striking as any in the history of virology. Yale halted research into it because infections acquired in the laboratory there killed one worker, in addition to making Dr. Casals deathly ill.
        Further research was conducted in a maximum-security laboratory at what is now known as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
        Dr. Casals's team found the Lassa fever virus in the blood of three missionary nurses from the United States who had become ill in northern Nigeria. Two of the nurses died there. The third was Lily Pinneo, who had cared for her two nursing colleagues in Nigeria. She flew to Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, where she recovered after a nine-week stay.
        Widespread publicity about the discovery of the virus and the laboratory accidents ushered in a new era of laboratory safety, and Dr. Casals was one of the first to adopt the new procedures. The circumstances surrounding the discovery awakened public interest in the threat of importing dangerous infectious agents and led health officials to begin recommending stricter isolation precautions in carrying sick passengers.
        Doctors caring for the American nurses sent their blood samples to the Yale laboratory, where the researchers knew that the virus produced a fever as high as 107 degrees, mouth ulcers, a skin rash with tiny hemorrhages, pneumonia and other problems.
        ''It took great courage to work with viruses in those days because every worker knew that his or her life was in danger,'' said Dr. Gregory H. Tignor, a retired Yale professor who worked with Dr. Casals.
        Other scientists had become infected while investigating dangerous microbes. And in an interview at the time, Dr. Casals said, ''We were aware of the dangers of our research, but we had commitments to the doctors and patients.''
        Working cautiously, the Yale team quickly showed evidence of a virus, but it was only after months of tests that it was able to say the virus was new. By custom, it named the virus for the place where it was first detected, in this case, Lassa, a Nigerian village about 150 miles south of the Sahara.
        Dr. Casals first felt ill in June 1969, shortly after he began working with the virus. But he said he did not think he had Lassa fever because his severe thigh-muscle aching was a symptom the nurses had escaped. A friend persuaded him to go to Columbia-Presbyterian. As Dr. Casals's illness became increasingly severe, his doctors grew to suspect the virus he was investigating.
        In desperation, his doctors had Ms. Pinneo fly to Manhattan from her home in Rochester so that doctors could take some of her blood, separate the plasma part that contained the antibodies that allowed her to recover, and inject them into Dr. Casals. But the procedure, untested for the fever, was at best risky.
        ''We gathered in a room and debated that thing up and down, back and forth, while Jordi was sinking very, very fast,'' Dr. Tignor said. ''We did not know for sure whether giving him those antibodies would be a good thing or a bad thing, but we decided to go ahead, and we held our breath. It was downright scary.''
        The antibodies saved Dr. Casals's life. He continued the research until a technician on the team, Juan Roman, died in December 1969.
        ''The accidents occurred because we didn't have the technology to prevent them,'' Dr. Tignor said.
        The accidents also coincided with publication of ''The Andromeda Strain,'' the best-selling novel by Michael Crichton about a calamity that struck after a satellite brought an unclassifiable micro-organism back to earth.
        The director of the Yale laboratory, Dr. Wilbur G. Downs, was reading the book at the time and suddenly stopped reading, fearing that Lassa fever might wipe out New Haven and the Eastern Seaboard, Dr. Charles H. Calisher, a professor at Colorado State University, said, recalling a conversation with Dr. Downs.
        Dr. Casals was also known as a leader in hiring women and members of minority groups, long before affirmative action, Dr. Tignor said.
        ''He was the kind of person you wanted to work with, and people came from all over the world to work in his lab,'' Dr. Tignor said.
        Dr. Casals walked with a slight limp left from an attack of childhood polio that, in his retirement years, left him with muscle weakness from postpolio syndrome.
        Lassa was one of many viruses that Dr. Casals discovered. His landmark work was developing a classification system of viruses, particularly those spread by mosquitoes and other insects, Dr. Tignor said.
        Jordi Casals-Ariet was born in Viladrau, Girona, in Spain on May 15, 1911. He served with the Spanish Army before earning his medical degree from the University of Barcelona in 1934. After interning there, Dr. Casals moved to Manhattan and worked at Cornell University Medical College from 1936 to 1938, when he joined the Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research in Manhattan.
        Dr. Casals used the crude techniques available then to begin to classify viruses. When more sophisticated methods were developed, ''all they did was confirm what he had done, that is how meticulous he was,'' Dr. Calisher said.
        ''The whole field of viral taxonomy developed from what Jordi did,'' he added.
        In 1952, Dr. Casals joined the Rockefeller Foundation. It supported field stations around the world where scientists collected samples from people and animals and sent them to Dr. Casals, asking his team to identify them.
        Dr. Calisher said that when he worked at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, he collaborated with Dr. Casals to build what became a World Health Organization reference center for certain viral diseases.
        When the Rockefeller Foundation moved its program concerning insect-borne infections to Yale in 1964, Dr. Casals became a professor of epidemiology there. He commuted daily between Manhattan and New Haven.
        After retiring from Yale in 1981, Dr. Casals joined the faculty of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan, where he worked until his death. He published his last scientific paper in 1998.
        In addition to his wife, the former Ellen Evelyn Brock, he is survived by a daughter, Dr. Christina Casals-Ariet, a psychiatrist, of Manhattan.
      