
        Warren Zimmermann, the last American ambassador to Yugoslavia, who held senior diplomatic posts in several other countries, died Tuesday at his home in Great Falls, Va. He was 69.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, Tim.
        Mr. Zimmermann served in a united Yugoslavia beginning in 1989 and was recalled by the elder Bush's administration in 1992 to protest the increasing violence of the civil war there.
        Seeing the country's breakup and the further increase in violence along nationalist lines, he urged the Clinton administration to take military action.
        When that administration at first demurred at the use of force, Mr. Zimmermann resigned in protest from his next job, as director of refugee affairs, in 1994.
        In more than three decades in the Foreign Service, Mr. Zimmermann served in France, Austria, Spain, Switzerland, Venezuela and the Soviet Union. He was chairman of the United States delegation to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and was a deputy in negotiations with the Soviet Union over nuclear arms and space.
        But Mr. Zimmermann's focus at the peak of his career was on Yugoslavia, and that country's disintegration both surprised and horrified him. When he first settled in Belgrade as ambassador, he was quick to dismiss the centrifugal forces pulling the country apart. ''I believe it will stick together as a unified country,'' he told The Boston Globe in 1990.
        Yet the violence grew, primarily fueled by the nationalist appeals of the Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic, and Muslims were the target of a plan of ''ethnic cleansing.'' Mr. Zimmermann, who had been strongly supportive of the Bush administration's policy, increasingly spoke of the need to curb Serbian aggression.
        After his recall by the Bush administration in 1992, he directed the State Department's Bureau of Refugee Programs.
        Secretary of State Colin L. Powell yesterday called Mr. Zimmermann ''among our finest career ambassadors'' and ''an eloquent defender of human rights and refugees.''
        In 1994 he became the most prominent of several Foreign Service officers who quit their jobs and left the Foreign Service to dramatize the need for intervention in Bosnia.
        Warren Christopher, then secretary of state, recognized Mr. Zimmermann's principled stand soon after he resigned.
        ''For 33 years, Warren Zimmermann has devoted his professional life to the meticulous and thoughtful promotion of American interests abroad, and he has earned the respect he enjoys here and overseas,'' Mr. Christopher said.
        When the Clinton administration eventually persuaded NATO to bomb Serbian positions and brokered a peace agreement in Dayton, Ohio, to end the war, Mr. Zimmermann felt vindicated, his son said.
        ''He was very gratified when the Clinton administration did intervene militarily, but he would have been more gratified if they had acted sooner and saved more lives,'' Tim Zimmermann said.
        Mr. Zimmermann, who grew up in Haverford, Pa., graduated from Yale and was a Fulbright scholar at Cambridge University. He entered the diplomatic corps in 1961.
        He was a student of history and wrote three books. His first, ''Origins of a Catastrophe: Yugoslavia and Its Destroyers,'' won the American Academy of Diplomacy book award for 1997.
        His second book, released in 2002, is about the rise of America as a world power after the Spanish-American War.
        His last book, ''First Great Triumph: How Five Americans Made Their Country a World Power'' (2002), about the Spanish-American War, also won the book award from the American Academy of Diplomacy.
        He is survived by his wife, Corinne; his daughters Corinne, of Watertown, Mass., and Lily, of London; his son, Tim, of Washington; his brother, Albert, of Flourtown, Pa.; and his sisters Barbara Johnson of Radnor, Pa., and Helene Hill of West Orange, N.J.
        Correction:  February 9, 2004, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Thursday about Warren Zimmermann, the last United States ambassador to Yugoslavia, misstated the number of books he wrote on diplomacy. It was two, not three. ''First Great Triumph: How Five Americans Made Their Country a World Power'' (2002) was his second. (The first was ''Origins of a Catastrophe: Yugoslavia and Its Destroyers.'')
      