
        Walter F. Riker Jr., former chairman of the pharmacology department at Cornell Medical College, who in 1973 became the first drug adviser to the National Football League, died on Feb. 20 in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J.
        Dr. Riker died at New York Hospital,his son Walter said.
        Dr. Riker, an expert on the effects of drugs on the muscular and neuromuscular systems, was chosen as an adviser to the N.F.L. at a time when the league faced a series of drug scandals, including revelations of widespread amphetamine use by players.
        As drug adviser, Dr. Riker focused on the use of prescription drugs, setting up a system requiring team doctors to report painkillers, antibiotics and other medications prescribed to players.
        The league also took actions to prevent players from using and distributing prescription drugs obtained illegally or from doctors unaffiliated with their team.
        In the early 1980's, Dr. Riker helped address the growing use of cocaine in the N.F.L.
        At the time, he told The New York Times that it was easy for him to spot players who were using the drug: they were the players who seemed exhausted after a series of plays or too jittery while standing on the sidelines.
        Dr. Riker also increased the N.F.L.'s attention to steroids, telling the league in 1983 that he suspected that there was widespread use of them by players trying to increase strength and stamina.
        He warned of the drugs' side effects, which include lowered sperm count, alterations in liver function and possible behavioral changes. The league began random testing for steroid use in 1990.
        Walter Franklyn Riker Jr. was born in the Bronx on March 8, 1916. A graduate of Columbia University and Cornell Medical College, he began teaching at the medical college in 1944 and became chairman of its pharmacology department in 1956. He retired from the medical college in 1983. He retired as the N.F.L.'s drug adviser in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Virginia, of Fort Lee; his sons Donald, of Chattanooga, Tenn., Walter F. Riker III of Aurora, Ill., and Wayne, of San Diego; his brother, William, of Lake Oswego, Ore.; his sister, Virginia Heubner of Wells, Me.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      