
        James J. Jordan Jr., widely considered one of the premier sloganeers of Madison Avenue, who popularized brands like Schaefer beer and Wisk detergent, died Wednesday while snorkeling on a vacation in the Virgin Islands with his wife, Mary Helen. He was 73 and lived in White Plains.
        Determination of the cause of death is pending, said a son, Michael; it is believed to have been a heart attack.
        Mr. Jordan's advertising career spanned five decades, bridging the era when slogans were a predominant way to peddle products and the era when slogans were reclaimed as ''retro chic'' touchstones of brand heritage and character.
        Among his slogans were: ''Schaefer is the one beer to have when you're having more than one,'' ''Us Tareyton smokers would rather fight than switch,'' ''Delta is ready when you are,'' ''Quaker Oatmeal, it's the right thing to do'' and ''Wisk beats ring around the collar.''
        The slogans written by Mr. Jordan -- many of them still ensconced in the vernacular -- were considered more sophisticated than those that preceded his, which were mostly simple, even simplistic, reiterations of brand names or phrases, like ''L.S.M.F.T.'' (Lucky Strike means fine tobacco).
        Rather, Mr. Jordan specialized in a form of sloganeering known as nameonics, a play on mnemonics, which stressed linking a brand name to product qualities or intended benefits. The goal was to help consumers remember the sponsor as they faced ever-growing platoons of products on increasingly crowded store shelves.
        For instance, Mr. Jordan's slogan for Schaefer beer, written in 1961, was based on research by the brewer indicating that 80 percent of the beer sold in the United States was bought by 20 percent of the drinkers. He noted a line in a report Schaefer prepared that described the brand as ''one beer for heavy drinkers to consume when they are engaged in a substantive drinking experience.''
        For Tareyton cigarettes, Mr. Jordan's goal was to reinforce the ardor of the brand's loyal smokers. That led to the ''rather fight than switch'' campaign, in which the makeup the models wore made it seem as if they were sporting black eyes, presumably earned in battles with smokers of other cigarettes.
        The ''Ring around the collar'' slogan for Wisk detergent came about because it was a liquid detergent that could be poured directly onto stains. A complementary jingle in commercials accompanied by the chanting of the slogan by a children's chorus made it one of those campaigns consumers loved to hate, propelling Wisk into the lead in its category.
        Other examples of Mr. Jordan's handiwork include ''How do you handle a hungry man? The Manhandlers,'' for a line of soups from Campbell; ''Zest-fully clean'' for Zest soap; and ''It's the right thing to do'' for Quaker, punched up by the avuncular delivery of the brand spokesman, Wilford Brimley, in a voice evocative of a bowl of warm oatmeal.
        Mr. Jordan began his advertising career in New York in 1952 as a copywriter at what was then Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, now the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. At BBD&O, he wrote slogans including those for Schaefer, Tareyton and Wisk, and rose to become the agency's creative director and president.
        ''I think most people would say he was tough to work for,'' Allen Rosenshine, chairman and chief executive at BBDO, who was promoted by Mr. Jordan and eventually succeeded him as creative director, said yesterday. ''And he was.''
        Mr. Jordan ''insisted on work that grabbed the consumer by the eyes and ears and didn't let go until the message sunk in,'' Mr. Rosenshine said.
        ''He was absolutely determined to do advertising that would be noticed and remembered.''
        In 1976, Mr. Jordan worked on the election campaign of President Gerald Ford and two years later left BBDO to open his own agency, James Jordan Inc. In 1981, he merged the agency to form Jordan, Case & McGrath, where he served as chairman. Over the years the agency's name changed to reflect the comings and goings of partners; it was best known as Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor.
        ''We have 20 coffee cups'' with different versions of the agency's name, Michael Jordan said yesterday.
        In 1995, Mr. Jordan retired from Jordan, McGrath, now the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of the French agency company Havas. In retirement, he traveled, rooted for the New York Yankees and wrote a musical version of ''The Prince and the Pauper'' called ''King's Crossing.''
        Mr. Jordan was born on Aug. 3, 1930, in Germantown, Pa., and grew up in White Plains; his son, Michael, said he lived in the same house there for 65 years. Mr. Jordan graduated from Amherst College and later served on its board of trustees.
        He married Mary Helen Cronin of White Plains in 1958.
        In addition to his wife and son Michael, of Rye, N.Y., who is a managing partner at a New York advertising agency, Gotham, Mr. Jordan is survived by two other sons, James, known as J. J., also of Rye and also an advertising executive, at his own agency, Branding Iron; Tom, of Haverhill, Mass.; and four daughters, Mary Beth Morris, of Larchmont, N.Y.; Jennifer Conley, of Larchmont; Anne Duffy, of Rye, N.Y.; and Laura Jordan, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Other survivors are a brother, Richard, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and a sister, Judy Hall, of Duxbury, Mass.
      