
        Fuad Rouhani, who as the first secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries brought a cool, technocratic approach to oil price negotiations, died Jan. 30 in London. He was 96.
        He died in the nursing home where he had lived in recent years, a son-in-law, Kamran Diba, said.
        OPEC was formed in 1959, at a time when there was a global oversupply of crude oil, forcing prices downward. Multinational oil companies responded by changing their rules to reduce the producing countries' share of the decreasing overall revenue, angering many of them.
        Some government leaders of the oil-producing countries favored taking an aggressive approach toward the companies, to the point of including political and Islamic religious concerns in their agenda.
        Mr. Rouhani, an urbane international lawyer born in Iran and trained in London and Paris, preferred a more moderate, nonideological approach. His background included working for the British oil company that discovered and produced oil in Iran, the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, which became British Petroleum, or BP. He advised the Iranian government on its nationalization of the company in 1951, and later advised Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi on oil matters.
        When OPEC set up its office in Geneva in 1961, Mr. Rouhani was elected the organization's first secretary general, an administrative post that also involved mediating between conflicting factions. He served for three years, the only Iranian to do so. Currently, Iran is demanding that an Iranian be chosen to fill the current opening.
        Anthony Sampson, in his book ''The Seven Sisters: The Great Oil Companies and the World They Made'' (Viking, 1975), wrote that Mr. Rouhani quickly discovered at the time OPEC was founded that the oil companies were behaving as if it did not exist. He responded by repeatedly visiting their offices to press the countries' viewpoint.
        When the companies insisted on negotiating separately with each country, rather than with OPEC, he turned up at each negotiation, ''wearing a different hat,'' in a phrase quoted by Mr. Sampson.
        ''While the companies insisted that OPEC was a would-be cartel, Rouhani observed that the companies were clearly in cahoots, coordinating their terms with each country,'' Mr. Sampson wrote.
        OPEC's success has long been a matter of debate, with many analysts saying that the marketplace and the willingness of one country, Saudi Arabia, to limit output have been the deciding factors in determining oil prices. The oil embargo of 1973 was initiated just by the Arab producers, not OPEC as a whole.
        But many historians credit the early efforts of OPEC under Mr. Rouhani's leadership with at least helping to halt a drop in oil prices, after adjustment for inflation.
        Perhaps most pertinent to the interests of Iran, Mr. Rouhani's position helped it forestall radical Arab influence within OPEC.
        In 1964, Mr. Rouhani was succeeded by an Iraqi, Abdul Rahman Bazzaz, who encouraged talk of both radical politics and Islamic religion.
        Fuad Roumani was born in Tehran on Oct. 23, 1907, according to a biography prepared by Abba Milani, an Iranian scholar who is now a visiting professor at Stanford University and a research fellow at the Hoover Institution there. Mr. Rouhani completed his early education in Tehran and went to work in the oil industry, then under British control.
        He left work to earn two law degrees from the University of London. A quarter-century later, in the middle of a career in public service, he entered the University of Paris, receiving a doctorate in law in 1968.
        After his initial studies in London, he returned to the oil company, and began to gain a reputation as an intellectual.
        He advised Mohammed Mossadegh, the political leader who won passage of a bill to nationalize the British oil company in 1951. Mr. Rouhani was a friend, too, of Allen W. Dulles, the director of Central Intelligence. The C.I.A. is widely thought to have assisted in Dr. Mossadegh's overthrow two years later.
        He went on to advise the shah, who assumed Mr. Mossadegh's powers, but Mr. Rouhani's son-in-law said Mr. Rouhani was not involved in the 1953 coup.
        From 1965 to 1968, he was secretary general of the Regional Cooperation for Development organization, which worked to foster economic integration among Iran, Pakistan and Turkey.
        Mr. Rouhani, though not religious himself, found time to write ''A Guide to the Contents of the Koran,'' as well as other books on religion. He also translated into Persian works by Plato and Jung, among others.
        He played the tar, a traditional Persian musical instrument, and was an accomplished pianist. Mr. Rouhani was co-founder of the Philharmonic Society of Tehran.
        After the Iranian revolution of 1979, when Mr. Rouhani's house and possessions were confiscated, he moved to Geneva, and later to London.
        He is survived by his wife of 76 years, Rohan; his daughters, Guitty Hosseinpour and Negar Diba, and three grandchildren.
      