
        Albert Axelrod, a champion fencer and one of the few Americans of his era to achieve success in international competition in the sport, died on Feb. 24 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 83.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Eric Rosenberg, president of the Fencers Club, a national organization based in New York.
        Mr. Axelrod, nicknamed Albie, had a straight-ahead, relentlessly attacking style that propelled him to an Olympic bronze medal in 1960. He was a member of five consecutive Olympic fencing teams in the foil and was best in the United States in his weapon in 1955, 1958, 1960 and 1970. He was ranked in the nation's top 10 from 1942 to 1970, except for three years he missed while in the Navy during World War II.
        His international success came at a time when the Soviet Union and its allies were beginning to dominate fencing after a long period of European dominance, but his longevity in a young person's sport was equally impressive. He won his Olympic medal at 39 against opponents little more than half his age. He won his last national championship at 49.
        The New York Times reported then: ''It came down to the last maneuver and Axelrod, once known for his very aggressive attacks, returned to his old tricks and attacked suddenly for the final touch.''
        The foil is the lightest of the three swords used in competitions, but in Mr. Axelrod's bear-trap grip, the weapon was an almost unmovable object when he used it to parry a foe's advance. He multiplied his great strength with an aggressive strategy that became the norm for elite fencers, Mr. Rosenberg said.
        ''You don't go backwards, ever,'' he said in describing Mr. Axelrod's approach. ''He recognized only one direction in fencing, forward.''
        Mr. Axelrod, an electrical engineer who fenced in his spare time, compared his fencing technique to chess and rattled off rules of physics and mathematical formulas to explain it. It seemed to boil down to the no-holds-barred aggression a moviegoer might expect from Zorro or Robin Hood.
        ''I have no purely defensive moves,'' he said in an interview with The Times in 1966. ''In the classical style, the fencers move back and forth from the defensive to the offensive. The moves are based on a heavier weapon than is used today. I have integrated my counterattack into my attack.''
        Albert Axelrod was born on Feb. 21, 1921, in the Bronx, and grew up in the Crotona Park North section. His father, who like his mother was a Jewish immigrant from Russia, worked in the fashion industry in Manhattan. He learned to fence at Stuyvesant High School. He was drawn to the sport because he had a heart murmur, and his mother steered him away from other vigorous sports. He called himself ''the proverbial 98-pound weakling'' and told The Times that another reason he turned to fencing was his ineptitude playing center field for his playground baseball team.
        ''Everyone attributes my skill to the fact that I'm a physical freak, that I have tremendously fast reflexes,'' he said. ''I'm not a natural athlete. When it comes to fencing, I'm completely synthetic. I had to practice arduously and break down into tiny components every move I make.''
        After high school, Mr. Axelrod won titles in amateur events as a member of the Salle Santelli club. After seeing combat in the Pacific with the Navy during World War II, he entered the City College of New York, which had one of the best fencing teams in the nation.
        In 1948, he was the collegiate national champion in foil and led his team to the national college team foil championship.
        He graduated with a major in electrical engineering and joined the Grumman Corporation as an engineer. For most of his life he lived in Ardsley, N.Y., with his wife of 60 years, Henrietta. Several years ago, they moved to a retirement home in Somers, N.Y.
        Mr. Axelrod is also survived by his daughter, Stephanie, of Dover, N.H.; his son, Michael, of Westbrook, Conn., and three grandchildren.
        For many years, Mr. Axelrod drove to Manhattan to practice fencing two or three nights a week, Mr. Rosenberg said. Mr. Axelrod won 15 United States National Gold Medals, a total that includes both team and individual titles. He was the only men's foil fencer in United States history to make the finals of the world championships.
        His Olympic bronze medal was the fourth Olympic fencing medal for the United States and the last until Peter Westbrook won bronze in the saber in 1984. Mr. Rosenberg said there are hopes that the three members of the United States foil team for the 2004 Olympics in Athens might capture a medal, which would be the United States' first since Mr. Westbrook's.
        All three are members of the Fencers Club, and Mr. Axelrod, in his late 70's, fenced against each of them, all less than half his age. Indeed, he continued to fence almost until his death with a ferocity that did not abate even as his ability slipped.
        ''He was a complete and unrepentant addict, and he hated to lose,'' Mr. Rosenberg said.
      