
        Jess, an artist whose idiosyncratic paintings and collages made him a cult figure in American art, died on Jan. 2 at his home in San Francisco, said Odyssia Skouras, his dealer in New York. He was 80.
        Jess, who dropped his last name, Collins, in the late 1940's when he broke from his family, was a reclusive artist whose Symbolist and Surrealist tendencies kept him working outside mainstream styles like Abstract Expressionism in the 1950's and Pop Art in the 60's. Nevertheless, he was revered in San Francisco, where he spent his entire adult life.
        West Coast mavericks like George Herms, Wallace Berman, Bruce Conner and Ed Kienholz found inspiration in Jess's enigmatic narrative pictures and densely layered collages. Beginning in the 1970's, his art found an increasingly broad and enthusiastic audience.
        Born Burgess Collins on Aug. 6, 1923, Jess was raised in Long Beach, Calif., where his father was an engineer and his mother a homemaker. He originally intended to become a scientist, majoring in chemistry at Long Beach Junior College before transferring to the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena.
        He was drafted into the United States Army Corps of Engineers in 1943 and worked as a chemist during the war for the Manhattan Project in Oak Ridge, Tenn. During his free time, he painted, drew and began reading ''Finnegans Wake,'' according to a catalog of his works. But in 1946 he returned to Cal Tech, graduating with honors in chemistry in 1948.
        Jess worked briefly at the Hanford Atomic Energy Project in Richland, Wash., but his doubts about the direction of science led him to change fields. In 1949 he enrolled at the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, where his teachers included Clyfford Still, Hassel Smith, Elmer Bischoff and David Park.
        In 1951 Jess met the poet Robert Duncan, who was his companion until Duncan's death in 1988.
        Beginning in the early 50's, Jess began producing collages, or, as he preferred to call them, paste-ups, which incorporated fragments of magazine photographs, old engravings and illustrations and jigsaw puzzle parts. These works call to mind the collages of Max Ernst and Joseph Cornell but were much larger in scale and complexity. In some cases they measured over six feet in height and width and teemed with images.
        Curiously, one of Jess's best-known series of collages, works made in the 50's in which he scrambled words and images of Dick Tracy comic strips, associated him in the minds of many with Pop Art, a movement that was, in fact, remote from his romantic sensibility.
        Jess's paintings took several directions. He made atmospheric, painterly abstractions and narrative pictures that have symbolically allusive qualities like his collages, but are less bewilderingly detailed.
        For many, the most memorably original of all his efforts was a series of paintings called ''Translations,'' on which he worked from 1959 to 1971. These were cartoonlike pictures made in extremely thick, puttylike paint and copied from oddly miscellaneous images -- photographs from science books, children's book illustrations, a snapshot of the artist as a small child and even a picture of the Beatles from a fan magazine.
        Another series, called ''Salvages,'' consisted of paintings found in thrift stores or old canvases by the artist himself, to which new layers of imagery were added.
        Works by Jess are included in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. In 1993-94, a major retrospective called ''Jess: A Grand Collage'' originated at the Albright- Knox Gallery in Buffalo and traveled to New York, Washington and San Francisco.
        Jess is survived by his brother, James Collins of Colorado Springs, Colo.
      