
        Marc L. Miringoff, a professor who invented an index to better understand the nation's social health, died Thursday night at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 58.
        The cause has not been determined, said his wife, Marque Miringoff.
        Dr. Miringoff, an associate professor of social policy at Fordham University, founded the Fordham Institute for Innovation in Social Policy in 1985. He achieved prominence through the development of a new report card to measure the nation's well-being.
        Dr. Miringoff argued that growth, inflation, interest rates and other standard economic variables were insufficient to adequately capture the state of the social fabric. So he compiled an alternative index, combining data ranging from child poverty and infant mortality to crime, access to health care and alcohol-related traffic deaths.
        In a lecture in 2001, he noted that if progress were to be measured only in terms of gross domestic product, the performance of the stock markets and other narrow economic measures we would be ''missing most of what makes life miserable, interesting or good.'' His new indicator painted a novel picture of the nation's prosperity, confirming that economic growth and social progress did not always go hand in hand.
        Dr. Miringoff's social index plummeted to a low of 38 out of 100 in 1993, from a high of 77 of 100 in 1973, notwithstanding 20 years of per capita income growth. Since then, the nation has recorded progress, according to Dr. Miringoff's index, which jumped back to 54 in 2000 only to drop back to 46 in 2001.
        ''It used to be that a rising tide lifted all boats, but at a certain point during the 70's, social health and per-capita income split apart,'' Dr. Miringoff said in an interview with The New York Times in 2000. ''And this may be the result of the new economy: the loss of steady, well-paid jobs with benefits for less-skilled blue collar workers.''
        Since the 1980's, other groups have developed alternative indexes of social health using different sets of variables. Dr. Miringoff's social health index was adopted by state officials in Connecticut to measure social problems and formulate policies.
        But Dr. Miringoff remained concerned at what he saw as a lack of social progress. ''We really haven't created much in the way of a comprehensive social policy in America for 30 or 40 years,'' he said in 2001, when he peppered his audience at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism with statistics. He said that 17 percent of American children lived in poverty, and health insurance wages had worsened by 50 percent since 1970.
        ''The social health of the nation was declining even during the so-called prosperity,'' he said.
        Dr. Miringoff was interested in politics as well as academics. Bill Ayres, executive director of the group World Hunger Year and a close friend, said Dr. Miringoff met Al Gore during the 2000 presidential campaign.
        Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Miringoff graduated from the State University of New York at Albany in 1967. He received a master's degree in social works from Rutgers University in 1969 and a Ph.D. in social welfare policy from the University of Chicago in 1976.
        Dr. Miringoff is survived by his wife; a brother, Lee Miringoff, the director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion; and a sister-in-law, Nancy Miringoff.
      