
        Dr. Fred Brown, a virologist who studied foot-and-mouth disease in cattle and later led in the development of early vaccines and methods to test for the disease, died on Feb. 20 in his home in Guildford, England. He was 79.
        The death was confirmed by Dr. Thomas G. Burrage, a colleague of Dr. Brown's from the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, a federal research center off Long Island. He said he did not know the cause.
        In five decades of research into foot-and-mouth disease, Dr. Brown helped to explain the molecular structure of the virus and to use the knowledge to prepare vaccines that protect livestock. The disease, which debilitates animals and is highly infectious, can be contracted by sheep, cattle, pigs, goats and deer, with serious implications for the meat and dairy industries.
        In 2001, foot-and-mouth disease spread through farms in Britain, leading to quarantines, the mass slaughter of animals and agricultural damages amounting to £3 billion, or $4.4 billion in 2001 dollars, according to a government estimate. Dr. Brown's work has been applied to pen-side testing for diagnosis of the disease, for which there is no known cure. The last large-scale outbreak of foot-and-mouth in the United States occurred in the 1920's.
        ''All of Fred Brown's work has been important, but his pen-side tests could potentially revolutionize the detection of the disease,'' said Dr. Daniel Rock, a virologist at the Plum Island center, where Dr. Brown had worked since 1990 while teaching at Yale's School of Public Health.
        Dr. Brown also devised a method to distinguish between vaccinated animals and those that had been previously infected with the disease, a distinction not immediately clear in moving herds of cattle.
        Earlier, he did experiments at the Animal Virus Research Institute's Pirbright laboratory in England, where he was deputy director, and he led the virology division of Wellcome Biotechnology Inc. He then left for the United States Department of Agriculture's labs on Plum Island. He was an adviser to the British government on mad cow disease.
        Dr. Brown graduated with first-class honors in chemistry from Manchester University and earned master's and doctoral degrees there. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1981.
        Dr. Brown is survived by his wife, Audrey, and their two sons. The couple lived in Old Saybrook, Conn., while he worked in the United States.
      