
        Gant Gaither, a busy Broadway producer in the 1950's who later found his niche as an artist, his first calling, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 86.
        His death was announced in New York by the Grace Kelly Foundation, of which he was a founder.
        The foundation awards grants each year to young professionals in the performing arts. Mr. Gaither, a friend of the late Princess Grace of Monaco, a former actress, was a founding trustee in 1982 and remained a trustee and director till his death.
        In his heyday, Mr. Gaither produced five plays -- none too successful -- and stayed in the public eye for years with the scripts, artists and productions he was contemplating.
        He achieved his second-longest run in 1955 at the ANTA Theater with the musical version of ''Seventh Heaven,'' starring Gloria De Haven, Ricardo Montalban and Kurt Kasznar. It derived from a play of 1922, which in turn became a 1927 movie with Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell. The musical closed after 44 performances and became Mr. Gaither's last Broadway production.
        He acquired two scripts that he let get away before they became big hits in other hands, ''The Man With the Golden Arm'' and ''Stalag 17.''
        Mr. Gaither's connection with Princess Grace's family stemmed from his first production, a 1947 revival of ''Craig's Wife'' by her uncle, George Kelly, first produced in 1925. The revival lasted only 77 performances, but his friendship with the Kellys survived. He was among those who escorted Grace Kelly to Monaco for her marriage to Prince Rainier in 1956, and he wrote a biography, ''Princess of Monaco: The Story of Grace Kelly'' (Holt, 1957).
        In Hollywood Mr. Gaither produced a movie, ''My Six Loves'' (1963), directed by Gower Champion and starring Debbie Reynolds, Cliff Robertson and David Janssen.
        But he established himself as an artist and the creator of Zoophisticates, whimsical images that reflected the daily visits he once made to the Central Park Zoo and his childhood love of animals.
        The Zoophisticates are paintings of animals in action, gently mocking the antics of humans. The originals were exhibited internationally and found their way into the private collections of famous people, and the designs were imprinted on signed designer scarves.
        Gant Gaither was born on Aug. 1, 1917, in Hopkinsville, Ky., the son of a surgeon. He attended the University of Mexico and graduated from the University of the South in 1938. He then studied at the Yale University School of Fine Arts.
        Stage-struck, he briefly did publicity for a New Hampshire stock company and managed a Miami Beach theater, built for him by his father and dedicated to new plays.
        He made his debut on Broadway as Pfc. Gant Gaither of Army Special Services, assistant stage manager for ''Winged Victory,'' the all-military musical that ran on Broadway for 212 performances during World War II.
        He left no immediate survivors.
      