
        George E. Pake, a physicist who assembled a team of extraordinary computer researchers while serving as the first director of the Palo Alto Research Center of the Xerox Corporation, died last Thursday at his home in Tucson. He was 79.
        The cause was multiple system failure, said his daughter, Catherine Pake.
        In the late 1960's, Xerox, then the dominant manufacturer of office copiers, was searching for ways to move into new markets when the company's chief scientist, Jacob E. Goldman, proposed an open-ended research laboratory to explore what C. Peter McColough, chief executive at the time, called ''the architecture of information.''
        In 1970, Dr. Goldman recruited his friend and former colleague Dr. Pake, who was then executive vice chancellor, provost and professor of physics at Washington University in St. Louis, to become the laboratory's first director.
        It was Dr. Pake who in turn persuaded the company, based in Stamford, Conn., to establish the laboratory far from corporate headquarters: in Palo Alto, Calif., on the edge of the Stanford campus. It was named the Palo Alto Research Center, or PARC.
        In that job, Dr. Pake began exploring the new field of computer science. He hired Robert Taylor, a research project manager with experience at both the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency. Mr. Taylor brought a remarkable group of researchers to the laboratory, helping PARC recruit them from the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, the Berkeley Computer Corporation, Douglas Engelbart's Augmentation Research Laboratory at the Stanford Research Institute and elsewhere around the country.
        In the decade after the laboratory's founding, its researchers made a series of advances that would ultimately reshape the modern computer industry. PARC scientists and engineers invented a range of computing technologies, including the laser printer, office networking and the graphical user interface. The researchers assembled them into a vision of the office of the future that was successfully commercialized by companies like Apple Computer and Microsoft.
        Much has been made of the question of whether Xerox then ''fumbled the future'' by failing to become a leader in the personal computing industry, though it did capitalize on laser printing technology in particular, which more than justified its investment in PARC.
        Because of Xerox's strong financial position, the laboratory's first half-decade was a halcyon period for it. But as the company encountered growing competition in the copier business, bitter battles developed within PARC over how resources should be allocated to support which research projects.
        ''Pake had to balance all of the resources,'' said Michael Hiltzik, author of ''Dealers of Lightning: Xerox PARC and the Dawn of the Computer Age.'' ''Pake had to deal with the higher-ups'' while ensuring his researchers their freedom.
        Dr. Pake left PARC in 1978, when he became Xerox's vice president for research. He held that job until 1986, then became director of the Institute for Research on Learning in Palo Alto.
        George Pake was born in Jeffersonville, Ohio, and studied mechanical engineering before receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in physics from the Carnegie Institute of Technology. He then attended Harvard University, where he received a Ph.D. in physics in 1948.
        In his first year as a faculty member, at Washington University, he published a seminal article on nuclear magnetic resonance. It became a cornerstone for research that led to what is now a widely used medical tool: modern magnetic resonance imaging, or M.R.I.
        In 1952, at age 28, he became chairman of the Washington University physics department. He moved to Stanford in 1956, where he taught physics for six years before returning to Washington University as provost.
        In 1987, he received the National Medal of Science from President Ronald Reagan. He also served on the President's Science Advisory Committee under both Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
        In addition to his daughter, Catherine, of Portland, Ore., Dr. Pake is survived by his wife, Marjorie Pake of Tucson; three sons, Warren, of Tucson, Stephen, of Los Angeles, and Bruce, of St. Louis; and two grandchildren.
      