
        Marshall Frady, a political diarist of the South in transition and the author of a widely read biography of Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Formerly a resident of New York and Los Angeles, he had just moved to Greenville to join the faculty of Furman University, his alma mater, as a writer in residence and lecturer on political science and nonfiction literature.
        Mr. Frady wrote two biographies currently in print, ''Jesse: The Life and Pilgrimage of Jesse Jackson'' (1996) and ''Martin Luther King Jr.'' (2002). At his death he was working on a brief biography of Fidel Castro.
        The first and most talked about of his seven books was ''Wallace,'' published in 1968, when George Wallace was a third-party candidate for president, and the country was increasingly torn by racial strife and political divisions over the Vietnam War. Mr. Frady, who had met Wallace two years earlier, had originally planned to do a novel about a Southern politician. But after spending months around Wallace and his supporters, he decided to write nonfiction.
        The book drew mixed reactions, with some saying it was too kind. But the Wallace camp considered it a highly distorted portrait (Wallace threatened a libel suit) and objected to Mr. Frady's inclusion of utterances that Wallace had made but would rather not have seen in print. The book jacket featured a drawing of Wallace with a chin cleft that resembled a swastika.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Ben A. Franklin wrote that Mr. Frady had produced a classic of ''high journalism'' and managed, in a dramatic and literary sense, to make Wallace both a hero and a villain. An enlarged update appeared in 1976, and Random House published the final version in 1996.
        Mr. Frady came to public attention as a magazine journalist who was an authentic voice of the South and an eyewitness to its social and political mutations. He wrote analytically about its political figures and racial tensions and about the historic ambiguities underlying current events.
        His work appeared in publications like Newsweek, Harper's, The New York Review of Books and The New Yorker.
        He also wrote ''Billy Graham: A Parable of American Righteousness'' (1979), a biography of the evangelical religious leader for which Mr. Frady drew on his own fundamentalist upbringing.
        Mr. Frady worked in television in the late 1970's; from 1979 to 1986 he was the chief correspondent, writer and host of the ABC News program ''Closeup,'' for which he won two Emmy Awards. He was also a correspondent for ABC's ''Nightline.''
        In the 1990's he contributed to a documentary miniseries about George Wallace for cable television and to a biography of Jesse Jackson for the PBS program ''Frontline.'' The miniseries won three Emmys.
        Marshall Bolton Frady was born in Augusta, Ga., the son of a Southern Baptist minister. He received his undergraduate degree from Furman in 1963.
        In 1966 he went to work for Newsweek magazine. He was in its Atlanta and Los Angeles bureaus. He moved to the Atlanta bureau of The Saturday Evening Post in 1968, and from 1969 to 1971 was a contributing editor of Harper's magazine in Atlanta.
        A dispute with Harper's owners prompted the resignation of Willie Morris as editor in chief in 1971, and Mr. Frady and other writers, led by David Halberstam, resigned in protest.
        He next worked in Atlanta for Life magazine.
        At ABC News he also won awards for documentaries like ''To Save Our Schools'' (1984) and ''The Supreme Court of the United States'' (1985).
        When he returned to print journalism, his articles appeared in The New Yorker.
        Mr. Frady, is survived by his wife, Barbara Gandolfo-Frady; a daughter, Katrina Maestri of Zurich; two sons, Carson Sellers of Denver, N.C., and Shannon Frady of Beijing; two sisters, Nancy Huggins of Winterville, N.C., and Karen Smith of Lexington, S.C.; and two grandchildren.
      