
        Russell F. Weigley, a leading American military historian who had an affinity for chronicling complex wars and strategies, died on March 3 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Emma, said.
        Dr. Weigley (pronounced WY-glee), a retired history professor at Temple University, was known for his ability to weave a tapestry of political and military events, often in richly footnoted chronological order.
        In his book ''A Great Civil War: A Military and Political History, 1861-1865'' (Indiana University Press, 2000), he looked at events from several perspectives, rather than providing a single account.
        His conclusion was that the South lost because it was never able to muster ''a true nationalism.'' He wrote that a ''fatal split in the Confederate psyche'' precluded ''a resolve that would have persevered in the contest after all the romance was gone.''
        His work on the United States military included a history of the Army, a chronicle of American military strategy and policy and a book on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's leadership in the European Theater in World War II.
        In a review of Dr. Weigley's book ''Eisenhower's Lieutenants: The Campaign of France and Germany, 1944-1945'' (Indiana, 1981), Drew Middleton, a correspondent for The New York Times during World War II, supported Dr. Weigley's argument that the American command ''lacked a clear conception of war.''
        Mr. Middleton also applauded Dr. Weigley's attention to detail.
        ''Those campaigns cannot be understood by recourse to historical shorthand,'' Mr. Middleton wrote.
        Another of Dr. Weigley's books, ''The Age of Battles: The Quest for Decisive Warfare from Breitenfeld to Waterloo'' (Indiana, 1991), argued that in the first two centuries of early modern Europe, wars almost never accomplished more than they cost.
        That book won Dr. Weigley a Distinguished Book Award from the Society for Military History in 1992. The Eisenhower book was a finalist for the American Book Award.
        In 2001, he won the Lincoln Prize, awarded for the best book relating to Abraham Lincoln, the Civil War soldier or a related subject, for ''A Great Civil War,'' whose title he got from the Gettysburg Address.
        In addition to being a guest lecturer at many universities, Dr. Weigley taught and lectured at the Marine Corps Command and Staff College, the Army War College, the National War College and the United States Military Academy.
        He wrote or edited 10 books, dozens of articles and scores of reviews and review essays, among many other writings, said Richard Immerman, chairman of Temple's history department.
        Russell Frank Weigley was born on July 2, 1930, in Reading, Pa. He graduated from Albright College and earned a master's degree and doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania. He joined the Temple faculty in 1962 and retired in 1998.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Weigley is survived by his son, Jared, of Manhattan, and his daughter, Catherine, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        His interest in the Civil War began with annual family visits to the Gettysburg battlefield. He described the experience of visiting the battleground in the preface of ''A Great Civil War'':
        ''The battleground of Gettysburg offers the bright face of a vacation destination at warm noontime, but there is a chill in the air nevertheless, and at dawn or dusk the emanations from too much violence, suffering and killing become palpable. I have been surprised by an abrupt November nightfall at the Devil's Den; I know the ghosts.''
      