
        Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson, a composer, conductor and pianist who combined styles from the classics to jazz to create sonatas, concertos and symphonies as well as scores for movies and television, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said Rosita M. Sands, director of the Center for Black Music Research at Columbia College Chicago, where Mr. Perkinson was artistic director of the performance program.
        His career took him from the concert halls of Europe to the jazz combo of the drummer Max Roach, and he did arranging for Marvin Gaye, Harry Belafonte and Melvin Van Peebles, among many others.
        Mr. Perkinson, known as Perk, was a co-founder and musical director of the Symphony of the New World in New York, and was its acting music director during the 1972-73 season.
        At various times he was composer in residence or music director for the Negro Ensemble Company, the Alvin Ailey Dance Company and the Dance Theater of Harlem and for productions of the American Theater Lab, among others. He was guest conductor with many orchestras.
        Mr. Perkinson called composition ''written improvisation.'' Bernard Holland wrote in a review in The New York Times in 1988 that his ''String Quartet No. 1'' ''identified with some precision the compatibilities of French impressionism and jazz.''
        The International Dictionary of Black Composers says he explored ''the extremities of the sound spectrum,'' using odd metrical signatures and other methods, and notes that he placed ''widely spaced accompaniments against closely woven voices à la Stravinsky.''
        Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson was born on June 14, 1932, in Manhattan, and was named for Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, a black British composer and conductor who gained recognition in the 1890's. After graduating from the High School of Music and Art, where he shared the LaGuardia Prize in Music with the soprano Reri Grist, Mr. Perkinson attended New York University.
        He then transferred to the Manhattan School of Music, where he earned bachelor's and master's degrees, studying with Hugh Ross, a prominent choral director, who introduced him to Stravinsky and other musical luminaries. Mr. Perkinson also sang as a baritone soloist in New York churches.
        He taught at Brooklyn College from 1959 to 1962 and was director of the Brooklyn Community Symphony Orchestra, an affiliate of the school's music department. In the summers he studied orchestral conducting at the Mozarteum in Salzburg. In the mid-1960's he played in the Max Roach Quartet and later worked with Mr. Roach as an arranger and conductor.
        His film scores include ''A Warm December,'' a 1973 movie starring and directed by Sidney Poitier. His classical compositions have been recorded by the Chicago Sinfonietta, the flutist Harold Jones and others.
        In a 1973 review in The Times John Rockwell described Mr. Perkinson at the podium, a ''tall, brooding man, he conducts economically and persuasively.''
        Mr. Perkinson is survived by his daughter, Joettè Thompson, of Kansas City, Mo.; his sister, Beverly Perkinson Thomas of Houston; and two grandchildren.
      