
        Grant C. Gentry, an executive who built a reputation for reviving failing supermarket companies, including the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company and Food Fair, died March 4 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif, where he had a winter home. He was 79 and lived in Park Ridge, Ill.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Roger Galassini, a family friend.
        When Mr. Gentry joined A.& P. in 1975 as its president, he was hired to help the company rebound from earnings losses. He turned the company around by closing more than 1,500 stores and opening hundreds of larger, more modern ones. He left A.& P. after two and half years amid a power struggle in which another executive was hired as his superior.
        After a brief stint as a food industry consultant, Mr. Gentry was recruited by Food Fair in 1979 to serve as president and chief executive. At the time, the company was one of the largest retailers to seek bankruptcy protection. With his conservative business practices and attention to detail, Mr. Gentry led the company out of bankruptcy protection after two years. The company was renamed Pantry Pride.
        ''His forte was as an administrator and his ability to take a look at a company, find out why it was sick, maximize its assets, minimize its liabilities and see it through,'' said Mr. Galassini, who worked with Mr. Gentry at A.& P. and Pantry Pride. ''He was incredibly competitive.''
        Mr. Gentry fended off a management takeover attempt at Pantry Pride in 1984 when a group of investors that included Ronald O. Perelman, now the chairman of Revlon, tried to persuade shareholders to remove the company's board and senior management.
        At issue was the company's acquisitive nature in the face of declining earnings. The investors also criticized Mr. Gentry for his salary package, saying his five-year $350,000-a-year contract was ostentatious in light of the company's sagging profits.
        Mr. Perelman purchased Pantry Pride in 1985; Mr. Gentry stayed in the company's management ranks for a time.
        When Mr. Gentry left the company he became a private consultant and joined the boards of several companies.
        Mr. Gentry came from humble beginnings and spent much of his youth in foster homes and orphanages. His mother died when was he was a child and his father, a dentist who was unable to care for his children during the Depression, placed Mr. Gentry and his sister in an orphanage.
        After graduating from high school in Chicago, Mr. Gentry joined the Army and volunteered to serve in a paratroopers' unit. During World War II, he was a part of a 1945 rescue mission at Los Baños prisoner-of-war camp in the Philippines, where he helped to liberate over 2,000 civilian prisoners. He was later wounded in action and was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
        After the war, Mr. Gentry entered DePaul University and earned his law degree in 1950.
        His first foray into the business world was as a tax lawyer at International Harvester, an automobile manufacturing company. He joined the Jewel Companies in 1957 as a corporate lawyer and was executive vice president when he left for A.& P.
        Mr. Gentry is survived by his wife, Doris; two sons, Grant Jr. and Scott; and his sister, Doris Cleland.
      