
        Labe C. Scheinberg, a New York neurologist and educator who helped improve the treatment for multiple sclerosis, died on Feb. 22 at the Lawrence Hospital Center in the Bronx. He was 78.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Dr. David Scheinberg.
        In a long association with the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University, Labe Scheinberg was among the earliest advocates for bringing neurologists, psychologists, physical therapists and other medical staff members together to address the problems of patients with multiple sclerosis, a degenerative nervous disorder.
        In the 1970's, he helped found Einstein's multiple sclerosis center, which became a prototype for similar centers across the nation.
        ''Before Labe Scheinberg, for patients it was 'diagnose and adios,' '' said Dr. Nancy Holland, vice president for clinical programs of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. ''There was very little organized care.''
        Dr. Scheinberg was born in Memphis and served in the Navy before graduating from the University of Tennessee College of Medicine. He later served in the Air Force, as chief of the neuropsychiatry section of the hospital at Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana. After an appointment at Columbia, he joined Einstein in 1956. Over the course of his career there, he was co-chairman of the neurology department and dean of the college. He retired, taking emeritus status, in 1995.
        Dr. Scheinberg received numerous awards, including an appreciation award from the National M.S. Society. He was a member of the American Academy of Neurology and a consulting editor at the New York Academy of Sciences.
        His wife of 46 years, the former Louise Goldman, died in 2000. The couple lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Besides his son, Dr. Scheinberg is survived by three daughters, Amy Jones of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Susan Kristol of McLean, Va.; and Ellen Ranard of Great Falls, Va.
        Correction:  March 10, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on March 1 about Dr. Labe C. Scheinberg, a New York neurologist who helped improve treatment for multiple sclerosis, misstated the location of the hospital where he died. It is Bronxville, not the Bronx.
      