
        Cardinal Franz König, a skilled diplomat who worked to break down barriers between the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Europe years before helping to elect a pope from a Communist country, died Saturday. He was 98.
        Cardinal König, an Austrian, was the Holy See's longest serving cardinal and a tireless bridge-builder between the East and West.
        Pope John Paul II recognized those efforts in a message of condolence, honoring the cardinal for his ''work for peace and reconciliation beyond the borders of his homeland.'' The pope also paid his appreciation for the ''remarkable concern in supporting believers in Eastern Europe during the unfortunate political division of the Continent.''
        Cardinal König was the last surviving cardinal to have been elevated by Pope John XXIII, in 1958. It was a position that gave him the rare opportunity of voting in three conclaves, the secret elections by which popes are chosen.
        It was at the last conclave, in 1978, that he may have made his most important contribution to the church.
        The cardinal, himself seen as a contender for the papacy in 1963 and 1978, was widely credited as having played a crucial role in the nomination of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, who was to become John Paul II, the first non-Italian pope in more than four centuries.
        While Vatican tradition prevents any participant in a conclave from disclosing its internal workings, Cardinal König acknowledged his role in subsequent interviews.
        ''The big question in that year was should there be an Italian or a non-Italian,'' he told the National Catholic Reporter in 2000. ''I was in favor of a non-Italian.''
        But decades earlier, the young Austrian priest was already trying to bring a more worldly perspective to the church.
        His climb up the Vatican hierarchy began with the publication of ''The Old Testament and the Ancient Oriental Religions'' in 1947, while he was still a parish priest. In 1956, he was made archbishop of Vienna, a position he held until his retirement at age 80, in 1985.
        It was in 1960, however, that he turned toward the East.
        When the cardinal of Croatia died, Yugoslavia's Communist government surprisingly allowed Cardinal König to attend the funeral. Before he could arrive at the service, however, a car accident landed him in a hospital, where he found himself gazing at a portrait of Tito, the country's leader.
        It was then that he decided to tend to the Catholic flock in Eastern Europe.
        His success earned him more difficult diplomatic assignments. In 1961, Pope John XXIII gave him the delicate task of visiting Cardinal Jozsef Mindszenty, a staunch anti-Communist who had taken shelter in the United States Embassy in Budapest after the Soviets crushed the 1956 Hungarian uprising.
        He was able to establish contact, and years later, when Cardinal Mindszenty threatened to leave the embassy, it was Cardinal König who persuaded his fellow prelate to stay put and avoid arrest. He subsequently helped secure the Hungarian's safe passage to the West in 1971.
        In many ways, Cardinal König anticipated and was a catalyst for the Vatican's policy of opening up to the Communist nations in the east.
        From the very beginning his interests lay in bridging gaps.
        Born in the Austrian village of Rabenstein in 1905, Cardinal König was the oldest of nine children. He studied at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome and specialized in old Persian languages and religion at its Bible Institute.
        He spoke seven languages, including Russian, English and Latin, and could read ancient Syriac, Persian and Hebrew.
        In the 1930's, he earned degrees in philosophy and theology and was ordained as a priest.
        During the Second Vatican Council of 1962-65, he argued for greater church interaction with the modern world, and pushed for better relations with Jews and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
        He took part in an interreligious conference in Bombay in 1964, and made subsequent trips to Egypt, Syria and Russia as the president of the papal Secretariat for Nonbelievers.
        As far as his travels took him, he was firmly rooted in Austria, where church bells pealed to mark his passing.
        ''He was long a moral authority in our country,'' President Thomas Klestil said Saturday. ''I have lost a fatherly counselor.''
      