
        Richard Salyer, who built the local chapter of Volunteers of America into the largest and perhaps most aggressive nonprofit provider of shelter and treatment to the homeless in New York City, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59.
        The cause was colon cancer, the organization announced.
        Born and raised in Arizona, Mr. Salyer received a B.A. in psychology from the University of Arizona in 1969 and embarked on a lifelong career of nonprofit service. At first he worked with developmentally disabled children and adults. In 1978, he was recruited by Volunteers of America to continue his work. Four years later, he was asked to take over the Greater New York chapter, and once in New York, he soon focused on homelessness, which was on the rise.
        When Mr. Salyer became president of the New York chapter, it had a budget of $3 million a year and only three programs for those who could not put roofs over their heads. But with a crack cocaine epidemic raging and flophouses being zoned out of existence, homelessness was becoming a crisis. He immersed himself in the problem, and was appointed by Mayor Edward I. Koch to serve on the city's first task force on homelessness.
        Through his research and his work, Mr. Salyer came to believe that the basic causes of street homeless were misunderstood.
        ''He was for being a proponent of getting the general public away from thinking the homeless are on the street because they missed one paycheck,'' said Linda McNeil, acting president of Volunteers of America. ''He was one of the first to say there are severe underlying causes of street homelessness, including mental illness, substance abuse and social disaffiliation.''
        Mr. Salyer discouraged the public from giving money to street people because he believed it encouraged destructive habits. Instead, he supported outreach programs that would help street people change their behavior, and he was constantly adding such programs.
        Volunteers of America now has a budget of $90 million, which it uses for 53 programs, most of which serve and shelter 30,000 homeless men, women and children each year; some need only services like drug treatment, and some need shelter for long or short periods.
        Volunteers of America won much support for its programs in part because of fiscal prudence, Ms. McNeil said; spending a low percentage of funds on organizational overhead was a point of particular pride for Mr. Salyer.
        The group was also willing to take hard-core cases that other groups did not have programs to handle.
        Linda I. Gibbs, the city's commissioner of homeless services, said Mr. Salyer ''dedicated himself on the most troubled and the most indeed the most misunderstood of the homeless population.''
        Mr. Salyer was also on the board of the national organization of Volunteers of America.
        Mr. Salyer, who lived in Manhattan, is survived by his wife, Linda Horaist; a stepson, Ryan Furby, of Memphis; and a brother, Larry Salyer, and a sister, Sherry Rodgers, both of Phoenix.
      