
        Sidney Lorraine James, a 40-year veteran journalist at Time Inc., where he was the founding editor of Sports Illustrated in 1954, died last Thursday in Alameda, Calif. He was 97.
        His death was announced by his son Timothy M. James.
        Mr. James joined Time-Life in 1929 as a stringer, reporting from his native St. Louis. Joining the staff full time in 1936, he worked as a writer, editor and national correspondent for both Time and Life in cities from New York to Chicago to Los Angeles.
        Henry Luce himself took an interest in his career. In the 1950's, when the company started what many thought was a financially doubtful proposition, a new magazine devoted to sports, Luce reached out to Mr. James to make it succeed.
        With Mr. James as its first managing editor, the top editing post at that time, Sports Illustrated went on the newsstands, with a cover price of 25 cents, in August 1954. Its first issue, of 144 pages, promised ''The Wonderful World of Sport.''
        Long before its cover carried a swimsuit model, the magazine became an immediate hit for Time-Life, in terms of both prestige and profits. Mr. James became publisher of Sports Illustrated in 1960, a job he held for five years before accepting a wider role in management.
        In the late 1960's he was Time Inc.'s vice president in Washington, representing its publications there through 1969. He sat on the boards of WETA-TV, a public station in Washington, and of PBS, and helped oversee the coverage of the Watergate hearings. He retired in 1974 and moved to Laguna Hills, Calif.
        Mr. James wrote ''Press Pass: A Journalist's Tale'' (Aegean Park Press, 1994), an account of his days as Time-Life bureau chief in Chicago and Los Angeles, his stewardship at Sports Illustrated, and his later years in Washington.
        Mr. James is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Alameda, and Timothy, of Manhattan; a daughter, Sidney Kistin, of Corrales, N.M.; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 26, 2004, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on March 17 about Sidney Lorraine James, founding editor of Sports Illustrated in 1954, misstated the name of the publisher Mr. James joined as a part-time writer in 1929 and referred imprecisely to his title at Sports Illustrated. The publisher was Time Inc., not Time-Life. His title, managing editor, has always been the top editing post, not just when he held it. The obituary also misstated the period in which Sports Illustrated became profitable; it was several years after its founding by Time, not immediately.
      