
        William H. Pickering, a leader of the first successful spaceflight by the United States and its first two decades of planetary exploration, died on Monday at his home in La Cañada Flintridge, Calif. He was 93.
        Dr. Pickering's death, from pneumonia, was announced by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in nearby Pasadena, where he was director from 1954 to 1976 and oversaw the first of the country's robotic missions to the Moon, Venus and Mars in the opening years of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union.
        Like many engineers and scientists, Dr. Pickering stepped into prominence after the Russians shocked the world with the launching of the Sputnik satellite on Oct. 4, 1957. The first American efforts to match the Russian achievement fizzled, but a separate team organized by Dr. Pickering was racing to assemble a small satellite that would be the country's first space success.
        Explorer 1, built at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, was launched on Jan. 31, 1958. It carried a simple Geiger counter for radiation studies provided by Dr. James Van Allen of the University of Iowa, and was hoisted into orbit by a rocket developed by Dr. Wernher von Braun, the former German rocketeer.
        In the early hours of Feb. 1, the three men waited in a Pentagon office for word that the craft had made its first orbit. Then they drove through deserted streets to the National Academy of Sciences for a triumphant news conference. The three -- Dr. Pickering, Dr. Van Allen and Dr. von Braun -- stood and jubilantly raised a model of the rocket high above their heads. The picture became a classic of the early space race. It captured the moment the United States entered the space age and, as his friends have said, Bill Pickering's proudest moment.
        ''Dr. Pickering was one of the titans of our nation's space program,'' Dr. Charles Elachi, the current director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in a statement. ''It was his leadership that took America into space and opened up the Moon and planets to the world.''
        A New Zealand-born electrical engineer, Dr. Pickering was a central figure in the Ranger and Surveyor landings on the Moon -- precursors to the Apollo flights by astronauts -- and the Mariners that flew close by Venus and Mars. In 1965, Mariner 4 was the first to streak by the cratered surface of Mars and return more than 20 pictures of stark desolation.
        The achievement earned Dr. Pickering his second appearance on the cover of Time magazine, which pleased the normally reserved engineer. At the moment of the Mariner's flyby, Time wrote, ''the undulating whine of J.P.L.'s computers seemed to change subtly into a cry of exaltation. Mariner had made it.''
        One of the last missions under his leadership was Mariner 9 in 1971, the first spacecraft to succeed in orbiting and mapping Mars.
        Dr. Pickering retired as the laboratory director in 1976, at 66. But a former associate, Victoria Lairmore, said he remained vigorous and active in teaching and business almost to the day he died. ''He never slowed down,'' she said.
        William Hayward Pickering was born in Wellington, New Zealand, studied engineering at Canterbury University there and immigrated in 1929 to continue studies at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. He earned a doctorate in physics and became a professor of electrical engineering there.
        Dr. Pickering began driving out to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which Caltech operated, for research in telemetry, the technology of receiving data from a distant instrument. Telemetry was indispensable in controlling and obtaining information from far-ranging craft.
        In 1944, Dr. Pickering joined the laboratory, organizing the electronics efforts to support guided missile research and development. At the time, the lab was operated by Caltech for the Army. After Sputnik, it was transferred to the new National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        Not long before retiring as director, Dr. Pickering reminisced about that first spacecraft, Explorer 1.
        ''The event was symbolic of the mixing process between engineering and science, between the world and the research laboratory,'' he said. ''It had mixed rocket technology with the universe, and reduced astronautics to practice at last.''
        In later years, he taught engineering in Saudi Arabia, formed his own research company and started an energy business. He was still chairman at his death.
        Dr.Pickering is survived by his wife, Inez Chapman Pickering, and a daughter, Elizabeth Mezitt. His son, William Balfour Pickering, died two days before his own death.
        Dr. Pickering's honors were many, from grand marshal of the Tournament of Roses Parade in Pasadena to the National Medal of Science. In 1987, on the 30th anniversary of Sputnik, he was inducted into the hall of fame of the Society of Satellite Professionals International. He was given an honorary knighthood by Queen Elizabeth II. The emperor of Japan awarded him the Japan Prize in 1994.
        Although Dr. Pickering became an American citizen in 1941, he maintained close ties with his native land. He was named to the Order of New Zealand, the country's highest honor. On his 90th birthday, at a festive party at the Caltech faculty club, Dr. Pickering enjoyed himself through an evening of Maori dancers from New Zealand.
      