
        Jake Hess, a pioneering Southern gospel singer and four-time Grammy winner who was a major early influence on Elvis Presley, died last Sunday at a hospital in Opelika, Ala., family members told The Associated Press. He was 76.
        He had had a heart attack on Dec. 16.
        Mr. Hess was the string that tied together many of Christian music's most famous quartets and ensembles, and he was an idol and later a colleague of Presley.
        The youngest of 12 children, Mr. Hess joined the John Daniel Quartet when he was 15. He became a star as the lead singer for the Statesmen Quartet, the seminal Southern gospel group, founded in 1948.
        In 1964, he was a founding member of the Imperials, a close-harmony ensemble that helped usher in the age of modern inspirational and contemporary Christian music with 14 No. 1 singles.
        When poor health forced him to leave the Imperials in the late 1960's, he became the host of several gospel television shows in Nashville.
        They had names like ''Heaven's Jubilee'' and ''Old Time Singing Convention,'' but at the time The Nashville Tennessean noted that farmers in middle Tennessee, southern Kentucky and Alabama, where the shows were broadcast, always took time during lunch to watch what they called simply ''The Jake Hess Show.''
        In recent years Mr. Hess was a member of the popular recording, video and touring act known as Bill Gaither's Homecoming Friends.
        Presley, as a shy teenager in Memphis, often attended Statesmen shows by himself and became a frequent participant at All-Night Gospel Singings in the Ellis Auditorium there. At those shows, which were often integrated, the Statesmen wore flashy outfits more akin to those of black acts of the time.
        The author Peter Guralnick says that Presley tried to emulate the big, dramatic voices of Mr. Hess and the 1950's rhythm-and-blues crooner Roy Hamilton.
        Mr. Hess later sang backup on many of Presley's biggest albums, including, with the Imperials, ''From Nashville to Memphis.''
        Mr. Hess was inducted into the Southern Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1997.
        Like many country singers with sometimes wayward lifestyles, Presley was tremendously moved by Christian music.
        Mr. Hess sang at his funeral in 1977, as he had at the funeral of Hank Williams in 1953.
        Mr. Hess's wife, Joyce, died in 2000. He is survived by a daughter, Becky Buck; two sons, Chris and Jake Jr.; a sister, Oma Dee; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      