
        Dr. John Rodgers, a Yale geologist who mapped the patterns of Connecticut bedrock and helped support the theory of continental drift with his ideas about mountain formation, died on March 7 in Hamden, Conn. He was 89
        Dr. Leo Hickey, chairman of the department of geology and geophysics at Yale, reported the death and said that Dr. Rodgers had been in poor health for several years.
        Dr. Rodgers was widely regarded as an expert in the study of what are called ''folded'' mountain ranges like the Appalachians. These formations arose from geologic pressure that forced rock strata to tip over and fold on top of one another. By establishing that the Appalachians were part of an ancient range that also stretched across northwest Africa and parts of western Europe, Dr. Rodgers's research helped buttress the explanations of continental drift that emerged in the 1960's.
        ''His support for the mechanism for continental drift was extremely influential,'' Dr. Hickey said. ''He figured out very early that if these two ranges were the same on either side of the Atlantic Ocean, the range must have been continuous across the ocean.''
        John Rodgers was born in Albany in 1914 and grew up fascinated by maps and atlases. He received a doctorate from Yale in 1944 and, after a stint with the United States Geological Survey, joined the faculty in 1946. He was affiliated with the university for the rest of his career.
        ''You can have the plains,'' he told The Hartford Courant in 1991. ''I collect mountain ranges.''
        A signature achievement was his Bedrock Geologic Map of Connecticut, which he presented to widespread approval at a convention of state geologists in 1985. He coordinated and spearheaded the decades of research that mapped in intricate detail the effects of millenniums of rock and plate movements that shaped the state's geologic structure.
        While colleagues and students nicknamed him ''Mr. Appalachian Mountain Man'' because of his early work in that region, Dr. Rodgers actually played a key role in pushing the discipline to look beyond specific ranges at broader geologic patterns, Dr. Hickey said.
        ''John was a great generalizer,'' he said. ''He had a solid knowledge of the particulars, but he was able to apply that encyclopedic knowledge around the world. He was able to see very clearly the general features that all folded mountain ranges have in common.''
        Dr. Rodgers was editor of The American Journal of Science from 1954 to 1995. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Geological Society of America, among other professional groups.
        He was also a music lover who collaborated in the 1970's with his Yale colleague, Willie Ruff, a jazz musician, on a musical work based on the search by the 17th-century astronomer Johan Kepler for a relationship between planetary motion and musical melodies. The collaboration was called ''The Harmony of the World,'' after Kepler's work of the same name.
      