
        Sherman R. Lewis, a longtime financier who was a vice chairman at Lehman Brothers, died on March 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was leukemia, a Lehman Brothers spokeswoman said.
        During a career that spanned more than 30 years at Lehman, Mr. Lewis rode the financial roller coaster of the last 25 years, through the boom and bust of the junk bond market, the 1987 stock market crash and the Internet boom of the late 1990's. He was a witness to the consolidation of the financial industry that has led to the present day behemoths.
        Mr. Lewis began his investment banking career in 1964. In 1973, he joined the brokerage firm Loeb Rhoades & Company and by 1977 was appointed president and co-chief executive, positions he maintained after Loeb merged with rival Hornblower, Weeks, Noyes & Trask, where he headed the investment banking division. After Shearson Hayden Stone, led by Sanford I. Weill, bought Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower & Company in 1979 for $250 million -- at the time the largest merger in Wall Street history -- Mr. Lewis was named president and vice chairman of the combined firm.
        Mr. Lewis stayed on after Mr. Weill sold Shearson to American Express in 1981 for $930 million. After Shearson bought the investment bank Lehman Brothers for $360 million in 1984, he rose to become co-head of investment banking and vice chairman.
        Lehman went on a buying spree during the 1980's. It expanded in Europe, Asia and the United States, entered new businesses and invested substantially in junk bonds. Then, the market crash in 1987 took its toll and American Express spun it off to its shareholders in 1994.
        Today, Lehman is one of only a few independent investment banks left.
        When it was formed in 1978, Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower & Company was considered a giant -- with annual revenue of $450 million. Last year, Lehman Brothers' revenue reached $8.6 billion.
        Born in Ottawa, Ill., Mr. Lewis graduated from Northwestern University and the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business Administration.
        Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife, Dorothy Downie Lewis; two brothers, Robin and Randal; two sons, Thomas and Michael; two daughters, Catherine and Elizabeth A. Westphal; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 24, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Sherman R. Lewis, a longtime financier who was a vice chairman at Lehman Brothers, misstated the name of a school from which he graduated. It is the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, not Business Administration.
      