
        Philip L. Geyelin, the Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who steered The Washington Post's editorial page against the Vietnam War, died late Friday at his home in Washington. He was 80.
        The cause appeared to be a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Geyelin (pronounced JAY-lin) began his journalism career with The Associated Press after World War II. In 1946 he joined The Wall Street Journal, becoming a veteran foreign correspondent over the next 20 years.
        In the mid-1960's, The Journal sent him to cover Vietnam, and he returned disillusioned about the war, said his wife of 54 years, Sherry. ''He was quite amazed at what he saw,'' Mrs. Geyelin said.
        In 1967 the Washington Post hired him to be deputy editorial page editor under J. Russell Wiggins, whose editorials supported the war.
        The next year, Mr. Geyelin succeeded Mr. Wiggins, and with the support of Katharine Graham, then the publisher of The Post, he began to turn the page against the war.
        ''We agreed that The Post ought to work its way out of the very supportive editorial position it had taken, but that we couldn't be precipitous,'' Mrs. Graham, who died in 2001, recounted in her memoir ''Personal History.''
        ''We had to move away gradually from where we had been,'' she wrote.
        Mr. Geyelin guided The Post's editorial page for 11 years, a period in which the paper gained fame for its coverage of Watergate. He was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing in 1970.
        Mr. Geyelin ''played a crucial role, especially in reshaping The Post's editorial view on the war in Vietnam from one of strong support to one of skepticism and eventual opposition,'' said Fred Hiatt, The Post's current editorial page editor. Mr. Hiatt described Mr. Geyelin as a ''very astute observer of foreign affairs'' and as a ''top-flight editor who brought out the best in those who worked for him.''
        Born in Devon, Pa., on Feb. 27, 1923, Mr. Geyelin attended high school in Philadelphia and graduated from Yale in 1943, after three years of study. He immediately joined the Marines and fought at Iwo Jima in World War II, Mrs. Geyelin said.
        After the war, Mr. Geyelin moved to Washington to work for The Associated Press, but left soon after to join The Wall Street Journal. From 1956 to 1960, he was the newspaper's bureau chief in Paris and London.
        In 1979, The new publisher of the Washington Post, Donald E. Graham, chose Meg Greenfield, who had been among Mr. Geyelin's first hires at The Post, to be his successor. Mr. Graham's decision was made with the backing of Katharine Graham, Mr. Graham's mother, according to a 2002 article in The Columbia Journalism Review. Mr. Geyelin became a foreign affairs columnist for the Post, specializing in Middle Eastern issues.
        Colman McCarthy, a former Post columnist, wrote in an October 2001 article in The Progressive that the paper's editorial page enjoyed a ''courageous stewardship'' under Mr. Geyelin.
        Mr. Geyelin was active with the Gridiron Club, a Washington journalists' organization, and he was also on the board of the College of the Atlantic in Bar Harbor, Maine.
        He was the author of ''Lyndon B. Johnson and the World,'' a book published in 1966, and before his health deteriorated he was working on a book about King Hussein of Jordan, Mrs. Geyelin said.
        Survivors include his wife; two sisters, Cecily Clark of Philadelphia and Eleanor Casey of Stonington, Conn.; two daughters, Mary Sherman-Willis of Washington and Lili Geyelin of San Diego; two sons, Milo, of Glen Ridge, N.J., and Philip Jr., of Washington; and six grandchildren.
      