
        Jerome Lawrence, a playwright and theater director whose plays include the classic courtroom drama ''Inherit the Wind,'' died on Sunday at his home in Malibu, Calif., his niece Deborah Robison said. He was 88.
        With Robert E. Lee, his writing partner of more than 50 years, Mr. Lawrence wrote 39 plays, including ''Auntie Mame,'' ''The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail'' and ''First Monday in October.'' Twelve of their collaborations reached Broadway.
        ''Inherit the Wind,'' a fictionalized telling of the ''monkey trial'' of John T. Scopes, the Tennessee schoolteacher who was arrested for teaching Darwin, ran for three years on Broadway and has been translated into more than 30 languages. The play opened in 1955, 30 years after the trial took place, but its theme of defending independent thought in an oppressive environment struck a chord.
        More than a decade after ''Inherit the Wind'' Mr. Lawrence and his partner again captured the zeitgeist, this time during the Vietnam era, with their play about Thoreau's act of civil disobedience in refusing to pay taxes to support a war against Mexico. The play had its premiere at Ohio State University in 1970 and had at least 75 productions across the country that year. The authors deliberately avoided Broadway; the play was produced in many regional theaters and on college campuses, thanks to American Playwrights Theater, a network that Lee and Mr. Lawrence helped found in 1963.
        Mr. Lawrence was born in Cleveland in 1915, and Lee in Elyria, Ohio, three years later. They met in New York in 1942 while Mr. Lawrence was a writer for CBS radio and Lee was working for the Young & Rubicam advertising agency. They began their first collaboration, a radio play called ''Inside a Kid's Head,'' over lunch in Manhattan.
        They entered the Army in 1942 and were among the founding group of the Armed Forces Radio Service. They got out of the Army in 1945 and began writing for radio; after their first taste of Broadway, a musical called ''Look, Ma, I'm Dancin'!'' in 1948, they devoted themselves to the theater. ''Inherit the Wind'' was first performed in Dallas in January 1955 and reached Broadway in April of that year amid extensive press coverage and public debate.
        In 1956 they wrote ''Auntie Mame,'' based on the novel by Patrick Dennis. Ten years later they adapted that play into the musical ''Mame,'' with music and lyrics by Jerry Herman. It ran for more than 1,500 performances.
        The two men continued to work together closely until Lee's death in 1994. Their last collaboration, seen at the Missouri Repertory in Kansas City in the spring of that year, was ''Whisper in the Mind,'' about an imaginary meeting between Benjamin Franklin and the 18th-century hypnotist Frank Anton Mesmer.
        In addition to Ms. Robison, of Berkeley, Calif., Mr. Lawrence is survived by his companion, Will Willoughby, of Malibu; his niece Paula Robison, of Boston; and a nephew, Joshua Robison, of San Francisco.
      