
        Irving Crespi, a public opinion pollster, professor and market researcher long associated with The Gallup Organization and the author of books on polling, public opinion and democracy, died on Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 77.
        He had had several minor strokes since 1997, his wife, Joan, said.
        In ''Pre-election Polling: Sources of Accuracy and Error'' (Russell Sage, 1988) Dr. Crespi assessed the factors that increase or decrease the predictive power of polls before elections. In the process he codified methods that had mainly been an oral tradition of pollsters' lore.
        Dr. Crespi joined Gallup as vice president in 1958 and was executive vice president from 1970 to 1976. He held subsequent research positions at Mathematica Policy Research, the Roper Organization, the Total Research Corporation, and Irving Crespi & Associates and also taught at Baruch College.
        He served as president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research in 1976-77 and received its award for distinguished achievement in 1997. Dr. Herbert Abelson, another past president, called Dr. Crespi ''a very scholarly person working in a commercial setting'' who ''helped bridge the gap between academic and commercial researchers and brought the field closer to a genuine profession.''
        Dr. Crespi also served as president of the World Association for Public Opinion Research.
        Dr. Crespi was born in Brooklyn on May 8, 1926, and graduated from the City College of New York before earning a master's degree from the State University of Iowa and a Ph.D. from The New School for Social Research. He served in an Air Force intelligence unit in the Korean War, then taught sociology at New York colleges before joining Gallup.
        Dr. Crespi was a polling consultant for The New York Times in 1982 and 1983.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Judith Lofton of Skippack, Pa.; a son, Robert J., of New York City; and three grandchildren.
      