
        Arthur Lithgow, a producer and director who was a pioneer in American regional theater, specializing in Shakespeare, died on Tuesday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 88.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, the actor John Lithgow.
        Mr. Lithgow (pronounced LITH-go) first appeared onstage in December 1920 at age 5 as a cherub in a Christmas pageant at the Unitarian Church in Melrose, Mass. He made his New York City debut in November 1938, as a soldier in Jacques Deval's anti-Nazi drama, ''Lorelei.''
        But his long-lasting theatrical achievements came through his work in regional theater around the country, in creating new theater programs or taking charge of older ones.
        He established the Antioch Shakespeare Festival, eventually known as Shakespeare Under the Stars, at his alma mater, Antioch College, in Yellow Springs, Ohio, in 1952; he was artistic director until 1957. By the early 1960's it had moved and had grown into the Great Lakes Shakespeare Festival in Lakewood, Ohio. He was the artistic director of the McCarter Theater in Princeton, where he staged classic and original plays, from 1963 to 1971.
        He later worked at the Brattleboro Center for the Performing Arts in Vermont, at the University of South Florida at Tampa, and in Ithaca, N.Y., where he was co-founder of the Ithaca Theater Guild.
        At Antioch, Mr. Lithgow eventually put on productions of every play in the canon, sometimes running as many as seven in a season. Directing and acting in many of these productions, he played Petruchio in ''The Taming of the Shrew'' opposite Nancy Marchand's Kate, and also played Stephano, Peter Quince, Dr. Caius and Henry IV. The festival drew the praise of major reviewers of the day.
        Arthur Washington Lithgow III was born on Sept. 9, 1915, in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic, the third child of Arthur Washington Lithgow II, an entrepreneur, and Ina Berenice Robinson Lithgow, a nurse. He graduated from public school in Melrose. At Antioch, Mr. Lithgow acted in student productions and received his B.A. in 1938. He took an M.A. in playwriting at Cornell in 1948.
        In 1939, he married Sarah Jane Price, an actress whom he had met at Antioch. She survives him, as do their four children, John and Robin, both of Los Angeles, David, of New York, and Sarah Jane Bokaer of Ithaca; two sisters, Marion James of Melrose and Jeannette Peverly of Milton, Mass.; and 13 grandchildren.
      