
        Paul Hopkins, who became a celebrity of sorts in his final years for having given up Babe Ruth's record-tying 59th home run in 1927 while making his pitching debut for the Washington Senators, died last Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. Hopkins, who lived in Deep River, Conn., was 99 and the oldest living major leaguer.
        His death was reported by his son, Peter.
        On Sept. 29, 1927, Hopkins, less than four months out of Colgate University and four days past his 23rd birthday, was summoned from the left-field bullpen at Yankee Stadium. The Yankees had the bases loaded in the fifth inning and Ruth was at the plate, closing in on his single-season record of 59 home runs, set in 1921. Ruth had hit his 58th homer of the season in the first inning.
        ''I had no idea who the next hitter was until I got to the mound and saw Ruth,'' Hopkins once recalled. ''I was up in the sky as I walked in from the bullpen because it was my first game.''
        Hopkins, who remembered being ''a little nervous,'' went to three balls and two strikes, then threw the last of a succession of slow curves.
        ''At first Babe seemed fooled by it,'' Hopkins remembered. ''He started to swing but then held up the swing. But then he swung again, not a full swing but a good one, and sent a high fly ball to right that landed about three or four rows back in the stands.''
        John Drebinger wrote in The New York Times that the ball had landed halfway up in the bleachers, ''and though there were scarcely 7,500 eyewitnesses present, the roar they sent up could hardly have been drowned out had the spacious stands been packed to capacity.''
        Hopkins remembered long afterward that when the inning was over, ''I suddenly felt very upset and tears began to roll down my face.''
        The next day, Ruth hit home run No. 60 off the Senators' Tom Zachary, setting a record that stood until the Yankees' Roger Maris hit 61 homers in 1961.
        Hopkins pitched only 10 more games in the major leagues, for the Senators and the St. Louis Browns. He was later an executive for Shawmut Bank in Connecticut.
        In addition to Peter Hopkins, of Westbrook, Conn., he is survived by three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. His wife, Jean, died in 1998.
        In the final decade of his life, Hopkins helped dedicate a statue of Ruth, a native of Baltimore, outside the Orioles' Camden Yards, threw out the first pitch at Yankee Stadium when a stamp honoring Ruth was unveiled, was interviewed by David Letterman, appeared in an ESPN documentary on Ruth and received many autograph requests.
        Last September, Hopkins celebrated his 99th birthday with students at Old Saybrook Middle School. He told them, The Hartford Courant reported, how ''I did something wrong and it turned out to make me famous.''
      