
        Dr. Bela Julesz, a neuroscientist whose wide-ranging work explored the way the human brain perceives depth, texture and shape, crossing the disciplines of neural science and psychology, died on Dec. 31, according to Rutgers University, where Dr. Julesz founded and directed the Laboratory of Vision Research. He was 75.
        The cause has not been determined, according to Rutgers.
        In an unconventional career, Dr. Julesz studied the process the brain uses to collect and filter visual cues that are used to determine depth in vision.
        In 1960, using early computers, he developed a test called the random-dot stereogram, which presents two separate images of seemingly unrelated patterns that the brain is able to combine into an intelligible whole. He concluded that the brain first perceives three-dimensional depth, then motion and finally the form of an object.
        Dr. Julesz (pronounced YOU-lesh) published his results in 1971 in ''Foundations of Cyclopean Perception,'' a book that received academic acclaim and attention from the artist Salvador Dalí, who was inspired by his stereograms. The Homeric metaphor of Cyclops was intended to suggest the internal blending of images by the brain. Before his death, Dr. Julesz was at work writing a new prologue for the book, which had been scheduled to be reissued.
        ''Bela Julesz's work really revolutionized the field, because the random-dot stereogram became a purer test for the study of stereoscopic vision,'' said Dr. Robert H. Wurtz, chief of the visual-motor integration section of the National Eye Institute in Bethesda, Md. ''He was the first among us to establish the study of depth perception on a quantitative, scientific basis.''
        Dr. Julesz was born in Budapest on Feb. 19, 1928, and did engineering research on microwave systems and television signals before receiving a doctorate from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1956. In the same year, during the Soviet occupation, Dr. Julesz and his wife, Margit, fled to the United States.
        He initially studied the brain's analysis of pictorial information at AT&T Bell Laboratories in New Jersey before publishing his landmark book, eventually retiring from Bell Labs, now Lucent Technologies, in 1989 to found the Laboratory of Vision Research at Rutgers.
        In later writings, he scrutinized advances in vision research and his own contribution to the field, publishing ''Dialogues on Perception'' in 1995.
        Dr. Michael E. Goldberg, director of the David Mahoney Center for Brain and Behavior Research at Columbia University, said that Dr. Julesz's 1971 work and the stereogram remained remarkable for their relevance, decades after development.
        ''In science, it is very rare for people to be reading a text 40 years after the fact. You think of 'The Origin of Species' and very few other works,'' he said.
        In recognition of his work, Dr. Julesz was given a MacArthur Foundation grant in 1983, and was later elected to the National Academy of Sciences. He received the Karl Spencer Lashley Award from the American Philosophical Society and was a fellow of the Society of Experimental Psychologists.
        At Rutgers, he was a State of New Jersey professor, an honor afforded select faculty members, in the department of psychology.
        As a researcher or visiting professor, Dr. Julesz was also affiliated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Western Australia, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, the California Institute of Technology and the University of California at Berkeley.
        He is survived by Margit Julesz, his wife of 50 years. They lived in Warren, N.J.
      