
        Dr. Zhong Wei Chen, a leader in the field of microsurgery who was among the first doctors to perform a successful operation to reattach a severed hand, died Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 74.
        His death occurred when he fell from the balcony of his seventh-floor apartment. His daughter, Dr. Lilly Chen of Manhattan, said he had locked himself out of the apartment and had been trying to enter through a window.
        The Shanghai Daily reported that the local police considered the death accidental.
        Dr. Chen, a part-time resident of Manhattan, helped start the era of microsurgery when, in January 1963, he operated on a Chinese factory worker whose right hand had been severed an inch above the wrist. The operation was the first case of extremity replantation reported in medical literature.
        He developed many other microsurgical procedures at the Sixth People's Hospital in Shanghai, including techniques for reattaching amputated fingers and thumbs, preserving severed extremities, reconstructing muscles and repairing nerves and blood vessels. He published 125 articles, including 33 in English, and lectured at New York University Medical Center and at 40 other universities around the world.
        He was honored as the ''father of replantation'' at the 1978 International Hand Surgery Conference in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Chen was the chairman of the department of surgery at Zhong Shan Hospital in Shanghai. He was also a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and a founding member of the International Society for Reconstructive Microsurgery. He was named the outstanding scientist of 2003 by the Journal of Long-Term Effects of Medical Implants.
        Zhong Wei Chen was born in Ning Pou, China, and was trained as an orthopedist at Shanghai Medical University. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Dr. Hui Zhu Yin; his son, Li Jian Chen; and three grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      