
        Richard Perez, a South Bronx teacher who became a well-known advocate for human rights and social justice for Hispanics and other minorities, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 59.
        Mr. Perez died of prostate cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said his wife, Martha Laureano-Perez.
        Mr. Perez, widely known as Richie, became a community activist in 1969 when he joined the Young Lords, a Puerto Rican rights group. The group furthered its cause through radical, nonviolent means, like commandeering a city medical vehicle to perform tuberculosis tests in poor neighborhoods, taking over an East Harlem church to create a day care center and taking over part of a South Bronx hospital to set up a drug rehabilitation program and call for local health care improvement.
        As director of community development at the Community Service Society, a nonprofit group that serves the poor, during the 1980's until his death, Mr. Perez organized campaigns against racially motivated violence and pushed for voter registration. He often spoke publicly about the marginalization of minorities.
        Mr. Perez also organized demonstrations calling for prosecutions in police brutality cases, including the case of Anthony Baez, a Bronx man who died after being put in a choke hold by a city police officer in 1994. Mr. Perez helped found People's Justice 2000, a coalition of groups that demonstrated for the prosecution of officers after the precinct assault on Abner Louima and the shooting death of Amadou Diallo.
        Mr. Perez was an outspoken critic of racial profiling by the New York City Police Department and was a lead plaintiff in a 1999 lawsuit against the city aimed at abolishing stop-and-frisk searches by the department's Street Crime Unit.
        Mr. Perez was born and raised in the South Bronx and attended public schools and the City University of New York in Harlem.
        While teaching at James Monroe High School in the Bronx in the late 1960's, he began calling for community control of schools, and in 1969 joined the Young Lords, becoming its deputy minister of information and also editing its weekly newspaper, Palante. In the early 1980's, Mr. Perez helped found the National Congress for Puerto Rican Rights and became its national coordinator.
        In addition to his wife, Ms. Laureano-Perez, Mr. Perez is survived by his son, Danny Laureano, 25, and his mother, Ann Perez.
      