
        Alistair Cooke, the urbane and erudite British-born journalist who became a peerless observer of the American scene for more than 70 years, died at his home in Manhattan, the BBC said yesterday. He was 95.
        A BBC spokesman said Mr. Cooke's daughter, Susan Cooke Kittredge, had contacted Mr. Cooke's biographer, a BBC reporter, Nick Clarke, to inform him of her father's death at midnight.
        Mr. Cooke was widely known to American television audiences as the host of the pioneer cultural program ''Omnibus'' in the 1950's and later as the imperturbable and honey-voiced host of the long-running ''Masterpiece Theater'' on public television.
        But his journalistic career went well beyond the television screen. A veteran foreign correspondent and a successful and prolific author, he was celebrated for his ''Letter From America,'' which the BBC broadcast weekly to more than 50 countries.
        Begun in 1946, the series of 13-minute essays continued, with only an occasional break, for 58 years. This year, with Mr. Cooke in failing health, his doctors advised him to retire. His last letter, No. 2,869, an observation on the issues shaping the American presidential campaign, was broadcast on Feb. 20.
        Mr. Cooke wrote his intentions for the program in a memo to the BBC in February 1946. ''It will be a weekly personal letter to a Briton by a fireside, I shall try to give a running commentary on topical aspects of American life, some of the intimate background to Washington policy, some profiles of important Americans. The stress will tend always to be on the springs of American life, whose bubbles are the headlines, rather than on the headlines themselves.''
        The BBC liked the idea, and the first program went out on the network's Home Service on March 24 of that year. Writing in The Sunday Times of London on the 50th anniversary of that first broadcast, Paul Donovan said: ''Amazingly, almost nothing about the program has changed in half a century; it still goes out on a Sunday, is still between 13 and 14 minutes long, is still composed on a manual typewriter and is still free, uniquely, from BBC editorial control.''
        Insight and Wit
        Mr. Cooke's weekly radio talks gained him a reputation as one of the most effective interpreters of the American way of life to the world. His observations were not only insightful but also gracefully written and often gently witty. Here he is on the defeat of the great middleweight boxer Sugar Ray Robinson at Madison Square Garden in 1962:
        ''When it was over, Sugar Ray flexed his calves for the last time and did a little hobbling dance over to embrace the victor, who was pink and sweaty and very happy, identifiable on the score card as Denny Moyer of Portland, Ore., but on closer inspection was that bearded figure with a scythe Sugar Ray had dreaded to meet.''
        Mr. Cooke first gained a large American audience as the elegant host of ''Omnibus,'' the legendary magazine of the arts that appeared on all three major commercial networks over its lifetime, from 1952 to 1961. His long association with the public-television series ''Masterpiece Theater'' began in 1971. He was proud that he personally wrote the succinct and often highly informative introductions to those British-made television dramas.
        John J. O'Connor, the chief television critic of The New York Times, once observed, ''The truly remarkable phenomenon for 'Masterpiece Theater' fans is how the memory of each of these productions is so firmly stamped with the personality of a single person: the soft-spoken fellow sitting with a book in his lap, looking up just long enough to tell us what it's all about.''
        Mr. O'Connor, noting Mr. Cooke's urbanity and grace and his unique place in upscale television programming, summed up his career:
        ''Mr. Cooke became a distinctive television fixture, as immediately recognizable as Lucy Ricardo or Archie Bunker. The 'Masterpiece Theater' routine, with its armchair and, at midpoint, Mr. Cooke's swivel to a second studio camera, evolved into the irresistible stuff of parody. The sophisticated Mr. Cooke found himself fodder for 'Saturday Night Live.' Jackie Gleason turned him into Aristotle Cookie. 'Sesame Street' weighed in with Alistair Cookie (Monster). Harvey Korman came up with Alistair Quince, 'once more tippy-toeing into your living room.' ''
        Mr. Cooke not only interpreted America to the world, but he also interpreted it to Americans. He supervised, helped write and then narrated ''America,'' a 13-hour survey of American history that was presented on NBC. The series then became the basis for his best-selling book, ''America: A Personal History of the United States.''
        Provincial to Sophisticate
        It was a tribute to Mr. Cooke's admiration for his adopted country that Congress chose him to give the keynote speech for its Bicentennial celebration in 1976.
        For more than 50 years Mr. Cooke and his wife, the artist Jane White, divided their time between an apartment on Fifth Avenue, a summer home on the North Fork of Long Island and trips to London and San Francisco. An earlier marriage to Ruth Emerson ended in divorce.
        Besides Ms. White, Mr. Cooke is survived by a son from his first marriage, John, in Wyoming; a daughter from his second marriage, Ms. Kittredge, of Vermont; a stepson, Stephen Hawkes, of California; a stepdaughter, Frances, Lady Rumbold, of London; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Alistair Cooke was born Alfred Cooke in Salford, a suburb of Manchester, England, on Nov. 20, 1908. He legally added Alistair to his name as a college student, saying it had always been his nickname. His father was a metal craftsman and Methodist lay preacher who founded a mission in the Manchester slums. His mother came from an Irish family long settled in northern England.
        The family moved to Blackpool, and it was there that Mr. Cooke's lifelong fascination with America and Americans began. A group of American soldiers was billeted in the Cooke home during World War I, and they were, he later recalled, ''inordinately kind and outgoing and quite devoid of the joylessness that, in my view, afflicted my own countrymen.''
        He attended Blackpool Grammar School and won a scholarship to Cambridge University that was awarded to future teachers. At Jesus College, Cambridge, Mr. Cooke edited a literary magazine, put on plays and acted in them as a co-founder of the Cambridge Mummers, and pursued a rigorous social life. He was awarded a bachelor's degree summa cum laude in 1930 and an education diploma in 1931. It was at Cambridge that Alfred Cooke, with his pronounced accent of the north country and vague plans for a teacher's life, quietly disappeared. In his place appeared Alistair Cooke, campus dynamo and newly minted sophisticate, with the inflections of Mayfair and his eye on the main chance.
        While still at Cambridge he began writing stage criticism and articles for Theater Arts Monthly, an American magazine. He was soon granted a Commonwealth Fund fellowship to study theater in the United States. He spent the 1932-33 academic year at the Yale School of Drama ''whipping down to New York to see all the plays and meeting literary types like Thornton Wilder and John Mason Brown.'' He also haunted the jazz clubs along 52nd Street in Manhattan where, as a talented pianist, he was occasionally allowed to sit in on jam sessions. He later recorded a jazz album for Columbia Records.
        Mr. Cooke traveled extensively during his first summer in the United States. ''That trip was an absolute eye-opener for me,'' he said. ''Even then, even in the Depression, there was a tremendous energy and vitality to America. The landscape and the people were far more gripping and dramatic than anything I had ever seen. It truly changed me. You see, from then on my interest in the theater began to wane, and I began to take up what I felt was the real drama going on -- namely, America itself.''
        The next year he was at Harvard, where a course in the history of the English language in America led him to H. L. Mencken, then winding up his career as the reigning American wit but still a respected authority on the American language. They corresponded, became friends and eventually colleagues.
        It was that early exposure to Mencken, Mr. Cooke said, that eventually led him to newspaper work. He liked to quote Mencken's pungent observation that being a newspaper reporter was a chance to ''lay in all the worldly wisdom of a police lieutenant, a bartender, a shyster lawyer and a midwife.''
        Under the terms of his Commonwealth Fund fellowship, Mr. Cooke was required to return to Britain for a time . In 1934, while still a graduate student in America, he read that the BBC had fired its film critic, Oliver Baldwin, the son of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin. He raced back to London and got the job.
        While reviewing films for the BBC, he took on an additional job with NBC, broadcasting a weekly ''London Letter'' back to the United States. He covered among other stories the abdication of Edward VIII and the Munich Pact. The program was a precursor to the ''Letter From America'' that he would begin a decade later and continue until just before his death. He even found time to write a critical biography, ''Douglas Fairbanks: The Making of a Screen Character,'' which was published in 1937 by the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        In 1937 after three years back in London, he returned to the United States for good, becoming a citizen in 1941. He settled in New York, where he continued to broadcast for the BBC and write freelance articles for various English newspapers and magazines. In 1945 The Manchester Guardian (now The Guardian) asked him to cover the founding of the United Nations in San Francisco.
        In 1947 he became The Guardian's chief correspondent in the United States. He earned $500 a year and was told not to cable if a letter would serve. He stayed with the paper for another 26 years. One of his first Guardian assignments was reporting on the espionage investigation of the former State Department official Alger Hiss and the subsequent perjury trials that led to Mr. Hiss's conviction and imprisonment. Mr. Cooke turned his reporting into a best-selling book, ''A Generation on Trial: U.S.A. vs. Alger Hiss'' (Knopf 1950). The New Yorker's reviewer, Richard Rovere, called it ''one of the most vivid and literate descriptions of an American political event that has ever been written.''
        Quite an Experiment
        ''Letter From America'' began in 1946 as a 13-week experiment. ''With the recent ending of Lend-Lease, England was broke,'' Mr. Cooke remembered in 1999. ''But they extended the program for another 13 weeks and then 13 weeks again. I didn't think it would last 5 years, let alone 53.''
        In the introduction to his book ''America,'' Mr. Cooke gave some idea of the range of his essays. ''I covered everything from the public lives of six presidents to the private life of a burlesque stripper; from the black market in beef to the Black Panthers, from the Marshall Plan to Planned Parenthood.''
        He might have added Monica Lewinsky, whose relationship with Bill Clinton he explored at length. Alluding to the president, he wrote: ''Moral authority, as old man Aristotle pointed out 2,000 years ago, resides in a leader because he's a better than average character. Moral authority does not mean sexual behavior; it means the capacity for being trusted, to have the people believe the word of the leader in many things and be ready to follow him when he judges what is the right thing to do.''
        Among his many friends, Mr. Cooke counted Charles Chaplin; Duke Ellington, Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall, and newsmen as disparate as James Reston, Murray Kempton and Westbrook Pegler. One of his best-selling books, ''Six Men,'' was a collection of lengthy profiles of Chaplin, Bogart, Adlai E. Stevenson, Mencken, Edward VIII and Bertrand Russell. Over the years Mr. Cooke published more than a dozen books, many of them collections of his ''Letters.''
        In an interview with The New York Times earlier this month, Mr. Cooke reminisced about his long career, especially ''Letter From America,'' and the discipline he imposed on it.
        ''I would pick my topic on Monday and spend the day researching it,'' he said. ''On Tuesday I'd type two or two and a half pages, all my arthritis would allow me. I'd type the rest, another three pages, on Wednesday, 1,700 words total -- 13 minutes 30 seconds air time.
        ''Then I'd beat the hell out of it, getting rid of all the adverbs, all the adjectives, all the hackneyed words. Do you know what Mark Twain said about the perfect word? The difference between a perfect word and a near-perfect word is like the difference between lightning and a lightning bug.''
      