
        John Sack, a pioneer of New Journalism who was best known for his reporting from the battlefields of Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Yugoslavia and Afghanistan, died Saturday in San Francisco. He was 74.
        The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to an announcement from Esquire magazine, to which Mr. Sack contributed for 45 years.
        While he employed new journalism's literary techniques, he was credited by critics with sticking to the facts. In ''M'' (New American Library, 1967), Mr. Sack followed an infantry company from its training at Fort Dix to battle action in Vietnam. Praised for its mix of compassion and objectivity, the book grew out of an Esquire cover article, ''Oh My God! We Hit a Little Girl,'' which remains the longest article to appear in the magazine.
        Some of his other books proved more controversial. While writing ''Lieutenant Calley: His Own Story'' (Viking, 1971), an account of how William H. Calley Jr. came to be convicted for massacring Vietnamese civilians in My Lai, Mr. Sack was indicted on federal charges involving his refusal to give evidence, but prosecutors dropped the case. For ''An Eye for an Eye'' (Basic, 1993), a report on what Mr. Sack described as the persecution of Germans by Polish Communist Jews in post-World-War II internment camps, he was accused by critics of rushing into print prematurely in time for a report on the subject by the television program ''60 Minutes.''
        Mr. Sack told his own story in ''Fingerprint'' (Random House, 1983), a ''Tristram Shandy''-like autobiography filled with digressions. He was born in New York City on March 24, 1930, the son of John Jacob Sack, an accountant for the Davega sporting goods chain, and Tracey Rose Levy Sack.
        A sister, Lois Edelstein, of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., survives him.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1951, he joined the Army and was a combat correspondent in Korea for Pacific Stars and Stripes. After his discharge he became a writer, producer and correspondent for CBS News.
        In 1966 he left CBS to become Esquire's war correspondent in Vietnam. At various times in his life, he was also an editor for Playboy magazine, a producer for KCBS-TV in Los Angeles and a writer for the television show ''That's Incredible.''
      