
        Frank A. Sieverts, a specialist in refugee and relief issues at the State Department for 25 years and later as an executive in the Washington office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, died here last Wednesday. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue Hubbell.
        Mr. Sieverts, who lived in Washington, was assistant to Christophe Girod, the head of the Washington Red Cross office. He had worked for the Red Cross since 1995.
        At the State Department from 1962 to 1987, Mr. Sieverts held several positions that reflected his commitment to people caught up in forces beyond their control, an experience he himself endured as a child of Jewish refugees who fled Nazi Germany in 1938.
        As special assistant for prisoner-of-war matters during the Vietnam War, Mr. Sieverts served as a State Department liaison with relatives of missing American servicemen. After the war, he pressed the Hanoi government to aid in the search for missing Americans. As the department's director for refugee reception and replacement, Mr. Sieverts worked with private agencies to relocate refugees who had fled the upheavals in Southeast Asia.
        Mr. Sieverts also served for a time as minister-counselor for humanitarian affairs. His final position in the State Department was special assistant for public affairs at the Bureau for Refugee Programs.
        Frank Arne Sieverts was born in Frankfurt and grew up in the Milwaukee area, where his parents, Helmut and Cecelie Sieverts, settled after their flight from Germany. He studied international relations at Swarthmore, graduating in 1955, then pursued economics and politics at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
        At Swarthmore, Mr. Sieverts shared a room with Michael S. Dukakis, who became governor of Massachusetts and was the 1988 Democratic nominee for president. At Oxford, he roomed with Paul S. Sarbanes, now a Democratic senator from Maryland.
        Before entering the State Department, Mr. Sieverts was a reporter for Time magazine in London and Washington and a legislative assistant to Senator William Proxmire, Democrat of Wisconsin. From 1987 to 1994, he was the spokesman for the Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
        His first marriage, to Jane Woodbridge, ended in divorce.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two children from his first marriage, Michael Sieverts of Arlington, Va., and Lisa Sieverts of Nelson, N.H.; a stepson, Brian Hubbell of Cherryfield, Me.; two brothers, Steven Sieverts of London and J. Michael Sieverts of Santa Monica, Calif.; two sisters, Kati Hanna of Ithaca, N.Y., and Laurie Snyder of Baltimore, and three grandchildren.
      