
        Cresson Kearny, an inventor and specialist in jungle warfare who wrote a best-selling manual on surviving a nuclear attack, died on Dec. 18 in Montrose, Colo. He was 89.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said his daughter Stephanie Kearny, who is writing a biography of him.
        His manual, ''Nuclear War Survival Skills,'' is available free on the Internet at www.oism.org/nwss. It includes instructions on how to build and furnish fallout shelters, complete with a do-it-yourself fallout meter, his own invention, which can be made of materials commonly found in the home.
        The manual includes a foreword by Edward Teller, the architect of the hydrogen bomb, as well as an admiring biographical note by Eugene P. Wigner, the Nobel Prize-winning physicist, who writes that in 1964, when he was authorized by the Atomic Energy Commission to set up the Civil Defense Project at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, Mr. Kearny was among the first researchers he hired.
        First published in 1979 by the laboratory, the book had sold more than 600,000 copies by the mid-1990's. Mr. Kearny also allowed it to be republished by anyone without obligation to pay royalties.
        Updated in 1987, the manual offers designs for six basic types of shelter, suitable for environmental conditions in different parts of the United States. Designed to be built in a trench or above ground by untrained people in 48 hours or less, the shelters are made of wood, dirt and other materials found around the house. They have been tested extensively by amateurs at Oak Ridge and around the country and have been improved upon over several decades.
        Cresson Henry Kearny (his last name is pronounced Carney) was born on Jan. 7, 1914, in San Antonio, the elder of two sons of Clinton Hall Kearny, a civil engineer, and Mary Chabot Cresson Kearny. While he was attending Texas Military Institute in San Antonio, his father died and his mother declared bankruptcy. He later went to Mercersburg Academy in Pennsylvania for a year and won a scholarship to Princeton, from which he graduated in 1937 with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering.
        He attended Oxford on a Rhodes scholarship and graduated in 1939 from Queen's College with a degree in geology.
        After Oxford, Mr. Kearny joined a Royal Geographic Society expedition in the Peruvian Andes. He then worked as an exploration geologist for Standard Oil in the Orinoco jungles of Venezuela.
        Persuaded that the United States would soon be at war, he quit his job in 1940, packed his specialized jungle gear and reported for active duty in Texas as a first lieutenant in the Army Reserve. In February 1941 he transferred to Panama, where he helped develop tactics and special equipment for foot soldiers. Later, as a major, he was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services in Southeast China.
        In 1943, he married May Willacy Eskridge of San Antonio. They had five children: a son, Cresson, now of Oakland, Calif., and four daughters, Adelia Willacy Kearny, Diana Catherine Kearny Fosse, Susanna Joyce Kearny and Stephanie Kearny, all of Albuquerque. They survive him, along with six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        After the war, a poliolike disease left Mr. Kearny incapacitated for decades, but he continued to invent and promote specialized combat equipment, some of which was used in the Korean, Vietnam and Persian Gulf wars. His health later improved.
        Increasingly concerned about nuclear war, Mr. Kearny began to work independently on nuclear survival.
        In 1961, Herman Kahn, a prominent nuclear strategist, invited him to join the Hudson Institute to study nuclear defense issues. Three years later, Dr. Wigner recruited him to Oak Ridge, and he began the projects that led to his book on surviving nuclear war.
        As the cold war thawed, he shifted his concerns to the danger of a limited nuclear attack by rogue nations and terrorists, his daughter Stephanie said.
        ''Throughout his life,'' she said, ''he believed in being prepared for trouble.''
      