
        Victor Argo, a New York character actor who played dozens of heavies, hoodlums and hardened detectives in movies by directors like Martin Scorsese, Abel Ferrara and Jim Jarmusch, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Lillian LaSalle, Mr. Argo's manager.
        With a jowly, lived-in face and a deep voice that suggested danger ahead, Mr. Argo carved a 40-year acting career around an array of small but well-defined performances in films and on television. In Mr. Scorsese's ''Mean Streets'' (1973) he played a young tough alongside Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel, two friends and fellow actors he also worked with in ''Taxi Driver'' (1976), in which Mr. Argo played a deli owner who had no problem using a baseball bat to make a point.
        Years later Mr. Scorsese would cast Mr. Argo somewhat against type in ''The Last Temptation of Christ'' (1988) in the role of the Apostle Peter. But Mr. Argo also continued to explore his malevolent milieu with meatier roles as an aging gangster in ''Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai'' (1999), directed by Mr. Jarmusch, and as Jennifer Lopez's father in the thriller ''Angel Eyes,'' (2001).
        He began his career onstage, though, and in recent years he had returned there, including his final project, playing the owner of the Tampa, Fla., cigar factory in ''Anna in the Tropics,'' Nilo Cruz's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, which closed a Broadway run in February.
        The child of Puerto Rican parents, Mr. Argo was born in the Bronx as Víctor Jiménez and initially worked as a jewelry seller, a printer and a cabdriver as he struggled to land acting jobs. ''I felt the prejudice was against the name, not even against me,'' he said in a recent interview in The New York Times. ''They couldn't conceive that someone with an obvious Latino name could play anything.''
        In response Mr. Argo adopted his stage name in the mid-1960's and soon found himself being cast in regional theater and smaller local productions. A fan of country music, Mr. Argo once considered a career in Nashville, going so far as to go thereto record several country songs. But acting paid the rent, and in 1972 Mr. Argo made his film debut -- as the ''second Cuban'' -- in the movie ''Dealing: Or the Berkeley-to-Boston 40-Brick Lost-Bag Blues.''
        The roles became bigger and more regular; between his first role and his last, Mr. Argo appeared in nearly 75 films. Mr. Ferrara was especially fond of Mr. Argo, casting him in a series of films, including ''King of New York'' (1990) and ''Bad Lieutenant'' (1992).
        He is survived by two sisters, Emma Novak of Vero Beach, Fla., and Louise Taibi of Roseville, Calif.
        In one of his last films, the unreleased ''Lustre,'' Mr. Argo stayed true to his character niche and his character, playing a tough-guy bill collector who nonetheless periodically breaks into song.
      