
        Ward Botsford, a producer of classical and spoken recordings, died on April 1 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Diana.
        Mr. Botsford was a champion of unusual repertory and forgotten historical recordings. At the Vox and Caedmon labels in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, he recorded little-known Dvorak pieces and spoken recordings by Sir John Gielgud, T. S. Eliot and others. He also made field recordings of the sounds of early NASA spaceships and supersonic jets.
        In 1979 he founded the Arabesque label to reissue music from EMI and other companies. Arabesque released a series of albums that became highly prized by collectors, including recordings of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas from the 1920's and 30's by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company.
        In the mid-1980's Arabesque started to produce original recordings. Mr. Botsford sought out musicians for the label and encouraged them to pursue unusual projects. The pianist Ian Hobson, an early success for Arabesque, recorded works by obscure British composers of the 18th and 19th centuries. Garrick Ohlsson, one of the label's biggest names, eventually recorded a 13-volume set of Chopin's complete piano music.
        Mr. Botsford founded Arabesque as a subsidiary of Caedmon, but in the late 80's he and a partner, Marvin Reiss, bought the label. He left the company soon after.
        In the 90's Mr. Botsford managed a classical music Web site for Microsoft and founded his own site, www.classicalmusicguide.com.
        Mr. Botsford received several Grammy Awards for his spoken recordings and was nominated for many more. In 1985 he was nominated for a Grammy as the producer of ''The Nutcracker,'' a children's album featuring Christopher Plummer and Michael Tilson Thomas.
        Besides his daughter Diana, of Lawrence County, Mo., he is survived by his wife, Lynn; another daughter, Andrea Botsford Castellano of Norwalk, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
      