
        Manny Dworman, a nightclub owner, musician and long a colorful fixture on the Greenwich Village scene, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said Noam Dworman, his son.
        A mentor to comedians, Mr. Dworman owned the Comedy Cellar, a 150-seat basement club at 117 Macdougal Street, and its upstairs adjunct, the Olive Tree Cafe. The Comedy Cellar, established in 1980, was a starting point for many contemporary comedians, including Ray Romano, Chris Rock, Jon Stewart, Jerry Seinfeld and Colin Quinn.
        Mr. Dworman appeared as himself in the Seinfeld documentary ''Comedian'' (2002). The club was renowned for its postperformance roundtable discussions with comedians in the audience about political issues. These exchanges were the inspiration for ''Tough Crowd With Colin Quinn'' on Comedy Central.
        Before presenting comedy, the club was the site of Cafe Feenjon, the Middle Eastern nightclub featuring a cross-cultural amalgam of Greek, Turkish, Arabic, Israeli, Armenian, Russian and Yiddish music. Mr. Dworman opened the club in 1960 as a coffeehouse, which quickly became a mecca for musicians. Six nights a week Mr. Dworman played the dual roles of bandleader and performer.
        A diminutive, wiry firebrand, Mr. Dworman also played oud, guitar and mandolin, and with his ensemble, the Feenjon Group, he recorded five albums. The band featured oud, doumbek, balalaika, guitar, accordion and occasional bouzouki, and performed concerts at Town Hall and Carnegie Hall. It inspired Erwin Frankel's nightly radio show ''Music From Around the World,'' which ran for 13 years (until 1972) on WABC-FM (now WPLJ-FM).
        Born Menachem Emanuel Dworman in Tel Aviv, Mr. Dworman came to the United States when he was 8 and later attended Columbia University. His early jobs included Fuller Brush salesman, cabdriver and merchant seaman.
        Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Ava.
      