
        Joseph J. Zimmermann Jr., who invented one of the first commercially successful answering machines, ancestor of sleeker later generations, died March 31 in Brookfield, Wis. He was 92.
        Sister Ann Christine, his friend and caregiver, announced his death. He lived in Elm Grove, Wis.
        Mr. Zimmermann's answering machine was the first to have a generally recognized name in the United States, the Electronic Secretary, and helped win some of the crucial legal and regulatory battles to allow use of any sort of answering machine at all. After 1957, when General Telephone and Electronics Inc. acquired the Electronic Secretary, it was probably the most widely advertised brand of answering machine, and tens of thousands were sold.
        Mr. Zimmermann went on to devise ways to retrieve messages when away from answering machines, as well as other improvements in phone technology. He lived to see the machines became ubiquitous before they began to disappear in the 1990's with the widespread availability of voice mail systems, which work better with cellphones.
        His original invention was designed to address the reluctance of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company and its Bell System affiliates to allow outsiders to install ''foreign'' devices on their lines. He circumvented the phone company rule by inventing a machine that mechanically lifted the phone receiver off the hook.
        Then a phonograph record played a recorded message, sending sound waves through the air, not through wires connected to the phone. A device then recorded the incoming message onto a strand of steel wire on a spool. At the end of 30 seconds, the recorder shut down, and the hoist returned the receiver to the hook.
        The idea for a telephone answering machine dates back at least to 1878, when Thomas Edison saw capturing ''momentary and fleeting'' phone messages as a good use for his newly invented phonograph.
        The first truly automatic answering machine was developed in the 1890's by Valdemar Poulsen, a Dane. Dr. Poulsen's machine, called the Telegraphone, became bogged down in licensing difficulties in the United States, but by the 1920's there was a steady market for answering machines in Europe, for business, not individual, use.
        Other answering machines were developed in the United States, including two by Edison that sold in small numbers. But AT&T persuaded the Federal Communications Commission to outlaw answering machines in the 1930's, arguing that they could harm the phone system as well as violate people's sense of privacy. Others asserted that AT&T was mainly protecting its monopoly on all phone-related products.
        But people kept trying to develop answering machines, and Mr. Zimmermann began to toy with his idea before World War II. In the post-war years, the F.C.C. and state regulatory commissions issued a series of decisions, some involving the Electronic Secretary, that allowed wider use of answering machines, as well as permitting them to be connected to the phone system.
        Joseph James Zimmermann Jr. was born in Milwaukee in 1912 and graduated from Marquette University in 1935 with a degree in electrical engineering. He became owner of an air-conditioning and heating company and got the idea for an answering machine because he could not afford to hire a secretary to take calls when he was out of the office.
        After serving in the army Signal Corps and being among the first soldiers to land on Omaha Beach on D-Day, Mr. Zimmermann resumed thinking about answering machines. The wire recorder, which had been greatly improved during World War II, meant that his earlier concept might be possible.
        In 1948, working in his basement in Elm Grove, he put together an 80-pound monstrosity, Electronic Secretary Model R1, which has become part of the collection of the Milwaukee Public Museum.
        ''It's like a Rube Goldberg machine,'' said John Lundstrom, the museum's curator of American history.
        Mr. Lundstrom said the machine seems to represent the first usable -- and used -- version of the answering machine, though he said that other developments elsewhere were critical to its creation.
        David Morton, author of ''Off the Record: the Technology and Culture of Sound Recording in America,'' said ''there was practically nothing technically innovative'' about Mr. Zimmermann's machine. Mr. Morton said that many of the components were purchased, and that Mr. Zimmermann's patents were for specific parts of the system.
        But Mr. Morton said the Electronic Secretary became prominent because one or two Midwestern Bell companies, notably Illinois Bell, bought rights to the company and leased it to customers.
        ''If that had not happened, we would not have heard of Mr. Zimmermann at all,'' he said.
        In 1949, Mr. Zimmermann joined with George W. Danner to form Electronic Secretary Industries, which was sold to GTE in 1957. Both continued to work for the company after the sale.
        Mr. Zimmermann went on to patent a security device that automatically dials a phone number and conveys information in the event of an emergency and a magnetic recorder used to monitor heart patients, among other things.
        Mr. Zimmermann is survived by his wife, Helen; his son, Joseph III of Montreal; and two grandchildren.
      