
        Gilbert Kerlin, who worked for 50 years to preserve the natural landscape and residential character of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, died at his home there on Friday, said his daughter, Sarah Gray Gund. He was 94.
        Riverdale, located along the Hudson River on the border of Westchester County, is a neighborhood of modest apartment buildings, single-family homes, winding roads and quiet streets, some of them resembling country lanes. That it remains this way is due in great part to a successful rezoning effort that Mr. Kerlin led in the early 1950's.
        At the time, Riverdale faced growing pressure from developers hoping to build high-rise apartments and shopping centers. In response, Mr. Kerlin, a lawyer who had moved to the neighborhood with his family after World War II, founded the Riverdale Community Planning Association. The association developed a rezoning plan to restrict construction of apartment buildings and encourage the building of one- and two-family homes.
        When the plan was approved by the New York City Planning Commission in 1954, it covered nearly three square miles and was considered one of the largest rezonings in the city's history.
        Mr. Kerlin was also instrumental in saving Wave Hill, the Riverdale estate overlooking the Hudson and the Palisades. In 1961, he persuaded its owners, who were considering selling the 20-acre estate to an apartment building developer, to donate it instead to the city. Later in the decade, he helped convert the estate to a public arboretum and center for art and environmental science.
        ''Gil almost single-handedly saved Wave Hill,'' said the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, who served as vice president of the Riverdale Community Planning Association. ''He also saved other open spaces and brought a new library and new schools to the neighborhood. His energy has helped keep Riverdale a very livable community.''
        Gilbert Kerlin was born in 1909 in Camden, N.J. A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, he also studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, and served in the Army Air Corps during World War II. He was a partner at Shearman & Sterling, where he spent his entire professional career.
        In 2000, Mr. Kerlin was in the news when he was sued in a dispute over oil and gas revenues from property he had purchased in 1938 on Padre Island, off Brownsville, Tex. A jury in Brownsville found that he owed more than $1 million in royalties to the descendants of the island's original titleholders, a 19th-century Spanish priest and his nephew. The case is under appeal.
        Mr. Kerlin is survived by his wife Katherine Marsters Kerlin of Riverdale; his children Sarah, of Riverdale; Gilbert, of Philadelphia; and Jonathan, of San Francisco; his sister, Catharine Wilder of Brunswick, Me.; four grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and four stepchildren. His wife of 60 years, Sarah, died in 2001.
        Correction:  April 13, 2004, Tuesday  A picture credit was omitted yesterday with an obituary about Gilbert Kerlin, who worked to preserve the Riverdale section of the Bronx. The photographer was Mekea Z. Hurwitz, for The Riverdale Press.
      