
        Stanley de Jongh Osborne, a New York investment banker, a presidential adviser on aviation and honorary chairman of New York Presbyterian Hospital, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 99.
        His family announced his death.
        Mr. Osborne joined Lazard Frères & Company, the investment firm, in 1964 after a career with Eastern Air Lines under Capt. Eddie Rickenbacker and the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation. At his death he was a limited partner in Lazard.
        He was also a director emeritus of Recordings for the Blind, which his wife, Elizabeth Ide Osborne, helped found in the late 1940's. He joined the board of what was then New York Hospital in 1957 and became its honorary chairman in 1986.
        He was born in San José, Costa Rica, and graduated from Phillips Academy Andover in Massachusetts in 1922 and from Harvard in 1926. He did postgraduate business studies at Harvard in 1927 and was a special assistant the next year to the president of the United States Olympic Committee, Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
        He went into business with the Atlantic Coast Fisheries Company in Boston in 1929 and rose to treasurer and secretary of the company.
        In 1944 he joined Eastern Air Lines as vice president for traffic and sales. In 1950 he went to the Mathieson Chemical Corporation as treasurer. After the company's merger with Olin Industries, he became president and chairman of Olin Mathieson in 1957.
        In 1963, Mr. Osborne's expertise as an airline executive prompted President John F. Kennedy to ask him and Eugene R. Black, a former president of the World Bank, to weigh the feasibility of an American competitor to the Concorde, the projected British-French supersonic jetliner. Mr. Osborne remained an adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson until 1967 on the commercial supersonic transport, which was never built. He was also a special consultant to the administrator of NASA until 1968.
        Mr. Osborne became a limited partner at Lazard in 1970.
        Elizabeth Osborne died in 1984 after 55 years of marriage to Mr. Osborne. Mr. Osborne is survived by two daughters, Mary O. Witherbee, of Princeton, N.J., and Cynthia O. Hoskins, of California, Ky.; a son, Richard de J., of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren; and 24 great-grandchildren.
      