
        Neil Upmeyer, a widely respected public-interest researcher in New Jersey who, as head of the Center for Analysis of Public Issues tackled subjects like campaign finance, lobbying and the environment, died on Friday at his home in Lambertville, N.J. He was 57.
        The cause was cancer, said a friend, Tom O'Neill, executive director of the Partnership for New Jersey, a forum of business leaders that addresses statewide governmental issues.
        From 1990 to 1998, Mr. Upmeyer was president of the center, located in Princeton, and edited its magazine, New Jersey Reporter. Before that, he was a vice president of the Gallup Organization, responsible for public-affairs research.
        More recently, he was a financial manager in the political campaigns of Representative Rush D. Holt, a Democrat of Pennington, N.J. He also operated his own consulting firm, Neil Upmeyer & Associates in Stockton, N.J.
        Mr. Upmeyer, a native of Tampa, Fla., graduated in history from Duke University and was a fellow of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers. During the Vietnam War, he served in Southeast Asia as a captain in the Air Force.
        He came to New Jersey in 1976 for Common Cause to work with the state's Election Law Enforcement Commission, which oversaw public financing in the campaign for governor the following year. He stayed to become director of the election division of the New Jersey Department of State.
        Mr. Upmeyer joined Gallup in 1984 as a vice president. He conducted a survey of black opinion in South Africa regarding economic sanctions and corporate divestments in that country over its apartheid policy.
        He directed surveys in the Soviet Union, like one taken for Newsweek magazine on popular views of superpower relations before a 1987 summit conference. He was one of the first American opinion researchers working in Eastern Europe and did the spadework for Gallup polling operations there.
        As president of the Center for Analysis of Public Issues and editor of New Jersey Reporter, he gained wider public visibility, often appearing on television and radio interview programs.
        Mr. Upmeyer's wife, Mimi, died of cancer last September. He is survived by a daughter, Mariana M. Upmeyer of Browns Mills, N.J.; a son, Nicholas C., of Lambertville; a brother, Ernst A. III of Belleair, Fla.; and a sister, Mary Kathryn Hardman of Arlington, Va.
      