
        Phil Sokolof, a Nebraska industrialist whose heart attack turned him into a national evangelist of a low-cholesterol diet, died on Thursday in Omaha. He was 82.
        His death was announced by the National Heart Savers Association, of which he was the founder and president and through which he pursued his campaign against fat and cholesterol. The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Sokolof, a prosperous maker of construction supplies like drywall, had his epiphany in 1966. That was when, he said later, he -- a lean nonsmoker who worked out regularly but moderately -- had the heart attack that nearly killed him.
        The event focused his mind on dietary considerations. ''I was a student in the greasy hamburger school of nutrition for my first 43 years,'' Mr. Sokolof wrote in 1991. ''But a shocking 300 cholesterol level got my attention.''
        By then, he had founded the nonprofit Heart Savers and spent $3 million of his own money running full-page newspaper advertisements contending that McDonald's and other fast-food restaurants were poisoning America with high-cholesterol menus.
        He and the foundation, formed in 1985, supported free cholesterol screenings around the country. The foundation conducted campaigns that ''cholesterol kills'' and helped to stoke a debate about cholesterol.
        There is little doubt that for most people high cholesterol increases health risks. Saturated fat and trans fat in the diet can raise blood cholesterol, though they are not the same thing as cholesterol.
        When McDonald's introduced a low-fat, low-cholesterol hamburger in 1991, Mr. Sokolof took a bow and needled the other chains to follow suit. His organization's tests of cholesterol levels helped to push Congress into proclaiming a National Know Your Cholesterol Month and to persuade food processors to cut down on highly saturated coconut and palm oils. It is also credited with helping to pass legislation strengthening requirements for listing cholesterol content on food labels.
        Later, Mr. Sokolof underwrote a campaign urging consumers to switch from milk with 2 percent fat, or half the 4 percent of whole milk, to skim milk, with 0 percent fat.
        A fresh volley of newspaper advertising in 1996 took on the makers of cholesterol-lowering medications like Zocor. The advertisements carried the headline ''The Gouging of America'' and accused the drug makers of profiteering from prescription drugs with annual sales in the billions of dollars.
        Altogether, his campaigns were said to have cost Mr. Sokolof about $15 million.
        Philip Sokolof was born on Dec. 14, 1921, in Omaha, the son of a fruit merchant who branched out into liquor stores and bars. After high school, Mr. Sokolof spent four years on the road with a band as a song-and-dance man but then settled down for a more stable life.
        He went into home building, found a way to produce certain construction components less expensively and started making them himself. He founded the Phillips Manufacturing Company in 1955. By the time he had his heart attack, he was a millionaire several times over.
        After his recovery, he educated himself to the dangers of cholesterol and began to bombard food processors and other purveyors of saturated fats with letters. There was little initial response. But his mission gained ammunition from evidence linking cholesterol with clogged arteries and heart disease.
        Once the manufacturers started modifying their products, Mr. Sokolof continued to make the point, writing a book, ''Add Years to Your Life'' (2002). He is credited by lawmakers like Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, with helping to bring about federal legislation requiring nutritional labels in the early 1990's.
        He sold his company in 1992 to give Heart Savers his full attention.
        Mr. Sokolof's wife, Ruth Rosinsky Sokolof, a teacher of blind preschoolers, died in 1982. He is survived by a son, Steven, of Miami; a daughter, Karen S. Javitch of Omaha; a sister, Soralee Cohn, also of Omaha; and four grandchildren.
        ''I can't say we're going to tear down the golden arches by the year 2000,'' Mr. Sokolof told The New York Times in 1990, ''but I am confident that by the year 2000 they are going to be serving more healthful food.''
      