
        Denny Dent, a performance artist who frenetically splashed, dabbed and spilled his way to quirky celebrity by lighting into six-foot-high canvases with three paintbrushes in each hand to produce portraits of famous people -- sometimes working on an upside-down canvas that he would then right -- died on Monday in Aurora, Colo. He was 55 and lived in Denver.
        The cause was multiple organ failure, said Harris Goldberg, Mr. Dent's manager.
        Mr. Dent, who billed his artistic onslaught as the ''Two-Fisted Art Attack,'' played to 300,000 people at the 25th anniversary Woodstock festival in 1994. His subjects included presidents, a pope, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and, most frequently, rock stars, dead and alive. He completed the portraits in the time of a song or two, usually seven minutes, and sold some for as much as $60,000 each.
        Mr. Dent could also paint with his feet, but seldom did so in public. What he called his ''dance on canvas'' featured maniacal, mesmerizing movement, but he regarded the sermons he shouted over the music while he painted as his main mission. He said he turned down mention in the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's fastest artist because he feared the distinction might detract from his inspirational message about the saving graces of art.
        ''I'm out to disturb the heart of the nation,'' he told former President Gerald R. Ford when he painted him in eight minutes at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, according to an article in The Rocky Mountain News in 1995. ''I've got no time to lose.''
        His hybrid art form of painting, music and choreography rang the cash register to the tune of $25,000 a performance at rock concerts, corporate get-togethers and other events. Sometimes Mr. Dent referred to himself as an ''artrepreneur.'' At other times he called himself ''a kid playing in mud.''
        Dennis Eugene Dent was born in Oakland, Calif., on April 5, 1948. His mother was an artist who during her pregnancy painted what she imagined his face would be, he said in an interview with The Detroit Free Press in 1997. His grandfather insisted that the family was directly descended from Titian, according to an article in Northwest Airlines World Traveler in 1999.
        His boyhood family -- which consisted of his mother, grandmother, aunt, uncle, 5 dogs, 18 cats and hundreds of goldfish -- was on welfare, The Rocky Mountain News said. He dropped out of school in the 10th grade and alternated between what he called ''drunken artist'' binges and making a living doing commercial art.
        In 1981, he was spending days in a bar in Las Vegas, ''trading pictures for pitchers,'' in his phrase, when he heard that a radio station was planning a vigil in a local park to observe the first anniversary of John Lennon's murder.
        ''I called the radio station and said that I'd like to come and express myself,'' Mr. Dent told The Rocky Mountain News. ''They said, 'What do you do?' and I told them I could paint with both hands. I was very emotional, and they sensed that and saw that I was basically harmless, so they said, 'Sure, come and do it.' ''
        By his own description, he sounded like a cross between a Southern Baptist preacher and Jack Kerouac. The crowd went wild, and a promoter asked him the name of his show. ''Show? What show?'' Mr. Dent replied, according to an article in The Christian Science Monitor in 2000.
        He was hired to do his instant-painting act at the Troubadour in Los Angeles as an opening act for Steppenwolf. His performance took shape as he toured colleges with the B-52's.
        He prepared for painting a new subject by using photographs to make a composite sketch and then added music and choreography. When the show began, ''I just get up there and go nuts,'' he told The Rocky Mountain News.
        He painted a galaxy of rock stars with their own music playing, painted Mozart and Beethoven accompanied by symphony orchestras, President Clinton at his inauguration, Pope John Paul II at a Denver youth rally, and Mr. Giuliani to the strains of opera arias.
        Art critics, if they noticed Mr. Dent at all, were not uniformly dazzled. Randy Gragg, writing in The Oregonian in 1999, said that Mr. Dent's works ''wouldn't earn a C in any local art school's second-year painting class,'' and observed that Elvis Presley's mouth resembled ''the entrance to a theme-park ride.''
        Mr. Dent, who is survived by his wife, Ali Christina Flores, conceded that he could not draw a straight line. But he said the point of art was to help one stretch oneself, something he did quite literally, as evidenced by several herniated discs.
        ''You have to take chances and fall down and look stupid or you'll never know what you missed,'' he said to The Rocky Mountain News. ''You can fall asleep for a lifetime and miss the whole thing.''
      