
        James Richard Cantalupo, an accountant who planted the arches of McDonald's on foreign soil before being called out of retirement to help the company at home as chairman and chief executive, died unexpectedly yesterday in Orlando, Fla. He was 60 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill., outside Chicago.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, according to an announcement from the McDonald's Corporation, where Mr. Cantalupo had been at the helm for 16 months. The announcement said he was in Orlando for the chain's international owner and operator convention.
        Mr. Cantalupo was president of McDonald's International from 1987 to 1997, presiding over a big expansion overseas. He brought Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets to markets from the former Soviet Union to Hong Kong and Qatar.
        Under Mr. Cantalupo, the roster of countries with McDonald's restaurants rose to 118 from 47. By its current count, McDonald's has more than 30,000 outlets in 119 countries, serving about 47 million customers a day.
        Growth overseas vastly outpaced the performance in the United States and cemented the company's position as the biggest fast-food operation in the world. But at home, competition and the growing recognition of obesity as a national health problem took its toll on the corporate bottom line. Mr. Cantalupo, who retired in 2001, was called back to try to repeat in the United States what he had done abroad.
        He was credited with turning McDonald's around by concentrating on better service and, catering to the awakening health-awareness of the American consumer.
        Just last month, flanked by top executives, Mr. Cantalupo reviewed the initial successes of his revitalization efforts. And last Thursday, McDonald's presented a ''Bold Balanced Lifestyles Platform'' that acknowledged customers' problems with fast, big helpings of fatty foods. The program offered to help adults achieve the right balance between calorie intake and exercise and to help children ''adopt active, balanced lifestyle habits.''
        Mr. Cantalupo had lost weight in recent years and appeared fit after having been overweight in the 1990's, said Dick Adams, a former McDonald's executive and a franchisee consultant, according to The Associated Press. Mr. Adams said international travel has taken a toll on industry executives.
        ''He was doing an extensive amount of international travel,'' Mr. Adams said, according to The A.P. ''That's about the most stressful thing you can do to yourself.''
        Mr. Cantalupo is survived by his wife of 30 years, JoAnn Lucero Cantalupo; a daughter, Christine; and a son, Jeffrey.
        James Cantalupo was born in Oak Park, Ill., and graduated with a degree in accounting from the University of Illinois. A certified public accountant, he worked for Arthur Young & Company for eight years before joining McDonald's as controller in 1974.
        He was promoted to vice president in 1975 and was senior vice president and controller from 1981 to 1985. After stints as district manager for the Chicago region, and zone manager for the Northeast, he took on the burgeoning international division in 1987.
        He next became chairman and chief executive of that division and in 1999 was named vice chairman and president of the McDonald's Corporation. Two years later, he announced his intention to retire.
        The company was then undergoing a major management shake-up. Its chairman and chief executive, Jack M. Greenberg, who had earlier pledged to remain in charge for at least three more years, retired at the end of 2002. Mr. Cantalupo was asked to return at that time.
        ''We don't want McDonald's to look and feel 50 years old to our customers,'' he told an audience of Wall Street analysts last month. ''We want McDonald's to be forever young.''
        Correction:  May 14, 2004, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on April 20 about James R. Cantalupo, chairman and chief executive of McDonald's, misstated his role in the company's Hong Kong expansion. McDonald's already had franchises there when Mr. Cantalupo took over international operations in 1987; he did not preside over the initial expansion.
      