
        Norris D. McWhirter, one of the founders of Guinness World Records, the ubiquitous reference work that keeps track of superlatives both serious and frivolous, from sports records and tall buildings to the oldest licensed driver (104) and the farthest a person has walked with a milk bottle balanced on his head (80.96 miles), died yesterday at his home in Wiltshire in southern England. He was 78.
        He died after a heart attack he suffered after playing tennis on Monday evening, a family spokesman told The Associated Press.
        Mr. McWhirter started the publication, long known as the Guinness Book of Records, with his twin brother, Ross, in 1954; the first edition appeared the next year. Together they discovered and then printed that the record mother of twins was a Russian woman who gave birth to 16 sets of twins from 1725 to 1765, not to mention seven sets of triplets and four sets of quadruplets.
        Annual editions of their multifarious mix of matchlessness have surpassed 100 million in sales, making it the world's best selling copyrighted book, at least according to itself. (The Bible, the Koran and Mao's ''little red book'' -- all larger sellers -- are not copyrighted.)
        Though the twins once personally helped cram 70 people into a compact car, other records were sent in from around the world and all received scrupulous inspection before acceptance. Once, when Mr. McWhirter was accosted by a machete-wielding cane-cutter, who claimed a record for cutting cane, he calmly requested documentation.
        Except for life-threatening stunts -- like the lowest height from which a handcuffed parachutist has dived -- pretty much any activity became fair game for setting a record. (Mr. McWhirter was personally unenthusiastic about pop music because it was ephemeral and Greek mythology because it was made up, but did not totally bar these subjects.) After all, new and updated categories meant new editions for people to buy.
        In 2003, a columnist at The Evening Standard, a London newspaper, called the record book ''The Guinness Book of Morons Doing Pointless Things to Make Ross and Norris McWhirter Even Richer.''
        Ross was murdered in 1975 after offering a reward of £50,000 for information leading to the arrest of Irish Republican Army bombers. He and Norris were outspoken in their conservative views on many political and social issues, with Norris in recent years becoming a leader of the opposition to Britain's forging closer ties with Europe.
        Norris continued to appear on a British Broadcasting Corporation television show on which he and his brother had starred, ''Record Breakers.'' He answered any question the audience chose to ask from memory. Exchanges were unrehearsed.
        A typical question: How many miles away can a male silkworm moth detect a female by smell?
        ''Six, he tells you without a moment's hesitation,'' The Times of London reported in 1989.
        A later expression of his cleverness was his forming a company to secure a monopoly on rights for televising the sighting of the earliest sunrise of the new millennium on Pitt Island near New Zealand. He ballyhooed the island as the first terrestrial, accessible, populated place the sun would strike.
        Norris D. McWhirter and his brother were born on Aug. 12, 1925, in London. Their father was editor of several newspapers, including The Daily Mail, and he brought home 150 newspapers a week. His sons developed an interest in systematizing the information, by compiling lists of the deepest lakes or longest tunnels, for example.
        Both attended Trinity College at Oxford, both were track stars and both saw minesweeping duty as members of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve in World War II.
        They worked as sports writers for newspapers, and in the early 1950's formed McWhirter Twins Limited to sell facts and figures, particularly sports information. Fleet Street newspapers were the main customers.
        On May 6, 1954, Norris became part of history himself by being the official announcer when Roger Bannister broke the four-minute barrier for running a mile.
        The crowd at a track meet at Oxford drowned out his voice as soon as he said, ''The time is three . . . .''
        The idea for The Guinness Book of Records came during a shooting party in Ireland in 1951. When Sir Hugh Beaver, managing director of Arthur Guinness, Son & Co. Ltd., brewer of Guinness stout, and his friends failed to down a flock of golden plovers, they argued about whether it or the red grouse was Europe's fastest bird.
        The answer turned out not to be in encyclopedias, but the McWhirters happily supplied it: grouse, 58 to 63 miles an hour, and plover, 50 to 55 miles an hour. Sir Hugh realized the utility of a reference book -- with his company's name on it, of course -- to settle similar arguments in the 84,000 pubs of Britain and Ireland. Within six months of publication, it was No. 1 on Britain's best-seller list.
        Norris had found an avocation as well as a highly remunerative vocation. A typical vacation was to the Atacama desert in Chile, rainless for 400 years and the driest place in the world, at least according to Guinness. On a trip to Japan in the early 80's, he delighted in meeting what was then thought to be the oldest man in the world, Shigechiyo Izumi, believed to be 116. He lived to be 120 -- or perhaps only 105, later research suggested.
        ''The thing about him that was so amazing, and so annoys the doctors, is that he drank like a fish and smoked like a furnace,'' he said in an interview with The Sunday Mail in 1993. ''He began smoking when he was 70 years old.''
        Mr. McWhirter is survived by his wife, Tessa, and a daughter, Jane, and a son, Alasdair.
        He went on to other writing assignments after retiring as editor of Guinness Records in 1986, and as advisory editor in 1996. One project was ''Norris McWhirter's Book of Millennium Records'' (Virgin, 1999), which traced the evolution of world records from prehistory.
        By 1981, some records, at least as far as Mr. McWhirter was concerned, were already eternal. He dropped the category of bike-eating from Guinness because, he concluded, it was silly.
      