
        Frank Schiff, the third generation of a New York family to run a prominent old-line insurance brokerage business before global conglomerates became dominant, died on April 8 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Schiff died after a brief illness, said David Schiff, a nephew and editor of Schiff's Insurance Observer.
        As his grandfather Simon and his father, William, had before him, Frank Schiff headed Schiff Terhune Inc., a nationwide concern that provided general insurance and risk-management services to large corporations and their executives. It advised them on matters like loss control and the right mixture of insurance coverage, and it negotiated with insurers on their behalf.
        The company, with headquarters on Maiden Lane in the financial district of Manhattan, was founded by Simon Schiff in 1906.
        Frank Schiff, a native New Yorker, attended Lawrenceville School in New Jersey and Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. In 1941 he entered military service and rose to the rank of captain, working in intelligence with the Ninth Air Force in Europe.
        Mr. Schiff's father died in 1964, and he became chairman and chief executive of Schiff Terhune. During his tenure, the company grew into Schiff Terhune International, one of the country's largest private insurance brokers, eventually handling clients' premiums worth about $250 million a year. It counted among its clients corporations like Allied Stores, CBS, Chris-Craft Industries, Piper Aircraft, Philip Morris and Siemens.
        Schiff Terhune's revenue had increased 10-fold by 1982, when it was acquired by Reed Stenhouse of Canada and became part of a still larger holding company, the brokerage firm of Alexander & Alexander. Mr. Schiff stayed on as a vice chairman until his retirement in 1988.
        In 1997, Alexander & Alexander was bought by the Aon Corporation of Chicago, which through a series of acquisitions has become the world's second-largest insurance broker, after the Marsh & McLennan Companies of New York.
        Mr. Schiff and his wife of 49 years, Gloria O'Connor Schiff, were prominent for years in New York social and philanthropic circles. Mrs. Schiff was one of the Toni Twins, advertising symbols of the home-permanent brand in the 1940's and 50's. She survives him.
      