
        Joel Feinberg, a political and social philosopher who did groundbreaking work in the fields of individual rights and the authority of the state, died March 29 at a nursing home in Tucson. He was 77 and lived in Tucson.
        The cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his son, Benjamin Feinberg.
        Professor Feinberg, who taught for years at the University of Arizona, was recognized for his writing on moral, social and legal philosophy. His major work was ''The Moral Limits of the Criminal Law'' (Oxford University Press), which was published in four volumes.
        His approach in that work was explained by Jody S. Kraus, a former student of Professor Feinberg's and a professor of both law and philosophy at the University of Virginia Law School:
        ''Following John Stuart Mill, Feinberg believed that political philosophy begins with a normative presumption in favor of individual liberty. The task of justifying political coercion, then, consists in identifying so-called liberty-limiting principles, which set out the conditions under which that presumption is overridden and the state is justified in exercising coercion.
        Each volume of 'Moral Limits' is devoted to an extensive analysis of one of four such principles that might justify the imposition of criminal sanctions.''
        In each volume -- ''Harm to Others'' (1984), ''Offense to Others'' (1985), ''Harm to Self''' (1986) and ''Harmless Wrongdoing'' (1988) -- Professor Feinberg found the state's justification for setting limits on freedom ''less and less persuasive,'' Professor Kraus said.
        ''He had a unique and unsurpassed ability to identify conceptual distinctions that organized and illuminated previously obscure questions,'' Professor Kraus said. ''He changed the way people thought about things.''
        As Jules L. Coleman, another former student who is a professor of philosophy at Yale University Law School, put it, ''Feinberg defends the view that the state's power can be employed against individuals primarily only if their actions are likely to be harmful to others and not, for example, if they are merely offensive or morally repugnant to a powerful majority.''
        Thomas Nagel, a professor at New York University Law School, called ''The Moral Limits of the Criminal Law''  ''one of the most profound works on legal philosophy.''
        Professor Feinberg was widely admired for the simple concreteness with which he described abstract issues. In ''Offense to Others,'' he weighed the balance between individual and community rights by asking his readers to imagine they were riding in a bus they could not leave and being subjected to a series of potential offenses -- loud music, scratching on a metallic surface, the handling of what looked like a real grenade, overt sexual behavior. He then drew precise distinctions and arrived at what he saw as correct principles.
        Joel Feinberg was born in Detroit on Oct. 19, 1926. He briefly attended the University of Illinois in 1944 and then joined the Army, where he served in an officer training program in Chicago. After leaving the Army in 1946, he went on to earn three degrees from the University of Michigan: a B.A. in 1949, an M.A. in 1951 and a Ph.D. in 1957.
        In May 1955, he married Betty Grey Sowers. They had two children, Melissa, of Alexandria, Va., and Benjamin, of Asheville, N.C. His wife and children survive him, along with three grandchildren and a sister, Lois Kozlow of Birmingham, Al.
        Professor Feinberg began teaching at Brown University in 1955 and moved to Princeton in 1957 and the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1966. He was a professor of philosophy at Rockefeller University from 1967 to 1977. In 1978 he joined the faculty of the University of Arizona, Tucson. After retiring in 1994, he was regents professor of philosophy and law emeritus until his death. He lectured at many other universities throughout the world.
        His first book, ''Reason and Responsibility: Reading in Some Basic Problems of Philosophy'' (Dickenson, 1965), which he edited and for which he wrote the section introductions, is in its 12th edition. It remains, according to its publisher's records, one of the top-selling anthologies of philosophical writings.
        Professor Feinberg edited many other books, jointly and alone, among them ''The Problem of Abortion'' (Wadsworth, 1973), for which he wrote the introduction. He also contributed articles to many publications. He was a past president of the American Philosophical Association.
      