
        Perry B. Duryea Jr., a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died yesterday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82.
        His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died at about 4:30 p.m. from injuries he sustained in a car accident near his Montauk home last Tuesday.
        Mr. Duryea, a Republican, was first elected to the State Assembly in 1960, and became the Assembly minority leader in 1966. He would remain a prominent figure in the Assembly until 1978, serving as speaker from 1969 through 1973, and again as minority leader from 1974 to 1978.
        ''As a speaker, he was a brilliant, compassionate leader whose contributions helped improve the quality of life for New Yorkers across the state,'' Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno told the Associated Press last night.
        Mr. Bruno described Mr. Duryea as ''one of New York's greatest leaders.
        He came from a family of lobstermen who controlled Perry Duryea and Sons, a Montauk seafood company. Throughout his years in elective office, he remained a familiar figure in Montauk, often returning home to tend to the family business.
        It was a business that was acquired by his father Perry B. Duryea, in the early 1920's. Father and son shared an interest in politics, since the senior Mr. Duryea served as a state senator.
        The younger Mr. Duryea forged close relations in Albany with Robert Moses and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, and pushed through legislation that expanded state parks and the state university system. Mr. Duryea also headed the Long Island State Park Commission and championed construction of the Long Island Expressway.
        ''I never thought that the political life was supposed to be easy,'' he said in a 1977 interview, the year before running unsucessfully for governor against Hugh L. Carey, the incumbent Democrat.
        ''Little in life is simple, especially politics, with its cross currents, reactions and personalities,'' he said.
        Mr. Duryea's political ascendancy was not without setbacks. He was indicted by a grand jury in 1973 for election law violations. But the charges were later dropped, and Mr. Duryea received a unusual degree of support among his colleages, with both Republican and Democratic legislators rising to his defense.
        He left office in after losing the 1978 election to Mr. Carey. But Mr. Carey, who had a home on the eastern end of Long Island, maintained a long friendship with Mr. Duryea.
        Born in Montauk, Mr. Duryea graduated from Colgate University and served in the United States Naval Transport Service as a plane commander during World War II, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander.
        Mr. Duryea's son said in a 1997 interview that his father ''never left Montauk again'' after the losing the race for governor.
        Besides his son, Mr. Duryea is survived by his wife, Marie Therese Duryea of Montauk, a daughter, Lynn Duryea of Huntsville, Texas, and two grandchildren.
      