
        Thomas J. Corbally, an American businessman whose exquisitely cultivated aura of mystery and power first materialized in Britain in 1963 when he surfaced as a player in the drama of spies, prostitutes and politicians that was the Profumo scandal, died on April 15 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 83.
        The cause was complications of heart disease, his wife, Renee, said.
        Mr. Corbally, who for many years was associated with the detective and security agency Kroll Associates, mixed with movie stars and tycoons, cruised cafe society when there was a cafe society, was greeted effusively at the grand hotels of London, Paris and New York, and always seemed to be involved in something important, however vaguely defined.
        Was Mr. Corbally personally assigned by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to be an aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur so the president could keep an eye on the volatile general? His family and friends say so.
        They also say that he taught King Hussein of Jordan to water-ski, had Mother Teresa's private phone number, and was licensed to carry a gun in London. His romances may have included Doris Duke, Barbara Hutton and Mary McFadden; photographs show they were at least acquainted.
        His first wife was Gertrude (Gussy) Moran, an American tennis star who shocked spectators at Wimbledon by wearing just-visible ruffled, lace-trimmed underpants. He and Renee, his third and last wife, were definitely married in Paris by Jacques Chirac, then the mayor.
        Records of the Federal Bureau of Investigation show that Mr. Corbally revealed to the United States ambassador to the United Kingdom that the British war minister John Profumo and the military attaché at the Soviet Embassy had both had sex with Christine Keeler, a London call girl. The ambassador telephoned to inform Prime Minister Harold Wilson, whose government was later bought down by the scandal.
        How did Mr. Corbally know about the affairs? A contemporaneous F.B.I report, declassified in 1987, characterized him as an American businessman ''who reportedly ran sex orgies in his London flat.''
        In his last years, Mr. Corbally popped into prominence again because of his association with Martin Frankel, who pleaded guilty in 2002 to masterminding a scheme to loot more than $200 million from insurance companies.
        Mr. Corbally helped Mr. Frankel by introducing him to Robert Strauss, the Democratic Party heavyweight and Washington lawyer; Thomas Bolan, the law partner of the late Roy Cohn; and a monsignor with ties to the Vatican.
        A suit filed against Mr. Frankel by seven insurance commissioners said that he had given Mr. Corbally an American Express card (on which he charged $112,000 in a single month), $1.5 million wired to a Swiss bank account, a $5.8 million apartment and a Mercedes 600SL.
        Edward J. M. Little, Mr. Corbally's lawyer, said that no charges of wrongdoing had ever been attached to Mr. Corbally's association with Mr. Frankel.
        Mr. Corbally, whose looks were compared to those of Jason Robards and voice to that of Johnny Cash, dressed immaculately. Robert Evans, the Hollywood legend and his lifelong friend, called Mr. Corbally in an interview ''the quintessential playboy of the 40's and 50's.''
        In his book ''Stork Club: America's Most Famous Nightspot and the Lost World of Café Society,'' Ralph Blumenthal, a New York Times reporter, wrote that the one telephone number Mr. Corbally always remembered was Plaza 3-1940: the Stork Club's.
        ''The way Corbally divided the world, there were girls you slept with and took to the Copa, and there were girls you bought a black dress for and took to the Stork Club,'' Mr. Blumenthal wrote.
        Though Mr. Corbally eventually gave up his beloved cigars, and finally alcohol, he never lost his silvery charisma. Hagan Elgarrahy, manager of Harry Cipriani, another of his favorite haunts, told an interviewer, ''When he walked in, people felt his presence.''
        Nancy Bretzfield, a fixture on the Southern California social scene and a longtime friend of Mr. Corbally's, called him ''the original James Bond,'' although his only official spy duty was as a member of the Office of Strategic Services during World War II.
        John M. Murphy, a businessman who as a congressman in 1980 was imprisoned for accepting a bribe in the Abscam scheme, said: ''What is a spy? They don't have credentials. Let's say Tom was pretty good under cover.''
        Mr. Murphy continued: ''He's a fearless person. Some of the assignments he took on required more than courage.''
        Gregory Ehrlich, a friend and business associate, seemed to sum up the situation: ''Tom has always been the keeper of secrets.''
        Thomas Joseph Corbally was born in Newark on March 25, 1921. He briefly attended Seton Hall University before joining the Royal Canadian Air Force, then flew Spitfires in the Battle of Britain before joining the O.S.S. His official job titles, though, were often clerk or something equally deceptive, his wife said.
        Mr. Ehrlich said that after the war Mr. Corbally used various business positions as a cover, posing in Belgium as a representative of Muzak, for example. Mr. Ehrlich said that he did not know what Mr. Corbally's real mission was but that he knew nothing about Muzak.
        But he was a friend of some luminaries of postwar British society, like Lord White, Lord Hanson and Sir Jimmy Goldsmith, according to Ellen Joan Pollock in her book ''The Pretender: How Martin Frankel Fooled the Financial World and Led the Feds on One of the Most Publicized Manhunts in History'' (Wall Street Journal Books, 2003).
        The book said that Mr. Corbally later did investigations for the law firm Shearman and Sterling and for the New York power broker Roy Cohn, but that Kroll was his main source of income.
        Mr. Corbally said he opened his Rolodex to Mr. Frankel in part because he thought him sincere in the desire to give millions to Catholic charities. He said he was shocked when the scheme turned out to be criminal and, somewhat uncharacteristically, he pleaded naïveté.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Corbally is survived by a sister, Patricia Frenzille of Lakewood, N.J.
        Correction:  April 27, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Thomas J. Corbally, an American businessman who was often associated with celebrity scandals, misidentified the British prime minister whose government fell as a result of the 1963 Profumo scandal, which Mr. Corbally brought to light, according to F.B.I. records. It was Harold Macmillan. (Harold Wilson took office the next year.)
      