
        Alex Madonna, a businessman and real estate developer who created the Madonna Inn, a fantasy-theme hotel of outrageous excess and enduring California charm, died on Thursday at his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was believed to be a heart attack, said his daughter Connie Pearce, who is general manager of the inn.
        Mr. Madonna, also known as a rancher and a local philanthropist, was the imaginative force, with his wife, Phyllis, of the the 109-room inn. The story goes that he designed it on a napkin. The Madonnas opened it on Christmas Eve 1958, letting the first 12 travelers spend the night free of charge.
        Designed in a 19th-century Gothic and Swiss chalet style, the inn rests on a solid rock base. Reminiscent of the board game Candyland, it is doused in Pepto-Bismol pink. Everything from the street lights to the vending machines is painted in that shade, which the couple thought set a romantic mood for honeymooners.
        ''Psychologically, it lifted spirits,'' Ms. Pearce said. ''It is all round walls and curves. He didn't like straight lines.''
        A hot-pink sign flashes its welcome on Highway 101 in San Luis Obispo, halfway between San Francisco and Los Angeles, directing travelers to the hotel.
        Mr. Madonna always ate in his favorite gilded booth in the dining room, surrounded by cherubs and carpeted with the same thick pink roses found throughout the inn and his private home. ''He would wander through the steakhouse and see whether people were happy,'' Ms. Pearce said.
        The rooms, so popular that they require reservations a year in advance, have names like Edelweiss, Fabulous Fifties, Fleur-de-lis, Indian Room, Jungle Rock and Oriental Fantasy. Mr. Madonna designed the structure, while his wife had full reign of the interior.
        ''He didn't have a problem going over the top,'' Ms. Pearce said. The rooms are extreme, ranging from one with an overwhelmingly feminine fairy tale palace look, the architectural equivalent of lace lingerie, to a ''Flintstones''-style primitive dwelling.
        The Caveman Room has rock floors, walls and ceiling, a glowing fire and a waterfall shower with stained-glass windows. The room known as Time of Your Life is decorated around a giant golden clock, with watch works embedded in the bathroom tiles. The décor of Just Heaven is blue velvet, and there is a spiral staircase leading up to a second level.
        The overall effect was Hansel and Gretel charm mixed with the potential for a great screenplay. The inn was the setting for a segment involving an adulterous husband and wife in ''Aria,'' a 1987 film by various directors consisting of music-video-style segments based on opera arias.
        Mr. Madonna's other interests included cattle and horse ranches, a highway construction company and a shopping center. In 1997, in a dispute with the City of San Luis Obispo over a required environmental report for the shopping center land, he threatened to put in a pig farm so that drivers on a nearby road would be hit with an unpleasant smell.
        Mr. Madonna was born outside San Luis Obispo on Nov. 19, 1918, and grew up working on ranches with his family. His father died when Mr. Madonna was 9, and his older brother died two years later. He started his construction company before he graduated from high school. He and his wife met at a diner and were married within months in Las Vegas.
        His survivors include his wife and his daughter Ms. Pearce, both of San Luis Obispo; a sister, LaVerne Osborne of San Luis Obispo; his daughters Karen Twisselman of San Luis Obispo and Cathie Twisselman of Carrisa Plains, Calif.; a son, John Madonna of San Luis Obispo; and 10 grandchildren.
      