
        Philip Hamburger, a writer for The New Yorker for more than six decades whose meticulously calibrated inflections -- sober, droll and everything in between -- helped create and nurture the magazine's reputation for urbanity, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 89.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his son Richard Shaw Hamburger said in a telephone interview from Dallas.
        Mr. Hamburger began his career at a more leisurely time at the magazine, and Mr. Hamburger had observed that over the years he was left alone ''often for achingly long periods'' to write the long, detailed pieces that helped define The New Yorker. He was one of the few staff writers to work for all five of its editors: Harold Ross, William Shawn, Robert Gottlieb, Tina Brown and David Remnick.
        His signed articles concerned themselves with profiles, including 14 presidential inaugurations, starting with Franklin D. Roosevelt's first term; a variety of foreign and domestic correspondence; and movie and music criticism. He also wrote under the name Our Man Stanley, a mythic, forever young gadabout who was long on whimsy and breathless sentences.
        Mr. Hamburger wrote numerous unsigned pieces for the department known as Talk of the Town, sometimes about Stanley, sometimes not. This is what Stanley had to say in 1954 about the piano entertainer Liberace and his brother, George, who accompanied him on violin:
        ''Strong fingers, this fellow. Loves to run them up keys, back down, then up again. Series of runs and flourishes. Pedal work difficult to analyze. Keeps pumping feet up and down and sidewise, as though he were on electric horse. Keyboard technique interesting. Bang, bang, bang; up, down, back up. Ended numbers with gesture -- hands in air, high over head, and head thrown back. Triumphant. Women beside themselves. Shrieks and cries. Liberace still smiling. George looked tired.''
        Mr. Hamburger joined The New Yorker in 1939, when it was 15 years old and he was only 10 years its senior. He had earned his master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism only a year before. It was his only job for the better part of 60 years, except for the war years 1941 through 1943, when he worked for the Office of Facts and Figures, which later became known as the Office of War Information. During the latter part of the war, Mr. Hamburger served The New Yorker abroad, providing dispatches from Italy and Germany.
        Although he had a light touch, reflecting his own affability, there were times when he did not seek to amuse.
        In 1948, for example, he went to South America to track down rumors that Hitler was not dead but hiding in Argentina. He found no truth in the reports but in a lengthy dispatch from Buenos Aires he wrote about meeting Eva Perón:
        ''There, outside, surrounded by a hushed group of officials, was Señora Perón, in a fluffy pink dress with a large bustle. Her hair was arranged in a series of golden quoits, one above another. Her skin was strikingly pale, and her eyes were heavy-lidded and lowered. I noticed that, without raising her eyes, she was glancing rapidly from one of us to the other. She stood there, a figure in a pageant, as though she had just made her entrance as a young, hard, fanatical queen, poised, supremely confident, all-powerful. She played the role to perfection. She began to shake hands with us, one by one. Her expression never changed. She held out her hand to me, and I took it for an instant. It was stone cold.''
        Philip Hamburger was born July 2, 1914, in Wheeling, W.Va, the son of Harry and Janet Kraft Hamburger. The family moved to New York when he was about 7. He graduated from George Washington High School and Johns Hopkins University.
        His books attracted favorable notices, among them ''Mayor Watching and Other Pleasures'' (1958), which contained musings on the inhabitants of Gracie Mansion, from Fiorello H. La Guardia to Robert F. Wagner. His own apartment on East End Avenue was a short distance from Gracie.
        His other books, which reprinted material from the magazine, included, ''The Oblong Blue and Other Odysseys'' (1949), ''J. P. Marquand, Esq.'' (1952), ''Our Man Stanley'' (1963), ''An American Notebook'' (1965), ''Curious World: A New Yorker at Large'' (1987), ''Friends Talking in the Night: 60 Years of Writing for The New Yorker'' (1999) and ''Matters of State: A Political Excursion'' (2000).
        Mr. Hamburger's 1942 marriage to Edith Iglauer ended in divorce in 1966. Their children are Jay Philip Hamburger, of Vancouver, and Richard. His second wife was Anna Walling Matson, whom he married in 1968. She died in 2002. He is also survived by a stepson, Peter Matson of New York, and two grandsons.
      