
        Thomas Winner, a member of the Czech underground who escaped Nazism in 1939 as one of 20 East European students to receive full scholarships to Harvard, died on April 20 in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. A multilingual scholar and an expert on Russian literature, Dr. Winner was 86.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter, Ellen Winner.
        Dr. Winner, who was born in Prague on May 3, 1917, was among the first group of refugee scholars sponsored by the Harvard Committee to Aid German Student Refugees, a student-led organization that established the first scholarships for college men in Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe. The committee canvassed the United States, raising $500 a student, which Harvard matched. The university accepted 19 additional European students by 1942. About 20 more arrived in the United States later as the program expanded to campuses throughout the country.
        ''We wanted to pluck these students from the burning fire in Germany,'' a former committee member, Robert E. Lane, said in an interview. The program relied on professors to disseminate applications and an accompanying test to Eastern European universities and resistance centers.
        The 22-year-old Mr. Winner, who was Jewish, needed the Gestapo to certify his papers and declare him free of any criminal activity before he could legally leave Prague for the United States. His activism had led to a police record. After Mr. Winner persuaded an officer to let him enter the processing area, a German woman glanced at his record upside down, approved his application and sent him off. He traveled to England and sailed for New York on Sept. 2, 1939, the day after Germany invaded Poland to begin World War II.
        At Harvard, Mr. Winner threw himself into studies and protest, lecturing throughout on Nazi resistance and pursuing a degree in Russian literature.
        Dr. Winner, who spoke 20 languages, went to work for the Office for War Information, translating German propaganda, and later worked at Columbia. In 1948, he became a professor of Russian language and literature at Duke. Over the years, he also taught at the University of Michigan and Brown.
        An expert on Chekhov, he shifted his focus to linguistics and structuralism and helped open the United States' first center for the research of semiotics at Brown. He later transferred the program to Boston University.
        As Dr. Winner spent much of his career traveling throughout the United States and Europe, he organized conferences, held temporary appointments and researched new work.
        In addition to his daughter Ellen, of Cambridge, he is survived by his wife, Irene; a brother, Gerdi Weiner of Lenox, Mass.; another daughter, Lucy Winner of Brooklyn; and two grandchildren.
      