
        Col. Aaron Bank, who was known as ''the father of Special Forces'' for his role in creating the Army's unconventional-warfare units that became known as the Green Berets, died Thursday at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 101.
        His death was announced by the Army's Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg, N.C.
        Colonel Bank, a native of New York City, worked as a lifeguard and swimming instructor in the Bahamas and southern France as a young man. He traveled widely in Europe during the 1930's and had become fluent in French and German when he entered the Army in 1939. Four years later, while an officer with an Army transportation unit in Louisiana, he saw a notice seeking volunteers with foreign-language ability for special assignments.
        He signed up and became a part of the Office of Strategic Services' Jedburgh missions, small-unit operations that joined with resistance fighters for hit-and-run attacks in Nazi-occupied Europe.
        Colonel Bank remained in the Army after the war and became an advocate for special-warfare units that would do the type of work carried out by the O.S.S. While serving with a combat unit in the Korean War in 1951, he was called to Washington to work on creation of guerrilla-style units with Brig. Gen. Robert McClure, the head of the Army's psychological warfare staff, and Col. Russell Volckmann, who led Filipino guerrillas fighting the Japanese in World War II.
        Colonel Bank believed that areas where large-scale warfare was no longer probable, like the Soviet bloc countries of Eastern Europe, would be particularly good environments for unconventional warfare.
        But the creation of the elite Army units was not easy, as Colonel Bank recalled in a 1987 interview with The Los Angeles Times. He said that their advocates ''trod a pretty tortuous path through that maze that is called the Pentagon, and gradually we were able to brush aside the doubting Thomases, who were the traditionalists and the orthodox, and the objections of the C.I.A., who were fearful we'd tread on their charter.''
        In June 1952, Colonel Bank was named commander of the pioneering 10th Special Forces Group (Airborne) at Fort Bragg, whose total strength was 10 soldiers: Colonel Bank, a warrant officer and 8 enlisted men.
        ''I wanted none but the best,'' he told The Los Angeles Times in 1968. ''First, they had to be double volunteers; that is, they had to volunteer for parachuting and behind-the-lines duties, which takes a special flair, a special type of personality. We had to work up all the manuals and training procedures for demolition, sabotage, new and different ways of handling weapons. We had to teach them the classic aim and purpose of their service -- the organizing of civilian natives into guerrilla forces in enemy-held territory.''
        But it was not until the 1960's that Special Forces units, serving in the Vietnam War with their distinctive green berets, gained prominence.
        Colonel Bank retired from the military in 1958 and settled in Southern California, where he worked as chief of security for a residential development. His decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal, which he was awarded at age 97 in a ceremony attended by top commanders of the Special Forces.
        He wrote ''From O.S.S. to Green Berets: The Birth of Special Forces'' and, with E. M. Nathanson, the novel ''Knight's Cross,'' which was based in part on an O.S.S. mission Colonel Bank was to lead that envisioned capturing Hitler if he were to hide in the Austrian Alps when Nazi Germany collapsed.
        Colonel Bank is survived by his wife, Catherine; two daughters, Linda Ballantine of Dana Point and Alexandra Elliott of Anaheim, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
      