
        Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, an urbane tobacco man who in the face of rising health concerns about smoking led a relatively lackluster cigarette company called Philip Morris through Marlboro Country to become one of the largest corporations in America and the maker of the best-selling product in the world, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was announced by the Cullman family.
        Mr. Cullman retired as chairman and chief executive in 1978. But 21 years before that and well into the 80's and 90's, he continued to come in regularly to the Philip Morris headquarters in Manhattan, serving as chairman emeritus and playing a crucial role in a multipronged defense of the tobacco industry known as the ''cigarette wars.''
        His dealings involved legions of lobbyists, lawyers, public relations experts and legislators. For many years he contended with and often deflected and delayed calls to curb cigarette smoking and advertising by scientists, public health specialists, legislators, lung-damaged plaintiffs and personal injury lawyers.
        When the battles intensified, it was Mr. Cullman, who as chief spokesman for the industry, often appeared at Congressional hearings testifying that cigarettes were not a proven health hazard and that manufacturers should not be forced to include warnings on cigarette packages or in their advertisements. Similarly, Mr. Cullman took the lead in efforts to block a ban on cigarette advertising on radio and television, and it was his signature that was affixed to letters to editors pleading for ''objectivity,'' and opposing any rush to judgment on the dangers of tobacco.
        In Jan. 3, 1971, the day that the federal ban on cigarette advertising on television went into effect, Mr. Cullman, who by then had become chairman of the Tobacco Institute's Executive Committee, appeared on the program ''Face the Nation,'' saying, ''I do not believe that cigarettes are hazardous to one's health.''
        In response to a question on the same program about a study that concluded that smoking mothers gave birth to smaller babies than nonsmoking mothers, Mr. Cullman replied, ''Some women would prefer having smaller babies.''
        Mr. Cullman smoked for many years but eventually tapered off and quit. But in his memoir, ''I'm a Lucky Guy,'' published privately in 1998, Mr. Cullman did not dwell very much on the issues of smoking and health and revealed nothing at all about what may have been his private responses to assertions that cigarette smoke hastens mortality. He declared that the book was not intended to address the smoking-and- health question, which, he wrote, had ''no simple, easy answer.''
        In the book he sidestepped the debate by writing, ''to me, smoking is a personal choice that adults should be able to make when they have been adequately informed of the possible risks of smoking -- and they have been.''
        He added: ''We have changed our product to meet changing demand. We are changing our marketing.''
        Mr. Cullman, in his time at the helm and even after he left day-to-day operations, proved to be an expert not only at defending his company but also at planning for its future growth beyond cigarettes.
        He set the stage for diversification in 1969, when Philip Morris expanded outside the tobacco business for the first time by acquiring a majority stake in Miller Brewing (now part of SABMiller).
        The Philip Morris Companies, the parent organized in 1985, went on to buy General Foods, Kraft and Nabisco Holdings, adding brands like Maxwell House, Oreo and Oscar Meyer to its portfolio.
        He also helped lead the company into wide-ranging support for tennis (a lifelong personal interest) and the arts, with millions spent each year to underwrite concerts, ballets and exhibitions -- provoking criticism that such sponsorship was a subtle and unethical advertising ploy.
        Last year, the Altria Group, as the parent company was renamed, reported net earnings of $9.2 billion on revenue of $81.8 billion. Global tobacco produced most of the revenue, $50.3 billion.
        Perhaps most striking, the Philip Morris USA division of Altria now sponsors television announcements that remind viewers about risks posed by tobacco use and suggest that they visit the company Web site, which contains links to sections like ''quitting smoking'' and ''smoking and pregnancy.''
        Mr. Cullman was born into the tobacco business, but his background differed significantly from that of the Lorillards, the Dukes and the Liggetts of the Southern tobacco elite whose fortunes derived from a rural-based plantation culture.
        He was a politically liberal northerner, the descendant of immigrants from Germany, and his tobacco background grew out of cigars rather than cigarettes. His great-grandfather, Ferdinand Kullman, a cigar maker from Germany, settled in New York in 1848. His son, the first Joseph Cullman, became a dealer in Ohio leaf. An occasional musician, he was known as Piano Joe. His son, eventually called Joe Junior within the trade, went to Yale. He came to lead the General Cigar Company, which produced brands like White Owl, William Penn, Van Dyck and Robert Burns; at one time he owned 1,800 acres of tobacco fields in Connecticut.
        Joe Junior, had four sons, and the oldest of them, Joseph Ferdinand Cullman 3rd, grew to be designated as Joe Third. He attended the Ethical Culture primary school in New York and the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut and went on to Yale. His grandfather promised him a car if he would not smoke cigarettes until he turned 21 but when he held off until then all he received was a motorcycle. After graduation, he spent a short time working as a clerk in a Schulte Cigar store in New York and then was sent to Havana to work at the H. Upmann cigar factory in Havana.
        In 1935 he married Susan Lehman, the grandniece of Herbert H. Lehman, who was then the governor of New York. They had a daughter, Dorothy. They were divorced in 1974, and he married Joan Paley Straus, whom he later divorced and remarried. The first Mrs. Cullman died in 1994, and Joan Cullman died in March. In addition to his daughter, Dorothy Cullman Treisman, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., Mr. Cullman is survived by his brothers, Edgar M. Cullman and Lewis B. Cullman, both of New York; two stepchildren, Tracy Straus, of New York, and Barnard S. Straus, of Chicago; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        During World War II, Mr. Cullman spent three years as a gunnery officer aboard a cruiser that fought its way up the Coral Sea to Guadalcanal. Returning to civilian life, Mr. Cullman took over the management of a small company that his father purchased in 1941.
        It was called Benson & Hedges, an offshoot of an old British establishment and its principal place of business was a shop on Fifth Avenue that sold monogrammed, gold-tipped and hand-rolled cigarettes to the carriage trade. Mr. Cullman's father thought the place a suitable outlet for his cigars and bought control for $850,000. For this amount, he also acquired a luxury cigarette produced by Benson & Hedges called Parliament, with a recessed mouthpiece and a cotton filter.
        As Mr. Cullman took over, the sales of Parliaments surged despite or perhaps because of their high price and snob appeal.
        But this was a time that filter-tipped cigarettes were just being introduced by other companies. Philip Morris had no filters and its management thought that Parliaments might prove useful, particularly if health concerns with cigarette smoke were to intensify. In 1954 the company turned over stock valued at $22.4 million to Mr. Cullman's father for his interest in Benson & Hedges. Philip Morris obtained Parliaments and Benson & Hedges. It also acquired Mr. Cullman, who joined the company as a vice president.
        The next year he was named executive vice president and at the end of 1957, he was chosen president and chief executive. He held both titles until 1967 when he was named chairman and chief executive, staying on in that capacity until 1978.
        As for the company he joined, its fortunes were to rise even more steeply under his direction. In 1961, Philip Morris was dead last in sales among the six major American producers. By 1972 it was in second place and in 1983 it overtook Reynolds Tobacco, which had been the industry leader for the previous 25 years. It earned so much cash that it was driven to use its huge cigarette profits to seriously diversify, acquiring giants like Jacobs Suchard, Miller Beer and Kraft General Foods and becoming the largest consumer products company in the world. It sold the most popular cigarette in the world and the second most popular beer in America.
        It expanded abroad, establishing itself and its red, black and white Marlboro logo as one of the most universally recognized of commercial symbols. From 1964 to 1969, its cigarette sales increased a remarkable 63 percent and they kept climbing.
        All of this was set in motion when the rugged cowboy replaced the Lilliputian bellhop as the icon and mascot on the company's advertising. When Mr. Cullman took over Philip Morris, the company and its flagship cigarette of the same name were represented by a 43-inch-tall Brooklynite named Johnny Roventini. Beginning in 1933, when an advertising agency discovered him working at the New Yorker Hotel, the uniformed man in the pillbox hat stretched out the phrase ''Call for Philip Morris,'' as if he were paging someone in a hotel lobby.
        Mr. Cullman, in 1958, went looking for something fresher.
        As the company worked to develop a filter cigarette to challenge Winston, the runaway best seller that Reynolds had introduced, Mr. Cullman presided over a quest that involved not only the right mixture of tobacco, the appropriate filter, a new flip-top box, but also the right image that would attract smokers to Marlboros, a new cigarette to be marketed under an old brand that in the 20's had been aimed at women.
        Under Mr. Cullman's supervision, the Chicago-based Leo Burnett advertising agency created something approaching a national identity for smokers, inviting them ''to come to where the flavor is . . . come to Marlboro Country.'' Set against dramatic scenery, rugged wranglers with weathered faces lived intensely, played hard and smoked contentedly. A score from the Western film ''The Magnificent Seven'' written by Elmer Bernstein and drawing on music by Aaron Copland, Ferde Grofé and Rossini was acquired and provided Marlboro Country with its own national anthem.
        As Mr. Cullman recalled in his memoir, ''What was needed was a full-flavored filter brand that had a virile image.'' By 1983, with his help, Marlboro had become the best-selling product in the world.
        But as the company grew, the basic product upon which it had built its riches, the cigarette, was coming under increasing attack as a menace to health. In 1953 an epidemiologist named Ernest L. Wynder showed that more than half the mice that had their backs painted with cigarette tar distillate developed cancerous tumors. That year The Journal of the American Medical Association stopped taking cigarette ads.
        Three years later, a study of 200,000 smokers by the American Cancer Society showed that smokers had a 68 percent higher mortality rate than nonsmokers. In 1962, the surgeon general, Dr. Luther L. Terry, organized a panel to review the growing research and in 1964 released a 150,000-word report that seven cancer-causing compounds had been found in tobacco smoke and that there was ''a significant health hazard'' posed by smoking. After the report, calls were raised to force cigarette companies to include health warnings on the packages, on their printed advertisements and to limit such advertisements.
        As the leader of the most dynamically growing cigarette company, Mr. Cullman could hardly ignore the claims. In 1963, as Dr. Terry's experts were gathering evidence, Mr. Cullman told Philip Morris shareholders, ''There is increasing evidence that indicates factors other than smoking'' to be the causes of cancer. He said that the Tobacco Industry Research Committee, which had been set up by the cigarette manufacturers was sponsoring research in this area.
        In September 1969, The New York Times announced that it would not accept cigarette advertisements unless they contained health warnings and listed the tar and nicotine content. Mr. Cullman took out a full-page ad to protest. In it, he cited his own Congressional testimony opposing the mandatory inclusion of warnings in cigarette advertising, writing: ''The public is unquestionably cognizant of the charges that smoking may be hazardous to health. A warning in advertising cannot, therefore, be defended as necessary to inform the public. This insistence on a warning in advertising -- in addition to the existing warning on the package label -- is punitive in spirit. The right to advertise -- an essential commercial right -- is destroyed if a manufacturer is required in every advertisement to disparage his product. No businessman will spend his company's money for a self-defeating purpose.''
        When such warnings were required and after waging a losing fight against even tougher warnings later demanded by Surgeon General Everett Koop, Mr. Cullman learned to live with the kind of advertising he deplored in his testimony, especially as sales boomed. Indeed, years later, when families of cancer victims sued cigarette manufacturers, lawyers for companies including Philip Morris, took the position that the warnings on the packages and the ads spared manufacturers from any liability.
        Mr. Cullman involved Philip Morris in philanthropic endeavors, particularly in sports and the arts. He was a leader in creating the women's professional tennis tour, the Virginia Slims circuit, in 1970, which was initially sponsored by the company's cigarette brand. The company spent millions each year to back dance and art organizations like the Dance Theater of Harlem, Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Guggenheim and Metropolitan art museums as well as the Whitney; Philip Morris donated the first floor of its headquarters at 42nd Street and Park Avenue to the Whitney.
        An active conservationist, Mr. Cullman was a former trustee of the New York State Nature and Historical Preserve Trust and of the American Museum of National History. He also served on the national board of the Smithsonian Institution and was a past president of what is now the Atlantic Salmon Federation.
        In addition, he served as a member of the board of the World Wildlife Fund and director of the American Folk Art Museum.
        In August 1976, Hugh L. Carey, then governor of New York, appointed Mr. Cullman a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and he served in that capacity until November 1983.
        Mr. Cullman was elected president and director of the Whitney Young Jr. Memorial Foundation in July 1971, and served as honorary president for several years. In November 1972, he received the National Urban League's Equal Employment Opportunity Award.
        At one point in the 1960's while Mr. Cullman led the company, its products were boycotted in parts of the South where whispering campaigns labeled the Philip Morris management as racial integrationists. In fact the company did contribute to black colleges and the Urban League and had been been first among tobacco companies to recruit blacks to executives positions.
        In his memoir, Mr. Cullman mused about his legacy:
        ''I suppose that when my obituaries are written they will stress my work at Philip Morris, and I have no quarrel with that. But a person is more than his work.''
        He stressed his love of family, friends and the outdoors, and concluded, ''Thinking back about my life and looking back on the pages and pictures in this book, I realize what a lucky guy I have been.''
        Correction:  May 14, 2004, Friday  An obituary on May 1 about Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, a former chairman and chief executive of Philip Morris, misspelled the name of a subsidiary. It is Oscar Mayer, not Oscar Meyer.
      