
        Dr. Rainer Hildebrandt, a human rights activist and director of the museum near what used to be the Checkpoint Charlie crossing at the Berlin Wall, died here at his home on Friday, according to his wife, Alexandra. He was 89.
        Mr. Hildebrandt, a passionate anti-Communist activist affectionately viewed by some fellow Berliners as a relic of the cold war, opened the museum 40 years ago only a few feet from Checkpoint Charlie, which became the most infamous point at which Westerners could cross between West and East Berlin. The museum, chronicling the often fatal attempts to cross to the West and exhibiting gliders, cars and homemade boats used by escaping refugees, remains there today, 14 years after the wall fell, attracting thousands of visitors each year.
        ''His spirit will live on in the museum,'' Alexandra Hildebrandt, 39, said of her husband and his life work.
        Mr. Hildebrandt was born in Stuttgart on Dec. 14, 1914. He studied physics at his hometown university and eventually moved to Berlin, where he received a doctorate of psychology in 1942.
        Later, Mr. Hildebrandt was arrested for criticizing the Nazis and spent 17 months in prison. According to a statement issued Friday by the museum, he managed during the Nazi period to get his mother, who was Jewish, classified as half-Jewish, and thus was deemed three-quarters Aryan and escaped almost automatic dispatch to a concentration camp.
        In 1948, three years into the Soviet occupation of what became East Germany, Mr. Hildebrandt founded a human rights group, the ''Fighting Group against Inhumanity,'' with the declared aim of searching for missing German prisoners of war, and aiding political prisoners in the Soviet zone.
        After the Communists built the Berlin Wall in 1961 to keep citizens from escaping, Mr. Hildebrandt supported rescuers who smuggled people to the West.
        This work made him well known to those East Germans who, after successfully fleeing to West Berlin, often donated their tools of escape to the museum.
        More than a decade after the reunification of Germany, the Berlin Wall museum remains popular, attracting cold war history fans from the former Communist bloc as well as from the West.
        Mr. Hildebrandt is survived by Alexandra and their son Artiom, 14. Mrs. Hildebrandt declined to give the names and ages of the first and second wives, and their children, who she said all survive him.
      