
        Phil Gersh, the last of the Hollywood agents who dominated the talent business in the 1940's and 50's and represented some of the great stars and filmmakers of Hollywood's golden age, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, his family announced. He was 92.
        Mr. Gersh was one of the larger-than-life Hollywood agents, a group including Myron Selznick, Charles Feldman, Lew Wasserman, Leland Hayward and Ray Stark, who often made deals for clients with one phone call, one handshake or one trip to the golf course.
        ''He loved to get people work,'' the actor and director Richard Benjamin, who was represented by Mr. Gersh for more than 25 years, said on Tuesday. ''He was born to it.''
        Over the years Mr. Gersh represented Humphrey Bogart, David Niven, William Holden, June Allyson, Richard Burton, Lee J. Cobb, Fredric March, Gloria Grahame and James Mason. His list of directors included Joseph Losey, Don Siegel, Mark Robson, Robert Wise and Raoul Walsh, and Budd Schulberg and Julius J. Epstein were among his writer clients.
        Mr. Gersh was especially fond of telling stories about his favorite clients, like Bogart. He told The Los Angeles Times two years ago that while playing tennis with Billy Wilder in the 1950's, he implored him to cast Bogart in ''Sabrina,'' to get him ''away from 'stick 'em up, Louie-with-the-gun''' roles.
        Mr. Wilder told him, ''Phil, you're a good tennis player, but you know nothing about casting.''
        Mr. Gersh's persistence paid off when Cary Grant turned down the role of the tycoon in ''Sabrina,'' and the part was given to Bogart, who then sought Mr. Gersh's help during filming, saying the director was favoring Audrey Hepburn and William Holden.
        ''Bogey said to me, 'I don't have to put my hairpiece on, every shot is from the back of my head,''' Mr. Gersh recalled.
        Mr. Wilder promised Mr. Gersh that he would make amends.
        ''He started giving him front shots,'' Mr. Gersh recalled. ''And Bogey had to put on his hairpiece.''
        Mr. Gersh was born in New York, where his parents, Ida and Louis Gershowitz, owned a delicatessen. As a teenager, he moved to Los Angeles to join his sister, Mildred, who had married Sam Jaffe, an entertainment executive at Paramount and later an agent.
        Mr. Gersh attended the University of California, Los Angeles, worked in the prop department at Paramount and later joined his brother-in-law's agency as an office boy. He soon began representing directors and actors.
        During World War II, Mr. Gersh served in North Africa and Italy, then returned to Los Angeles to work as an agent. He eventually bought out the Jaffe agency and in the 1960's changed the name to the Phil Gersh Agency. It was renamed the Gersh Agency in 1990.
        Mr. Gersh had his disappointments as an agent. He nurtured the career of his close friend David Niven and arranged for him to be cast in ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' after prodding the producer, Mike Todd, for six months. Later Mr. Gersh arranged for Mr. Niven to star in ''Separate Tables,'' which earned him an Academy Award and resurrected his lagging career.
        But at a dinner party, a William Morris agent persuaded Niven to leave Mr. Gersh, who was crushed. Several days later the William Morris agent died of a stroke.
        ''I said to myself, 'God punished him,''' Mr. Gersh told The Los Angeles Times. Years later Mr. Niven apologized to Mr. Gersh in one of his books.
        In recent years Mr. Gersh still showed up for work at his agency, now run by his two sons, David and Robert Gersh, and Leslie Siebert.
        In the late 1950's Mr. Gersh and his wife, Beatrice, began collecting modern and contemporary American and European art; they donated part of their substantial collection to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles in 1989.
        Mr. Gersh is survived by his wife and sons, five grandchildren and a sister, Pearl Sindell of Los Angeles.
        He often said he missed the golden years of Hollywood.
        ''In the old days you dealt with producers who were creative and who were responsible financially for the picture,'' Mr. Gersh once said. ''You take a producer like Hal Wallis or the Joe Pasternaks or the Arthur Freeds, they were creative, and they were smart businessmen. They knew about filmmaking. Not like these executives today.''
      