
        Nelson Gidding, a Hollywood screenwriter who worked on classics like the Susan Hayward prison drama ''I Want to Live!,'' died on May 2 at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Gidding also wrote the scripts for the horror epic ''The Haunting'' (1963), with Julie Harris and Claire Bloom; ''The Andromeda Strain'' (1971), based on the Michael Crichton thriller about an alien virus; and the disaster spectacular ''The Hindenburg'' (1975), starring George C. Scott.
        The screenplay that he and Don Mankiewicz wrote for ''I Want to Live!'' (1958) received an Oscar nomination. It was the first of several pictures in which Mr. Gidding worked with the director Robert Wise.
        Hayward won an Oscar for best actress for her portrayal of Barbara Graham, the main character, on whose letters the film was partly based. Hers was the story of a candid B-girl who is indicted for murder, is railroaded to a conviction and is then condemned to die in the gas chamber.
        Born in Manhattan, Nelson Roosevelt Gidding was educated at Phillips Exeter Academy and in 1941 graduated from Harvard. He then served in the Army Air Forces and, flying as the navigator in a B-26, was shot down over Germany and taken prisoner.
        Toward the end of World War II he escaped, and in 1946 he published a novel, ''End Over End'' (Viking), the manuscript for which he had scribbled on bits of paper while a prisoner of war. His experience as a downed airman provided its plot.
        Mr. Gidding also wrote for television shows like ''Douglas Fairbanks Jr. Presents.'' His film credits before ''I Want to Live!'' included ''The Helen Morgan Story'' (1957) and ''Onionhead'' (1958), and he also worked on a 1983 television adaptation of ''I Want to Live!,'' starring Lindsay Wagner.
        Among his other movie credits were ''Odds Against Tomorrow'' (1959); the acclaimed ''Lisa'' (1962), with Dolores Hart; and ''Nine Hours to Rama'' (1963), the story of Naturam Godse (played by Horst Buchholz), the assassin of Mohandas K. Gandhi.
        He also taught a screenwriting class at the University of California.
        Mr. Gidding's first wife, Hildegarde Colligan Gidding, died in 1995 after 46 years of marriage. He is survived by his second wife, Chun-Ling Wang Gidding, whom he married in 1998. His survivors also include a son, Joshua W. of Huntington, N.Y., and a grandson.
      