
        Yinka Dare, a 7-foot, 265-pound center who was the Nets' surprise first-round choice in the 1994 N.B.A. draft, then became a symbol of the franchise's misfortunes, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 32.
        Dare had a heart attack at his home, said his brother, Michael, who lived with him in Englewood.
        Dare (pronounced dar-RAY), a native of Nigeria, was chosen by the Nets with the 14th pick over all after his sophomore season at George Washington University, which he led into the N.C.A.A. tournament in both his seasons. Dare had averaged in double digits as a scorer and rebounder and was envisioned by the Nets as an eventual shot-blocking force. But the Nets had never given him a workout and acknowledged that he was a long-term project.
        Willis Reed, the former star center of the Knicks who was the Nets' general manager at the time, and Paul Silas, a Nets assistant coach who had been a fine N.B.A. player, were on hand to tutor Dare.
        ''He is quick off his feet, a little bit like Hakeem Olajuwon,'' Nets Coach Butch Beard said in July 1994, comparing Dare to the Houston Rockets' star center, also a native of Nigeria.
        But Dare, signed to a multiyear, multimillion-dollar contract, made virtually no contribution to the Nets.
        He played in only one game in his rookie season before undergoing arthroscopic surgery to remove loose cartilage behind his kneecaps. He appeared in only 110 games, averaging 2.1 points, before being traded in February 1998 to the Orlando Magic, who quickly released him.
        Dare's failure to make it in the N.B.A. was among the numerous problems faced by the Nets over a long stretch. In the three full seasons that Dare was with the Nets, they did not make the playoffs, and in the next four seasons, they did not win a playoff game.
        In addition to his brother, Michael, Dare is survived by his parents, Gabriel and Joan Dare, and two sisters, Tobi and Christina Dare, of Nigeria.
        ''I always thought he was going to be the next Hakeem Olajuwon,'' the Nets' star guard, Jason Kidd, said at the team's practice yesterday, recalling the time he appeared in a high-school all-star tournament with Dare. ''Unfortunately, his N.B.A. career never took off.''
        The Nets' Kerry Kittles said yesterday: ''He was a big guy, strong and physical, but he was very raw and unpolished. He could have used some more time to develop his skills. At this level, you have to come in ready to play, and he never got that early break to learn a little bit first.''
      