
        LeRoy Myers, a dancer who was one of the last of the Copasetics veteran tap ensemble, died on April 26 in Manhattan, members of the troupe said. He was 84.
        Born in North Philadelphia, Mr. Myers began his professional career as a child, singing with Kiddies' Hour, a black amateur radio program on WPEN. He learned to tap on the streets and formed his first act, ''Pops and LeRoy,'' at the age of 15. He and his partner, William Rogers, learned about tap dance and performing by hanging around theaters and watching singers and dancers. In an attempt to stand out as a dancer with a more varied act, Mr. Myers joined Sinclair Rogers, a young trumpet player. They performed together as ''Sinclair and LeRoy,'' an act featuring dancing, singing, impersonation, comedy and ventriloquism. After World War II Mr. Myers performed with another tap dancer, James Walker, known as Chuckles.
        Mr. Myers continued to dance into the late 1980's but became drawn into management after the death of Bill Robinson, the famous Bojangles, in 1949. A tap club was formed, calledthe Copasetics after ''everything is copasetic,'' Robinson's favorite term of approval. The original membership included Billy Strayhorn, Charles Cook, Honi Coles and Cholly Atkins. Mr. Myers served as its president for the first two years. When opportunities for tap performing began to dwindle by the end of the 1950's, Mr. Myers worked as a theater master of ceremonies, a bartender and a postal worker.
        He also served as the road manager for the original Supremes and managed B. B. King until the late 1970's before acquiringthe Wonder Gardens, a nightclub in Atlantic City, which he sold in 2001. He was the business manager for the Copasetics tap ensemble through the 1980's. He also was an avid booster of Harlem, writing letters to politicians and producers urging attention be paid to the area.
        In comments at Mr. Myers's funeral at the Showman's Lounge in Harlem, where he often performed, the former Manhattan borough president Percy Sutton described Mr. Myers as a true organizer. ''He was the one who arranged all the funerals, boat rides, Easter breakfasts, Copasetics balls in the autumn,'' the tap dancer Jane Goldberg later recalled. ''LeRoy was the one everyone called for information.''
        Mr. Myers is survived by his sister, Barbara Gibson, and his brother, Walter, both of Philadelphia.
      