
        Arnold O. Beckman, a chemist whose invention in 1934 of a device to measure the sourness of lemons led to a lucrative career developing accurate and easy-to-use scientific instruments, died Tuesday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 104 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif.
        Dr. Beckman financed research at institutions and universities across the country, notably the California Institute of Technology, where he received his doctorate and taught.
        His death was announced by Beckman Coulter of Fullerton, Calif., the successor to a business he started in 1935 as National Technical Laboratories. The company now employs 10,000 people and produces more than $2 billion a year worth of instruments and supplies for biological and clinical diagnostic laboratories.
        In 1977 he and his wife formed the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, which has given more than $400 million for scientific research and education. In the mid-1980's, he was the biggest private benefactor of American scientific research. In 2001, the foundation gave away more than $23 million. Grants went chiefly to nonprofit institutions engaged in chemical and biological research.
        Much of the foundation's money has benefited Caltech, where Dr. Beckman was chairman emeritus of the board of trustees. The foundation financed, among other things, an auditorium, the interdisciplinary Beckman Institute and research on the causes of photochemical smog.
        Dr. Beckman's philanthropy also created the Beckman Laser Institute at the University of California, Irvine; the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Engineering at Stanford University; the Center for the History of Chemistry at the University of Pennsylvania; and the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology at the University of Illinois.
        Dr. Beckman's first important invention was the pH meter, which provided laboratories with a simple and speedy device to measure acidity and alkalinity.
        Acidity can speed or slow chemical reactions in industrial manufacturing, even change what is produced by the reactions. Yet chemists had no easy and accurate way to measure acidity until, at the request of a friend whose job was to monitor the sourness of California lemons, Dr. Beckman built his first pH meter.
        Housed in a walnut box 12 inches wide, 8 inches deep and 9 inches high, the device measured electrical current flowing into a glass electrode immersed in a chemical solution. The amount of current told the solution's acidity. In 1935, Dr. Beckman started a company to build and sell pH meters.
        Five years later, Dr. Beckman developed another groundbreaking instrument, the spectrophotometer, which measured the amount of ultraviolet light absorbed by a substance. Vitamin A, for instance, absorbs ultraviolet light, and the photometer could measure within minutes, with almost perfect accuracy, the amount of vitamin A in a food. Until then, vitamin A levels were determined by feeding the food to rats for several weeks and then measuring the strength of their tailbones.
        Both devices were expensive, but they revolutionized the chemical laboratory by replacing laborious procedures with simple electronic instruments. Since then, the devices have been complemented by analytical tools like lasers, nuclear magnetic resonance, chromatography and mass spectrometry.
        Arnold Orville Beckman was born on April 10, 1900, in Cullom, Ill., the son of a blacksmith. He became interested in science at an early age, when he experimented with red cabbage juice, lemons, baking soda and vinegar in his mother's kitchen.
        He received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1922, and a master's in 1923, both at the University of Illinois. In 1928, he earned a doctorate in photochemistry at Caltech, where he taught until 1940.
        In 1982, Dr. Beckman merged his company with SmithKline to form the SmithKline Beckman Corporation. He was elected to the SmithKline Beckman board that year and became chairman in 1984.
        SmithKline eventually became part of GlaxoSmithKline, based in Britain, while Beckman Instruments spun off. In 1997, it acquired the Coulter Corporation, makers of hematology instruments. Dr. Beckman became chairman emeritus in 1988.
        He received the National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology.
        Dr. Beckman's wife, Mabel Meinzer Beckman, died in 1989 after 64 years of marriage. He is survived by a son, Arnold S. of Asotin, Wash.; a daughter, Patricia Beckman of Newport Beach, Calif.; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      