
        Perry B. Duryea, a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died on Sunday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82.
        His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died about 4:30 p.m. from injuries he suffered in a car accident near his Montauk home last Tuesday.
        Mr. Duryea, a Republican, was first elected to the State Assembly in 1960 and, with a family history in state politics, swiftly rose to the upper echelon of leadership and held on.
        He became the Assembly minority leader in 1966. He would remain a prominent figure in the Assembly until 1978, using his command positions to influence the pace and contents of legislation, keeping the ranks in line and doling out assignments and appointments.
        He was speaker from 1969 through 1973, and minority leader again from 1974 to 1978. (He reverted to minority leadership after the Watergate scandal deprived the Republicans of their majority in the Assembly.)
        Ruddy, silver-haired and standing 6-foot-2, Perry Belmont Duryea Jr. -- he dropped the junior after his father's death -- was born in Montauk. His was a family of lobstermen who controlled Perry Duryea & Son, a Montauk company of seafood wholesalers. Throughout his years in elective office, he remained a familiar figure in Montauk, often returning home to tend to the family concern, the well-tailored model of a successful businessman.
        It was a business that was acquired by his father in the early 1920's. Father and son shared an interest in politics, since the senior Mr. Duryea was a state senator.
        The younger Mr. Duryea forged close relations in Albany with Robert Moses and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, and pushed through legislation that expanded state parks and the state university system. Mr. Duryea also headed the Long Island State Park Commission and championed construction of the Long Island Expressway and the Sunrise Highway extension.
        ''I never thought that the political life was supposed to be easy,'' he said in a 1977 interview, the year before running unsuccessfully for governor against Hugh L. Carey, the incumbent Democrat.
        ''Little in life is simple, especially politics, with its crosscurrents, reactions and personalities,'' he said.
        Mr. Duryea's political ascendancy was not without setbacks. He was indicted by a grand jury in 1973 for election law violations.
        The charges were later dropped, and Mr. Duryea received unusual support among his colleagues, with both Republican and Democratic legislators rising to his defense. But the episode helped sidetrack whatever aspirations he nursed at the time to succeed a fellow Republican, Mr. Rockefeller, in the governor's mansion in 1974.
        Instead, Mr. Rockefeller anointed his lieutenant governor, Malcolm Wilson, when he moved to Washington as Gerald Ford's vice president, and Mr. Wilson lost the governorship to Mr. Carey, the Democratic candidate that year in the aftermath of Watergate.
        Mr. Duryea was considered a conservative, but one with a mixed legislative record. He worked hard for environmental measures, a long-standing concern of his, even though he seldom came out in front on such issues.
        He wound up casting the tie-breaking vote to legalize abortion in New York, a risky move for a Republican at the time. On the other hand, he remained highly skeptical of the efforts made by others, like Mr. Rockefeller, to stave off bankruptcy for New York City in the 1970's.
        He left office after losing the 1978 election to Mr. Carey. But Mr. Carey, who had a home on the eastern end of Long Island, maintained a long friendship with Mr. Duryea.
        Mr. Duryea graduated from Colgate University and served in the United States Naval Transport Service as a plane commander during World War II, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander.
        Mr. Duryea's son said in a 1997 interview that his father ''never left Montauk again'' after the losing the race for governor. Once out of politics, he remained active in the family's lobster business and restaurant, as well as in Long Island banking.
        Besides his son, Mr. Duryea is survived by his wife, Marie Therese Duryea of Montauk; a daughter, Lynn Duryea of Huntsville, Tex.; and two grandchildren.
        The six-story State Office Building in Hauppauge, built in 1970, was rededicated to bear his name in October. ''I entered the public arena with the attitude that I could make a difference,'' Mr. Duryea said on that occasion, joined by family and Gov. George E. Pataki.
        Correction:  January 17, 2004, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Perry B. Duryea, a former speaker of the New York State Legislature, misstated the sequence of events in Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's accession to the vice presidency. Rockefeller, whom Mr. Duryea had hoped to succeed, resigned the governorship in December 1973. He was nominated for the vice presidency by President Gerald R. Ford in August 1974 and confirmed in December. He did not leave Albany directly for Washington.
      