
        Dr. Jacob A. Arlow, a former president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute whose work helped form the core of modern analytic thinking, died on Friday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 91.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his son Seth.
        Dr. Arlow, who practiced until he was 88, was best known for advancing the concepts that unconscious fantasies heavily influence how people perceive the world around them and that repressed wishes must be explained and understood, not simply uncovered.
        ''Fantasy activity, conscious or unconscious, is a constant feature of mental life,'' he wrote in a 1969 paper. ''The private world of daydreams is characteristic for each individual, representing his secret rebellion against reality.''
        Dr. Arlow's landmark book, ''Psychoanalytic Concepts and the Structural Theory'' (1964), expanded the Freudian canon that the goal of psychoanalysis is to make the unconscious conscious.
        Decades earlier, Freud's daughter, Anna, had added a layer to structural theory when she argued that a variety of defense mechanisms could be buried in the unconscious. Dr. Arlow and his co-author, Dr. Charles Brenner, carried the concept further, asserting that patients, once they had been made aware of a particular mental barrier, also needed to understand what it was intended to keep out.
        ''Under Freud's first theory, you would think that forcing the patient to see what he's not conscious of would be therapeutic,'' said Dr. Leon Hoffman, director of the Pacella Parent Child Center at the New York Psychoanalytic Society and a former student of Dr. Arlow. ''But someone who keeps losing his job for unconscious reasons, for example, also needs to know if there's some guilt about succeeding, or a wish to hurt himself.''
        The book became widely popular and helped catapult its authors to the forefront of their field. With the help of colleagues, many of whom had arrived in the United States from Europe after World War II, Dr. Arlow and Dr. Brenner shaped the emerging field of modern psychoanalysis.
        ''The general acceptance of structural theory as being significantly important had really just begun in the 50's,'' said Dr. Brenner, a training and supervising analyst at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, and one of the leading analysts today.
        Dr. Arlow soon shifted his focus, writing several papers that became well known for arguing that the boundary between latent fantasies and reality was not as clear as Freud had earlier contended.
        Awareness and fantasy, he wrote in a 1969 paper, are intertwined. Much like a Rorschach test, he suggested, reality is interpreted differently from one person to the next, influenced by personal experiences.
        ''The stream of perceptual data from the external world which passes before the outer eye is paralleled by a stream of perceptual data from the inner world which passes before the inner eye,'' he wrote in the paper called ''Fantasy, Memory and Reality Testing.''
        Dr. Arlow's work on the role of repressed fantasies in everyday life became a centerpiece of his career. In another 1969 paper, he demonstrated how fantasy barges into awareness by describing a patient on his way to a session one day. The patient, who was still seething over an earlier altercation with someone, thought he had noticed out of the corner of his eye a sign with ''murder'' written in bold red letters. When he looked again, he realized it said ''Maeder,'' the name of a shop.
        It was a sign that the patient had seen countless times before, Dr. Arlow wrote.
        ''The role of fantasy was accepted by everybody,'' said Dr. Milton H. Horowitz, a former president of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and a clinical professor of psychiatry at New York University. ''It became part of the curriculum of every psychoanalytic institute; not just in America, but around the world.''
        Born in 1912 in Brooklyn, Jacob A. Arlow earned his undergraduate and medical degrees from New York University and did his training at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, which was founded in 1931 and was the first psychonalytic training institute in the United States. Dr. Arlow was a member of his field's most prominent organizations, including the American Psychoanalytic Association and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute; he was president of each in the 60's.
        He was the first Turner professor of psychoanalysis at Columbia. He also taught at N.Y.U., Albert Einstein College of Medicine and several other schools around the country, training generations of today's pre-eminent analysts.
        His wife of more than 60 years, Alice Arlow, died in 2003.
        In addition to Dr. Seth Arlow, of Medina, Wash., he is survived by two more sons, Michael Arlow of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and Allan Arlow of Portland, Ore.; and seven grandchildren.
      