
        Dr. Paul F. Wehrle, a pediatrician and researcher who helped diagnose and devise treatments for polio, smallpox and other infectious diseases, died May 11 in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was complications following a long illness, said a son, Dr. Malcolm Wehrle of La Canada, Calif.
        In the 1950's, Paul Wehrle worked on clinical trials of the Salk polio vaccine. In 1961, he became chairman of the department of pediatrics at the medical school of the University of Southern California, where he remained until 1988.
        From 1969 to 1970, he took a year's leave from the university to join the World Health Organization's efforts in eradicating smallpox. In that campaign, he traveled throughout the Third World, lecturing on the disease and vaccinating people likely to be exposed to it.
        In that year, he also conducted a study of an outbreak of smallpox in a German hospital that helped establish that virus particles of the disease could be carried some distance through the air to infect other people, said a colleague, Dr. John Leedom.
        ''To this day, Wehrle's study remains one of the best demonstrations of the airborne transmission of smallpox,'' said Dr. Leedom, an emeritus professor of medicine at U.S.C.'s medical school.
        Paul Francis Wehrle graduated from the University of Arizona and received his medical degree from Tulane University in 1947. He taught at the State University of New York Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse, where he was acting chairman of the microbiology department from 1959 to 1961.
        Dr. Wehrle was a member of the surgeon general's committee on immunizations and also advised the United States Public Health Service about health effects from air pollution.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Beth Wehrle of San Clemente; his son Malcolm and three other sons, Dr. Paul A. Wehrle of San Antonio, Dr. Karl A. Wehrle of San Diego, and Robert L. Wehrle of Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Ellen Meehan of San Gabriel, Calif.; and 12 grandchildren.
      