
        Walter Beinecke Jr., who combined good business with historic preservation on the island of Nantucket by investing in the saving and enhancing of the traditional architecture of its old whaling port, died on Sunday at the Nantucket home of his daughter Ann Oliver. He was 86.
        The cause was myasthenia gravis, a muscle disease, Ellen Durckel Vestewig, his sister-in-law, said.
        Mr. Beinecke, an heir to the S&H Green Stamp fortune, had the notion of reviving a deteriorating Nantucket by appealing to wealthy tourists. He did this by buying much of the town's waterfront, then fixing it up, building by building, filling in the holes with recreations and reproductions of 18th-century architecture.
        Nantucket had been declining almost since the time the fictional Ahab steered the Pequod out of its harbor in the mid-19th-century in search of Moby-Dick. After World War II, the wharfs, shops and maritime buildings fell yet more steeply into decay, even as more and more people came to the island.
        But Mr. Beinecke, who grew up loving the salty summers of Nantucket, came to the belief that the swarms of new visitors spent nearly enough money to justify the damage they were doing.
        His frankly elitist approach, as he told Time magazine in 1968, was to attract fewer people who would buy six postcards and two hot dogs and more who would rent a hotel room and buy a couple of sports coats.
        The spruced-up buildings, which could attract higher-rent retailers, were part of the strategy. So was Mr. Beinecke's successful effort to restrict ferries to the island unless they agreed to carry fewer passengers for higher fare, as well as his battle for a building code banning high-rises.
        A trust he set up in 1957 poured millions into restoring churches, houses and landmarks.
        Mr. Beinecke, who lived in Austin, Tex., in his later years, told The New York Times in 1987 that he was not interested in preservation for preservation's sake: he wanted to make a profit. He and his partners took advantage of tax rules on depreciation and historic preservation and used the Nantucket properties to shelter income from other businesses.
        Just as he hoped, property values increased greatly. He bought buildings for as little as $30,000, according to Money magazine in 2001, and sold his properties in 1987 to the First Winthrop Corporation of Boston for $55 million.
        His Nantucket improvements were not always appreciated when they were happening, because he had a monopoly on most of Nantucket's businesses. Slogans like ''No Man Is an Island'' and ''Ban the B'' were heard in the late 1960's.
        And although he won architectural and preservation awards, not all critics were charmed with his recreations of old styles. Paul Goldberger, The Times architecture critic, in 1979 called the effect ''overly cute.''
        But after Mr. Beinecke and his partners sold their interests to First Winthrop, at least some Nantucket residents missed having an individual to whom they could complain.
        ''Everybody griped about Walter Beinecke, but he was a real person,'' Steve Sheppard, a year-round Nantucket resident, said in an interview with The Times in 1988. ''All of a sudden, he sold out to a faceless conglomerate.''
        Walter Beinecke Jr. was born on Feb. 20, 1918, in Manhattan, and left school at 15 to join the Merchant Marine. After a year, he returned from his voyages intending to finish high school but he never did. He did not attend college.
        He was a salesman and then a junior executive for American Tobacco; worked for the Kaiser-Frazer Company, an automobile maker; spent a brief time in the United States Army Corps of Engineers and worked for 12 years for S&H Green Stamps.
        Despite not going to college, Mr. Beinecke contributed to the extensive Beinecke family gifts to Yale. The most renowned of these is the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. As part of his extensive philanthropy, he also contributed generously to Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., where he was a trustee.
        Mr. Beinecke is survived by three daughters from his first marriage, to Jean Burrell, who died. They are Ms. Oliver, of Columbia, S.C., and Nantucket; Deborah Beale of Boston and Nantucket; and Barbara Spitler of Tiffin, Ohio, and Nantucket. He is also survived by a son from his second marriage, to the former Maryann Hamachek of Waldoboro, Me. He is Walter Beinecke III of Manchester, Mass.
        His third wife, the former Joy Anne Dewey, died in 1989, leaving him four stepdaughters, Melissa Gilbert of Dover, Mass.; Alexandra Dewey of Pelham, Mass; Anni Dewey of Amherst, Mass.; and Sarah Windsor of Hope Valley, R.I. He is also survived by his wife, the former Bridgette Durckell, and two stepsons, James and Paul Schleicher of Austin.
        ''I always say about Nantucket that after a day you can throw away your watch and after a week your calendar,'' he said to Life. ''It's murderous trying to get here, but once you arrive you never want to leave.''
      