
        Henry Ries, a Berlin-born photographer who fled Hitler and returned to take evocative pictures of postwar Germany, most memorably his images of the Berlin airlift in 1948 and 1949, died on Monday at his home in Ghent, N.Y. He was 86.
        Wanda Ries, his wife and only immediate survivor, announced the death.
        Mr. Ries's most famous photograph shows an incoming airplane over Tempelhof, the Berlin airport. The flight was one of 278,228 made over 15 months by the United States, Britain and France to supply West Berlin with food and other essentials after the Soviet Union cut off access to the city, then surrounded by Soviet-controlled territory.
        Mr. Ries, who was working for The New York Times, reduced the tense showdown between great powers to the image of children on a hillside watching a plane gliding in. The knowing viewer might feel the pilot was about to throw out a handful of chocolates, as often happened. The picture was made into a commemorative postage stamp in 1998, the 50th anniversary of the airlift.
        In other pictures he took at the time he strove to capture the mundane life of people, particularly children, battered by history but trying to live normally. In one, children enjoy an amusement park ride in the shadow of the bombed-out Reichstag building.
        The United States government staged an exhibition of Mr. Ries's photographs in May 1949, in the last phase of the airlift. Visitors were asked to vote on their favorite picture: it showed a woman ironing in the few short hours when electricity was available in the middle of the night, with the family sound asleep in the same room.
        In 1950 Mr. Ries (pronounced REES) collected some of his German pictures in a book on which he collaborated with his first wife, Ann Stringer, a writer. Ms. Stringer, from whom Mr. Ries was later divorced, took down people's own words to describe what they were doing when the photos were taken.
        Heinz Ries preferred to be called Henry or Hank in the United States. He was born on Sept. 22, 1917. According to an interview with The Times Union of Albany, his father ran a linen factory, and his mother committed suicide when he was 13. His boyhood job was fixing radios.
        A biography prepared by his friend Werner A. Perger recounts that Mr. Ries, a Jew, fled to the United States in 1937 but was sent back because he lacked proper immigration papers. He finally made it in January 1938. He sold vacuum cleaners and worked in a garment factory as he became more captivated by photography.
        He joined the Army in 1943 and became an aerial photographer in Asia before working in intelligence in Europe. In preparation for the Nuremberg trials, he translated the files of the SS chief, Heinrich Himmler, according to a biography prepared by another of Mr. Ries's friends, Stephen Benson.
        Mr. Ries next worked as a photographer for the United States government in Berlin, before signing on with The Times in 1947. In 1951 he transferred to The Times's headquarters in New York, where he worked until 1955.
        He left the Times to open an advertising studio in Manhattan, where he developed a technique to create unusual visual effects by moving both camera and the object being photographed in minutely choreographed phases. In 2003 the German government awarded him the Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit, its highest award for citizens of other countries.
      