
        Harold H. Harmatz, who owned Ratner's, the Lower East Side kosher dairy restaurant, and who, in the 1960's, helped lead the successful fight against Robert Moses' plan to built an expressway across Lower Manhattan, died last Tuesday at an assisted-care home in Melville, N.Y. He was 91.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Robert Harmatz.
        Mr. Harmatz began helping to run Ratner's in 1944 with his father, Jacob, who opened the restaurant in 1905. Harold Harmatz took on all operations in the mid-1950's and continued working at the restaurant until it was closed in 2002 to make way for the expansion of Lansky Lounge, which Robert Harmatz and his brother, Fred, opened in the rear of Ratner's in 1997.
        Harold Harmatz's days were spent worrying about such things as onion rolls, blintzes and the restaurant's staff of famously no-nonsense waiters. But in 1960's, he turned to his training as a lawyer and longtime experience as a community activist and became an outspoken leader of the opposition to plans to build an elevated expressway connecting the Williamsburg Bridge to the Holland Tunnel. Mr. Harmatz, the chairman of the East Side Chamber of Commerce, said that such an expressway would ''bisect and dissect'' the Lower East Side, much as Moses had already done to East Tremont with the Cross Bronx Expressway, and result in traffic congestion, pollution and the demolition of many buildings.
        When Moses, then the chairman of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, made a public prediction in 1964 that the expressway would be built, Mr. Harmatz released a statement saying that New Yorkers deserved to know whether their city ''is run by Mayor Wagner and its other responsible elected officials, or by the dark eminence of Robert Moses.''
        He and other community leaders and residents continued to vigorously oppose Moses' proposal. The controversy lasted through much of the 1960's. In 1969, the proposal for the expressway was finally defeated by the city's Board of Estimate.
        Mr. Harmatz devoted his life to Ratner's, which was, by the time it closed, one of the city's oldest family-owned restaurants and perhaps its oldest kosher one.
        By the mid-1950's Ratner's was serving 1,200 people for Sunday brunch. In 1958, Mr. Harmatz expanded the restaurant to accommodate 344 diners and kept it open 24 hours a day through 1975.
        Mr. Harmatz expanded production by enlarging the kitchen and buying special revolving ovens; soon 10,000 onion rolls were being baked on Sundays to serve, sell with takeout orders, and supply to local bakeries, Robert Harmatz said. The family began selling menu items like blintzes, latkes and soups to supermarkets, and Mr. Harmatz opened two Paramount cafeterias, one on Delancey Street, another on Kings Highway in Brooklyn.
        ''Once he took over from his father, he really put his own stamp on Ratner's,'' Robert Harmatz said. ''He always wanted it to change with the times.''
        Jacob Harmatz opened Ratner's with his brother-in-law Alex Ratner in 1905 on Pitt Street, serving meatless kosher meals to the area's large Jewish population. To name the restaurant, the two men flipped a coin. Mr. Ratner won the toss, In 1918 he sold his share to Mr. Harmatz and moved to California. The same year, Mr. Harmatz moved the restaurant to 138 Delancey Street.
        Ratner's attracted stars from local Yiddish theaters and from Broadway, including Al Jolson and Fanny Brice, as well as Jewish mobsters like Bugsy Siegel and Meyer Lansky. Other celebrities and politicians who frequented the restaurant over the years included John V. Lindsay, Elia Kazan, Robert F. Kennedy and the four-term governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, who thought that the blintzes brought good luck and insisted on serving them to guests at his election-eve dinner at the restaurant.
        Mr. Harmatz grew up in the restaurant, helping out as a young child along with his four sisters. He grew furious one evening when he learned that Bugsy Siegel had driven his sister Natalie home, according to Robert Harmatz.
        ''He told her, 'They're our customers, but you stay away from people like that,' '' he said.
        Many waiters and managers worked for Ratner's for 40 or 50 years, Robert Harmatz said, and Harold Harmatz afforded them a wide latitude of attitude.
        ''My father much preferred an insulting waiter with a sense of humor over a polished waiter,'' Robert Harmatz said.
        Harold Harmatz received a bachelor's degree and a law degree from New York University and worked for several years as a real estate lawyer. But in 1944, his father asked him to help him run the restaurant, and within a few years he had taken over operations.
        Mr. Harmatz knew many customers by name and was known for handing bowls of soup and onion rolls to hungry and homeless people in the neighborhood.
        As the Lower East Side's population of Jewish immigrants died or moved away, the restaurant's popularity faded. Hoping to attract a new generation of customers, Mr. Harmatz allowed his sons, Robert and Fred, to open Lansky Lounge.
        Besides his sons, Mr. Harmatz is survived by his wife of 60 years, Mildred; four grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
        Correction:  May 22, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on May 3 about Harold H. Harmatz, an owner of Ratner's restaurant on the Lower East Side, omitted the names of former co-owners. They were the brothers Max and Louis Zankel, who shared ownership for many years with one of the restaurant's founders, Jacob Harmatz. They were succeeded by Max Zankel's son, Harry, who died in 1998.
      