
        Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor who was fired by the Nixon White House in the ''Saturday Night Massacre'' in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Brooksville, Maine.
        He was 92 and died of natural causes, his wife, Phyllis, said.
        Mr. Cox, a former solicitor general of the United States, was an expert on labor law and the author of several books on legal matters. He often took leaves from the faculty of Harvard Law School to serve in federal government posts. In 1980 he became chairman of Common Cause, the public affairs lobby, and held that position until 1992.
        Mr. Cox took over the Watergate investigation on May 18, 1973, and was dismissed five months later on President Richard M. Nixon's orders.
        The highest federal position Mr. Cox held was solicitor general, representing the government before the Supreme Court. He was appointed to the position, the third highest in the Department of Justice, by President John F. Kennedy. He had previously served as a speechwriter and adviser to Mr. Kennedy in the Senate and in his campaign for the presidency.
        Mr. Cox's dramatic but relatively brief time as the special Watergate prosecutor came about largely because of his friendship with a former law student, Elliot L. Richardson.
        In late April 1973, Nixon announced the forced departure from his administration of four top- level appointees after they were swept up in the Watergate affair.
        The scandals had begun with the June 1972 burglary of the Democratic National Committee's offices in the Watergate office complex at the height of the president's re-election campaign.
        Among those forced to resign was Attorney General Richard G. Kleindienst. Nixon chose Mr. Richardson to succeed Mr. Kleindienst, specifying that ''if he should consider it appropriate, he has the authority to name a special supervising prosecutor for matters arising out of'' the Watergate case.
        Nixon had hoped to avoid having such a prosecutor. But as the price for Mr. Richardson's confirmation, the Democratic-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee insisted that the new attorney general name a special prosecutor.
        As the special prosecutor, Mr. Cox wound up in a confrontation with the White House, where Nixon appointees suspected he was out to get the president.
        Over five months Mr. Cox built a Watergate prosecution staff of energetic young lawyers. White House officials complained that most were Kennedy Democrats.
        Mr. Cox quickly widened his investigation into a number of areas, including reports of suspicious financial dealings among members and former members of the Nixon administration.
        The ''Saturday Night Massacre'' resulted from Mr. Cox's efforts to force the White House to turn over the tapes of Oval Office conversations that ultimately proved that there had been a conspiracy to cover up the administration's ties to the Watergate burglary.
        When Nixon resisted surrendering the tapes, Mr. Cox took the matter to the courts, which ruled in his favor. But Nixon would not give in, and he ordered Mr. Cox to stop pursuing the tapes. Refusing to do so, Mr. Cox said that he was bound by conscience not to capitulate and that he would ask the courts to hold the president in contempt.
        Within a few hours, the ''massacre'' ensued. Nixon ordered Mr. Richardson to dismiss Mr. Cox, but the attorney general refused, saying that as a matter of principle he would not renege on his promise to the Judiciary Committee. Mr. Richardson resigned and the deputy attorney general, William D. Ruckelshaus, was told to fire Mr. Cox. Mr. Ruckelshaus refused and was himself dismissed. Finally, Mr. Cox was dismissed by Robert H. Bork, the solicitor general.
        The public outcry was so intense that in the end Nixon was forced to turn over the Oval Office tapes, marking the beginning of the end of his presidency.
        Born May 17, 1912, in Plainfield, N.J., Archibald Cox Jr. was the son of Archibald and Francis Perkins Cox. His well-to-do father was a patent lawyer who sent him to St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., from which Mr. Cox graduated in 1930. At Harvard he majored in economics and American history, graduating in 1934.
        Mr. Cox then entered Harvard Law School and graduated magna cum laude in 1937. He later spent a year as law clerk to Judge Learned Hand of the United States Court of Appeals in New York.
        In 1941, after three years as an associate with a Boston law firm, Mr. Cox joined the staff of the National Defense Mediation Board in Washington. He also worked in the solicitor general's office and as an associate solicitor in the Department of Labor.
        He joined the Harvard Law faculty in 1945 and at various times served as Royall Professor of Law, the oldest endowed chair at the school; as Willston Professor of Law; and as Carl M. Loeb University Professor. He also taught at Boston University.
        As a law professor Mr. Cox seemed to make a studied attempt to run his life with courtly, Yankee good humor. His crew-cut hair, button-down shirts and skinny bow ties were personal trademarks, as was his fondness for driving to work in a pickup truck from his farm in Wayland, Mass. He also had a summer home in Maine.
        A gaunt 6-footer who wore three-piece suits, Mr. Cox was often described as ''ramrod straight,'' not only because of his bearing but also because of his personality.
        In the classroom he had his detractors. He was invariably admired for his scholarship, but his lectures in labor, Constitutional and administrative law were at times criticized as ''soporific'' and ''dry.''
        ''There's no question that he's in complete command of his subject,'' one student wrote in a critique. ''But he's not a performer in the classroom. There's no sparkle at all.''
        In July 1952, President Harry S. Truman appointed Mr. Cox to head a new 18-member Wage Stabilization Board, which faced a backlog of 12,000 cases. But after only four months, Mr. Cox angrily resigned after the president overruled a board decision.
        The board had voted to lower a wage increase, to $1.50 a day from $1.90, that John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers had negotiated for his coal miners. Mr. Cox returned to Harvard.
        Over the years, Mr. Cox gained a reputation for drafting labor legislation. He wrote an anti-injunction bill for labor in Massachusetts in 1950, and he helped arbitrate disputes in the machine-tool and textile industries in New England, as well as nationwide disputes in the railroad industry.
        After serving as solicitor general, Mr. Cox returned to Harvard in 1966, just as student unrest was beginning there and on campuses around the nation. At Harvard he played a major role in negotiating with student dissidents and antiwar demonstrators. In 1968 he was named chairman of a five-member committee to inquire into disturbances at Columbia University.
        After his dismissal as the Watergate prosecutor in 1973, Mr. Cox returned to Harvard, where he taught constitutional law.
        Mr. Cox, who became a professor emeritus at Harvard in 1984, was the author of several books, including ''Law and the National Labor Policy'' (1960); ''Civil Rights, the Constitution and the Courts'' (1967); ''Freedom of Expression'' (1981); and ''The Court and the Constitution'' (1987).
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1927, Mr. Cox is survived by three children, Sarah, of Brooksville, Maine, Archibald Jr., of Markleville, Ind., and Phyllis, of Denver; and by several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        Philip Heymann, a fellow law professor at Harvard who worked under Mr. Cox in the Watergate prosecution and was a close associate for more than 40 years, said in an interview yesterday that the legacy of Watergate had made Mr. Cox into a revered figure among lawyers, scholars and even, for a time, the general public.
        ''He was idolized,'' Mr. Heymann said. ''I would be an airplane with him and the attendant would walk up and ask to seat him in the first-class section.''
        ''It was just a fact of life for him,'' Mr. Heymann said, ''and he didn't let it go to his head.''
        Correction:  June 3, 2004, Thursday  An obituary in some copies on Sunday about Archibald Cox, the legal scholar and special Watergate prosecutor, misstated the year of his marriage. It was 1937, not 1927. (The date was correct in a reprinted version on Monday.)
        Correction:  June 16, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary in late editions on May 30 about Archibald Cox, a legal scholar and former Watergate prosecutor, included an erroneous reference to his work in Washington during World War II and misidentified the secretary of state during that time in some copies. He was never an assistant to Thomas K. Finletter, who was the assistant secretary of state, not the secretary. The secretary was Cordell Hull.
        Correction:  June 29, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary in late editions on May 30 about Archibald Cox, the legal scholar and former Watergate prosecutor, referred erroneously in some copies to his wartime work in Washington. He did not serve as an assistant to the secretary of state. (The obituary also misidentified the secretary in office at that time. He was Cordell Hull; Thomas K. Finletter was an assistant secretary.)
      