
        Reginald Harold Jones, who guided General Electric in the 1970's through a phase of managerial changes and shifting focus toward new materials like plastics, died Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family reported.
        He was 86.
        Born in Britain and raised in the United States, Mr. Jones was considered the model of the button-down, sharp-pencil corporate executive. He led the General Electric Company as chief executive and chairman from 1973 to 1981. Following Fred J. Borch (1967 to 1972), he was the seventh man to lead the company, which is based in Fairfield, Conn. He, in turn, was succeeded by John F. Welch Jr. (1981 to 2001), who would foster a more abrasive, earnings-oriented period for the company.
        Still, it was Mr. Jones who sought out and groomed Mr. Welch, who as a younger man marshaled the forces of technology, production and marketing that catapulted G.E. into a leading position among plastics manufacturers during the Jones years.
        Over all the company fared well under Mr. Jones. Yearly revenues more than doubled, to $22 billion from $10 billion, and earnings rose to $1.4 billion from $572 million. His personal attention to world trade was reflected in an intensifying thrust into foreign markets.
        Per share earnings increased at a compound annual rate of 12.2 percent a year from 1972 to 1981, when he retired. (The G.E. stock price nonetheless declined 21 percent over the nine years, a drop attributed to investor disenchantment with stocks generally, rather than the company's operations.)
        In 1980, U.S. News & World Report ranked Mr. Jones as the most influential man in business. Among his platforms were the chairmanships of the Business Council and the President's Export Council in 1979 to 1980, and the co-chairmanship of the Business Roundtable from 1974 to 1980. An adviser to four presidents from Richard M. Nixon to Ronald Reagan, he sat on committees guiding White House policies on labor-management and international monetary reform in the 1970's.
        Retiring from G.E., he removed himself from the scene at the company, leaving it to the man he had been a mentor to, Mr. Welch. But he remained active as a director in other corporations like Merck, General Signal, General Re and Federated Department Stores. He also pursued an earlier interest in academia, having once thought of taking up teaching as a profession. He became a life trustee of his alma mater, the University of Pennsylvania, and trustee emeritus in 1987. He served on development committees, headed the resources committee and, for 14 years, the board of overseers of the Wharton School.
        He established a scholarship in his and his wife's name. In his honor, General Electric financed the Reginald H. Jones Center for Management Policy, Strategy and Organization at the Wharton School, which opened in 1983.
        Reg Jones, born in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England, was brought to this country at age 8. His father, a steel mill worker turned electrician, settled the family in Trenton.
        He went to the Wharton School on a scholarship, supplemented with odd jobs, and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1939. Along the way, he met and, in 1940, married a fellow student, Grace Butterfield Cole, who survives him.
        Other survivors include a son, the Rev. Keith E. Jones of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Grace S. J. Vineyard of Hendersonville, N.C.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Reg Jones started work at G.E. in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1939. He went through management training and, as a traveling auditor for eight years, got a look at nearly every company plant in the country.
        Next, he managed parts of G.E.'s highly diversified operations, running the gamut from the air-conditioning division to utilities, construction and distribution. By 1961 he was a vice president of the parent company and in 1968 its chief financial officer.
        He became senior vice president in 1970 and president two years later. In 1972 he also took over as chairman and chief executive.
        During his tenure, and with Mr. Welch's operational support, the company's business mix gradually shifted toward materials, natural resources, services and transportation -- away from its former emphasis on electrical equipment and appliances. By 1980, those growth businesses accounted for 53 percent of G.E.'s profits, compared with 20 percent in 1968.
        On the managerial side, Mr. Jones was credited with similar innovations. He carved the company into scores of strategic business sectors and, along the way, made planning an art form. Those reforms remain in place, too, the company said.
      