
        Alan V. Tishman, a prominent member of the family whose real estate enterprises helped transform New York's skyline, died on Tuesday at his home on Park Avenue in Manhattan, his wife, Margaret, said. He was 86.
        Mr. Tishman ran the leasing arm of the Tishman family companies, a vast empire of construction, management and development corporations.
        He was the younger son of David Tishman, who for years ran the family business, which split into several enterprises in 1976. Mr. Tishman's brother Robert was cofounder of Tishman Speyer Properties, which is the owner or co-owner of some of New York's best-known buildings.
        Alan Valentine Tishman was born in New York on Oct. 12, 1917. He graduated from Dartmouth College and later took courses in law and accounting. He went to work in his father's company in the late 1940's after serving in the Navy in World War II.
        He had an instinct for sales, and one of his first projects was renting out a new high-rise office building at 445 Park Avenue, at that time a predominantly residential area. He realized that the company's business had reached a saturation point in building apartment buildings. With his help, the company's office-rental business would soon take off.
        When the business needed cash in the late 1940's, Mr. Tishman persuaded tenants in several Tishman-owned apartment buildings on Park Avenue to buy their apartments under the cooperative form of ownership, helping start a trend.
        The Tishman family company, called Tishman Realty and Construction Company, split apart as the real estate market plunged in the 1970's. In 1980, parts of the company came back together under the original name.
        Alan Tishman went on to own Tishman Management and Leasing Corporation, which acted as a rental agent for Tishman Speyer Properties.
        Mr. Tishman was a trustee of the American Museum of Natural History and vice president of UJA-Federation of New York.
        For the last three years Mr. Tishman was severely ill with Alzheimer's disease, Mrs. Tishman said. He died in the same apartment where he had lived as a teenager.
        In addition to his wife, Margaret Westheimer Tishman, he is survived by their daughter, Pat T. Hall of Santa Fe, N.M. ; his brother, Robert, of New York City; and his sister, Virginia Meyerson of Boca Raton, Fla.
      