
        M. Searle Wright, a composer, teacher and master of both classic and theater pipe organ, died on Thursday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 86.
        His death was announced by his lawyer, Kent Tanner.
        Mr. Wright, director of chapel music at St. Paul's Chapel at Columbia University from 1952 to 1971 and president of the American Guild of Organists from 1969 to 1971, wrote music that church choirs in North America have been singing for more than half a century. His students, many of whom came to him to learn the art of improvisation, occupy organ benches around the country.
        He moved to Binghamton, where he grew up, in 1977 and was Link professor of music at the State University of New York there until he retired in 1984.
        Mr. Wright was born in Susquehanna, Pa., in 1918. He discovered theater organs after his family moved to Binghamton, earning money as a teenager on weekends by playing Strauss waltzes and transcriptions of organ music on the Wurlitzer at the Capitol Theater before the start of the movie.
        Mr. Wright went to New York City to study classical organ with T. Tertius Noble, the organist and master of choristers at St. Thomas Church, and later attended Columbia University between 1937 and 1947 and studied composition there, though he never received a degree. He perfected his improvisation techniques at the School of Sacred Music at Union Theological Seminary and began teaching students there in 1947.
        Mr. Wright's organ and choral compositions include ''Brother James' Air'' and ''Introduction, Passacaglia and Fugue'' for organ and ''The Green Blade Riseth,'' a choral symphony on the theme of the Resurrection in four movements that he wrote in 1950 for choir, three soloists, organ and orchestra.
        There are no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  June 15, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on June 7 about M. Searle Wright, a master of both classic and theater pipe organ, misstated the surname of his lawyer, who reported the death. He is Kent Turner, not Tanner.
      