
        Jonathan Kramer, a composer and musical theorist, died on June 3 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Deborah Bradley.
        Mr. Kramer, a professor of composition and theory at Columbia University, wrote eclectic music that often drew from sources as disparate as Baroque music and jazz.
        In a review of Mr. Kramer's ''Notta Sonata,'' from 1993, Allan Kozinn of The New York Times noted the droll titles of its first two movements -- ''Notta First Movement'' and ''Also Not a First Movement'' -- and praised the way Mr. Kramer hinted at the work of other composers without making direct quotations of their works.
        ''Figuration redolent of Bach grows compressed until it resembles the harmonically tougher, rhythmically sharp-edged music of Bartok and then softens into an evocation of Bernstein,'' Mr. Kozinn wrote. ''Bach returns in many guises; sometimes refracted through a lens tinted with Hindemith's mild modernism, sometimes in a gentle vibraphone and light percussion version that recalls the Modern Jazz Quartet's Bach fantasies.''
        Mr. Kramer was a longtime program annotator for the Cincinnati Symphony and other orchestras. His books include ''The Time of Music'' and ''Listen to the Music,'' both published in 1988.
        Mr. Kramer was born in Hartford and received his undergraduate degree from Harvard, where he studied with Leon Kirchner.
        He earned a Ph.D. at the University of California at Berkeley, where he studied with Roger Sessions, Seymour Shifrin and others. He also studied with Karlheinz Stockhausen and John Chowning.
        He taught at Berkeley, Oberlin, Yale and the Cincinnati Conservatory, and joined the Columbia faculty in 1988.
        Besides Ms. Bradley, also a music professor at Columbia, he is survived by his father, Maxwell Kramer, of Hartford; a daughter, Stephanie, of Manhattan; and a son, Zachary, of Oakland, Calif. His marriage to Norma Berson ended in divorce.
      