
        Nicolai Ghiaurov, the Bulgarian bass who was one of the leading opera singers of his day, died yesterday in Modena, Italy. He was 74.
        The cause was heart failure, said Jack Mastroianni, his American representative. He had been hospitalized because of a kidney disease.
        His wife, the soprano Mirella Freni, was with him when he died, Mr. Mastroianni said.
        Mr. Ghiaurov's warm, rich bass voice made him ideal for roles like King Philip in Verdi's ''Don Carlo'' or the title role in Moussorgsky's ''Boris Godounov,'' both of which were among his signature roles. His vocal power and striking stage presence helped gain him the kind of accolades opera usually reserves for its tenors and sopranos.
        His Metropolitan Opera debut, in November 1965, as Mephistopheles in Gounod's ''Faust,'' received rapturous reviews.
        ''The man indeed is sensational,'' Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times. ''He not only has a remarkable voice, but he is also big in every way.'' He added, ''He has presence, the kind that Pinza and Chaliapin had, the kind that jumps over the footlights and seizes the listener in a palpable embrace.''
        By then, Mr. Ghiaurov was already a star in Europe; his American debut, at the Chicago Lyric Opera, had taken place two years earlier. His Met debut would have come earlier, too, he told an interviewer in 1965, but a tenor accidentally got in the way. At a party in Milan, Rudolf Bing, the Met's general manager, made Mr. Ghiaurov an offer, which was overheard by Franco Corelli. According to Mr. Ghiaurov, Corelli ''became very excited'' and said to Bing, ''How dare you offer him so little?'' ''From then on, everything was ruined in that discussion,'' Mr. Ghiaurov said.
        As beloved as he was in New York, Mr. Ghiaurov never created a home base there of the kind he had in Europe; he sang 81 performances of 10 roles at the Met, including a gala in 1991 celebrating the 25th anniversaries his debut, Ms. Freni's and the tenor Alfredo Kraus's; he also appeared in the Met's centennial gala in 1983. His last performance there was in 1996, in ''Rigoletto.''
        He remained active in Europe, however. In 2001, he tried out a new role, Dosifey, the old believer, in Moussorgsky's ''Khovanshchina,'' in a new production in Zurich, having often sung Khovansky in the same opera. In December in Venice, he sang Basilio in Rossini's ''Barber of Seville,'' the role in which he made his operatic debut in Sofia in 1955. In January of this year, he sang the high priest Ramphis in Verdi's ''Aida'' in Monte Carlo, the role of his debut Vienna State Opera in 1957.
        His remarkable vocal longevity was often attributed to his choice of roles suited to his voice and to his care in later years not to overextend himself with too many performances.
        Born in 1929 in Velingrad, Bulgaria, Mr. Ghiaurov studied violin, clarinet and piano as a child. Even after his vocal abilities became clear, he seriously considered becoming a conductor; he studied both voice and conducting at the Moscow Conservatory, which he attended after studies at the Academy of Music in Sofia.
        In 1955, he won a vocal competition in Warsaw, where he met his first wife, Zlatina, a pianist. They had two children, who survive him, along with Ms. Freni: Vladimir Ghiaurov, a conductor in Bulgaria, and Elena Ghiaurov, an actress in Italy.
        After his operatic debut, Mr. Ghiaurov's progress was rapid: Bologna in 1958, La Scala in 1959, Covent Garden in 1962.
        ''It is not entirely good to move up with such speed,'' he told an interviewer. ''I do not have the long experience with the smaller roles first. Almost from the beginning it is the big roles.''
        A sense of his magnetism is preserved in Henri-Georges Clouzot's 1967 film of the Verdi Requiem conducted by Herbert von Karajan, with a young Luciano Pavarotti.
        Ms. Freni and Mr. Ghiaurov first sang together in 1961, in ''Faust,'' in Genoa, Italy. At the time, they were both married to other people. In later interviews, they disagreed about exactly when they got together. They married in 1978, and lived in Modena.
        ''In the United States,'' Mr. Ghiaurov said in 1965, ''there is a tendency to compare that is not very just. Every artist should be taken on his own values. To tell the truth, I would much rather be judged as the first Ghiaurov -- even if a small Ghiaurov -- than a second Chaliapin. Chaliapin was a genius. But I do not want to imitate anybody.''
      