
        Charles Dumas, who was the first person to clear seven feet in the high jump -- but only after buying a $3 ticket to compete in the meet -- died Jan. 5 at his home in Inglewood, Calif. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter, Keasha Dumas, said.
        From 1954 to 1962, four of track and field's supposedly unbreachable barriers were broken. In 1954 Roger Bannister ran the first sub-four-minute mile. Two days later Parry O'Brien made the first 60-foot shot-put. In 1962 John Uelses became the first to pole-vault 16 feet. The other record-breaker was Dumas.
        On June 29, 1956, Dumas was a 19-year-old, 6-foot-2 freshman at Compton College competing in the United States Olympic trials in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. His day started badly. Hershel Smith, his coach, had Dumas's ticket for competitors, and they were supposed to meet at a Coliseum gate. But Smith was caught in traffic.
        As Dumas recalled it in 1986 in an interview with The Los Angeles Times: ''He didn't show up when he was supposed to. I had to pay $3 to get in the Coliseum, then talk my way past the guard at the dressing room.''
        The competition went fine for Dumas. Only he, Phil Reavis and Vern Wilson cleared 6 feet 9 1/2 inches, giving them the three berths on the Olympic team.
        Years later, Dumas disclosed what happened next.
        ''I asked the high-jump official, Dave Schwartz, to raise it to seven feet,'' Dumas said. ''But Wilson came over and said: 'Charlie, if you clear an even seven, a dozen guys will do it next week, once the mental barrier is gone. Put it a half-inch over.' ''
        The rules allowed Dumas three attempts at the height. On his first, he knocked over the bar. On his second, after his usual short run-up, he cleared the bar, then brushed it. The bar shook but stayed up. It was a world record.
        Allison Danzig wrote in The New York Times, ''It was a moment comparable to, if not as dramatic as, the moment the four-minute-mile barrier was first broken.''
        Five months after the trials, Dumas won the Olympic gold medal in Melbourne, Australia, clearing 6-11 1/2, an Olympic record. In the 1960 Rome Olympics, a knee injury hampered him and he finished sixth. In 1964, hoping to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics, he cleared seven feet but reinjured the knee and retired.
        Dumas's world record stood until 1960, when another American, John Thomas, jumped 7-1 1/2. The men's world record is now 8- 1/2, set by Javier Sotomayor of Cuba in 1993. The women's record of 6-10 1/4 was achieved by Stefka Kostadinova of Bulgaria in 1987.
        Charles Everett Dumas was born Feb. 12, 1937, in Tulsa, Okla. His family moved to Los Angeles when he was 4, and he was reared there. After one year at Compton, he entered the University of Southern California.
        He earned a bachelor's degree there and a master's in school management and administration from U.C.L.A. Then he spent 40 years as a teacher, administrator and coach at Los Angeles high schools.
        In addition to his daughter, Keasha, he is survived by a son, Kyle; three brothers, Cornelius, James and Frederick; and two sisters, Barbara Dumas and Delores Naulls, all of the Los Angeles area. His marriage ended in divorce.
      