
        John G. McClelland, the flamboyant Canadian publisher who helped nurture the careers of several of Canada's most prominent writers, including Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro and Mordecai Richler, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 81.
        The cause was heart failure, Elsa Franklin, a family friend, announced. She said he had been seriously ill for several years.
        Mr. McClelland's passion for Canadian literature and his promotional flair are widely credited for drawing attention to many of Canada's best-known authors.
        ''He made an enormous push for Canadian publishing, and my career was part of that,'' Ms. Atwood said in a phone interview on Tuesday.
        Still, Mr. McClelland struggled to keep McClelland & Stewart, his family-owned publishing business, on an even financial keel. Canadian publishers have struggled for many years to compete against much bigger American and European companies, and government subsidies have come to play a significant role in financing book publishing in this country.
        Mr. McClelland, who was known as Jack, was born in Toronto on July 30, 1922. After serving as a torpedo boat captain in the Royal Navy in World War II, he joined his father's publishing company. Its business at the time consisted mainly of distributing American and British titles. Mr. McClelland became president in 1961.
        Combining astute literary judgment with good looks, charisma and a talent for giving memorable parties, Mr. McClelland gradually attracted many of Canada's leading authors in the 1960's and 70's. Besides Ms. Atwood, Ms. Munro and Mr. Richler, McClelland & Stewart's clientele included Leonard Cohen, Margaret Laurence, Michael Ondaatje and Pierre Berton, one of the most prolific chroniclers of Canadian history.
        Mr. McClelland often said he published writers, not books. As evidence, Ms. Atwood recalled him as a ''big risk taker.'' When she met him for the first time over a drink in 1967, she said, he offered to publish a novel of hers even though he had not read it.
        Ms. Atwood said the manuscript that she had submitted two years earlier had been lost, an event that reflected McClelland & Stewart's erratic reputation for efficiency.
        According to a collection of Mr. McClelland's letters published in 1998, he reacted to Mr. Cohen's manuscript for the experimental novel ''Beautiful Losers'' in 1965 by writing to the author: ''It's wild and incredible and marvelously well written, and at the same time appalling, shocking, revolting, disgusting, sick and just maybe it's a great novel. I'm damned if I know.''
        Despite McClelland & Stewart's publishing successes, it had several brushes with financial disaster under Mr. McClelland's management. After a costly expansion in the late 1960's, the company was bailed out by a loan from the Ontario provincial government.
        The government and a group of private investors mounted another rescue in 1984, by which time Mr. McClelland had relinquished day-to-day management to become chairman. He sold McClelland & Stewart in 1986. The company is now owned by the University of Toronto, with a 75 percent stake, and Random House, with 25 percent.
        Mr. McClelland went on to set up a small literary agency in the late 1980's, but it foundered.
        Mr. McClelland is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; four daughters, Sarah, Carol, Susan and Ann; a son, Robert; and several grandchildren.
        Mr. McClelland was known for his colorful publicity stunts. He used to ride on Toronto streetcars wearing what he called his ''coat of many authors,'' a jacket imprinted with McClelland & Stewart book covers. On another occasion, dressed in a toga, he rode a chariot down one of the city's busiest streets to promote a book. Ms. Franklin recalled one McClelland & Stewart book party at which a cake decorated with several hundred candles caused a fire in a Toronto restaurant.
      