
        John Adam Wallace, who founded the School for International Training in Vermont, an institution that seeks to foster understanding among young people around the world through studying and working abroad, died Friday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Putney, Vt.
        His death was announced by World Learning, founded in 1932 as the Experiment in International Living, with which he had been associated for half a century. The Experiment, as it is known, was one of the first and most successful plans to promote international understanding by offering students long-term stays with host families in other countries.
        Dr. Wallace started the School for International Training, an outgrowth of the Experiment with headquarters in Brattleboro, Vt., in 1964 and directed it until 1978. He oversaw its growth into a degree-granting senior college and graduate institution.
        The students combine classroom study with stints at nongovernmental organizations like the Red Cross and the Pan American Health Organization that work in other countries. It also offers extensive programs for students of other colleges.
        The institution also offers language training for public school teachers, internships overseas and summer sessions for working professionals.
        During his tenure, Dr. Wallace also directed the training of 55 American Peace Corps groups. After retiring from the United States branch of the Experiment in International Living in 1978, he was elected secretary general of Federation EIL, the parent organization, coordinating educational and cultural exchanges run by nearly 50 national offices worldwide.
        Jack Wallace, as he was commonly known, was born in Lansdowne, Pa., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1937 from the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a master's degree in education in 1939 and a Ph.D. in education in 1949.
        He taught high school before entering the Army in 1941 as a second lieutenant. He served on a team experimenting with ways of moving ground troops by air before being attached to airborne and parachute units.
        In 1946, he was awarded the Legion of Merit for his role in the Army's first tests of the tactical deployment of helicopters. He remained in the active reserves until 1967, advancing to the rank of colonel. His Army experience overseas, seeing the concentration camps after the Allies crossed the Rhine into Germany, shaped his career. He was teaching at Beaver College in Jenkintown, Pa., in 1949 when he took 28 of his students on a two-week trek across Europe under the aegis of the Council on Student Travel.
        After 1950, as an associate professor of education and director of undergraduate studies at the Business School at Boston University, he again organized programs to study other countries and cultures. He resigned from Boston University in 1955 to become vice president and assistant director of the Experiment in International Living the next year. He soon involved himself in efforts to open the countries of the Soviet orbit, and the Soviet Union itself, to student exchanges. After some success with Yugoslavia, he spearheaded a young people's exchange with Poland in 1958.
        He was the founding president of the University of the Virgin Islands in St. Thomas in 1962 and in 1992 helped establish the British Virgin Islands Community College in Tortola, now renamed the H. Lavity Stoutt Community College after its founder.
        He sat on the boards of many other educational institutions and wrote four ''Getting to Know'' books in the 1960's about France, Egypt, Poland and the Soviet Union. Active in local civic and cultural affairs, he was chosen to carry the Olympic torch for a stretch when it passed through southern Vermont on its way to Olympic Games in Atlanta in 1996.
        Dr. Wallace is survived by his wife of 62 years, Betty Jean Higgins Wallace; four daughters, Barbara W. George, Dr. Lynn W. Herzog, Martha W. Jones, all of Brattleboro, and Jan Backus Blodgett of Winooski, Vt.; a brother, William, of Topeka, Kan.; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      