
        Bernard V. Vonderschmitt, an electrical engineer who led early semiconductor research efforts and who later pioneered the business of separating chip design and manufacturing, died on June 9 at his home in Jasper, Ind., from complications from a stroke, according to a spokesman for Xilinx Inc. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Vonderschmitt and two partners founded Xilinx in 1984 to make a new class of semiconductor chips known as field programmable gate arrays. While the chips themselves were innovative, the lasting effect of Xilinx on Silicon Valley was that the company was the first to truly separate the design of chips from their manufacture.
        Xilinx found a partner and contracted to use its manufacturing plant, known as a fab.
        That business approach is now a common one, but at the time design and manufacturing of integrated circuits was done within a single corporation. Separating those functions allowed companies to design innovative chips without having costly manufacturing facilities.
        The idea of separating the design of chips from their manufacture came out of necessity, Mr. Vonderschmitt said in a oral history conducted by Rob Walker, for the Silicon Genesis Oral History project at Stanford University.
        ''It was extremely important for us to always be at the leading edge and we felt that there's no way that we could build a fab,'' he said in the interview. ''We have to be with somebody else who can use the facilities and therein was born the concept that we would use a third party.''
        As a researcher at the RCA Corporation, where he worked for 34 years, Mr. Vonderschmitt was involved in an early industry rivalry over the design of color television. At the time, CBS was promoting a mechanical system for displaying colors. The head of RCA, David Sarnoff, pushed for an all-electronic alternative. In 1953, Mr. Vonderschmitt was picked to head the development of a color television project at the company.
        The National Television System Committee standard, which was developed by Mr. Vonderschmitt's group, remains in use in the United States to this day.
        Mr. Vonderschmitt headed the RCA solid-state division from 1972 to 1979.
        He later led the development of a semiconductor manufacturing process known as complementary metal-oxide-silicon before moving to Silicon Valley in 1979 to lead the component division of Zilog.
        ''Bernie was almost Japanese in his leadership style,'' said Bill Carter, who worked as a circuit designer at Xilinx. ''He was very consultative in his decision-making process, and he was a very people-sensitive person.''
        The youngest of 10 children, Mr. Vonderschmitt was raised on a farm in Indiana.
        He earned an electrical engineering degree in 1944. He served in the United States Navy during World War II.
        Mr. Vonderschmitt is survived by his wife, Theresa; a brother, Ralph; and two sisters, Dolores and Genny.
      