
        Dr. Frederick C. Redlich, a psychiatrist who studied the relationship between the social environment and mental illness and wrote a comprehensive medical and psychological biography of Hitler, died at Yale-New Haven Hospital on Jan. 1. He was 93.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, according to Yale, where Dr. Redlich had been dean of the medical school and chairman of the department of psychiatry.
        Dr. Redlich, known as Fritz, was a founding figure in social psychiatry. His book ''Social Class and Mental Illness'' (1964), written with August B. Hollingshead, a Yale sociologist, documented the psychiatric problems prevalent in low-income urban neighborhoods and the lack of mental health services there. It also discussed the effects of untreated mental illness on life in those neighborhoods.
        Later in 1964, Dr. Redlich helped establish the Connecticut Mental Health Center to provide care for poor people in New Haven.
        Dr. Redlich's book ''Hitler: Diagnosis of a Destructive Prophet'' (1998), which he described as a ''pathography,'' examines the effect that disease may have had on Hitler.
        Dr. Redlich concluded that Hitler, though exhibiting extreme paranoia and defenses ''that could fill a psychiatry textbook,'' was probably not mentally ill. His paranoid delusions ''could be viewed as a symptom of mental disorder, but most of the personality functioned normally,'' Dr. Redlich wrote, adding that Hitler ''knew what he was doing and he chose to do it with pride and enthusiasm.''
        Frederick Carl Redlich, who was born in Vienna, received his medical degree from the University of Vienna, as did his first wife, Elsa. The two emigrated in 1938.
        He joined Yale's faculty in 1942, became an American citizen in 1943 and served in the Army Medical Service during World War II. After retiring from teaching at Yale in 1977, he taught at the University of California, Los Angeles through 1982.
        Dr. Redlich is survived by his wife, the mezzo-soprano Herta Glaz; a son, Peter, of Chester, Conn.; and a grandson. Dr. Redlich's son Erik died in 2002.
      