
        Dr. Charles D. Kelman, an ophthalmologist who had an epiphany in a dentist's chair four decades ago that led to a radically simpler way for eye surgeons to remove cataracts, died Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Before Dr. Kelman developed his technique, called phacoemulsification, patients suffering from cataracts -- flaws in the lens that cloud the vision -- could expect a 10-day hospital stay followed by a lengthy recovery. Today, it is an outpatient procedure, and patients are often back at work the next day.
        Dr. Kelman developed his innovation in the mid-1960's, as he was trying to figure out how cataracts could be removed without having to take out the entire lens of the eye, which was then standard practice. Apart from the long recovery, it carried the potential for medical complications.
        Dr. Kelman's accomplishments and his gift for showmanship brought him unusual fame for an ophthalmologist, including many television appearances. But success was not immediate.
        In his memoir, ''Through My Eyes: The Story of a Surgeon Who Dared to Take On the Medical World'' (Crown, 1985), Dr. Kelman described a low point in his research when, having spent $250,000 in grant money, he failed to find a solution. Among other approaches, he had tried small drills on lab animals; while they removed the cataract, they also destroyed the eye.
        Then he went to a dentist have his teeth cleaned. ''I sat in his chair, as he reached over, took a long silver instrument out of its cradle and turned it on,'' Dr. Kelman wrote. ''A fine mist came off the tip but the tip didn't seem to be moving. He applied the tip to my teeth, and I felt an exquisite vibration and heard a high-pitched sound.''
        Dr. Kelman asked, ''What is that thing?'' An ultrasonic probe, came the reply.
        ''I knew this was the moment,'' Dr. Kelman wrote.
        In 1967, the phacoemulsification procedure was introduced. Instead of making a large incision in the eye and removing the lens, doctors could make a tiny one. Then they inserted an ultrasonic tip which, vibrating thousands of times a second, broke up the cataracts without damaging the surrounding tissue. The remains of the cataract were suctioned out.
        The procedure, which Dr. Kelman taught to thousands of doctors around the world, is now performed more than a million times a year in the United States alone. Artificial lenses that he developed in the 1970's are now routinely implanted in patients' eyes, making unnecessary the ultrathick glasses that once were common after surgery. And his ultrasonic approach has been adopted in other fields of medicine, including neurosurgery.
        ''It was not evolutionary, it was revolutionary,'' said Dr. Elliot Finkelstein, a past president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology.
        The discovery brought recognition to a man who had long wanted it, if not necessarily by this path.
        Charles Kelman was born on May 23, 1930, in Brooklyn, the son of David and Eva Kelman, and he grew up in Queens. He graduated from Forest Hills High School and Tufts University, then earned his medical degree at the University of Geneva.
        Dr. Kelman dreamed of being a musician when he was a child, and, in fact, became a well-regarded amateur jazz saxophonist and clarinetist. He also did an occasional stand-up routine in nightclubs and helped produce several Broadway shows.
        The combination of his medical achievements, performing skills and robust self-confidence made him a natural for television. Dr. Kelman made numerous appearances with hosts like Johnny Carson, Merv Griffin, Barbara Walters, Oprah Winfrey and David Letterman.
        He also played with jazz stars like Lionel Hampton and Dizzy Gillespie, some of whom, like Hampton, were his patients. He rented Carnegie Hall to give a performance. And in his 40's, he learned to fly a helicopter, landing it on the roof of a hospital in Long Island where he was working.
        Some of the more conservative members of his field were put off by the flamboyance of the man who sometimes referred to himself as ''the world's No. 1 ophthalmologist.'' Even his supporters agreed that bashfulness was not in his nature.
        ''Charlie was the ultimate extrovert,'' Dr. Finkelstein said. ''But he was a guy who really produced.''
        Even before adapting ultrasound for cataract surgery, Dr. Kelman devised a groundbreaking cataract-removal technique that became widely used. It involved an instrument called a cryoprobe, which he invented in 1962 and which made it easier to remove the lens and cataracts by freezing them first -- a technique still used in retina surgery.
        Dr. Kelman is survived by his wife, Ann, of Boca Raton; two daughters, Lesley Kelman Koeppel of Manhattan and Jennifer Kelman of Boca Raton; three sons, Evan, Seth and Jason, all of Boca Raton; a sister, Ruth Dorfman of Boca Raton; and three grandchildren.
        In a 1992 interview, Dr. Kelman recalled that when he was 17, his father asked him to take his saxophone to the basement. After the young man played a Jimmy Dorsey tune, his father asked if he had played it as well as Dorsey could. Charlie conceded that he had not.
        Mr. Kelman replied, ''You'll be a doctor.''
      