
        Al Lapin Jr., who started the International House of Pancakes chain by opening a family-operated restaurant with his brother, Jerry, in 1958, died last Wednesday at the U.S.C./Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cancer, said a son, Randy. Mr. Lapin, 76, lived in the Century City section of Los Angeles.
        The chain's first location, featuring extra-sweet recipes for waffles and pancakes tested in the kitchen of his mother, Viola, was in Toluca Lake in Los Angeles County. It was chosen in hopes of catching the overflow from a popular Bob's Big Boy restaurant nearby.
        ''My mother Marilyn was the cashier and I was 4 months old, under the register in a bassinet,'' Randy Lapin said.
        IHOP, as the chain came to be known, grew with hundreds of franchised units, the sale of stock to the public and an assortment of food-related and other businesses. The pancake houses became known for their blue roofs and a policy of leaving a pot of coffee on the table.
        Mr. Lapin also bought businesses, including the Orange Julius chain, Michael's Artist & Engineering Supplies, motels and business colleges.
        A New York native, Mr. Lapin studied filmmaking at the University of Southern California after Army service. He worked in television and produced films for a civil defense agency on surviving atomic attacks.
        His first food enterprise was Coffee Time, which supplied urns of hot coffee to offices.
        Mr. Lapin was a stickler for attractive presentation, both personally and in food, his son recalled. ''He used to say, 'You have to look like a dollar to borrow a dime' and 'People eat with their eyes before they eat with their hands.'''
        Julia Stewart, chief executive of the current IHOP company, a franchise chain with 55,000 employees and $1.7 billion in sales last year, said in a newsletter that Mr. Lapin ''took a seemingly simple idea'' and created a business much appreciated by people in 48 states and Canada.
        But he lost control of his company in 1973. Earnings fell in an economic slowdown and credit dried up for franchise chains generally. Franchise holders argued in a lawsuit that they had been overcharged for supplies and equipment. The company changed some practices and earnings again declined.
        ''After eight years of impressive growth and earnings, we were clobbered by the recession of 1970 and 1971 and some of our own errors,'' Mr. Lapin said at the annual meeting in 1973.
        He tried some other businesses and eventually declared bankruptcy in 1989.
        ''He rode the wave and experienced the crash,'' Randy Lapin said.
        Survivors include his wife, Yona, of Century City; his sons Randy, of Simi Valley, and Jeffrey, of the Woodland Hills section of Los Angeles; a brother, Jerry, of Boulder, Colo. and three grandchildren. Marilyn Lapin, his first wife, lives in the Marina del Rey area of Los Angeles.
      