
        Clayton Kirkpatrick, a former editor of The Chicago Tribune who presided over a sweeping transformation of the newspaper's editorial approach, died Saturday at his home in Glen Ellyn, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. He was 89.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, The Tribune reported yesterday.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick was The Tribune's editor from 1969 to 1979. He took the job when the newspaper adhered to traditions of partisan reporting that had originated under Col. Robert R. McCormick, a former owner who died in 1955. According to its own account yesterday, The Tribune ''had been the Republican bible for the first half of the 20th century,'' and, until Mr. Kirkpatrick was made editor on Jan. 1, 1969, ''was caught in a time warp.''
        Mr. Kirkpatrick immediately wrote an editorial telling Tribune readers that they could expect changes in both the editorial page and news columns, and that ''no political party should take The Tribune for granted.''
        In the years that followed, Mr. Kirkpatrick encountered resistance from conservative members of the Tribune Company's board and complaints from readers, but in the long run the newspaper reversed a lengthy decline in circulation and increased its profits under Mr. Kirkpatrick's leadership.
        At the height of the Watergate scandals in May 1974, the newspaper demonstrated its break with its past with a 44-page special section that contained the entire transcript of President Richard M. Nixon's Watergate-related conversations. Eight days later, a Tribune editorial that was headlined ''Listen, Mr. Nixon'' called on him to resign.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick also introduced new specialized sections and changed the appearance of The Tribune, using more photographs and graphic material. In the case of the Moon landing in 1969, the normal front page mix of type and headlines was replaced with one huge headline, three short paragraphs of large type and a photograph of the Moon's surface.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick was born on Jan. 8, 1915, and grew up in Waterman, Ill. He attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he graduated in 1937.
        A year later, he was hired as a reporter by the City News Bureau, a news service in Chicago, and he became a local reporter at The Tribune that year.
        He enlisted in the Army in 1942, and was awarded a Bronze Star before his discharge in 1945.
        At The Tribune, he worked his way from an editor on the copy desk to city editor in 1961. He was made assistant managing editor in 1963, managing editor in 1965 and executive editor in 1967.
        After his 10 years as editor, Mr. Kirkpatrick was made president and chief executive of the Tribune Company in 1979 and retired in 1981.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick's wife, Thelma, died in 1998. He is survived by two sons, Bruce and James; two daughters, Eileen Vaughan and Pamela Kirkpatrick; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      