
        Dr. Norman G. Heatley, an Oxford University biochemist who helped revolutionize medicine by isolating early samples of penicillin and helping to convert it into a powerful drug that gave Allied troops an advantage in World War II, died Jan. 5 at his home in Oxford, England, according to the university. He was 92.
        Penicillin was first identified by Dr. Alexander Fleming in 1928, but his efforts to extract the active substance from its mold were unsuccessful. He published a paper on his discovery and moved on to other projects.
        Then in 1938, Dr. Howard W. Florey stumbled upon Fleming's largely forgotten paper at Oxford and set out to obtain enough penicillin to run clinical trials.
        By early 1940, Dr. Heatley, a member of Dr. Florey's scientific team, had developed a crude technique for isolating minuscule amounts of penicillin. In a simple overnight experiment, the team demonstrated that the drug could protect mice that had been injected with deadly bacteria. But carrying out trials with humans required a device that could produce penicillin on a much larger scale.
        With the bombing of Britain during the war, supplies and financing were scarce, so Dr. Heatley was forced to assemble his updated apparatus from bottles, containers and hospital bedpans.
        ''He used every conceivable container available to him,'' said Sir Henry Harris, who succeeded Dr. Florey as a professor of pathology at Oxford. ''You have to remember, this was wartime, so no one had anything. He was an extremely gifted improviser.''
        Despite enormous odds, Dr. Heatley's machine worked. It separated enough penicillin to test on a human, but the limited supply ran out before the patient could fully recover.
        British companies expressed interest in mass-producing the penicillin, but wartime demand for standard drugs was too great, and Dr. Heatley and Dr. Florey had to look overseas for help.
        In June 1941, the two set out on a perilous trip to the United States with samples of their penicillin mold. They ended up at a Department of Agriculture research laboratory in Peoria, Ill., where, working with some of the top biologists in the United States, Dr. Heatley and Dr. Florey set in motion the research that led to large-scale production of penicillin.
        Almost immediately, the drug's impact was striking.
        By 1944, when Allied forces charged the beaches of Normandy, enough penicillin was available to treat wounded British and American troops. In the United States, as penicillin and other antibiotics became widely used, the number of deaths from major infections began to plummet while overall life expectancy climbed.
        ''Not only did Heatley make a crucial contribution, but without him the enterprise may not have succeeded at all,'' said Sir James Gowans, a former professor of pathology at Oxford. ''He was the one that came up with the key step in the isolation of penicillin.''
        In the early 40's, after working on industrial development of the drug in the United States, Dr. Heatley returned to Oxford to help with the British effort.
        In 1990, roughly 50 years after he extricated the first bits of antibiotic from a fungus, Dr. Heatley was celebrated with a rare honor. Oxford awarded him the first honorary doctorate of medicine in its 800-year history.
        Dr. Heatley, however, was not included in the Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology, awarded in 1945, for the development of penicillin. That went to Dr. Fleming, Dr. Florey and Dr. Ernst Chain, the member of the Oxford team who discovered the chemical action of penicillin.
        Norman George Heatley was born in Suffolk, England, and earned his bachelor's degree and doctorate from Cambridge. He joined the faculty at Oxford shortly afterward, remaining there until his retirement in 1976.
        Throughout his career, he was the author or co-author of more than 60 scientific papers. A scholarship at Oxford, as well as the laboratory where he first purified penicillin, are now named after him.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Mercy; two sons, Jonathan and Chris; two daughters, Rose and Tamsin; and six grandchildren.
      