
        Robert W. Bemer, an early computer programmer, who helped devise Ascii, a system for representing letters and numbers in code that is still in use, died Tuesday evening at his home in Possum Kingdom Lake, Tex., west of Fort Worth. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his stepson, Glen Peeler, said yesterday.
        Mr. Bemer was introduced to computers while doing engineering work on military aircraft for the Rand Corporation in California in 1949. ''There I met early I.B.M. computers and fell in technical love,'' he wrote in a series of personal recollections on his Web site. ''I just knew that the computer business was what I had been designed for.''
        The computer business was in its infancy, and programming was bespoke work; typically it involved setting up machines to run calculations one job at a time. It was not until 1958 that the first published mention of ''software'' as a computing term appeared. Software was not a separate business, but merely a cost of getting the big room-sized computers to do their work. Building the machines was considered a science, but programming seemed more of an art, and programmers were regarded as the unruly bohemians of computing.
        Bright, fast-talking and irreverent, Mr. Bemer seemed to fit right in during the freewheeling early days of programming. He worked for aircraft companies -- including Lockheed -- in California until 1955, when he joined the programming research department of I.B.M. in New York.
        There was no formal training for programmers, and for a while Mr. Bemer was in charge of recruiting. An I.B.M. newspaper advertisement seeking programmers noted, ''Those who enjoy playing chess or solving puzzles will find this work absorbing.''
        His particular talent, his former colleagues said, was coming up with technical insights and inspiring others.
        Mr. Bemer played an important role in helping develop a standard system of translating letters and numbers into digital code that can be processed by a computer, known as the American Standard Code for Information Interchange, or Ascii (pronounced AS-kee). Before Ascii, computer manufacturers had their own systems for encoding letters and numbers, making it difficult or impossible to exchange data between machines from different computer makers.
        In the late 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Bemer was one of the foremost advocates who pushed for the standard, under the guidance of the American National Standards Institute (it was later adopted by the International Standards Organization). Ascii was put into effect in 1963, expanded and modified over the years, and it is an enduring standard in computing.
        Mr. Bemer firmly supported Ascii, even though the senior management of I.B.M. backed its home-grown encoding standard. In 1962, Mr. Bemer left I.B.M. to join Sperry Rand's Univac division.
        In its way, the Ascii standard was a forerunner of the standards for exchanging and reading data that enable communication across the Internet and World Wide Web. Ascii allows basic information to be exchanged from one machine to another, while the Internet standards are for data communication across a network.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Bemer played a role in another important computer standard, the Cobol programming language. The Defense Department wanted a common language for accounting and business data, and the result at the end of 1959 was Cobol, for Common Business Oriented Language. Though the language was developed by others, Mr. Bemer and Grace Hopper, a rear admiral in the Navy and a software pioneer, were advisers.
        Mr. Bemer was born on Feb. 8, 1920, in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. In high school, he became a skilled musician, playing both the cello and trumpet, and he received a music scholarship to Albion College, where he majored in mathematics.
        Mr. Bemer was married six times, and twice to Bettie Seals Peeler Bemer, who survives Mr. Bemer. The couple was divorced in 1984 and remarried in 1999, said his stepson, Mr. Peeler.
        Mr. Bemer is also survived by a stepdaughter, Betty Rae Peeler; six children, Jan Bemer, Kristina DuVall, Mark Bemer, Derek Bemer, Gretchen Moore and Bruce Bemer; nine grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      