
        Bernard Russell Seidman, at the forefront of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits, died on Thursday at his home in Falls Church, Va., the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced. He was 84.
        For decades, Mr. Seidman worked closely with George Meany, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, serving as its representative in Europe, as an economist for the federation and later as an adviser on pensions, health care and Social Security.
        Bernard Russell Seidman was born on Sept. 22, 1919, in Brooklyn. After he graduated from Townsend Harris High School in 1934, he attended City College. He transferred to the University of Wisconsin, earning a bachelor's degree in economics in 1938 and a master's degree in economics in 1941.
        Mr. Seidman, a pacifist and socialist, was a conscientious objector during World War II and as alternative service he helped build the Blue Ridge Parkway.
        After the war, he became assistant executive secretary of the Workers Defense League. There, he met Annabel Henry, whom he married in 1948. She died last year.
        In 1948 he joined the A.F.L.'s staff, working as an economist in its research department until 1962.
        From that year until 1966, he was the federation's European representative.
        From 1958 to 1976 he was a member of the American delegation to the International Labor Organization.
        From 1966 to 1990, when he retired from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., he headed the federation's Social Security department.
        In retirement he was a founder of Save Our Security, one of the earliest groups to oppose privatizing Social Security.
        He is survived by three daughters, Margaret Seidman of Fairfax, Va., Joan Seidman Welsh of Arlington, Va., and Elizabeth Seidman Garaufis of Queens, N.Y.; two brothers, Lloyd G. Seidman and Benedict S. Seidman, both of New York; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 27, 2004, Sunday  An obituary yesterday about an A.F.L.-C.I.O. official at the forefront of union efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits misstated his given name. He was Bertrand Russell Seidman, not Bernard.
      