
        Takashi Ishihara, who marshaled the fierceness of a rugby player and the precision of an accountant to lead the Nissan Motor Company to global prominence, died on Dec. 28 at a Tokyo hospital. He was 91.
        The announcement of his death came in a statement by his son Yoshiharu that was reported by The Associated Press.
        Mr. Ishihara was president of Nissan during the years in which Japan surged ahead of Detroit to become the world's largest auto producer. He became a highly visible spokesman, often a notably loquacious one, at a time when politicians enacted quotas to limit imports of Japanese cars because Americans liked them better than Detroit's.
        Moreover, he was a frequent spokesman on economic and trade issues before Congress and elsewhere as chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, as well as the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.
        Mr. Ishihara pushed Nissan into visibility and then profitability as the first president of its United States subsidiary in the early 1960's, and in the 1970's he guided Nissan's exploitation of the suddenly unquenchable market for small cars in the wake of soaring oil prices.
        In the 1980's, as president of the company, he built plants to make Nissan vehicles in the United States and Britain. His style was hands-on in a corporate culture used to deference: before him, top Japanese executives seldom visited assembly lines.
        David Halberstam, in ''The Reckoning'' (Morrow, 1986), his study of the Japanese car industry, suggested Mr. Ishihara, a former rugby player, ''more than any other Japanese auto executive'' looked like a counterpart of his ''burly, forceful Detroit peers.''
        Mr. Ishihara ''flaunted,'' Mr. Halberstam said, ''an almost pugnacious physical quality.'' He took risks, almost eagerly. In the early 1960's, he told Nissan's board that he would resign from the company if the $500,000 investment he was requesting for American operations did not result in a profit.
        ''Years later, when Ishihara was president of Nissan and was frequently congratulated on the brilliance of Nissan's performance in America, he was always mildly amused, for he knew how near they had come to failure,'' Mr. Halberstam wrote.
        Takashi Ishihara was born in Tokyo on March 3, 1912. He graduated from Tohoku University in 1937 with a law degree. He then joined Nissan.
        He enjoyed telling friends that he got the job because he was not talented enough for the first-rate places, the banks and high ministries, Mr. Halberstam wrote. He advanced rapidly during World War II; he did not serve in the military.
        ''I was lucky,'' he later said. ''All the smarter young men had to go into the army, so there was little competition in my generation.''
        By 1945 Mr. Ishihara had risen to director of Nissan's accounting department, a pivotal position at a time the company was struggling to pay its bills. He was named a director of the company in 1954.
        He was then named director of exports, and in 1960 set up an export subsidiary in the United States. He insisted that he do the job from Tokyo, where he could better navigate Nissan's tangled office politics. He was promoted to managing director in 1963 and two years later became head of sales in Japan.
        Mr. Ishihara scored a big success in the mid-1960's by backing a small car with a one-liter engine for the Japanese domestic market. Other directors opposed it because a similar car made by Toyota, the Publica, had sold poorly. Nissan's car, called the Datsun Sunny, became the company's best-selling model, Michael A. Cusumano wrote in ''The Japanese Automobile Industry: Technology and Management at Nissan and Toyota'' (Harvard, 1989).
        Mr. Ishihara did not become president of Nissan until he was 65, when he was already something of a legend. He made deals with West Germans and Italians without even mentioning the transactions to local Nissan officials. Mr. Halberstam suggested that Mr. Ishihara was unusually ''self-interested'' for a Japanese executive, saying that he ''nakedly wanted the credit.''
        He set up a design studio near San Diego that became celebrated for its groundbreaking automotive designs. It developed the 1986 Hardbody pickup, the muscular 1987 Pathfinder and the modular 1987 Pulsar NX.
        He served as president from 1977 to 1985, and later as chairman for seven years. One of his biggest initiatives was building a plant in Tennessee, which assembled trucks beginning in 1983 and added cars two years later. The factory was highly automated, in part because Mr. Ishihara doubted the quality of American workers.
        ''There are great differences between them in loyalty to the company, their enthusiasm to work and other factors,'' Mr. Ishihara said in an interview in 1980.
        Such forthrightness was not uncommon. In 1990, Mr. Ishihara suggested that Japan might be better off if its governing party, the Liberal Democrats, were split into two centrist parties. In 1999, he said in an interview that Renault, which had become the largest holder of Nissan stock, was a second-rate company.
        The Associated Press said that Mr. Ishihara is survived by his wife, Shizuko, his son Yoshiharu and another son, whom The A.P. did not name.
        Correction:  January 10, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about Takashi Ishihara, the former president of the Nissan Motor Company, misstated the date of his death. It was Dec. 31, not Dec. 28.
      