
        David A. Brody, a Washington lobbyist for Jewish causes who was so well connected he became known to some as ''the 101st senator,'' died Saturday at a hospice in Washington. He was 88.
        The cause has not been determined, his wife, Beatrice, said. He had a series of strokes over the last years of his life.
        For 40 years, Mr. Brody represented the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith in issues before Congress. On the domestic front he pressed for civil rights legislation, and in foreign affairs he battled for Israel's interests.
        Mr. Brody's friendships crossed ideological lines, from Senator Strom Thurmond on the right to Senator Edward M. Kennedy on the left. Sometimes a half dozen or more senators showed up at his home for dinner parties, and Rolf Pauls, former German ambassador to Washington, once said he had seen more senators in Mr. Brody's home than on the Senate floor.
        Mr. Brody's forte was winning friends by introducing people he thought might benefit from knowing one another, from members of Congress to White House aides to ambassadors to reporters to fund-raisers and constituents. In an interview with The National Journal in 1985, he described himself as a ''facilitator or catalytic force.''
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1985, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale said, ''Dave Brody can get in and out of more senators' offices quicker than any person I have ever met in my life.''
        Mr. Brody was prone to forgive politicians who declined to take his advice, retaining them as valuable contacts. When the senior George Bush was vice president, he signed a photograph displayed in Mr. Brody's office, calling him ''oftentimes a strong ally, occasionally a worthy adversary, but always a friend.''
        David Allan Brody, the son of an immigrant garment worker, was born in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn where he grew up. He graduated from the City College of New York and Columbia Law School.
        In 1940, he went to Washington to work in the solicitor's office of the Rural Electrification Administration in the Agriculture Department. He left in 1943 to work for three years in the Navy as a legal assistance officer.
        He then returned to the Agriculture Department, which he left in 1949 to become the Washington counsel of the Anti-Defamation League. In March 1977, Mr. Brody was one of more than 100 hostages held for 39 hours by Hanafi Muslims in B'nai B'rith's national headquarters in Washington. Although the hostages were threatened with rifles, pistols and machetes, Mr. Brody joked later that the experience helped him remember his wedding anniversary, which fell on the day of the hostages' release.
        In addition to his wife, the former Beatrice Kramer, Mr. Brody is survived by his son, Michael, of Reston, Va.; his daughter, Ann Brody of Port Jefferson, N.Y.; his brother, George, of San Diego; and three grandsons.
      