
        Victor Reuther, the last of three brothers who helped unionize Detroit amid the labor strife of the 1930's and remained central to the growth of industrial unionism for the next third of the century, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 92.
        His death was announced by his family and Ron Gettelfinger, president of what is now the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America in Detroit, which says it has 710,000 active members in the United States and Canada.
        Victor, along with his older brothers Roy and, especially, Walter, was at the center of a momentous struggle for union contracts to improve wages and working conditions. Victor Reuther, the more intellectually oriented, left-leaning sibling, came to represent the union's educational aspirations for its members. More important, he was its envoy on the international stage.
        The Reuther brothers helped to build the union, originally known as the United Automobile Workers and still known as the U.A.W., as an agent representing assembly-line workers. While their work initially focused on automobile workers in the United States, it had a national and international impact both within and beyond the labor movement.
        The U.A.W. now represents workers in disparate sectors of the economy, ranging from small manufacturers to multinational corporations, as well as colleges, hospitals and nonprofit organizations.
        Walter Reuther, who was also a power in the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, was president of the U.A.W. from 1946 until his death in a plane crash in 1970. Roy Reuther was the union's political representative and legislative director; he died in 1968.
        Victor Reuther honed his activism as an orator and an organizer of sit-down strikers. He shaped the union's educational programs throughout the country, establishing labor institutes, radio and film production units and the union's own drama schools and summer camps.
        Later, from 1955 until his retirement in 1972, he was director of the union's international affairs department in Washington, while also supervising legislative affairs as head of the Washington office.
        In his book ''The Brothers Reuther and the Story of the U.A.W.: A Memoir'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1976), he recalled the often bloody confrontations of earlier times.
        ''During his years as a trade union activist,'' Mr. Gettelfinger, the union's president, said yesterday, ''Victor displayed great personal courage and endured great personal risk for the right of workers to organize. He faced tear gas and billy clubs during the U.A.W. organizational campaigns of the 1930's, and was a victim of an assassination attempt in 1949.''
        On that occasion, Mr. Reuther and his wife, Sophia, had just returned from Europe. A shotgun was fired through their living room window as they sat reading one night, in an attack that resembled an attempt on his brother Walter's life the year before.
        Victor was struck in the face and neck and blinded in one eye. Weeks later he addressed the U.A.W. convention. The crime was never solved.
        As director of international affairs for the U.A.W., Mr. Reuther forged links with noncommunist labor movements led by figures like Harold Wilson of Britain and Willy Brandt of Germany. He opposed the rigid anticommunist stance personified by George Meany of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian and author of ''Walter Reuther: The Most Dangerous Man in Detroit,'' said Victor Reuther had been an architect of an alliance that, in effect, paved ''the road to the end of the cold war.''
        Victor George Reuther was born in Wheeling, W.Va., the son of a steel and brewery worker. His father was a local labor leader who taught his sons the basics of organization and public speaking.
        Victor studied economics and sociology at the University of West Virginia and Wayne State University in Detroit, where he roomed with Walter. The two pooled their savings and, in 1933, started bicycling their way through Europe.
        They worked in an automobile plant in Russia and at sea, before returning home by way of India and Japan. Victor started on the assembly line at the Kelsey Hayes Wheel Company, where he helped organize West Detroit Local 174 of the new automobile workers' union in 1936.
        That year he was a leader of a sit-down strike there, employing a tactic he and his brother had observed in France. It won the union recognition and a wage increase at Kelsey-Hayes. It also increased the local's membership from 78 to 30,000 within months, according to the union's own history.
        Victor Reuther moved on to Flint, Mich., where the U.A.W. and General Motors faced off in December 1936, with Mr. Reuther in charge of planning strategy for 50,000 strikers. After the union won a contract there, he played a central role in a four-year campaign that resulted in the unionization of the Ford Motor Company.
        In World War II he was a labor member of the federal War Manpower Commission. He was also a co-director of the U.A.W.'s war policy division, which promoted amicable settlements of labor disputes lest they shut down war production.
        He was closest to his brother Walter in internal union fights between the noncommunist wing and leftist radicals. At a crucial 1946 convention, the union's noncommunist faction elected Walter Reuther president and Victor Reuther educational director.
        Mr. Reuther's wife, Sophia Goodlavich Reuther, also a social activist and union organizer, died in 1996 after nearly 60 years of marriage. He is survived by two sons, Eric V., of Fort Myers, Fla., and John S., of Moscow and Manhattan; a sister, Christine Richey of Redding, Mass.; and seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 9, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Victor Reuther, the last of the three brothers who founded the United Automobile Workers union, misspelled the name of the city where his surviving sister, Christine Richey, lives. It is Reading, Mass., not Redding.
      