
        Francis Brunn, who cared little that he was often described as one of the half-dozen best jugglers of the 20th century, because his art, he said, transcended mere juggling, died on May 28 at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of heart surgery, said his sister Lottie Chirrick, herself a famous juggler.
        Mr. Brunn, who lived in Manhattan, brought new twists, often quite literally, to an art that goes back at least to ancient Egypt and Greece, and showed them off to audiences from the Palace Theater to the White House. After he performed before the queen of England in 1963, The Evening Standard called his show ''almost painfully exciting.''
        When the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus brought him to America in 1948, he became the first juggler ever to work the center ring as a solo headliner.
        At the beginning of his career, Mr. Brunn, a former gymnast, was celebrated for lightning speed in juggling a dozen objects simultaneously. But later, he perfected an austere but demanding minimalism. He was fascinated by controlling just one ball, and virtually compelled audiences to share this fascination.
        ''It sounds like nothing,'' he said, ''but it is quite difficult to do properly.''
        Especially if the one-ball trick was to defy gravity by making the ball travel from his toe up his entire body by moving only his legs and torso.
        In another dazzling trick, Mr. Brunn would spin a ball on his right hand and hold another ball on the back of his neck. He rolled the ball down his back and kicked it with his heel over his head to a dead-on balance with the spinning ball.
        Large numbers of objects posed scant problem. He was believed to be the first juggler in the world to put up 10 hoops.
        ''Trying to describe Brunn's act is like trying to describe the flight of a swallow,'' Francisco Alvarez wrote in ''Juggling: Its History and Greatest Performers.''
        Mr. Brunn added to the effect by dancing a snappy flamenco, heel clicks and all, as he contended with what the audience could only perceive as aerial chaos.
        Mr. Brunn did not hope for applause.
        ''I do not consider myself doing tricks,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1983. ''There is one movement for eight minutes. It's supposed to be, let's say, like a ballet. It would be impossible for me to start in the middle. I would love if the audience is so fascinated that nobody applauds in the end.''
        Francis Brunn was born on Nov. 15, 1922, in Aschaffenburg, near Frankfurt. His father, Michael, had been in a French prison camp during World War I and from behind the barbed wire had seen a circus juggler warming up. He took three stones and copied him, later using oranges to show the trick to Francis and Lottie.
        As a boy at the Performing Arts School in Berlin, Francis added juggling to his acrobatics and wrestling training. Playing soccer helped him learn to balance the ball.
        When a small stage show visited the village of Rossdorf, where the family lived, in 1939, the juggling siblings were asked to join in. Soon, they were playing circuses, variety halls and clubs around Europe. In 1947, John Ringling North saw them in Spain and invited them to join his circus.
        When the circus visited Manhattan in 1950, Brooks Atkinson, the chief theater critic of The Times, wrote that he could not quibble with Ringling's assertion that Mr. Brunn was ''the greatest juggler of the ages.''
        The review continued: ''Not many people in the world are as perfectly adjusted as Mr. Brunn is. He will never have to visit a psychiatrist.''
        Lottie Brunn left show business to marry in 1951, after which her brother became a regular on ''The Ed Sullivan Show,'' played the Palace with Judy Garland and went twice to the White House, where President Dwight D. Eisenhower proclaimed him the best juggler he had ever seen.
        In addition to his sister Lottie, of Milton, Pa., Mr. Brunn is survived by his companion and stage assistant, Nathalie Enterline; a son, Raphael, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Christina Price of Englewood, N.J.; two sisters, Jutta Merkado of Huntington, Conn., and Anni Weisshaupt of Elmwood Park, N.J.; and a grandson.
        Mr. Brunn's meticulousness was legendary. When he became interested in flamenco, he went to 30 straight dance performances. He had his juggling sticks made by a cousin who made ball bearings for Mercedes-Benz steering wheels. His practice schedule was so rigid that he pulled over on highways to juggle at the appointed hour.
        ''I know he's up there now rehearsing,'' Ms. Enterline said.
      