
        Rodger Ward, a two-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 and one of auto racing's most prominent figures of the late 1950's and 60's, died Monday at a hospice in Anaheim, Calif. He was 83.
        His death was announced by the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, which said he had been in failing health for several months.
        From 1959 to 1964 Ward was a dominant driver in the Indy 500, then the nation's most prestigious auto race. He vied with stars like A.J. Foyt, Parnelli Jones and Jim Rathmann, winning the race in 1959 and 1962 and finishing second twice, third once and fourth once in that six-year span.
        He won 2 United States Auto Club championships and 26 Champ Car races and was in the top 10 of all Indy 500 statistical categories when he retired from open-wheel racing in 1966.
        But before his triumphant times, he had almost quit racing, having been anguished over touching off the multicar crash that killed his friend Bill Vukovich, the two-time defending Indy champion, in the 1955 race.
        ''My front axle broke,'' Ward told The New York Times in 1963, recounting the accident. ''I hit the outside retaining wall and flipped three times. I barrel-rolled and lit on my wheels, facing in the wrong direction.''
        Three other cars crashed trying to avoid Ward's car, then Vukovich, leading and lapping cars, hit the wreckage. His Hopkins Special went over the wall and burst into flames, killing him at age 36.
        Ward escaped ''with a mark on my helmet, a cut on my nose and a bruise on my right arm.''
        He told of the emotional impact in a 1999 interview on the Indianapolis 500's Web site.
        As he put it, thinking of Vukovich: ''He'd have said, 'Well, it's another racing accident.' But that's not the way I looked at it. To me, it was an absolute disaster. I wasn't sure I even belonged in racing, you know, because we were such good friends and the fact that he lost his life and everything.''
        Ward said he decided to continue racing only after being consoled by Vukovich's family when he attended the funeral in Fresno, Calif.
        ''They said: 'Look, Rodger, things happen. He would be upset if in fact you decided to retire,''' Ward said. ''I said, 'Well, maybe you're right.'''
        Ward, who began racing in the Indy 500 in 1951, enjoyed little success in his first eight races at the Brickyard, finishing only once, when he placed eighth in 1956. But he turned his career around in 1959 when he joined up with the car owner Bob Wilke of Milwaukee, a paper products and greeting card manufacturer, and A.J. Watson, a builder and mechanic. They formed Leader Car Racing and were known as the Flying W's.
        Ward won the 1959 Indy with an average speed of 135.857 miles an hour, a record, finishing ahead of Rathmann by 23.27 seconds. The next year, Rathmann bettered Ward by only 12.67 seconds after a stirring duel. Ward won in 1962 by 11.52 seconds, beating out his Leader Car teammate Len Sutton.
        Ward, a native of Beloit, Kan., moved with his family to Los Angeles as a youngster, and at 14 he built a hot rod with parts from his father's wrecking and junkyard business.
        He served as a pilot in the Army Air Forces during World War II, then returned to Southern California, raced midget cars and won the AAA stock-car championship in 1951.
        Soon after his second Indy 500 victory, Ward fractured his spine when his car plunged into a 12-foot ditch during practice for a sports car event at Riverside Raceway in California. But he returned to Indy racing, appearing at the Brickyard for the last time in 1966, when he finished 15th.
        He is survived by his wife, Sherrie; his sons, Rodger Jr., David and Rick; and a daughter, Robin.
        In Ward's fledgling days as a driver, the glamour of the Indy 500 might have seemed remote to him. But he was inspired by encouragement from Vukovich, as he recalled in the 1999 interview.
        ''I remembered the first time I ever met him,'' Ward said. ''We were at Phoenix, Ariz., driving the midgets at a little track over there. And I went pretty spectacular, and he came over and said, 'You know, kid, you might become a race driver someday if you stay alive.' To me that was the greatest compliment a guy could say to anyone.''
        Correction:  July 9, 2004, Friday  An obituary of the champion race-car driver Rodger Ward on Wednesday misstated the name of a team that sponsored him. It was Leader Card Racing, not Leader Car. Because of an editing error, the article also misspelled the surname of a team owner who was a partner of Ward's. He was Bob Wilke, not Wilkie.
      