
        John Cullen Murphy, the artist and illustrator who continued the Arthurian saga ''Prince Valiant'' in the Sunday comics for the last 34 years, died on Friday in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 85.
        Noted as much for its detailed backgrounds and costumes as for its well-researched story line, ''Prince Valiant'' was begun 67 years ago by Hal Foster, who passed it on to Mr. Murphy in 1970, when the series was at strip No. 1,760. Mr. Murphy carried it on until a few months ago, when he turned it over to his chosen successor, Gary Gianni, an illustrator in Chicago.
        King Features Syndicate, which distributes the strip, says it now appears weekly in 300 newspapers. Installment No. 3,517 was published on Sunday.
        Mr. Murphy, who lived in Greenwich, turned ''Prince Valiant'' into a family enterprise. Since 1979, its scripts have been written by his son Cullen Murphy, the managing editor of The Atlantic Monthly magazine. A daughter, Mairead Nash, known as Meg, has done the lettering and coloring for the last decade.
        The strip, which mines the literary tradition of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, was created at the suggestion of the newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst. Foster, who had also done the popular ''Tarzan'' strip, started an epic starring Derek, Son of Thane, which pleased Hearst, except for the name of the hero, whom he rechristened Prince Valiant.
        John Cullen Murphy was born in New York City on May 3, 1919, and grew up in Chicago and New Rochelle, N.Y. He started art classes at 9. In the summer of 1934, as he was playing baseball, a neighbor, Norman Rockwell, asked him to keep still so he could be drawn for a Saturday Evening Post cover. The experience thrilled the boy so much that he decided to become an illustrator.
        With Rockwell as a mentor, he earned a scholarship to the Phoenix Art Institute in New York and later studied with the anatomist George Bridgman at the Art Students League.
        He sold his first illustrations while still in high school. He drew boxers to publicize matches, sold his first cover illustration to the Knights of Columbus magazine before he was 20, and in 1940 sold a cover to the popular magazine Liberty.
        In World War II, Mr. Murphy served in infantry and antiaircraft units in the Pacific, rose to the rank of major and won a Bronze Star. He also drew and painted portraits of the soldiers and their commanders, as well as sketches of Japanese life, which were published in The Chicago Tribune.
        He then worked as an illustrator and cover artist for magazines, including Esquire and Collier's. In 1949, Mr. Murphy started ''Big Ben Bolt,'' a comic strip about a young boxer, which lasted almost 25 years.
        When Mr. Foster chose him to inherit ''Prince Valiant,'' Mr. Murphy immersed himself in that medieval world of warriors. Over the years he added characters found neither in Arthurian legend nor in Foster's embroidery on it.
        In addition to his son Cullen, of Medfield, Mass., and his daughter Ms. Nash, of Webster Groves, Mo., Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife of 53 years, Joan Byrne Murphy; two other sons, Finn, of Nantucket, Mass., and Brendan, of Manassas, Va.; four other daughters, Mary C. Murphy of Brookline, Mass.; Siobhan Grogan of Bozrah, Conn.; Byrne Sleeper of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and Cait Murphy of Manhattan; a brother, James T. Murphy of Alexandria, Va.; 18 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      