
        Hugh Barnett Cave, an English-born American writer who started turning out pulp fiction at 18 and kept it up for 75 years, died on June 27 at a hospice in Vero Beach, Fla., which he had entered a week earlier. He was 93 and lived in Sebastian, Fla.
        His death was announced by Milt Thomas, his Boswell, whose biography, titled ''Cave of a Thousand Tales,'' appeared this spring. Mr. Cave's latest novel, ''The Mountains of Madness,'' came out two months ago, and another book is ready for publication next year.
        From 1929 to his death, Mr. Cave wrote hundreds of Gothic, science fiction, hard-boiled detective, torrid romance, western, adventure, horror, supernatural and just plain weird tales, published in magazines, paperback and hardcover. He also wrote novels, poetry, travel books and military nonfiction in World War II.
        Other writers may have been equally productive in as many genres, but very few matched the success and professional reputation of Mr. Cave, who produced at least 1,000 pieces of fiction. They always sold well and are currently represented in bookstores, among them titles like ''Long Live the Dead: Tales From Black Mask,'' ''Shades of Evil,'' ''Bottled in Blonde: The Peter Kane Detective Stories,'' ''The Nebulon Horror'' and ''Murgunstrumm,'' a vampire story set in an eerie hotel.
        Mr. Thomas's ''Cave of a Thousand Tales: The Life and Times of Pulp Author Hugh B. Cave,'' published by Arkham House, expanded on an earlier account of Mr. Cave's career, ''Pulpman's Odyssey'' (1988) by Audrey Parente.
        Hugh Cave was born July 11, 1910, in Chester, England, and grew up in and around Boston. He was an insatiable reader from childhood. In line for a scholarship at Boston University, he had to work to support himself instead and at 17 got a job with a publisher.
        Among his chores was editing hopeless manuscripts submitted by would-be writers, prompting him to submit his own yarns. The first appeared just before his 19th birthday in Brief Stories.
        He established himself in the horror genre in 1930 when Astounding Stories printed ''The Corpse on the Grating.''
        He found novel twists, wrinkles and guises for staples like the haunted mansion, the lab experiment gone wrong, the family curse and vengeance from the tomb.
        He helped shape the supernatural horror fiction of that era, and as Stefan Dziemianowicz wrote in the ''St. James Guide to Horror, Ghost and Gothic Writers,'' he ''transformed rural American towns into Gothic landscapes, local powerbrokers into megalomaniacal fiends.''
        He wrote for publications like Ghost Stories, Strange Tales and Weird Tales, not to mention Horror Stories, Terror Tales and Spicy Mystery Stories. Some of the best stories were revisited in ''Murgunstrumm and Others'' (1977) and ''Death Stalks the Night'' (1995).
        In World War II, Mr. Cave turned to the subject of war and military men. With their cooperation he wrote, among other books, ''Long Were the Nights: The Saga of PT Squadron 'X' in the Solomons'' (1944); ''We Build, We Fight: The Story of the Seabees'' (1944); ''I Took the Sky Road'' (1945); and ''Wings Across the World: The Story of the Air Transport Command'' (1945).
        After the war, he took his family to Haiti in winters, a period reflected in well-received novels and travel books about Haiti and Jamaica, including ''The Cross on the Drum'' (1959), dealing with voodoo in Haiti. For once, Selden Rodman wrote in the The New York Times Book Review, it ''treats both the country and its African religious cult with profound sympathy.''
        Later, his ''weird'' stories usually came in the form of novels. He used ''Legion of the Dead'' (1979) to make clear the difference between the islanders' practice of voodoo for healing and worship and foreigners' misconception of it as black magic.
        Mr. Cave is survived by a son, Kenneth L., of Oak Harbor, Wash., and a grandson. He was long estranged from his wife, Margaret Long Cave, who died in 2002. His companion, Peggie Thompson, died in 2001.
      