
        R.W. Burchfield, an internationally renowned lexicographer who wrestled the Victorian behemoth known as the Oxford English Dictionary into the era of ''wimmin,'' ''sexploitation'' and ''microwave oven,'' died on Monday at Abingdon Community Hospital in Abingdon, England. He was 81.
        Mr. Burchfield, who lived in Sutton Courtenay, in Oxfordshire, had been ill with Parkinson's disease for some time, his wife, Elizabeth Burchfield, said.
        Chief editor of the Oxford English Dictionaries from 1971 to 1984, Mr. Burchfield was best known for overseeing the dictionary's four-volume supplement, an undertaking of nearly 30 years.
        He was also known for his unorthodox edition of the grammarian's bible, Fowler's Modern English Usage, which provoked heated, hyperarticulate debate when it appeared in 1996.
        Published from 1972 to 1986, the supplement augmented the original O.E.D. by more than 60,000 words, including scientific terminology, trademarks and English vocabulary from around the globe.
        It also added obscenities and racial epithets, a decision that would land Mr. Burchfield in court, provoke a threat on his life and illuminate the fundamental nature of the lexicographer's art.
        A balding, scholarly man who captivated the public in television and radio appearances but could drive the dictionary's staff with relentless intensity, Mr. Burchfield never meant to be a lexicographer.
        Robert William Burchfield was born Jan. 27, 1923, in Wanganui, New Zealand. In 1949, after earning an undergraduate degree at Victoria University College in Wellington, he accepted a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford.
        There, he read Medieval English literature with C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien. He also met C.T. Onions, who had supervised the O.E.D. after the death of its legendary editor, James Murray, in 1915.
        Mr. Burchfield expected to lead a life of blissful scholarly obscurity. Mr. Onions had other plans. After a hiatus of nearly three decades, work on the O.E.D., published between 1884 and 1928, was gearing up again. In 1957, Mr. Burchfield was hired to edit the supplement. Nothing could prepare him for the heft of the job.
        Oxford University Press, the dictionary's publisher, expected the supplement to comprise a single volume of 1,275 pages and take seven years to complete. Instead, it ran to four volumes, 6,000 pages and 29 years.
        ''I moved,'' Mr. Burchfield told The Chicago Tribune in 1986, ''with the speed of an electric hare.''
        Nothing could prepare him, either, for the level of public passion his tweedy profession aroused.
        When the O.E.D. established a telephone hot line for the lexically perplexed, calls flooded in. A sign painter left his post to ask whether ''accommodation'' had two m's. A frantic Scrabble player phoned from New Zealand to inquire into the legality of ''vee.'' (''Vee,'' the 22nd letter of the alphabet, was in.)
        Conceived in 1858, the original O.E.D. was every inch a Victorian enterprise. Though its editors had agonized over whether to include terms of scatology, sexual congress and racial opprobrium, delicacy won the day. With the exception of a very few entries late in the alphabet, when the restrictions had begun to ease (a breathtakingly vulgar synonym for ''kestrel'' can be found in the W's), offensive terms were excluded.
        It fell to Mr. Burchfield to put them back. ''As it happens, the two key taboo words both start with letters towards the beginning of the alphabet,'' John Simpson, the O.E.D.'s current chief editor, explained in a telephone interview. ''It was a major point of interest to the first volume of the supplement that it did include a full historical coverage of the two words.''
        Even more troublesome were ethnic terms, like ''street Arab'' and ''Jew down.'' In the early 1970's, a Jewish businessman sued Oxford University Press, seeking an injunction against publishing the derogatory definition. The suit raised fundamental questions about the lexicographer's job: should the dictionary-maker be a warder, protecting the public from offensive words? Or should he be a watcher, recording language as it is really used?
        Mr. Burchfield, despite having received a death threat during the trial, argued strenuously for the second position. The British High Court concurred.
        The words stayed in, with Mr. Burchfield ensuring their pedigrees were carefully documented. ''Jew'' as a term of opprobrium, denoting ''a grasping or extortionate person,'' is traced in meticulous detail to the early 17th century.
        ''If you look at the entry in the supplement, it's enormous, much larger than most entries,'' said Jesse Sheidlower, the O.E.D.'s North American editor. ''And the reason was, he wanted to make absolutely clear that it was not something that was put in because they were anti-Semitic or because they thought it was funny, but that they had a lot of evidence for it.''
        After retiring from the dictionary, Mr. Burchfield turned his attention to grammar, heavily rewriting Henry Watson Fowler's 1926 classic. Some critics attacked his detached, lexicographer's stance: a grammarian, they argued, was supposed to tell people what to do. (The Guardian, however, wrote recently that Mr. Burchfield was ''positively thrilling on the distinction between 'shall' and 'will.''')
        Mr. Burchfield, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his second wife, the former Elizabeth Knight; by two daughters and a son from his first marriage; and eight grandchildren. His other books include ''The English Language'' (1985) and ''The Spoken Word'' (1981).
        A lexicographer to the core, Mr. Burchfield even marked the passage of time alphabetically. In 1986, his work on the supplement at an end, he told The New York Times: ''I took particular delight when we arrived at such words as 'yo-yo' and 'yuck.' When we reached 'zilch' and 'zillionaire,' it was like having the finishing tape in sight in a marathon run and we were entering the stadium.''
      