
        Stanley M. Gortikov, a music industry executive who was the longtime president of the Recording Industry Association of America, died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, his wife, Barbara, said. He was 85.
        Mr. Gortikov was president of the association for 15 years, beginning in 1972. As a trade group, it represents most record labels, and Mr. Gortikov headed it while some of the biggest problems now facing the music industry first came to the fore, including piracy, home recording and parental concerns about explicit lyrics.
        In 1985, the Parents Music Resource Center -- which included Tipper Gore, the wife of Senator Al Gore, and Susan Baker, the wife of Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III -- sent a letter to Mr. Gortikov complaining about profanity in pop music.
        The group requested that an ''X'' be put on records that included sexually explicit lyrics, and also suggested that some musicians not be allowed to record, asking labels to reconsider artists who engage in violence, substance abuse or explicit behavior in concerts that minors are allowed to attend.
        The issue was hotly debated that year in Senate subcommittee hearings and in the press, with many musicians saying the conditions violated their First Amendment rights. Mr. Gortikov rejected many of the parents group's demands as impractical but agreed to mark albums that included explicit lyrics with a special label. That warning remains in use today.
        Mr. Gortikov was the president of Capitol Records from 1968 to 1969 and president and chief executive of Capitol Industries, the record label's corporate parent, from 1969 to 1971. Before entering the music industry, he was an advertising copy writer and executive.
        He was born in Los Angeles and graduated from the University of Southern California, where he was the editor of The Daily Trojan. He served in the Army during World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Gortikov is survived by a daughter, Jane Bachrach of Colorado; two sons, Jim, of Los Angeles, and Scott, of Boston; a stepson, Jeff Stander of Seattle; and three stepdaughters, Julie Stander of Portland, Ore.; Jaxi Rothman of Lewisburg, Pa.; and Johanna Duprey of Vancouver, British Columbia.
      