
        William K. McClure, the first European producer for ''60 Minutes'' and the producer of some of its Emmy Award-winning segments, died on July 2 on the island of Sardinia, where he had a summer home. He was 81 and lived in London.
        His death was announced by CBS News, where he worked from 1951 until his retirement in 1992. After retirement, he worked as a freelance producer and finished work on a Picasso documentary a few weeks ago, the network said.
        A native of Knoxville, Tenn., William Kyle McClure attended the University of Tennessee and Catholic University in Washington before entering the Army Signal Corps and serving with a film unit in Europe and Japan.
        In 1948, Pathe News sent him back overseas as its Berlin correspondent to cover the Soviet blockade of that city. From 1951 to 1958, he was European correspondent for Edward R. Murrow's ''See It Now'' news series on CBS, and for the next 10 years he was based in London, producing documentaries for the ''CBS Reports'' program.
        Mr. McClure was the producer of notable programs like ''D-Day Plus 20,'' with Walter Cronkite, in 1964, and the Emmy-winning 1968 documentary on aging, ''Don't Count the Candles,'' filmed by Lord Snowdon.
        He became European producer for ''60 Minutes'' in 1968 and remained with the program for 34 years, continuing as a freelance producer for this and other projects after his retirement.
        He organized a staff in London and initially worked on segments of ''60 Minutes'' reported by Mike Wallace and Harry Reasoner. Eventually, he worked with nearly all of the program's correspondents.
        Other Emmy-winning productions he worked on were ''60 Minutes'' segments about the Mafia in Palermo (1981), the radioactive town of Chernobyl in Ukraine (1990) and the poppy fields of Turkey (1972).
        Mr. McClure is survived by his wife of 58 years, Jane Gittins McClure; two daughters, Katharine McClure of Fort Lee, N.J., and Annie McClure of London; two sons, Robert, of Flagstaff, Ariz., and David, of London; and a brother, Wallace, of Knoxville.
      