
        Oved Shifriss, a plant breeder and geneticist whose development of hybrid vegetables in the 1940's, particularly for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, helped ignite the national boom in hobby gardening, died June 25 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Jordan Uzi Shifriss, said.
        From 1942 to 1950, Dr. Shifriss was the director of vegetable research for Burpee, in Warminster, Pa., where he developed 12 varieties, including early hybrids of cucumber, eggplant, muskmelon and watermelon.
        But it was his creation of the Big Boy tomato in 1949 that revolutionized home gardening, particularly the arduous art of growing tomatoes, said George Ball, the chief executive of Burpee.
        ''Up until Oved bred the Big Boy, the tomato was very much the preoccupation of an aficionado hobbyist,'' Mr. Ball said. ''The Big Boy was the most significant innovation we ever did.''
        Until the advent of the Big Boy, tomatoes were a hugely popular but time-intensive crop that flourished only under the painstaking dedication of gardeners diligent enough to spend hours staking their 15-foot vines, fertilizing to accommodate their persnickety soil preferences and protecting their delicate constitutions from disease.
        An unconventional thinker amid the more conventional plant breeders, Dr. Shifriss spent much of the 1940's combining thousands of experimental pollinations between different pairs of tomato ''parents'' until he finally hit on ''one big, huge bonanza,'' as Mr. Ball called it: a plant that was disease resistant, compact and bushlike rather than being a sprawling vine and that produced an abundance of full, fragrant fruit that could weigh more than a pound.
        ''It was a quantum leap in performance that opened the door for amateur activity,'' Mr. Ball said. ''Suddenly anybody -- Mom, Dad, the Boy Scout next door -- could garden with the tomato. For gardening, it was as innovative as the V-8 engine or the microchip.''
        After leaving Burpee, Dr. Shifriss moved to Israel, where he founded and directed the plant genetics program at the Weitzmann Institute of Science in Rehovot. He lived there for the next six years, working on his own research as well as aspects of growing the castor bean for the production of plastics and petroleum substitutes.
        In 1958, Dr. Shifriss joined Rutgers University, where he taught until retiring in 1984. At 88, he could be found in research fields and greenhouses, working to maintain the viability of his seed collection and pursuing his lifelong dream of devising a new squash variety that he hoped to turn into a world crop on a par with corn, rice and potatoes.
        Born in Ein Ganeem, in what is now Israel, Dr. Shifriss attended the Hebrew University before boarding a ship in Alexandria, Egypt, in 1936 and heading to the United States. He completed his undergraduate degree in agriculture at the University of California, Berkeley, and his doctorate in plant breeding at Cornell.
        In addition to his son, of Bloomington, Ind., Dr. Shifriss is survived by a daughter, Noga, of Hertzilia, Israel, who is also known as Gigi; two brothers, Chen, of Gani Yehuda, Israel, and Reuven, of Petach Tekva, Israel; and three grandchildren.
        That Dr. Shifriss's father had immigrated to what would become Israel from Odessa in Ukraine was not irrelevant in the development of the Big Boy, whose genetic heritage remains a ''trade secret,'' Mr. Ball said. ''Some of the greatest-flavored tomatoes are from the Ukraine, like the Black Krim, a dark purply-green tomato. So when you talk about tomatoes from the Ukraine and the mystery of the Big Boy, you're getting warm.''
      