
        Albert V. Casey, who guided American Airlines through turmoil in the 1970's and 80's and later took on the task of managing the country's failed savings and loans institutions, died on Saturday at his home in Dallas. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a close friend, Dennie Elizabeth Brumfield, who found Mr. Casey soon after he died.
        Mr. Casey's career took him from railroads and the presidency of the Times Mirror Company to airlines, a brief stint at the United States Postal Service, and banking.
        But one of his toughest assignments was leading American Airlines in a turbulent era brought on by financial problems and the Carter administration's decision to deregulate the industry.
        Mr. Casey began his business career in the railroad industry, joining American Airlines in 1974 from Times Mirror.
        American, founded 50 years earlier, was struggling with a heavy debt load and high costs stemming from the premium service that the airline, then based in New York, was known for. The appointment of an outsider as chief executive came as a surprise in the tightly knit company, surprising Mr. Casey too, recalled Robert L. Crandall, American's chief financial officer at the time, who later succeeded him as chief executive.
        Approached by a member of American's board, Mr. Casey replied, ''You've got the wrong Casey.'' He was referring to his brother John J. Casey, an executive at a competitor, Braniff International.
        Assured that American had the right brother, Mr. Casey came to New York where he and Mr. Crandall spent hours going through books of statistics about American and its rivals. ''He didn't know anything about the business,'' Mr. Crandall said.
        But Mr. Casey was a fast learner. A gregarious man, whom Mr. Crandall described as an avid card player, Mr. Casey took a series of bold steps to address the financial problems, moving the airline's headquarters to the Dallas area in 1979.
        He did so after seeing that the industry would have to operate more efficiently than it had under the Civil Aeronautics Board, which dictated where airlines could fly and the fares they could charge.
        American, like many competitors, had concentrated its operations on the East and West Coasts and in major business centers, and featured service focused on direct flights.
        Under deregulation, Mr. Casey swiftly embraced the hub-and-spoke system, in which passengers were funneled from smaller airports to big ones, and then on to their destinations. Dallas, where Braniff had largely abandoned its operations, became the perfect home base for the new system because it was away from the heavily trafficked coasts, Mr. Crandall said.
        Jovial, with a good memory for names, Mr. Casey enjoyed the constant travel his job required, both to American's far-flung operations and to Washington, where he supervised lobbying efforts.
        He retired as chief executive in 1985 and remained on the airline's board until 1991. He was often stopped in airports by American employees, Ms. Brumfield recalled. ''He was as nice to the baggage handlers as he was to the pilots,'' she said.
        Albert Vincent Casey was born in Arlington, Mass., in 1920. His father, John Casey, owned a construction company, while his mother, Norine, was an educator. In 1933, she founded the Bartlett School, a private nursery and elementary school, which is still in operation in Waltham, Mass.
        Mr. Casey received his bachelor's degree and M.B.A. from Harvard. Between degrees, he spent four years in the Army in World War II.
        He is survived by two children, Peter, of New York, and Judith, of Brewster, Mass., and two grandsons. His wife, Elizabeth, whom he married in 1945, died in 1989.
        By then, Mr. Casey had left airlines for his second career in government and academia. He was named postmaster general in 1986 but left after six months to teach at Southern Methodist University, where he remained as an executive in residence until his death.
        In 1991, amid a series of banking scandals, he was appointed to run the Resolution Trust Corporation, which had been created to sell the assets of failed savings and loans. The job was considered one of the most difficult and undesirable in Washington. He headed the agency until 1993.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Casey was a member of the Postal Service's board of governors. He also wrote the book ''Casey's Law: If Something Can Go Right, It Should,'' published in 1997. In it, he outlined a series of tenets for business leaders.
        They included, ''Don't ever shut a door so hard it can't be opened again'' and, ''Hire talented people. One of them will be your successor.''
        Of Mr. Casey, Mr. Crandall said, ''Certainly in an age like we're living in today, when everybody seems to be a crook, Al Casey was anything but.''
        Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Albert V. Casey, a former chief executive of American Airlines, misstated the given name of his wife, who died in 1989. She was Eleanor, not Elizabeth.
      