
        Joe Gold, whose beachfront ''Mecca of bodybuilding'' in California led to a worldwide net of health-and-fitness muscle gyms, with Arnold Schwarzenegger among its prize clients, died Sunday in Marina Del Rey, in suburban Los Angeles. He was 82.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his longtime business partner, Mike Uretz, the president of World Gym. At his death, Mr. Gold remained active as the company's founding chairman and chief financial officer.
        Mr. Gold sold his original creation, along with the corporate name, in the early 1970's. He staged a comeback in 1977 when he set up World Gym, which now boasts of more than 300 franchises around the world.
        Mr. Gold opened Gold's Gym in the Venice section of Los Angeles in 1965. Among his clients was Mr. Schwarzenegger, now governor of California and a former Mr. Universe, who helped make Gold's Gym a household name when it was a setting for ''Pumping Iron,'' the 1977 film that increased bodybuilding's popularity.
        ''In 1968, when I first came to America, Gold's Gym was the gym where I first went to work out,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said yesterday. ''Gold's Gym was not only a training center, but it became a home to me.''
        Mr. Uretz said Mr. Gold '' ''set the tone for the gym -- a tough-minded place where the only music was grunting and sweating.''
        Joe Gold was born in East Los Angeles, the son of a junk dealer. While in his teens, he discovered the ''muscle beach'' of Santa Monica, where stuntmen, acrobats and bodybuilders were gathering, and became a charter member of its Muscle Beach Weightlifting Club. Working out with railroad ties and buckets of hardened concrete, he became a pioneer in a sport then considered esoteric and often misunderstood.
        After serving in the merchant marine and being badly wounded in Navy service in World War II, he returned to Muscle Beach. He designed and built the workout machines with which he opened his gym in 1965, offering novel equipment well beyond the old barbells and dumbbells.
        After he sold the business, it grew to become what is now Gold's Gym International, a chain with 670 outlets in two dozen countries.
        Mr. Gold never married and left no immediate survivors.
      