
        George W. Thorn, a physician whose work helped transform the treatment of kidney diseases and other disorders, notably Addison's disease, died June 26 at an assisted living center in Beverly, Mass., said his son, Weston. He was 98.
        Dr. Thorn was physician in chief at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, a forerunner of Brigham and Women's Hospital, from 1942 to 1972. He was known for his groundbreaking work on the diagnosis and treatment of Addison's disease, the debilitating disorder caused by failure in the adrenal glands that afflicted President John F. Kennedy.
        When Dr. Thorn began his work, in the 1940's, ''we were learning symptoms and putting names on diseases,'' said Dr. Joseph E. Murray, a surgeon and former Thorn colleague who shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1990 for work in organ and cell transplantation.
        ''He was curious,'' Dr. Murray said. ''He wanted to get to the bottom of things.''
        Though he was not a chemist, Dr. Thorn devised an early test for Addison's once known as the Thorn test; it measures adrenal function by introducing ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hormone, which is produced by the pituitary gland and normally stimulates the adrenals.
        He also pioneered the use of synthetic cortisone to treat Addison's, which typically causes weight loss and severe weakness. Previously, said Dr. George F. Cahill Jr., emeritus professor of medicine at Harvard, who worked with Dr. Thorn, patients were given crude adrenal extract from animals like pigs or cows, ''but still felt awful.''
        Dr. Thorn's work on cortisone and ACTH not only laid the groundwork for Addison's treatments used today but also led to advancements in the treatment of hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes.
        A meeting with the aviation tycoon Howard Hughes in the 1940's gave Dr. Thorn the opportunity to further his interest in medical research. While Hughes sought medical advice, Dr. Thorn helped persuade him to establish a trust devoted to research, and in 1953 the Howard Hughes Medical Institute was founded. Dr. Thorn became its director of research a few years later and was affiliated with the institute for nearly four decades, serving as its president from 1981 to 1984 and chairman from 1984 to 1990.
        Earlier, at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Dr. Thorn turned his focus to the promise of organ transplantation. In the late 1940's, he invited Dr. Willem Kolff from the Netherlands to demonstrate an early model of a dialysis machine. The device was perfected at Peter Bent Brigham, making possible the first successful kidney transplant operation, between identical twins, by a team led by Dr. Murray in 1954.
        Despite his successes, Dr. Thorn recognized the difficulties of organ transplants. In 1959, after organizing another successful kidney transplant, this one the first between fraternal twins, he told The New York Times, ''It will be easier to put a man into space than to do what we did here.'' Today kidney transplants are the second-most-common transplant operations, after transplants of the cornea.
        George Widmer Thorn was born in Buffalo on Jan. 15, 1906. He attended the College of Wooster in Ohio and received a medical degree in 1929 from the University of Buffalo. A longtime professor at Harvard Medical School, he held teaching posts at several others, including Johns Hopkins and the Royal College of Physicians in Britain, and was a founding editor of the medical textbook ''Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine.'' In 1986, the George W. Thorn Center for Endocrine Disorders was established at Brigham and Women's Hospital.
        Dr. Thorn was married to Doris Weston, who died in 1984, and later to Claire Hyman Steinert, who died in 1990. In addition to his son, who lives in New York, he is survived by two stepchildren, Alan Steinert and Susan Poverman, both of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      