
        Dr. William W. Stead, a scientist and health administrator whose studies of tuberculosis in nursing homes suggested that blacks could have a genetic susceptibility to the disease, died July 8 at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 85.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Dr. Richard B. Stead.
        Dr. Stead was the principal author of a 1990 study involving 165 nursing homes in Arkansas, where he was director of the State Department of Health's tuberculosis program for 25 years before retiring in 1998.
        The study, which was published in The New England Journal of Medicine, received national attention when it found that black patients were infected at nearly twice the rate of whites in the homes, a rate of 13.8 percent compared with 7.2 percent. Because the patients ate the same food and lived in similar conditions, Dr. Stead theorized that a genetic factor within lung cells could explain the differing levels of resistance. His theory challenged explanations that pointed to purely environmental causes.
        Dr. Lee B. Reichman, executive director of the National Tuberculosis Center at New Jersey Medical School, said the theory remained an open question, ''but is a landmark and still viable.''
        ''Stead's study was impressive and not politically correct at the time,'' Dr. Reichman said. ''We are still asking the same question about what causes one person to go on to get active tuberculosis, and one not to.''
        In earlier work in pulmonology in the 1950's, Dr. Stead and H.S. Wells devised the Stead-Wells spirometer, which is used to measure pulmonary function in lung patients.
        William White Stead was born Jan. 4, 1919, in Decatur, Ga. He earned his undergraduate and medical degrees from Emory University.
        He taught at Marquette University and the Universities of Cincinnati, Minnesota, Florida and Arkansas, which named him a professor of medicine in 1972.
        The next year, he also became director of the state's tuberculosis program. In 1988, Dr. Stead was awarded the Trudeau Medal of the American Thoracic Society and American Lung Association.
        He won the James D. Bruce Award from the American College of Physicians the same year.
        Dr. Stead's first marriage ended in divorce. Besides his son, of Bellevue, Wash., he is survived by his second wife, the former Joan DeVore of Little Rock; a brother, Dr. Eugene A. Stead Jr. of Bullock, N.C.; two grandchildren; and three stepchildren.
      