
        Sir Richard May, the British judge who presided over the first two years of the war crimes trial of the former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, before falling ill early this year, died Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 65.
        He suffered from a brain tumor, friends of the family said.
        Sir Richard, a low-key barrister who received a knighthood a week before his death, joined the United Nations tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in 1997 and served on the bench in numerous cases. But he became best known as the judge in command of the complex Milosevic war crimes trial, the first of its kind for a modern head of state.
        High on the bench, wearing a crimson robe and peering over his glasses, he often had to engage in a test of wills with a defiant Mr. Milosevic.
        Sometimes prickly but mostly unperturbed, Sir Richard steered the proceedings, which covered charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide relating to the wars in Bosnia, Croatia and Kosovo during the 1990's. He regularly coaxed Mr. Milosevic, who has acted as his own lawyer, by prompting him on what questions to ask a witness.
        Two years into the trial, as the prosecution was about to rest its case, Sir Richard's grave illness forced him to step down.
        ''The Milosevic trial is a defining moment in international law, and Richard May made it into a professional trial, not just a performance,'' said Antoine Garapon, a former French judge who directs the Institute for Advanced Judicial Studies in Paris. ''And he did the near-impossible: he managed to engage the obstinate Milosevic and pull him in.''
        In a tribunal where the 16 judges include diplomats, academics and jurists from many countries, with different legal backgrounds, Sir Richard stood out as an experienced and practical judge.
        Theodor Meron, the tribunal president, said that Sir Richard had made major contributions in developing rules of procedure and evidence in the new field of international human rights law that ''significantly improved the work of the tribunal and will be of great value to all international criminal courts.''
        Richard George May, who was born in London in 1939 and graduated from Cambridge University, gained his experience first as a criminal prosecutor, then as a junior circuit judge in Oxford. He briefly entered politics, serving on the Westminster City Council, where he became an advocate for homeless children and supported low-income housing. In 1979, he ran as a Labor Party candidate for Parliament and lost to Margaret Thatcher. She, of course, went on to become prime minister and he went back to the law.
        In The Hague, Sir Richard was widely liked and admired by his colleagues, who called him a fair, self-effacing, kind, accessible and witty man who was a master of understatement. His wit was rarely visible in court, where he was careful to preserve decorum.
        Although he was eager to lead the three-judge panel hearing the Milosevic case, Sir Richard did not cherish the limelight that came with it. He would politely greet an approaching reporter, but he never engaged in conversation or granted interviews.
        Geoffrey Nice, the lead prosecutor in the Milosevic case, who said he had spent more than 500 days in court with Sir Richard over the course of several trials, called the judge ''a very generous and a very modest man, who never tried to grandstand or show off his great knowledge.''
        Rather, he said, Sir Richard used his knowledge to assist witnesses or defense lawyers to move the proceedings along.
        Sir Richard avoided confrontations with aggressive lawyers, but did not tolerate rudeness. He told one brash Serbian lawyer that ''courtesy is common to all continents.''
        But he usually chose to overlook the stridency of Mr. Milosevic -- ignoring, for example, the fact that the former Yugoslav president refused to stand up when addressing the court and insisted on calling him ''Mr. May.''
        Sir Richard resisted strong pressure from the prosecution to impose a defense lawyer on Mr. Milosevic, which would have simplified and sped up proceedings; he maintained that the right to self-defense had to prevail. But he reined Mr. Milosevic in at times by cutting off his microphone, or, after Mr. Milosevic had scoffed at the court during one outburst, by interrupting him to say, ''Your views about the tribunal are completely irrelevant.''
        Eventually, the two men seemed to reach a kind of truce, as Mr. Milosevic mellowed and Sir Richard kept urging him to avoid irrelevancies and be a better advocate of his case. But he also let Mr. Milosevic air his grievances against NATO for the bombing of Yugoslavia at points when it was not relevant.
        In the past year, Mr. Milosevic missed many court days because of high blood pressure and heart disease. What was not known was that Sir Richard, who never missed a day in court, was himself unwell. But he seemed determined to hold out until a break in the trial, as the prosecution neared the end of its case. His last day in court, Jan. 28, he seemed distracted and tired, but prodded Mr. Milosevic as usual. ''Just move on; let's not waste time,'' he said several times. Then, as prosecutors and the accused squabbled, Sir Richard said: ''That's all today. We have no further time.'' He picked up his binders and walked out for the last time.
        Sir Richard is survived by his wife, Radmila May, and their three children.
      