
        Émile Peynaud, a Bordeaux enologist who virtually invented the role of wine consultant, transforming the way wine is made and enjoyed, died on Sunday in his home outside of Bordeaux. He was 92.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Danièle Peynaud.
        More than any other individual, Dr. Peynaud helped to bring winemakers into the modern world. As a researcher and consultant, he applied rigorous scientific methods to a field bound more often by haphazard custom, guesswork and superstition. Much of the conventional wisdom in winemaking today can be traced directly to his recommendations, and the scores of globe-trotting consultants who today advise wineries on everything from grapes to barrels to labels owe their livelihoods to him
        ''There was really one world for winemakers before Émile Peynaud, and another world after,'' said Paul Pontallier, managing director of Château Margaux, in Bordeaux.
        At a time when growers typically harvested grapes early to prevent rot, Dr. Peynaud advocated delaying the harvest until the grapes were fully ripe. He urged winemakers to select only the best grapes for their wines, a difficult notion for many to accept at a time when quantity was often more important than quality. He advocated controlling temperatures during fermentation and insisted on improving hygiene in the cellar. He suggested that wineries develop less expensive labels for grapes that did not meet the standard of their top label.
        ''Professor Peynaud was the architect who sparked the revolution in Bordeaux wine quality that has flourished over the last several decades,'' said Robert M. Parker Jr., the American wine critic.
        Bordeaux producers and connoisseurs once believed that wines needed to be tough and unpleasant in their youth to have the potential to age and become great. Dr. Peynaud rejected the notion that a wine could only be enjoyed after years in the cellar. As a result, Bordeaux and most Bordeaux-style wines today are far more pleasing in their early years.
        ''He told us that a great old wine has to be a great young one,'' Mr. Pontallier said. ''He said the balance had to be there from the very beginning, from the grapes themselves.''
        Dr. Peynaud's work extended well beyond Bordeaux-style wines. He learned how to control malolactic fermentation, a secondary fermentation that takes place after the grape juice has already become wine, a crucial step in bottling stable wines.
        ''Until he did this, in around 1955, people had always guessed when it was finished, and then you had it taking place in the bottle, and you had fizzy wines,'' said Philip Togni, the California winemaker, who studied with Dr. Peynaud in the 1950's at the University of Bordeaux.
        As influential as he was as a scientist, Dr. Peynaud made perhaps his biggest mark as an adviser and consultant, working with wineries in Italy, Spain, Chile, Peru and California, as well as in Bordeaux. There his scores of clients included renowned chateaus like Lynch-Bages and Léoville-Las Cases, as well as Margaux.
        Dr. Peynaud was born in Bordeaux in 1912 and entered the wine business as a cellar worker before he became an enologist. World War II interrupted his career. He was captured by the Germans early in the war and spent most of the war in a prison camp, Mr. Togni said.
        He later became a professor of enology at the University of Bordeaux, and began advising wine makers in the late 1940's. He wrote two influential books, ''Knowing and Making Wine'' and ''The Taste of Wine.''
        In addition to his daughter, Dr. Peynaud is survived by his wife, Yvonne, and a son, Jean-Pierre.
        By all accounts, Dr. Peynaud was a modest man, not given to grand pronouncements or predictions. In the 1970's, his list of Bordeaux clients was said to be in the hundreds, and the story was told that if he merely slowed down his white Citro
      