
        Hubert von Sonnenburg, one of the world's leading painting conservators and chairman of paintings conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on July 16. He was 76.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said his wife, Renate von Sonnenburg.
        Known for conserving and cleaning some of the Met's prized paintings, including Rembrandt's ''Aristotle With a Bust of Homer'' and Velázquez's ''Juan de Pareja,'' Dr. von Sonnenburg was also a first-class sleuth who exposed numerous forgeries, fakes and misattributions.
        Born in Cologne, Germany, he studied art history, archaeology and paleography at the University of Munich. In 1952 he earned a Ph.D., writing his thesis on Greek mythology in 19th-century painting. After receiving his degrees, he trained as a paintings restorer for four years at the Bavarian State Galleries and worked as a research assistant at the Doerner Institute in Munich. From 1958 to 1959 he was an assistant to John Hell, a well-known restorer in London.
        In 1959 Dr. von Sonnenburg came to New York, where he became assistant conservator at the Met. He stayed there, overseeing a newly created paintings conservation department, until 1974, when he became director of the Doerner Institute. In 1991 he was made director general of the Bavarian State Paintings Collections, although he was still director of the institute.
        In addition to being an important research center for conservation studies, the Doerner Institute is an internationally known ''art detective agency,'' providing consulting, analysis and authentication services to the public. As director, Dr. von Sonnenburg was involved in a number of conservation activities, including restoring or cleaning important paintings by Raphael, Rubens, Manet, Velázquez, Rembrandt and Vermeer in both private and public collections.
        ''When restoring a painting,'' he once said, ''the question is not so much which solvent and chemicals or which new scientific methods and high-technology tools to use, but how the picture should look. Of course that is a matter of taste, tempered in part by the condition of the picture, but even more, it is a matter of understanding the art and the artist.''
        Dr. von Sonnenburg returned to the Met in 1991 as chairman of the paintings conservation department. He also helped organize several exhibitions at the museum. In 1995 he helped organize ''Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt,'' a show of paintings, prints and drawings by Rembrandt, his pupils and those who emulated his style. He was also involved that year in ''Goya in the Metropolitan Museum of Art,'' a chronological display of the Met's collection of Goyas, addressing issues like the reattribution of this Spanish master's paintings over time.
        Dr. von Sonnenburg is survived by his wife.
      