
        Dr. Edward J. Hoffman, a scientist whose early research in medical imaging helped create the positron emission tomography scanner, used to detect cancers and other diseases, died July 1 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his wife of 33 years, Carolyn G. Hoffman.
        Dr. Hoffman, who taught at U.C.L.A.'s school of medicine, began his research in the 1970's at Washington University in St. Louis. Working with Michael E. Phelps and others, he planned and constructed the scanner, which drew its technology from the nascent field of biomedical physics.
        When undergoing a PET scan, a patient is injected with molecules tagged with a small amount of radioactive material. The scanner then traces the molecules, which are often designed to mimic glucose, throughout the body, to determine where cancers, which consume glucose, reside.
        ''Ed Hoffman played a critical role in the scanner's design and the physics of its instrumentation, and grew the field,'' said Dr. Simon R. Cherry, a professor of biomedical engineering at the University of California, Davis, and a former student of Dr. Hoffman's.
        The scanner was in widespread use by the 1990's, and about 1,500 scanners are in use today, Dr. Phelps said. The technology has also been applied to diagnosing Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular disease.
        Dr. Hoffman later wrote academic papers explaining the science of the scanner in detail. He also worked to refine miniature cameras and probes employed in medical imaging.
        Edward Joseph Hoffman was born Jan. 1, 1942, in St. Louis. He was a graduate of St. Louis University and received his doctorate in nuclear chemistry from Washington University in 1970.
        After working at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital, he became an assistant professor of nuclear medicine at U.C.L.A.'s medical school in 1976. He was later a professor in the department of molecular and medical pharmacology. In 1996, he became director of the university's biomedical physics interdepartmental graduate program.
        Dr. Hoffman received the Medical Imaging Scientist Award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 2002. He twice won the Von Hevesy Prize of the World Congress of Nuclear Medicine and Biology, in 1978 and 1982. He was awarded a gold medal from the Society of Nuclear Medicine in 1986.
        Dr. Hoffman was elected president of the engineering institute's Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society in 2003.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his mother, Marcella, of St. Louis; four sisters, Patti Hoffmanand Linda Briesacher of St. Louis, Kay Trost of Plano, Tex., and Judy Archer of Florissant, Mo.; and two brothers, Jim, of St. Louis, and John, of Windsor, Mo.
      