
        Ronald Sukenick, an American writer whose work dealt playfully and self-referentially with the conventions of fiction, died on Thursday at his home in New York City. He was 72.
        The cause was inclusion body myositis, a rare muscle disease, said his wife, the writer Julia Frey.
        Mr. Sukenick tried to reflect what he saw as an American loss of faith in traditional values as expressed by the counterculture that evolved in the 1960's. His first novel, ''Up'' (Dial, 1968), was the story of a writer named Ronnie Sukenick who is writing a novel and believes that fiction is nothing more than markings on paper. The book ends with Ronnie telling the reader: ''I'm going to finish this today. ... I've had enough of this. I'm just playing with words anyway, what did you think I was doing?''
        In his next book, ''The Death of the Novel, and Other Stories'' (Dial, 1969), Mr. Sukenick explained that ''in the world of post-realism,'' all the absolutes of traditional fiction ''have become absolutely problematic.'' He continued: ''The contemporary writer -- the writer who is acutely in touch with the life of which he is a part -- is forced to start from scratch: Reality doesn't exist, time doesn't exist, personality doesn't exist.''
        In a review of the book that parodied the author's self-conscious technique, John Leonard wrote in The New York Times: ''The Reviewer wishes that Mr. Sukenick were not as interesting as Mr. Sukenick thinks he is. But Mr. Sukenick has an enormous amount of talent, and therefore is interesting, and the Reviewer begrudges him that.''
        Although not popularly accessible, Mr. Sukenick persisted throughout his life in pushing at the boundaries of fictional form, even playing with typography and the blank spaces between his printed words to represent what he saw as the breakdown in human communication. He came to be recognized both in academic circles and by his peers as a leading representative of innovation.
        The further darkening of his vision, always relieved by his sense of humor, was reflected in ''Long Talking Bad Conditions Blues'' (1979), in which a fragment of the book's single long sentence, broken into paragraphs, reads, ''no aims no expectations no hopes and liked it that way,'' and in his autobiographical nonfiction narrative ''Down and In: Life in the Underground'' (Beech Tree Books, 1987), a tour of the 1980's counterculture from the vantage point of Manhattan's bars.
        Using the leverage of his successful teaching career, he encouraged other writers with similar bents. In 1974 he helped start the Fiction Collective, a publishing cooperative, and in 1977 he founded the American Book Review to focus attention on writers outside the mainstream.
        In 2002, a year after the publication of his most recent novel, an e-book titled ''Cows'' (altX Press), he received the Morton Zabel Award for innovative writing from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, which cited him for pushing ''the formal possibilities of American fiction to its limits'' and in the process ''illuminating new pathways to the center of the human psyche.''
        He was born on July 14, 1932, in Brooklyn, where his father, Louis, was a dentist. He attended Midwood High School and Cornell and Brandeis Universities, receiving his doctorate in English literature in 1962. His thesis became his first published book, ''Wallace Stevens: Musing the Obscure'' (N.Y.U. Press, 1967), a study of the poet.
        Mr. Sukenick and his first wife, the former Lynn Luria, a poet, divorced in 1984 after 23 years of marriage. In addition to Ms. Frey, whom he married in 1992, he is survived by a sister, Gloria, of Manhattan.
        In 1956 Mr. Sukenick began his long teaching career as a lecturer at Brandeis. Later he taught at Hofstra, City College, Sarah Lawrence, and in France and Israel. From 1975 to 2002 he was a professor of English at the University of Colorado at Boulder, where he was also director of creative writing until 1977 and director of the publications center from 1986 to 1999.
        He was also a member of the executive council of the Modern Language Association and from 1975 to 1977 chairman of the board of the Coordinating Council of Little Magazines.
      