
        Dr. Edward B. Lewis, a geneticist whose landmark observations of fruit-fly genes shed light on embryonic development in humans and was recognized with a Nobel Prize in 1995, died July 21 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86 and lived in San Marino, Calif.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Dr. Welcome Bender, a former student of Dr. Lewis's at the California Institute of Technology, where he had been a member of the faculty since 1946.
        For a generation of scientists and students, the symbol of Dr. Lewis's research was a dramatic four-winged mutant of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, which typically has only two wings. In cross-breeding the flies and provoking genetic changes with chemicals and radiation, he isolated the four-winged mutations and began to identify a cluster of genes that regulate development of the insect's body segments.
        He eventually found that the linear arrangement of these genes on their chromosomes was in an order corresponding to the fly's body parts, an order that was later found to hold true for mice, humans and other vertebrates. The concept is known as the colinearity principle.
        ''It was as if he made evolution occur in real time,'' said Dr. Gerald R. Fink, a professor of genetics at M.I.T. and former director of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass. ''Ed Lewis worked to use genetics to show profound evolutionary strategies. There is no more remarkable evidence of that than his fruit fly with four wings.''
        Although Dr. Lewis received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1995, he began his studies of fruit flies as a high school student in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., in the 1930's, and the fly remained a principal interest throughout his career. He shared the prize with two scientists -- Eric F. Wieschaus of Princeton University and Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard of the Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology in Tübingen, Germany -- who tested thousands of fruit-fly genes in the 1970's in an attempt to classify them.
        ''The genes that Edward Lewis discovered have in fact the same order in our DNA as in that of the fruit fly, and they work in the same way,'' the Nobel Committee's presentation speech noted. ''The knowledge gained about the development of the fruit fly has thus been a prerequisite for the recent advances in understanding how vertebrates develop.''
        Dr. Wieschaus said his own work grew within an intellectual framework created by Dr. Lewis, central to which was ''the idea of single genes having significant impacts on the development of embryos.''
        ''It was his work that identified genes as being switches for a cell, to be turned on or off during development,'' Dr. Wieschaus said. ''We built on what he did.''
        In other work during the 1950's, Dr. Lewis studied the effects of radiation as he investigated X-rays, nuclear fallout and other sources as causes of cancer. He looked at medical records from survivors of the atomic bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as radiologists and patients exposed to X-rays, and concluded that health risks from radiation had been underestimated. Dr. Lewis published articles in Science and other journals and presented his findings before a Congressional committee on atomic energy in 1957.
        ''It was a political stance and an attempt to marshal evidence to argue that we had to be concerned about low doses of radiation as causes of cancer,'' said Dr. Bender, a professor of biological chemistry at Harvard Medical School. ''Ed knew there was no such thing as a dose without risk.''
        Edward B. Lewis was born May 20, 1918, in Wilkes-Barre. He spent a year at Bucknell University before transferring to the University of Minnesota, where he received an undergraduate degree in biostatistics in 1939. He earned his doctorate in genetics from Caltech in 1942, and received a master's degree in meteorology there the following year. Dr. Lewis served as a meteorologist with the Army Air Corps in the Pacific Theater before returning to Caltech in 1946, where he taught for more than four decades. He retired in 1988 but remained active in his lab until recently.
        Dr. Lewis was a former president of the Genetics Society of America, which awarded him its Thomas Hunt Morgan Medal, named for a 1933 Nobel laureate who also studied fruit flies. Dr. Lewis was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1989, he was named a fellow of the Royal Society in England.
        He was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1990. Dr. Lewis is survived by his wife, the former Pamela Harrah, who contributed to his early genetic research, and two sons; Keith, of Pleasant Hill, Calif., and Hugh, of Bellingham, Wash.
      