
        Frederick C. LaRue, a top Nixon campaign official who passed money from a secret White House fund to buy the silence of the Watergate burglars, died Saturday at a hotel in Biloxi, Miss. He was 75.
        His heart failed while he was reading a book, his son, Ike LaRue III, said. He lived in Biloxi and Jackson, Miss.
        Fred LaRue's career was intertwined with that of Richard M. Nixon from the time he transferred his considerable financial support to Nixon from the defeated presidential candidate Barry Goldwater in 1964. He was an architect of Nixon's successful strategy for capturing Southern votes and then a significant participant in the Watergate scandal.
        Mr. LaRue pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice in July 1973. He served a reduced sentence of four and a half months in federal prison in return for cooperating with prosecutors investigating the break-in at the Watergate complex, which housed the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee, on June 17, 1972.
        He was at the meeting in Key Biscayne, Fla., on March 30, 1972, where John N. Mitchell, the former attorney general who became head of Nixon's re-election campaign committee, and Jeb Stuart Magruder, Mr. Mitchell's deputy, approved a ''dirty tricks'' campaign, including the Watergate break-in.
        Mr. LaRue was also at the meeting after the break-in at which some of the same officials scurried to come up with money for the burglars. Mr. LaRue personally delivered payments.
        Nixon acknowledged his own involvement in the cover-up, but always denied advance knowledge of the break-in. In a heated exchange with Mr. Magruder in 2003, Mr. LaRue supported Nixon's claim of ignorance of the initial burglary.
        Mr. LaRue's main argument was that he had been in charge of the phone at a Florida meeting of the top campaign staff where the break-in was planned and was monitoring all calls. Nixon never called, he said in an interview with The Sun Herald, a Biloxi newspaper. Also, he said his personal relationship with Mitchell was so close that Mitchell would certainly have told him.
        Mr. LaRue denied suggestions that he was ''Deep Throat,'' the secret Watergate source used by Bob Woodward in his joint coverage of the scandal with Carl Bernstein for The Washington Post. Mr. LaRue said he believed the secret informer was an amalgam of several people, but Mr. Woodward has said that it is one person and that he will reveal that person's identity after his death.
        Mr. LaRue, whose family amassed a fortune in the oil business, played an important role with Nixon many years before Watergate. After contributing heavily to Goldwater's losing presidential campaign in 1964, he became a leading supporter of Nixon. In particular, he helped develop a ''Southern strategy'' for the Republicans to recapture Southern states from the Democrats.
        After Nixon's election in 1968, Mr. LaRue worked in the White House without title or salary. Partly through his friendship with Senator James O. Eastland, the Mississippi Democrat who was chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. LaRue helped to win confirmation for Nixon's nominees to the federal bench.
        ''He was an elusive, anonymous, secret operator at the highest levels of the shattered Nixon power structure,'' The New York Times reported in 1973. ''He is a man of personal mystery, too -- a latter-day character, it sometimes seemed, out of a Southern gothic novel.''
        Frederick Cheney LaRue was born Oct. 11, 1928, in Athens, Tex. His father, Ike Parsons LaRue Sr., whom Fred LaRue shot and killed in a Canadian duck-hunting accident in 1957, was a first cousin of Sid Richardson, the Texas oil and ranching tycoon.
        The elder Mr. LaRue had gone to jail for banking violations and moved to Mississippi to look for oil. His company discovered the giant Bolton field, which Fred's generation sold for $30 million in 1967.
        Fred LaRue spread money to local and national politicians, and, despite his shyness, acquired the nickname Bubba. He became a Republican national committeeman.
        In the end, Mr. LaRue was one of the first top Nixon aides to cooperate with prosecutors.
        ''LaRue had stressed that it was time for both of us to think about protecting ourselves and our families instead of continuing to worry about protecting Mitchell and the president,'' Mr. Magruder wrote in his 1974 book, ''An American Life: One Man's Road to Watergate.''
        Mr. LaRue is survived by his wife, Joyce Burleson LaRue; his sons Ike III, of Jackson, and Fred Jr., of Brandon, Miss.; his daughters Patricia LaRue of Arlington, Tex., Leslie LaRue of Manhattan, Grace Burleson LaRue of Crystal Springs, Miss.; his brother, Ike Jr.; his sister, Ruthie LaRue Owen of Jackson; and nine grandchildren.
        In the interview with The Sun Herald, Mr. LaRue guessed that the healthy regimen of his months in prison added 10 years to his life.
        ''The warden let me make a badminton court out of the volleyball court,'' he said. ''We had some of the best badminton players in the country.''
      