
        Prince Alfonso Hohenlohe-Langenburg, who turned the Spanish fishing village of Marbella into a glittery jet-set playground, died Dec. 21 at his home there, the town authorities told Agence France-Presse. He was 79.
        The cause was prostate cancer, the authorities told European newspapers. The prince's life was chronicled in American and European papers as the fairy tale it seemed to be.
        Between race cars, shark-fishing and dancing the twist with Grace Kelly, he somehow found time for considerable achievements, the best known being his opening in 1954 of the Marbella Club on the Costa del Sol, a destination that socialites quickly added to their short list of Biarritz, St.-Tropez and Capri.
        Affectionately known as the King of Clubs, he built other luxury resort developments in the Arabian Gulf, the Bahamas, the Philippines, Mexico and Miami. He also acquired the Volkswagen franchise for Mexico, the Volvo franchise for Spain and a car dealership in Texas. In his later years, he produced wine of international repute.
        Prince Alfonso's fame burned brightest in 1955, when he married Princess Ira von Fürstenberg, descendant of Charlemagne and heiress to the Fiat fortune, who was 15 and had received a special dispensation from Pope Pius XII because she was below the age of consent.
        High society's initial shrieks of scandal metamorphosed into unabashed delight over a wedding celebration that lasted 16 days, attracted 400 members of Europe's royal families and included 100 decorated gondolas.
        The New York Daily News Sunday Magazine noted that the bride was 45 minutes late. ''You're awfully late, dear,'' Prince Alfonso was heard to mutter in English.
        The marriage lasted five years and produced two sons before the princess ran off with Francisco Pignatari, one of Brazil's wealthiest industrialists and at the time a well-known playboy. Prince Alfonso brought adultery charges against Mr. Pignatari, causing him to spend several hours in a Mexican jail.
        The Principato, or little prince, as Prince Alfonso was known, pulled himself together and became one of the world's most eligible bachelors, taking up briefly with Ava Gardner and Kim Novak and going on to marry twice more.
        One of six children, the prince was born Alfonso Maximiliano Victorio Eugenio Alexandro Maria Pablo de la Santísima Trinidad y Todos los Santos in Madrid on May 28, 1924.
        He was baptized at the royal palace, with King Alfonso XIII, for whom he was named, and Queen Victoria Eugenia as godparents.
        His father was Prince Max Egon Maria Erwin Paul von Hohenlohe-Langenburg. His mother was Doña María de la Piedad Iturbe y Scholtz, a marquesa who at the time of her marriage owned a castle in Madrid, a hotel in Málaga and vast estates in Portugal and Mexico, according to The Daily Telegraph.
        Family fortunes were depleted through the loss of properties in Czechoslovakia because of World War I, in Mexico because of the Mexican Revolution and in Spain because of the Spanish Civil War. World War II devoured family estates in Germany.
        In 1947, Prince Alfonso's father sent him to look for money-making property in Andalusia. While traveling from Gibraltar to Málaga in a charcoal-powered Rolls-Royce Phantom, he and his uncle stopped for a picnic in Marbella. Prince Alfonso persuaded his father to sell some of his wine cellars to buy land there, selling it in turn to people with last names like Bismarck and Metternich.
        Prince Alfonso sold his own Marbella house to the Rothschilds in 1954 and converted a nearby farmhouse on a 24-acre estate into the Marbella Club. It became a mecca for Middle Eastern princes, Hollywood stars and the oldest families in Europe.
        The prince took personal interest in every aspect of his creation, from architecture to menus. Sammy Davis Jr. and other stars entertained, and the regular piano player, a friend of the prince, was a Spanish nobleman directly descended from 56 kings. The Duke and Duchess of Windsor were guests. Many visitors arrived by helicopter.
        But by the end of the 1970's, Marbella had become too popular for the prince's taste, and he sold most of his interest in the club.
        He became a winemaker and owner of a gourmet restaurant near Ronda, in Spain.
        Prince Alfonso is survived by his two sons from his first marriage, Prince Christopher and Prince Hubertus; a daughter, Princess Arriana, from his marriage to Jackie Lane, an actress, which ended in divorce, and another daughter, Desirée, from a relationship with Heidi Balzar.
        His third and last wife, Princess María Luisa, died in 2000.
        The prince led a very happy life, at least according to The Independent.
        ''I have lived in castles, in Venetian palaces and the world's finest hotels,'' the paper quoted him as saying. ''I have watched the sun rise over the beaches of five continents and I have looked into the eyes of the most beautiful women of the universe.''
      