
        Lalo Delgado, a poet whose writings about the hardscrabble existence of Latinos in the Southwest made him one of the grandfathers of the Chicano literary renaissance of the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday in Denver. He was 73.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Estevan Flores, a friend and executive director of the Latino/a Research and Policy Center at the University of Colorado at Denver.
        Abelardo Delgado, who used the nickname Lalo, arrived on the literary scene in 1969 with his ''Chicano: 25 Pieces of a Chicano Mind,'' a collection of poems widely read in the Chicano movement, offering vivid descriptions of the injustices suffered by many Mexican-Americans.
        Although Mr. Delgado was always writing, often scribbling poems on cocktail napkins and scraps of paper, he also taught Spanish in Denver, where he lived for much of the last three decades, and was recognized for his efforts to educate Latino immigrants on how to obtain citizenship in the United States.
        Mr. Delgado sometimes said that mixing writing and social activism was a product of his life. He was born in Chihuahua, Mexico, and grew up in a tenement in El Paso before moving to California and then Colorado.
        His time with Cesar Chavez organizing farmworkers influenced him, and his views on the bias affecting the advancement of Latinos in the United States were in his work.
        His most famous poem is ''stupid america,'' published in 1969:
        stupid america, see that chicano
        with a big knife
        on his steady hand
        he doesn't want to knife you
        he wants to sit on the bench and carve christfigures
        but you won't let him.
        stupid america, hear that chicano
        shouting curses on the street
        he is a poet without paper and pencil
        and since he cannot write
        he will explode.
        stupid america, remember that chicanito
        flunking math and english
        he is the picasso
        of your western states
        but he will die
        with one thousand masterpieces
        hanging only from his mind.
        Mr. Delgado's writings helped set the tone for much of the poetry and fiction produced by Chicano writers in the last 30 years, with echoes of his words heard in the work of Jimmy Santiago Baca of New Mexico, Ana Castillo of Illinois, Juan Felipe Herrera of California and others.
        Mr. Delgado's other books included ''It's Cold: 52 Cold-Thought Poems of Abelardo'' (1974) and ''Totoncaxihuitl, a Laxative: 25 Laxatives of Abelardo'' (1981).
        Mr. Delgado is survived by his wife of 51 years, Lola Estrada, of Arvada, Colo.; six daughters, Ana Duran of Arvada; Alicia Delgado of Lakewood, Colo.; Andrea Brady of Bloomfield, Colo.; and Amelia Cruz, Angelica Regla and Abby Vidal, all of Denver; two sons, Arturo, of Denver, and Alfredo, of Arvada; 19 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      