
        Rick James, the unabashedly bawdy funk-rock pioneer who had a run of hits, including ''Super Freak,'' from the late 1970's to the mid-80's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, his record company, Universal Motown, announced. He was 56.
        He was found yesterday morning by a housekeeper, a police spokesman said. The record company said Mr. James had apparently died in his sleep.
        With tight, swaggering grooves and a leering stage persona that was unrivaled even in the age of Prince and George Clinton, Mr. James was one of the biggest stars of the post-disco era. His hits, like ''Bustin' Out,'' ''Mary Jane,'' ''You and I'' and ''Give It to Me Baby,'' were paeans to debauchery and the women who made it possible.
        ''She's a very kinky girl,'' he sang in a salacious whine in ''Super Freak,'' ''the kind you don't take home to mother.''
        The tune was the centerpiece of his most successful album, ''Street Songs,'' released in 1981, which reached No. 1 on the R&B charts and No. 3 in pop.
        Borrowing heavily from Sly Stone, Stevie Wonder and the big-band electric funk innovations of Mr. Clinton's Parliament-Funkadelic, Mr. James was not the most original hit-maker of the era. When he performed in concert, he often made use of Parliament-Funkadelic's crowd-rocking chants.
        But what Mr. James took from his forebears he channeled with the judicious ears of a producer into a sexy, instantly recognizable new style he called ''punk-funk.'' Along with Prince and the producer Nile Rodgers, Mr. James helped usher funk music from the gritty and diffuse sound of the 70's into the sharp, bright, synthesizer-driven style of the 80's.
        And there was perhaps no better ambassador for the fast life described in Rick James's songs than Mr. James himself. In beaded braids and outrageous costumes that relied on tight leather and loose leopard skin, he embodied the unapologetic sexual excesses of the 70's in a manner that appeared sincere but could often veer into self-mockery.
        Mr. James's hits continued into the mid-80's, with ''Cold Blooded,'' a No. 1 hit on the R&B charts, and ''Ebony Eyes,'' a duet with Smokey Robinson, both from the 1983 album ''Cold Blooded,'' and ''Can't Stop'' in 1984.
        By the late 80's, Mr. James's career had started to founder, but he returned to the public eye in 1990, when the rapper MC Hammer sampled the bass hook from ''Super Freak'' for ''U Can't Touch This,'' which became one of the biggest sellers in hip-hop history. The song's blatant and unauthorized use of the sample prompted Mr. James to sue. The case was settled out of court, and Mr. James obtained writing credits on the song for himself and Alonzo Miller, his co-writer on ''Super Freak.''
        ''U Can't Touch This'' then won a Grammy Award for best rhythm and blues song, which Mr. James shared with MC Hammer and Mr. Miller. It was Mr. James's only Grammy.
        The stage was set for a big comeback, but instead Mr. James's career hit its lowest point with a series of drug-related misadventures that eventually landed him in jail. In incidents that were reported widely by the news media, he set himself on fire with a crack pipe and was arrested for assaults on two women; in one case the charges were later dropped.
        But in the second incident, Mr. James was arrested for cocaine possession and assaulting a woman who had met with him about a recording contract. Convicted of that charge, he was sentenced to five years in prison and served three before being released in 1996.
        Born James Johnson in Buffalo, he was the nephew of Melvin Franklin of the Temptations. He ran away from home as a teenager and later joined the Naval Reserve, but then deserted and fled to Toronto, where he formed a band called the Mynah Birds with Neil Young and Bruce Palmer, who would later move to Los Angeles and join Buffalo Springfield. The Mynah Birds ended when Mr. James was arrested for draft evasion.
        He spent the early 70's in Britain, where he had a blues group called Main Line, and returned to the United States to sign with Motown in 1977 as an artist, producer and songwriter. His debut album, ''Come Get It!,'' released in 1978, contained ''You and I,'' his first song to reach No. 1 on the R&B charts.
        He wrote and produced most of his own material, and during the peak of his fame, he was in high demand as a producer, working with Teena Marie, the Mary Jane Girls and the comedian Eddie Murphy, who sometimes joined him onstage in character as a big-haired, sleazy Rick James clone.
        Mr. James also helped revive the career of the Temptations, his uncle's group, by featuring them on ''Super Freak'' and working as a producer and a writer on their 1982 album, ''Reunion.''
        He is survived by three children, Ty, Rick Jr. and Tazman, and by two grandchildren.
        When he was released from prison, Mr. James made an album, ''Urban Rapsody,'' inspired by his incarceration, and said he had gotten clean and was experiencing the sober life for the first time.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1998, he expressed regret over his dissolute ways but also a sense of amazement at the unfettered indulgence that had been a part of his life for so long.
        ''I had always been a free spirit,'' he said, ''and always gotten what I wanted.''
      