
        Philip S. Holzman, a psychologist and researcher at Harvard University whose studies of schizophrenia led to a more detailed understanding of mental disease, died on June 1 at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 82.
        The cause was a stroke after surgery, said a son, Carl Holzman, of Chicago.
        In a career that meshed clinical psychology with laboratory neuroscience, Dr. Holzman founded the McLean Hospital Psychology Research Laboratory in Belmont, Mass., in 1977. He directed the laboratory, which is affiliated with Harvard, until his death.
        Building on earlier observations of eye movements in schizophrenic patients, Dr. Holzman noted that some patients and their healthy relatives exhibited troubles in following moving objects within their vision. He developed random-dot tests and other methods to measure the dysfunction, called eye tracking, as an entry to examine the broader genetic causes underlying mental disease.
        Dr. Steven W. Matthysse, emeritus professor of psychology at Harvard Medical School, said Dr. Holzman's findings were ''a research tool more than a diagnostic tool, but eye tracking as a phenomenon, before Phil Holzman, had been totally ignored.''
        ''He was a gifted interpreter of data and saw patterns that other people often failed to see,'' Dr. Matthysse said.
        In other work, Dr. Holzman studied the misuse of language that is characteristic of schizophrenics and the accompanying disorder in their thoughts. Collaborating with other scientists, Dr. Holzman further found that schizophrenic patients exhibited a lack of short-term memory, especially in terms of recalling spatial relationships between objects.
        In an interview with the American Psychological Association last year, Dr. Holzman spoke of his ''conviction that schizophrenia is broader than the psychotic phenomena and includes many behaviors that occur in unaffected relatives of the patients.'' He added that he ''would continue our search for the genetic roots'' of the disease.
        Philip Seidman Holzman was born on May 2, 1922, in Manhattan. He graduated from the City College of New York before receiving his doctorate from the University of Kansas in 1952.
        Dr. Holzman was an instructor at the Menninger Foundation School of Clinical Psychology before joining the Topeka Psychoanalytic Institute, where he was a supervisory psychoanalyst from 1963 to 1968. He was then appointed a professor in the University of Chicago's department of psychiatry, a position he held until moving to Harvard in 1977.
        At Harvard, Dr. Holzman was a professor of psychology for 15 years, before taking emeritus status in 1992. He remained active in his research laboratory until recently.
        In 1982, Dr. Holzman was named a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He sat on the editorial board of the Harvard Review of Psychiatry and was a former president of the Society for Research in Psychopathology. He was made a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1979.
        Among many honors, Dr. Holzman received the American Psychological Foundation's Alexander Gralnick research award in 2001. In 1997, the International Congress on Schizophrenia Research recognized him with its Warren award for lifetime achievement in research.
        In addition to his son Carl, Dr. Holzman is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ann. The couple resided in Cambridge, Mass.
        He is also survived by another son, Paul, of San Francisco; a daughter, Natalie Bernardoni, of Chicago; a sister, Sylvia Steinbrock, of New York City; and three grandchildren.
      