
        James Stillman Rockefeller, who helped capture an Olympic rowing title for the United States before a banking career with a company that eventually become Citigroup, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 102.
        Mr. Rockefeller joined the National City Bank in New York in 1930, worked there through its years as First National City Bank, and retired as chairman in 1967.
        Under Walter B. Wriston, a successor and a protégé of Mr. Rockefeller, Citicorp emerged as a world financial power.
        Mr. Rockefeller was a grandnephew of John D. Rockefeller, who founded Standard Oil with Mr. Rockefeller's grandfather. He is a cousin of David, John D. 3rd, Laurance, Nelson and Winthrop Rockefeller.
        James Stillman Rockefeller was born on June 8, 1902, in New York City, a son of William G. Rockefeller and Elsie Stillman Rockefeller.
        He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Yale in 1924. He was captain of the Yale crew that rowed to a gold medal in the eight-oared shell with coxswain event at the Olympic Games in Paris in 1924.
        After that, he spent six years with the Wall Street banking firm Brown Brothers. At National City Bank, he was named president in 1952 and elected chairman in 1959, four years after it became the First National City Bank of New York.
        In World War II, he served as a lieutenant colonel on the staff of the Airborne Command.
        Over the years, he sat on the boards of Pan American World Airways, National Cash Register, Monsanto, American Smelting and Refining, Northern Pacific and Kimberly-Clark, as well as those of some family concerns, like Cranston Print Works and the Indian Spring Land Company, of which he was a director at his death.
        He was a former trustee of the American Museum of Natural History and a member of the board of overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mr. Rockefeller's wife, Nancy Carnegie Rockefeller, died in 1994 after 68 years of marriage. He is survived by two sons, James S. Jr. of Camden, Me., and Andrew, of Greenwich; two daughters, Nancy McFadden Copp of Memphis and Georgia R. Rose of Manhattan; 14 grandchildren; 37 great-grandchildren; and one great-great-granddaughter.
      