
        Maxwell Dane, the last living founder of Doyle Dane Bernbach, a New York agency that helped change the face of advertising, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the agency, now known as DDB Worldwide, said yesterday. Mr. Dane, known as Mac, was 98.
        Mr. Dane opened Doyle Dane Bernbach at 350 Madison Avenue on June 1, 1949, along with James E. Doyle, known as Ned, and William Bernbach. Mr. Dane was vice president and general manager, Mr. Doyle was executive vice president and Mr. Bernbach was president.
        Doyle Dane Bernbach became famous for its innovations, both in the way it created advertising and in the content of its campaigns. It was considered the first agency to assign copywriters and art directors to work together. And the low-key, sophisticated tone of its ads, often infused with wit and humor -- for marketers including Alka-Seltzer, Avis, El Al, Levy's rye bread, Mobil, Ohrbach's department store and Volkswagen -- is widely credited with helping to spark Madison Avenue's so-called creative revolution in the 1960's. The tenor and style of its ads rebelled against the hyperbolic, overheated approach to selling products in previous decades.
        ''Certainly, none of us ever felt it was going to be this successful,'' Mr. Dane recalled in an interview with the agency publication DDB News to mark the 20th anniversary of Doyle Dane Bernbach in 1969. ''After all, when you start, you never know what's going to happen.''
        In 1986, Doyle Dane Bernbach merged with Needham Harper Worldwide, an agency in Chicago, and together with BBDO Worldwide formed the Omnicom Group as an agency holding company. Omnicom is now the world's largest agency company calculated by revenue.
        Mr. Dane was among the original 20 politicians, journalists and business executives on the ''enemies list'' compiled in 1971 for President Richard M. Nixon by Charles W. Colson. His listing was related to the agency's creation of a 1964 ad that became famous as the ''daisy commercial,'' promoting the election of President Lyndon B. Johnson by suggesting that his Republican opponent, Senator Barry M. Goldwater, was not to be trusted with nuclear weapons.
        Mr. Dane left his own agency, Maxwell Dane Inc., to start Doyle Dane Bernbach. He knew Mr. Doyle (who died in 1989 at age 86) from their work together at Look magazine, and he knew Mr. Bernbach (who died in 1982 at age 71) through Mr. Doyle; at the time, both men were vice presidents at Grey Advertising. Through the years, Mr. Dane oversaw agency functions like administration, finance and public relations. When he retired in 1971, he was chairman of the executive committee, secretary and treasurer.
        Mr. Dane, born in Cincinnati on June 7, 1906, came to New York as a teenager and worked at age 16 or 17 for a newspaper advertising sales representative company, he recalled in a 1991 interview, initially in the mailroom.
        He became secretary to the advertising manager of Stern Brothers department store, then worked at The New York Evening Post as retail promotion manager; at Dorland International, an ad agency, as an account executive and copywriter; at Look, where he was advertising and promotion manager; and at the New York radio station WMCA, as advertising promotion manager. He opened the agency bearing his name in 1944 and closed it when Doyle Dane Bernbach opened.
        Mr. Dane was active as a philanthropist and with organizations like the Anti-Defamation League, Citizens Union and the New York Civil Liberties Union. In 1996, UJA-Federation created the Maxwell Dane Humanitarian Award.
        Mr. Dane married Belle Sloan in 1933; she died in 1985. They had a son, Henry, of Concord, Mass., who survives, along with Esther Levine Dane, whom Mr. Dane married in 1986; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Dane ''still had an office on the 20th floor'' of the DDB building, now at 437 Madison Avenue, said Pat Sloan, a spokeswoman for the agency, and ''still had been coming in.'' There was recently a party, complete with a cake, to celebrate his 98th birthday, she said.
      