
        Dr. Howard A. Eder, a New York doctor and scientist whose studies of cholesterol led to breakthroughs in the understanding of heart disease, died on Jan. 15 in Raleigh, N.C. He was 86.
        The cause was sudden cardiac arrest after heart surgery, said Dr. Rebecca Eder, a daughter, of Peoria, Ill.
        As a young researcher at Cornell in the 1950's, Dr. Eder noted that men who had suffered heart attacks often carried comparatively low levels of high density lipoprotein, also called H.D.L., and known as the good cholesterol.
        Later studies showed that the level of H.D.L. in premenopausal women tended to be far higher and helped explain a lower incidence of coronary disease in women. Dr. Eder combined the two observations to confirm his theory that H.D.L. has a protective effect on the arteries of the heart.
        In devising treatments, it was later found that the production of the good cholesterol was usually stimulated by exercise.
        ''Howard Eder was among the very first to recognize the importance of H.D.L. as an indicator of coronary arterial sclerosis, and an international leader in the field,'' said Dr. Irving M. London, professor of medicine and biology at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Howard Abram Eder was born in Milwaukee and studied chemistry at the University of Wisconsin before receiving his medical degree from Harvard in 1942. After clinical training at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, he joined the federal Public Health Service. In 1945, he received a master's degree in nutrition, from the Harvard School of Public Health.
        After his pioneering work at Cornell, Dr. Eder continued research as an investigator at the National Heart Institute before joining the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University in 1957. He retired in 1988 but remained affiliated as professor emeritus.
        Dr. Howard Hiatt, former dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said Dr. Eder's scientific contributions had sometimes been made against prevailing wisdom.
        Dr. Eder received a distinguished achievement award from the American Heart Association.
        He was a member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and chairman of the board of scientific counselors of the National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute.
        He was also elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
        A resident of the Riverdale area of the Bronx since the 1960's, Dr. Eder had gone for surgery to Raleigh, where another daughter, Dr. Susan Eder, practices medicine.
        In addition to his daughters, he is survived by a son, Michael, of Acton, Mass.; and five grandchildren. His wife of more than 40 years, Barbara Straus Eder, died in 1998.
      