
        Alan Norman Cohen, a sports and entertainment executive who once headed the company that owned Madison Square Garden, died Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 73.
        The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease, his family said.
        At his death, he was chairman of ANC Sports Enterprises, which he founded in 1997. The company, with headquarters in Purchase, N.Y., builds illuminated advertising signs in sports arenas around North America, including Yankee Stadium.
        A lawyer by training, Mr. Cohen was chief executive in the mid-1970's of the Madison Square Garden Corporation, which owned the Knicks and the Rangers. In 1978, he was one of the investors who bought the Nets' N.B.A. franchise and moved it to the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J.
        He sold his interest in 1983 to join the partnership that bought the Boston Celtics.
        Mr. Cohen was born in Clifton, N.J. He graduated from Columbia in 1952 and from Columbia Law School two years later. In 1957, he joined the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkin, Wharton & Garrison. He became a partner in 1964.
        In 1970, he moved to what was then Warner Communications as an executive vice president, dealing with its music record labels. His involvement with sports began when he joined Steve Ross, Warner's chief executive, as a partner to buy the Cosmos, New York City's old professional soccer franchise.
        In recent years, Mr. Cohen was active in several sports-related enterprises, including ANC Sports. He was also co-chairman of Sportsco International, which owns the Skydome in Toronto.
        He was a director of the American Friends of Tel Aviv University and a recent chairman of the Columbia Law School annual fund. He also contributed to the International Center for Photography, the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater and Haifa University.
        His first wife, Joan Fields Cohen, died in 1989 after 36 years of marriage. Mr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Carol Vasil Cohen; their daughter, Rebecca; a daughter and a son from his first marriage, Laurie C. Fenster of Paterson, N.J., and Gordon G. of Manhattan; and a sister, Beryl Zankel of Boca Raton.
      