
        Bill Martin Jr., who could not read more than a sentence at a time until he was in college but later earned a doctorate in early childhood education and led generations of young children to reading with simple stories like ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?'' and ''Chicka, Chicka, Boom, Boom,'' died at his home in Commerce, Tex., on Aug. 11. He was 88.
        His death was announced by his neighbor and frequent collaborator, Michael Sampson.
        One of five brothers, Dr. Martin was born and raised in Hiawatha, Kan., where his father was a paperhanger. Because he was bright, listened closely and repeated what teachers said, no one noticed that he could not read much more than isolated words. He borrowed $50 -- all that was needed to register at Emporia State University -- and there, studying books of poetry he knew by heart, he taught himself to read.
        After graduation, he taught high school drama and journalism in Kansas and served in the Army Air Force during World War II. His first book, ''The Little Squeegy Bug,'' was written for his brother Bernard, an artist, to illustrate while recuperating from war wounds. Eleanor Roosevelt praised it in her newspaper column, ''My Day,'' and it eventually sold a million copies. The brothers established Tell-Well Press in Kansas City, Mo., and collaborated on 11 books from 1945 to 1955.
        In the late 50's, Dr. Martin earned a master's degree and doctorate in early childhood education from Northwestern University and became principal of an elementary school in Evanston, Ill., where he developed innovative reading programs.
        In 1962 he moved to New York City as editor in chief of the school division of Holt, Rinehart & Winston. Over the next 10 years he developed 30 ''Instant Reader'' books and a beginning reading series, ''Sounds of Language.'' In them he followed the same principles he had used to learn to read.
        In an interview with the Northwestern University alumni magazine this summer he said: ''I create simple poetry that children know in their hearts. They recognize these sentences in my books as they see how the sounds transfer into print.'' He added, ''Once the child assimilates the structure or pattern of the poem, they are able to read the entire story by mentally plugging in the new animals and their movements that appear on each succeeding page.''
        In the 1950's, he was also the host of ''The Storyteller,'' an early children's television program, and he developed audio tapes for classroom use in the 1960's and 70's.
        Dr. Martin returned to full-time writing in 1972 and moved to Texas in 1994. He wrote more than 300 books, including 16 in collaboration with Mr. Sampson and seven more with him that are still to be published.
        He married Betty Jean Bachmann in 1942; they were divorced in 1978. He is survived by a daughter, Danielle, who lives in California, and two brothers, Glenn and Robert, who live in Kansas. His son, Gary, died in 1963.
        Earlier this year he summed up both his philosophy and personal experience. ''Students will only learn to read,'' he said, ''when they have language inside of themselves.''
      