
        Dr. David W. Golde, an expert in blood disorders who was chief physician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City, died on Aug. 9 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 63.
        He committed suicide, said his son Michael D., of Silver Spring, Md.
        Dr. Golde (pronounced GOLD-ee) was a hematologist and oncologist with a broad interest in blood-borne disease. In the 1980's, while on the faculty of U.C.L.A.'s medical school, he helped to isolate and purify a protein called GM-CSF, which increases the body's production of white blood cells.
        The protein has been used to give a boost to patients' immune systems during chemotherapy, bone-marrow transplants and other procedures.
        While at U.C.L.A., Dr. Golde helped discover the blood-borne leukemia virus HTLV-II, which was spreading among intravenous drug users. Dr. Stephen D. Nimer, a colleague at U.C.L.A. and later at Sloan-Kettering, said that Dr. Golde and other scientists were successful in cloning the virus and developing a blood test to detect it, and that the research prompted Dr. Golde's laboratory to become interested in the AIDS virus. From 1986 to 1990, Dr. Golde directed U.C.L.A.'s AIDS Center.
        Dr. Golde's work received national attention when a leukemia patient sued U.C.L.A. to claim ownership of his discarded body tissue, which had been used in research by university scientists in the 1980's. Dr. Golde and others used the patient's blood cells in the course of developing a cell line to treat other cancer patients.
        In 1990, the California Supreme Court reviewed the case and ruled that the research was legal, but that doctors who did it must inform their patients. The state's decision was upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1991, and interpreted as beneficial for biotechnology companies.
        In a symposium at the University of California, San Francisco, in 1992, Dr. Golde reflected on the case: ''If tissue is removed for a therapeutic purpose, then does the patient retain a property interest? Does he still own that tissue? And this in fact was an important question.''
        David William Golde was born in Manhattan on Oct. 23, 1940. He earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Fairleigh Dickinson University and received his medical degree from McGill University in 1966.
        He was an instructor in medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, before moving to U.C.L.A.'s medical school in 1973. In 1979 he was named a professor of medicine, a position he held until 1991, when he joined Memorial Sloan-Kettering. He served as physician-in-chief there from 1996 to 2002, and continued to practice in the leukemia service there until his death.
        In New York, he was also a professor of medicine at Cornell University Medical College and a professor of pharmacology at Cornell's graduate school of medical sciences.
        Dr. Golde's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived, in addition to his son Michael, by his second wife, Geri, and their daughter, Lea Marie, both of Manhattan; another son, David E., of Los Angeles; a sister, Barbara Benedict of Hudson, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      