
        Wolfgang Mommsen, a scion of a dynasty of German historians who is best known in the United States for his scholarship on the historian Max Weber and the origins of imperialism, especially in Germany, died on Wednesday while vacationing on the island of Usedom, in the Baltic Sea. He was 73 and a resident of Düsseldorf, on the Rhine.
        Local authorities, quoted in the German news media, said emergency workers pulled his body from the water after what appeared to be a swimming accident. An autopsy was ordered to establish the cause of death.
        Dr. Mommsen was a professor emeritus of modern history at Heinrich-Heine University in Düsseldorf, where he had taught since 1968. He was considered a more liberal double of his twin brother, Hans Mommsen, an equally distinguished historian of modern European history at Ruhr University in Bochum.
        Both belonged to the elite of German writers of history in the last half-century. They were great-grandsons of Theodor Mommsen (1817-1903), who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1902, with his work on ancient Roman history especially cited. Their father, Wilhelm, taught history at Marburg but was dismissed in 1945 for having blended the subject with Nazi ideology.
        Born in Marburg in 1930, Wolfgang Justin Mommsen left the city as soon as possible to gain some distance from his father. His own politics leaned toward the liberal, and he was skeptical of state authority.
        After starting his studies at Marburg, he received his doctorate at the University of Cologne in 1958. He did postgraduate work at the University of Leeds in England, and returned to Cologne as a researcher and teacher until his appointment in Düsseldorf. From 1977 to 1985 he was director of the German Historical Institute in London.
        Most of his books were on the history of imperialism and the place of Max Weber in Western thought. Those in print in this country, all from the University of Chicago Press, are ''Max Weber and German Politics, 1890-1920,'' ''Political and Social Theory of Max Weber'' and ''Theories of Imperialism.''
        In academic arguments about German history, especially in the 1980's, he sided against what he considered ''revisionist'' historians who tended to play down the uniqueness and enormity of the Holocaust.
        At the same time, as a foremost expert on German imperialism, he rejected the argument that Germany was solely responsible for World War I.
        As president of the Association of German Historians in the early 1990's, he led the efforts to reconcile the teaching of history in a reunited Germany. Most recently, as an emeritus professor at Heinrich-Heine University, he worked from a position at the University of Erfurt in the former East Germany.
        In addition to his brother, Hans, Dr. Mommsen's survivors include his wife of 49 years, Sabine von Schalburg Mommsen; two sons, Hans and Kai; and two daughters, Kerstin and Johanne.
      