
        George Yardley, a Hall of Fame forward who was the first National Basketball Association player to score 2,000 points in a season, died Thursday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his daughter Anne Caldwell said.
        Playing in the N.B.A. from 1953 to 1960, with the Fort Wayne and Detroit Pistons and the Syracuse Nationals, the 6-foot-5 Yardley was an outstanding leaper and one of pro basketball's early jump-shot artists.
        ''He had probably the quickest release of anybody in the N.B.A.,'' Bill Sharman, the former star guard of the Boston Celtics, once told The Los Angeles Times. ''He was a deadly shooter and one of the only ones dunking the ball back then.''
        Yardley, in the book ''From Set Shot to Slam Dunk,'' told Charles Salzberg that he was probably the best jumper in the league. ''There might have been others who were good jumpers,'' Yardley recalled, ''but I could move my body well to either side while in the air and still control my shot.''
        A native of Los Angeles, Yardley starred at Stanford, then was selected in the 1950 draft by Fort Wayne. But after receiving his degree in engineering, he played Amateur Athletic Union basketball instead of immediately turning pro, hoping to be selected for the 1952 Olympic team. He led the Stewart Chevrolet team of San Francisco to the national A.A.U. title in 1951, but a broken hand he later sustained while playing for the Los Alamitos Naval Air Station in California kept him from the Helsinki Olympics.
        Yardley joined Fort Wayne for the 1953-54 N.B.A. season, then emerged as a star the next year and played in the N.B.A. All-Star Game every season until his retirement in 1960.
        After playing on Fort Wayne Pistons teams that reached the N.B.A. finals in 1955 and '56, Yardley scored a league-record 2,001 points, averaging 27.8 points a game, in 1957-58, the season the Pistons moved to Detroit. That broke the record of 1,932 points set by Minneapolis Lakers center George Mikan in 1950-51.
        Yardley broke his hand midway through the 1958-59 season and was soon traded to Syracuse for Ed Conlin, the former star forward from Fordham. Yardley retired from the N.B.A. after a season and a half with the Nationals (the forerunners of the Philadelphia 76ers), having averaged 19.2 points a game for his career.
        He returned to pro basketball in 1961 with the Los Angeles Jets of the new American Basketball League, with Sharman as the playing coach, but the team went out of business in January 1962.
        Yardley was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1996.
        Soon after retiring from the N.B.A., he established the George Yardley Company, a California-based manufacturers representative that sells engineering products. He also won several national age-group tennis doubles titles.
        In addition to his daughter Anne Caldwell, of Newport Beach, Yardley is survived by his daughter Marilyn Nagle, of Costa Mesa, Calif.; his sons Rob, of Costa Mesa, and Rich, of Irvine, Calif; a brother, Robert, of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; and 14 grandchildren. His wife, Diana, died in 1999.
      