
        Sune Karl Bergstrom, a biochemist who shared the 1982 Nobel Prize in Medicine for unraveling the secrets of prostaglandins, a family of hormones with a wide array of biological functions, died on Sunday in his native Sweden. He was 88.
        The cause was a long illness, said news reports from Stockholm, citing family sources.
        Dr. Bergstrom, long associated with the Swedish Karolinska Institute of medicine, pioneered the investigation of prostaglandins, mistakenly so named in the 1930's when it was thought they came from the prostate gland. He was honored for deciphering their true nature, together with a fellow Swede and former student of his, Bengt Ingemar Samuelsson, also of the Karolinska Institute, and John Robert Vane, a Briton with the Wellcome Research Foundation, who had worked independently.
        Dr. Bergstrom was credited with figuring out the basic chemistry of the substances, and Dr. Samuelsson helped clarify the chemical processes by which the body manufactures and uses them. Dr. Vane discovered that aspirin almost completely blocks prostaglandin production, thereby reducing fever, pain and inflammation.
        Prostaglandins turned out to be potent hormonal substances that, synthesized from fatty acids, are not stored but are produced as needed by cell membranes in virtually every body tissue. Different prostaglandins raise or lower blood pressure and regulate muscle activity and glandular secretion.
        One such substance, for instance, stimulates contraction of the uterus and has been used to induce labor. Others control substances involved in transmitting nerve impulses, help defend the body against infection and regulate the metabolism rate in various tissues.
        The Nobel committee cited Dr. Bergstrom for achieving ''a crucial breakthrough in the understanding of the chemical structure of prostaglandins,'' adding, ''His discoveries have placed the metabolism of unsaturated fatty acids at the center of future research on blood.''
        Sune Bergstrom was born in Stockholm and received doctorates in biochemistry and medicine in 1944 at the Karolinska Institute. There he began his research and taught until, after brief stints as a research fellow at Columbia University and Basel University, he became a professor of chemistry at the University of Lund, in southern Sweden.
        At Lund he met Dr. Samuelsson, who was one of his graduate students. He returned to the Karolinska Institute in 1958 and was named dean of the medical faculty five years later. From 1969 until 1977 he served as rector, or chief administrator, of the institute, which also is the home of the Nobel Committee for Medicine.
        Dr. Bergstrom was chairman of the Nobel Committee from 1975 to 1987. He was chairman of the medical research advisory committee of the World Health Organization from 1977 to 1982. Until 1990, when he returned to the Karolinska Institute as a professor in the biochemistry department, he headed the W.H.O.'s science and technology advisory panel on human reproduction.
        He was a former president of the Swedish Royal Academy of Science and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Bergstrom and Maj Gernandt married in 1943; they had one son.
      