
        J. Irwin Miller, the industrialist whose patronage turned Columbus, Ind., into a showcase for modern architecture, died on Monday at his home in Columbus. He was 95.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        For 26 years, Mr. Miller was chairman of the Cummins Engine Company, based in Columbus, 40 miles south of Indianapolis. He and the company were instrumental in changing a decaying Columbus into a showcase for buildings designed by architects like Eero Saarinen and I.M. Pei.
        ''Columbus, Ind., and J. Irwin Miller are almost holy words in architectural circles,'' The New York Times's architecture critic Paul Goldberger, now with The New Yorker, wrote in 1976. ''There is no other place in which a single philanthropist has placed so much faith in architecture as a means to civic improvement.''
        Early in Mr. Miller's chairmanship of Cummins, a leading maker of diesel engines, the company established a foundation that fostered the design of new school buildings in Columbus. Its commitment to excellence in design encouraged other Columbus residents to sponsor equally distinguished construction.
        As the years passed, Columbus came to have a newspaper building designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill; a library designed by Mr. Pei; churches designed by Mr. Saarinen and his father, Eliel; a Kevin Roche post office and a Cesar Pelli shopping area.
        By 1976, Columbus, which then had a population of 30,000, had come to be ''considered one of the major showplaces of modern architecture in the world,'' Mr. Goldberger wrote.
        Mr. Miller became interested in modern design as an undergraduate at Yale, where he was sent by his wealthy family, which was long established in Columbus and had founded Cummins in 1919.
        He also had a longstanding interest in religion and was active in the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). He was the first layman to serve as president of the National Council of Churches. As president from 1960 to 1963, he championed church activism in civil rights and many other fields.
        He also directed the Rockefeller for President Committee, which helped persuade Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York to seek the Republican presidential nomination in 1968; the nomination went to Richard M. Nixon.
        Four years later, Mr. Miller; his wife, Xenia; and his sister, Clementine Tangeman, supported Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York City in an unsuccessful bid for the 1972 Democratic presidential nomination, contributing more than $200,000 to the campaign.
        Joseph Irwin Miller belonged to a busy family that gained wealth in banking, real estate and cornstarch before going into diesel engines. Born on May 26, 1909, he was a 1931 Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Yale, where he majored in Greek and Latin. He received a master's degree at Oxford University in 1933.
        Mr. Miller began his career with Cummins in 1934. He left the company temporarily in World War II to serve as a Navy lieutenant. After that, he was the executive vice president of Cummins from 1944 to 1947 and president from 1947 to 1951, when he became chairman.
        In 1977, the year he left the Cummins chairmanship, he became chairman of the executive and finance committees of its board. In the middle of that year, he and his family controlled about one-third of the shares of the company, which had come to be the world's largest independent producer of diesel truck engines. It had $1 billion in revenue in 1976.
        Early in his chairmanship of Cummins, he refused to accept the deterioration of Columbus as final. He set about making the town into what he thought would be a more appropriate setting for the company, a place that would be more attractive to the able young executives, blacks as well as whites, his company recruited.
        In 1954, when Columbus's population was only 19,000, the Cummins Engine Foundation was set up to subsidize architectural design.
        Mr. Miller and his family were also active in personal philanthropy in their town. They commissioned a church designed by Eliel Saarinen, a noted Finnish architect and the father of Eero Saarinen.
        Later, in 1971, Mr. Miller presented Columbus with a sizable sculpture by the British artist Henry Moore. The green sand-cast bronze work, ''Large Arch,'' was placed in a square flanked by the Pei library and the Eliel Saarinen church.
        Over the years, Mr. Miller was a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art and the Ford Foundation and a member of the Yale Corporation, the university's board. In 1967, he served as chairman of an American Medical Association conference on health care for the poor.
        At his death, he was honorary chairman of both Cummins Inc., still a world leader in the manufacture of large diesel engines, with $6 billion in annual sales, and the Irwin Financial Corporation, formerly Irwin Union Bank.
        In addition to Xenia Simons Miller, his wife of 61 years, Mr. Miller is survived by three daughters, Margaret I. Miller, of Washington; Catherine G. Miller, of Hamden, Conn.; and Elizabeth G. Miller, of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; two sons, Hugh Th., of Lake Angelus, Mich.; and William I., of Columbus, Ind.; and 10 grandchildren. Clementine Tangeman, his sister, died in 1996.
      