
        Pendleton Herring, a political scientist, writer and foundation executive who did pioneering work in the study of American politics, died on Tuesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 100. The cause was pneumonia, his son James said.
        As a scholar, Dr. Herring worked to understand the basic mechanics of government and to apply rigor to the emerging study of political science.
        ''Group Representation before Congress'' (Johns Hopkins, 1929) was the first scholarly study of American interest groups. In ''Public Administration and the Public Interest'' (McGraw-Hill, 1936), he examined the effects of lobbying.
        In his most influential work, ''The Politics of Democracy: American Parties in Action'' (Norton, 1940), he analyzed the history of American politics and argued that its improvised, decentralized political parties work better in the American system than the more programmatic, disciplined parties that many reformers have called for.
        The historian Allan Nevins, writing in The Times Book Review, praised the book's exposition as ''really simple, concrete, shrewd and founded both upon wide reading and catholic observation.''
        As president of the Social Science Research Council from 1948 until 1968, Dr. Herring sought to systematize the social sciences through quantification and the application of theories.
        As a result, the council was influential in changing political science from a theoretical discipline into a behavioral science that drew on sociology, psychology and other disciplines.
        Edward Pendleton Herring was born on October 27, 1903, in Baltimore, Md., one of five children of Dr. Arthur Pendleton Herring and Agnes Kinney Herring. He preferred to be called by his middle name, his son said.
        He attended Johns Hopkins University, majoring in English literature as an undergraduate, and received an A.B. in 1925 and a Ph.D. in political science in 1928. In 1933 he married Katherine Channing. They had two sons, H. James, of Princeton, N.J., and Thomas S., of Wareham, Mass. His first wife died in 1969 and he married Virginia Staman Wood in 1971. She survives him, along with his sons, five grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren, and a brother, Arthur S. Herring of Cincinnati.
        After completing his doctorate, Dr. Herring joined the faculty at Harvard University as a lecturer in government. He stayed there until 1946, rising to the rank of associate professor.
        He became the first secretary of the Graduate School in Public Administration in 1937 and developed its teaching program.
        Dr. Herring held several positions in Washington during and after World War II, advising President Roosevelt and President Truman on matters including the unification of the military services within the Department of Defense.
        In 1946 he became director of the United Nations Atomic Energy group.
        In addition to serving as president of the Social Science Research Council, Dr. Herring was a director and president of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, which supported the publication of the papers of the former president, and president of the American Political Science Association.
      