
        Robert David Lion Gardiner, the last heir to bear the name of the family that has owned Gardiner's Island, off the coast of Long Island, for nearly four centuries, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 93.
        His death was announced by Jeanne Toomey, a friend and former press representative.
        Mr. Gardiner called himself ''the 16th Lord of the Manor'' and saw himself as a custodian of his family's history on what is said to be the largest privately owned island in the world. Although the Gardiners' wealth and social position was overshadowed by that of the tycoons and Hollywood celebrities who colonized Long Island over the last century, he delighted in reminding them of who had arrived first.
        ''The Fords, the du Ponts, the Rockefellers, they are nouveaux riches,'' Mr. Gardiner told an interviewer in the mid-1990's.
        Mr. Gardiner lived in East Hampton, in an opulent family house with its own long history, but his heart was rooted in Gardiner's Island, in the bay off Long Island's south fork. The island's 3,350 acres includes 27 miles of coastline, forests and streams, and buildings dating from the 17th century.
        It has been in the family ever since his ancestor, the English settler Lion Gardiner, bought it from the Montaukett Indians in 1639 for ''one large dog, one gun, some powder and shot, some rum and several blankets, worth in all about Five Pounds sterling.''
        He also obtained a charter from King Charles I of England. Captain Kidd once buried treasure there, and the family withstood several attacks by pirates. Someone accused of being a witch once lived on the island, as did Julia Gardiner, who became the wife of President John Tyler and was known in her youth as ''the rose of Long Island.''
        Although the island is strictly off limits to the public, Mr. Gardiner took occasional groups of visitors there in his boat, the Laughing Lady, often surprising them by talking about Colonial-era events as though they had happened the day before.
        For the last three decades Mr. Gardiner feuded with his niece, Alexandra Gardiner Creel Goelet, who owned the island jointly with him. He often accused Mrs. Goelet and her husband, Robert G. Goelet, of plotting to sell or develop the island after his death, a charge they vehemently denied. Mr. Gardiner, who married in 1961 but had no children, tried unsuccessfully during the 1980's to adopt a distant relative as his heir, to whom he could bequeath his share of the island.
        Robert David Lion Gardiner was born in New York on Feb. 25, 1911, and attended St. George's School in Newport, R.I. He graduated from Columbia University in 1934 and attended New York University Law School. In World War II he served as a Navy lieutenant and saw action in the South Pacific.
        After the war he worked on Wall Street at the Empire Trust Company. His father had died when he was young, and he lived in Manhattan with his mother until he was in his late 40's. In 1961 he married Eunice Bailey Oakes, a British former model many years his junior, at St. Thomas Church on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Eighteen ushers in top hats and tails took part in the ceremony. Mrs. Gardiner survives him.
        Mr. Gardiner once estimated his personal wealth at $135 million; his assets included a 42-acre shopping center in Islip. He served for many years on the Suffolk County Planning Board, and ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic candidate for the State Senate in 1960.
        Mr. Gardiner and his sister Alexandra Gardiner Creel inherited the island from their aunt, Sarah Diodati Gardiner, on her death in 1953. It had nearly passed out of family hands two decades earlier, after a spendthrift cousin was unable to maintain it. The elder Miss Gardiner bought it in 1937 for $400,000, just before it was to be put up for sale at public auction.
        Mr. Gardiner's aunt left a trust fund to pay for the island's upkeep, but by the late 1970's it had run out of money. Mr. Gardiner had already quarreled with his sister and her daughter over the island, and when his niece's husband, Robert Goelet, began paying the rising costs, Mr. Gardiner refused to pay half. He said at the time that he was trying to force the island into receivership by New York State, which he hoped would take care of it as a historic site. But his relatives went to court, and in 1980 Judge Marie Lambert of State Surrogate Court barred Mr. Gardiner from visiting the island.
        Mr. Gardiner appealed the decision, and in 1992 a state appeals court ruled that as an heir he could not be denied the use of the island. He began visiting it regularly again, always avoiding the Goelets, with whom he continued to feud, and still refusing to help pay the estimated $1.8 million yearly costs for the island's upkeep.
        His sister died in 1990. Mr. Gardiner's feud with his niece was far from the family's only quarrel over the island, which Mrs. Goelet's father had called ''the sandbar of sorrow.'' Over the years, there had been several legal confrontations over its ownership, according to Joseph Attinito, Mr. Gardiner's lawyer. Now Mrs. Goelet is expected to become the owner of the island. She has two children.
        Although Mr. Gardiner had hoped to be buried on the island in a tomb like his grandfather's, inspired by that of a Roman emperor, Mr. Attinito said he would be buried near his parents in an East Hampton cemetery.
      