
        Hank Borowy, a right-handed pitcher who helped the Yankees capture pennants in 1942 and 1943, then starred for the last Chicago Cubs team to reach the World Series, died Monday at his home in Brick, N.J. He was 88.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Mary Ellen Borowy said.
        Featuring a darting fastball delivered from a deceptively easy motion, and overcoming severe blisters on his pitching hand, Borowy was the first pitcher to win at least 10 games in the American League and the National League in a single season. He was 10-5 for the Yankees in 1945, then was sold to the Cubs in midseason and went 11-2 for them, propelling Chicago to the pennant.
        Borowy, a native of Bloomfield, N.J., who pitched for Fordham University, was 15-4 as a rookie on the Yankees' 1942 pennant winners. He was 14-9 on the team that defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1943 World Series, winning Game 3.
        Borowy was 17-12 with the Yankees in 1944 and was the American League's starting pitcher in the All-Star Game. He was named an All-Star again in 1945, though the game was called off because of wartime travel restrictions. The Yankees traded him to the Cubs on July 27 for a reported $97,500, an astonishing sum for that era.
        The Yankees did not seem to need the cash, so the deal was mystifying. Larry MacPhail, the Yankees' president, maintained that Borowy would falter late in the season and that the Yankees were looking toward a youth movement, though Borowy was only 29 at the time.
        The 1945 Cubs backed Borowy and his fellow starting pitchers -- Hank Wyse, Claude Passeau, Paul Derringer and Ray Prim -- with a lineup featuring Phil Cavarretta, Stan Hack, Andy Pafko, Peanuts Lowrey and Bill Nicholson. Borowy, who had a draft deferment stemming from off-season work in a war plant, was particularly effective against the Cardinals, who finished in second place, three games behind the Cubs.
        ''Hank had a good live fastball,'' Cavarretta recalled in ''Wrigleyville,'' by Peter Golenbock. ''That ball would jump. He could pitch high-ball hitters high and get them out because his high fastball would rise. It was like a breaking ball. He had a good curve, good command of his pitches, very intelligent, and he'd give you a hundred percent at all times.''
        Borowy faced the Detroit Tigers' Hal Newhouser, a future Hall of Famer, three times in the World Series. Borowy pitched a six-hit shutout in the opener, was bested by Newhouser in Game 5, then pitched four innings in relief the next day, gaining the victory. Borowy persuaded Manager Charlie Grimm to let him start Game 7 on one day's rest, but he yielded singles to the first three hitters, then was taken out. Detroit went on to a 9-3 victory and a World Series title.
        Borowy later pitched for the Phillies, the Pirates and the Tigers and had a 108-82 career record in 10 seasons.
        In addition to his daughter Mary Ellen, of Bloomfield, Borowy is survived by his daughter Claire Gelli, of Florence, Italy; a son, Henry, of California; a sister, Helen Muraski; his brothers, Edward and William; and four grandchildren. His wife, Katherine, died in 1983.
      