
        David T. McLaughlin, a business executive who became president of Dartmouth College in the 1980's, a time of academic and political turbulence on its campus, died on Wednesday while on vacation at a lodge in Dillingham, Alaska. He was 72 and lived in Newbury, N.H.
        The cause has not been determined, said Roland Adams, a spokesman for the college, but Mr. Adams added that Mr. McLaughlin had had heart problems. He had been fishing in Alaska with his two sons and friends.
        Mr. McLaughlin served on many corporate boards, including a term as chairman of CBS in the late 1990's, and his charitable work included serving as chairman of the American Red Cross during relief efforts after the attacks on New York and the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.
        As president of Dartmouth from 1981 to 1987, he more than doubled the school's endowment, increased faculty salaries by 43 percent and erected new buildings, including an art center, an athletic complex and dormitories.
        But he faced sustained opposition from the faculty, who, according to polls, questioned his intellectual leadership. His reinstatement of the Reserve Officers Training Corps on campus set off strong protests.
        In the fall of 1985, students built several shanties on the college green to protest apartheid in South Africa and defied college orders to dismantle them. Conservative students then smashed the structures with sledgehammers. Students on both sides traded insults on national television.
        ''A lot of people around here are not yet willing to face reality,'' Mr. Mclaughlin said of his critics at the time.
        Jeffrey Hart, a conservative columnist and former English professor at Dartmouth, said in 2000, ''He didn't understand the faculty, and they didn't want to understand him.''
        Mr. McLaughlin resigned in October 1986, saying he was unwilling to dedicate the next 10 years of his life to running a major capital campaign the college was starting.
        David Thomas McLaughlin was born on March 16, 1932, in Grand Rapids, Mich. When Mr. McLaughlin was a standout high school football player, Gerald R. Ford, then a congressman from Michigan, tried to recruit him to play for the University of Michigan, where Mr. Ford had also played, but Mr. McLaughlin chose Dartmouth.
        He was voted the graduate of the class of 1954 holding ''the greatest promise,'' and some of his records as a football receiver held up for more than two decades. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles, but passed up professional football to earn an M.B.A. at the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth.
        After serving for two years as a pilot in the Air Force, Mr. McLaughlin climbed rapidly in business, first at Champion Papers and then as chairman and chief executive of the Toro Company, maker of lawnmowers and snow blowers.
        Mr. McLaughlin's last years with the company saw losses and layoffs as two successive winters of light snowfall left Toro with an inventory of 350,000 snow blowers. Mr. McLaughlin, whose unpaid work for Dartmouth included serving as chairman of its board, then accepted its presidency in February 1981.
        He succeeded John G. Kemeny, a prominent mathematician, who had led Dartmouth through a decade of change that included jettisoning the Indian mascot symbol beloved by many alumni and admitting women as full-time students.
        Mr. McLaughlin's appointment was viewed as part of a trend to appoint businessmen as university administrators, partly to streamline finances. Part of his rationale for bringing back R.O.T.C., an action twice condemned by faculty votes, was to ''open up another avenue of funding,'' he said in an interview with The Christian Science Monitor in 1985.
        After leaving Dartmouth, he was chairman and then president and chief executive of the Aspen Institute, whose mission is to foster enlightened leadership and open-minded dialogue on contemporary issues through seminars and other programs. For 13 years he was also chairman of Orion Safety Products, a maker of highway safety flares, in Easton, Md.
        He was chairman of the Red Cross when many donors complained that their contributions were going to causes other than helping Sept. 11 victims. He corrected what he called ''a mistake'' by dedicating all the contributions to the Red Cross's Sept. 11 campaign to victims of the attacks.
        Last Friday, Mr. McLaughlin was named to a subcommittee of the board of Viacom Inc., on which he sits, formed to consider buying Midway Games Inc., a video game company.
        Mr. McLaughlin is survived by his wife, the former Judith Landauer; his daughters, Wendy McLaughlin of Minneapolis and Susan Jangro of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.; his sons William R., of Minneapolis, and C. Jay, of Easton, and 13 grandchildren.
      