
        David A. Woodward, a British-born geographer, editor and historian of mapmaking who helped create an encyclopedic series of books re-examining the place of mapmaking in world history, died last Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis., where he taught at the University of Wisconsin for two decades. He was 61.
        The cause was cancer of the bile duct, said his daughter, Jennifer Woodward.
        At his death, Dr. Woodward had been editing the multivolume History of Cartography Project, an effort begun at the university in 1981.
        Previous such histories had focused on technical developments in mapping rather than on its social and philosophical implications. But in the 1970's Dr. Woodward and a colleague, J.B. Harley, conceived the idea of a wide-ranging cultural history of mapmaking. They approached historians and other experts to contribute articles, and published the first of a projected total of six volumes in 1987. Dr. Harley died in 1991.
        Robert W. Karrow Jr., curator of maps at the Newberry Library in Chicago, said that where earlier histories had paid scant attention to the mapmaking of African and other third-world cultures, Dr. Woodward had broadened the field.
        ''This history is going to be the standard reference work in cartography for a very long time, '' Dr. Karrow said.
        The initial volume addressed mapmaking in Europe and the Mediterranean, in prehistoric, ancient and medieval periods. A review published in The New York Times in 1987 praised it for ''impeccable scholarship'' and ''new insights and some reassessment of traditional thinking.''
        The second volume examined Islamic, African, Asian and American maps, among other topics, and was printed in three sections from 1992 to 1998. Both of the first two volumes were published by the University of Chicago Press. A third is planned for 2005, covering the European Renaissance.
        The final three volumes of the series are intended to cover the European Enlightenment and the 19th and 20th centuries. The six volumes will have 4,500 pages in all, said the series' managing editor, Judith A. Leimer, a former student of Dr. Woodward.
        Before undertaking the history project, Dr. Woodward was an illustrator and an authority on Italian printed maps of the 16th century. He then expanded his expertise, defining his greater interest as ''the graphic representation of spatial knowledge.''
        David Alfred Woodward was born on Aug. 29, 1942, in Royal Leamington Spa, England. After graduating from the University of Wales Swansea, he received a doctorate in geography from the University of Wisconsin in 1970.
        He joined the Newberry Library in 1969 and was director of its Hermon Dunlap Smith Center for the History of Cartography from 1974 to 1980. He then went back to Wisconsin, began the cartography project and was named a professor of geography. He took emeritus status in 2002 and continued to be co-editor of the project.
        Dr. Woodward became an American citizen in 1976.
        Besides his daughter, Jennifer, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 38 years, Rosalind, and a son, Justin, both of Madison; and his mother, Kathleen, of Pinner, England.
      