
        Jerry Nachman, an old-style newshound who had an award-winning career in highly visible jobs in broadcast and newspaper journalism, most recently as editor in chief and vice president of the cable news network MSNBC, died late Monday or early yesterday at his home in Hoboken, N.J., MSNBC said yesterday. He was 57.
        Mr. Nachman, who said last January that he had a malignancy in his gall bladder, was found dead yesterday morning, a spokesman for MSNBC said.
        Mr. Nachman cultivated an exaggerated, cigar-chomping, street-smart style, bringing both acute intelligence and dogged persistence to his pursuit of the news. For almost a generation, he was a familiar figure to newspaper readers and viewers of television news in New York City, not least because he told few stories without a strong punchline. Over the years he was news director for WNBC-TV, vice president for news at WCBS-TV and editor in chief of The New York Post.
        Other jobs included writing dramatic scripts for television and producing ''Politically Incorrect With Bill Maher'' during the election campaign of 2000. He won two entertainment Emmys as executive producer.
        He also won major journalism prizes, including a Peabody Award and an Edward R. Murrow Award.
        Mr. Nachman combined the scrappiness of city streets with the vocabulary of a professor. As a television journalist, he compared himself in interviews to Lou Grant, the gruff newsman played by Ed Asner on 'The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and the drama ''Lou Grant.'' Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani complained about him by name at news conferences and in calls to top CBS executives.
        As a newspaper editor, he was compared to Walter Burns, the wisecracking editor of the films ''The Front Page'' and ''His Girl Friday.'' When The Post broke a story about the widespread availability of a high school achievement test before it was given, he wrote the headline ''Easy as Pi.''
        In 2002, when Mr. Nachman's new series ''Nachman'' began on MSNBC, he associated himself with the radio and newspaper legend Walter Winchell by starting with Winchell's introduction: ''My name's Nachman,'' he said, and ''ladies and gentlemen of North America and all the ships at sea, let's go to press.''
        Jerome A. Nachman was born on Feb. 24, 1946, in Red Hook, Brooklyn, and spent his early childhood in Flatbush. His parents were divorced, and he moved with his mother and stepfather to Pittsburgh.
        He attended Youngstown State University for seven years without taking a journalism course or graduating. After several newspaper jobs, most prominently at The Pittsburgh Press, he moved to broadcasting. He was at CBS from 1971 to 1981, working in both radio and television, then was at NBC through 1987.
        Next he became a columnist for The New York Post. After writing to the editor asking if the paper needed a columnist, he spent six weeks as a guest columnist, then was hired permanently, writing sassy, city-wise essays. In 1989, he became The Post's editor.
        He resigned in an amicable parting of the ways in 1992. He then moved for a time to New Mexico to write, and worked at WCBS-TV as news director.
        Among his other jobs, he worked in 2001 as a staff writer for the NBC television series ''UC: Undercover.'' In 2002, he joined MSNBC.
        Mr. Nachman, whose marriage to Nancy Cook ended in divorce, is survived by his brother, Larry, of Staten Island.
        Correction:  January 24, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the broadcast and newspaper journalist Jerry Nachman on Wednesday misstated the award history of ''Politically Incorrect With Bill Maher'' when he was executive producer. It was nominated twice for an Emmy but did not win.
      