
        J. Wayne Fredericks, a retired businessman, diplomat and foundation executive credited with fostering American links with Africa, died on Aug. 18 in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 87.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        As an engineer in the late 1940's, Mr. Fredericks was sent to South Africa to build a Kellogg cereal plant there. In the 1960's, working for the State Department under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, he helped establish North American relations with emerging African states.
        Most recently, into the mid-1990's, he was counselor in residence for Africa at the Institute for International Education and at the Carnegie Corporation of New York. At his death, he remained on the boards of the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund and the University of Cape Town Fund.
        Jacob Wayne Fredericks was born in Wakarusa, Ind. He received an engineering degree from Purdue University in 1938. He joined the Army Air Forces in 1940 and flew the maximum allowed bombing missions, 50.
        He became a liaison officer to the Royal Air Force and was discharged as a lieutenant colonel, having been decorated with the Legion of Merit, Order of the British Empire and Croix de Guerre honors. He was recalled during the Korean War to work on strategic planning under Gen. Curtis E. LeMay.
        He worked for the Kellogg Company until 1956, then directed various domestic and foreign projects for the Ford Foundation in New York.
        From 1961 to 1967 he was first deputy assistant secretary of state for African affairs. He quietly opened contacts with liberation movements in southern Africa and worked with an Anglo-American-Canadian parliamentary group dealing with postcolonial Africa.
        He returned to the Ford Foundation to direct its Middle East and Africa programs until 1974. After that and through most of the 1980's he was a vice president for international affairs at Chase Manhattan Bank and later director of the international governmental affairs division of the Ford Motor Company.
        Mr. Fredericks is survived by his wife of 52 years, Anne Curtis Fredericks; a daughter, Maria of Manhattan; a son, William C., of Bronxville; a brother, Keith E., of Wakarusa; a sister, Lorraine Wyres of Elkhart, Ind.; and two grandchildren.
      