
        Bob O. Evans, a computer scientist who in the 1960's led the development of a new class of mainframe computers -- the famous 360's -- helping turn I.B.M. into a data-processing power, died on Thursday in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was sudden heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Evans led the team that developed the I.B.M. System/360, a new class of mainframe computers that changed the way the then fledgling computer industry viewed data processing. The new system transformed the basic architecture of computers and substantially reduced the cost of powerful computing.
        For I.B.M., the System/360 was an enormous undertaking and an equally huge risk. In 1960, Mr. Evans, then an I.B.M. engineering manager, persuaded Thomas J. Watson, the company's chairman, to abandon other projects to allow the company to focus on what was one of the largest privately financed commercial project undertaken up to that time.
        I.B.M., already a successful company with revenues of $3.2 billion, invested more than $5 billion in engineering, factories and equipment to create the System/360, opening five plants and hiring 60,000 employees.
        On April 7, 1964, Mr. Watson called the introduction of the System/360, named after degrees in a circle, the most important product announcement in the company's history.
        In April of this year, the Computer History Museum in San Jose, Calif., celebrated the 40th anniversary of the I.B.M. System/360, holding an event entitled, ''The 40th Anniversary of the Computer that Changed Everything: The IBM System/360.''
        ''Forty years later, many of the attributes born on the System 360 remain fundamental aspects of computing,'' said John Toole, executive director and chief executive of the Computer History Museum, in a statement.
        The museum recognized the contribution of Mr. Evans, along with Erich Bloch, now with Washington Advisory Group, a consultancy in Washington, and Fred Brooks, now Kenan Professor of Computer Science at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
        Mr. Bloch said Mr. Evans was ultimately responsible for the project, while Mr. Bloch was in charge of technology and Mr. Brooks oversaw the architecture and design. ''You cannot overstate his contribution,'' Mr. Bloch said. ''Probably without the 360 and his contribution the industry might have developed at a much slower rate, and maybe in a different direction. And probably not in a good one.''
        Mr. Evans is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Maria Bowman; three sons, Robert, Douglas and David; a daughter Cathleen Licero, who works in marketing at I.B.M.; and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Evans was born in Grand Island, Neb., in 1927, grew up in Shelton, Neb., and earned an engineering degree from Iowa State University. He joined I.B.M. in 1951 as a junior engineer. In 1969 he was named president of the systems development division. He was named vice president for engineering, programming and technology in 1977 and retired from I.B.M. in 1984.
        Colleagues in the computer industry were preparing to honor Mr. Evans at another Silicon Valley event next month, making him a fellow of the Computer History Museum.
      