
        Billy Davis, a Detroit singer and songwriter turned advertising executive who was involved in many of the most memorable R&B hits and musical ad campaigns of the late 20th century, died on Sept. 2 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 72. Mr. Davis's sister, Gladys Adams, did not announce a cause, saying only that he had been ill for some time.
        His most famous campaign, ''I'd Like to Buy the World a Coke,'' was a long-running television commercial and later a hit song on its own.
        As a rhythm-and-blues singer, Mr. Davis performed with an early version of the Four Tops and helped the group get its first recording contract. Under the name Tyran Carlo, he wrote music and lyrics for stars like Aretha Franklin, Marvin Gaye, James Brown and the Supremes. Mr. Davis's hit songs, many written with Berry Gordy, the founder of Motown Records, included ''Reet Petite,'' ''Lonely Teardrops'' and ''That's Why (I Love You So).''
        In later years, Mr. Davis also composed a string of successful advertising jingles, also including ''It's the Real Thing'' and ''Things Go Better With Coke'' for Coca-Cola, and ''If You've Got the Time'' for Miller Beer.
        Roquel Billy Davis was born July 11, 1932, in Detroit. His early musical experience had its roots in the city, with its vigorous popular music scene, and in his extended family.
        ''My career started early, singing on street corners,'' The Financial Times quoted Mr. Davis as having said. ''There was a doo-wop group for every neighborhood and talent shows every week.''
        In the early 1950's, a cousin of Mr. Davis, Lawrence Payton, started a group called the Four Aims. Mr. Davis, who sometimes sang with them as a fifth member, sent a tape of the group to Chess Records in Chicago.
        Although Chess was more enthusiastic about Mr. Davis's original material than about the group itself, it signed the Four Aims to the label in 1956. To avoid confusion with the Ames Brothers, the group changed its name to the Four Tops.
        Though the Four Tops did poorly at Chess, the label gave several of Mr. Davis's compositions to its other artists, including ''See Saw,'' recorded by the Moonglows and ''A Kiss From Your Lips,'' recorded by the Flamingos.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Davis joined forces with Mr. Gordy when he was an up-and-coming Detroit songwriter and producer. They collaborated on several hits, including ''To Be Loved'' and ''I'll Be Satisfied,'' for another of Mr. Davis's cousins, Jackie Wilson.
        At first, writing for Mr. Wilson was reward enough in itself.
        ''We didn't even know we were supposed to be paid,'' Mr. Davis told The Detroit News last year.
        When they finally asked for money, it caused a break with Mr. Wilson's manager. The two men struck out on their own. Mr. Davis helped start Anna Records, later absorbed into Mr. Gordy's Motown label.
        ''If it wasn't for that rejection, then maybe there wouldn't have been a Motown,'' Mr. Davis said last year.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Davis became a producer and A&R director at Chess. There, he produced the hit ''Rescue Me,'' sung by Fontella Bass.
        The record caught the attention of the New York advertising agency McCann-Erickson. In 1968, Mr. Davis joined the agency, becoming music director and eventually a senior vice president.
        In hiring Mr. Davis, McCann-Erickson was one of the first agencies to take pop music seriously as a way to sell consumer goods. Working with the agency's creative director, Bill Backer, and the British songwriter Roger Cook, Mr. Davis created a jingle for Coca-Cola tentatively titled ''Mom, True Love and Apple Pie.'' Mr. Davis adapted the tune from an earlier song by Mr. Cook and Roger Greenaway.
        Recorded by the New Seekers under the title ''I'd Like to Buy the World a Coke,'' the song was a failure when it was first played on the radio in 1971. But when it was rerecorded for a television spot, this time sung by an enormous children's chorus, it quickly and indelibly imprinted itself in the minds of a generation.
        Mr. Davis rewrote it as ''I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing (in Perfect Harmony).''
        Mr. Davis is survived by his sister, of Baldwin, N.Y., and a son, Shawn, of New Rochelle. His wife, Patricia Hardy, died last year.
        ''Using music in a commercial is a great aid to recall,'' Mr. Davis told The Detroit Free Press in 1983. ''It will help you remember the commercial and the product. Music allows you to add emotional content.''
        But Pepsi, not Coke, was the beverage of choice when he was a teenager, he told the paper, because a Pepsi was only a nickel, while it took two to buy a Coke.
      