
        Jonathan Mark Scharer, the original producer of the perennial Off Broadway spoof revue, ''Forbidden Broadway,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 56.
        The cause was cancer, said the Overland Entertainment Company, a production company he founded in 1986. His final productions as its president were off-the-court interludes at this year's United States Open in Flushing, Queens, including Jessye Norman's rendition of the National Anthem, to be performed today at the women's final.
        Mr. Scharer also produced national tours for performers like Blondie, Bob Marley, Talking Heads and Big Audio Dynamite. He staged shows at special events for national magazines and for corporate clients like UBS, I.B.M., Seagram Americas and Pepsico.
        He was associate producer and then co-producer with Ron Delsener of ''Michael Feinstein in Concert,'' which ran on Broadway in 1988. Before that he was on Mr. Delsener's team for the annual Schaefer Music Festival in Central Park.
        Mr. Scharer was mostly associated with rock 'n' roll concerts until 1982, when he first produced ''Forbidden Broadway'' in a nightclublike setting at Theater East on 60th Street. A sendup of the Great White Way's biggest hits that was usually updated annually, it continued for a dozen years under Mr. Scharer's aegis and has been carried on by other producers in New York and around the country. The most recent New York production was by Gerard Alessandrini in 2002.
        Jonathan Scharer was born in Manhattan and graduated from Boston University in 1970. He received an M.F.A. in 1974 from the Yale University School of Drama, where he started his career in public relations at the Yale Repertory Theater.
        Since founding Overland Entertaiment, he arranged special events for many magazines, including Women of the Year Awards for Glamour and GQ's Man of the Year Awards. His company has been producing entertainment in Flushing for the United States Tennis Association for several years.
        Mr. Scharer is survived by his parents, Si and Vivian Scharer of Great Neck, N.Y.; a sister, Joan Karan of Madison, Wis.; and his companion, James Caselli.
        One of Mr. Scharer's first acts actually got him to Carnegie Hall. He was the producer and co-presenter with Mr. Delsener of ''An Evening With Groucho Marx'' at a sold-out Carnegie in 1972. For Groucho, then 82, it was his first New York stage show in 43 years.
      