
        Ralph G. Allen, a Guggenheim-winning theater historian who parlayed a scholarly paper on the pratfalls, bawdy humor and very bad puns of American burlesque into the book of the hit Broadway musical ''Sugar Babies,'' died on Thursday after a walk in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Knoxville, Tenn.
        No cause of death was given, but his wife, Harriet Nichols, said Dr. Allen had suffered from heart trouble and diabetes for some time.
        ''Sugar Babies,'' starring Ann Miller and Mickey Rooney in his Broadway debut, was a loving homage to the old-fashioned burlesque revue. Conceived by Dr. Allen and Harry Rigby, with music by Jimmy McHugh and lyrics by Dorothy Fields and Al Dubin, the show opened at the Mark Hellinger Theater in October 1979. A hit with both critics and audiences, it ran for nearly three years, with 1,208 performances.Dr. Allen's book, based on the traditional routines that he had adored as a young man, was nominated for a Tony Award.
        Reviewing the show in The New York Times, Walter Kerr called it ''an entertainment that is impurely and simply honest about the wild way things once were.''
        By day, Dr. Allen, was a respected scholar. For many years a professor of theater at the University of Tennessee, also taught at New York University, U.C.L.A. and the University of Pittsburgh.
        But the after-hours world of the burlesque house, with its spraying seltzer bottles, scantily clad chorus girls and creaky but remarkably funny jokes, was never far from his mind.
        Dr. Allen was born on Jan. 7, 1934, in Philadelphia, and saw his first burlesque show as a teenager.
        ''At first all the boys went down there to see the girls,'' Dr. Allen's wife recalled. ''But he found that he loved the jokes.'' None are printable in a family newspaper.
        He kept going back, first as an enthusiast, eventually as an academic. Dr. Allen held a bachelor's degree from Amherst College and a doctorate from the Yale School of Drama, where he met his wife, an actress and translator. She is his only immediate survivor.
        In moments stolen from his academic work ( he was an authority on, among other things, the 18th-century painter Philip James de Loutherbourg, who designed scenery for David Garrick) Dr. Allen visited theaters around the country, sitting with elderly comics and taking down their routines. He amassed a collection of some 5,000 comedy sketches.
        He considered writing a book, but Dr. Allen realized it would be much more fun to put on a show. He wrote a revue, based on the sketches, which was performed at the University of Tennessee.
        Some time later, Dr. Allen gave a talk in New York at a conference on early-20th-century popular entertainment. As part of his lecture, he read the script of his revue. Afterward, he was approached by a member of the audience, Mr. Rigby, a producer.
        ''You've got something really funny here,'' Mr. Rigby said, and the two men began work on what would become ''Sugar Babies.''
        When the show opened on Broadway, it featured not only period songs (including ''I Can't Give You Anything But Love,'' ''Sunny Side of the Street'') and tap dance (starring Ms. Miller's still-fabulous gams), but also a fan dance, a flock of doves, Ms. Miller whacking Mr. Rooney's wig off his head with a rolled-up newspaper and Mr. Rooney waddling gamely around the stage in drag.
        Dr. Allen's other stage work included a revival of Ibsen's ''Ghosts,'' which he produced for the Kennedy Center in 1982. In collaboration with David Campbell, he also wrote the book and lyrics for the Broadway musical ''Honky Tonk Nights,'' about black vaudeville. It ran for just four performances in 1986.
        In later years Dr. Allen continued to combine his scholarly and popular pursuits, teaching classes on the history of vaudeville and lecturing on jokes and their meanings. But it was ''Sugar Babies,'' a musical with a singular distinction, of which he was most proud.
        ''It became the only scholarly paper,'' Dr. Allen's wife explained, ''to be made into a Broadway show.''
      