
        Fred Ebb, the devilishly witty Broadway lyricist who was half of the legendary musical theater team of Kander and Ebb, responsible for the songs in classic shows like ''Cabaret'' and ''Chicago,'' died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Mr. Ebb was coy about his exact age; his birth year was regularly listed as 1933, but the funeral home, after consulting with his family, will list his age as 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, said John Kander, the composer and Mr. Ebb's longtime writing partner.
        With a presence on Broadway for nearly 40 years and through a dozen different musicals, Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb had one of the longest-running collaborations in the history of the American musical theater. From their Broadway debut in 1965, with ''Flora, the Red Menace,'' starring a teenage Liza Minnelli, to the current long-running revival of ''Chicago,'' Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb were known for their sometimes saucy, sometimes sincere subject matter, their often pointed political undertones, and more than anything their uncanny ability to fuse sharp lyrics and catchy melodies into hummable, quotable musical theater.
        Much of the team's comic sensibility came from Mr. Ebb, whose hangdog expression and deadpan personal manner belied an effusive passion for a well-turned phrase. Typical was ''Don't Tell Mama'' from ''Cabaret,'' in which a chorus of fallen women, led by Sally Bowles, pleads -- sort of -- for a little discretion:
        Mama thinks I'm on a tour of Europe,
        With a couple of my school chums and a lady chaperone.
        Mama doesn't even have an inkling,
        That I left them all in Antwerp and I'm touring on my own.
        While ''Cabaret'' -- which won eight Tony Awards, including best composer and lyricist, in 1967 -- may have been Mr. Ebb's best-known show, it was far from the only success he tasted. Mr. Ebb and Mr. Kander's work on ''Woman of the Year'' (1981) and ''Kiss of the Spider Woman'' (1993) also won Tony Awards for best score, while film versions of ''Cabaret'' (1972) and ''Chicago'' (2002) were both nominated for Academy Awards for best picture. (''Chicago'' won.)
        Mr. Ebb's career was also marked by his professional association and personal connections with many of the most famous actors, producers and theatrical personalities of the post-World War II period, considered the golden age of the American musical.
        Directors like Harold Prince (''Cabaret,'' ''Zorba''), Gower Champion (''The Happy Time'') and Bob Fosse (''Chicago'') were ardent believers in the early work of the songwriting team, though Mr. Ebb sometimes clashed with Mr. Fosse, who was known as a perfectionist.
        ''I wanted to kill Bob Fosse on many occasions,'' Mr. Ebb joked -- sort of -- at a June event at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, where Mr. Ebb donated his papers.
        He had a particularly close relationship with Ms. Minnelli, for whom he wrote regularly (for Broadway shows like ''Liza,'' in 1974, and ''The Act'' in 1977, as well as for television); he even gave her away at her 1974 wedding to Jack Haley Jr.
        She was hardly the first -- or last -- diva Mr. Ebb would work with; the list includes Shirley MacLaine (a 1976 solo show), Chita Rivera (''Chicago,'' ''The Rink,'' ''Spider Woman'') and Lauren Bacall (''Woman of the Year''). One of his first collaborations with Mr. Kander, ''I Don't Care Much,'' was recorded by Barbra Streisand.
        Not that Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb weren't also popular with the fellas (and goodfellas); their song ''New York, New York,'' from the 1977 Martin Scorsese film of the same title, starring Robert De Niro and Ms. Minnelli, was one of many standards for which Mr. Ebb provided the words.
        Born on the Lower East Side, Mr. Ebb wasn't instantly drawn to theater. According to a 1976 profile in The New York Times, he graduated from New York University with a B.A. before getting a master's degree in English literature from Columbia University. A series of odd jobs followed, including working in a Brooklyn furniture store.
        In off hours, the young Mr. Ebb took in musicals, a form of which he was not especially fond. ''They made me crazy,'' he said in 1976.
        His introduction to the music business came in the late 1950's, when he began working for a songwriter named Philip Springer. Several other artistic collaborations -- and a few popular songs, including one in the 1960 Broadway revue ''From A to Z'' -- followed before Mr. Ebb and Mr. Kander met in 1963 at the recommendation of a music publisher with whom each man had signed.
        It was, as each remembered it, a perfect fit. Working out of Mr. Ebb's Upper West Side apartment, the two wrote dozens of songs for every available outlet, including cabaret showcases, nightclub acts and the pop charts. But bigger stages awaited: their first musical, ''Flora,'' in 1965, was optioned by none other than the legendary George Abbott, who wrote the book with Robert Russell and took a chance on the production with a somewhat unorthodox story (about a group of youthful Communists in the 1930's) and a 19-year-old actress, Ms. Minnelli, in the title role.
        ''Flora'' would last less than three months on Broadway, but Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb's embrace of risky material would pay huge dividends a year later, when ''Cabaret'' opened. A musical adaptation of John van Druten's play ''I Am a Camera,'' itself a dramatization of Christopher Isherwood's ''Berlin Stories,'' ''Cabaret'' dared to play with singing Nazis, a creepy M.C. and lusty women, and won near-unanimous plaudits from the critics for doing so.
        The show, with a libretto by Joe Masteroff, won the Tony Award for best musical in 1967 and would run on Broadway until 1969. In 1972 the film version -- with Ms. Minnelli as Sally Bowles and Joel Grey as the M.C. -- would win over an even broader, worldwide audience.
        On Broadway, meanwhile, Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb would churn out a series of less successful musicals -- ''Zorba,'' an adaptation, and the short-lived ''70, Girls, 70'' -- before trying another tricky story, this time about a group of murderous sexpots doing soft time in a famously lax Illinois penitentiary. The musical was ''Chicago'' (1975), which Mr. Fosse directed and choreographed and which starred Chita Rivera, Gwen Verdon and Jerry Orbach. The reviews this time weren't as rapturous -- Clive Barnes, in The New York Times, called it ''brassy, sassy, raunchy, but mechanical'' -- but the show still ran for more than two years.
        Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb would stay on Broadway for most of the next two decades, mixing attempts like ''The Rink'' (1984) with more successful adaptations of films like ''Woman of the Year'' and ''Kiss of the Spider Woman.'' The team's final original Broadway musical came in 1997 with ''Steel Pier,'' which lasted a little more than two months.
        At the same time, however, a whole new generation of musical fans was being introduced to the pair's work via two highly successful revivals -- ''Chicago'' (in 1996) and ''Cabaret'' (in 1998). The film version of ''Chicago'' also proved to be a giant hit.
        (The cast of the Broadway ''Chicago'' was informed of Mr. Ebb's death after Saturday night's performance and was to dedicate last night's and tonight's shows to him.)
        Mr. Kander and Mr. Ebb had remained active as a songwriting team; according to The Associated Press, at the time of Mr. Ebb's death the team was revising ''Over and Over,'' a musical based on Thornton Wilder's dark comedy ''The Skin of Our Teeth,'' and working on a murder-mystery musical called ''Curtains.'' Their final completed musical, ''The Visit,'' based on a play by Friedrich Dürrenmatt and with a book by Terrence McNally, had its premiere in Chicago in 2001. It was to have opened in New York at the Public Theater, starring Chita Rivera, last season but was derailed after its financing fell apart.
        Mr. Ebb is survived by three nephews and three nieces.
        Reached yesterday by telephone, Mr. Kander said Mr. Ebb's death had been sudden and had shaken him. ''It's a terrific loss to a lot of people and to me,'' Mr. Kander said.
      