
        James A. Westphal, an astronomer who led the Palomar Observatory and directed the team that built the first camera for the Hubble Space Telescope, died on Wednesday at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 74.
        His death followed a long illness, officials at the California Institute of Technology said. The institute operates the observatory.
        A self-tutored astronomer, tinkerer and inventor of instruments that greatly extended the reach of science into the cosmos and under the ground, Mr. Westphal rose to the rank of professor and the observatory directorship with dozens of papers, 15 patents and a 1991 MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant without ever earning a Ph.D.
        Fellow astronomers and other scientists called him a giant of astronomy and said he had an extraordinary knack for finding creative solutions to exciting problems.
        ''I never met a man more creative and imaginative who could translate ideas into frontier technology,'' said Dr. John Bahcall of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who called Mr. Westphal a driving force behind the success of the space telescope.
        Dr. Bruce C. Murray, a geologist and planetary scientist at Caltech and a former director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said that creativity crossed disciplinary lines, from geology to planetary science to visible and infrared astronomy.
        As a result, ''he was everybody's collaborator,'' Dr. Murray said.
        Born on June 13, 1930, in Dubuque, Iowa, James Adolph Westphal worked his way through college prospecting for oil in Mexico and the Texas Panhandle. After graduating with a bachelor's degree in physics from the University of Tulsa in 1954, he worked as an oil geologist.
        In 1961, he moved to Caltech for four months to help build a machine to analyze seismological data. But in no time, he branched out, becoming involved with Dr. Murray, for example, in a project to use recently declassified detectors to study invisible infrared, or ''heat,'' radiation from the Moon, to find out whether its surface is rock or powder and thus whether astronauts would sink when they stepped on it.
        Caltech hired Mr. Westphal full time and quickly promoted him through the ranks, appointing him an associate professor of planetary science and geology in 1971 and a full professor in 1976. He directed Palomar from 1995 until retiring in 1998.
        Among his geological achievements were electrical instruments to sense the movement of magma and developing cheap portable tiltmeters that could be left on glaciers or volcanoes to track and report on ground deformation.
        It was in astronomy that Mr. Westphal made his greatest mark. He spearheaded a revolution in which astronomers went from using photographic plates to much more efficient electronic detectors.
        When the Hubble telescope was being planned, he was determined that its main camera, the wide-field planetary camera, should use the most promising new technology available, chips known as charged-couple devices that the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and Texas Instruments were developing for the NASA Galileo spacecraft. The rules for wide-field camera specified an older, less promising technology.
        Dr. Bahcall, who was on the working group that planned the telescope, recalled that Mr. Westphal and his collaborator Dr. James E. Gunn, now at Princeton University, took him to lunch to persuade him to have his colleagues change the rules.
        Dr. Lyman Spitzer of Princeton, originator of the telescope idea, had proposed building the camera with the older technology, but agreed to allow the newer technology to compete with his own proposal.
        Mr. Westphal assembled a team, with Dr. Gunn as his deputy, that won the contract to build the wide-field camera that was launched with the telescope in 1990. When the telescope mirror was found to be flawed, astronauts swapped the original camera for an identical one fitted with corrective optics. Ever since, the crystalline images of deep space from the telescope have transfixed astronomers and the public.
        ''All those wonderful pictures wouldn't have happened without him,'' Dr. Gunn said.
        Surviving are Mr. Westphal's wife, Jean; a son, Andrew, of Richmond, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Robin Stroll of Agoura Hills, Calif., and Susan Stroll of Eagle Rock, Calif.; and two granddaughters.
      