
        James D. Barber, a Duke University political scientist and authority on the American presidential character who predicted the downfall of Richard M. Nixon several years before the fact, died Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 74.
        The cause was complications of primary progressive aphasia, a neurological disorder, his son Luke said.
        Dr. Barber's best-known book, ''The Presidential Character,'' published in 1972, argued that a president's psychological makeup, established early in life, could predict his performance in office. One of the first studies to explore the effect of individual temperament on the course of global politics, the book quickly became a classic in the field.
        ''The lives of presidents past and of the one still with us show, I think, how a start from character makes possible a realistic estimate of what will endure into a man's White House years,'' Dr. Barber wrote. ''Character is the force, the motive power, around which the person gathers his view of the world, and from which his style receives its impetus. The issues will change; the character of the president will not.''
        Reviewing ''The Presidential Character'' in The New York Times Book Review, Bruce Mazlish wrote, ''Given the imposing power of our presidents today, there are few subjects of greater import; and Barber has written an important book on the subject.''
        Analyzing presidential character, Dr. Barber focused on two criteria: whether a president was active or passive, and whether he viewed his job in positive or negative terms.
        In combination, the criteria formed four distinct personality types. Active-positive presidents, who brought energy and enjoyment to their work, included Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, Dr. Barber wrote. Passive-positives, like William Howard Taft, were compliant and superficially cheerful. Passive-negatives, like Calvin Coolidge and Dwight D. Eisenhower, were sullen and withdrawn, viewing the office as a burden.
        The most dangerous type, Dr. Barber wrote, was the active-negative. Though energetic, such men were also joyless, inflexible, compulsive and domineering, with ''a strong bent for digging their own graves.'' In this category he listed Lyndon B. Johnson and Nixon.
        Addressing a meeting of the American Political Science Association in 1969, Dr. Barber said: ''The danger is that Nixon will commit himself irrevocably to some disastrous course of action. This is precisely the possibility against which he could defend himself by a stylistic adjustment in his relations with his White House friends.''
        Nixon resigned in 1974 under threat of impeachment during the Watergate scandal.
        James David Barber was born July 31, 1930, in Charleston, W.Va. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. from Yale. He joined the Duke faculty in 1972; from 1977 until his retirement in 1995 he was James B. Duke professor of political science. His other books include ''The Pulse of Politics'' (1980) and ''Politics by Humans'' (1988).
        After an earlier marriage that ended in divorce, Dr. Barber married Amanda Mackay Smith in 1972. She survives him, as do their sons, Luke, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Silas, of Durham; two daughters from his first marriage, Sara Connor, of Boylston, Mass., and Jane Barber Thery, of Washington; a brother, Timothy, of Charleston, and two grandchildren.
        Dr. Barber, a Democrat, was often asked by news organizations to advise the voting public. ''I would advise the citizen choosing a president not to count on major changes in basic personality, basic beliefs or basic political skills as that creature of habit moves into the White House,'' he told Washingtonian magazine in 1994. ''The pathetic hope that the White House will turn a Caligula into a Marcus Aurelius is as naïve as the fear that ultimate power inevitably corrupts.''
      