
        Jerry Turner, the longtime artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, one of the nation's best regarded regional theaters, died on Sept. 2 at his home in Olympia, Wash. He was 76.
        The cause was heart failure, said Libby Appel, the festival's current artistic director.
        Mr. Turner first joined the festival in 1957, working as an actor and director while also teaching drama. After a year in Sweden studying Strindberg (and Swedish), he returned to Oregon in 1971 to take over the post of artistic director and immediately committed the theater to a goal of developing new plays and playwrights.
        His approach was ambitious and no-nonsense. ''We have all we need for a theater of greatness: players, two stages, staff, playwrights and a rightfully possessive audience,'' he said shortly after taking the position. ''May we be worthy of the task.''
        Since its founding by Angus Browner in 1935, the festival, in the picturesque town of Ashland, Ore., had produced a steady stream of Shakespeare before branching out to embrace other authors -- even contemporary ones -- during the 1960's.
        Mr. Turner, who succeeded Mr. Browner, continued that trend, directing more than 40 productions during the next two decades, showing a particular fondness for brooding Scandinavians like Ibsen and Strindberg, two writers whose work he regularly translated. He also worked to expand the theater's audience -- it doubled to more than 300,000 in his first decade as director -- and to upgrade its facilities, opening a third theater in Ashland and a satellite company in Portland in 1988. Mr. Turner also upgraded the talent, establishing the festival as an Equity company, meaning it used only professional union actors, in the early 1980's.
        The work did not go unnoticed. In 1983 the festival was presented with a special Tony Award for excellence in regional theater. In 1990 the theater made another kind of headline when Mr. Turner and the theater's board rejected a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts because of what they termed restrictive language, a move that earned the theater a special commendation from the American Civil Liberties Union. At the time of Mr. Turner's retirement in 1991 the festival had grown into a $12 million-a-year operation with a nearly year-round repertory.
        Mr. Turner, who continued as artistic director emeritus at the theater to the time of his death, is survived by his wife, Mary Turner; a brother, Robert, of Loveland, Colo.; a sister, Dorothy Prewitt, of Ruidoso, N.M.; a daughter,, Erika Turner Britton, and a son, Michael Turner, both of Riverside, Calif.; and a stepson, Ralph Young, of Olympia, Wash.
        Correction:  September 16, 2004, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Jerry Turner, longtime artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, misstated the surname of the program's founder. He was Angus Bowmer, not Browner.
      