
        Russ Meyer, whose 1960's fantasy films about the antics of giant-breasted, often assertive women were among the first ''nudies'' to have a story line but who later flirted with respectability when his style of filmmaking became influential in the mainstream movie industry, died on Saturday at his home in the Hollywood Hills. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Janice Cowart, an employee of his company, RM Films International.
        Mr. Meyer is often credited with inventing the ''skin flick'' as a commercial proposition, but he also drew praise for the artistic vision and raw energy he brought to two dozen films, four or which are in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art. He became one of the first moviemakers in his licentious genre to move to mainline cinema without altering his style.
        ''Of all the sexploitation filmmakers, he is the one guy who crossed over,'' said his biographer, Jimmy McDonough, adding that because of his popularity he was recruited by 20th Century Fox to make ''Beyond the Valley of the Dolls,'' a 1970 picture about an all-woman rock group.
        ''The kingdom came to him, he didn't go to Hollywood,'' Mr. McDonough said in an interview yesterday. (The biography, ''Big Bosoms and Square Jaws,'' is scheduled for publication by Crown next year.)
        Mr. Meyer was notorious for casting only women with huge breasts -- ''cantilevered ladies,'' he called them -- in films with titles like ''Wild Gals of the Naked West'' and ''Vixen!,'' but he shied away from nudity below the waist. He denounced many later films as pornographic.
        When his 1965 movie ''Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!'' was re-released 30 years later, even some feminists claimed to find its tale of three homicidal go-go dancers invigorating and empowering. In The Village Voice, B. Ruby Rich, who had once considered the movie just another exploitation film, called it ''a female fantasy.''
        John Waters, who himself crossed over from underground films to Hollywood respectability with ''Hairspray,'' has been widely quoted as saying ''Pussycat'' may have been the best movie ever made. His praise only began there. ''It is possibly better than any film that will be made in the future,'' he said.
        Mr. Meyer ultimately became a symbol of an America struggling to throw off the shackles of Puritanism, Mr. McDonough suggested, comparing him to Jerry Lee Lewis in music. His cult standing can be seen in rock groups like Mudhoney, who have named themselves after his movies.
        There is even a school of thought that Mr. Meyer had a higher purpose than what his films seem to suggest.
        ''For him, sex was a way to get money and distribution, so he could do extremely personal movies,'' Roger Ebert said in an interview with The New York Times in 2002.
        Aljean Harmetz wrote in The Times in 1969, ''In each film there is the crude energy, real sweat and half-hidden sexual antagonism that exists between men and women who lead unexamined, unarticulated lives.''
        Russell Albion Meyer was born in Oakland on March 21, 1922. His father was a policeman who abandoned the family before he was born. His mother was a nurse who bought him his first camera when he was 14.
        A 2002 article in The Times reported that he whiled away hours at school fantasizing about his busty teacher. He was a combat photographer during World War II, and some of his footage ended up in ''Patton.''
        After the war he shot industrial pictures, and photographed his wife, Eve, for some of Playboy's early nude pictorials. That marriage and two others ended in divorce, and Mr. Meyer leaves no immediate survivors.
        In 1959, he made his first feature film, ''The Immoral Mr. Teas.'' The Wall Street Journal estimated that it inspired 150 imitations within a year. The plot concerned a man who could see every woman naked, whether she was or not.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Meyer made a string of low-budget drive-in features, all of which he directed and many of which he wrote, edited and photographed. This was his so-called gothic period, in which he downplayed raunch in favor of his own quirky vision with sinister story lines, violence and back-and-white cinematography. At this point he began to be seen by some as a cinematic visionary, an auteur.
        His breakthrough came in 1970 when 20th Century Fox hired him to make ''Beyond the Valley of the Dolls,'' his passport to Hollywood legitimacy. His friend Mr. Ebert wrote the screenplay.
        Jacqueline Susann, who wrote the book on which the original movie, ''Valley of the Dolls,'' was based, protested that the project misused her work. This prompted Vincent Canby, the Times film critic, to say, ''Any movie the Jacqueline Susann thinks would damage her reputation as a writer cannot be all bad.''
        But in his judgment it pretty much was. And five years later, in his review of Mr. Meyer's ''Supervixens,'' Mr. Canby ventured that the director had become outmoded because dirty movies were nearly ubiquitous. Mr. Meyer's last movie was ''Beneath the Valley of the Ultra-Vixens'' in 1979.
        His ''Bra of God,'' with a screenplay by Mr. Ebert, was never made.
      