
        W. Dorwin Teague, an industrial designer and inventor who built, quite literally, the stuff of everyday life, died on Sept. 16 in Carbondale, Colo. He was 94. He lived in Carbondale, after spending many years as a resident of Nyack, N.Y.
        Mr. Teague's son Harry announced the death.
        Mr. Teague, who was overshadowed early in his career by his father, Walter Dorwin Teague, one of the most eminent designers of the 1920's and 30's, was responsible for some of the most recognizable artifacts of the postwar culture. Among them were the cash register that rang up the purchases of millions of baby boomers and their parents; the mimeograph machine that was a fixture of offices and classrooms across the country; and the first fully reclining dental chair, which for legions of grateful practitioners and their patients, made a visit to the dentist more efficient and a lot more comfortable.
        Where the previous generation of designers, like Russell Wright, Norman Bel Geddes and Mr. Teague's father, had concentrated on the surface of things, Mr. Teague, trained in engineering, liked to get under the hood.
        ''For the early industrial designers, the satisfaction in taking an ugly product and making it more pleasing aesthetically was the reward,'' he wrote in a memoir, ''Industrial Designer: The Artist as Engineer'' (1998). ''For me the ideal task is one in which I can contribute to the basic function and performance, to making it smaller, lighter, easier to use and better at its job, which invariably results in a better appearance as well.''
        Working in the heyday of mass production, Mr. Teague shaped many of the familiar -- and less familiar -- objects of American material culture. Besides the cash register, for the National Cash Register Company, and the mimeograph machine, for A.B. Dick, he designed radio dials and bicycle brakes; ice buckets and can openers; carpet sweepers, vacuum cleaners and a treadle garbage can; a self-closing pen and a ship's gangplank; rockets, a waterbed and a water-powered toothbrush; and, near the end of his career, a lightweight pump that provided fresh water to rural villages in India and Africa.
        Walter Dorwin Teague Jr. was born in Manhattan on July 2, 1910. In 1929, while an engineering student at M.I.T., he executed one of his best-known designs, the Marmon 16 automobile, for his father's firm. (His father took official credit for the design, but the son did most of the actual work, Mr. Teague wrote.) Though the Marmon Motor Car Company produced fewer than 400 of the cars before the Depression put it out of business, Mr. Teague's design was praised for its clean, streamlined look.
        After two years at M.I.T., Mr. Teague left to work for his father's firm; in the 1940's and 50's, as an engineer for Bendix Aviation Corporation, he designed the Lark surface-to-surface and the Loki surface-to-air liquid propellant rockets. He started his own firm, Dorwin Teague Inc., in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., in 1966.
        Mr. Teague's wife, the former Harriette Barnard, died in 1998 after 59 years of marriage. He is survived by three sons, Walter Dorwin III, of Adelphi, Md.; Lewis, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Aspen, Colo.; and Harry, of Basalt, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
        With his dental chair, which garnered a certificate of merit from the Industrial Designers Institute in 1960, Mr. Teague demonstrated design's capacity to drive social change. Dental chairs had scarcely changed since the early 1800's. Little more than barber chairs, they reclined only slightly, leaving the patient's mouth accessible only though painful craning of the neck. Dentists fared little better: the chair's design forced them to work standing; chronic backache, from years of stooping to do their work, was a common occupational hazard. As a result of these poor ergonomic conditions, dental appointments were long, arduous affairs.
        Mr. Teague's chair, which resembled a chaise longue, let the patient lie flat and the dentist work seated. The mouth was easy to reach, and the work proceeded faster and more comfortably. Since the 1960's, fully reclining chairs have been standard in dentist's offices, making a visit if not an unalloyed pleasure, somewhat less torturous for all concerned.
        Correction:  November 20, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the industrial designer W. Dorwin Teague on Sept. 26 credited an innovation to him erroneously. Mr. Teague invented a fully reclining dental chair, which was first manufactured in 1959 and received patents in 1961 and 1962, but it was not the first such chair. At least one appeared ahead of his: In 1958, John Naughton marketed a reclining dental chair of a different design. He received a patent in 1965. Mr. Naughton's son alerted The Times to the error last month, and this correction was delayed for research.
      