
        Gardner Botsford, a veteran editor at The New Yorker magazine who helped shape its reputation and its style under the longtime editorship of William Shawn, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87.
        The cause was bone marrow disease, said his wife, the author Janet Malcolm.
        In a 37-year career that began before World War II, Mr. Botsford gained increasing responsibility for maintaining a singular staff of nonfiction writers, from Janet Flanner and A.J. Liebling to Joseph Mitchell, Roger Angell and, in later years, his wife, Ms. Malcolm. In an interview yesterday, Ms. Malcolm said, ''I think of all the pieces of mine that he edited as collaborations.''
        A tall, slender man with Old World manners, Mr. Botsford was known for unobtrusiveness. ''He'd take something you'd written and make it better, and it would be very hard to tell how he'd done it,'' Mr. Angell said yesterday. ''That delighted him.'' David Remnick, the magazine's current editor, said: ''The New Yorker's journalism grew more serious and deeper during World War II and after. Gardner Botsford experienced war firsthand, edited crucial writers and was an enormous part of the process.''
        Born on July 7, 1917, and raised in New York City, Mr. Botsford was drafted into the Army in 1942 and was part of the D-Day landing in Normandy and fought in the Battle of the Bulge. He was wounded and decorated for his service, which he described in a 2003 memoir, ''A Life of Privilege, Mostly.''
        In it, he describes his childhood of luxury as the son of Ruth Gardner, a Midwestern heiress whose family invented the Gardner governor, a device that controlled steam engines. Mr. Botsford's father, Alfred Miller Botsford, was a journalist and eventually worked in the advertising department for the Famous Players-Lasky movie company.
        Mr. Botsford's parents divorced, and his mother remarried Raoul Fleischmann, whose family had bankrolled The New Yorker and with whom Mr. Botsford spent much of his childhood. There were eight servants for a family of five at their New York town house, and summers were spent in France and on Long Island.
        He grew up surrounded by writers and actors. Harpo Marx visited the family house in Port Washington, and knowing that his mother insisted that people wear shoes at the table, Mr. Botsford wrote, came to lunch with pansies and cornflowers tucked between his toes. Mr. Botsford attended boarding school at Hotchkiss and later went to Yale. After he left Yale, Mr. Botsford got a job as a reporter at The New Yorker. Harold Ross, who was often at odds with the Fleischmann family, soon fired him, however, and suggested that he get some experience on a newspaper. Mr. Botsford became a reporter at The Jacksonville Journal in Florida. In 1942 he was re-hired by The New Yorker, this time at the behest of William Shawn, who worked the managing editor for Ross and intervened on the young man's behalf. ''Botsford, unfortunately, is a Fleischmann ex-stepson [the old bugaboo!],'' Shawn wrote his boss. ''But I don't see why that should be a consideration.''
        After the war, he returned to The New Yorker and gradually cemented his position as one of its most powerful editors.
        Mr. Botsford's first wife, Katharine Chittenden, died in 1974, and the following year he married Ms. Malcolm, whom he had edited since the 1960's. ''Their love grew out of the editing,'' Mr. Angell recalled.
        Mr. Botsford's role as Ms. Malcolm's editor became an issue in 1993, after the psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson had sued Ms. Malcolm for libel. Mr. Masson's lawyer questioned whether Mr. Botsford had sufficiently scrutinized the quotations that his wife had used in her article. In 1994 a jury in San Francisco ruled that two of five disputed quotations were false and one defamatory but that none had been written in such a reckless way that they would constitute libel.
        Mr. Botsford retired from the New Yorker in 1982. He is survived by Ms. Malcolm; two daughters from his first marriage, Margot, a Superior Court judge, of Jamaica Plain, Mass., and Dr. Susan Workum, of Cambridge, Mass.; three grandchildren; and one stepgrandchild.
        Correction:  October 2, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Gardner Botsford, a retired editor at The New Yorker, gave a misspelled name in some copies for the Boston neighborhood where a surviving daughter, Margot, lives. It is Jamaica Plain, not Jamaica Plains.
        Correction:  October 19, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on Sept. 29 about Gardner Botsford, a longtime editor at The New Yorker, referred incompletely to results of two trials in the libel suit brought by the psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson against the magazine and Mr. Botsford's wife, the writer Janet Malcolm, over a profile she wrote about Mr. Masson.
        The first trial, in 1993, ended in a deadlock over potential damages to Mr. Masson, and the judge ordered a new one. But the magazine and Mr. Botsford, whose editing of his wife's manuscript had been called into question by the plaintiff's lawyer, were held blameless. The second trial, in 1994, in which Ms. Malcolm was the sole defendant, found that two of five disputed quotations were false and one of those was defamatory, but that it was not written with the reckless disregard that would have allowed libel damages.
      