
        Dr. Selig Neubardt, a Westchester obstetrician and gynecologist and an author who was a prominent early advocate for birth control and safe abortion, died on Aug. 24 in White Plains. He was 78 and lived in New Rochelle.
        The cause was pneumonia, said a son, Dr. Seth Neubardt, a spinal surgeon at White Plains Hospital Center, where his father died.
        Dr. Neubardt had a private gynecological practice in New Rochelle for four decades, but developed a larger profile through his books, articles and television appearances. His first book, ''A Concept of Contraception'' (1967), was aimed at a general audience and intended as an upbeat guide to encourage men and women to consider birth control.
        During that period, Dr. Neubardt wrote numerous articles for Cosmopolitan magazine promoting contraception and the birth control pill and describing procedures for abortion. In 1972, he was a co-author of ''Techniques of Abortion,'' with Dr. Harold Schulman, a colleague from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. The book is a medical text that explains procedures for aborting fetuses in the first and second trimesters of pregnancy.
        The idea for the book came after New York State legalized abortion in 1970. The two gynecologists were working at a newly opened abortion clinic, directed by Dr. Schulman, at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx. ''We decided that we'd better write a book about abortion because we had some rather intense on-the-job training,'' Dr. Schulman said.
        Dr. Neubardt, who also delivered thousands of babies in his practice as an obstetrician, continued to write about women's health and sexuality as a monthly columnist for Westchester Women's News, and appeared often on radio and television talk shows.
        Selig Bud Neubardt was born on June 23, 1926, in New York City. He graduated from Columbia College in 1948 and earned his medical degree from the Syracuse College of Medicine in 1952. In World War II, he served in the Army infantry in Europe.
        Dr. Neubardt was an assistant clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. He was a fellow of the American College of Surgeons and sat on the medical board of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic.
        Besides his son Seth, of Greenwich, Conn., he is survived by his wife of 49 years, Saundra; another son, Andrew, of White Plains; a daughter, Amanda Miller of Greenwich; and eight grandchildren.
      