
        Gerard Piel, a science writer and editor who helped revive Scientific American magazine a half-century ago and made it thrive, died Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke he suffered in February, his family said.
        Mr. Piel and associates took a gamble in 1947 to buy the magazine with money borrowed from people he called ''a lot of very lovely guys.'' (They included the Whitney partners and the Rosenwald family.)
        They believed that there were enough intelligent laymen to support a periodical that discussed science in depth. With that, Mr. Piel, the publisher; Dennis Flanagan, the editor; and Donald H. Miller, the general manager, revamped the hoary publication as a timely and authoritative monthly. They insisted, for instance, that more articles be written by people directly engaged in the subject matter.
        Four years and a million dollars in venture capital later, the magazine began to turn a profit. Revived, the magazine, which was established in 1845, covers groundbreaking events in science and technology as they happen. It counts more than 100 Nobel laureates among its contributors.
        Scientific American now publishes 15 foreign-language editions. Its circulation reached one million under Mr. Piel's leadership as publisher. He took the chairmanship of the company in 1984, and in 1986 he oversaw the sale of the magazine to Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck, its current publisher.
        Mr. Piel was a scion of a brewing family from 19th-century Brooklyn. Gottfried Piel and his brother Michael, Gerard's grandfather, started Piel Brothers Brewery in 1883 to supply the clan's biergarten, whose chief cook was Maria, Michael's wife.
        Gerard Piel was born on March 1, 1915, in Woodmere, N.Y., on Long Island. He graduated magna cum laude as a history major from Harvard in 1937, and started as an editorial trainee at Time Inc.
        Family lore has it that one year after college he was named science editor of Life magazine because his boss deemed him qualified by being ''certifiably illiterate in science.''
        ''The idea was that if I could understand what I was writing and publishing, then so could the reader,'' Mr. Piel explained years later. ''I became a science journalist and my education has been continuing ever since.''
        He kept the job at Life for six years. He briefly was assistant to the president of the Henry J. Kaiser Company and associated companies in Oakland, Calif., before preparing for the acquisition and makeover of Scientific American.
        Mr. Piel was the author of several books, most recently ''The Age of Science: What Scientists Learned in the 20th Century'' (Basic Books, 2001). Other titles included ''Science in the Cause of Man'' (Knopf, 1962), ''The Acceleration of History'' (Knopf, 1972) and ''Only One World'' (Freeman, 1992). He was co-editor of ''The World of Rene Dubos: A Collection of His Writings'' (Holt, 1990).
        He was a past president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and led the 1966 citizens' committee that recommended to Mayor John V. Lindsay the establishment of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
        Over the years he was an overseer at Harvard and a trustee at Radcliffe and was on the boards of the American Museum of Natural History and the New York Botanical Garden. Until recently he sat of the boards of Phillips Andover Academy, the Henry J. Kaiser Foundation and the Mayo Clinic.
        Mr. Piel is survived by his wife of 49 years, Eleanor Jackson Piel, a prominent civil rights lawyer; a daughter, Eleanor P. Womack of Santa Monica, Calif.; a son, Jonathan B. Piel of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren. His previous marriage, to the late Mary Tapp Bird, ended in divorce.
      