
        Rudolf Gerold Wunderlich, a leading expert and dealer in American art for a half century, much of that time as president of the Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, died on Sept. 22 in Fountain Valley, Calif. He was 83 and had retired to Laguna Woods, Calif.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Susan Wunderlich, his wife and former partner in the Mongerson-Wunderlich Galleries in Chicago.
        Born in Tarrytown, N.Y., Mr. Wunderlich started in his family's art business at 16 while still in prep school. His grandfather was Hermann Wunderlich, who had first worked for Michael Knoedler, founder of Knoedler & Company, before setting out on his own with what was later renamed the Kennedy Galleries.
        Rudolf Wunderlich became its president after the death of his father in 1951, and he held that position into the 1980's. Under his guidance the gallery became a nationally known dealer in American art. He published The Kennedy Quarterly and advised private collectors and museums across the country.
        Mr. Wunderlich was especially knowledgeable about Western American artists like Frederic Remington and Charles M. Russell. He advised others on distinguishing original Remington bronzes from reproductions and fakes.
        He dealt in American art from the 18th to the 20th centuries, including portraits, landscapes, sporting scenes and marine paintings. He was also an authority on American prints of the 18th and 19th centuries.
        About 20 years ago he sold his interest in the Kennedy Galleries to Lawrence A. Fleischman, a partner since 1966 and father of its current president, Martha Fleischman. Mr. Wunderlich moved to Chicago and was president of Morgenson-Wunderlich there until retiring in 1998.
        He was a founding member of the Art Dealers Association of America and one of the inaugural exhibitors at the Winter Antiques Show, held at the Seventh Regiment Armory in New York since 1955.
        His first marriage, to Eleanor Brandreth Wunderlich, ended in divorce.
        In addition to Susan Wunderlich, his wife of 20 years, Mr. Wunderlich is survived by three sons from his earlier marriage, Gerold M., of Ossining, N.Y., a director of the Gerald Peters Gallery in New York; John, also of Ossining; and Theodore, of Sebastopol, Calif.; a sister, Roberta Chamberlain of Akron, Ohio; a stepson, Tyler Mongerson of Chicago, president of Mongerson Galleries there; two stepdaughters, Tina Smith and Lindsey Mongerson, both of Chicago; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      