
        Gordon Bendersky, a pediatric cardiologist turned medical historian who studied sports injuries and medical plants in ancient Greece and fetal sculptures of the Olmec civilization, died Thursday in Abington, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Elkins Park, Pa.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Bendersky had a distinguished first career at Hahnemann University in Philadelphia. He also had a lifelong interest in art and the history of his profession and most recently pursued it as a visiting scholar in the history department of the University of Pennsylvania.
        Alone or with associates, he ferreted out evidence of healing practices centuries and millennia old. He visited some of the places involved and also scoured museums and books to document his insights into prehistoric medicine.
        One of Dr. Bendersky's inquiries, with Susan C. Ferrence, then a doctoral candidate in art history, was into what apparently was the use of saffron as a medicine about 3,500 years ago. Previously, the earliest use was placed around 1000 B.C., with visual and written evidence of myrtle, the lily and the poppy, among other plants.
        In a paper published this year, the authors base their case on frescoes found on the Aegean island of Thera, depicting a goddess presumably overseeing the milling of spice or perfume. Instead, the paper concluded that the scene showed a drug being made from the saffron flower.
        And, the authors wrote, ''We know the date of the frescoes because a volcanic eruption stopped the clock, much as was the case in Pompeii.''
        His research also cast new light on stone figurines left by the Olmec people, ancient antecedents of Mayans and Aztecs in Mexico.
        Dr. Bendersky established in 1997 that a seven-inch male figure at the Art Museum at Princeton University represented the earliest known anatomically correct image of the human heart.
        In yet another paper, written two years later with Carolyn Tate, an art historian, he identified some Olmec carvings, usually identified as dwarves, as the earliest known naturalistic renderings of the human fetus.
        With evidence supplied by neonatalists, obstetricians and the like, the authors contend that the effigies with their oversize heads and sharply bent knees portray fetuses.
        Gordon Bendersky was born in Boston and graduated from Harvard in 1949. He received his medical degree in 1953 from Hahnemann University Medical College, where he trained in internal medicine and cardiology. He taught at Hahnemann and was on the medical staff of Hahnemann University Hospital.
        Dr. Bendersky is survived by his wife of 48 years, Renee Freedman Bendersky; two daughters, Susan B. Sacks of Newtown Square, Pa., and Eileen Miller of Hurleyville, N.Y.; a brother, Joseph, of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a sister, Freda Saltz of Boca Raton, Fla.; and three grandsons.
      