
        Richard Ellison, an Emmy-winning documentary producer whose best-known work, a 13-part history of the Vietnam War, inspired both critical praise and an impassioned televised rebuttal after it was broadcast on public television in 1983, died on Friday at his home in Kingston, Mass. He was 80.
        The cause was diffuse Lewy body syndrome, a neurological disease, his family said.
        Produced in part by WGBH-TV in Boston, ''Vietnam: A Television History'' was the product of six years of work by Mr. Ellison, its executive producer, and the journalist Stanley Karnow, its principal reporter. Chronicling the war from its roots in Vietnam's struggle against French colonial rule in the 1940's and 50's through the fall of Saigon in 1975, the series combined archival footage with interviews with participants and policy makers on both sides of the conflict.
        The documentary won six National Emmy Awards; Mr. Ellison also received two individual Emmys. Among the program's many other honors were a George Foster Peabody Award, a George Polk Award and an Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Broadcast Journalism Award.
        Reviewing the documentary in The New York Times, John Corry called it ''a landmark in television journalism.'' He added: ''The series is determinedly even-handed. Vietnam produced a war for polemicists of all persuasions, but the series, delicately balanced, tries hard not to reach conclusions.''
        Some conservative groups attacked the program as overly sympathetic to the North Vietnamese. In an unusual move, PBS agreed to televise a two-hour rebuttal to its own series in 1985. The decision prompted public debate about the role of political advocacy in television news programming.
        Half of the two-hour broadcast was a documentary, ''Television's Vietnam: The Real Story,'' narrated by Charlton Heston and produced by Accuracy in Media, a conservative organization that monitors the news media. The other half, produced by PBS, included a panel discussion about Vietnam coverage, and an interview with Mr. Ellison. Reviewing the program in The Times, Mr. Corry wrote that while ''intelligent criticisms are offered,'' it was, over all, ''not a particularly effective rebuttal.''
        Lloyd Richard Ellison was born on Oct. 18, 1923, in Lansing, Mich. He went to sea at 17 and during World War II was an officer in the merchant marine. After studying at City College in New York, he began a 30-year career as a film and television producer. His credits include ''CBS Reports,'' ''Bandwagon'' and ''Look Up and Live'' for CBS; he was also director of current affairs programming for PBS.
        Mr. Ellison's other documentary films include "Choosing Suicide" (1980), a profile of a cancer patient who chose to take her own life, which more than a dozen PBS stations declined to broadcast because of its controversial subject matter.
        Mr. Ellison, whose first three marriages ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Sara Altherr, whom he married in 1981; a brother, James, of Manhattan; a half brother, Raymond, of Lansing; a son from an earlier marriage, Jib, of Healdsburg, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Petra Reitz, of East Bridgewater, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 12, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the award-winning documentary maker Richard Ellison on Saturday misstated the date of his death. It was Oct. 1, not last Friday.
      