
        Ken Caminiti, the National League's most valuable player in 1996 but an admitted steroid user in his playing days and a cocaine user in recent years, died Sunday in the Bronx. He was 41.
        Caminiti's agent and lawyer, Rick Licht, said in an interview that Caminiti collapsed while visiting a friend and died at Lincoln Memorial Hospital. Mr. Licht said a doctor there told him that Caminiti had had a heart attack.
        Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City Medical Examiner's office, said an autopsy was performed yesterday. She said the cause of death could not be determined until tissue and toxicology tests were completed in a week to 10 days. Asked whether drugs were involved, she said, ''We wouldn't know at this point.''
        Appearing in a Houston court last Tuesday, Caminiti admitted to violating probation in a drug case by testing positive for cocaine in September.
        Angel Gonzalez, a clerk at a Manhattan gym, said Caminiti had arrived at his apartment in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx with a friend of Mr. Gonzalez's at about 11 a.m. Sunday. He said that they planned to watch a football game there and that Caminiti was going to help the friend buy a cellphone.
        Mr. Gonzalez said Caminiti was staying at a hotel near Kennedy Airport and had planned to fly to a home he had in Montana. ''He wasn't talkative, and he looked like he was out all night,'' Mr. Gonzalez said.
        Caminiti later collapsed at the apartment and was unconscious when emergency medical technicians arrived, Mr. Gonzalez said.
        Raymond Ortiz, an upstairs neighbor, said he saw Caminiti on Saturday. ''I recognized him and did a double take,'' Mr. Ortiz said.
        Caminiti, a third baseman, played in the major leagues from 1987 through 2001 with the Houston Astros, the San Diego Padres, Houston again, the Texas Rangers and the Atlanta Braves. A switch-hitter, he had a career batting average of .272 with 239 home runs and 983 runs batted in. His best season was in 1996, when he led the Padres to a National League division title while achieving career highs in batting average (.326), homers (40) and R.B.I. (130).
        In 2002, he told Sports Illustrated that he started using anabolic steroids in 1996 to help recover from a shoulder injury and continued with them until he retired. He told the magazine that at least 50 percent of major league players took steroids.
        Steroids are artificial bodybuilding drugs barred by most sports partly because they can cause cancer, and heart, liver and reproductive-system problems. Baseball began testing for steroid use in 2003.
        In 2001, eight days after Caminiti was released by the Braves, he was arrested in Houston and charged with possessing cocaine. In March 2002, he pleaded guilty to that charge and was placed on probation for three years.
        ''This is the largest mistake I've made in my life,'' he said then. ''It doesn't have to be drugs. It doesn't have to be alcohol. That part of my life is over.''
        In February 2003, he failed a drug test, violating the terms of his probation, and he was ordered to enter a drug-treatment center. Last Tuesday, he was in a Houston court, admitting that he had violated his probation again by testing positive for cocaine the month before. His probation officer said Caminiti had failed four drug tests in 2002.
        Caminiti was sentenced to 180 days in jail. But he was given credit for the 189 days he had previously spent in jail and in a drug-treatment facility, and he was released.
        Steve Finley, an outfielder on the Los Angeles Dodgers, played with Caminiti for four years in Houston and for four more in San Diego.
        ''He was a great player,'' Finley told The Associated Press yesterday, ''but he got mixed up in the wrong things, taking drugs.''
        This year, Caminiti was a spring-training instructor for the Padres. Mr. Licht said Caminiti wanted to get back into baseball and perhaps warn young players about the danger of drugs.
        Caminiti, a native of Hanford, Calif., is survived by his daughters, Kendall, Lindsay and Nicole, who live in the Houston area; his father, Lee, and his mother, Yvonne, of San Jose, Calif.; and a brother, Glenn, and a sister, Carrie, both of California. His marriage to his wife, Nancy, ended in divorce.
        Kevin Towers, the Padres' general manager, told The Associated Press that Caminiti ''was one of my favorite all-time players.''
        ''The best way to describe him,'' Towers said, ''is that he was a warrior in every sense of the word. I can't tell you how many times I remember him hobbling into the manager's office, barely able to walk, and saying, 'Put me in the lineup.'''
      