
        Johnny Sturm, a former Yankees first baseman who managed Mickey Mantle in the minor leagues the year before Mantle started his Hall of Fame baseball career, died Friday at his home in St. Louis. He was 88.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, John, said.
        When Lou Gehrig's fabled career as the Yankees' first baseman ended in 1939, he was replaced by Babe Dahlgren. In 1941, Sturm replaced Dahlgren and batted .239 in 124 games, his only major league season. Sturm was the Yankees' leadoff batter during Joe DiMaggio's record 56-game hitting streak.
        Two months after that season ended, Sturm enlisted in the Army Air Forces and spent four years in military service. While he was driving a tractor to clear land for an Army baseball field, his right index finger was mangled and two joints were amputated.
        Sturm, who threw left-handed, returned to the Yankees in 1946 but was sent to the minor leagues after spring training. He became a manager in the Yankees' farm system, and in 1950, he was managing in Joplin, Mo., when the 18-year-old Mantle, who signed with the Yankees out of high school the previous year, was assigned to Sturm's Class C team.
        Mantle, then a shortstop, batted .383, but he made 55 errors. Joplin won the league pennant by 25 games, and the next year Mantle became a Yankees outfielder.
        Sturm's son said his father had told him: ''Mickey Mantle was the most incredible player I had ever seen. He kept hitting line drives off the center-field wall, and I never saw anybody run so fast in my life.''
        Sturm, a native of St. Louis, was later a scout for the Houston Colt .45's, the Cincinnati Reds and the Boston Red Sox.
        In addition to his son, John, of St. Louis, he is survived by two daughters, Mary Noll of St. Louis and Annette D'Angelo of Kansas City, Mo.; seven grandchildren; and a brother, Peter, of St. Louis. Sturm's wife, Florence, died in 1989.
        Correction:  October 16, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Johnny Sturm, a former first baseman and minor league manager for the New York Yankees, misstated his connection to Mickey Mantle. Sturm was the manager of the Yankees' farm team in Joplin, Mo., in 1949 when he learned about Mantle, a semipro player from Oklahoma, and told the Yankees about him. A scout, Tom Greenwade, saw Mantle play, and the Yankees signed Mantle to a contract; he played for their farm teams in Independence, Mo., in 1949 and in Joplin in 1950. Sturm was not Mantle's manager at Joplin; Harry Craft was.
      