
        Joseph T. Zoline, who looked at a withering mining village nestled in the Colorado Rockies and imagined, then built, the elite ski resort of Telluride, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 92.
        His daughter Pamela Zoline said he died after a long illness.
        Telluride, with its charming Victorian architecture and opera house, had a heady past. Butch Cassidy robbed his first bank there; Big Bill Haywood was jailed for organizing workers; Lillian Gish performed, and William Jennings Bryan delivered his famous ''cross of gold'' speech. In 1900, the mineral wealth had given Telluride more millionaires, per capita, than Manhattan.
        By the 1960's, the mines had grown stingy, and the Ghost Town Club of Colorado was bringing regular expeditions to Telluride. But the beauty of the place remained breathtaking: Telluride, at 8,800 feet above sea level, lies in a huge box canyon of the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado, which reach up to 13,000 feet. Waterfalls tumble from the sheer mountain faces. Mr. Zoline, who had owned an Aspen ranch since 1955, showed up in Telluride in 1968.
        The postwar ski industry was shifting into high gear, and he figured that Telluride's natural endowments were just the ticket for a successful investment.
        Several smaller ventures had failed there in the past, but The New York Times quoted Telluride's mayor as saying that Mr. Zoline's was the first truly large venture.
        Ms. Zoline said, ''It meant starting from scratch.'' She said: ''Telluride had one run-down hotel, one restaurant open two nights a week and no bank. It meant doing everything at once.''
        Mr. Zoline hired Emile Allais, a French Olympic skier, to help configure runs and lifts. He teamed up with local people, particularly Billy Mahoney Sr., who had built Telluride's first lift, a rope tow hooked to the rear axle of a vintage jalopy. He worked with ecologists to protect the alpine environment, and with local preservationists to protect the historic town.
        Telluride opened in the winter of 1972-73 with five lifts and a day lodge. By then, Mr. Zoline had taken on the Swiss firm Simonius-Vischer as a partner. Three years later, Mr. Zoline opened the Coonskin Lift on the north side of the mountain, connecting the skiing area directly to the town of Telluride.
        When he began, Mr. Zoline boasted to Telluride's Chamber of Commerce that his resort would be bigger than Vail, according to The New York Times in 2003. But the difficulty of getting to Telluride kept development relatively slow and measured, ultimately allowing residents to control growth better than some other Western ski resorts. Its clientele tended to be more affluent.
        Telluride developed an array of summer arts festivals, including film, chamber music and blue grass, to attract higher-spending visitors.
        In 1978, Mr. Zoline and his Swiss partner sold the ski area to Ron Allred and Jim Wells, both of Colorado. They in turn sold a majority interest to Hideo Morita, who earlier this year sold three-quarters of what had become his sole ownership to Chuck and Chad Horning of Newport Beach, Calif.
        Joseph Taube Zoline was born on Sept. 5, 1912, in Chicago. A dentist's son, he went to local schools and graduated from the University of Chicago and then its law school, where he was editor of the law review.
        After practicing corporate law for Chicago firms, he became involved in businesses that included helping Hilton Hotels develop one of the early credit cards, Carte Blanche. He was chairman and president of MSL Industries, a diversified corporation based in Los Angeles.
        His daughter said Mr. Zoline briefly served as chief executive of Arlington Race Track in Chicago.
        In addition to his daughter Pamela, who lives in Telluride, Mr. Zoline is survived by another daughter, Patricia Zoline of Ashland, Ore.; a son, Thomas, of Telluride and Beverly Hills; and five grandchildren. His wife of 59 years, the former Janice Kahnweiler, died in 1988.
      