
        Bruce Palmer, who played bass guitar for Buffalo Springfield, the influential though short-lived folk-rock band that exemplified what was called the West Coast sound in the 1960's, died on Oct. 1 in Belleville, Ontario. He was 58.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Liese Rugo, a music publicist.
        Buffalo Springfield existed only about two years and had a solitary hit single, ''For What It's Worth,'' in 1967. But subsequent critical acclaim and the commercial success of its alumni earned the group an almost mythical status in pop music history.
        ''Apart from the Byrds, no other American band has had as great an impact on folk-rock and country-rock really, the entire California rock sound, than Buffalo Springfield,'' the Web site of the reference work All Music Guide, allmusic.com, said.
        Indeed, the lyrics of ''For What It's Worth,'' written by Stephen Stills, became emblematic of the era's chasm between generations.
        ''Something's happening here, what it is ain't exactly clear,'' is followed by the chorus, ''Stop, hey, what's that sound, everybody look what's going down.''
        Mr. Palmer did not write music or lyrics, but many considered his forceful, distinctive bass an important part of the group's identity. The other members of the band were Mr. Stills, on guitar and vocals; Neil Young, guitar and vocals; Dewey Martin, drums and vocals; and Richie Furay, guitar and vocals.
        Ms. Rugo said that Mr. Palmer was born on Sept. 9, 1946, in Toronto, although some other sources say he was born in Nova Scotia. His father was a concert pianist, and he picked up a guitar at the age of 10 in a music store. He began playing with rock groups in Toronto, including the Swinging Doors and Jack London and the Sparrows.
        He was next a member of the Mynah Birds, a now-legendary Canadian group whose lead singer was the future funk star Rick James. Mr. Palmer persuaded his friend Mr. Young to join the group, and the Mynah Birds recorded a record for Motown. Their contract was canceled, however, after Mr. James was arrested as a draft dodger.
        Mr. Young and Mr. Palmer set out for California in Mr. Young's 1953 Pontiac hearse, nicknamed Mort, hoping to find Mr. Stills. They arrived on April Fool's Day 1966, and five days later, in one of rock music's dearest legends, they bumped into Mr. Stills and Mr. Furay in a traffic jam on Sunset Boulevard.
        Mr. Martin, an experienced session drummer, was recruited, and Buffalo Springfield, named for a brand of steamroller, was formed.
        ''The whole thing happened at hyper speed, warp drive,'' Mr. Palmer said in an interview with the magazine Goldmine in 1987. By July 1966, they were in Gold Star Studios in Los Angeles working on their first album, ''Buffalo Springfield.'' In 1967, that album was reissued to add ''For What It's Worth,'' and ''Buffalo Springfield Again'' was recorded.
        The group soon began to unravel because of drug indictments and artistic disagreements. Mr. Palmer faced marijuana and immigration charges that forced him out of the band temporarily, and permanently by the time of Buffalo Springfield's third album, ''Last Time Around.'' He was replaced by Jim Messina in 1968, the year the group disbanded.
        Mr. Palmer made a solo instrumental album in 1968, played on several occasions with Mr. Young in the 1980's, and reunited with Mr. Martin to form Buffalo Springfield Revisited.
        Mr. Palmer is survived by his wife, Jill Vanderveen Palmer, and three grown daughters.
      