
        Don Lawrence, a British science fiction illustrator and cartoonist, died on Dec. 29 in a hospital near his home in Jevington, East Sussex, England. He was 75.
        The cause was pneumonia and emphysema, said his wife, Lis.
        Mr. Lawrence was overlooked in his home country, but was celebrated throughout Europe for his richly colored, highly detailed visions of fantastic worlds, flying galleons and voluptuous warrior maidens.
        He was especially popular in the Netherlands and Germany for the graphics he did for ''Storm,'' a 23-volume Dutch novel that has sold more than two million copies in translation worldwide. He was knighted by Holland last year.
        For 11 years starting in the mid-1960's, Mr. Lawrence drew nearly 1,000 pages for ''The Rise and Fall of the Trigan Empire,'' a fantasy by Mike Butterworth about the warrior Trigo on the planet Elekton that appeared mainly in the weekly children's publication Look and Learn.
        Mr. Lawrence was born in London in 1928. He studied figurative art at Borough Polytechnic (now South Bank University) in London and labored at low pay in the British comic-book industry for two decades. His first assignment, in the mid-1950's, was drawing Marvelman, a British knockoff of Captain Marvel, for Mick Gower's Anglo Studios at the rate of one British pound a page.
        Considered the first British superhero, Marvelman was enormously influential on a new wave of British comic-book writers. Mr. Lawrence's other strips included an adaptation of Gerry Anderson's science fiction marionette series ''Thunderbirds Are Go'' for The Daily Mail.
        When his publisher refused to pay royalties for foreign editions of ''Trigan,'' Mr. Lawrence and a writer colleague created ''Storm'' for the Dutch weekly Eppo in 1997. ''Storm'' is distinguished by Mr. Lawrence's realistically detailed scenes of science fiction realms painted in gouache and watercolors. His work was an inspiration for a younger generation of British comic-book artists including Brian Bolland, Dave Gibbons and Chris Weston, who have had a major impact on American comics.
        ''We have chosen the most difficult form of expression that I can think of,'' Mr. Lawrence once said in an interview. ''We have to be the film director, cameraman, set designer. We have to do all the costumes, the buildings and the lighting. In what other job have you got to have all those disciplines?''
        Mr. Lawrence's marriage to Julia Wilson ended in divorce. In addition to his wife Lis, he is survived by two sons and three daughters from his first marriage, and a stepson from his second.
      