
        Ray Boone, an American League All-Star infielder who was the patriarch of the first three-generation family of major leaguers, died Sunday at a hospital in San Diego. Boone, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 81.
        The cause was complications of intestinal surgery he had in May, his wife, Patsy, said.
        Appearing in the major leagues from 1948 to 1960, mostly with the Cleveland Indians and the Detroit Tigers, Ray Boone was a solid hitter with good power, who played shortstop and third base. He was an All-Star in 1954 and 1956 with the Tigers and was the American League's co-leader for runs batted in, with 116, in 1955.
        But he was mostly remembered as the father of Bob Boone, who caught for 19 seasons in the majors and later managed the Kansas City Royals and the Cincinnati Reds, and the grandfather of the major league infielders Bret Boone and Aaron Boone.
        When Bret Boone made his debut on Aug. 19, 1992, starting at second base for the Seattle Mariners against the Orioles in Baltimore, he became the first third-generation player in the majors. His brother, Aaron, made his debut with the Reds in 1997, playing on the same team as Bret, who had been traded to Cincinnati.
        There are two other three-generation baseball families: Gus Bell, his son Buddy and his grandsons David and Mike, and Sam Hairston, his son Jerry and his grandson Jerry Jr. But the Boones were the only three-generation baseball family in which every member was an All-Star.
        ''Some parents would like to see their sons and grandsons go to medical school or law school,'' Ray Boone was quoted as saying by The Commercial Appeal of Memphis in 1995. ''I feel the same way about my son and grandsons being able to do what they want to do.''
        A native of San Diego, Boone grew up idolizing Ted Williams, who preceded him at Hoover High School. He made his major league debut late in the 1948 season as a shortstop with the World Series-champion Cleveland team.
        After being traded to the Tigers in June 1953 and shifting from shortstop to third base, Boone had his best seasons. He hit 26 home runs that year, including four grand slams, the start of four consecutive years in which he hit at least 20 homers.
        Boone was traded to the Chicago White Sox in 1958 and also played for the Kansas City Athletics, the Milwaukee Braves and the Boston Red Sox. He hit 151 homers in his career and had a batting average of .275.
        He spent more than three decades as a Red Sox scout and signed Curt Schilling in 1986. Schilling, as a minor leaguer, was later traded to the Orioles and this season returned to Boston as the team's No. 1 starter.
        In addition to his wife, his son Bob and his grandsons Bret and Aaron, Ray Boone is survived by his son Rodney; his daughter, Terry Strandemo; seven grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        The Boone family was immersed in baseball early on.
        When Ray Boone was with the Indians, his son Bob was hanging around the batting cage in spring training as a 5-year-old. When his father joined the White Sox, Bob took batting practice as an 11-year-old, swinging against the future Hall of Fame pitcher Early Wynn.
        When Bob Boone caught for the Phillies, Bret and Aaron had their own lockers at Veterans Stadium. During batting practice for the 1979 All-Star Game at Seattle's Kingdome, in which Bob was playing, Bret, then 10 years old, and Aaron, 6, caught fly balls behind their backs in the outfield, a trick taught to them by the Phillies reliever Tug McGraw.
        ''Everybody was amazed,'' Bob Boone recalled in an interview with The Cincinnati Post in 2003. ''It was quite a show.''
        As for those days in Philadelphia, Bret Boone once recalled: ''I wanted to go to the ballpark every day. If my dad wouldn't let me, my day was ruined. I just loved it. We used to have myself, my brother, Greg Luzinski's son, Pete Rose's son, Tug McGraw's kids, Steve Carlton's kids. There were quite a few kids hanging around, probably driving the players crazy.''
        On Sunday night, the Red Sox had a moment of silence for Boone at Fenway Park before Game 4 of their playoff series with the Yankees. It came on the first anniversary of a marquee moment for the Boone family -- Aaron Boone's home run against the Red Sox that sent the Yankees to the World Series.
      