
        Dr. Thomas M. Donahue, a pioneering space scientist whose career went from studying Earth's stratosphere with early rockets to probing the atmosphere of Jupiter with spacecraft, died on Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 83.
        The cause was complications after heart surgery he had a month earlier, according to an announcement from the University of Michigan, where Dr. Donahue was a physicist and retired planetary scientist.
        An advocate of using satellites and spacecraft to study Earth and other planets, Dr. Donahue was an experimenter or participating scientist on missions sent to Venus, Jupiter and Saturn, as well as investigations of the Moon and Earth's atmosphere. He also served on numerous committees and panels in Washington that helped guide the science efforts of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        In his early work, Dr. Donahue studied cosmic rays from space and the effects of radiation on elements in the atmosphere of Earth and other planets. He headed the science steering group of the two Pioneer missions to Venus in the early 1970's, and was an experimenter on the Voyager, Galileo and Cassini missions to the outer planets. He also was involved in studies of the destruction of the protective ozone layer in Earth's stratosphere.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983 and served as chairman of the influential Space Science Board of the academy's National Research Council from 1982 to 1988. From 1974 until 1980, he was chairman of the department of atmospheric and oceanic science at the University of Michigan.
        ''Tom Donahue understood the power of atmospheric chemistry for understanding the evolution and the behavior of the planets,'' said Dr. Lennard Fisk, a colleague and chairman of the department Dr. Donahue once headed at Michigan. ''He was the foremost expert on the atmosphere and ionosphere of Venus and the information they provide on this complex and unusual planet.''
        Dr. Donahue was born in Healdton, Okla., and grew up in Kansas City, Mo., where he graduated from Rockhurst College with degrees in classics and physics. He earned a Ph.D. in atomic physics from Johns Hopkins University in 1947 after service in the Army Signal Corps in World War II. He taught and did research in atmospheric and atomic physics at the University of Pittsburgh from 1951 until he went to Michigan in 1974.
        In addition to science, Dr. Donahue studied American, Irish and French history and was fluent in several languages. He also made extensive studies of the Irish history of his family, which was from County Kerry.
        He is survived by his wife, Esther McPherson Donahue, whom he married in 1950; three sons, Brian, of Boston, Kevin, of Berkeley, Calif., and Neil M., of Pittsburgh; six grandchildren; and a brother and a sister.
      