
        Jacques Levy, an educator, a theater director and a lyricist whose Broadway credits include the musical ''Oh! Calcutta,'' died Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in SoHo.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Levy had long been active on Off Broadway stages and in regional theater. On Broadway, he directed the original production of ''Oh! Calcutta'' in 1969 and its revival in 1976, for a total of 7,273 performances.
        The original version of the ribald free-form musical was conceived by Kenneth Tynan as ''elegant erotica'' and, directed by Mr. Levy, ran for 1,314 performances. The revival, to which Mr. Levy added some of his own music and lyrics, lasted for 5,959 performances, closing in 1989 after a run of almost 13 years.
        Mr. Levy directed and Elizabeth Swados wrote the music for the musical comedy ''Doonesbury,'' based on the comic strip, for the 1983-84 season.
        Frank Rich of The New York Times wrote in his review that the director ''engaged young performers who not only look exactly like the members of Mr. Trudeau's Walden Puddle commune but also sound just as we always imagined they would -- even when they sing.''
        Mr. Levy worked with Joseph Chaikin, the director who invigorated the American stage with his experimental Open Theater in the 1960's and early 1970's. He wrote songs recorded by Carly Simon and Crystal Gayle, among others, helped with the words for Bob Dylan's ''Desire'' album and wrote lyrics for ''Fame,'' the musical about students at the High School for the Performing Arts in New York.
        Among the many Off-Broadway plays he directed were Sam Shepard's ''Red Cross'' (1966), Terrence McNally's ''Where Has Tommy Flowers Gone?'' (1971), Jack Gelber's ''Sleep'' (1972), Jean-Claude van Itallie's ''Mystery Play'' (1973) and David Pinner's ''Potsdam Quartet'' (1982).
        Among his more recent productions as a director were ''The Bridge in Scarsdale'' (2002); ''Brecht on Brecht,'' with Jim Niesen as co-director (2000); and ''Exact Change'' (1999). Over the years he also directed productions in Berlin, London and Venice.
        Jacques Levy, a native New Yorker, graduated from City College in 1956 and earned a master's degree at Michigan State University in 1958 and a Ph.D. there in 1961. He started practicing clinical psychology at the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kan., before deciding to work in the theater instead.
        He joined Mr. Chaikin in directing van Itallie's ''America Hurrah'' in 1966. A year later, he staged Bruce Jay Friedman's ''Scuba Duba,'' starring Jerry Orbach.
        He taught directing and playwriting at several universities, including N.Y.U., Columbia and Yale. In 1992 he joined the faculty of Colgate University as a professor in the English department and, at his death, headed its theater program.
        Mr. Levy is survived by his wife of 24 years, Claudia Carr Levy; and a daughter, Maya Jeanne Levy, and a son, Julien, both also of Manhattan.
        Correction:  October 20, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary of the theater director and lyricist Jacques Levy on Oct. 4 referred incompletely to his collaboration on Bob Dylan's album ''Desire.'' Mr. Levy was co-writer, providing lyrics for most of the songs; he did not just help with the words.
      