
        Dr. Steven Z. Miller, director of pediatric emergency medicine at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, and a well-known educator in the movement promoting humanism in medicine, died Oct. 19 in the plane crash near Kirksville, Mo., that killed 13 people. He was 46 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was confirmed by New York-Presbyterian.
        Dr. Miller was traveling to the Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine to conduct a workshop promoting compassionate medical care when he died. He had led more than a dozen such workshops nationally, working on skills like understanding patients' religious beliefs and how that might affect treatment.
        As the director of pediatric medical student education at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital, Dr. Miller won two teaching awards and was selected four times by students for the Outstanding Teacher award.
        ''He was not only teaching them to be good doctors,'' said John M. Driscoll Jr., pediatrician-in-chief of the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital and chairman of pediatrics at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. ''He was teaching them to be compassionate people.''
        Steven Zane Miller was born March 15, 1958, in New York. He received his bachelor's degree from Columbia in 1980 and his medical degree from Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1984.
        He completed his residency at the Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx Municipal Hospital Center and Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. He joined Columbia and New York-Presbyterian in 1993.
        He was the editor of ''Childhood Symptoms,'' a textbook, and the Columbia University Children's Medical Guide, a reference book.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Dodi Meyer, a pediatrician; and three children, Jesse, Maya T. and Nicolas.
        Correction:  October 26, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Steven Z. Miller, a New York pediatrician and medical educator who died in a plane crash in Missouri, omitted some survivors. In addition to his wife and three children, they include his parents, Phillip and Brenda Miller of Rego Park, Queens, and a brother, Barry, of Riverdale, the Bronx.
      