
        Much of the Washington establishment paid its final respects on Saturday at the National Cathedral to Paul H. Nitze, the arms control negotiator and diplomat, who was remembered by his son Peter for his understanding that ''the best of human endeavors represent the art of the possible, not the perfect.''
        Mr. Nitze, who helped negotiate several arms control treaties with the Soviet Union and helped shape American national security policy throughout the cold war, died Tuesday at the age of 97.
        In a sign of the breadth and longevity of his career -- he served under presidents from Roosevelt to Reagan -- the mourners included people who have held jobs he once held, including deputy secretary of defense and secretary of the Navy.
        Although Mr. Nitze was by and large a Democrat, his funeral drew a bipartisan gathering. Seated in the first pew were Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary. Among the ushers was R. James Woolsey, a longtime acolyte of Mr. Nitze's and a former director of central intelligence. Among the mourners were diplomats and ambassadors from several countries.
        Mr. Nitze was part of a group of tough-minded intellectuals who, in the phrase of Dean Acheson, onetime secretary of state, were ''present at the creation'' of the post-war world. But as C. Boyden Gray, the former White House counsel, said in the crisp bright air outside the cathedral after the service, Mr. Nitze was "the last'' of that generation.
        ''Who knows who's going to be the next Paul Nitze?'' Mr. Gray asked. ''There isn't anybody right at the moment who really represents for our generation what he did for his.''
        Mr. Nitze's coffin was borne through the cathedral's soaring nave by eight crewmembers of the U.S.S. Paul H. Nitze, a Navy guided-missile destroyer that was only the eighth warship named for a living person.
        Although his work involved weighty matters of state, Mr. Nitze was also active on the Georgetown social scene.
        In his tribute, Peter Nitze recalled a man who loved to dance and play the piano, ''eyes partly closed, tongue between his teeth, as he tried to squeeze the ultimate emotive content'' from Bach or Schubert. The service featured a trio that sang from ''The Magic Flute.''
        Mr. Nitze also said that his father had ''considered himself the luckiest of men to have been given the opportunity to wrestle with great problems, the resources and skills to make a difference, and the temperament to enjoy the struggle.''
        In a veiled reference to current American foreign policy and to his father's reputation as a rigorous thinker, Mr. Nitze cited a hymn by G.K. Chesterton as ''a text'' for his father's life. The hymn asks for deliverance ''from all that terror teaches, from lies of tongue and pen, from all the easy speeches that comfort cruel men.''
        Friends of the family said that Mr. Nitze intended the quotation as a rebuke of what his father might have perceived as the failure of the Bush administration to think through the consequences of its policies, particularly in Iraq.
        In her homily, the Right Rev. Jane Holmes Dixon, the retired bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington, who officiated, said: ''Some here today may have agreed with his strategic thinking and some may have disagreed. But he was never afraid to voice his thoughts and he was willing to reconsider his positions and change his mind.''
        She also spoke of Mr. Nitze's humanitarian work. ''Feeding the hungry in Europe when war had left its devastation,'' she said, ''he helped devise a plan so that rebuilding and reclaiming of dignity of the people was possible.''
        When Mr. Nitze died, all the ships in the American fleet lowered their flags to half-mast. The flags will remain lowered until his burial on Sunday at his farm in Maryland.
      