
        Alexander Kouzmanoff, an architect and professor who designed the award-winning underground annex of the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 89.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his son Jan said.
        While Mr. Kouzmanoff's design experience included embassies, corporate headquarters and housing in the Middle East, the bulk of his work is on college campuses.
        The library annex at Columbia, created in 1977 while he was a professor there, is a two-story building with skylights and an asymmetrical layout of lounges, classrooms and reading rooms 30 feet below ground.
        ''The new building's virtues are in the architect's skillful arrangements and uses of space, rather than in any claims to high style,'' Ada Louise Huxtable wrote in The New York Times about the annex. ''These are not showy skills, but the results are no less outstanding.''
        The design won the Albert S. Bard Award from the City Club of New York and an award of excellence from the New York State Association of Architects.
        Alexander Kouzmanoff Associates also designed several buildings for the State University of New York system, including libraries and recreation centers on campuses in Old Westbury, Purchase and Stony Brook.
        The former chairman of architecture at Columbia's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, he was named a fellow of the American Institute of Architects in 1977.
        Alexander Kouzmanoff was born on April 26, 1915, in Chicago and was raised on a farm in Bensenville, Ill. He attended architecture school at the University of Illinois, receiving a bachelor's degree in 1939 and a master's degree in 1949. During World War II he served with a military intelligence unit.
        From 1947 to 1952 he worked for Harrison & Abramowitz and contributed to the design of the United Nations, the Los Angeles Opera and United States Embassies in Havana and Rio de Janeiro.
        He worked as a consultant from 1952 to 1966, planning office towers for I.B.M. and houses in Tehran, Baghdad and San Juan, P.R., among other projects.
        He began teaching at Columbia in 1952, became a tenured professor in 1957 and was appointed chairman of the architecture division of the graduate school in 1971.
        Alexander Kouzmanoff Associates, which he started in 1967, was reorganized in 1992 as Kouzmanoff Bainton Architects and is now led by his son Jan.
        Mr. Kouzmanoff is also survived by his wife, Lillian; another son, Alan, of Manhattan; and two granddaughters.
        Correction:  October 27, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Monday about Alexander Kouzmanoff, who designed the underground annex of the architectural library at Columbia University, misspelled part of the name of a firm for which he worked early in his career. It was Harrison & Abramovitz, not Abramowitz.
      