
        Greg Shaw, a rock-music enthusiast, journalist and record label proprietor who was a major force in the spread of underground music and fanzine publishing since the mid-1960's, died on Oct. 19 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 55.
        The cause was heart failure, said Suzy Shaw, his former wife and a partner in his record label, Bomp.
        A passionate historian, connoisseur and promoter of rough-hewn rock 'n' roll from the earliest days of garage rock and punk, Mr. Shaw founded and operated a series of magazines and record labels that had limited sales but much influence. His best known enterprise is Bomp, which began as a five-page mimeograph in January 1970 and grew into a thick fanzine with illustrious correspondents, and then became a label releasing more than 250 albums and singles since 1974 and still in operation, although the magazine closed in the late 1970's.
        Mr. Shaw built his recording and publishing business around his tastes. He championed new, innovative groups -- including Devo, the Flamin' Groovies, the Germs and the Modern Lovers. Bomp magazine regularly featured detailed histories of regional, nearly forgotten garage-rock bands and music scenes as far away as Sweden.
        His good-humored, homemade approach to magazine publishing served as a model for the fanzine boom of the 1970's and 80's, and many of the best-known music zines of the period, like Kicks, Jamz and the Big Takeover, followed Bomp's impassioned amateurism and detailed local reporting.
        Born in San Francisco, Mr. Shaw started his publishing career as a teenager with Entmoot, a fanzine devoted to J.R.R. Tolkien. In 1966 he founded Mojo-Navigator Rock 'n' Roll News, which is often cited as a precursor to Rolling Stone. Mojo-Navigator soon closed, but it established Mr. Shaw as a writer and entrepreneur.
        While publishing his own fanzines, he contributed to Rolling Stone, Creem, Fusion and others.
        Bomp was founded as Duke of Earl, with a plan to use a different song for the title of each issue, though the name Who Put the Bomp -- eventually elided into its bare, percussive onomatopoeia -- stuck with it from No. 2.
        Mr. Shaw often invited well-known journalists to explore their own obsessions as fans. Early issues included a long tribute to the Troggs by Lester Bangs and a study of the Crickets by Greil Marcus.
        In the early 70's Mr. Shaw worked at the United Artists label, where he was in charge of the press department and published another magazine, Phonograph Record Magazine, or P.R.M., which was owned by United Artists and was distributed free and had a circulation of 200,000, according to Bomp Records.
        Preferring to see himself as ''a developer of scenes'' rather than a businessman, he once said of his method, ''I don't really look for isolated bands. I look for a movement that I think is going in the right direction and then I put my energy behind it.''
        In recent years Mr. Shaw worked closely with new garage-rock groups like the Warlocks and the Brian Jonestown Massacre.
        Besides Suzy Shaw, who is married to Patrick Boissel, another partner in the Bomp family of labels that includes Alive and Total Energy, Mr. Shaw is survived by his wife, Phoebe, and a son, Tristan, both of Los Angeles; and a brother, Robert, of Modesto, Calif.
        Suzy Shaw said on Monday that the Bomp label would continue, and that before he died Mr. Shaw signed several new bands.
      