
        Joseph Dorsey Jr., an African-American prizefighter whose suit challenging a Louisiana ban on integrated sports was upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1959, died Oct. 20 in New Orleans, where he lived. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Evelyn, said.
        When Mr. Dorsey brought his suit he was a little-known light heavyweight. But his case formed a link in the growing chain of legal challenges that by the 1950's had begun to erode Jim Crow laws in the South, paving the way for the sweeping reforms of the 1960's and afterward.
        The Louisiana law, passed in 1956, banned ''dancing, social functions, entertainments, athletic training, games, sports or contests and other such activities involving personal and social contacts, in which the participants or contestants are members of the white and Negro races.''
        Unable to schedule bouts with white opponents, black boxers had limited professional prospects. Encouraged by a Texas court's ruling overturning a similar ban in 1954, Mr. Dorsey sued the state athletic commission, which regulated boxing in Louisiana.
        His lawyers argued that the ban prevented him from contending for a championship. Mr. Dorsey, who earned $600 a year, maintained that it cost him $10,000 annually in purses, The Louisiana Weekly reported in 1958.
        In November 1958, a three-judge federal court in New Orleans found both the Louisiana law and the athletic commission's own rule against interracial bouts unconstitutional. Writing the opinion, one of his earliest on a civil-rights matter, Judge John Minor Wisdom of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held that the Louisiana law was ''unconstitutional on its face in that separation of Negroes and whites based solely on their being Negroes and whites is a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,'' and that segregated boxing matches were no exception.
        (In 1962, Judge Wisdom would write the opinion that allowed James Meredith to attend the University of Mississippi.)
        Louisiana appealed the ruling, which was upheld by the Supreme Court in May 1959. The decision officially ended segregated athletic competition in the state, although it did not extend to the seating at sporting events, which remained segregated.
        Joseph Dorsey Jr. was born July 16, 1935, in New Orleans. He began fighting in 1951, at 16, and married his wife, the former Evelyn Watson, the same year. He retired from the ring in 1966 with a career record of 29-6, his daughter, Dorinda, said. He worked briefly as a boxing trainer and for many years afterward was a longshoreman.
        Besides his wife and daughter, both of New Orleans, Mr. Dorsey is survived by four sons: Mervin, Steven and Donaven, all of New Orleans, and Dwight, of Marrero, La.; nine grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren. Another son, Gregory, died in 1997.
      