
        Bobby Avila, the American League batting champion in 1954 when he played for the pennant-winning Cleveland Indians, and one of the first prominent Latin major leaguers in the decade after World War II, died Tuesday in Veracruz, Mexico. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, the Indians said.
        Avila, a native of Veracruz, became the first Latin player to win a major league batting title when he hit .341 for the Indians team that won a league-record 111 games. He did it despite a broken thumb incurred in early June when the Yankees' Hank Bauer slid into him.
        In 1954, there were only a few Latin players in the majors in addition to Avila, most notably the Cuban outfielder Minnie Minoso of the Chicago White Sox, the runner-up for the batting crown; Chico Carrasquel of Venezuela, the White Sox' shortstop; and Ruben Gomez of Puerto Rico, the New York Giants' pitcher.
        Three decades before Fernando Valenzuela enthralled his Mexican countrymen pitching for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Avila buoyed a following for American baseball among Mexicans.
        During the 1954 World Series, in which the Giants swept the Indians, an official of the Mexican Embassy in Washington presented Avila with a silver bat, a gift from a Mexican sports publication. A bat he used that season was sent to Mexico's baseball hall of fame in Monterrey.
        Avila had a second career in politics, serving as a member of the Mexican national legislature and as the mayor of Veracruz.
        ''Baseball helped me in a lot of ways with politics,'' Avila told Rich Westcott in ''Splendor on the Diamond.''
        ''When you live with people so closely like you do in baseball, you learn how to deal with people.''
        Avila made his major league debut with Cleveland in 1949 and two years later took over as the regular second baseman. He became a smooth fielder, a three-time All-Star and batted .300 three times.
        Avila, the last Indians player to win a batting title, played 10 seasons for Cleveland, then appeared with the Baltimore Orioles, the Boston Red Sox and the Milwaukee Braves in 1959 before retiring with a career batting average of .281.
        The announcement of his death did not list survivors.
        In the interview for ''Splendor on the Diamond,'' Avila recounted his marquee season of 1954 and told how the thumb injury could not stop him.
        ''I started to hit well early, and once you're hitting well you build confidence,'' he said. ''I felt like I could hit anybody.''
      