
        George Silk, a longtime Life magazine photographer known for images that captured both the intimate drama of war and the raw dynamism of sport, died on Saturday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Silk, who worked for Life from 1943 until it ceased publication in 1972, began his career as a combat photographer in World War II, slogging alongside ordinary soldiers in the North African, European and Pacific theaters.
        ''He wasn't an operator about the war,'' said John Loengard, a former picture editor at Life and the author of ''Life Photographers: What They Saw'' (Bullfinch/Little, Brown, 1998). ''Capa was an operator. Bourke-White was an operator. They saw the big picture and made it 'their war.' And George just doggedly wanted to be there and conquer his fears and show people what it was like.''
        After the war, Mr. Silk became a specialist in outdoor sports photography, developing techniques that allowed him to snatch images from previously impossible vantage points -- the surface of a ski, the end of a surfboard.
        George Silk was born Nov. 17, 1916, in Levin, New Zealand. An amateur photographer, he went to work in a camera shop at 16. When the war began, in 1939, he was hired as a combat photographer for the Australian Ministry of Information, assigned to follow Australian troops through North Africa, Greece and New Guinea.
        In Libya with the Desert Rats of Tobruk, Mr. Silk was captured by Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's forces. He escaped 10 days later. In New Guinea, he took what is probably his most famous photograph, in December 1942. The photo shows a blinded Australian soldier, barefoot, eyes bandaged, being led through the remote countryside by a traditionally clad tribesman. The image got Mr. Silk hired at Life the next year.
        For Life, Mr. Silk photographed Allied forces in Europe and, at the end of the war, he commandeered a B-29 to take aerial photos of a devastated Japan. In 1946, he shot a photo essay on famine in China's Hunan Province.
        For the rest of his career, Mr. Silk worked primarily as a sports photographer, drawing on the passion for the outdoors acquired as a boy in New Zealand.
        Mr. Silk was fascinated by motion, and sought innovative ways to snare its rush in a still photograph. It was this desire that caused him sometimes to separate himself from his camera, for example, hooking it up to a cable and placing it in a normally inaccessible spot, like the center of a football field just before kickoff. For other images, Mr. Silk adapted a racetrack's photo-finish camera to catch the fluid blur of an athlete in motion. One notable picture, taken at the 1960 Olympic trials in Palo Alto, Calif., shows an athlete who appears to be stretched widthwise, attenuated to unnatural dimensions. Motion, Mr. Silk found, lay in the distortion.
        Mr. Silk is survived by his wife, the former Margery Gray Schieber; a brother, Ivan, of Bargara, Australia; a son, Stuart, of Seattle; two daughters, Georgiana, of Weston, Conn., and Shelley Silk Wehrly of Old Saybrook, Conn.; and eight grandchildren.
        In Mr. Loengard's book, Mr. Silk tried to characterize his aesthetic sensibility. ''I left school when I was 14,'' he said. ''I had no knowledge of the classics or how painters used light and things like that. Maybe it was already in me.''
      