
        Lester Lanin, who, from the White House to Buckingham Palace, from the Plaza Hotel to the grand ballrooms of the Vanderbilts and the Rockefellers, epitomized a rarefied and perhaps fading species -- the society bandleader -- died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97.
        His spokeswoman, Betty Shulman, announced his death.
        Mr. Lanin brought smooth tones, swift changes and a casually elegant style to a continuous stream of dance music, from Dixieland to swing to very, very tasteful rock 'n' roll. He supplied danceable happiness to several generations of the richest and most beautiful people on earth, at events ranging from Queen Elizabeth's 60th birthday party to the wedding of Christie Brinkley and Billy Joel to the private parties of the duPonts, Chryslers and Mellons.
        He made music for Grace Kelly's engagement party, and at the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer. He wrote ''My Lady Love'' in honor of their marriage. The kings of Norway, Spain, Greece, Denmark and Sweden hired him.
        He played every presidential inauguration since Eisenhower's, except two. Jimmy Carter thought he was too expensive, and George W. Bush didn't invite him. (Ms. Shulman said he may have been disappointed that Mr. Bush didn't ask, particularly since he had long been a favorite of Mr. Bush's father and grandfather.)
        His fast, two-beat dance tempo -- what is called the businessman's bounce -- became a standard by which society bands are measured. He and his bands (he sometimes had more than a dozen on the road at once) by 1992 had played 20,000 wedding receptions, 7,500 parties and 4,500 proms.
        Mothers would book him for coming-out parties as soon as their daughters were born. His ''Pink Petal Waltz,'' which he wrote for the New York Junior League in 1948, was a time-honored fixture at debutante balls.
        Mr. Lanin, along with bandleaders like Ben Cutler, Meyer Davis and Bill Harrington, provided the musical accompaniment for high society as it glided from fox trots to cha-chas to the frug and beyond.
        At the time of his death, he had only two bands on the circuit, and he himself had put down his baton three years ago. But the residual love and steady if diminished demand for music that made some feel like they were bouncing on clouds seemed truly endless.
        ''For generations of the rich and famous, a society party isn't a society party unless Lanin is there with his back to the tuxedoed crowd,'' USA Today said in 1992.
        Inducted into the Big Band Hall of Fame in Palm Beach, Fla., in 1993, Mr. Lanin built a legacy that The New York Times that year called ''an elaborate construct built from scratch each night.'' The Times said Mr. Lanin claimed to invent the concept of playing continuous music at a party, and he is legendary for never leaving the bandstand during a dance.
        (President John F. Kennedy could not help asking Mr. Lanin when he went to the bathroom, according to many reports, all of which seem to neglect to give the answer.)
        Mr. Lanin was famous for giving away multicolored cotton hats, 50,000 a year, with ''Lester Lanin'' emblazoned in script behind the brim. He liked to say he was in ''the happiness business.''
        ''Serve the public!'' he said in an interview with The Times in 1987. ''Whoever you play for, try and make sure you were part and parcel of something happy, so if the woman whose party it was sees you on the street 15 years from now, she'll say, 'Lester, you made my party.'''
        Nathaniel Lester Lanin was born in Philadelphia on Aug. 26, 1907, the youngest of 10 boys. His grandfather was a Philadelphia bandleader who traveled to jobs in a horse-drawn carriage. His father, Benjamin Lanin, was a bandleader, and so were at least six of his brothers. Brother Sam, the most famous in his day, was called the Toscanini of the dance orchestra.
        Lester began playing piano and drums at 5, and first wanted to be a lawyer. He dropped out of school at 15 to play with his brothers' bands and book musicians for them and himself. Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey, Louis Armstrong and Doc Severinsen were among those he employed.
        One of his first jobs as a leader in his own right was the Boca Raton Club in Florida. His first big break in New York came in 1930, when he played at Barbara Hutton's coming-out party. Things quickly snowballed.
        ''You play one day, and it's like a mustard seed -- it grows,'' he said to The Times in 1995. ''Someone says, 'I heard you play at such and such a party,' then someone else says it, and before you know it, you're playing lots of parties.''
        Mr. Lanin was a tiny man who demanded that his musicians neither drink nor use drugs. He never addressed clients by their first names. It was ''Mr. Rockefeller'' or ''Your Highness."
        He said he took cues from the dancers, and adjusted his music accordingly.
        ''I watch their feet,'' he said in an interview with The Christian Science Monitor in 1980. ''If they're out of meter, something's wrong.''
        Mr. Lanin once loved a very young dancer named Dottie Littlefield, who died tragically at 23, he said in an interview with the London Sunday Mail in 1985. Her favorite song was ''Night and Day.'' He started every evening with that song for 30 years.
        He was married once, to an actress and former Miss Texas, but he told The Times that the marriage fell apart because she ''spent more time on the road than I did.'' He left no immediate survivors.
        Mr. Lanin made at least three dozen records, including one of Christmas carols he spiced up with his trademark lively tempo. The album cover featured a youthful Lester Lanin wearing a Santa suit and a demure woman peaking over his shoulder.
        An oft-told story, repeated in Forbes magazine in 1987 and elsewhere, related the night Mr. Lanin was playing a debutante ball attended by Charles Tandy, the founder of the Tandy Corporation. The businessman did not want the evening to end, so he kept pressing large wads of cash into the bandleader's palm each hour to keep the music going.
        The music finally stopped when Mr. Tandy collapsed on the dance floor. He died the next day.
      