
        Rambling Rudy Phillips, who spent his teenage years hopping freight trains to everywhere and nowhere and lived to become one of America's last and best-known Depression-era hobos, died on Jan. 9 in Harrisburg, Ill.
        He was 92 when he caught ''the westbound to heaven,'' in the time-honored hobo saying, his son Rudy said. He lived in a nursing home in Eldorado, Ill.
        In 1986, Mr. Phillips was crowned King of the Hobos at the National Hobo Convention in Britt, Iowa, an event that began in 1900 when a group of hobos from Chicago who called themselves Tourists Union No. 63 began convening there.
        Since 1933, the Britt Chamber of Commerce has sponsored what became an almost annual event as an allure to tourists. Rambling Rudy, like 44 kings before him and 17 after, was crowned with an empty coffee can.
        ''It was a great life,'' Mr. Phillips told the crowd in a speech that told of his confinement in 27 jails as he traveled the rails in 48 states for seven years, beginning when he was 14. ''I'd do it all over again.''
        Mr. Phillips seems to have convinced many that he was the last of the Depression-era hobos, but that was probably something of a stretch. When a third of America was out of work, historians have estimated, about four million people crisscrossed the country on freight trains in search of food, work or adventure. Some 250,000 of them were teenagers, a number of whom are undoubtedly still alive.
        When Lexy Lovell and Michael Uys started making their 1997 documentary film, ''Riding the Rails,'' they solicited responses from the former ''road kids,'' and said they received 3,000 answers from across the United States.
        But Mr. Phillips sought and received exceptional attention for his long-ago exploits by maintaining a free hobo museum in a shed in the backyard of his home in Shawneetown, Ill., and by making speeches and giving interviews. He was good at telling stories, for example his account of arriving at one of the country's largest hobo encampments, or jungles.
        ''I got there about sundown, half-starved, and, before my eyes on the American River, I could see thousands of campfires,'' he said in an interview with The Evansville Courier and Press in 1999. ''I went to the nearest hobo jungle and smelled something cooking.''
        In his later life, he passed out cards defining a hobo as a man who travels to work; a tramp as a man who travels and won't work, and a bum as a man who won't work. Those are definitions that most hobos accept, but the derivation of the word hobo is murkier. Many etymologists trace it back to the days after the Civil War when traveling men carried hoes with them, and hence were called ''hoe boys.''
        What is clear is that the romance of jumping freights digs deep into the American psyche, a rolling romance nourished by a number of writers, including Mark Twain, Zane Grey and John Steinbeck, who called hobos ''the last free men.''
        Rudolph W. Phillips was born in East Prairie, Mo., on Aug. 28, 1911, and had early memories of his mother giving meals to hobos.
        In 1925, when he was 14, Rudy decided on the first day of eighth grade that he had had enough of school. He tried working in a mill, but the job lasted only half a day when he became sick from chewing tobacco. He told his parents he was going to St. Louis to look for work.
        He first hitchhiked, whizzing through St. Louis, but soon came to prefer trains. His father wrote a note, either to keep him out of jail or make sure he was not sent home.
        ''He is not running away,'' the note said. ''He is just seeing the world.''
        Rudy saw plenty. He learned to drink coffee from rusty lard cans and did jobs from picking fruit to ''pearl-diving,'' the hobos' term for washing dishes. He listened to the wail of a harmonica in a swaying boxcar. He ran from ''bulls,'' as the dreaded railroad detectives were known; carried a Hoover blanket, or newspaper, in his back pocket; and, all things considered, spent less time in jail than he might have.
        ''I had a smooth line of talk,'' he said in an interview with The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1989, ''and the police said I had an honest face.''
        Mr. Phillips left the road in 1932 and set up a sandwich stand that became Rudy's Barbecue. He operated it until his retirement in 1987. He was married seven times, experiences he described to The Post-Dispatch as shipwrecks on the Sea of Matrimony.
        ''He once told me that he went to the bank in Shawneetown and told the banker he needed $4,000 to pay off wife No. 3, divorce wife No. 4 and marry wife No. 5,'' his son said.
        He was married to his last wife, Hazel, for more than 30 years, until her recent death. Besides his son Rudy, who lives in Harrisburg, Mr. Phillips is survived by four other sons, Glenn of Shawneetown; Rudy Joe, of Rudement, Ill., Ed, of Harrisburg, and Bruce, of Fairdealing, Mo., as well as five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        For all his clowning with the old-time hobos in Britt, Rambling Rudy did not sugarcoat his memories.
        ''For every mile of beautiful scenery and warm sunshine, there are hundreds of miles of cold, dark nights, no food and no one to care whether I live or die,'' he wrote in his 1988 book, ''Hobo King.''
      