
        Elliot Bredhoff, a leading Washington labor lawyer who helped define the role of federal courts in labor arbitration, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 83.
        The cause was pulmonary complications related to a heart valve replacement, his law firm, Bredhoff & Kaiser, announced.
        The firm was founded by Arthur J. Goldberg, who later became a Supreme Court justice, to provide unions with the same type of high-powered representation obtained by corporations.
        While at the firm, Mr. Bredhoff also served as assistant general counsel of the Congress of Industrial Organizations and the United Steelworkers of America. He ultimately became special counsel to the steelworkers. For nearly 30 years, he was general counsel to the Industrial Union Department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        George Cohen, a partner in the firm, said Mr. Bredhoff was known for his cool, persevering style as a negotiator; his private advice to top union leaders, up to and including John J. Sweeney, the current president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; and his gregarious style, as he held court at such Washington bastions as Duke Zeibert's restaurant, which is defunct.
        Although Mr. Bredhoff was not generally a litigator, his arguments to the Supreme Court in 1960 in a group of cases known as the Steelworkers Trilogy helped determine the approach federal courts would take toward arbitration. The decision to require courts to defer to arbitrated agreements in most cases was first opposed by management, Mr. Cohen said, but later came to be valued by both management and labor because it worked.
        Mr. Bredhoff was born in Manhattan on July 31, 1921. He attended the City College of New York and Yale Law School, where he edited the law review. He was a communications officer in the Army Air Forces in World War II, attaining the rank of first lieutenant.
        Mr. Bredhoff is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Louise Harkavy; his son, Robert, of Bethesda, Md.; his daughter, Nancy, of Manhattan; and three grandsons. A second son, Michael, died in 1983.
      