
        John R. LaMontagne, deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who helped organize efforts to develop vaccines for many diseases, died on Tuesday in Mexico City. He was 61.
        Greg Folkers, a spokesman for the institute, which is part of the National Institutes of Health, said Dr. LaMontagne (pronounced la-mon-TANE), collapsed while standing in line at the Mexico City airport. He said the cause has not been determined.
        Dr. LaMontagne started out as a research scientist, then became an administrator riding herd on scientists in more than 100 countries working to find and apply cures for many diseases. His contributions included helping to develop AIDS medicines and a new whooping cough vaccine and helping to organize a worldwide initiative to quell malaria. He oversaw his institute's $4 billion budget, which has been greatly increased as it devotes more attention to bioterrorism.
        In the mid-1970's, he organized and managed clinical trials of vaccine for swine flu. In 1992, he led an interagency effort to cope with new emerging diseases, as well as old ones beginning to come back.
        In 1998, he helped to develop a strategic plan for new vaccines against childhood diarrhea and pneumonia that could save 12 million children a year.
        Earlier this year, he announced a new therapy for AIDS using drugs that people could administer to themselves. In the next issue of The New England Journal of Medicine, he and Anthony S. Fauci, director of his institute, discuss a method to stretch flu vaccine among more people.
        John Ring LaMontagne was born in Mexico City on Jan. 1, 1943. he earned his Ph.D. from Tulane University in 1971 and came to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in 1976 as the influenza program officer. He became the program officer for the viral vaccines program in 1983, and the influenza and viral respiratory diseases program officer the next year.
        He was appointed deputy director in 1998, after serving in posts that included director of the institute's AIDS program. He played a central role in organizing the Multilateral Initiative on Malaria, which combines research and public health efforts in many countries.
        In recent years, he had worked to increase understanding of biological agents that could be used as weapons by developing a strategic plan for his institute to follow. He also served on interagency panels on weapons of mass destruction.
        Dr. LaMontagne is survived by his wife, the former Mary Elaine Elliott.
      