
        Harry Fleischman, a former officer of the American Socialist Party and a biographer of Norman Thomas, the six-time Socialist candidate for president, died Monday at his son's home in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in West Caldwell, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, his son, Peter, said.
        National secretary of the Socialist Party U.S.A. from 1942 to 1950, Mr. Fleischman was Thomas's campaign manager in 1944 and 1948. (Thomas ran in every presidential election between 1928 and 1948.)
        Mr. Fleischman's book ''Norman Thomas: A Biography'' was published by W.W. Norton in 1964. Reviewing the book in The Saturday Review, Upton Sinclair wrote, ''Whatever may be your ideas about social justice, you will understand better the country and the time in which you live if you read this story.''
        One of Mr. Fleischman's other books is ''Let's Be Human'' (Oceana, 1960), a collection of his syndicated columns on human relations and civil rights.
        Mr. Fleischman spent much of his professional life trying to smooth the sometimes rocky terrain where issues of labor and race intersect. For a quarter-century until just before his death, he was chairman of the Workers Defense League, a labor-rights organization in New York. He was the director of the American Jewish Committee's National Labor Service from 1953 to 1979 and a former labor editor at the Voice of America.
        Harry Fleischman was born in the Bronx on Oct. 3, 1914. Involved with the Socialist Party and the labor movement from the time he was a teenager, he was fired from his first job, in a factory that made wire clothes hangers, for attempting to organize a union. He did better in his next job, in a window-blind factory: there, he was able to organize a strike. An ardent anti-Communist, he wrote several articles during the McCarthy era that stressed the importance of maintaining civil liberties, Mr. Bloom said.
        Mr. Fleischman married the former Natalie Wiencek in 1937; she died in 1989. Besides his son, he is survived by his second wife, Ethel Kahn; two other children from his first marriage, Martha Mordin of Front Royal, Va., and Maria Fiene-Lamanna of New Port Richey, Fla.; three stepchildren: Ed Kahn of Kent, N.Y., Paul Kahn of Manhattan and Elissa Kahn-Halpern of Basking Ridge, N.J.; nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 9, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Harry Fleischman, a former officer of the American Socialist Party and a biographer of Norman Thomas, omitted the given name and title of the associate who said Mr. Fleischman wrote several articles during the McCarthy era that stressed the importance of maintaining civil liberties. He was Jon Bloom, executive director of the Workers Defense League.
      