
        Benjamin Wm. Mehlman, the famously stern upholder of the famously fussy bylaws of Ocean Beach, the Fire Island community nicknamed ''The Land of No,'' died on Oct. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94.
        His death was announced by his family.
        In Ocean Beach, the accused appeared before Judge Mehlman for such offenses as eating in public, illegally beaching a raft and failing to post numbers on one's house.
        He enforced the rules with straight-faced admonition, and his courtroom sessions often drew an audience.
        ''It's considered the best show in town on Saturday mornings,'' he told The New York Times in 1993, when he retired at the age of 82 after 35 years as village justice.
        In 1977, he presided over the much-publicized case of a young man charged with eating a chocolate-chip cookie in public, while his friend stood accused of gobbling up a crumb cake.
        He dismissed the charges on the ground that the police were enforcing the eating laws inconsistently, issuing citations for cookie-eaters but letting ice-cream lickers run free.
        On another occasion, Judge Mehlman fined the comedian Mel Brooks $2 for leaving his garbage can out.
        ''I threw myself on the mercy of the court," Mr. Brooks said, ''and there was no mercy.''
        Judge Mehlman, who had a law degree from Columbia, had a corporate practice in Manhattan for six decades.
        He was also a leader of the Reconstructionist movement, a branch of Judaism that encourages a continual re-examination of the religion's basic tenets for the modern age. He was a founder and chairman of the board of governors of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College and a founder and president of the Jewish Reconstructionist Federation, an association of about 100 Reconstructionist synagogues in North America.
        He was a former president of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, in Manhattan, which was the first Reconstructionist Synagogue, and a founder and board member of the West End Synagogue, also in Manhattan.
        Benjamin William Mehlman was born Aug. 6, 1910, in Brooklyn. He received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1931 and his law degree in 1934.
        He was a trustee of the Ocean Beach Historical Society and an honorary trustee of the Kaufman Center in Manhattan.
        He also served as chairman of the board of trustees of the Fire Island Synagogue.
        His wife of 50 years, Evelyn R. Mehlman, died in 1989. He is survived by three daughters, Lisa Robinson, Deane Zimmerman and Irna Gadd, all of Manhattan; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      