
        Charles F. Kennedy, an Iowan who gravitated to New York, where he became a familiar presence in Central Park as an amateur naturalist, died on Oct. 20 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from lymphoma, said his brother, Larry.
        In 2002, Mr. Kennedy was featured in an award-winning documentary, ''Pale Male,'' about a red-tailed hawk of the same name who gained fame for nesting on the ledge of an apartment building overlooking Central Park. Tall and broad-shouldered, with long gray hair tied in a ponytail, Mr. Kennedy was shown rescuing a baby hawk that clawed his hand. ''He loved that,'' said Lee Stinchcomb, a friend. ''Because, he said, 'Now we're blood brothers.'''
        He was also a hero of ''Red-Tails in Love: A Wildlife Drama in Central Park,'' a book written by Marie Winn about the hawks and their devotees (Pantheon, 1998).
        He was a member of the Woodlands Advisory Board of the Central Park Conservancy, the nonprofit organization that manages the park, and he created the park's butterfly garden.
        Charles Francis Kennedy was born Oct. 19, 1937, in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and graduated from the University of Iowa in 1960. Enamored of Manhattan, he moved to New York almost immediately and found work at an insurance company. Later, after earning a master's degree in New York, he counseled children with psychological problems and also worked as a jewelry maker.
        In 1993, an inheritance from an aunt allowed him to retire and devote much of his days and nights to watching cicadas emerge, long-eared owls roost and spiders weave their webs. He captured his discoveries in photographs and in poetry that he bound in books for his friends.
        Ms. Stinchcomb shared one of her favorite verses by Mr. Kennedy:
        empty milkweed pods
        weeks since a butterfly
        maybe there'll be owls
        Mr. Kennedy was a longtime supporter of the New York City Audubon Society and volunteered at the American Museum of Natural History, where he was particularly devoted to the Butterfly Conservatory.
        His marriage to Lois Klotz ended in divorce. In addition to his brother, Larry, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Mr. Kennedy is survived by his companion, Marsinay Smith.
      