
        Howard Keel, the barrel-chested star of lavish Hollywood musicals like ''Show Boat,'' ''Kiss Me Kate,'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' and later of the television show ''Dallas,'' died early yesterday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was colon cancer, according to his son, Gunnar Keel.
        Born Harold Clifford Leek in Illinois, Mr. Keel grew up poor. His father was a coal miner and an alcoholic who died before his son reached high school. His mother was a strict Methodist opposed to entertainment.
        ''I had a terrible, rotten childhood,'' he told a London newspaper in 1995. ''My father made away with himself when I was 11. I had no guidance, and Mom was six feet tall, bucktoothed and very tough. I was mean and rebellious and had a terrible, bitter temper. I got a job as an auto mechanic, and I would have stayed in that narrow kind of life if I hadn't discovered art. Music changed me completely.''
        His show business career started at a Los Angeles restaurant, where he was paid $15 a week and two meals a day to be a singing busboy. During World War II he worked for Douglas Aircraft, belting out tunes at company plants to improve morale.
        His big break came in 1946, after Oscar Hammerstein II hired him to replace John Raitt as Billy Bigelow in the Broadway production of ''Carousel.'' He went on to play Curly in the London opening of ''Oklahoma!'' and stayed with the role for 18 months.
        After about two years with Rodgers and Hammerstein, however, Mr. Keel began to chafe at his $250-a-week salary. He returned to Los Angeles, and in 1950, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer signed him to an $850-a-week contract.
        His first film (now with the name Howard Keel) was ''Annie Get Your Gun'' in 1950. Playing Frank Butler, a star sharpshooter, opposite Betty Hutton as Annie Oakley, Mr. Keel immediately struck stardom. With a rich baritone and ruddy good looks, he became one of the Hollywood musical's ideal leading men.
        In 1951, he starred opposite Kathryn Grayson in ''Show Boat''; they teamed up again two years later in ''Kiss Me Kate,'' and later toured nightclubs together reprising their roles.
        ''Everything came naturally to him,'' said Ms. Grayson, in a telephone interview yesterday. ''He sang beautifully. He was a wonderful friend.''
        In 1954, he made his best-known film, and personal favorite, ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.'' His last musicals for MGM, in 1955, included ''Kismet'' and ''Jupiter's Darling.''
        As the studio system began to fade, Mr. Keel shifted toward dramas along with the big-budget musicals. He worked on several westerns, including ''The War Wagon'' with John Wayne and Kirk Douglas. He also returned to the stage, touring in productions of everything from old favorites like ''Show Boat'' to newer musicals. In 1977, he teamed with Jane Powell on a record-breaking national theater tour of ''South Pacific.''
        Television soon called. With his career seemingly on the wane, he landed the role of the oil-rich widower Clayton Farlow in ''Dallas.'' For 10 years, from 1981 until the show went off the air in 1991, his 6-foot-3-inch frame and gravelly voice made him the elder, gruff rival to J.R. Ewing, the spoiled, arrogant tycoon played by Larry Hagman. Mr. Ewing never accepted Mr. Farlow's marriage to Mr. Ewing's mother, Miss Ellie (played first by Barbara Bel Geddes and later by Donna Reed).
        In real life, Mr. Keel's first two marriages, to the actress Rosemary Cooper and the dancer Helen Anderson, ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, Judy Magamoll, and their daughter, Leslie Keel; three children from his marriage to Ms. Anderson, his son and two daughters, Kaija Keel and Kirstine Hales; 10 grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
        Throughout Mr. Keel's career, music remained his passion. After leaving ''Dallas,'' he joined several touring productions. In 1995, at age 76, he played several shows in England, singing the songs that had made him famous. At 80, he played Atlantic City for the first time.
        ''If you're a singer and love to sing, as I do,'' he told an interviewer after ''Dallas'' ended, ''there is nothing more fulfilling than standing on a stage when you're in a good voice and belting out songs.''
      