
        Ellmore C. Patterson, a New York banker who was instrumental in shaping the financial community's response to the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in Locust Valley, N.Y. He was 90 and also had residences on Fishers Island and in Hobe Sound, Fla.
        Mr. Patterson's son Michael announced the death.
        Mr. Patterson was the chairman and chief executive of J.P. Morgan & Company and its subsidiary, the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, from 1971 to 1978. His efforts in the mid-1970's to avert the city's looming bankruptcy led to the creation, in 1979, of the Partnership for New York City, a coalition of civic and business leaders.
        Ellmore Clark Patterson, known throughout his adult life as Pat, was born on Nov. 29, 1913, in Western Springs, Ill. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1935 and joined J.P. Morgan the same year. Except for naval service during World War II, he remained with Morgan for the rest of his career.
        In 1975, a number of prominent financial executives, among them Mr. Patterson and David Rockefeller, formed the Financial Community Liaison Group, which worked with municipal, state and federal officials in an effort to restore New York City's fiscal health. As the group's chairman, Mr. Patterson stressed that the role of the banking industry was not to bail out the city through loans, as it had done during the Great Depression, but instead to attract investors.
        ''A bank's service to the community involves the stewardship of funds entrusted to it by all segments of the community,'' he told The New York Times in 1975. ''When those whom a bank serves make requests of it -- typically for credit -- which could be met only by using other people's money imprudently, the banks must decline. Only by remaining sound and vindicating the trust the community places in it can a bank continue to perform the functions which justify its existence.''
        Mr. Patterson is survived by his wife, the former Anne Hyde Choate, whom he married in 1940; five sons: Michael, of Manhattan, a vice chairman of J.P. Morgan Chase & Company; Arthur, of San Francisco; Robert, of Boston; David, of Manhattan; and Thomas, of Katonah, N.Y.; 15 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      