
        Zachary Solov, a dancer and choreographer who led the Metropolitan Opera Ballet when Rudolf Bing was the opera's general manager, died on Saturday in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said Dean Temple, who is writing Mr. Solov's authorized biography.
        Mr. Solov's career was wide ranging. He danced with pioneering American ballet companies like the Littlefield Ballet, George Balanchine's American Ballet Caravan and Eugene Loring's Dance Players.
        He also partnered Carmen Miranda in the Roxy theater's stage show and performed with American Ballet Theater before Bing invited him to be ballet master of the Metropolitan Opera's ballet in 1951.
        One of Mr. Solov's first actions at the Met was to engage Janet Collins as the ballet troupe's first black star and the first black artist to be under regular contract at the Metropolitan (four years before Marian Anderson sang there). Mr. Solov cast Ms. Collins for a new production of ''Aida'' in 1951, and later in ''Carmen,'' ''La Gioconda'' and other operas until she left in 1954.
        As ballet master, Mr. Solov tried to have dance figure more prominently within Met productions despite the usual stepchild status of dance on the opera stage.
        In addition to the dances he created for operas, Mr. Solov choreographed independent ballets presented by the Metropolitan. These included ''Vittorio,'' in which he appeared with the ballerina Mia Slavenska in 1955, and ''Soirée, which he created in 1956 for Oleg Briansky and Mary Ellen Moylan, a guest artist and a star with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and Ballet Theater.
        Mr. Solov also choreographed for Metropolitan Opera performances featured on the television program ''Omnibus.'' He left the company in 1958, but was guest choreographer there until the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Solov was born to deaf parents in Philadelphia and studied there at the Dauphin School of the Arts and the Littlefied Ballet School. He was a child tap-dancer, appearing with the young Honi Coles, and on radio shows like ''The Horn & Hardart Children's Hour.''
        His association with Caroline Littlefield at her school brought him into contact with her daughters, Catherine and Dorothie, when they formed the Littlefield Ballet in the 1930's. As one of the first professional American ballet companies outside an opera house, the troupe set new standards and later provided Balanchine with many of his first dancers in the United States.
        In 1940 Mr. Solov moved from the Littlefield Ballet to the School of American Ballet, founded by Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein, and was sent on the 1941 Latin American tour of American Ballet Caravan, a short-lived precursor to New York City Ballet.
        Permanent ballet companies were few at the time and Mr. Solov, like many other classically trained dancers, appeared in stage shows. Leonid Leonidoff hired him for the Roxy. He also danced leading roles in Loring's experimental troupe, Ballet Players, and in operettas choreographed by Balanchine for the New Opera Company.
        After he was drafted into the Army in 1943, Mr. Solov danced in and choreographed 35 Army revues in the United States and Asia. From 1946 to 1949 he performed with Ballet Theater: one of his major roles was in ''Shadow of the Wind,'' a work considered ahead of its time and choreographed by Antony Tudor to Mahler's ''Lied von der Erde.''
        Mr. Solov also appeared on Broadway and danced on television in ''Your Show of Shows'' and ''The Fred Allen Show.'' In 1954 he choreographed ''The Golden Apple'' for Ballet Sextette, made up of Maria Tallchief and other stars of New York City Ballet.
        After leaving his position at the Met he headed his own group, Zachary Solov Ballet Ensemble, and created dances for regional ballet troupes and musicals. He was the author, with William English, of a book, ''Basic Ballet: A New Way to Learn the Fundamentals.''
        Mr. Solov is survived by a sister, Sylvia Rosenfeld of Philadelphia; a nephew, Arthur Rosenfeld, also of Philadelphia; and a niece, Ruthie Rosenfeld McCarthy of New York.
      