
        George Gross, who reorganized New York's vast and troubled Human Resources Administration as its commissioner in the mid-1980's, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        He had lung cancer and died after surgery to remove a section of his lungs, said his son, Julian.
        At a time when New York's crack epidemic and its disruption of poor families made his position a lightning rod, Mr. Gross divided the Human Resources Administration, the city's social services agency, into three departments that have remained autonomous. Today these functions are known as the Human Resources Administration, concerned with public assistance; the Department of Homeless Services; and the Administration for Children's Services.
        He also tried to reduce homelessness by shifting funds to organized shelters, reflecting his longstanding interest in building inexpensive housing.
        In 1986, he left the Human Resources Administration to become executive director of the Financial Control Board, created during New York's fiscal crisis in the 1970's to monitor and approve the city's budget.
        Earlier he was a behind-the-scenes architect of the federal government's most popular grant program for community development, the Community Development Block Grant. He had championed the program, and several housing measures, while he was chief counsel of the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development in the 1970's.
        ''Before something even got to us, he really had a major role in the design of the programs themselves,'' said Thomas Ludlow Ashley, a former congressman from Ohio who was chairman of the subcommittee.
        Born Gabor Grosz on May 1, 1934, in Hungary, he emigrated with his family to Connecticut shortly before Hitler closed the country's borders. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and a law degree from Boston University.
        In Washington, he joined the Department of Housing and Urban Development, at the time called the Housing and Home Financing Agency, as a staff attorney.
        He was later executive director of the House Budget Committee and was chief lobbyist for the National League of Cities in 1978. In 1989, he became a federal lobbyist for the Magazine Publishers of America. Last year he was lured out of retirement for about nine months to become chief administrator of Bridgeport, Conn., his childhood hometown.
        His marriage to Marcy Gross ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, Julian, of San Francisco; a daughter, Alexandra Drees-Gross, of Washington; a brother, Joseph, of Fairfield, Conn.; and a granddaughter.
      