
        Michel T. Halbouty, a legendary wildcatter who discovered more than 50 oil and gas fields from Louisiana to Alaska and warned of the Arab oil embargo 13 years before it happened, died on Nov. 6 at a Houston hospital. He was 95.
        Mary Stewart, his assistant for many years, confirmed the death.
        Mr. Halbouty, known in oil patches and boardrooms as Mike, seemed an oilman from central casting with his silver mustache and suave speech. Drilling for oil, he said, was ''a heartache business,'' and his hundreds of dry holes and at least two personal bankruptcies proved it.
        But he struck black gold often enough to be a millionaire many times over, he bought and sold banks, and he advised presidents. He headed Ronald Reagan's energy task force in his first campaign and was chairman of George H.W. Bush's presidential library.
        Wearer of a battered, virtually illegible Texas A&M ring on the finger where other married people wear wedding rings, Mr. Halbouty persuaded Mr. Bush to have the library put on the A&M campus.
        Mr. Halbouty's wildcatting credentials began as a boy lugging ice water to roughnecks at Spindletop, the Beaumont, Tex., oilfield where America's first gusher blew in. He attained midcareer prominence as the most vocal independent oilman chastising major oil companies for neglecting domestic drilling in favor of cheap imports.
        Mr. Halbouty was as much sophisticated scientist as gambler. He graduated from Texas A&M in 1930 with degrees in geology and petroleum engineering, and the next year earned master's degrees in both.
        His many honors included the Legendary Geoscientist Award, given by the American Geological Institute in 2002, and an honorary doctorate in earth sciences from the Soviet Union's Academy of Sciences.
        He wrote 370 articles and four books, including a seminal work about drilling into subterranean salt domes.
        His first publication was his master's thesis, a study of the geology of Atascosa County, Tex. Mr. Halbouty was so intrigued he urged his adviser to team up with him to drill there. The professor declined, and Mr. Halbouty forgot about it.
        The more than 50 oilfields that were later found in Atascosa County have produced more than 140 million barrels of oil, none Mr. Halbouty's.
        His most legendary achievement was finding a copiously productive field six weeks after leaving graduate school. He was working as a chain-puller for an oil company surveying team along the Texas coast.
        Miles Frank Yount, the owner, had ordered his foreman to drill for oil over a salt dome and move on if a drilling test showed nothing. The test was negative, but Mr. Halbouty theorized that oil lurked deeper. Just when the foreman was quitting, Mr. Halbouty sped 50 miles to Mr. Yount's mansion in his Ford jalopy.
        He interrupted a formal party honoring the Polish pianist Ignace Paderewski. Mr. Halbouty, dressed in muddy boots and floppy hat, navigated through gowned ladies to a displeased Mr. Yount. He breathlessly showed him a rock sample, then literally bet his job that oil would be found. Soon, 75,000 barrels flowed from the field each day.
        Michel Thomas Halbouty was born on June 21, 1909, in Beaumont, where his father, a Lebanese immigrant, had a grocery store.
        As a high school junior, he noticed a huge and troubling difference between the earth's age as taught by the Eastern Orthodox Church and scientific estimates, according to ''Wildcatter: the Story of Michel T. Halbouty and the Search for Oil'' by Jack Donahue (McGraw-Hill, 1979). He began reading voraciously about geology.
        After college and several years of working with Mr. Yount and others, he set off on his own. His first eight wells were dry.
        Mr. Halbouty was in the Army Reserve when called to active duty in 1942. He wanted be in the infantry. Instead, he headed the board overseeing wartime oil production.
        He drilled in at least 26 states, including Alaska, where he was the first independent oilman to strike gas and the first to drill a dry hole.
        He became a vocal leader in industry groups, often taking unexpected positions. One was championing a new state regulation to require that each Texas oilfield be managed as an efficient unit, rather than letting each leaseholder pump whatever he could as fast as he could. The new rule passed; Oil Magazine estimated in 1962 that it cost Mr. Halbouty $2 million personally.
        In 1960, Mr. Halbouty said there would be an energy crisis by 1975 because the United States used too much imported oil. The Arab oil embargo occurred in 1973.
        Mr. Halbouty is survived by his wife, Billye; his daughter, Linda Faye Halbouty; his son, Thomas E. Kelly of Seattle; and seven grandchildren.
        The book about him told of his tears and whiskey binges after dry holes. His answer was to drill another well.
        ''I'm still a wildcatter,'' he told The Houston Chronicle. ''It's in my blood. I just can't stop it.''
      