
        Robin Kenyatta, a jazz saxophonist and composer whose eclectic style embraced hard bop, free jazz and an array of diverse influences from Latin to blues, died on Oct. 26 in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Kenyatta, who was scheduled to perform in Lucerne on Oct. 28, died in his sleep, his daughter, Ayo Kenyatta Haynes, said. He had returned to the United States in 2002 after living in Europe for three decades.
        In a career that began in the 1960's, Mr. Kenyatta collaborated with notable figures like the saxophonists Archie Shepp and Sonny Stitt, the trumpeter Bill Dixon, the trombonist Roswell Rudd and the pianists Valerie Capers and Andrew Hill. Best known as an alto saxophonist, he also played tenor saxophone and flute.
        Mr. Kenyatta was born Robert Prince Haynes on March 6, 1942, in Moncks Corner, S.C. He moved with his family to New York when he was 4 and took up the alto saxophone at 14. As a young man, he adopted the name Kenyatta in tribute to Jomo Kenyatta, the Kenyan nationalist leader.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Kenyatta recorded three albums for Atlantic Records: ''Gypsy Man,'' ''Terra Nova'' and ''Stompin' at the Savoy.'' His other albums include ''Until,'' ''Girl From Martinique'' and ''Cool Blue,'' recorded in 2001. He was also known for his cover recording, in 1973, of the theme from ''Last Tango in Paris.''
        After spending three years in France, Mr. Kenyatta moved to Switzerland in the early 1970's. He performed throughout Europe and founded Hello Jazz, a music school in Lausanne. In recent years, he taught at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass.
        Mr. Kenyatta's marriage to the former Pauline Rochester ended in divorce. Besides his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by his mother, Rebecca, of Manhattan; a brother, Thomas, of East Stroudsburg, Pa.; a sister, Doris, of Virginia Beach; two sons, Brandon, of Manhattan, and Lorin, of Bern, Switzerland; and two grandchildren.
        Last year, Mr. Kenyatta gave his first United States performance in many years, in Boston.
      