
        John E. Reilly, an auto executive who lobbied for open markets for imported cars at a time when domestic makers were at their most defensive, died Nov. 12 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his son Robert. Mr. Reilly, who was known as Jack, was the logical spokesman for import manufacturers. From 1969 to 1971, he led the introduction of Porsche and Audi cars in the United States for Volkswagen, which was distributing both brands, and he started American Isuzu Motors in 1980 with five employees. In between, he was a partner in two Toyota distributorships -- one responsible for New England and the other for the mid-Atlantic region.
        As chairman of the Association of International Automobile Manufacturers, Mr. Reilly successfully lobbied against measures to limit car imports in the 1980's and early 1990's, when foreign companies were beginning to make and sell enough cars to worry Detroit. He testified before Congress, spoke to the media and put a courteous American face on overseas automakers.
        ''He made the case for open and free investment during a time when there was considerable political pressure to go the other way,'' said William C. Duncan, general director of the Washington office of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association. ''He was basically keeping competition going.''
        At Isuzu, he made sport utility vehicles widely available in the United States in the form of the Isuzu Trooper, a spacious five-door truck first sold in 1984. While other Japanese manufacturers were selling S.U.V.'s in Japan, American Isuzu Motors was the first to promote them heavily in the United States.
        John Eugene Reilly was born Nov. 14, 1926, in Spangler, Pa., the son of touring vaudeville performers. After serving on a submarine in World War II, he received a business degree from Boston College in 1951 and began selling auto parts.
        Mr. Reilly became a district sales manager for Buick in 1957 and joined Volkswagen as national sales manager in 1964. In 1969 he became president of Porsche-Audi of America. Later while working as a consultant, he prepared a report that persuaded Isuzu to enter the American market. Isuzu hired him as general manager and later made him chairman of its American operations.
        Mr. Reilly is survived by his wife of 54 years, Eleanor; two sons, Robert, of Whittier, Calif., and James, of Newbury Park, Calif.; two daughters, Susan Weaver, of Jupiter Beach, Fla., and Jennifer Biggs, of San Clemente, Calif.; two sisters, Patricia Schuler and Roberta Jordan, both of Charlottesville, Va.; 11 grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      