
        Olivier Guichard, a guardian of France's Gaullist legacy and architect of its regional administration, last Tuesday at his home in Paris after a long illness, according to an announcement placed in the name of his family, which appeared in Le Figaro. He was 83.
        Led by President Jacques Chirac, France mourned the passing of one of the last ''barons of Gaullism.''
        In fact, Olivier Guichard came from a landed baronial family of the Gironde, on the Bay of Biscay. He was an early convert who stuck with Charles de Gaulle in and out of goverment, though he affronted Gaullist stalwarts after the general's death in 1970 by working with his successors, Georges Pompidou and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.
        He served six times as a cabinet minister under all three, reportedly declining the premier's post at least once. He was also less nationalistic than core Gaullists, supporting the European Parliament.
        Olivier Marie Maurice Guichard was born in Néac, Gironde, and received degrees in literature and law.
        His father, Baron Louis Guichard, was a naval officer and diplomat who briefly served the Vichy Government of Marshal Pétain. The son, at 23, narrowly escaped being sent to work in Germany, but the father's influence got him posted to a French colonial regiment.
        At the end of the war, he returned to the Gironde and took his father's seat on the Néac town council. He joined de Gaulle's political movement and, despite his father's Vichy past, became chief of de Gaulle's personal staff in 1947. Unofficially he held that position through the general's postwar years in the political wilderness.
        He was among the faithful who prepared for de Gaulle's popular surge to power in 1958. He then assisted his chief of staff, Mr. Pompidou, and when Mr. Pompidou took the premiership in 1962 he became the chief aide once more.
        An eminence grise of Gaullism, he secured its position throughout France, commanding the economic development of the provinces for much of that time. Then he ran projects in the Sahara, shoring up French oil interests ahead of Algerian independence. His later portfolios included industry, economic planning, education and, finally in 1976-77, justice.
        As minister of education (1969-72) he managed the aftermath of student riots and social upheavals. He oversaw the overhaul of France's centralized Napoleonic school system to give the universities a degree of autonomy and a voice to students and faculty.
        He was an instrument of de Gaulle's vision of a changed France. His four years in charge of regional affairs, 1963 to '67, left their imprint on regional investment and economic growth as well as town planning, agriculture and national parks.
        He was a commander of the Legion of Honor, winner of the Croix de Guerre and an author of books on government and education. His memoir of de Gaulle, ''Mon Général'' (1980), won the Prix des Ambassadeurs.
        His first wife, Suzanne Vincent, whom he met in the Resistance, died in 1980. His survivors include his wife, Baroness Guichard, the former Daisy de Galard; three daughters, Malcy Guichard-Ozannat, Constance Poniatowski and Aline Goldschmidt; and seven grandchildren.
      