
        Dr. Sidney Goldring, a neurosurgeon and educator who was an early advocate for a brain operation that he helped to develop for patients with severe epilepsy, died on Nov. 3 at a nursing home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which was diagnosed seven years ago, said his wife, Lois.
        In the 1960's and 70's, Dr. Goldring worked to develop a procedure using general anesthesia for brain surgery on patients with epilepsy, a disorder set off by abnormal discharges of the brain's nerve cells. Those discharges can cause seizures and loss of memory and control of the body. Previously, surgeons experimented with operations under local anesthesia and obtained inconsistent results.
        At a time when patients were being treated mostly with drugs, Dr. Goldring believed that electrodes could be placed on the brain to determine precise areas involved in setting off seizures. Once that was done, the patient was put under general anesthesia and the tissue could be cut out without damaging the surrounding brain. The procedure remains in use today.
        ''Sidney Goldring focused national attention on the benefits of surgery at a time when people were worried about any surgical intervention in the brain,'' said Dr. Gerald D. Fischbach, dean of the faculty of medicine at Columbia University and a former colleague of Dr. Goldring's at Washington University in St. Louis.
        Dr. Goldring was born in Poland and immigrated to the United States with his family as a child. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Washington University.
        In 1958, he was named an assistant professor of neurological surgery at Washington before becoming head of neurological surgery at the University of Pittsburgh from 1964 to 1966. Dr. Goldring then returned to Washington University to become a full professor and remained for the rest of his career.
        From 1980 to 1988, he was director of the university's McDonnell Center for Studies of Higher Brain Function. He retired in 1990.
        Dr. Goldring was a former president of the American Academy of Neurological Surgery, American Association of Neurological Surgeons and Society of Neurological Surgeons. He served as chairman of the American Board of Neurological Surgery from 1974 to 1976.
        A longtime resident of St. Louis, Dr. Goldring is survived by Lois, his wife of 59 years; a son, Dr. James M., a neurologist, of St. Louis; a daughter, Kathryn Coryell of Iowa City; and four grandchildren.
      