
        Jasper Herbert Kane, a biochemist who had a central role in moving antibiotics like penicillin from the laboratory table into industrial production in World War II, died on Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. A resident of Delray Beach, Fla., he formerly lived in Shelter Island and Garden City, N.Y. He was 101.
        His death was announced by Polytechnic University, formerly the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, where he studied evenings, graduated in 1928 and became a major benefactor in later life. He made his scientific contributions during his decades of work at Pfizer Inc., the pharmaceutical company.
        Born in Brooklyn, he went to work at the Brooklyn plant of Chas. Pfizer & Company in 1919. He began as a teenage assistant to James Currie, who managed to manufacture citric acid by mold fermentation of sugar, thus helping Pfizer shake its dependency on European citrus growers.
        Dr. Kane built on that to develop a deep-tank fermentation process that used molasses for raw material rather than refined sugar. It was his idea, in 1942, that this deep-tank mold fermentation method could also make penicillin, streptomycin and other antibiotics in large quantities.
        Penicillin, discovered by Sir Alexander Fleming in Britain in 1928, was still being made dose by dose.
        As Henry A. McKinnell Jr., Pfizer's chairman, told the Polytechnic graduating class in May, Dr. Kane's concept for a shortcut to mass production initially got a cool reception because of the risks the company was asked to take. Dr. McKinnell quoted a senior executive as objecting in 1943 that the mold in question was ''as temperamental as an opera singer,'' that its yields were forbiddingly low and isolation as difficult as its extraction, and that ''the purification process itself invites disaster.''
        At the time, hundreds of Allied soldiers were dying daily from infections. Desperate measures were in order, and Dr. Kane's production idea was put to the test in 1943. Pfizer bought an ice-making plant in Brooklyn and made its conversion a round-the-clock race against time.
        The plant opened in March 1943 with 14 7,500-gallon tanks, and was producing more than 45 million units of broad-spectrum antibiotics by the end of the year. The process was shared with other major companies for the war effort.
        In his book ''In Search of Penicillin'' (Knopf, 1976), David Wilson wrote, ''It is the biggest single failing of the myth about penicillin that it ignores the technological breakthrough of deep fermentation, a breakthrough that was every bit as vital to the successful development of penicillin as any of the more dramatic laboratory work.''
        At the time, Pfizer was not a pharmaceutical firm but a supplier of chemicals and ingredients for the food and drink industry. As an outsider and pioneer of the deep-fermentation technique, Mr. Wilson wrote, it had ''freedom of thought and a fresh approach'' and made ''some very bold decisions'' to enter into antibiotics production.
        Dr. Kane rose to become a vice president and director of biochemical research and development at Pfizer, overseeing the search for many other compounds to be tested and fashioned into medicines. In particular, he was credited with leading the laboratory team that developed Terramycin, a synthetic broad-spectrum antibiotic first marketed in 1954, the year after his retirement, that is still in use. At Polytechnic, the organic chemistry and crystallography labs, as well as a new cafeteria, carry his name. Dr. Kane's wife, Isabel, died in 1981 after 54 years of marriage. Dr. Kane is survived by his sister, Evelyn Kane, three grandsons and seven great-grandchildren.
      