
        Dr. Robert F. Bacher, a nuclear physicist and one of the leaders of the Manhattan Project, died on Thursday at a retirement home in Montecito, Calif. He was 99.
        His death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had been a professor and provost.
        In 1943, Dr. Bacher joined the Manhattan Project, the budding effort to develop an atomic weapon at Los Alamos, N.M. He served as head of the project's experimental physics division before leading its bomb physics division in 1944 and 1945.
        Dr. Robert F. Christy, a colleague on the Manhattan Project and later at Caltech, said Dr. Bacher had urged J. Robert Oppenheimer, the director, to reject placing the project under military control as a way to ensure greater secrecy and security.
        ''Bacher had a sense of what was right and not right,'' Dr. Christy said. ''He told Oppenheimer not to take an Army commission, and that scientists had to be able to think independently.'' The bomb project continued under civilian oversight.
        After the war, Dr. Bacher served on the United States Atomic Energy Commission from 1946 to 1949 and testified before a joint Congressional committee about a deterioration in the nation's nuclear weapons program. In 1946, he took an inventory at Los Alamos and later testified that he had been ''deeply shocked to find how few atomic weapons we had.'' Bomb production increased soon afterward with technical improvements in preparing plutonium and other fissionable materials.
        Dr. Bacher became a professor of physics at Caltech in 1949. He served as the institute's first provost, from 1962 to 1970, and as chairman of the division of physics, mathematics and astronomy from 1949 to 1962. He became a professor emeritus in 1976.
        Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, a colleague at Caltech who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1969, recalled Dr. Bacher as ''a worldly wise person, an administrator who could always see the problems ahead, organizational, political and so on.''
        Dr. Gell-Mann cited Dr. Bacher's role at Caltech in building an electron synchrotron, a particle accelerator, as well as his support and testimony in defense of Oppenheimer when his security clearance was questioned, and ultimately revoked, in 1954 after Oppenheimer was accused of having Communist ties.
        Robert Fox Bacher was born in Loudonville, Ohio. He received his undergraduate degree and doctorate from the University of Michigan, and also taught at Columbia and Cornell.
        He was a former president of the American Physical Society and the International Union of Pure and Applied Physics. He was awarded the President's Medal for Merit in 1946.
        Dr. Bacher is survived by a daughter, Martha Bacher Eaton of Santa Barbara, Calif., and a son, Andrew Dow Bacher, a nuclear physicist at the University of Indiana.
        Correction:  December 10, 2004, Friday  A picture caption on Nov. 22 with an obituary of Dr. Robert F. Bacher, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, referred incorrectly in some copies to the date of the first atomic bomb test. (A similar error occurred in a caption on May 11, 1999, with an article about research into atomic espionage, and in a caption on July 18, 1996, with an obituary of Dr. Kenneth T. Bainbridge, who also worked on the bomb.) While the photograph of Dr. Bacher and other Manhattan Project scientists was made in September 1945, the test was in July 1945.
      