
        Walter Mintz, an investor who was co-founder of one of the country's first hedge funds and later promoted free-market approaches to education and city governance, died Nov. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was neuroendocrine cancer, said his wife, Sandra.
        When Mr. Mintz and a colleague, Donald Cecil, started Cumberland Associates in 1970, only a handful of firms invested in such a wide variety of ways, assumed such potentially high risks or pledged such lofty returns. Now, there are roughly 7,000 hedge funds, and Cumberland Associates has reported returns of more than 18 percent a year on average.
        Mr. Mintz's investing success allowed him to retire at 53 and devote his time to applying the economic theories he had studied and espoused while a doctoral candidate at Columbia. As an early supporter and vice chairman of the Manhattan Institute, a free-market research organization in New York, he designed and funded studies promoting the idea of charter schools in the early 1990's. ''You couldn't even talk about school choice without people getting upset,'' said Lawrence Mone, president of the Manhattan Institute. ''Walter helped the Institute start that conversation in New York. He talked about using the forces of competition in the marketplace to encourage better education and more accountability.''
        Mr. Mintz was born Feb. 23, 1929 in Vienna and immigrated with his family to the Bronx when he was 9.
        He graduated from Reed College in 1950 and became a trustee in 1971, a post he held for 33 years. He became the board's vice chairman in 1991, was chairman from 1998 to 2002, and oversaw the investment committee for two decades of record returns. He funded two scholarships that bear his name, and he recently endowed a professorship in economic history.
        After college, Mr. Mintz was a reporter at Barron's magazine. He left to become a stock analyst at Shearson, Hammill and Co., then one of the largest brokerage firms, and advanced to director of research and then executive vice president. In a company advertisement in 1965, he was featured with hands folded and a knowing sideways glance. ''Professional skeptic,'' said the caption.
        In addition to his wife of 33 years, the former Sandra Earl, Mr. Mintz is survived by a sister, Marjorie G. Perloff, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.
      