
        Ancel Keys, the Minnesota physiologist who put saturated fat on the map as a major cause of heart disease and was the first scientist to champion the health value of a Mediterranean-style diet, died on Saturday in Minneapolis. He was 100 and had remained intellectually active through his 97th year. His death was announced by the University of Minnesota, where he had long worked.
        From humble beginnings -- he was born on Jan. 26, 1904, in Colorado Springs to teenagers who soon after moved to Berkeley, Calif., to find work -- Dr. Keys built a career that changed the thinking on many aspects of physiology and health, including the effects of starvation and the factors responsible for the most devastating epidemic in the industrialized world, coronary heart disease.
        He was the founder in 1939 of what became a world-famous research facility, the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene at the University of Minnesota School of Public Health, and he was its director for 33 years.
        In the 1940's, a serendipitous event made his name known to millions. Because he had performed blood tests on himself in the Andes to determine the body's response to high altitudes, the War Department asked him to develop pocket-size food rations for World War II paratroopers. The result was the infamous K ration, named for its developer and distributed to hundreds of thousands of American troops during the war. Though complaints about the small nutrition-packed meals abounded, grateful recipients included 25 soldiers who were stranded for 10 days in a half-submerged transport plane in the South Pacific with nothing but 25 K rations and a gallon of water.
        The knowledge that millions of people were starving during the war prompted Dr. Keys to embark on another government project, a groundbreaking study of the effects of starvation and how best to re-feed starving people. With 36 volunteers among men doing menial jobs as conscientious objectors, he studied the effects of starvation and re-feeding on the body and mind. As the men became increasingly emaciated in three months of eating only root vegetables, dark bread and simple starchy foods and walking 22 miles a week, they became depressed, irritable, sexless, fatigued and always hungry, licking their plates to consume every calorie of their meager rations. The findings were detailed in a book published in 1950, ''Biology of Human Starvation,'' a classic in the field.
        Among his colleagues in medicine and biology, Dr. Keys, who earned two Ph.D.'s, one in biology from Berkeley and the other in physiology from Kings College in Cambridge, England, is perhaps best known for his landmark epidemiological research, the so-called Seven Countries study, begun in 1958 and lasting decades. This ambitious study of 12,000 healthy middle-aged men living in Italy, the Greek Islands, Yugoslavia, the Netherlands, Finland, Japan and the United States lent convincing population support to the studies that had pointed to saturated fats as the cause of the arterial blockages known to result in heart attacks.
        The Seven Countries study, also published in a book issued in 1980 by Harvard Press, revealed that the Mediterranean diet, rich in fruits and vegetables, pasta, bread and olive oil with meat, fish and dairy products used as condiments, was highly protective against heart disease even though the diet derived more than 35 percent of its calories from fat.
        Japan, where vegetables, rice and fish were the mainstays of a diet very low in saturated fat and fat of any kind, had the next lowest rate of heart disease among the countries studied. But in Finland and the United States, where a diet rich in saturated animal fats prevailed (the Finns often spread butter on their cheese), the coronary rates were about 10 times as high.
        Dr. Henry Blackburn, who succeeded Dr. Keys at the laboratory, said: ''The Seven Countries study demonstrated the preventability of heart attacks. They were not a natural aging phenomenon, or genetically predetermined or acts of God.''
        Dr. Keys added to the evidence for major cardiac risk factors through a study of executives. Starting in 1947, each year the survivors from a group of 283 initially healthy men returned for checkups, including questions about their habits and lifestyles. After 40 years of follow-up, 54 of the men were still living. Most others had died of heart disease.
        Dr. Keys is survived by his wife, Margaret; a daughter, Carrie D'Andrea of Bloomington, Minn.; and a son, Dr. Henry Keys, of Albany. Another daughter, Martha McLain, was murdered in 1991 while on vacation in Jamaica with her family.
        With his wife, a biochemist whom he married in 1939, Dr. Keys wrote two best-selling books, ''Eat Well and Stay Well'' and ''How to Eat Well and Stay Well the Mediterranean Way.'' These and a third book they wrote, ''The Benevolent Bean,'' had the kind of recipes that Dr. Keys's studies suggested kept heart disease at bay. The royalties enabled the Keyses to build a home in Naples, where they ate nourishing Mediterranean meals.
      