
        Jacob Mishler, a senior federal judge for the Eastern District of New York and its chief judge for 11 years, died on Monday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and lived in Garden City, N.Y.
        His death was announced yesterday by the court, which he served for 43 years after his appointment by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, most recently serving on Long Island.
        Based in Brooklyn, the Eastern District of New York also covers Queens and Staten Island as well as Nassau and Suffolk Counties. It is one of the country's busiest, and Judge Mishler made his reputation as a trial judge.
        Preferring that role to the more distant administrative role of chief judge, he stepped down at 68, two years before he would have been required to do so, to resume hearing cases. He became a senior judge, with a theoretically reduced schedule.
        He moved his chambers to Long Island and continued to preside over cases into his 90's, in Uniondale and later at the new courthouse in Central Islip. As senior judge, he also took on occasional assignments in federal court in southern Florida.
        Defense lawyers and prosecutors knew him as a stickler for punctuality who was direct and to the point. As a matter of courtesy, he paid special attention to the treatment accorded jurors and witnesses, lest their time and efforts be wasted.
        One of the most notable cases he presided over grew from an 11-year dispute involving corruption charges against the Republican Party in Nassau. In September 1985, a jury in Uniondale rendered a guilty verdict, finding that the Nassau County Republican Committee had required government workers from 1973 to 1976 to kick back 1 percent of their salaries to the party organization to get promotions or raises.
        Jacob Mishler was born on April 20, 1911, in Manhattan, the youngest of seven children of a baker with a clientele among restaurants and delicatessens. The family moved to Astoria, Queens, when he was 3, and he sometimes accompanied his brother making deliveries by horse-drawn carriage and later by car.
        He studied at New York University, received his J.D. from the university's School of Law in 1933 and went into private practice in Long Island City, Queens. He was a partner in a firm, Mishler & Wohl, when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller put him on the State Supreme Court for an interim appointment in 1959.
        The term ended after only two months, and he ran for election as a judge, losing badly, an outcome that, he said later, ''was the best thing that could have ever happened to me.''
        As a lawyer with Republican credentials, he was President Eisenhower's choice for a federal appointment a few months later.
        Judge Mishler's first marriage, to Lola Selly Mishler, ended in divorce. His second wife, Helen Shillet Mishler, died in 1999. He is survived by a son, Dr. Alan J. Mishler of Aurora, Colo.; a daughter, Judge Susan Lubitz of Palm Beach County Court, whom Judge Mishler swore in in 1993; a stepson, Bruce Shillet; a stepdaughter, Gail Shillet Unger; 10 grandchildren; and several great-grandchildren.
        Judge Mishler was not officially retired at his death and occasionally heard cases into the 21st century. In an interview in 1993, when he was 82, Judge Mishler told The New York Times that he had no plans to retire anytime soon. ''I suppose some lawyers feel a judge shouldn't sit on the bench after age 76,'' he said. ''But I haven't heard any complaints. I think Justice Holmes was in his 90's when he stepped down, and no one thought he lacked a judicial mind or judicial capacity.''
      