
        Dr. John R. Vane, a British pharmacologist who shared a Nobel Prize for clarifying how aspirin works and helping to expand its use, died on Friday in Farnborough, England, the University of London reported. He was 77 and had been in failing health since he underwent heart surgery two years ago.Dr. Vane's research with aspirin, already the most widely used drug in the world, also helped advance new therapies for heart and blood vessel disease and contributed to the development of two classes of widely prescribed drugs, the cox-2 inhibitors for pain and inflammation and the ACE inhibitors in blood pressure.
        Dr. Vane shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1982 with Sune K. Bergstrom and Bengt I. Samuelsson, both of the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm. Dr. Vane worked at the Wellcome Research Foundation in England.
        The Nobel committee cited Dr. Vane for discovering prostacyclin and carrying out detailed analyses of its biological effects and function. Prostacyclin falls into a category of compounds known as prostaglandins, which help the cells defend against sudden changes from injury, disease or stress.
        The Nobel committee cited Dr. Vane for identifying the secret of aspirin's ability to reduce fever, pain and inflammation and said he made ''the fundamental discovery'' that aspirin almost completely blocks the formation of prostaglandins and and a related substance, thromboxane.
        In 1984, he was knighted for his efforts.
        As a student in a suburb of Birmingham during World War II, he spent nights in an air-raid shelter. At 12, his parents gave him a chemistry set for Christmas. He then developed what he called a consuming passion for experimentation, he said in a biography for the Nobel Foundation.
        Dr. Vane recalled that he started experimenting in the family kitchen, using a Bunsen burner attached to a gas stove. But a minor explosion involving hydrogen sulfide ended that practice. So his father, who ran a company making portable buildings, built a shed in the garden that became his son's first real laboratory.
        Dr. Vane entered the University of Birmingham in 1944 to study chemistry, but was discouraged by a lack of enthusiasm there for his desire to experiment.
        This was the ''stage that I began to realize that my interest lay not in chemistry but more in experimentation,'' he said.
        When a professor asked him what he wanted to do after graduation, Dr. Vane said ''anything but chemistry.''
        The professor then asked whether his student wanted to go to Oxford to be trained in pharmacology. After accepting, Dr. Vane said he immediately ''went to the library to find out what pharmacology was all about!''
        That exchange, he said, ''reshaped my whole career.''
        In 1973, Dr. Vane was offered a job at the Wellcome Foundation, created by the founder of the Wellcome drug company. Friends advised him against joining industry.
        ''It was as if to say that good science can only be promulgated in academia,'' Dr. Vane said, adding that ''those friends were wrong.''
        Dr. Vane discovered that aspirin blocks an enzyme called cyclooxygenase, or cox, that stops production of the prostaglandins that contribute to pain, swelling and fever after injury to the body.
        On receiving the Nobel Prize, Dr. Vane said he disagreed with people who asserted that the major discoveries had been made, contending that there are ''plenty of things left to discover'' and that ''the trick is to find the right path from one to the other.''
        ''Dr. Vane laid the groundwork for the eventual discovery of the cox-1 and cox-2 inhibitor classes of drugs,'' said Dr. Ray N. DuBois, the associate director of the Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville, Tenn.
        Drugs of the cox-2 class like Vioxx are used to treat arthritis and pain. The class has become the focus of congressional hearings on the activities of the Food and Drug Administration in the United States and the drug industry. Merck removed Vioxx from the market in September after studies showed an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes when patients took it for 18 months or longer.
        Dr. Vane also helped the development of another class of drugs, the ACE inhibitors (for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors),
        widely prescribed to treat high blood pressure, heart failure and other circulatory diseases.
        Dr. Vane helped organize conferences to further pharmacologic research until he had his heart surgery to repair his mitral valve, said Dr. DuBois, a friend of Dr. Vane. Dr. Vane had to be resuscitated twice; broke his hip; underwent hip replacement surgery; and broke his hip again, Dr. DuBois said.
        Dr. Vane's honors include a Lasker Award, presented in 1977.
        He has been affiliated as chairman and honorary president of the William Harvey Research Institute of the University of London since 1986.
        Dr. Vane is survived by his wife, Daphne, and two daughters, Nicola and Miranda.
      