
        Paul Stuart Ostrove, the executive vice president who suavely presided over the selling floor of the Madison Avenue clothing store that was named for him, died on Nov. 21 at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause was lymphoma, said Jack Freedman, marketing manager for Paul Stuart.
        In 1938, Ralph, Paul's father, was searching for a name for the clothing store he was opening at Madison Avenue and 45th Street. He glanced at his 7-year-old son.
        ''My mother said, 'Why don't you call it Paul Stuart?''' Mr. Ostrove said in an interview with The New York Times in 1982. ''My father liked it, and that's what they named it. I don't think I had much to say about it.''
        Paul Stuart would become known for high-quality, stylish, but seldom faddish clothing, predominantly men's attire even after a women's department opened in the 1970's. Mr. Ostrove liked to call the store's understated suits and furnishings ''investment clothing.''
        The family's ownership of clothing stores went back to Paul Ostrove's grandfather Harry, who started a men's store called Broadstreet's around the time of World War I. By the 1920's, it had grown into a chain of three or four stores; it was sold in 1928, although Mr. Ostrove's father remained as president until 1937.
        The next year, he opened his own store around the corner from Brooks Brothers. Paul Stuart became known as the poor man's Brooks Brothers, although the store has since become pricier than Brooks.
        Mr. Ostrove began working in the store on Saturdays as a high school student, dusting boxes. After graduating from Colby College and serving in the Army, he began his full-time career with Paul Stuart in 1955 as a salesman of shirts and ties.
        He rose to executive vice president.
        Mr. Ostrove concentrated on merchandising for the men's department and endeared himself to the customers he saw as friends by his long-term memory for past purchases.
        ''You already own that,'' he would caution. ''I'm not going to sell you another one.''
        In the early 1960's, the store expanded from 45th Street around the corner onto Madison Avenue and then opened selling space on the second floor.
        Mr. Ostrove is survived by his wife, Estelle; his daughter Gail Kantor, of Manhattan; his sons, Michael, of Manhattan and David of California; his sister, Barbara Grodd, of Manhattan; and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Freedman said most customers had no idea of Mr. Ostrove's middle name, and, as a result, did not know they were shopping in his namesake. He certainly did not tell.
        ''It wasn't important to him,'' Mr. Freedman said. ''People were important to him.''
      