
        Rafael Eitan, a former Israeli Army chief of staff and government minister who was reprimanded after Lebanese Christian allies of Israel massacred Palestinian refugees in 1982, drowned on Tuesday after being swept into stormy seas. He was 75.
        Mr. Eitan was a war hero whom Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called ''a comrade-in-arms and a friend.'' But Mr. Eitan's reputation, like Mr. Sharon's, was blighted by the killing of hundreds at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps near Beirut while Israeli forces stood by.
        On Tuesday, Mr. Sharon called Mr. Eitan's life ''the story of this country.''
        Mr. Eitan, known as Raful, was born in 1929 in Tel Adashim, a communal farm, and at 16 he joined the Palmach, an elite fighting force of the Haganah that later became the foundation for the new state's army. A paratrooper and pilot, he fought in all of Israel's wars and was wounded four times.
        He was appointed chief of staff in 1978.
        Mr. Eitan was known as a blunt talker and strict disciplinarian who would always meet his troops returning from night raids against the Palestine Liberation Organization in Lebanon. He also established programs to bring poor youths into the army to integrate them better into Israeli society.
        The Kahan Commission, which investigated the killings at Sabra and Shatila, concluded in 1983 that Mr. Sharon, then the defense minister, and Mr. Eitan, then the chief of staff, had decided to send the Lebanese Phalangist militias into the camps, then had failed to act on information that the Phalangists had ''overdone it,'' as the commission put it. Mr. Eitan was allowed to retire after 37 years in the military; Mr. Sharon was forced to resign.
        In civilian life, Mr. Eitan was a carpenter and olive farmer.
        He was also a politician of the right who formed a hard-line party, Tzomet, when he left the army. He opposed withdrawal from Sinai and other interim peace deals with the Palestinians, whom he once called ''drugged cockroaches in a bottle.''
        He was elected to Parliament many times and served as agriculture minister, environment minister and deputy prime minister in various governments. His party later joined Likud, which Mr. Sharon currently leads.
        Mr. Eitan left politics to work in his olive grove and build rocking horses at his wood shop in his birthplace, and in recent years had gone back to work as an adviser and construction coordinator for the Ashtrom company, which is improving the breakwater at the port in Ashdod.
        Tuesday morning about 7, Mr. Eitan was examining storm damage at the breakfront and talking to the company on a cellphone when he was apparently swept off the breakwater by the sea, the police said. He was found by police and naval personnel aided by a helicopter, but paramedics were unable to revive him.
        Mr. Eitan is survived by his wife, Ofra Meirson, and three daughters. He had two sons; one died at 10 from an asthma attack and the other was killed during a training flight at 26.
      