
        Noel Perrin, a widely read scholar, essayist and critic whose work reveled in the deep, crystalline pleasure of ordinary experience, died on Sunday at his home in Thetford Center, Vt. He was 77.
        Mr. Perrin, who had been ill for some time with Shy-Drager syndrome, a degenerative neurological disorder, died not long after breaking his hip, said his wife, Sara Coburn.
        At his death, Mr. Perrin was emeritus professor of English and an adjunct professor of environmental studies at Dartmouth, where he had taught for more than four decades.
        Well known as a book critic and as a contributor to The New Yorker, Mr. Perrin wrote more than a dozen books. He was best known for his collections of autobiographical essays about the pleasures and occasional perils of life on a Vermont farm, beginning, in 1978, with ''First Person Rural.'' As the series progressed, his work became the benchmark against which other aspirants to the rural-writing genre were measured.
        Reviewing the next installment, ''Second Person Rural,'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1980, Roy Blount Jr. wrote: ''This is a dangerous book. It almost made me decide to go ahead and get pigs.''
        Mr. Perrin was an elegist of small things: the bubbling and sighing of apples in a cider press; the precisely forged edge of a samurai's sword, with its layers of folded steel. At its best, his work recalled E.B. White's in its lucid depictions of New England life, and John McPhee's in its fascination with how things work. The results were Georgics for the chainsaw age: ''A sugarhouse and an evaporator are all very well, but you still need sap,'' he wrote in ''Amateur Sugar Maker'' (1972). ''The easiest way to get sap out of a maple in the spring is to break off a twig. Sap will drip out of the broken end so fast as to be alarming, as if the tree had hemophilia. But it doesn't, and within a few hours the flow will stop. No one will ever run a sugar operation with a forest of weeping maples. For reliable supply, you've got to get access to the trunk. The easiest way to do that is to hit the tree with an ax.''
        Through the accretion of the particular, Mr. Perrin slowly revealed the general. What he was really writing, in chronicling the ebb and flow of everyday farm life, was a social history of the modern rural experience. And, as he made quite clear, it was not always the idyll that city people imagine:
        ''There's the little village, nestled among the hills,'' Mr. Perrin wrote, contemplating a New England calendar, in ''First Person Rural.'' ''There's the white church. There the majestic maples. What about the filling station? It's been cropped.''
        Mr. Perrin, always called Ned, was born Edwin Noel Perrin in Manhattan on Sept. 18, 1927. (He disliked the name Edwin and dropped it when he began writing.) He received a B.A. English from Williams College in 1949, an M.A. from Duke in 1950 and, after Army service in the Korean War, an M.Litt. from Cambridge University in 1958. In 1959, he joined the faculty at Dartmouth, where he specialized in modern poetry, in particular the work of Robert Frost.
        Several of Mr. Perrin's books, while accessible to a general readership, were scholarly in nature. Among them were ''Dr. Bowdler's Legacy: A History of Expurgated Books in England and America'' (1969) and ''Giving Up the Gun: Japan's Reversion to the Sword, 1543-1879'' (1979). An ardent environmentalist, he also wrote ''Solo: Life With an Electric Car'' (1992), a chronicle of a cross-country trip that turned out to involve very little driving and abundant towing.
        Mr. Perrin also explored the pleasures of reading itself. ''A Reader's Delight'' (1988) was a collection of rhapsodic essays about his favorite books, all obscure, most long out of print. Several of the titles were reissued as a result.
        Mr. Perrin's first two marriages to, Nancy Hunnicutt and Annemarie Price, ended in divorce. His third wife, Anne Spencer Lindbergh, a daughter of Charles Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh, died in 1993.
        In addition to Ms. Coburn, Mr. Perrin is survived by a sister, Burnley Perrin of Washington; two daughters from his first marriage, Margaret Haque-Joy of Lebanon, N.H., and Elisabeth, of Seattle; four stepchildren, Manon Price of West Lebanon, N.H., Kirsten Nachmanoff of Arlington, Va., Connie Feydy of Barnet, Vt., and Marek Sapieyevski of New York; one grandchild; and four step-grandchildren.
        Mr. Perrin's other books include ''A Child's Delight'' (1997), ''Third Person Rural'' (1983) and, in 1991, when he had run out of grammatical possibilities, ''Last Person Rural.''
      