
        Crazylegs Hirsch, the Hall of Fame receiver for the Los Angeles Rams' high-powered offenses of the early 1950's, died yesterday at an assisted-living facility in Madison, Wis. He was 80.
        His death was reported by the University of Wisconsin, where he starred as a halfback in the early 1940's and later served as athletic director.
        The Rams were among the first National Football League teams to exploit the forward pass, and Hirsch was a formidable deep threat.
        The Rams opened up the offense with a strategy that featured Hirsch on one side as the split end and Tom Fears on the other as the flanker. The star quarterbacks Norm Van Brocklin and Bob Waterfield threw to them. In the Rams' 1951 championship season, Hirsch caught 10 touchdown passes on plays that measured from 34 to 91 yards.
        He resurrected a career that seemed to have ended because of a series of injuries incurred while playing for a team that almost always lost, the Chicago Rockets of the All-America Football Conference.
        Elroy Hirsch first gained prominence when fans in Wausau, Wis., his hometown, gave him a nickname in high school that endured. When the tall, slim Hirsch ran, his legs seemed to whirl in several directions, and so he was known as Crazylegs.
        Otto Hirsch, his father and a Wausau ironworker, once explained: ''We lived two miles from school. Elroy ran to school and back, skipping and crisscrossing his legs in the cement blocks of the sidewalks. He said it would make him shiftier.''
        Hirsch went on to the University of Wisconsin and starred as a triple-threat halfback on the 1942 team. He then joined the Navy's V-12 program as a Marine Corps officer candidate and was transferred to the University of Michigan, where he won letters in football, basketball, baseball and track.
        In 1944, he took third place in the broad jump at the Big Ten championships in Champaign, Ill., then drove 130 miles to Bloomington, Ind., where he pitched as the Wolverines beat the Hoosiers in the second game of a doubleheader. Michigan won Big Ten championships in both sports that day.
        When World War II ended, Hirsch turned to professional football with the Rockets, playing for them from 1946 to 1948, a span in which their record was 7-32-3 under seven coaches. ''Three frightful years,'' said Hirsch, who sustained back and leg injuries and a skull fracture.
        The Rams of the N.F.L. took him in 1949, and Clark Shaughnessy, then the coach, shifted the battered Hirsch from running back to split end.
        In 1951 Hirsch set a league record for most receiving yards, 1,495, that lasted 19 years. He tied a record for most touchdowns, 17.
        He was the master of the over-the-head fingertip catch in full stride. The coach of the New York Yanks, Jimmy Phelan, once said: ''He doesn't fake a lot and he doesn't look around to tip off the defense. He must have eyes in the back of his big ears.''
        Hirsch had six more good years with the Rams before retiring with career statistics that ensured his induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1968: 387 receptions, 7,029 yards, 60 touchdowns.
        Always deferential, Hirsch described himself as ''a busted down, retreaded halfback who happened to get lucky.''
        Hirsch played himself in the movie ''Crazylegs'' in 1953 and was in ''Unchained'' in 1955 and ''Zero Hour!'' in 1957. He had a daily radio show and a weekly television program in Los Angeles.
        He served as the assistant to the president of the Rams, Dan Reeves, and as director of athletics at Wisconsin from 1969 to 1987.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; a son; and a daughter.
      