
        Charles DeCarlo, an I.B.M. executive who became president of Sarah Lawrence College and led an overhaul of its finances and renovation of its campus, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Tessa DeCarlo said.
        Dr. DeCarlo, who had a doctorate in mathematics and was I.B.M.'s director of automation research, used his business acumen as head of Sarah Lawrence.
        From 1969 to 1981, he reworked the school's budget, reorganized its administrative structure and raised money to build new dormitories, an auditorium and the Esther Raushenbush Library, a modern, angular building honored by the American Institute of Architects.
        ''The whole campus was really transformed by him,'' said Barbara Kaplan, dean of the college.
        He managed that transformation with deference to Sarah Lawrence's identity as a liberal arts college, even as its peers drifted toward the career-oriented, Professor Kaplan said.
        Dr. DeCarlo wrote several articles on education and social change and a book on technology that emphasized the value of the liberal arts, ''Education in Business and Industry,'' with Ormsbee Robinson.
        Charles Raymond DeCarlo was born on May 7, 1921, in Pittsburgh to an Italian immigrant father and an Irish-American mother. He received a bachelor's degree in engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in 1943 and joined the Navy during World War II.
        After receiving his doctorate at the University of Pittsburgh, he taught mathematics there and at the American Studies Institute in Salzburg.
        At I.B.M., he developed ways for businesses to use computers, and he returned to business as a technical consultant after leaving Sarah Lawrence in 1981.
        In addition to his daughter Tessa, of Napa, Calif., Dr. DeCarlo is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two daughters, Rachel, of Albany, Calif., and Elisa, of Manhattan; a son, Dean, of Manhattan; and three sisters, Beatrice Snyder and Madeline Wyman, both of Pittsburgh, and Mercedes McCarroll, of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      