
        Celso Furtado, Brazil's most influential economist during the 20th century and an important theorist of methods of spurring economic growth in developing countries, died Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 84.
        His death was announced by Aloizio Mercadante, a senator of the governing Workers Party.
        Mr. Furtado gained prominence in Brazil in the 1950's after returning from several years of study in Paris, where he received a doctorate in economics from the Sorbonne. Inspired in part by the Argentine economist Raúl Prebisch, Mr. Furtado helped pioneer Latin American structuralism, which offered a distinct interpretation of poor economies.
        Brazil, according to Mr. Furtado, was hindered by its elite's adoption of foreign cultural standards, and its economic strength was anemic because of skewed distribution of income. His classic book, ''Economic Formation of Brazil,'' was published in 1959, ushering in an era of state-guided development programs. Mr. Furtado had the opportunity to try to put some of his ideas, then considered unconventional, to work in Brazil, becoming a member of the highest echelons of the country's gargantuan federal bureaucracy.
        A proponent of using federal resources to push through development, he was the superintendent in the late 1950's and early 1960's of Sudene, a federal institution created to encourage economic development in Brazil's drought-stricken, impoverished northeast.
        Mr. Furtado later became Brazil's planning minister, though he was removed from that post in 1964 when a military coup toppled the administration of João Goulart. It was one of the lowest points of his career.
        A Francophile like many postwar Brazilian intellectuals, Mr. Furtado sought exile in Paris, accepting a chair in economics at the Sorbonne after a short period teaching in the United States. A political thaw allowed him to return to Brazil more than a decade later.
        Celso Monteiro Furtado, born in 1920 in the interior town of Pombal in the state of Paraíba, often identified with the sertão, the vast stretch of arid backlands in the Brazilian northeast known for hardening its inhabitants. ''Dry like a cactus,'' was how Mr. Furtado described himself, even though he attended law school in playful Rio de Janeiro and made that city his home in Brazil.
        Mr. Furtado returned to high-ranking government jobs in the 1980's, serving as culture minister during the hyperinflationary tenure of President José Sarney. But he grew increasingly disenchanted with economic policy in Brazil as a new generation of economists sought to encourage growth by giving the private sector a greater role in the economy, particularly during the privatization wave of the 1990's. He spent much of that decade at his apartment in Paris.
        Even as his ideas fell out of favor in recent years, with the left-leaning government of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva embracing free-market policies, Mr. Furtado sought to influence policy. For the post to lead Brazil's national development bank, he supported a controversial nominee whose ideas recalled the days when protectionism was fashionable.
        His survivors include his wife, Rosa.
      