
        Gene Greif, whose witty collage and montage album-cover illustrations for CBS Records helped popularize the retro style of graphic design in the 1980's, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 50.
        The cause was complications from hepatitis C, which he contracted from a blood transfusion after a 1977 car accident, said James Biber, a friend.
        While on staff as an artist and designer from 1977 to 1980 at CBS Records, then known as an industry leader for innovative album art, Mr. Greif specialized in pop music and designed scores of album covers, including some for Phoebe Snow and the B-52's. But it was his cover for the Clash's album ''Give 'Em Enough Rope,'' with its stark flat colors, messy faux-Japanese lettering and eerie image of a slain cowboy being eaten by buzzards while an enigmatic figure on a horse nonchalantly observes the feast, that influenced other punk album graphics. It helped introduce a postmodern graphic style noted for the reprise of passé images and found art.
        Mr. Greif also designed a special Bloomingdale's shopping bag that combined elements of Cubism and Dada into a composition that is now in museum collections.
        ''Gene reinvigorated contemporary collage-based illustration in the late 70's to the present by combining visual and typographic puns with Surrealist and Constructivist influences,'' said the graphic designer Carin Goldberg, with whom he collaborated on book covers and jackets.
        Mr. Greif's recognizable style as an illustrator was also partly a result of his keen expertise with the airbrush, which allowed him to wed disparate images and objects seamlessly into a unified image.
        In addition to working on records, books and bags, in 1980 Mr. Greif was a staff designer at Rolling Stone magazine and an art director at Vogue and Working Woman magazines.
        Gene Howard Greif was born on Sept. 11, 1954, in Queens. He attended what is now the LaGuardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts in Manhattan, and graduated from the Cooper Union School of Art in 1976.
        He is survived by his partner, Gary Cruz of Manhattan; a brother, Barry, of Riverdale, the Bronx; and a sister, Brenda Appel of Manalapan, N.J.
      