
        Otis Dudley Duncan, a social scientist who used statistical tools and models to show sociological trends and later helped determine that education played a greater role than social status in determining a boy's future success, died on Nov. 16 in a hospice in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Eleanor Duncan Armstrong of State College, Pa.
        Dr. Duncan, who went by his middle name, Dudley, was an early proponent of what has been called quantitative sociology, searching for numerical comparisons to analyze social phenomena. He was best known for a 1967 book, ''The American Occupational Structure.'' In it, he and his co-author, Peter Blau, investigated the avenues for social standing to be passed on, from father to son.
        In their study, Dr. Duncan and Dr. Blau discovered that a parent's socioeconomic status had some influence on a son's future social standing, but that education was a stronger determining factor for success as an adult. They also found that the extent of schooling was only partly determined by a child's social origins.
        Robert M. Hauser, a research professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin, said it might now be widely accepted that ''freedom and opportunity are not necessarily tied to your social origins, but Dudley Duncan was the first to measure it.''
        In later work, Dr. Duncan pursued the question, considering factors of race and intelligence, and reported that blacks, unlike whites, were somewhat less likely to pass on any gains in social status. In 1984, he published another book, ''Notes on Social Measurement,'' which explains how to set up sociological studies to remove biases that may skew the results.
        His other interests included demographics and analyses of indicators of social well-being, of the roles of spouses and of public attitudes toward religion, abortion and euthanasia.
        Dr. Duncan was born in Nocona, Tex. He graduated from Louisiana State University and earned a master's degree from the University of Minnesota before receiving his doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1949.
        He taught at Pennsylvania State University and Wisconsin, then returned to the University of Chicago in 1951, where he was associate director of the Population Research and Training Center. Chicago appointed him as a professor of human ecology in 1960. From 1962 to 1973, Dr. Duncan moved to the University of Michigan. He later taught at the University of Arizona before joining the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 1984. He took emeritus status three years later and remained in Santa Barbara.
        Dr. Duncan was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. He was also president of the Population Association of America in 1968 and 1969.
        In addition to his daughter, from a previous marriage, Dr. Duncan is survived by his wife, Beatrice F. Duncan, an art historian, and two sisters, Barbara Doze, of Russell, Kan., and Mary Anne Stone, of Eastsound, Wash.
      