
        Don Kennedy, whose 22-year reign as basketball coach turned St. Peter's College in Jersey City into a national contender, died Oct. 26 at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 97.
        Kennedy lived with his son George in Garnerville, N.Y. His son Paul said his father had collapsed at home.
        From 1950 to 1972, Kennedy's teams at St. Peter's posted a 323-195 record, with five appearances in the National Invitation Tournament. His teams were fast breaking and high scoring. He was also the athletic director, and he was fired from both jobs when he refused a request by college administrators to give up one job or the other.
        Bob Leckie, who coaches St. Peter's now, played there for Kennedy.
        ''During practice then,'' Leckie said by telephone Tuesday,''he stood on the balcony like a dictator. I was really in fear of him. But later, when I started coaching, I saw a different side of him. At 95, he called me and said he wanted to commiserate. I had to look up the word. He wanted to help and he did. I think it helped keep him alive.''
        Kennedy started coaching at age 20 at New York Dental College. Later, he simultaneously coached two or three high schools, notably Regis in Manhattan. HisRegis team won the national schoolboy championship in 1948.
        John Wilber Kennedy was born April 25, 1907, in Brooklyn and was raised there and in Manhattan. He earned a degree from the Savage School for Physical Education, which was later taken over by New York University.
        After St. Peter's, he briefly coached a women's professional team. His prime concern became Camp St. Regis, a summer camp in East Hampton on Long Island that he owned and operated from 1944 to 1982.
        Kennedy's wife of 61 years, the former Gertrude Smith, died in 1996. He is survived by five sons, George, Don of New City, N.Y., Robert and Paul of East Hampton and Peter of Liditz, Pa.; three daughters, Rita McGovern of Arlington, Va., Mary Jo Kennedy of Garnerville and Kathleen Kennedy of East Hampton; 19 grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
        Fred Cranwell was the St. Peter's sports information director in Kennedy's era and is the director of publications now. He recalled how Kennedy's playing career at Savage ended.
        ''He played basketball with the Lou Gehrig All-Stars,'' Cranwell said. ''They played pros and got paid for it. During one game, Don looked up to the balcony and there was the Savage dean. That was the end of Don's amateur eligibility.''
      