
        Murray Schumach, a reporter who harvested rich stories from New York's neighborhoods and whose 48-year career at The New York Times also took him from the Orient to Hollywood, from the back rooms of City Hall to the gem-cutting sanctums of the diamond district, died on Saturday.
        He was 91 and died at his Manhattan apartment after a long illness, according to his wife, Isabel Mount.
        A Depression-era high school student and City College dropout who learned old-fashioned newspapering on the job at night as a scurrying police reporter, deadline rewriter and Rialto rover, Mr. Schumach was also a lone-wolf observer who rooted his stories in precise detail and tight characterization.
        He ranged out to cover the Korean War and the motion picture industry, but he never strayed far from his signature calling as a neighborhood storyteller with a life view shaped in the streets of Brownsville, the Brooklyn neighborhood where he was born.
        ''I'm not a specialist,'' Mr. Schumach said, declaring general assignment reporting, roaming the city at will, as ''the best job you could have on a newspaper.'' He celebrated the privilege of ''conveying to the world the happenings that you see.'' He smiled at the fun: ''You're basically the kid who used to run the streets yelling: 'Extra! Extra!'''
        Mr. Schumach walked the streets, sometimes for days at a time on a single story. He turned up irresistible back-street tales (''They Still Chute Coal, Don't They?'') and smoldering grievances like his 1970 exposé in an Italian-American section of Corona, Queens, where 69 homes were imperiously slated for bulldozing by City Hall to make room for a high school.
        He spent days listening to residents, plumbing for such details as the fact that 40 young men from the neighborhood died in World War II, leaving enough insurance to secure their parents' home ownership ''with the blood of their own sons.''
        Eventually, Corona became such a symbol of bureaucratic bullying that politicians retreated with apologies as Mr. Schumach peppered them with story after story dense with classic neighborhood frustration.
        The latter attraction was exactly what motivated Mr. Schumach to cycle and recycle through the urban hamlet beat across his career. He developed a method of peeling a neighborhood through patient interviews at churches and synagogues, police precincts, retail shops and, most of all, front porches.
        ''This is a very important part of life -- knowing you belong to something,'' Mr. Schumach liked to tell young reporters.
        Arthur Gelb, The Times's former managing editor who ran the city staff during Mr. Schumach's busiest years, said, ''Murray grew up in the Depression years and he understood the poor and could convey that beautifully to readers.''
        The same talent for listening to people was clear in such award-winning articles as Mr. Schumach's series on what he found to be the state's ''revolving door'' neglect of mentally ill patients who were turned out onto the city's streets to cut costs in the name of what he detailed as fictitious ''community-based'' care.
        In similar fashion, his five-year stint as the entertainment correspondent in Hollywood saw him pierce the McCarthy era's blacklist and disclose that filmmakers were in fact quietly employing some of the best talents thought to be ostracized as tainted by Communism.
        Whatever his beat, Mr. Schumach dipped prolifically into other areas in writing for the magazine and drama sections, specializing in profiles.
        He requested that the great jazz man Fats Waller be at his piano during an interview. (''He clowned, sang, bellowed; bounced around like a man possessed; made the piano talk in a dozen tongues.'')
        He sketched the young Arthur Miller at a moment of exhaustion during drama rewrites on the road, just days before ''Death of a Salesman'' seized Broadway. (''Mr. Miller's approach to writing and living is that of a good carpenter to cabinet-making. He is interested primarily in the fundamentals of structure and function.'')
        What Mr. Schumach relished most was doubling back on a fading neighborhood to find fresh life (''Ill Winds of War Have Blown Prosperity Into Coney Island''). He was not a performance writer treating an assignment like a personal scrim; rather, he delighted readers in the detail of what he had just learned, as in his anxious, make-or-break description of the cleaving of the 726-carat Jonker diamond.
        The West 47th Street diamond district was one of Mr. Schumach's haunts. He eventually wrote a book about it (''The Diamond People''), just as he wrote a book on censorship in his Hollywood years (''The Face on the Cutting Room Floor'').
        He also wrote definitive updates of New York for the Encyclopaedia Britannica and, restless in retirement and ever curious about his old City Hall beat, he worked briefly as a politician's spokesman.
        Mr. Schumach's copy was respected deep into the stories for moments of unforced witness -- ''the happenings that you see.'' In 1970, he flew to Cortland, N.Y., with a group of soldiers whose Christmas leave home from the Vietnam War was paid by their families. The reporter described the exultation of the night reunion by the runway, quoting participants and mentioning paper cups of Champagne, all the while leading to a most quiet fact: ''Soon, parents were content just to be touching their sons as they stood in the snow.''
        Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.
      