
        Leroy F. Aarons, a reporter and newspaper executive who became the founder and first president of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, died Sunday at a hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 70.
        He was in the hospital for treatment of bladder cancer when his heart failed, Charles Kaiser, a friend, said. He lived in Sebastopol, Calif.
        A defining moment in Mr. Aarons's career came in 1990, when he addressed the convention of the American Society of Newspaper Editors about the results of a survey of gay men and lesbians in newsrooms that the society had commissioned, concluding that ''I, as an editor and gay man, am proud of A.S.N.E. for having done this study.''
        While Mr. Aarons had told his family of his sexual orientation in 1978, and five years later told his colleagues at The Oakland Tribune, where he was a news executive, this was his first public acknowledgement of his homosexuality.
        The results of the survey of 250 journalists resonated widely. Pamela Strother, executive director of the gay journalists group, said yesterday: ''It was a turning point in the newspaper editors' industry. These issues had never been talked about publicly.''
        An overwhelming majority called newspapers' coverage of gay issues ''at best mediocre.'' Fewer than 60 percent of gays said they had told colleagues about their sexual orientation; fewer than 7 percent considered their news organizations good working environments for gays.
        The survey was repeated in 2000, this time including broadcast journalists. The number of gays who had made their sexual preference public had risen to more than 93 percent, according to the 2000 study, and nearly 28 percent considered their organization a good environment.
        Mr. Aarons's organization was founded four months after his speech, growing from 6 people in his living room to 1,200 members and 24 chapters around the country.
        ''In the 1990's, gay and lesbian journalists and gays and lesbians generally marched into the mainstream,'' Eric Newton, a historian at the Newseum, a museum about news gathering, in Arlington, Va., told The San Francisco Chronicle in 2000. ''Roy Aarons was at the head of the parade.''
        Mr. Aarons was born on Dec. 8, 1933, in the Bronx and grew up there. He graduated from Brown University and earned a master's degree from Columbia Journalism School. His jobs in journalism included 14 years as a national correspondent for The Washington Post, including stints as its bureau chief in New York and Los Angeles.
        In 1983, he joined The Oakland Tribune, where his posts included executive editor and senior vice president for news. He had earlier worked with Robert Maynard, who had bought The Tribune, at Mr. Maynard's Institute for Journalism Education, which trains and supports minority journalists.
        Mr. Aarons was president of the gay journalists' group from 1990 until 1997. In 1999, he became a visiting faculty member of the Annenberg School of Journalism at the University of Southern California and director of its program for study of sexual orientation issues.
        In 1995, he wrote ''Prayers for Bobby: A Mother's Coming to Terms With the Suicide of Her Gay Son'' (HarperCollins). He also wrote the libretto for ''Monticello,'' an opera about the affair between Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings.
        Mr. Aarons is survived by Joshua Boneh, his partner of 24 years.
      