
        Jack Sheinkman, the former president of the nation's largest union of clothing workers and a major strategist in one of labor's biggest victories, organizing the textile maker J. P. Stevens, died yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 77.
        The cause was pneumonia, family members said.
        Mr. Sheinkman was president of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union from 1987 to 1995. He developed a reputation as one of organized labor's leading internationalists, heading labor's efforts to help impoverished workers and embattled trade union leaders in Central America.
        In 1976, he helped to engineer a merger between his union and a smaller textile union that was running out of money in its efforts to unionize J. P. Stevens. Mr. Sheinkman pushed for the merger, figuring that a stronger, wealthier union would help win the Stevens campaign.
        J. P. Stevens, based in North Carolina, had been resisting union organizers since 1963. Thanks in large part to the merger, the union signed a contract with the company in 1980 on behalf of 4,000 workers.
        In an era when labor leaders were reluctant to defend leftist movements overseas, Mr. Sheinkman led labor's opposition to President Ronald Reagan's efforts to remove the leftist government of Nicaragua. He was highly critical of right-wing dictatorships in Central America.
        ''He had the courage to speak out about Central America,'' said Bruce Raynor, president of Unite, the successor union to Mr. Sheinkman's textile workers. ''He personally experienced talking to union leaders in Central America who were later assassinated.''
        Mr. Sheinkman was known for being able to both confront and cooperate. In the 1970's, he helped lead a 21-month strike and boycott against the Farah Manufacturing Company, honing labor's strategies to put pressure on companies through boycotts and other means. But in the 1980's and 1990's, he often sought to cooperate with management to help keep jobs in the United States.
        ''There was an empathy about him for his union people and also an understanding of the realities of the world,'' said Homi Patel, chief executive of Hartmarx, the men's clothing manufacturer, ''I found him to be tough, but very responsible.''
        Jacob Sheinkman, who was known as Jack, was born in the Bronx on Dec. 6, 1926, the son of Shaia and Bertha Sheinkman, who immigrated from Kiev in 1923. His father, an engraver, had fought with the Bolsheviks in the Russian Revolution. Family members said Mr. Sheinkman's interest in labor dated from his childhood involvement in the Workmen's Circle, a social democratic organization founded by Jewish immigrants.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Francis Johnson, whom he married in 1954; his brother, Shepard, of Bethesda, Md.; three sons, Joshua, of Silver Spring, Md.; Michael, of Thailand; and Mark, of New York City; and three grandchildren.
        He went to Evander Childs High School in the Bronx and then served in the Navy during World War II, rising to lieutenant in the Naval Reserve. He received a bachelor's degree from the Cornell University School of Industrial Labor Relations in 1948, and four years later earned a degree from Cornell's law school. He also received a certificate in economics from Oxford University.
        His labor career began as an organizer for the International Pulp, Sulphite and Paper Mill Workers. In 1953, he began working for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, and from 1958 to 1972 was its general counsel. He was the union's secretary-treasurer from 1972 to 1976.
        As the ranks of the nation's clothing unions shrank, Mr. Sheinkman led merger efforts to help the unions maintain their strength and finances. The merger of his union with the Textile Workers Union in 1975 formed the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union. He was its secretary-treasurer from 1976 to 1987.
        In 1995, with his union battered by the exodus of jobs overseas, he also engineered a merger between his union and the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He became president emeritus of the new, merged union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, later renamed Unite.
        From 1995 to 1998, Mr. Sheinkman was chairman of Americans for Democratic Action, the liberal advocacy group. He was a member of Cornell's board of trustees and of the Council on Foreign Relations and served on the President's Advisory Committee on Trade.
      