
        Former Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher, who commanded the Navy spy ship Pueblo when North Korea seized it in 1968, beginning 11 months of captivity and torture for the crew, died on Wednesday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 76.
        Mr. Bucher, who was widely known as Pete, his childhood nickname, had been in declining health for several years, said Capt. Nick Monroe of the Naval Reserve, a spokesman for the Navy, who said he knew no further details.
        The seizing of the slow, lightly armed Pueblo by North Korean gunboats on Jan. 23, 1968, was an international incident that caused the Navy anger and anguish. In giving up without firing a shot, Commander Bucher became the first skipper to surrender an American warship since the War of 1812.
        The Pueblo was in international waters off North Korea, monitoring ship movements and intercepting messages, when North Korean boats surrounded it. When the Pueblo did not surrender at once, it came under a cannon barrage that killed one crew member and wounded 10 others, including the skipper, who was hit in the legs by shrapnel.
        Despite his agony, he wrote in a book: ''My feelings were of an almost overwhelming need to retaliate by shooting back. But our .50-caliber machine guns were no match for 57-millimeter automatic cannons. . . . It was certain death to try to shoot back.''
        After the surrender, the men of the Pueblo were held in cement-block cells. They were regularly beaten and kicked and fed so little that some suffered long-lasting effects. The extent of their ordeal emerged when they were released just before Christmas 1968, some nearly blind from malnourishment, after signing confessions that they had ''spied in North Korean waters.''
        Mr. Bucher (pronounced BOO-ker) recalled that he weighed 127 pounds, compared with his normal 200.
        The United States condemned the confessions as forced and false. To effect the release, Washington had grudgingly issued a formal apology -- one that it repudiated after the crew was safely out of North Korea.
        It soon became clear that the ordeal of Commander Bucher was far from over. Top Navy officials were furious that more than 600 pounds of secret papers and electronic equipment had fallen into North Korean hands. And some high-ranking officers expressed an institutional humiliation that the Pueblo was becoming a tourist attraction in North Korea.
        After an eight-week inquiry in 1969, a board of five admirals recommended that the commander be court-martialed and that four other Pueblo officers be punished.
        The admirals betrayed a certain ambivalence. They were dismayed that Commander Bucher had given up without shooting back, even though they conceded that the Pueblo had just two machine guns. They also conceded that the commander had ''upheld morale in a superior manner'' while his men were captives.
        Navy Secretary John H. Chafee overruled the admirals' recommendations, declaring that the men of the Pueblo had suffered enough.
        Thereafter, Commander Bucher recalled in an interview in 1977, ''it became a difficult thing for the Navy to know exactly what to do with me.''
        He was assigned to desk duty, then helped organize the mining of North Vietnamese waters and, later, the removal of the mines. In 1970, he wrote ''Bucher: My Story'' (Doubleday) with Mark Rascovich.
        Commander Bucher retired in 1973.
        Born in Idaho and orphaned as a child, Lloyd Marvin Bucher was raised at Boys Town, Neb. At Boys Town, he told the priests that he wanted to be in the Navy. He majored in geology at the University of Nebraska and met his future wife, Rose Rohling, on a blind date. He was commissioned in the Navy in 1953.
        Besides his wife, surviving are two sons, Michael, of Southern California, and Mark, of Hawaii.
        Mr. Bucher spent his last years in Poway, Calif., near San Diego, where he lived in a secluded ranch house. He grew avocados, studied art and painted watercolors.
        Some members of the Pueblo crew said over the years that Pete Bucher had been a difficult commander. But others said he was a fine leader they would follow anywhere.
        ''I simply don't know where he got the strength and courage,'' Stu Russell, who served under him and is president of the Pueblo Veteran's Association, told The Associated Press in San Diego on Thursday.
        Mr. Bucher always insisted that the Navy had never adequately planned for the possible capture of the Pueblo and that the vessel did not even have an efficient paper-shredding machine. As for what he went through in those 11 months in North Korea, he said in 1977, ''It will be with me for the rest of my days.''
      