
        David Brudnoy, an iconoclastic but urbane radio talk show host whose thoughtful treatment of politics and culture made him one of New England's most listened-to radio personalities for nearly three decades, died Thursday evening after a yearlong battle with skin cancer. He was 64.
        He died at Massachusetts General Hospital, his station, WBZ-AM, announced. On Wednesday he had told the listeners to his show that his cancer had spread to his liver and kidneys and that he knew his death was imminent.
        ''My head is completely accepting of this,'' Mr. Brudnoy said on the air from his hospital bed. ''I am absolutely ready.''
        To many, Mr. Brudnoy, a self-described libertarian whose conservative perspective could be heard weekly for nearly 20 years in 38 states and Canada, had become a symbol of graceful resilience. In 1994, after collapsing and nearly dying of viral pneumonia, Mr. Brudnoy revealed publicly for the first time that he had AIDS and was gay.
        ''It was the only time I ever saw him afraid,'' said Jon Keller, a friend of Mr. Brudnoy's and a former producer of his show. ''He was afraid that the exposure of his homosexuality might damage his career. He asked me, 'Do you think they'll still love me if they know I'm gay?'''
        Not only was Mr. Brudnoy compassionately embraced by his varied audience, Mr. Keller said, but he was also credited by many gay activists ''with a sea-change moment in local attitudes in homosexuality.''
        At the time, Mr. Brudnoy said he hoped he would live five more years, but he bounced back enough to do more than just continue his three-hour show. He also taught classes at Boston University and other colleges, become a mentor to members of a fraternity at Emerson College, established a fund for AIDS research and wrote a memoir, ''Life Is Not a Rehearsal'' (Doubleday, 1996), which detailed some of his sexual exploits and his struggle with H.I.V.
        In September 2003, he was told he had Merkel cell carcinoma, a type of skin cancer, and two months later he took a hiatus from his show to undergo radiation and chemotherapy treatment. He returned to the air last March, his voice weaker but his enthusiasm still evident.
        ''He got 10 bonus years -- he certainly made the most of his time,'' said Kevin Myron, another friend and former producer of Mr. Brudnoy's.
        An only child, Mr. Brudnoy has no immediate survivors. Born in Minneapolis, he majored in Japanese studies at Yale and went on to get a master's degree in Far Eastern studies from Harvard and a second master's degree and a doctorate in history from Brandeis University.
        Mr. Brudnoy was known for being the stylistic antithesis of the ranting, dogmatic talk radio host and for his thorough preparation for his interviews, with subjects ranging from Jesse Ventura to David Halberstam to Mr. Brudnoy's friend William F. Buckley. He made it a point to read the books written by his guests.
        Mr. Brudnoy, who in recent years had conducted his radio show from his book- and art-filled apartment in this city's Back Bay neighborhood, where he sometimes mixed drinks for his guests, was viewed affectionately by politicians like Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston, Democrats with whom he often disagreed, and Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a Republican. Mr. Brudnoy recently bet Mr. Menino a steak dinner that the mayor could not have a pothole fixed in 24 hours. He lost the bet, and, when he realized he was dying, asked Mr. Meade to make sure to take the mayor out to dinner for him.
        Correction:  December 14, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about David Brudnoy, a talk radio host in Boston, omitted the given name and affiliation of a friend Mr. Brudnoy asked, from his sickbed, to pay off a steak dinner bet to Mayor Thomas M. Menino. He was Peter Meade, executive vice president of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts.
        Correction:  December 14, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about David Brudnoy, a talk radio host in Boston, omitted the given name and affiliation of a friend Mr. Brudnoy asked, from his sickbed, to pay off a steak dinner bet to Mayor Thomas M. Menino. He was Peter Meade, executive vice president of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts.
      