
        Peter Bedrick, former publisher of Schocken Books, who later founded two publishing companies, Peter Bedrick Books and Enchanted Lion Books, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76.
        The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, said his wife, Muriel Bedrick.
        Howard Peter Bedrick was born in New York City on April 14, 1928, the elder son of Max Bedrick, who owned a pharmacy in Rockefeller Center, and Gertrude Saffer Bedrick.
        After graduating from the Horace Mann School for Boys in 1945 and receiving a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Pennsylvania in 1948, Mr. Bedrick worked at his father's drugstore off and on, at the same time earning a Bachelor of Science degree from Columbia in 1955.
        When the drugstore was sold in 1960, Mr. Bedrick traveled and studied writing and philosophy. In 1963 he joined the sales staff of Schocken Books, a publishing house founded in Germany in 1931 (as part of a successful department store chain) and devoted to publishing Judaica, including the work of Kafka and S.Y. Agnon, who later won the Nobel Prize in literature.
        When Mr. Bedrick joined the American branch of Schocken, the house was prospering because of a postwar revival of interest in Judaica and because of its decision to expand into books of general interest, especially in the social sciences. Mr. Bedrick rose to the position of executive vice president and publisher and was responsible for two sleeper hits in 1981: ''Masquerade,'' by Kit Williams, a treasure-hunt fantasy about a rabbit's misadventures, and the inspirational ''When Bad Things Happen to Good People,'' by Harold S. Kushner, which both became best sellers.
        In 1961 Mr. Bedrick married Muriel L. Gundersen. He left Schocken in 1983 and with his wife founded Peter Bedrick Books, which emphasized children's illustrated nonfiction, especially books on history, art and science. In 1998 the house was sold to the Tribune Company and in 2000 to McGraw-Hill; the Bedricks stayed on as consultants.
        After leaving Peter Bedrick Books, the couple founded Enchanted Lion Press in 2003 to publish nonfiction books for children, young adults and adults. Their daughter Claudia joined them as managing editor, and their daughter Abigail as sales and marketing manager.
        In addition to his wife and his daughters Claudia and Abigail, Mr. Bedrick is survived by another daughter, Brooke; his brother, Melvin; and five grandchildren.
      