
        F. Darrin Perry, who as design director of ESPN Magazine in the late 1990's introduced streamlined typography and cinematic pictorial approaches to appeal to a new generation of sports fans, died on Nov. 25 at his home in San Francisco He was 39.
        The San Francisco medical examiner's office said an investigation was pending, with the results to be announced in 14 to 16 weeks.
        By 1998, when Mr. Perry designed the magazine's format, the ESPN sports television network had raised its visibility through novel advertising graphics that included contemporary conceits like blurred and overlapping type, color-saturated images and surreal illustrations. While not exactly copying those ads, Mr. Perry also introduced playful typography and witty photographs that underscored the editorial concept that ESPN was something of a Rolling Stone of sports magazines, in which athletes were presented as rock stars.
        ESPN's larger-than-usual format had more visual impact than its competitors' publications, and with Mr. Perry's unconventional emphasis on big and dramatic photos it quickly drew more attention. He also used a film-strip approach of many small photos moving across a page or two pages, giving the magazine a TV-like air.
        In its first year of publication, ESPN Magazine won the National Magazine Award for Design.
        Floyd Darrin Perry was born on April 9, 1965, in Durham, N.C. After studies at the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, he earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the Parsons School of Design in New York City.
        He started his career as a designer at Condé Nast Traveler and later became creative director of design at Broadband Sports Interactive. Before moving to ESPN he was an art editor at Sports Illustrated and creative director of Wired, which he redesigned.
        Mr. Perry is survived by his mother, Pat Dennis Isaacs of Arden, N.C.; his father, Floyd E. Perry, and stepmother, Amy, of Durham; a sister, Debra Egan of Orlando, Fla.; and his partner, Jonathan Manzo of San Francisco.
        Correction:  December 15, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about F. Darrin Perry, an innovative magazine designer, misstated the sequence of his jobs. He was art director of Wired magazine at his death, not before he worked at ESPN magazine.
        Correction:  December 20, 2004, Monday  An obituary on Dec. 12 about F. Darrin Perry, an innovative magazine designer, misstated the sequence of his jobs. He was at Wired magazine at his death, not before he worked at ESPN magazine. A correction in this space on Wednesday misstated the title he held at Wired. He was creative director, not art director.
      