
        Allen C. Haskell, a nurseryman with an artist's eye, died on Tuesday in a hospital in New Bedford, Mass. He was 69.
        The death came after a short illness, a family friend, Eugene R. Bertrand Jr., said.
        His nursery, Allen C. Haskell & Son Horticulturists, with its early-18th-century house set among gardens and cobblestone walkways and its peacocks that strut among the rare trees, has for 50 years attracted serious gardeners searching for rare plants and the knowledge Mr. Haskell was always willing to share.
        ''He really inspired a lot of us,'' said Kim Tripp, the senior vice president of horticulture at the New York Botanical Garden. ''People made pilgrimages to his nursery.''
        The eight-acre nursery is packed with rare specimens, like the European hornbeam hedge rising over a stone wall, the 250-year-old American dogwood and the Chinese dove tree. There is a world-famous hosta collection and topiaries that attracted the attention of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands.
        ''She sent her head gardener over here, and we picked out a couple hundred topiaries,'' said Mr. Bertrand, the nursery's manager and Mr. Haskell's longtime companion.
        Mr. Haskell, a lifelong resident of New Bedford and a graduate of Bristol County Agricultural School, often took the top awards of the New England Flower Show, which now gives an award in his name every spring.
        ''There was Allen, and then there was everybody else,'' said Tom Strangfeld, the director of horticulture at the Massachusetts Horticultural Society. ''I'll never forget a crab apple tree he forced into bloom and surrounded with this enormous collection of azaleas. It was like a painting at the Museum of Fine Arts.''
        Mr. Haskell did not like to travel farther than Philadelphia. The world came to him, including Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who asked him to help with the wedding of her daughter, Caroline, in Hyannis Port.
        ''Caroline loved cosmos, so we sent whiskey barrels of them for the church steps,'' Mr. Bertrand said. ''No Tasmanian orchids.'' Martha Stewart was also a frequent visitor, and Mr. Haskell often appeared on her show.
        He was never condescending. ''I'm sure we were still saying 'cotton easter' when we first met him,'' said the garden designer Wayne Winterrowd, referring to the shrub cotoneaster (pronounced ko-to-nee-AS-ter). ''But did he correct us? No. He gave us a seedling of a rare one, growing in a clump of violets.''
        The family will still carry on the nursery and design business.
        Mr. Haskell is survived by his wife, Ellena Brightman Haskell of Fairhaven, Mass; a son, David Allen Haskell, of New Bedford; two daughters, Rebecca Akers, of West Fargo, N.D., and Felicia Cruz, of New Bedford; a sister, Nancy Rua, of Florida; 10 grandchildren; and Mr. Bertrand.
      