
        Stephen A. Girard Jr., an industrialist and automaker who helped introduce the Jeep, formerly a generic military transport, to civilians around the world, died on Nov. 27 in Napa, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Napa.
        His death was confirmed by his family.
        Mr. Girard spent his entire career with the Kaiser Corporation, a conglomerate of shipbuilders, aluminum producers, chemical makers and aircraft manufacturers, among other businesses. He led several of its companies during his tenure.
        In the 1960's, he was president and chief executive of the Kaiser Jeep Corporation, which at the time held the trademark rights to call its vehicle a Jeep. The Jeep's brisk sales at home and abroad pushed competitors like Ford Motor to produce similar vehicles. Kaiser sold the company to American Motors in 1970; the Jeep brand is now owned by DaimlerChrysler.
        As the chief executive of the Kaiser Industries Corporation, a real estate holding company that at one time owned most of the Kaiser companies, Mr. Girard led the holding company through its final stages of liquidation. Many of the Kaiser businesses went on to operate independently. Mr. Girard then became chief executive of Kaiser Resources, a coal-mining concern, and was chairman, president and chief executive of the Kaiser Steel Company in the early 1980's.
        Mr. Girard was born on Sept. 18, 1913, in Hoquiam, Wash., and attended the University of Washington.
        When he was 25, he joined Kaiser as a construction superintendent overseeing work on the Grand Coulee Dam, one of the country's largest concrete structures. He later directed the assembly of merchant ships and other vessels at Kaiser Shipyards, in Vancouver, Wash., during World War II.
        After his retirement, he founded the Girard Winery in the Napa Valley.
        He is survived by his wife of 68 years, the former Laurina Banks; three daughters, Julie Miller of Orcas Island, Wash.; Caron Avery of Manhattan; Stepper LeBoutillier of Perrysburg, Ohio; a son, Steve Girard of Palm Springs, Fla.; a sister, Margaret Girard Smith of Lafayette, Calif.; 10 grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      