
        George S. Schairer, an aerodynamics expert at Boeing whose design innovations became standard on virtually all types of military and passenger jet planes, died on Oct. 28 in Kirkland, Wash. He was 91 and lived in Kenmore, Wash.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said a son, George E. Schairer.
        Toward the end of World War II, Mr. Schairer was part of a team of scientists responsible for rummaging through technical data at German research sites vacated by retreating troops. He found test results supporting the usefulness of a wing design that had recently been considered at Boeing, where he was chief of aerodynamics.
        Upon returning from Germany, Mr. Schairer led Boeing's engineers in designing large planes with wings angled back about 35 degrees, rather than extending straight out from the body of the plane .
        Such swept wings, considered odd at the time, prevented the development of shock waves that imperiled newly available jet planes as they approached the speed of sound. The first large swept-wing jet, the B-47 Stratojet, had a top speed of 600 m.p.h., about 200 m.p.h. faster than anything Boeing had built before World War II.
        The B-52, an even larger bomber, soon followed and is still used by the Air Force. By 1958 , Boeing had introduced the 707, the first passenger jet.
        In addition to putting swept wings on all future Boeing designs, Mr. Schairer and his engineers placed jet engines in pods beneath the wings, an arrangement that is now common and one that helps prevent engines from overheating, among other advantages.
        From 1959 to 1973, as vice president for research and development, Mr. Schairer oversaw Boeing's technical and aerodynamics staff, the engineers who conducted structural analyses and tested a plane's flight controls, hydraulics and electrical systems. (The project engineers, led by another Boeing visionary, Maynard Pennell, would then build the plane.)
        George Swift Schairer was born in Wilkinsburg, Pa., on May 19, 1913. He received a bachelor's degree in engineering from Swarthmore in 1934 and a master's degree in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1935.
        After working for Bendix Aircraft and Consolidated Aircraft, he joined Boeing as chief of its aerodynamics unit in 1939. He then helped develop and test the 307 Stratoliner, the first plane to maintain normal air pressure throughout its confines, as well as two bombers widely used by the Allied Forces during World War II: the B-17, called the Flying Fortress; and the B-29 Superfortress.
        He retired as corporate vice president for research in 1978.
        In 1957, he received the Daniel Guggenheim Medal, whose previous recipients included Orville Wright, Charles Lindbergh and William Boeing. He received the Spirit of St. Louis Medal in 1957 and was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1968. He received an honorary doctorate in engineering from Swarthmore in 1958.
        In addition to his son George E., of Seattle, he is survived by his wife of 69 years, Pauline; two daughters, Mary E. Richards, of Yuma, Ariz., and Sally Cantrell, of Lake Oswego, Ore.; a son, John O., of Sherman Oaks, Calif.; a brother, Robert, of Los Angeles; a sister, Julia Read, of Prairie Village, Kan.; 8 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 17, 2004, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about George S. Schairer, an aeronautical engineer for Boeing whose swept-wing designs became standard in jet planes, misidentified the first commercial jetliner. It was the British De Havilland Comet, not the Boeing 707.
      