
        Paul Edwards, a professor of philosophy who edited The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, an enduring and authoritative reference work covering topics from ''the absolute'' to Zoroastrianism, a Persian religion, died on Dec. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause apparently was heart failure, said a friend, Aleksander Shlahet.
        The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, first published by Macmillan in 1967 and still in print, was written by more than 500 contributors, many of them prominent philosophers. It devotes eight volumes to nearly 1,500 theories, thinkers and ideologies of all eras and continents.
        Professor Edwards, a longtime instructor at the New School and at Brooklyn College, wanted the encyclopedia to be comprehensive even at the risk of creating controversy. The entries related to existentialism, for example, ''point out confusion and lack of clarity in some of the ideas,'' he told The New York Times upon the encyclopedia's publication.
        A wry and caustic critic of religion, he wrote many of the entries on atheists. ''It seems to be agreed that an atheist can be a good man, and that his oaths and promises are no less trustworthy than those of other people,'' Professor Edwards wrote.
        In 1957, he edited a compilation of essays by Bertrand Russell, including ''Why I Am Not a Christian,'' which became the anthology's title. One of his own books, ''Reincarnation: A Critical Examination'' (1996), criticized religious beliefs in rebirth
        ''There is no God, there is no life after death, Jesus was a man, and, perhaps most important, the influence of religion is by and large bad,'' he wrote in the current issue of Free Inquiry, a magazine about secular humanism, a school of thought that emphasizes values based on experience rather than religion.
        Professor Edwards was born to Jewish parents in Vienna on Sept. 2, 1923. His family immigrated to Australia during Hitler's rise to power, and he received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Melbourne. He later moved to Manhattan and, in 1951, received a doctorate in philosophy from Columbia.
        He taught at New York University in the 1960's, at Brooklyn College from 1966 to 1986, and at what is now the New School from the 1960's to the late 1990's.
        ''Heidegger's Confusions,'' a collection of Professor Edwards's scholarly articles, was published last month by Prometheus. ''God and Philosophers,'' also to be published by Prometheus, is a chronicle of various thinkers' approaches to the question of God.
        No immediate family members survive.
      