
        Alexander Marshack, a self-taught anthropological researcher who first interpreted certain Stone Age artifacts as primitive calendars, advancing the notion that prehistoric man was more inventive than previously thought, died on Dec. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Elaine.
        In the 1960's, using novel scientific techniques, Mr. Marshack analyzed small incisions in plaques of bone, in southwest France, which dated from the Paleolithic Period, about 30,000 years ago, in the latter part of the last ice age.
        While most anthropologists and archaeologists interpreted the markings as decorative, Mr. Marshack found that the notches were carved at varying times using a variety of tools. Their groupings and sequences also seemed to record the waxing and waning of the moon. He concluded that the plaques were lunar calendars -- that humans were keeping records 25,000 years before the beginning of formal writing and almost 20,000 years before the start of agriculture.
        ''It was a whole new interpretation and a whole new perspective,'' said Ian Tattersall, curator in the anthropology division of the American Museum of Natural History. Though Paleolithic man was the first modern human in the evolutionary sense, he had been viewed as a brutish hunter-gatherer largely incapable of such advanced thinking.
        Though Mr. Marshack was a journalist by training, his work earned him a position as a research associate at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard in 1963, and his maverick findings attracted widespread interest when they were published in Science in November 1964.
        His methods, including the use of high-powered microscopes and ultraviolet light to detect cave paintings obscured by calcite, have become common. ''Basically, he's one of the giants on whose shoulders the current generation of researchers stands,'' Mr. Tattersall said.
        Mr. Marshack later traveled to dozens of countries to study similar materials in caves and museum collections. His studies culminated in his book ''The Roots of Civilization,'' published by McGraw-Hill in 1972.
        Some researchers criticized his lack of formal training and said his analyses overreached: ''Any irregular sequence of numbers could be read as a lunar calendar,'' said one scholarly review of his book. But the theory that they were notations, if not calendars, has generally prevailed and over the course of two decades has become part of a larger narrative that depicts Stone Age man as capable of keeping records.
        ''These visual symbol systems were not yet writing, but they did constitute a highly developed symbolic literacy,'' he wrote in 1986 in an essay in The New York Times. ''When writing finally did develop, it made use of the already evolved and developed imaging and abstracting capacities used during the ice age.''
        Mr. Marshack was born in the Bronx on April 4, 1918, and received a bachelor's degree in journalism from City College. He worked as a writer and producer for radio and television and later as a photojournalist for Life magazine and other publications.
        His interest in the Paleolithic Period developed while he was researching the origins of man's fascination with space for a book on the United States space program. ''He was so intrigued that he left the space age and went back to the ice age,'' his wife said.
        He is survived by his wife. A previous marriage was annulled.
      