
        John D. Deardourff, who helped pioneer the fledgling postwar profession of political consulting and who served a string of prominent Republican clients, died Friday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said Douglas L. Bailey, his former business partner.
        Their firm, Bailey, Deardourff & Associates, founded in 1967, dispensed political advice, produced commercials and engineered campaigns over a quarter century that defined the golden age of moderate Republicanism. Their clients included Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York, Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois and John C. Danforth, the former Missouri senator who recently resigned as delegate to the United Nations.
        Along with Joe Napolitan, Matt Reese and Bob Squier, Mr. Deardourff and Mr. Bailey were considered the fathers of political consulting, a pursuit that was in its infancy in the 1960's.
        Bailey, Deardourff's signature clients were moderate Republican governors like Dick Thornburgh in Pennsylvania, William G. Milliken in Michigan and Thomas H. Kean in New Jersey, men whom Mr. Deardourff admired for their pragmatism. At one point in the late 1970's, the firm was advising 11 of the country's 19 Republican governors.
        Mr. Deardourff's chief advice to candidates was to be themselves, to run as who they were, not who they thought they should be. He saw his job as ''parting the curtains'' and allowing voters to see the candidates, Mr. Bailey said.
        ''When campaigns became so negative and the process became so dominated by money, in the mid-to-late 80's, that was the time both of us became less comfortable,'' Mr. Bailey said. By then, too, the moderates with whom they were aligned were becoming an endangered species.
        John Dudley Deardourff was born in 1933 in Greenville, Ohio, where his father was the editor of The Daily Advocate and his mother a registered nurse. He graduated from Wabash College in Indiana and earned a master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
        Mr. Deardourff met Mr. Bailey in 1964 when both worked on Governor Rockefeller's presidential campaign. With Robert Price, an aide to Mr. Lindsay, Mr. Deardourff helped Rockefeller win the Republican primary in just one state, Oregon. Their winning strategy was the slogan ''He cared enough to come.''
        Rockefeller failed to stop the conservative Barry Goldwater from snaring the Republican presidential nomination in 1964, and in 1968 he wanted to stop Richard M. Nixon from getting the party's nomination. His vehicle was Gov. George W. Romney of Michigan; Rockefeller dispatched Mr. Deardourff to work at Romney's side in an unsuccessful effort to deny Nixon the nomination.
        Mr. Deardourff and Mr. Bailey went on to advise President Gerald R. Ford in his race against Jimmy Carter in 1976. The contest marked one of their few major losses, but it was nonetheless hailed as a strong campaign. Bailey, Deardourff had taken control of Mr. Ford's advertising right after the Republican National Convention in August 1976, when Mr. Ford, who had damaged himself by pardoning President Nixon after Watergate, was trailing Mr. Carter by 20 points in the polls.
        By Election Day, they had narrowed the gap to two points, chiefly with commercials using ordinary Americans who questioned Mr. Carter's lack of national experience.
        The campaign was also notable for its positive approach.
        ''We said to ourselves, what the country knows about Gerald Ford is that he pardoned Nixon; let's tell them more, let's give them a view of Jerry Ford, the man, that's upbeat,'' Mr. Bailey said. Thus was born the campaign theme song ''I'm Feeling Good About America.''
        Mr. Deardourff was devoted to nonprofit causes, including the Children's Defense Fund and the League of Conservation Voters.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. His survivors include his wife of 34 years, Elisabeth Griffith, headmistress of the Madeira School in McLean, and four children.
      