
        Philippe de Broca, a surefooted comedic director of the 1960's New Wave in French filmmaking, who created gems like the frenetic adventure ''That Man From Rio'' (1964) and the anti-war ''King of Hearts'' (1966), died on Friday in Neuilly-sur-Seine, outside Paris. He was 71.
        The death was announced by the French minister of culture, Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. de Broca broke into the first rank of moviemaking after serving as an assistant to two of its French masters, Claude Chabrol and François Truffaut. He made his debut with ''The Love Games'' in 1960. The end of his career came 44 years and 39 films later with ''Vipère au Poing'' (''Viper in the Fist''), which, according to French news reports, has sold more than one million tickets since it opened in October.
        ''The Love Games'' was an auspicious start, a comedy starring a cute heroine, Geneviève Cluny and a goofy suitor, Jean-Pierre Cassel.
        Mr. de Broca followed its success with ''Le Farceur'' (''The Joker''), with Mr. Cassel and Anouk Aimée, and ''Cartouche,'' with a swashbuckling Jean-Paul Belmondo and Claudia Cardinale, his lady love, cavorting in rustic 18th-century France.
        ''That Man From Rio'' left no doubt about Mr. de Broca's mastery of witty farce, with Mr. Belmondo as a daring adventurer in globe-circling pursuit of a priceless museum statuette and Françoise Dorléac and Jean Servais caught in the nonstop action.
        ''Call it a comedy thriller or a tongue-in-cheek travesty on all the archaeological mystery-adventure movies and all the 'chase' films ever made,'' the New York Times critic Bosley Crowther wrote. ''Virtually every complication, every crisis involving imminent peril, that has ever been pulled in the movies, especially the old silent ones, is pulled in this.''
        ''King of Hearts,'' by contrast, was funny, but dark and sad all the same. In the end, Pvt. Charles Plumpick, portrayed by Alan Bates, stands, stark naked and holding a birdcage, at the gate of a madhouse, seeking permanent asylum from the real world. Vincent Canby of The Times, called it an ''extravagant and highly comic morality play'' whose point was ''that the certified insane of this world are a lot less lunatic than the madmen who persist in making lunatic wars.''
        His final work, ''Vipère,'' was Mr. de Broca's adaptation of a novel about the Spartan boyhood of the author Hervé Bazin.
        Philippe Claude Alex de Boca was born in Paris on March 15, 1933, and learned his art at the National School of Photography and Cinematography. He apprenticed to the directors Henri Decoin and Georges Lacombe before his time with Chabrol and Truffaut, under whom he earned his spurs as assistant director for two of their classic films of 1959, ''Les Cousins'' by Chabrol and Truffaut's ''400 Blows.''
        Throughout his career, he often served as his own scriptwriter or co-writer, starting with ''The Love Games,'' through ''That Man in Rio'' to ''Vipère au Poing.''
      