
        Pierre Berton, a sometimes provocative journalist who became the most popular historian in Canada and a well-known television personality, died on Tuesday in Toronto. He was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, Mr. Berton's agent and television producer, Elsa Franklin, said.
        For many years a new book by Mr. Berton was as inevitable in autumn as falling leaves. Unusually prolific, Mr. Berton wrote more than 50 books, was host of radio and television shows, contributed newspaper and magazine columns, was a magazine editor and appeared as a quiz-show panelist for 37 years.
        Mr. Berton's history books covered a wide range of topics, from Canadian troops who fought in World War I to the Klondike gold rush and the building of the first transcontinental railroad in Canada. They also proved to be unusually popular. In 1972 Mr. Berton had four books on Canadian best-seller lists simultaneously. Two years later his book about the Canadian Pacific Railway, ''The National Dream,'' formed the basis of a television mini-series.
        Some reviewers and academic historians criticized Mr. Berton's books as lacking in critical analysis or new insights into past events. But other historians say those criticisms were beside the point.
        ''The one thing I admire and the reason I try to emulate Pierre Berton is that he was read,'' said Desmond Morton, a professor of history at McGill University in Montreal and an author. ''He believed in narrative history, one damned thing after another. Many of my colleagues don't think that is history, which is why no one reads them.''
        Mr. Berton's first best seller, ''Klondike: The Life and Death of the Last Great Gold Rush,'' appeared in 1958. Mr. Berton was born in Dawson City, Yukon, at the mouth of the Klondike River. After studying at the University of British Columbia, serving with the Canadian military in World War II and starting a newspaper career in Vancouver, Mr. Berton moved to Toronto in 1947. By 31 he had become the managing editor of Maclean's magazine.
        Mr. Berton's relationship with Maclean's was not always smooth. In 1963, while a columnist, he wrote that parents must accept that teenagers will engage in sexual activity. After church groups and others led a campaign against the magazine, Mr. Berton was fired. He also used journalism to promote Canadian nationalism, a cause that did not find widespread support until the late 1960's.
        Despite all his writing, Mr. Berton is probably best known for his television appearances. His white sideburns and bow ties became an integral part of ''Front Page Challenge,'' a Canadian show in which Mr. Berton and other panelists tried to guess the identities of hidden guests who were linked to news events.
        ''He much preferred writing to television,'' Ms. Franklin said. ''But he knew television was the way books were sold.''
        Mr. Berton is survived by his wife, Janet, and their children: Penny, Pamela, Patricia, Peter, Paul, Peggy, Perri and Eric.
        He was still writing at the time of his death, as a weekly columnist for The Globe and Mail in Toronto. He made his final television appearance in October on a satirical show in which he discussed his 40 years of recreational marijuana use and demonstrated techniques for rolling marijuana cigarettes. He suggested that his books could provide an ideal source of paper.
        Correction:  December 11, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the Canadian historian and broadcaster Pierre Berton on Dec. 3 misstated his satirical suggestion for a use of his many books. In a television appearance in October, deriding Canada's anti-marijuana laws, he suggested using them as a rolling surface for marijuana cigarettes, not as rolling paper. The obituary also misstated his birthplace. It was Whitehorse, Yukon, not Dawson City.
      