
        Jacques Francais, a dealer in classical string instruments who with a glance could authenticate a Stradivarius worth millions and then often match it with its next player, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Beatrice, said.
        Mr. Francais's accomplishments included assembling, in 1971, an exhibition at Lincoln Center of antique French violins that had never been shown outside France and that had not been seen there in public since the Exposition Universelle in 1900.
        In 1985, he completed a 20-year hunt for two violins, a viola and a cello that Antonio Stradivari had made to be played together but that had been sold separately.
        And in 1996 he brokered the $4 million sale of the cellist Emanuel Feuermann's instrument, made by Stradivari in 1730.
        For years Mr. Francais (pronounced frahn-SAY) presided over an atmospheric workshop near Carnegie Hall, complete with fireplace, venerable paintings, an enormous window and almost priceless violins scattered about.
        But Mr. Francais knew that every violin had a price, and he knew what that price was, or at least the price he wanted to pay or receive. Each year in the 1980's and 90's he negotiated the sale of 6 to 10 violins made by the great masters Antonio Stradivari and Joseph Guarnerius del Gesu. That number was estimated to be as many as half the world sales.
        He also brought a marksman's eye to spotting the fakes that so many people showed him in hope of receiving his prized certification. After a brief look, Mr. Francais almost always said ''No,'' at no charge.
        ''Then I am free to tell them that my opinion is final, and they cannot ask questions,'' he said in 1977.
        For all his business acumen, it was the artistic side of his ethereal profession that Mr. Francais held dearest, Mrs. Francais said. He belonged to a 200-year line of luthiers, as makers, restorers and dealers of string instruments are called, and enjoyed nothing so much as matching a great musician with a great instrument.
        Isaac Stern wrote on a photo on Mr. Francais's desk: ''For Jacques -- whose vast knowledge is matched only by his compassion for fiddlers' foibles -- he ministers lovingly to our needs and we are grateful.''
        Jacques Pierre Francais was born in Paris on July 3, 1923. One of his grandfathers was Henri Français, official violin maker to the Paris Conservatory; the other was the violin and cello dealer Albert Caressa. The two jointly owned one of the world's best violin-making and repair shops. Mr. Francais's godfather was the violinist Jacques Thibaud.
        Mr. Francais (who omitted the accent in his last name in this country) wanted to be an artist, his wife said, but his father, Émile, demanded that he stay in the family's craft. He worked as an apprentice in Mirecourt, the historical center of French violin-making. He also apprenticed in Mittenwald, the German equivalent.
        In World War II he served with the Free French ski troops and then joined the occupation force in Vienna, where his knowledge of French, German and English proved useful.
        Mr. Francais then came to New York to apprentice with Rembert Wurlitzer, who ran the most complete violin restoration shop in the United States. After a year he returned to Paris to apprentice with his father, who drilled him intensively on recognizing the origin of violins.
        In 1948 Mr. Francais came to New York on a one-way ticket with 20 violins, 4 cellos and 24 bows to sell on consignment, as well as fine etchings, also on consignment, and $50.
        Mr. Francais went on to own Jacques Francais Rare Violins Inc., which employed a dozen top experts. People brought more and more important instruments to be inspected or repaired by the company's experts, which further sharpened their expertise.
        Mr. Francais considered the wood used to make and repair fine violins -- maple and spruce -- very important, and knew and tracked the old European violin-makers as they planned to retire so he could bid for their wood.
        He said he believed that the secret to the great Italian violins was a slow-drying varnish used in the 17th century, though some scientists dispute that theory.
        Mr. Francais met Beatrice Mathews when she went to his shop with a violin. Both were married, but when they met after they had both become single again, he greeted her using the description of her violin, ''red Scarampella.'' She became his third wife.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Francais is survived by a daughter, Isabelle, who lives in Manhattan and the south of France, and a granddaughter.
        Mrs. Francais would not say how many Stradivarius violins her husband left behind. For him, the interesting question was always where he would find the next one.
        ''It is not the money,'' he told a reporter. ''It is the hunt.''
      