
        Harold Shapinsky, an Abstract Expressionist whose paintings remained largely unappreciated until late in his career, died on Jan. 31 in Rockville, Md. He was 78.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his son, David, said.
        Many of the giants of Abstract Expressionism, from David Hare to Mark Rothko and Robert Motherwell, had long been aware of Mr. Shapinsky, who resolved to become a painter when he was 15.
        ''There was no question with him that the talent and the dedication were real,'' Mr. Motherwell said in an interview with Lawrence Weschler in a 1985 article in The New Yorker. ''However, the main thing I remember about him was how terribly intense he was -- a combination of extreme intensity and shyness. He'd tremble; he'd quiver with all that intensity.''
        His work came into public consciousness only in the mid-1980's, and then only because of the publicity generated by his friend Akumal Ramachander, an Indian teacher and art lover, who became convinced of his genius.
        Mr. Ramachander's persistent salesmanship won him access to the heads of museums and galleries in London, and in the spring of 1985 he persuaded James Mayer to give Mr. Shapinsky a show at his gallery.
        Mr. Ramachander also persuaded Channel 4 television in Britain to profile Mr. Shapinsky. The novelist Salman Rushdie wrote about him in the British press. Mr. Weschler wrote The New Yorker piece after the London show, Mr. Shapinsky's first major exhibition.
        For this struggling artist, who turned 60 that year, the London show was a financial windfall: of the 22 paintings displayed, 19 were reportedly sold, at prices from $12,000 to $30,000.
        Mr. Shapinsky also showed in European galleries, and in 1992 the National Arts Club in New York held a retrospective of his work.
        Although he kept painting, the 1985 London exhibition was the high-water mark of his commercial success.
        Harold Shapinsky was born in Brooklyn in 1925, the son of immigrants from Russia. His father worked in the garment business, and his mother was a self-taught pianist.
        Despite his mother's love of music, the visual arts were not encouraged in the Shapinsky family. In The New Yorker profile Mr. Weschler noted that as young Harold's drawing talent started to gain notice, it began to be ''actively discouraged'' by his parents. But he persisted, through long obscurity and temporary fame.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Washington, Mr. Shapinsky is survived by his wife, the former Kate Peters, also of Washington; a brother, Chaim Shapin of Delray Beach, Fla.; and two grandchildren.
      