
        Jerome F. Lederer, an aviation safety expert who introduced blinking anticollision lights and flight data recorders to aircraft, helped create many of the regulations promoting safe air travel and was NASA's first director of manned space flight safety, died Friday, at a hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 101.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, according to the Flight Safety Foundation, a nonprofit organization he established in 1947 to provide accident-prevention information to airlines and pilots around the world.
        Born a year before the Wright brothers' first flight, Mr. Lederer became fascinated with planes after attending a 1910 air show featuring the aviator Glenn Curtiss. Though he never learned to fly, he studied aeronautics at New York University, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering.
        Mr. Lederer's interest in safety surfaced when he took his first job, in 1926, as the only aeronautical engineer employed by the United States Air Mail Service. At the time, one in four of the service's pilots died on the job, usually in fires after crashes. To study the problem, Mr. Lederer conducted a test, sending one of the service's biplanes at full power down a ramp into a concrete wall. Slow-motion film showed that the crash caused fuel to spill out of the plane's tank onto the hot exhaust manifold and ignite. Mr. Lederer redesigned the plane to correct the flaw.
        Mr. Lederer also met Charles Lindbergh while working for the Air Mail Service and inspected the Spirit of St. Louis the day before its historic 1927 flight from New York to Paris.
        ''I did not have too much hope that he would make it,'' Mr. Lederer said in a Flight Safety Foundation publication in 2002. ''I just went out because I was a friend of his, and I wanted to see the airplane, to look the situation over.''
        After a dozen years as chief engineer for Aero Insurance Underwriters, where he developed an air-safety newsletter for policyholders, Mr. Lederer joined the new Civil Aeronautics Board as director of its safety bureau in 1940. One of his first tasks was to respond to the concerns of DC-3 pilots, who feared nighttime collisions with faster military planes whose pilots could not distinguish the steady taillights of the DC-3's from lights on the ground.
        Borrowing a DC-3 from American Airlines, Mr. Lederer installed different kinds of flashing lights, then had it fly at night while he stood below on the roof of his home to judge which flash interval was most clearly visible.
        At the same time, he was also carrying out a new requirement for transport planes to have flight data recorders, a regulation met with significant opposition.
        ''The Air Line Pilots Association protested and said this was just nothing but a mechanical spy that would tell lies about the pilot,'' Mr. Lederer said in the 2002 Flight Safety Foundation publication. ''I put through the regulation anyway. A few weeks later, a United Airlines pilot was accused of flying too low over Fort Wayne, Ind. We proved by the flight data recorder, however, that he was flying at the correct altitude.''
        In the 1950's, Mr. Lederer was a member of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Aviation Facilities Investigation Group, which organized the agency now known as the Federal Aviation Administration and modernized the air traffic control system.
        In 1967, after the space capsule fire that killed three astronauts in a launching pad test, NASA chose Mr. Lederer to establish an Office of Manned Space Flight Safety. One of his first moves was to begin using the term ''risk management'' in place of ''safety.''
        ''Risk management is a more realistic term than safety,'' he said. ''It implies that hazards are ever-present, that they must be identified, analyzed, evaluated and controlled or rationally accepted.''
        He also instituted a policy of rewarding, rather than punishing, those who admitted their mistakes.
        ''When the space shuttle Challenger accident was investigated,'' he recalled in 2002, ''the reports said that, had NASA retained this philosophy, the Challenger accident probably would not have happened.''
        In 1970, he was named safety director for all NASA activities. Retiring from NASA in 1972, he later taught at the University of Southern California and, after the 1979 accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant, served two three-year terms on the Advisory Council for the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations, where he helped apply aerospace safety concepts to the nuclear power industry.
        Jerome Fox Lederer was born on Sept. 26, 1902, in Manhattan. He is survived by his wife of 68 years, Sarah, of Laguna Hills; two daughters, Nancy Cain of Oklahoma City and Susan Lederer of Santa Rosa, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Lederer, who lectured internationally until recently, received numerous awards, including the Edward Warner Award, one of civil aviation's highest honors; the NASA Exceptional Services Medal; the F.A.A. Distinguished Service Medal; the Daniel Guggenheim Medal; and the K. E. Tsiolkovsky Medal from the Soviet Federation of Cosmonauts.
        He also was recognized with another widely used if unofficial designation, Mr. Aviation Safety.
      