
        Samuel M. Rubin, who was known as ''Sam the Popcorn Man'' for making popcorn almost as popular in New York City movie theaters as jokes and kisses, died on Thursday. He was 85.
        He died in Boynton Beach, Fla., his daughter, Karen Rubin, said.
        Movies had prospered without popcorn until the Great Depression, when theater owners scrambled to make up for reduced ticket prices by turning to ''audible edibles.'' The appetite of moviegoers was so great that from 1934 to 1940, the nation's annual popcorn harvest grew from 5 million to 100 million pounds.
        Marty Winter, who worked for Mr. Rubin and in turn employed him over their careers of more than 60 years in the movie concession business, recalled that Mr. Rubin saw popcorn being made in Oklahoma City on a visit around 1930 and started selling it at concessions he controlled when he returned to New York.
        But Mr. Rubin's daughter and another longtime business colleague, Carl Levine, said it was not until the early 1950's that Mr. Rubin began to sell popcorn in a major way. At the time, his company, ABC Consolidated, now part of the Ogden Corporation, had the refreshments concession for major movie chains in the New York metropolitan area, including RKO, Brandt and Loews.
        Andrew F. Smith, the author of ''Popped Culture: The Social History of Popcorn in America,'' said New York theaters were among the last to embrace popcorn, because it had a small profit margin, popping machines were a fire hazard and the snack seemed a bit déclassé. Charles Cretors, the president of C. Cretors & Company, which has made popping machines since 1885, agreed that New York was late to the popping game and suggested that part of the reason may have been that early popping oils contained lard, which is not kosher.
        Mr. Smith said that popcorn was being sold in some New York theaters by the 1940's and that if Mr. Rubin began selling it in earnest in the early 1950's, he ''was certainly not the first.''
        But Mr. Rubin was very likely the first to pop corn in machines on a widespread basis in theaters. He had begun by popping the kernels in Long Island City and trucking the result to theaters, but quickly realized that the smell of popping corn would not exactly hurt sales. Improvements in machines had lessened the fire danger.
        A spokeswoman for the Popcorn Board in Chicago confirmed that ABC was a very large buyer of popcorn in the 1950's.
        Mr. Rubin was born on May 24, 1918, in Brooklyn. He sold pretzels at age 6 and flags at 9. At 12, he went to work for Lazar, Stein & Landsman, ABC's predecessor company, filling vending machines in movie theaters, which did not yet have concession stands. When a vending machine rolled and broke against the stage, he used it as counter to sell candy, a precursor of the modern movie concession stand.
        Over his concession career, Mr. Rubin did not neglect candy. He developed movie-size candy bars and boxes, which could be sold for $1.50 instead of 35 cents. He also met the trend to sell liquor in Broadway theaters halfway: at first, he sold only champagne in those where he had the concession.
        Mr. Rubin served in the Army in World War II; he later faced more dangers when he survived a murder attempt by a rival in his company and an armed robbery in which the thief, who later killed the manager of a laundry in another robbery, put a gun to Mr. Rubin's head.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Eleanor; his sons, Lawrence and Martin; nine grandchildren; and a brother.
      