
        Helmut Werner, the executive who gave renewed luster to the Mercedes automobile but whose influence fell victim to the combination process that resulted in the trans-Atlantic DaimlerChrysler, died on Friday in Berlin. He was 67 and lived in Stuttgart, where the company is based.
        His death, from an undisclosed illness, was confirmed by a DaimlerChrysler spokeswoman, Nicole Ladage.
        Mr. Werner's tenure with Daimler-Benz, one of Germany's largest enterprises, left a lasting imprint on its cars. After a highly successful job at a leading tire maker, he joined Mercedes-Benz in 1987. He resigned 10 years later, saying he saw no future for himself in the new management structure devised by Jürgen Schrempp, now the chairman of DaimlerChrysler.
        Mr. Werner started in the Mercedes division that builds heavy trucks, buses and utility vehicles. In 1993, he moved to the carmaking division, which was in a deep slump, with thousands of jobs at stake. As chief executive of Mercedes-Benz A.G., he steered it toward new markets, where it remains profitable.
        Mr. Werner listened to dissenting views from younger managers with ideas for new models. He retrenched and restructured, discussing his recovery strategy with board members and union committees alike.
        He put the Mercedes brand on a novelty like the little Smart car, developed with SMH, the Swiss maker of Swatch watches, and produced an array of other fresh models that drew buyers the world over. These included the subcompact Mercedes A-Class, the M-Class sport utility vehicle and the small SLK roadster.
        He opened a Mercedes plant in the United States, in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and by all accounts he contributed substantially to the international standing Mercedes retained among competing brands.
        But Mr. Werner's departure from the company seemed foreordained when he fought to preserve the identity of Mercedes-Benz while Daimler, which was already a large presence in aerospace, electronics and financial services, moved toward a merger with the Chrysler Corporation.
        He and Mr. Schrempp were rivals when the previous Daimler chairman, Edzard Reuter, retired in 1995; the question then was ''Werner or Schrempp?'' In 1997, Mr. Schrempp succeeded in folding Mercedes into Daimler-Benz and set the stage for the Chrysler merger. Mr. Werner left.
        Soon before he did, Business Week named him one of the world's top 25 managers. He said then he would not turn into the ''pensioner Helmut Werner who only plays tennis and goes skiing,'' though he enjoyed both.
        He became the chairman of Expo 2000 in Hanover and sat on the boards of Alcatel Alsthom, I.B.M. Germany, J. P. Morgan Germany and BASF. In 1997, he became a principal in Penske Capital Partners, a company formed to acquire transportation businesses.
        Helmut Eberhard Werner was born in Cologne and received the German equivalent of an M.B.A. at the University of Cologne in 1961. He started his career with Englebert & Company in Aachen, where he held several sales positions.
        In 1970, he was named general product manager of Uniroyal Europe in Liège, Belgium, where he rose to become managing director by 1978. A year later he joined the executive board of Continental, the tire maker, in Hanover.
        From 1982 to 1987, he was chairman of Continental. His success in returning that company to profitability established his reputation among its main customers, the auto industry.
        Mr. Werner is survived by his wife, Erika; a son, Jens; and a daughter, Britta.
      