
        Charles Biederman, an American Modernist painter, sculptor and theorist who made his mark in New York in the 1930's, died on Sunday at his home in Red Wing, Minn. He was 98.
        His death was announced by Lyndel King, director of the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, which owns a large collection of Mr. Biederman's works.
        In the 1930's, under the influence of Mondrian's grid paintings and Russian Constructivism, Mr. Biederman created reliefs consisting of richly colored vertical and horizontal elements. He continued to refine his easel-sized works over the ensuing decades, arriving in the 1950's at a kind of futuristic Cubism: compositions of centrally clustered, brightly colored geometric elements that projected from monochromatic panels.
        Retrospective exhibitions of his works were organized by the Hayward Gallery in London in 1969 and by the Minneapolis Institute of Arts in 1974.
        A prolific writer, Mr. Biederman self-published volumes on the history of art and on his theories about the relationship between art and nature. In the 1960's his writings attracted a following among a younger generation of abstract artists in England and Canada. He was also a tireless correspondent, and a volume of letters between him and the physicist David Bohm, ''Bohm-Biederman Correspondence: Creativity and Science,'' was published by Routledge in 1999.
        Karel Joseph Biederman was born in Cleveland on August 23, 1906. The son of Czech immigrants, he dropped out of high school but took classes in drawing and watercolor at the Cleveland Art Institute and later attended the Art School of Chicago. In 1934 he moved to New York, where the Modernist art impresario A.E. Gallatin included him in a show called ''Five American Concretionists,'' along with Alexander Calder, John Ferren, George L.K. Morris and Charles Shaw. He had his first solo exhibition in New York in 1936 at Pierre Matisse Gallery.
        Mr. Biederman went to Paris in 1936 and met Picasso, Mondrian, Miró and other luminaries, but he returned to New York nine months later, convinced that there was little future for art in Paris.
        In 1941 he moved back to Chicago and married Mary Katherine Moore. The couple moved to Red Wing shortly afterward, and in 1954 they bought the farmhouse where Mr. Biederman lived for the rest of his life. His wife died in 1975. Mr. Biederman continued to produce geometric assemblages of painted cast-metal parts with painstaking care until poor eyesight forced him to stop in the 1990's.
        He is survived by his daughter, Anna Brown of Red Wing, and one grandson.
      