
        Rear Adm. John Harllee, a decorated veteran of fighting in the Pacific in World War II and former chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission, died Feb. 5 in Bethesda, Md. He was 91.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Admiral Harllee was a lieutenant stationed at Pearl Harbor at the time of the Japanese attack. In the war, he commanded a torpedo boat squadron in the Southwest Pacific that won a Presidential Unit Citation for outstanding combat performance in 1943 and 1944.
        He also served as chief staff officer of a PT boat group of 200 boats with 10,000 officers and men, including Lt. John F. Kennedy. Admiral Harllee returned from the war with a Silver Star and a Legion of Merit with Combat V.
        After the war, he was attached to the Navy's Congressional liaison team and assigned to Representative Kennedy in 1947-48. He returned to destroyer duty and in the Korean War was executive officer of the cruiser Manchester.
        He retired from the Navy in 1959 and in 1960 became chairman of Citizens for Kennedy and Johnson in northern California.
        In 1961, President Kennedy appointed him to the newly created Federal Maritime Commission, a five-member regulatory panel that was succeeded by the Federal Maritime Board, and the president promoted him to chairman in 1963.
        He was reconfirmed by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, and he retired from the commission, which oversees ocean transportation in foreign commerce, in 1969.
        For the next five years he was a maritime consultant, traveling widely in North Africa, the Soviet Union, China and elsewhere. In retirement, he continued to write articles for professional journals, as well as three books.
        John Harllee was born in Washington. His father was a Marine Corps general. He was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy and the Naval War College.
        His wife of 48 years, Jo Beth Carden Harllee, died in 1985. His second wife, the former Helen Tewksbury King, died in 2001. He is survived by a son, John Jr., of Washington; two grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      