
        Dr. Edward D. Freis, an award-winning medical researcher whose early studies of high blood pressure in patients reversed the prevailing wisdom and helped definitively establish the health risks of hypertension, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Washington. He was 92.
        The cause was multiple organ failure, said a daughter, Susan Freis Falknor.
        Working at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Washington in the 1960's, Dr. Freis (pronounced freeze) and his fellow investigators conducted a five-year study of patients with high blood pressure. Half the patients studied were treated with diuretic medications, which promote the formation of urine in the kidneys, and half received placebos.
        In the study's first stages, Dr. Freis found that the group taking placebos recorded a total of 21 serious health incidents resulting in deaths, strokes or heart attacks. The group taking diuretics recorded only one event. The striking contrast helped establish the benefits of treating and reducing hypertension.
        At the conclusion of the study, the researchers found that drug treatment cut deaths from moderate hypertension by half, and reduced strokes and other complications by about 67 percent. Before the Veterans Administration study, it had been widely believed that high blood pressure was actually helpful in circulating blood to the brain and other body extremities, and should not be treated.
        In recognition of the work, Dr. Freis received the Albert Lasker Award for clinical medical research in 1971. The award citation called the research ''an exemplary demonstration of the potential of preventive medicine.''
        Dr. Vasilios Papademetriou, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at Georgetown University, said Dr. Freis soon suspected a link between the overuse of table salt and hypertension. In part to spread the message and to encourage more healthful habits, Dr. Freis wrote ''The High Blood Pressure Book'' with Gina Kolata, a reporter for The New York Times. It was published in 1979.
        Edward David Freis was born in Chicago. He earned an undergraduate degree at the University of Arizona and his medical degree from Columbia University in 1940.
        After early research into rheumatic fever, he joined the Veterans Administration Hospital in Washington as assistant chief of medical services in 1949. He became chief of medical services there in 1954, and was named a senior medical investigator in 1959.
        In 1957, Dr. Freis was appointed professor of medicine at Georgetown University Medical Center and remained active there until the 1990's. He continued to publish until recently.
        He also was president of the Washington Heart Association. In 2001, he received an award of meritorious accomplishment from the American Heart Association.
        Dr. Freis was divorced and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He is survived by his companion of 30 years, Mary Rose Curtis of Glen Echo, Md.; two daughters, Ms. Falknor of Bluemont, Va., and Martha Bramhall of Silver Spring, Md.; a son, Richard, of Jackson, Miss.; six grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
      