
        Dr. Paul E. Lacy, a pathologist who was known as the father of islet cell transplants, an experimental treatment for Type 1 diabetes, died Tuesday in Zanesville, Ohio. He was 81.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic lung disease, said his son Paul E. Lacy Jr.
        Dr. Lacy was among the first scientists to observe how beta cells, which reside in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas, make insulin. He also developed and refined techniques for isolating islet cells, which make up about 2 percent of the pancreas, to prepare them for transplant.
        In 1972, Dr. Lacy was credited with performing the first successful islet transplant in laboratory rats, curing the animals of their diabetic disorder. He then went on to do the same operation in dogs, in monkeys and ultimately, in the 1980's, in people.
        In 1989, Dr. Lacy and his colleague Dr. David Scharp performed a human islet transplant that enabled the patient to stop using insulin injections, said Dr. Scharp, who is now chief medical officer of Novocell Inc., a biotechnology company in Irvine, Calif., that is continuing to research islet cells.
        ''Paul Lacy was the person who really started this entire field,'' said Dr. James Shapiro, a surgeon at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. ''It was entirely due to him and the people he trained.''
        Colleagues credit Dr. Lacy with building enthusiasm for islet transplants by training young surgeons and by encouraging other researchers.
        The islet cell transplants, however, remain experimental and have not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Since 2000, new combinations of drugs to prevent rejection have improved the transplants' performance, but they still do not work well enough to free most patients from insulin injections permanently.
        In 1970, Dr. Lacy helped create the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, now the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. Lee Ducat, the founder of that organization, said, ''He helped design our peer review process; he scheduled innovative conferences to bring new young people into the diabetes field; and he even helped us with fund-raising on telethons.''
        Paul Eston Lacy was born in Trinway, Ohio. He received his medical degree from Ohio State University and later received a doctorate in pathology from the Mayo Clinic Foundation.
        Beginning in 1961 and for the next 23 years, he was a professor and the chairman of the department of pathology and immunology at Washington University in St. Louis. He retired in 1984, but continued to consult with researchers working to improve islet cell transplants.
        His first wife, Ellen Lacy, died in 1998.
        He is survived by his second wife, Bonnie Mattingly Lacy, whom he married in 2002; his sons, Paul Jr., of Stillwater, Minn., and Steven T., of Cambridge, Mass.; four stepchildren, John E. Starner of Zanesville, Sheryl Williams of Cold Springs, Ky., Rebecca McInerney, of Coshocton, Ohio, and Brenda Lepi, of Nashport, Ohio; and 10 grandchildren.
      