
        John Raitt, the lyric baritone who created Broadway history as Billy Bigelow in the original production of ''Carousel'' in 1945 and Sid Sorokin in ''The Pajama Game '' a decade later, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his manager, James Fitzgerald.
        Mr. Raitt retained a voice both sweet and powerful into his 80's and collaborated with his daughter, the singer Bonnie Raitt, on the road and in television specials.
        As a young man, his voice came into wide notice in his portrayal of Billy Bigelow, the troubled antihero of Rodgers and Hammerstein's musical ''Carousel.'' In that role, Mr. Raitt brought a rough-hewn realism to the Broadway musical stage that anticipated the flawed, vulnerable characters played by Marlon Brando and James Dean in the next decade. Billy is a cocky carnival barker who falls in love with and marries Julie Jordan, a factory worker in a New England fishing village. Their impoverished life drives him to attempt a robbery, in which he is killed. In his signature song, ''Soliloquy,'' Billy reflects movingly on his impending fatherhood. Mr. Raitt's performance in ''Carousel'' was so memorable that he came to epitomize (along with Alfred Drake in ''Oklahoma!'') a new distinctively modern breed of Broadway leading man -- rugged cowboys and blue-collar workers.
        The seven-minute-long ''Soliloquy'' was written specifically for Mr. Raitt, after he auditioned by singing some operatic arias. From then on, he had a relationship to the work that was personal as well as professional.
        But by 1966 in yet another revival of ''Carousel,'' Mr. Raitt complained that there were few new roles for a romantic leading man with a commanding way about him onstage. He also said he had grown tired of repeating his roles in revivals. Besides, none of the newer Broadway productions offered him the quality he wanted, he said. And some of the productions for which his services were sought were nothing short of disastrous.
        In 1948 he appeared in ''Magdalena,'' which had been awaited with great anticipation, since its music was written by Villa-Lobos. But Mr. Raitt got nary a mention in Brooks Atkinson's review in The New York Times. Atkinson called the production ''one of the most overpoweringly dull musical dramas of all time.'' Four years later Mr. Raitt was seen and heard in ''Three Wishes for Jamie,'' whose music and lyrics were created by another distinguished composer, Ralph Blane. The critics took note of Mr. Raitt's fine voice but otherwise did not like the production and it closed after only 94 performances.
        But his star rose again with ''Pajama Game,'' by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross, a musical comedy that explored the union doings of workers in a pajama factory in the Midwest. It opened on Broadway in 1954 and was made into a movie in 1957. Mr. Raitt played the role of a just-hired mill executive smitten with a union activist (played in the original production by Janis Paige, in the movie by Doris Day). Atkinson praised Mr. Raitt for his ''deep voice and romantic manner.'' Bosley Crowther reviewed the movie version a few years later and called Mr. Raitt ''refreshing because he looks natural and he has a voice.'' Mr. Crowther said he wanted to see Mr. Raitt in another musical film but it was not to be.
        The musical scene changed rapidly in the 1960's and 1970's. Singers who would not have been taken seriously in the years immediately following World War II became stars. And serious composers like Richard Rodgers began to complain that the theatergoers whose musical tastes permitted them to appreciate ''Oklahoma'' and ''Carousel'' seemed to be declining in influence. In 1977 Rodgers complained in an interview with The Times that the newer composers ''seem to have left out the melody'' and ''most of the harmony.'' Mr. Raitt basically agreed with him. He said that Rodgers and Hammerstein wrote music that was ''singable and right for my voice'' and he knew that era was passing. Whether the era was changing because musical tastes were changing or because of more mundane considerations was a matter of debate -- specifically, about money and what it cost to mount new productions.
        Whatever the cause, the kind of music Mr. Raitt wanted to sing was marginalized on Broadway. But he was nevertheless proud of his daughter, Bonnie, even though her métier was embedded in rock. Father and daughter seemed quite content when she appeared with him from time to time in duets written by the composers he liked, like Frederick Loewe, Jerome Kern and Irving Berlin.
        In the 1950's television provided work for Mr. Raitt and singers with comparable skills. He was heard on programs like ''The Bell Telephone Hour'' and on variety shows with Dinah Shore and Jack Benny as host. In 1957 he played opposite Mary Martin in a television production of ''Annie Get Your Gun.'' The show did not get very good reviews but Mr. Raitt's voice did.
        John Emmet Raitt was born on Jan. 20, 1917, in Santa Ana, Calif., the son of Archie J. Raitt and the former Stella Walton. The elder Raitt worked for the Young Men's Christian Association, and there was no particular effort made to encourage John toward a career in music, although he was invited to sing for YMCA campfire get-togethers.
        As a high school student, he was athletic, excelling in both football and track and he contemplated becoming an athletic instructor at the high school level. After high school, he attended the University of Southern California and then the University of Redlands, where he majored in physical education. He wanted to compete in the Olympic games of 1940, but they were canceled by the outbreak of World War II. Mr. Raitt, a Quaker, was a conscientious objector and did not serve.
        He began to sing at Rotary Club luncheons and elsewhere. He sang with the Riverside Light Opera and in 1940 joined the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera Company. He regarded his formal debut as his appearance in a production of ''H.M.S. Pinafore'' that summer. He subsequently performed in productions of ''Rose-Marie,'' ''The Vagabond King'' and ''Die Fledermaus.'' In 1941 and 1942 he was a featured vocalist with the Los Angeles Symphonic Band.
        He got some movie work in the 1940's, appearing in ''Flight Command'' and ''Billy the Kid,'' two vehicles for Robert Taylor, as well as a low-budget movie starring Benny Fields called ''The Minstrel Man.''
        In 1944 he won the role of Curly in the touring company of ''Oklahoma!,'' and the reviews he got there were enough to earn him attention for the Billy Bigelow role in ''Carousel.''
        Even as an older man he did not hesitate to demonstrate his love for singing and performing. In 1979, when a hurricane forced cancellation of ''Man of La Mancha'' in Hyannis, Mass., Mr. Raitt sang ''The Impossible Dream'' to three busloads of disappointed theatergoers. He said he did this ''so they wouldn't go back empty-handed.''
        In addition to his daughter, Bonnie, he is survived by two sons, Steven and David, all from his first marriage to Marjorie Haydock. They divorced in 1971. His marriage to Kathleen Smith Landry in 1972 ended in divorce. In 1981 he married Rosemary Kraemer, who also survives him.
        In 1993 he turned up onstage at the St. James Theater on Broadway, the original home of ''Oklahoma!,'' on the 50th anniversary of the musical's opening night. Before the curtain rose on a preview of ''Tommy,'' Mr. Raitt sang the title song to ''Oklahoma!'' in full voice to the young audience.
      