
        Hunter S. Thompson, the anger-driven, drug-fueled writer for Rolling Stone magazine whose obscenity-laced prose broke down the wall between reader and writer, writer and subject, shot and killed himself on Sunday at his home in Woody Creek, Colo. He was 67.
        His death was reported by the Pitkin County sheriff's office.
        At his peak Mr. Thompson reached out in his writing to a generation made cynical by the Vietnam War and the Watergate political scandal and that was prepared to respond to Mr. Thompson's visceral honesty, his creative blend of fact and fantasy, his rage at convention and power.
        ''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas,'' published by Random House in 1972, cemented Mr. Thompson's place as a singular presence in American journalism or, as he once called himself, ''a connoisseur of edge work.'' In that semi-fictional work, Mr. Thompson's alter ego, Raoul Duke, and his lawyer, Dr. Gonzo, ride from Los Angeles to Las Vegas in a convertible loaded up with drugs, in what the book's subtitle describes as ''a savage journey to the heart of the American Dream.''
        But it was his writing as a national political reporter for Rolling Stone magazine that brought Mr. Thompson's rule-breaking style to a broader audience, where his outrageous voice helped refocus the nation's customarily straitlaced political dialogue.
        It was while covering the primary race and the presidential campaign between George McGovern and the incumbent Richard M. Nixon in 1972 that Mr. Thompson forced mainstream news organizations to take notice. That year, some of his most acerbic lines were quoted in publications like Newsweek and The New York Times. (A Times writer quoted Mr. Thompson saying Hubert Humphrey was campaigning like ''a rat in heat.'')
        For Mr. Thompson the goal was to tell the truth -- at least his version of the truth -- and it did not much matter how he got there. ''Fiction,'' Mr. Thompson said in an interview with The Associated Press in 2003, ''is based on reality unless you're a fairy-tale artist. You have to get your knowledge of life from somewhere. You have to know the material you're writing about before you alter it.''
        In more recent years Mr. Thompson seemed a man cornered by his own self-image, marginalized for having stayed put while the generation he once courted -- the generation that brandished the slogan ''drugs, sex and rock 'n' roll'' -- turned its attention to issues like property taxes and social security. Mr. Thompson found that the image he built during his adult life, that of the heavy-drinking, drug-using, gun- toting, sharp-tongued social critic with aviator glasses and a cigarette between his lips, had become a cartoon character -- literally. Uncle Duke, a character in ''Doonesbury,'' the Garry Trudeau comic strip, was modeled after Mr. Thompson, and the real Mr. Thompson wasn't too thrilled.
        ''You don't really think of making it in America as being a cartoon character,'' Mr. Thompson said in an interview with The Associated Press in the early 1980's. ''It's hard to try and run around and be normal when you're confronted constantly with movies and comic strips.''
        Yet his early work presaged some of the fundamental changes that have rocked journalism today. Mr. Thompson's approach in many ways mirrors the style of modern-day bloggers, those self-styled social commentators who blend news, opinion and personal experience on Internet postings. Like bloggers, Mr. Thompson built his case for the state of America around the framework of his personal views and opinions.
        Hunter Stockton Thompson was born on July 18, 1937, in Louisville, Ky. He was educated in public schools and joined the United States Air Force after high school. There he was introduced to journalism, covering sports for an Air Force newspaper in Florida. He was honorably discharged in 1958 and then worked a series of jobs writing for small-town newspapers. Even before he burst onto the national scene, Mr. Thompson had built a reputation as an eccentric, hard-driving reporter in upstate New York.
        Mr. Thompson's biography has traditional contours. But in a Playboy interview given years ago, the magazine filled in some of the profile with Thompsonesque details. In the introduction to his interview, the magazine said he lied to get the job at a base newspaper; was fired when his superiors found out he was writing for another publication under a pen name; and was fired from a newspaper job for destroying his editor's car.
        In that interview, Mr. Thompson said that he found his literary voice -- a highly personal controlled rant that became known, somewhat inexplicably, as gonzo journalism -- while writing a story about the Kentucky Derby for Scanlan's magazine.
        ''I'd blown my mind, couldn't work,'' he told Playboy, explaining how he could not get the story done for deadline. ''So finally I just started jerking pages out of my notebook and numbering them and sending them to the printer. I was sure it was the last article I was ever going to do for anybody.'' The article was a success, and Mr. Thompson said ''if I can write like this and get away with it, why should I keep trying to write like The New York Times?''
        Mr. Thompson had some early success as a foreign correspondent writing from South America for The National Observer. But it was his first book -- ''Hell's Angels: A Strange and Terrible Saga'' (Modern Library, 1967) -- that quickly established his reputation for producing what Eliot Fremont-Smith, in The Times, called an ''angry, knowledgeable and excitedly written book.''
        Mr. Thompson, who spent more than a year traveling with the Hell's Angels, gave the nation a tongue lashing for creating mythic villains, like the motorcycle gang, which he revealed to be more pathetic than fearsome.
        Mr. Thompson wrote about a dozen books, including ''Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail,'' the culmination of his work on the 1972 campaign. In his political coverage Mr. Thompson made no secret of his hatred of Nixon, once calling him ''that dark, venal and incurably violent side of the American character.''
        He was generous with invective, once referring to Humphrey, the former vice president, as a ''hopelessly dishonest old hack.''
        In his later years, before his death, as attitudes toward drugs and alcohol stiffened, Mr. Thompson seemed to have trouble adjusting to the new reality around him, to neighbors who no longer tolerated gunshots going off on his property. As early as the 1990's, he began to display his disgust with what he said was ''the feeling today you can't fight City Hall. But sure you can -- and win.''
        Mr. Thompson, who had suffered pain from back surgery and other ailments in recent years, spent his final days in his compound in Woody Creek, not far from Aspen. The sheriff's department said he was found by his son, Juan, who survives him, as does his second wife, Anita Beymuk. His first marriage, to Sandra Dawn, Juan's mother, ended in divorce.
        During his career, there were moments, usually in interviews or in his own personal correspondence, when Mr. Thompson let the public in on the point. It was, he seemed to suggest, not really about guns and drugs, and tearing up the pavement and planting grass, but about grabbing public attention to focus on the failures of leadership, the hypocrisy in society.
        In 1970 Mr. Thompson ran for sheriff in Pitkin County, Colo., on the ''freak power'' platform, calling himself ''a foulmouthed outlaw journalist.'' It seemed a joke, another outlandish act, until the votes were counted and he came close to winning. In a letter he wrote to Senator Walter Mondale in 1971, Mr. Thompson said his campaign came down ''very simply to the notion of running a completely honest political campaign -- saying exactly what we thought and what we planned to do.''
        He added, ''The real issue was Power and Who was going to have it.''
      