
        Robert R. Merhige Jr., a retired federal district judge whose decision ordering school desegregation in Virginia in the early 1970's meant he lived for a time under round-the-clock guard, died last Friday in Richmond. He was 86.
        His death was announced by the international law firm Hunton & Williams in Richmond, to which he was of special counsel since leaving the bench in 1998.
        Named by President Lyndon B. Johnson to Federal District Court in Richmond in 1967, Judge Merhige (pronounced like marriage) ordered the desegregation of dozens of Virginia school districts in 1972. The ruling merged largely black urban districts with largely white suburban ones and touched off years of furor and legal jousting.
        The judge rebutted those who accused him of social engineering. Rather, he considered himself a ''strict constructionist'' who went by the law as spelled out in higher-court precedents and thought his school decision would be viewed in that light. Still, he was given 24-hour protection by federal marshals as threats of violence were repeatedly made to him and his family, extending as far as the shooting of his dog and the burning of a guest cottage on his property.
        Other important rulings from his courtroom touched on environmental regulations and consumer rights, as well as civil rights. He ordered the University of Virginia to admit women in 1970 and strengthened the right of pregnant women to keep their jobs.
        He wrote the decision that threw out the appeals of Watergate figures, including G. Gordon Liddy, after they were convicted of breaking into the office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. And he presided over the trials of Ku Klux Klan and American Nazi Party leaders accused of killing members of the Communist Workers Party in Greensboro, N.C., in 1979.
        In one of the biggest corporate liability cases, he oversaw the Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, which paid out almost $3 billion to nearly 200,000 claimants who said they had been harmed by an intrauterine contraceptive device, or IUD. Sped along by him, the work was finished eight years ahead of schedule.
        Judge Merhige spent 31 years on the federal bench, winning a reputation for speedy action. He showed little patience for prolonged pretrial fact-finding or long witness lists.
        Lawyers referred to the Eastern District of Virginia, where he sat with two other federal judges, as the ''rocket docket.''
        Robert Reynold Merhige Jr. was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., of Lebanese ancestry. His father was a dentist, and his talent on the basketball court got him into High Point College in North Carolina, where he learned about segregation. He graduated from the University of Richmond law school in 1942 and served in the Army Air Forces in World War II, returning with an Air Medal with four oak leaf clusters.
        Going into private practice in Richmond, he lost his first case but soon established himself as a formidable trial lawyer representing criminal defendants as well as dozens of insurance companies. In 1963 he supported President Johnson as co-chairman of a Virginia committee backing his election; President Johnson subsequently nominated him to the federal bench.
        Judge Merhige is survived by his wife of 47 years, Shirley Galleher Merhige; two sons, Robert R. III, of Virginia Beach, and Mark R., of Richmond; a sister, Patricia Butler of Stockton, Calif.; three brothers, Wesley, of Saratoga, Fla., Harlan, of Clearwater, Fla., and Greg, of Stuart, Fla.; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      