
        David Bradford, an influential tax economist who devised an innovative way to change the income-tax system to encourage people to save and invest more, died on Tuesday in Philadelphia. He was 66 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was burns he suffered after a Christmas tree caught fire in his home on Feb. 8, his son, Theodore, said.
        Dr. Bradford, who taught economics and public affairs at Princeton and was a professor at New York University School of Law, favored a switch to taxing what people spend but not what they save out of their earnings.
        ''This would eliminate current inconsistencies in the taxing of different types of savings, create a more equitable distribution of the tax burden and bring about a more efficient use of the country's productive powers,'' he wrote in The New York Times in 1983.
        His system, which he called the X tax, resembles what is known as the flat tax, insofar as it eliminates taxes on income earned through savings. But unlike the flat tax, which applies a single rate for all income brackets, Dr. Bradford's X tax adds a graduated rate schedule, so that people with higher incomes pay at higher rates.
        Also an expert on ways to carry out a transition to such a system, Dr. Bradford was deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy in the Ford administration, from 1975 to 1976, and was appointed by President George H.W. Bush to the Council of Economic Advisers, on which he served from 1991 to 1993. At the Treasury, he played an important role in producing the study that led to the publication of ''Blueprints for Basic Tax Reform,'' which was considered influential on President Ronald Reagan's sweeping tax overhaul in 1986.
        ''David's creative ideas have profoundly shaped tax reform,'' said Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economics professor and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
        David Frantz Bradford was born Jan. 8, 1939, in Cambridge, Mass., the younger child of Mark Waldo Bradford, a book publisher and descendant of William Bradford, governor of the Plymouth Colony, and Matilda Frantz Bradford. He attended Amherst, receiving a B.A. in 1960, and Harvard, where he earned a master of science in applied mathematics in 1962. After study at Churchill College, Cambridge, in 1963 and 1964, he worked for the secretary of defense as an economic consultant in Germany, England and Washington. He earned his Ph.D. in economics at Stanford in 1966.
        In 1964, Dr. Bradford married Gunthild Klaerchen Huober, a landscape designer whom he met at Stanford. In addition to his son and wife, he is survived by a daughter, Catherine Louise, known as Lulu, of Heidelberg, Germany; four grandchildren; and a sister, Victoria Witte, of Webster Groves, Mo.
        In 1966 Dr. Bradford joined the Princeton economics department, where he remained until his death, serving intermittently as associate dean of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and as acting dean in 1980 and 1987.
        He wrote ''Untangling the Income Tax'' (Harvard, 1986).
      