
        Harald Szeemann, an influential Swiss museum curator whose groundbreaking exhibitions helped redefine his profession, died last Friday in the Ticino region of Switzerland. He was 71.
        His death was announced by the Venice Biennale and the Kunsthaus Zürich, for which he worked.
        Mr. Szeemann was often said to be the first independent, or freelance, curator. He invented the curator as art star, a globe-trotting, deal-making, usually male impresario of large-scale exhibitions that bore the imprint of a single vision and succeeded or failed on the strength of site-specific works executed specially for the show.
        Mr. Szeemann was the first curator to mount large surveys of the fertile breakdown of art mediums that began in the 1960's, and the first to have complete control over the sprawling Documenta exhibitions, which are held every five years or so in Kassel, Germany. He was known for shows that not only mixed genres and generations, but sometimes included historical documents and scientific innovations.
        He favored artists that he considered outsiders and visionaries, and saw himself as one too. He once said that he wanted an exhibition of his to be ''not just a group show, but a temporary world.''
        Born in Bern, Switzerland, in 1933, Mr. Szeemann studied art history, archaeology and journalism at the University of Bern before entering the highly evolved Swiss museum system. By 1961 he was head of the Kunsthalle Bern, organizing about a dozen exhibitions each year, including the wrapping of the Kunsthalle building by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, in 1968.
        The high point of his Bern tenure was ''When Attitude Becomes Form,'' arguably the most famous exhibition of new art of the postwar era. Assembled quickly, it opened in March 1969 in reaction to ''Documenta 4'' of 1968, which he felt was overly cautious.
        Although ''When Attitude Becomes Form'' included little art from outside the Western Hemisphere or by women, it was the first big show to acknowledge a broad range of mixed-media work that fell under freshly minted headings like Arte Povera, Process Art, Anti-Form, Conceptual Art and Performance Art. Its nearly 70 artists included Claes Oldenburg, Joseph Beuys, Eva Hesse and Bruce Nauman.
        Mr. Szeemann left the Bern museum later in 1969, and in 1970 organized another large, even more improbable show, ''Happenings and Fluxus,'' at the Kunstverein in Cologne. He was also appointed the sole curator of the fifth Documenta. Astounding in its sweep, ''Documenta 5'' quickly became a legend and an example, introducing installation and performance-oriented art to even broader audiences.
        After ''Documenta 5,'' Mr. Szeemann developed a nomadic mode of work. He organized ''Bachelor Machines'' for the Venice Biennale in 1975. In 1980, as a co-commissioner of the biennale, he created the first Aperto, or Open, exhibition, a cacophonous survey, held in a gigantic former rope factory, that ignored the national divisions of the biennale's pavilions.
        In 1981 Mr. Szeemann became the independent curator at the Kunsthaus Zürich, and mounted shows of a dizzying mix of 19th- and 20th-century artists and writers, including Victor Hugo, Charles Baudelaire, Eugène Delacroix, James Ensor, Sigmar Polke, Cy Twombly and Richard Serra. His theme exhibitions included ''In Search of the Total Artwork, '' ''Austria in a Lacework of Roses'' and ''Swiss Visionaries.'' He continued to work independently, organizing the Lyon Biennale and the Kwangju Biennial in Korea in 1997 and serving as commissioner of the Venice Biennale in 1999 and 2001. In 2003 he organized a survey of Spanish art at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens. ''Belgian Visionaries,'' an exhibition he completed just before his death, is to open at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels on March 4.
        Mr. Szeemann is survived by his second wife, Ingeborg Lüscher; their daughter, Uma; and the children from his first marriage, a son, Jêrome, of Basel, Switzerland; and a daughter, Valérie, of Paris.
      