
        Robert Koff, a founding member of the Juilliard String Quartet and a concert violinist who performed on modern and Baroque instruments, died on Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 86.
        His family said that he had been ill for two years.
        Mr. Koff, along with the violinist Robert Mann, the violist Raphael Hillyer and the cellist Arthur Winograd, formed the Juilliard String Quartet in 1946, at the request of the composer William Schuman, who was president of the Juilliard School.
        Schuman's mission for the ensemble was that it would champion contemporary music as part of a rounded repertory and that, as Juilliard's resident quartet, it would coach younger chamber ensembles. Although none of the original players remain in the lineup (the last to leave was Mr. Mann, who retired in 1997), for nearly six decades the group has maintained its affiliation with the Juilliard School and its original commitment to new music.
        As the group's original second violinist, Mr. Koff helped shape its sound when the Juilliard Quartet was establishing itself as the pre-eminent American chamber ensemble, and he performed on many of the group's classic recordings, including its first traversal of the six Bartok quartets, which was recorded in 1950 and recently reissued by Pearl, an English historical label. Mr. Koff left the group in 1958 when he became director of performance activities at Brandeis University.
        Mr. Koff was born in Los Angeles on Feb. 12, 1919, and graduated from the Oberlin Conservatory in 1941, He received a graduate diploma from Juilliard in 1946. During his years in the Juilliard Quartet (and on the Juilliard faculty), he also taught at the summer music schools at Aspen and Tanglewood.
        At Brandeis Mr. Koff pursued several performing and administrative roles. In the 1960's he was violinist and director of the Brandeis Chamber Players and conductor of the school's chamber orchestra. He played in the Brandeis String Quartet from 1960 to 1970. He was also chairman of the music department at Brandeis from 1969 to 1976, and retired in 1983.
        Mr. Koff taught and directed chamber music programs at Tel Aviv University in the mid-1970's and early 80's, and at Harvard in 1977.
        In addition to his performing and teaching, he lectured on music in a 40-part series on WGBH television in Boston. He was also the host of a six-part radio series devoted to the Haydn quartets for WGBH.
        Mr. Koff is survived by his wife, Rosalind Mann Koff, and his sons Stephen and Jeremy, of Los Angeles, and Daniel, of Sebastopol, Calif.
      