
        Henry A. Grunwald, a refugee from Nazi-dominated Austria who rose to become Time magazine's top editor and later returned to Vienna as the United States ambassador, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter Mandy.
        Mr. Grunwald was 45 years old and had been a writer, senior editor and foreign editor at Time when he was named managing editor in 1968.
        He oversaw Time's shift from a taut, tart, right-leaning publication designed by its founder, Henry R. Luce, to a more centrist magazine that more closely resembled its major competitor, Newsweek. Under his leadership, Time began awarding bylines, and Mr. Grunwald introduced a half-dozen new departments: Behavior, Environment, Energy, the Sexes, Economy and Dance.
        His tenure was successful, but not without problems. One of them was the highly publicized libel suit brought against Time by Ariel Sharon after Mr. Sharon was forced to resign as Israeli defense minister when a commission of inquiry found him indirectly responsible for the 1982 massacre, by Christian Phalangist forces, of hundreds of Palestinians in two refugee camps in Lebanon.
        Stung by critical press accounts of his role in Lebanon, Mr. Sharon filed the lawsuit, which accused the magazine of filing false reports for more than 30 years. The jury found defamation and falsehood but no malice, so Mr. Sharon lost.
        After the managing editor's job at Time, Mr. Grunwald was promoted to editor in chief of all Time Inc.'s publications from 1979 to his retirement in 1987. He was the third person to hold that position following Mr. Luce and Hedley Donovan. Some said Mr. Grunwald was either a moderate conservative or a conservative moderate who instinctively felt that the strength of true liberalism lay in its ability to resist extreme views.
        In ''Henry R. Luce and the Rise of the American News Media,'' James L. Baughman noted that soon after Mr. Grunwald became managing editor, Time began to convey ''a new if still circumscribed tolerance for liberal Democrats and the emerging counterculture.'' Mr. Grunwald was described as studying Newsweek with a ''new respect, adopting some of its approaches in the process of revising Luce's first publication.''
        Mr. Grunwald grew with Time, and his friends were not surprised when, in the wake of the Watergate scandal of the early 1970's, he personally wrote the magazine's editorial asking President Nixon to resign.
        In his 1989 accounting of his life in journalism, ''Right Places, Right Times,'' Mr. Donovan, who had picked Mr. Grunwald as Time's managing editor, said that Mr. Grunwald seemed ''a little less formidable'' than his predecessor, Otto Fuerbringer, had been. While ''his political and cultural center of gravity was a bit to the liberal side of Fuerbringer's,'' he was ''almost equally autocratic,'' Mr. Donovan said, adding however that Time ''mellowed under Grunwald.''
        Henry Grunwald was a workaholic. In the 1940's, when he was new to this country, he was so determined to learn American English that when he was not working as a copy boy at Time (a job he got in 1944, even before he graduated from New York University) he spent his off hours going to the movies on 42nd Street so that he could feel comfortable with the clever American sentences that Time devised and celebrated. Later in his career, he was especially proud when he came up with a lead paragraph that said, ''The Democrats have nothing to cheer but fear itself.''
        Aside from his devotion to work, he was in no way predictable. When the Nazis took over Vienna and harassed his father, threw him into jail and forced young Henry to go to a school with other Jews in the city's old ghetto, the experience nurtured his sense of being Jewish. But for the rest of his life, he recalled lovingly his mother's adage that ''there is only one religion and that is to be good.'' He was always interested in religion, and it influenced his work as a journalist. He was attracted to the order and ancient beauty of Roman Catholicism, and after he met Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, he gave serious thought to converting.
        He ultimately decided against it because his problem was ''not only with Christianity and Catholicism but with religion and faith in general.'' He added, ''Rationally, I was convinced that the universe without God made no sense, but that simply was not the same as believing.''
        He said that he felt the need for faith, ''but I also knew that I could not argue myself, or be argued, into faith.'' Nevertheless, he wrote his final book, ''A Saint, More or Less'' (Random House, 2004), a novel, his first, based on the life of Nicole Tavernier, who lived in France during the reign of Henry IV and who was said to perform miracles. It bore his sensibilities about organized religion and received good if brief reviews.
        Henry Anatole Grunwald was born on Dec. 3, 1922, in Vienna, the son of Alfred Grunwald, a reasonably successful librettist of several Viennese operettas, and the former Mila Lowenstein. In the early days of World War II, the Grunwalds left Vienna and settled briefly in Czechoslovakia, then in Paris, where the French suspected that all Germans and Austrians might be potential enemy aliens. Alfred Grunwald was sent to an internment camp for a few weeks. In 1940, after the German troops and armored forces had breached the Maginot Line, the Grunwalds fled south, away from the advancing German army. They stayed briefly in Biarritz, Morocco, and Lisbon before finally coming to New York.
        They settled on the West Side of Manhattan, where Henry attended Haaren High School, at 10th Avenue and 59th Street, where he started a student magazine called Variety and served as editor in chief. It consisted of 18 typewritten mimeographed pages and lasted for two issues.
        After high school, he abandoned his plans to become an engineer and sought a place in letters. Since N.Y.U. had an undergraduate program in journalism, he decided to go there. But he quickly concluded that undergraduate journalism courses were ''a waste of time'' and switched his major to philosophy, where he studied with both Sidney Hook and James Burnham, who were among the best-known philosophers of their day.
        He also became editor of the N.Y.U. school newspaper, The Washington Square Bulletin, and at one point issued some scathing criticism of Clare Boothe Luce, who was the wife of Henry Luce, his future employer. But this did not prevent him from getting a part-time copy boy's job at Time magazine, which paid him $4.50 for each of the three nights a week that he worked.
        He developed story ideas in this lowly position and peppered his boss with them. In the 1950's Mr. Grunwald tried very hard to immerse himself in American culture, even taking an extended vacation to the Midwest, to get a better sense of his adopted country.
        When Mr. Grunwald retired, President Reagan named him ambassador to Austria. He enjoyed his return to Vienna. However, Kurt Waldheim, Austria's president, was under attack for his role in World War II, in which he served as a lieutenant in the German army.
        Mr. Waldheim, who in the 1980's had served as United Nations secretary general, vigorously denied the charge that he had engaged in war crimes while stationed in the Balkans, but the United States placed him on its list of undesirable aliens. Mr. Grunwald said he would go to all state functions at which Mr. Waldheim officiated, but would not attend strictly social events. He returned to the United States after serving two years in Vienna.
        In his later years, Mr. Grunwald kept active but was limited by his poor vision, which was caused by macular degeneration. He started to notice it as he finished his autobiography and in another book, ''Twilight,'' published by Knopf in 1999, he explained how he invoked humor to help deal with the effects of the disease. He said he once mistook a statue of a monkey in a Paris restaurant for the maître d', and on another occasion he greeted Princess Diana, whom he did not know, because he thought she was Diane Sawyer, whom he did.
        Mr. Grunwald's first wife, the former Beverly Suser, whom he married in 1953, died in 1981. In 1987 he married Louise Melhado. She survives him, as do three children by his first wife: Mandy, of Washington, D.C.; Lisa Grunwald Adler, of Manhattan; and Peter, also of Manhattan; a stepson, Bob Savitt, of Greenwich, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
      