
        Sumner Gerard, a former Montana cattle rancher and legislator who served as ambassador to Jamaica in the 1970's, died on Feb. 24 in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Gerard, 88, was a former resident of Montana and New York.
        His death was announced by his son, also named Sumner.
        Mr. Gerard was a scion of an old New York family who gave their name to Gerard Avenue in the Bronx. He was born in Melville, N.Y., graduated from the Groton School, and received a B.A. in 1937 and an M.A. in 1939 from Trinity College, Cambridge University.
        In World War II, he served in the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, where he reached the rank of captain in intelligence. He became a principal in the family's real estate interests in Manhattan, Long Island and New Jersey, then called the Aeon Realty Company.
        After the war he also established himself in Montana business and Republican politics. He was a member of the State Legislature in the 1950's and 1960's, and served as minority leader in both houses.
        Mr. Gerard was a cattle rancher as well as a mining executive for Newmont Resources and a director of Cardinal Petroleum, both of Billings.
        In 1969, the Nixon administration sent him to Rome as a delegate to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, after which he directed the American aid mission in Tunisia until 1974. He was ambassador in Jamaica from then until 1977.
        Moving to Florida, he was active in underwater expeditions and became an adjunct professor of maritime archaeology at the University of Miami.
        In addition to his son, a resident of Queens, Mr. Gerard is survived by four daughters, Jenny G. Brown of Manhattan; Molly Gerard of Bellevue, Wash.; Helen Gerard of Paris; and Anne Gerard of West Hartford, Conn. Their mother, Louise Grosvenor Gerard, from whom he was divorced in 1966, died in 1987.
        Mr. Gerard was also divorced, in 2004, from his second wife, Teresa Dabrowska Gerard of New York. Also surviving are a brother, C.H. Coster Gerard, and a half-brother, John Train, both of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
      