
        Sergiu Comissiona, a well-traveled conductor best known in the United States for his work with the Baltimore and Houston Symphony Orchestras and in New York for brief stints as music director of the New York City Opera and the American Symphony Orchestra, died early Saturday in Oklahoma City, where he was to conduct a concert that night. He was 76.
        The cause appears to have been a heart attack or a stroke, said his press representative, Josephine Hemsing.
        In Baltimore, as music director of the orchestra from 1969 to 1984, Mr. Comissiona achieved a reputation as an orchestra builder. Steven Wigler, a critic of The Baltimore Sun, wrote that ''the modern Baltimore Symphony was created by Sergiu Comissiona.'' In Houston, from 1978 to 1987, his work met with similar praise, but not without a degree of skepticism.
        In contrast to those extended tenures, Mr. Comissiona stayed less than two years as music director of the City Opera, where he took over in 1987 after many guest appearances. Surprised by the announcement of Beverly Sills's resignation as general director in 1988, he announced that he would leave at the end of the year.
        ''I especially enjoyed the contact with American singers,'' he said at the time, ''but a new regime should have a chance to make its own plans.'' In that new regime, the general director happened to be a conductor himself, Christopher Keene.
        Mr. Comissiona led the American Symphony, the orchestra that Leopold Stokowski built, from 1978 to 1982.
        He was active as a guest conductor from the beginning of his career to the end. He was scheduled to conduct a concert by the Oklahoma City Philharmonic on Saturday evening as well as a concert with the cellist Yo-Yo Ma at the Casals Festival in Puerto Rico next Saturday. He lived in New York, where he is survived by his wife, Robinne Comissiona; a sister, Milly Barbalata; and a niece, Jeanine Schayes.
        Sergiu Comissiona was born in Bucharest, Romania, in 1928. He studied at the conservatory there and divided his early career between conducting and playing violin in ensembles.
        He made his debut at the Romanian State Opera in 1946, with Gounod's ''Faust,'' and was principal conductor of the company from 1955 to 1959.
        After fleeing the Communist regime and emigrating to Israel in 1959, he directed the Haifa Symphony until 1966, and in 1960 he founded the Ramat Gan Chamber Orchestra, which he led until 1967. He made his American debut with the Philadelphia Orchestra in 1965 and moved to the Unites States in 1968. He and his wife became American citizens on July 4, 1976, to celebrate the bicentennial.
        Although he began his career largely in the opera house and remained active there in later years, he was primarily thought of as an orchestral conductor. In addition to his Israeli and American posts, he served as music director of the Goteborg Symphony in Sweden, the Helsinki Philharmonic, the Madrid Radio and Television Symphonic Orchestra and the Vancouver Symphony.
        His repertory in both symphony and opera tended toward the Romantic and the early 20th century. He was especially fond of big, lush showpieces, like Saint-Saens's ''Organ'' Symphony and Holst's ''Planets,'' and he rendered them with flair.
      