
        George Scott, who in 1939 with other blind youths formed the exuberant gospel group that earned raucous renown as the Blind Boys of Alabama, died on Wednesday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 75.
        The death was announced by Clarence Fountain, another original member of the group. The cause was complications of diabetes and a heart condition, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Scott was the booming baritone of a vocal ensemble known for its rousing style of shouting and harmonizing to praise Jesus. In each of the last four years, the group won a Grammy; later this month it will release a new album, ''Atom Bomb,'' on which Mr. Scott is lead singer on several songs.Along with Mr. Fountain and Jimmy Carter, Mr. Scott was one of the founding members of the group at the Alabama Institute for the Negro Blind in Talladega, Ala. Mr. Fountain left for nearly a decade in the 1970's to pursue a solo career, then returned. Other members have changed from time to time over the last 66 years.
        The Blind Boys came to epitomize what is known as jubilee singing, a livelier breed of gospel music than the rather staid forms that had set in by the end of the 19th century. They made it zestier still by adding jazz and blues idioms and turning up the volume, creating a sound that sometimes sounded like the like rock'n' roll that grew out of it.
        Their 35 or so albums, made for perhaps 15 record companies, may have swung and shook, but they remained stalwartly sacred.
        ''Way back in the day, when Little Richard and Sam Cooke went rock 'n' roll, we had plenty of offers to do the same,'' Mr. Carter said last year in an interview with The Birmingham News in Alabama. ''But we're soldiers for God, and we'll be that until we die.''
        The group won for ''Spirit of the Century'' in 2001, ''Higher Ground'' in 2002, ''Go Tell It on the Mountain'' in 2003 and ''There Will Be a Light'' in 2004.
        George Lewis Scott was born in Notasulga, Ala., on March 18, 1929. Blind from birth, he was sent to the school for the blind to learn Braille and receive vocational training. In 1936 he met the other founding members, who were also in the glee club. In 1939 they formed a group and named it Happy Land Jubilee Singers.
        An initial problem was the principal's reluctance to let the youths leave campus, but their popularity the few times he did prompted them to slip away permanently in May 1944. An article in The News and Observer of Raleigh, N.C., said the principal had tried to persuade Mr. Scott's mother to make him stay in school.
        '''He's gone,' my mother told him,'' Mr. Scott said in his interview with the paper. '''His mind is made up, and I'll let him try. He can always come home if he fails.'''
        Mr. Scott added that he was sure he had made the right decision.
        ''Back then, you'd see a blind person, and they'd be begging on the street with a cup,'' he said ''I did not want to do that. And school was kind of a prison, kind a rough. They taught us to cane chairs, make brooms and mops, but we couldn't see making no money doing that. So we left there, out on our own.''
        The group changed their name when they encountered Five Blind Boys of Mississippi from the Piney Woods School for the Deaf and Blind. They became the Five Blind Boys of Alabama. (Their number oscillated over the years, causing them to drop the five.) The two groups squared off in epic battles of the bands, driving audiences into pandemonium with their hard-edged gospel shouting.
        Mr. Scott is survived by his wife, Ludie Lewis Mann Scott; his mother, Hassie Lou Scott; and his sister, Benzie Jackson.
        Mr. Scott liked to talk about how the Blind Boys recorded a song by the Rolling Stones, ''Just Wanna See His Face,'' and how the Stones did ''The Last Time,'' a Blind Boys' original. He professed to be upset, until he laughed and said,''They took a gospel song of mine and made it into rock 'n' roll.''
      