
        Richard P. Godwin, a former engineering executive who tried during the Reagan administration to reform the Defense Department's buying practices, died on March 3 in San Rafael, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of progressive supranuclear palsy, a degenerative disease of the brainstem, his son Kent said.
        In 1986, Mr. Godwin left the Bechtel Corporation to become the Defense Department's first under secretary for acquisition. The position had been created by a special commission headed by David Packard, chairman of Hewlett-Packard, to curb the excessive prices the military paid for items like claw hammers and coffeepots, and to coordinate the efforts of 150,000 acquisition officers who carried out 15 million purchases a year.
        A year later, Mr. Godwin resigned in frustration, complaining, ''I can't make anything stick,'' and saying bitterly that ''I had the authority to write a letter.''
        In 1988, Mr. Godwin retired to Northern California, where he converted 40 acres of his Moss Oak Ranch, in Healdsburg, to an award-winning vineyard. He was also associate producer of two successful Broadway musical revivals, ''Crazy for You'' (1992) and ''Kiss Me, Kate'' (1999).
        Richard Philip Godwin was born on March 21, 1922, in Clifton, N.J., to Paul and Leila Godwin and was reared in New Britain, Conn. After earning a bachelor's degree in engineering at Yale University, he was an officer in the Navy in World War II.
        In 1947, he married Reatha Trumble. She survives him, along with their children, Richard Jeffrey Godwin of Rockville, Md., Lauren Godwin DeConde of Novato, Calif., Peggy Godwin Bettini of San Rafael, Calif., and Kent Francis Godwin of Santa Rosa, Calif; a brother, Paul A. Godwin of Clinton, Conn.; a sister, Ruth Godwin Travers of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.
        After the war, Mr. Godwin worked as a machine-tool designer, a metallurgist, a reactor engineer for the Atomic Energy Commission and project director for the development of the Savannah, the first nuclear-powered cargo and passenger ship.
        He joined Bechtel in 1961 and was a vice president, a director and eventually president of Bechtel Group Inc., a division of the corporation.
      