
        Danny Gardella, a former outfielder for the New York Giants who challenged baseball's reserve clause in a 1947 federal lawsuit, an early chapter in the labor-management skirmishes that ultimately brought free agency and multimillion-dollar player contracts, died last Sunday at his home in Yonkers. He was 85.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Al said.
        A native of Manhattan and a former minor leaguer, Gardella was signed by the Giants off a shipyard ball club during the 1944 season. In 1945, he hit 18 home runs as a regular.
        But the Giants had little need for him in spring training in 1946, when rosters were brimming with players returning from World War II military service. With another assignment to the minors looming, Gardella joined the newly formed Mexican League, whose generous salaries lured more than a dozen major leaguers, including pitchers Sal Maglie and Max Lanier and catcher Mickey Owen.
        In April 1946, the baseball commissioner, Happy Chandler, imposed a ban of at least five years on all the players who had gone to the Mexican League. The players quickly became disillusioned by the Mexican League, but Chandler refused to take them back, either in the major or minor leagues.
        In October 1947, unable to get a baseball job in the United States after playing with the Vera Cruz team of the Mexican League, Gardella sued the baseball hierarchy and the Giants in United States District Court in New York, seeking $300,000 in damages.
        His lawyer, Frederic A. Johnson, charged that baseball was unlawfully depriving Gardella of his livelihood and that it was violating federal antitrust law through the reserve clause, which bound a player to his team until he was traded or released.
        The case was dismissed in July 1948 by a federal judge who cited a 1922 Supreme Court ruling that found baseball was not a business engaged in interstate commerce within the meaning of federal antitrust law. But in February 1949, a federal appeals court, in a 2-to-1 ruling, sent the case back to District Court and ordered a full trial on Gardella's contentions.
        In June 1949, faced with the prospect of a courtroom defeat, Chandler offered amnesty to the players who had gone to Mexico. Four months later, warned by his lawyer that he faced a long and costly legal battle, Gardella dropped his lawsuit. He said later that he received a $60,000 settlement from baseball.
        Gardella signed with the St. Louis Cardinals, but was sent to the minors after one at-bat in 1950 and never again played major league baseball. He worked in a warehouse after leaving the game.
        In addition to his son Al, Gardella is survived by his sons Daniel and Arthur; seven daughters, Cheryl Baldwin, June L. Ricciardi, Bonnie Sherry, Katherine A. DeBiase, Carol Gardella, Christine DePinto and Gina Elmes; a brother, Al, who played for the Giants in 1945; two sisters, Lillian Mangini and Rita Franco; and 27 grandchildren. His wife, Katherine, died in 2004.
        After Gardella faded from the baseball scene, the Supreme Court rejected two challenges to the reserve clause, most notably the case brought in the 1970's by Curt Flood, the Cardinals outfielder.
        But the players did win free agency in 1976 after a baseball arbitrator -- ruling in a case brought by pitchers Dave McNally and Andy Messersmith -- found that players could leave their teams after playing out their contracts.
        Reflecting on his lawsuit in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in the early 1990's, Gardella took pride in having brought his court challenge.
        ''I feel I let the whole world know that the reserve clause was unfair,'' he said. ''It had the odor of peonage, even slavery.''
      