
        Fred G. Burke, who oversaw sweeping changes in the financing and accountability of public schools as the commissioner of education for Rhode Island and then New Jersey in the 1970's and early 80's, died Friday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Milford, Pa.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said his wife, Carol Sterling.
        A political scientist and African-affairs specialist with a reputation for getting things done, Dr. Burke had written books, taught in colleges, served as a United Nations consultant, directed the training of the first Peace Corps volunteers and been Rhode Island's top education official for more than three years when, in 1974, Gov. Brendan T. Byrne appointed him commissioner of education in New Jersey.
        It was like stepping into the center of a storm. Over the next eight years, Dr. Burke, a Democrat, became a target of teachers' unions, school boards, disgruntled taxpayers and political foes as he pushed for accountability by students, teachers and administrators, while New Jersey imposed its first income tax to reverse the slide of a school system that discriminated against children in poorer districts.
        Standing his ground, Dr. Burke was instrumental in persuading the Legislature to pass a 1975 law calling for a ''thorough and efficient'' education for the state's 1.5 million students. It mandated testing and monitoring, annual evaluations for tenured teachers and yearly reviews for every school. Students squirmed, and the New Jersey Education Association, the 85,000-member teachers' union, objected.
        So did the State Board of Education, local school boards, legislative opponents and other critics, who said tests were no guarantee of learning, that central authority threatened academic freedom and the autonomy of school districts, and that teachers and schools might be unfairly penalized. But Dr. Burke won support among many parents, especially after the scores showed improvement late in his tenure.
        Beyond performance and accountability, the problems with schools in New Jersey -- and across the country -- included too little money, and wildly disparate budgets in the patchwork of rich and poor school districts, with money largely coming from local property taxes, supplemented by state aid.
        In a landmark 1973 ruling, the State Supreme Court said the financing system violated New Jersey's constitutional mandate for a ''thorough and efficient'' education for all children, because poorer districts were unable to give their schools adequate support. The constitutional phrase -- bland and powerful and all but ignored -- provided the rationale, and in 1976, after a long and bitter fight, the Legislature and Governor Byrne pushed through the state's first income tax.
        It was to provide millions in ''equalization aid,'' to level the playing field for rich and poor districts. But much of the $800 million raised in the first year went not to schools but to homeowners as rebates to make the tax more palatable. Dr. Burke had no direct role in the adoption of the unpopular tax, but as the personification of the state school system he became a natural target of its critics.
        In 1982, the newly elected Gov. Thomas H. Kean, a Republican, appointed a replacement for Dr. Burke. In a departing interview, the commissioner said there had been dramatic improvements in the schools. But, citing a faltering economy and sharply rising teachers' pensions and other costs, he acknowledged that there had been too little money, and that the gap between rich and poor districts had only grown wider.
        In 1990, the New Jersey Supreme Court ordered the state to ensure that the poorest cities spend as much on their children's education as wealthy suburbs spent. The suit, known as Abbott v. Burke, by 20 students in East Orange, Jersey City, Camden and Irvington, was filed in 1981 against Dr. Burke as education commissioner, and though he was named as the defendant he regarded the outcome as a victory.
        ''He was so happy to lose that,'' his wife recalled. ''It was the beginning of equitable financing for the schools of New Jersey.''
        Fred George Burke was born in Collins, N.Y., on Jan. 1, 1926. He was in the Army Air Forces in World War II and served in the Korean War. He graduated from Williams College in 1953, and at Princeton received a master's in 1955 and a doctorate in 1958. Over the next 12 years, he taught political science at Ohio Wesleyan University, Syracuse University and the State University of New York at Buffalo.
        During that time, he traveled often to Africa, wrote six books on African affairs, was a consultant to the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa and directed the training of Peace Corps volunteers in East Africa. From 1971 to 1974, he was the commissioner of education for Rhode Island, instituting innovations that included full state funding of public schools -- with money raised from the state's first income tax, adopted in 1972 -- and a statewide salary scale for teachers.
        After resigning as New Jersey education commissioner, he joined the University of Connecticut as vice president for graduate education and research and dean of the graduate school, and in 1992 became a senior fellow at the Phelps Stokes Fund. His last book, ''Public Education: Who's In Charge?'' (Praeger, 1991) argued for a national education policy.
        In addition to Ms. Sterling, whom he married in 1985, Mr. Burke is survived by three sons, Fritz, of Union, Me.; Daniel, of Bangor, Me.; and Adam, of Arlington, Mass.; a daughter, Rebecca Burke, of Washington; two sisters, Marlene Johnston, of Roopville, Ga., and Ellen Van Note, of Chapel Hill, N.C.; and four grandchildren. Two earlier marriages ended in divorce.
        Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.
      