
        Sy Wexler, an award-winning documentary filmmaker whose educational movies -- from ''Squeak the Squirrel'' to ''Teeth Are for Life'' -- flickered for decades in darkened classrooms around the world, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in Hollywood.
        The cause was cancer and the neurological disease diffuse Lewy body syndrome, his family said.
        For a generation of baby boomers, Mr. Wexler's films were as dependable a classroom ritual as the duck-and-cover drill. Usually from 11 to 28 minutes long and shot in 16-millimeter black and white, they were as much a part of education in the postwar decades as the Internet and interactive CD-ROM's are today.
        Few of the films had catchy titles. There was ''High Blood Pressure,'' ''Congestive Heart Failure'' and ''Career: Medical Technologist.'' There was ''Early Marriage,'' ''Fertilization and Birth'' and ''Happy Family Planning.'' There was ''Fire Science,'' ''Smoking and Heart Disease'' and ''Venereal Disease: Why Do We Still Have It?''
        But in the 50's and 60's, movies like these were an essential part of how science, in particular the delicate subject of sex education, was taught. In hundreds of films, both live-action and animated, Mr. Wexler brought to life obscure processes like the metabolization of protein (''How a Hamburger Turns Into You''), the problem-solving abilities of animals (''Squeak the Squirrel'') and the nature of human creativity (''Wondering About Things'').
        Among his other films were ''The Great Rights,'' about the Bill of Rights; ''Tell Me Where to Turn,'' a guide to using social service agencies; and ''One and Two and Three,'' for teaching retarded children to count.
        Simon Wexler was born in Manhattan on Oct. 6, 1916, and studied chemistry at the City College of New York. He was a cameraman with the Army Signal Corps in World War II, working with the director Frank Capra on the well-known documentary series ''Why We Fight.''
        After the war, Mr. Wexler and a partner, Bob Churchill, started Churchill-Wexler Films, based in Hollywood. Overseeing a staff of animators, technicians and editors, Mr. Wexler worked as producer, director and screenwriter, sometimes as cameraman and occasionally as talent scout (his son Howard appeared in several of his films). At the studio, the daily routine included a break at 4 for tea, generally prepared by the mailman as part of his afternoon round.
        After Mr. Churchill left the company in 1961, Mr. Wexler started Wexler Film Productions. From the late 60's on, he concentrated on medical films, including ''Complete Dentures,'' ''Clinical Applications of Microporous Tape'' and ''The Case of a Persian Student With Painless Hemoptysis.''
        The films were one way that news of medical advances was disseminated: in the days before Power Point, doctors often commissioned movies from Mr. Wexler to accompany their presentations at professional meetings. To illuminate medical subjects visually, Mr. Wexler might photograph the behavior of cells through the lens of a microscope or take his camera into the operating room to film surgery in progress.
        Mr. Wexler is survived by his wife, the former Helen Rosalind Nager, whom he married in 1942; two sons: Howard, a filmmaker, of Los Angeles, and David, a film preservationist, of Santa Barbara; and three grandchildren.
        Many of Mr. Wexler's films won awards, including prizes from the Biological Photographers Association and the International Scientific Film Festival. He received a blue ribbon from the American Film Festival for ''Varicose Veins.''
      