
        Herbert L. Seegal, whose analytical approach to courting shoppers at R.H. Macy & Company helped start the chain's move to a more upscale market in the 1970's and who trained several of its future leaders, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his nephew, Frederic M. Seegal.
        As R.H. Macy's president and chief operating officer from 1972-80, Mr. Seegal made stocking his stores a diagnostic exercise. While many other department store executives relied largely on their personal tastes and instincts, he sought facts, figures, context and demographics.
        At one point, his analysis revealed that neckties containing red accounted for roughly 40 percent of tie sales, although they made up a smaller share of the stock. Stores began changing their offerings accordingly.
        In another example, during a period of high gasoline prices, he instructed his staff to find gas caps with locks, to prevent other drivers from stealing fuel from his customers' cars.
        Among the executives he trained at Macy's was Edward S. Finkelstein, known for transforming Macy's reputation with upscale concepts like The Cellar, a gourmet destination opened in 1971.
        Herbert Leonard Seegal was born on Aug. 13, 1915, in Brookline, Mass., and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1937.
        He started his career at R.H. White's in Boston, then affiliated with Filene's, where his brother, Sam Seegal, was later an executive.
        He joined Thalhimers in 1941. He was vice president in charge of general merchandising when Macy's lured him away in 1953, an unusual move for a company that preferred to promote from within.
        From 1962-71, he was president of Bamberger's, the New Jersey department store chain that was then a division of R.H. Macy. His work there earned him a promotion to vice chairman of Macy's in 1971 and president in 1972.
        After retiring from Macy's in 1980, he worked for 16 years as an international retail consultant, advising retailers like Selfridges in England, Tokyu in Japan and Coles Myer in Australia.
        He is survived by his wife, Juanita; and two daughters, Jane L. Seegal of Brookeville, Md., and Norma A. Seegal of Dania Beach, Fla. His marriage to Dorothy Goldstein ended in divorce.
      