
        Dick Radatz, a dominant relief pitcher of the 1960's for the Boston Red Sox who was known as the Monster for his overpowering fastballs and fearsome physique, died Wednesday at his home in South Easton, Mass. He was 67.
        His death was announced by his son, Dick Jr., who said his father evidently had had a heart attack that resulted in a fall down a flight of stairs and a head injury. The precise cause of death was not determined by the medical examiner and no autopsy was scheduled, he said.
        Radatz was a durable and decidedly imposing presence. He was 6 feet 6 inches and 230 pounds, his fastballs arrived at 95 miles an hour, and he commonly pitched multiple innings in a game in relief.
        Appearing with mediocre Red Sox teams from 1962 to midseason 1966, Radatz led the American League in saves twice (though it was not an official statistic at the time), was a two-time All-Star and averaged more than one strikeout per inning. He holds the major league record for most strikeouts in a season as a reliever, with 181 in 79 games, comprising 157 innings, in 1964. He had a 16-9 record that year for an eighth-place team.
        Radatz became known as the Monster after overwhelming Mickey Mantle at Yankee Stadium.
        ''I had a lot of success with Mantle,'' Radatz told Bob Cairns in ''Pen Men,'' a history of relief pitching. ''I'd just start him out with fastballs around the waist and go up the ladder. For some reason he just couldn't move on it. I struck him out in Yankee Stadium with the bases loaded and boom, ba-boom, ba-boom, he started cussing and Monster came out about the tenth word. He was cussing so loud that the press heard it.''
        But Radatz experienced control problems in 1965 and was traded to the Cleveland Indians in June 1966. He never regained his form, pitching later for the Chicago Cubs, the Detroit Tigers and the Montreal Expos. He retired after the 1969 season with a 52-43 record, 122 saves and a 3.13 earned run average in 381 games, all in relief.
        Radatz, a native of Detroit signed by the Red Sox out of Michigan State, was about to return for another season as pitching coach for the North Shore Spirit, an independent league team based in Lynn, Mass.
        In addition to his son, Dick Jr., of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., Radatz is survived by his wife, Charlene, and his daughters Leigh Radatz of Framingham, Mass., and Kristine Walworth of Milford, Mass.
        Bill Monbouquette, a pitching teammate with the Red Sox, recalled how Radatz seemed unhittable in his peak years at Fenway Park. ''He had no off-speed pitch,'' Monbouquette told The Boston Globe, ''but he threw 95, 96, he had great location and he'd come right at you, get you 0 and 2 and just blow you away.''
      