
        Sol M. Linowitz, a confidant of Democratic presidents who became renowned for his achievements in each of his three careers -- lawyer, businessman and diplomat -- died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 91.
        His death was reported by his family.
        A courtly and graceful figure on the Washington scene for nearly four decades, Mr. Linowitz was one of the handful of people who truly fit the description ''wise man,'' applied to those in Washington whose counsel was regularly sought by presidents, senators and others in power. Among the complex jobs he filled were negotiator for the Panama Canal treaties and special presidential envoy for the Middle East.
        When he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998, President Bill Clinton told the White House audience that getting ''advice from Sol Linowitz on international diplomacy is like getting trumpet lessons from the angel Gabriel.''
        As a young lawyer and businessman he achieved acclaim as a principal developer of the Xerox Corporation and he became its chairman. His first call from the White House seeking advice came from President John F. Kennedy. Senator Robert F. Kennedy also consulted Mr. Linowitz and once urged him to run for governor of New York. Mr. Linowitz later said that he did not like the idea of asking people to vote for him, especially since he had no great quarrel with the state's leadership under the incumbent Republican he would have to challenge, Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Mr. Linowitz over the years became a trusted counsel to Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter before he served in that role for Mr. Clinton. Although most of his years in Washington were as a private lawyer, he was often called upon to take on delicate diplomatic tasks.
        He served in the government as a lawyer in the Office of Price Administration during World War II, but he was first lured to a senior policy post by President Johnson who made him the United States representative to the Organization of American States, the international organization that was the principal conclave for Washington to deal with Latin America.
        For Mr. Linowitz, his term at the O.A.S. from 1966 to 1969 was the beginning of an involvement for the remainder of his life with the region's political and economic issues and its relations with the United States.
        His autobiography, ''The Making of a Public Man'' (Little Brown, 1985), recounted several anecdotes of President Johnson at his cajoling and bullying best. He noted that when Mr. Johnson obliquely criticized him in front of several cabinet members early in his tenure, he sought a private conversation in which he told the president that he would resign if that happened again.
        Mr. Linowitz wrote that he had determined that the best way to do his government job was to always believe and let others know that he could ''pick up his marbles and go home.''
        He wrote that President Johnson replied: ''Hell, boy, you're getting upset over nothing.'' After that the president was generally solicitous of him, except for one occasion when Mr. Linowitz told him he thought the Vietnam War was going badly and Mr. Johnson snapped, ''I don't want you to talk to me about that subject.''
        In 1977, President Carter asked Mr. Linowitz to be one of the two negotiators for the Panama Canal treaties with Ellsworth Bunker, who had been ambassador to Vietnam. It was a long political fight and one that earned Mr. Linowitz the unending enmity of many conservatives, notably Jesse Helms, then a Republican senator from North Carolina who led the opposition to turning the canal back to Panama.
        Once driving down Constitution Avenue, Mr. Linowitz saw himself hanging in effigy as part of a protest by conservative opponents of the treaty. He said that to get through what was a particularly painful time he lived by a phrase from ''The Aeneid'' by Virgil, translated as: ''One day it will please us to remember even this.''
        In 1979 he was named special ambassador to the Middle East by President Carter and found himself embroiled in the complex issues, notably Palestinian autonomy, that followed the Camp David peace accords. When he was asked to take the job, he told President Carter that he was uncertain if his heavy involvement in Jewish organizations and causes would be an obstacle.
        He noted that his predecessors in the position, Robert S. Strauss and Henry A. Kissinger, were Jewish but were more secular. His concerns were largely allayed when he learned that one of his biggest supporters was Ashfraf Gorbal, Egypt's ambassador to Washington.
        As a lawyer in Rochester, he became friends with Joe Wilson, who owned the Haloid Corporation and who had come across a promising invention called electrophotography. Within a dozen years, they had built a company they called Xerox that changed the way the world did business.
        The inventor Chester F. Carlson had devised a way to copy documents, and by 1956, Mr. Linowitz, as vice president in charge of patents, obtained all rights to the Carlson invention.
        Mr. Linowitz was named Xerox's chairman in 1960 and the next year the company's revenue surged to $176 million. By the time he resigned in 1966 to accept President Johnson's ambassadorial appointment, the corporation's annual operating revenue had reached half a billion dollars.
        Mr. Linowitz was a partner in the Coudert Brothers international law firm from 1969 until his retirement in 1994. Over the years, he become something of a preacher to lawyers. In speeches, and eventually a book, he expressed considerable dismay about what he said were the changing mores in the legal profession. His recommendations included fundamental changes in legal education, including greater emphasis on ethics and humanities, some of which were adopted at his own alma mater, Cornell Law School, where he was a trustee.
        He also took an interest in the nation's cities, serving as president of the National Urban League.
        Mr. Linowitz is survived by his wife, Toni, and by four daughters: June Linowitz of Bethesda, Md.; Anne Mozersky of Ottawa; Jan Linowitz of Wynnewood, Pa.; and Roni Jolles of Great Falls, Va.; and eight grandchildren. Other survivors are three brothers, R. Robert Linowes and David S. Linowes, both of Chevy Chase, Md., and Harry M. Linowes of Bethesda.
        Sol Myron Linowitz was born Dec. 7, 1913, in Trenton to immigrants from Russia. His father was a wholesale fruit merchant who suffered badly in the Depression and never fully recovered. Mr. Linowitz went to Hamilton College, in upstate New York, one of only a handful of Jews at the small liberal arts college. He said that forced him to look more closely at his religious heritage.
        While at Hamilton, he appeared in college productions and was urged to take up the stage professionally by Alexander Woolcott, then the college's drama director. He helped meet his expenses by playing violin in the Utica Symphony Orchestra and summer dance bands.
        As part of his scholarship he was given a job to read to Elihu Root, the former secretary of state and an alumnus of Hamilton, who had chosen to spend his final years at the college. Root interrupted the reading once to ask what Mr. Linowitz would do when he graduated. Mr. Linowitz said he was considering being either a lawyer or a rabbi.
        ''Become a lawyer,'' Mr. Linowitz said he was told. ''I have found that a lawyer needs twice as much religion as a minister or rabbi.''
        Correction:  March 31, 2005, Thursday  An obituary of the businessman and diplomat Sol M. Linowitz on March 19 misspelled the surname of a critic and essayist who was an alumnus of Mr. Linowitz's alma mater, Hamilton College, and misstated the man's postgraduate affiliation with it. The alumnus was Alexander Woollcott, not Woolcott. He was visiting the campus when he saw Mr. Linowitz in a student production and urged him to take up the stage professionally; he was not the director of the school's drama program.
      