
        John H. Pickering, a founding partner of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, one of Washington's most prominent international law firms, died in the capital on Saturday. He was 89 and a resident of Bethesda, Md.
        His death, after a stroke, was announced by the firm, where he had continued to practice as a senior counsel after retirement as a partner in 1993.
        Mr. Pickering was best known for his role in the appeals phase of cases with national significance. Among the most notable was the 1952 ''steel seizure'' episode, which defined limits on presidential authority.
        That case arose during the Korean War when, with a strike by steelworkers looming, President Harry S. Truman issued an executive order putting Commerce Secretary Charles Sawyer in command of the steel mills. A federal district judge ruled the order unconstitutional and blocked the secretary with a preliminary injunction.
        In the legal maneuvering that followed, Mr. Pickering was one of the lawyers who drafted the industry's quick response to the government's appeal from the injunction. The Supreme Court, by 6 to 3, sided with the industry's argument that Congress was the only body that could have imposed such a takeover.
        Mr. Pickering had a long record of pro bono work for the poor and elderly and against racial discrimination. Cases in which he was involved included those dealing with civil rights in Mississippi, doctor-assisted suicide, race as an admissions factor at the University of Michigan and, nearly four decades ago, the House's banishing Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr., Democrat of New York.
        John Harold Pickering was born in Harrisburg, Ill., and graduated in 1938 from the University of Michigan, where he received his law degree in 1940. He started his career in New York with Cravath, Swaine & Moore before accepting a clerkship with Justice Frank Murphy of the United States Supreme Court. In World War II, he served in the Navy, advancing to lieutenant commander.
        Back in Washington, he developed a friendship with Lloyd N. Cutler. Their firm, founded in 1962 with 19 lawyers, eventually established branches in New York, London, Paris and Berlin. (It merged in 2004 with a Boston firm to become Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr.)
        Mr. Pickering's many awards included the highest honor bestowed by the American Bar Association, the A.B.A. Medal, which he received in 1999 for ''conspicuous service in the cause of American jurisprudence.''
        He is survived by his wife of 15 years, Helen Patton Wright; two daughters, Victoria Aronoff of Bethesda and Leslie P. Francis of Salt Lake City; a stepson, James S. Wright Jr. of Washington; and five grandchildren. His first wife, Elsa Mueller Pickering, to whom he was married for 47 years, died in 1988.
        Mr. Pickering's courtroom career had an auspicious start. As a former Supreme Court clerk, he was asked in 1946 to represent an indigent before the justices, and so he argued his very first court case before the nation's highest judicial body.
        ''I was brought back to earth the following week,'' he recalled later. ''My second court appearance was a traffic case in the old Municipal Court. I defended a chauffeur on a lane violation, and I lost.''
      