
        Norman Mager, who helped propel an unheralded City College team to the N.I.T. and N.C.A.A. basketball championships in 1950, a feat that thrilled New York only to be tarnished by a point-shaving scandal, died last Thursday at a hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. Mager, who lived in Boca Raton, Fla., and Port Washington, N.Y., was 78.
        The cause was complications of cancer, his son, Scott, said.
        On March 18, 1950, City College defeated top-ranked Bradley, 69-61, at Madison Square Garden to win the National Invitation Tournament. Ten days later, City scored a 71-68 victory over Bradley at the Garden to capture the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, becoming the only team to win both tournaments in the same year.
        Mager, a 6-foot-5 senior, came off the bench during the first half of the N.I.T. championship game to steady a City College squad trailing by 11 points. In the N.C.A.A. title game, he took five stitches in his head from a collision with a Bradley player in the first half but scored 14 points, including the clinching basket with 10 seconds left. The next day, he received an ovation from 4,500 City College students at a campus rally.
        Mager joined the Baltimore Bullets of the N.B.A. after graduating, but his basketball career ended in 1951 after he was arrested, along with six City College teammates, on charges of taking money from gamblers to shave points -- win games by narrower margins than the established betting lines. The scandal involved more than 30 college players, including players from Bradley, Kentucky and Long Island University.
        Mager pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and received a suspended sentence, but the notoriety lingered.
        ''For years, when people on the street asked if I was Norm Mager, I would say no,'' Mager told Robert Lipsyte of The New York Times in 1994. ''I tried to hide out. Got married, moved to the suburbs, raised three kids, didn't mix.''
        Mager was an executive with a janitorial supply company, Perfect Building Maintenance, and retired in 2000 as its president.
        In addition to his son, Scott, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Bernice; his daughters, Stephanie Mager, of Manhattan, and Bess Katz, of Hewlett, N.Y.; his brothers, Marvin, of Boca Raton, and Lonny, of Palm Beach, Fla.; a sister, Shari Haber, of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren.
        ''You're talking about kids, kids, who were busting their humps while the school was making a ton of money,'' Mager said in 1994 while reflecting on the scandal. ''What can I say? We loved the game; we really loved the game. I'm not proud of what I did. And we will never know how great we could have been.''
      