
        Maj. Gen. Winant Sidle, who after the United States invasion of Grenada in 1983 headed a commission charged with recommending ways to allow news coverage of military operations, died Saturday in Southern Pines, N.C. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his wife, Anne Brown Sidle, said.
        After barring journalists from the first two days of the Grenada invasion and restricting their access the next few days, the Reagan administration responded to complaints from reporters and Congress by submitting its policy to public examination.
        Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, asked General Sidle, then a retired Army public affairs officer working as a corporate spokesman for the Martin Marietta Corporation, to form and head a commission, formally known as the Chairman's Panel on Media-Military Relations.
        General Sidle came to the job with long experience dealing with news coverage of military matters. As chief of information in Vietnam from 1967 to 1969, he had to spell out the rules, sometimes related to the disciplining of reporters, of covering a controversial war. From 1969 to 1973, he was chief of information for the Army, and from 1974 to 1975 he was deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs. He received a master's degree in journalism from the University of Wisconsin in 1949.
        The Sidle Commission, as the Grenada panel came to be called, was made up of seven officers and seven journalists. It deliberated and held hearings for five days in February 1984. Taking into account reporters' claims that they had been censored and the military's insistence that it had to protect the secrecy and security of the Grenada mission, the commission concluded by affirming the right of reporters and photographers to report on combat.
        More practically, it recommended that the Defense Department begin planning for news coverage while military operations were being planned and that pools of reporters be created to protect both operational security and the safety of journalists while ensuring coverage in depth.
        Winant Sidle, who was known as Si, was born in Springfield, Ohio, on Sept. 7, 1916, the elder of two sons of Don Rex Sidle, an insurance executive, and Helen Winant Sidle. He grew up in Lansdowne, Pa., and graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., in 1938.
        In 1942, he married Anne Brown, who survives him with their six children, Douglas Winant Sidle, of Richmond, Va.; Peter Brown Sidle, of Alexandria, Va.; Meredith Sidle Hackett of Herndon, Va.; Susan Sidle Callahan, of West Chester, Pa., and Andrew Mullen Sidle, of DeKalb, Ill.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        In December 1940, he enlisted in the Pennsylvania National Guard. His unit was activated one month later, and in 1941 he earned a commission. During World War II, he served in North Africa, Italy -- including the landing at Anzio -- France, Germany and Austria.
        After the war, General Sidle joined the regular Army. He retired in 1975 and afterward went to work for the Association of the United States Army. In 1978, he joined Martin Marietta, where he was director of public relations and later the company's first director of corporate ethics.
        He retired to Southern Pines in 1990.
      