
        Frank Kelly Freas, an artist and illustrator whose work included luminous images of amiable aliens beloved by science-fiction fans, the jug-eared visage of Alfred E. Neuman for Mad magazine and the crew shoulder patch for Skylab I astronauts, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82.
        His wife, Laura Brodian Freas, confirmed his death in an interview with The
        Associated Press.
        Mr. Freas (pronounced Freeze) was best known for the illustrations in more than 300 magazines and books that won him 11 Hugo awards, presented by the World Science Fiction Society and considered among the highest honors for a science-fiction illustrator. His whimsical, highly personalized style was characterized by vibrant colors and a sort of cosmic haze well suited for depicting bejeweled alien princesses. Wrinkles and other details added realism.
        Mr. Freas did not invent Alfred E. Neuman, the gap-toothed champion of adolescent rebellion whose motto was ''What, me worry?'' and who was given to making pronouncements like ''A teacher is someone who talks in our sleep.'' But he told The Virginian-Pilot in 2001 that his illustrations gave ''Alfie'' his personality.
        Mad's freckled mascot was created by Norman Mingo and first appeared in a Mad Reader paperback in December 1954. He next appeared on the cover of Mad in March 1955.
        Mr. Freas started at Mad in February 1957 and by July 1958 was the magazine's new cover artist. He painted most of its covers until October 1962.
        Among his more memorable works was a 1960 painting of a green-tinged Neuman announcing, ''This magazine is revolting.''
        His ''Great Moments in Medicine'' illustration showed a recumbent patient and surrounding family members shocked when presented with a doctor's bill. A barrage of enraged letters from doctors followed. One pointed out that one of the doctor's instruments was a gauge used in aircraft manufacture, a perhaps understandable slip on the part of a science-fiction writer who once spent a week in a nuclear submarine in pursuit of verisimilitude.
        Other works by Mr. Freas ranged from six posters for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration now in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, to portraits of 400 saints for the Franciscans, to classic miniature paintings done in a 16th-century technique. His picture of a werewolf appeared in the movie ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.''
        What became one of his most famous works showed a giant robot holding a dead man in his hand. It first appeared on the cover of the October 1953 issue of Astounding Science Fiction magazine. Years later, two members of the rock group Queen asked Mr. Freas to reprise the image with band members in the robot's hand. In 1977 it appeared on the cover of Queen's album ''News of the World,'' which contains the ubiquitous tune ''We Will Rock You.''
        Frank Kelly Freas, the son of two photographers, was born in Hornell, N.Y., on Aug. 27, 1922, and was raised in Canada. He was hooked on science fiction by the time he was 10. He flirted with medicine and engineering as possible occupations, but drifted toward art and attended classes at the Art Institute of Pittsburgh.
        During World War II, he painted pulchritudinous women on the noses of bombers. An early job was painting internal organs for anatomy textbooks.
        His picture of a satyr on the cover of the November 1950 Weird Tales began 50 years of professional illustrating. His work appeared in magazines like Analog Science Fiction and Fact, and illustrated articles by writers like Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke.
        In an interview with Contemporary Authors, Mr. Freas said he regarded himself as an illustrator rather than an artist.
        ''I prefer storytelling pictures and picture-generating stories,'' he said.
        The New Encyclopedia of Science Fiction called him ''the most popular illustrator in the history of science fiction.''
        Mr. Freas both wrote and illustrated several books, including ''Frank Kelly Freas: The Art of Science Fiction'' (Donning, 1977) and ''Frank Kelly Freas: A Separate Star'' (Greenswamp, 1985).
        Mr. Freas was married to the former Pauline H. Bussard from 1952 until her death in 1987. In addition to Laura, his wife, he is survived by his daughter, Jacqueline; his son, Jeremy; and six grandsons.
        His experience with Mad ended when Mr. Freas was turned down for a raise. He was also a little tired of painting the same grinning face.
        ''Alfred E. Neuman was making me stale,'' he said in an interview in ''The Mad World of William M. Gaines'' by Frank Jacobs (Bantam, 1972). ''I found it difficult to shift my artistic gears from the sublime to the ridiculous and back again.''
      