
        Adrian Kragen, a leading expert on American income tax law, who left a lucrative Hollywood law practice to teach at the University of California, Berkeley, died on Friday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 97.
        His death was announced by his son, Ken Kragen.
        In 1952, Mr. Kragen was working for the firm of Loeb & Loeb as a lawyer for the motion picture industry, representing 11 major studios and handling actors like Mickey Rooney and William Holden.
        That year he was offered a law professorship at the University of California Law School (Boalt Hall), with a salary of $12,500, or one-fifth of what he was earning at Loeb & Loeb. He accepted the offer at once and continued to teach at Boalt Hall for the next half a century.
        As a leading expert on tax law, he argued cases before the United States Supreme Court, drafted legislation, published widely in professional journals and was the co-author with John K. McNulty, a fellow Boalt Hall professor, of a series of books on taxation, among them ''Cases and Materials on Taxation: Individuals, Corporations, Partnerships'' (West Group, 1981); they are considered standard texts in the field.
        Judge David Flinn, a former student, wrote about Professor Kragen on the Web site of the California Alumni Association: ''In 1954, soon after he arrived, the Internal Revenue Service drastically revised the federal tax code, and Adrian became one of the country's leading experts on the new code. Listening to him talk about it was like listening to Einstein talk about the atom.''
        Adrian Alan Kragen was born in San Francisco on June 3, 1907, the elder child of Simon Kragen, who owned a furniture store, and Minnie Kragen. After dropping out of high school during his senior year to take a job with a jewelry company, he was persuaded by a friend to apply to Berkeley, completed high school and in 1927 became the first member of his family to attend college. He graduated from Berkeley in 1931, went on to Boalt and received his law degree in 1934.
        In 1935, he married Billie Bercovich, a professional violinist. She died in 1987. Besides their son, he is survived by a daughter, Robin Merritt, of Moraga, Calif.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        From 1940 to 1944, he was deputy attorney general of California under Earl Warren. When Mr. Warren was elected governor, he urged Mr. Kragen to run for attorney general, but he declined because the office was moving from San Francisco to Sacramento. He decided instead to join Loeb & Loeb, where he became a senior partner.
        At Berkeley he was vice chancellor from 1960 to 1964. He retired from teaching in 1994.
      