
        Bruce McM. Wright, a retired black judge in Manhattan who denounced what he called racism in the criminal justice system and created a furor in the 1970's by setting low bail for many poor and minority suspects, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 86.
        His death was announced by his wife, Elizabeth Davidson-Wright. Justice Wright, who retired at the end of 1994 from State Supreme Court, suffered a heart attack in March 2000.
        Justice Wright spent 25 years on the bench in both criminal and civil cases, gaining a reputation as a scholarly and provocative jurist who sprinkled his opinions with literary quotations.
        But it was in Criminal Court early in his judicial career that he found himself at the center of a storm over his out-of-court remarks and bail policies, which had the effect of releasing many suspects, some of them charged with vicious attacks on police officers.
        ''Turn 'Em Loose Bruce'' was the sobriquet supplied by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, which called him ''the best friend criminals ever had.'' At various times, Mayor John V. Lindsay, who appointed him to the bench in 1970, as well as Mayors Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch and many other politicians, joined the chorus of denunciations.
        But civil libertarians, Legal Aid lawyers and others defended Judge Wright's use of bail as appropriate in the context of its statutory and traditional purpose: to assure the presence at trial of a defendant, who is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
        In setting bail, judges typically weigh a defendant's character, employment, finances and community roots. Also considered are any criminal record, possible danger to the community, the seriousness of the charges and the probable sentence that a conviction would carry, which, if severe enough, might raise the possibility of flight to avoid prosecution.
        While no records were kept on the bail practices of judges, Judge Wright's were not very different from those of his colleagues, lawyers familiar with the courts at the time said, but his decisions were monitored more closely by the police and reporters.
        Judge Wright insisted that bail should not be used punitively, to detain people for the sake of crime prevention or to coerce guilty pleas. He said his aim was to uphold the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, which says ''excessive bail shall not be required.'' For some poor people, he contended, $50 could be excessive.
        Judge Wright also drew angry responses with out-of-court speeches asserting that white judges often did not treat black defendants fairly and that the acquittal of white officers by white juries had given the police ''a license to hunt down blacks and kill them with impunity.''
        While opponents called those remarks intemperate for a judge, many black and Hispanic New Yorkers regarded him as a compassionate counterweight to an overwhelmingly white justice system. In the mid-1970's, only 2 to 3 percent of America's judges were black. The City Bar Association, meanwhile, called his performance on the bench ''decidedly better than average.''
        Judge Wright's perceptions were shaped by his own experiences with racism. He had been a distinguished student, but was turned away from Princeton; he had been a decorated soldier in World War II, but had to serve in segregated units; he had worked for a major New York law firm, but said he was told that he could not hope to become a partner.
        A tall, trim man with angular features and an athlete's confident bearing, he was an amateur painter, an avid reader and the author of three published volumes of poetry. He also wrote ''Black Robes, White Justice'' (Lyle Stuart, 1987), about race and the judiciary.
        Bruce McMarion Wright was born on Dec. 19, 1918, in Princeton, N.J. His father was a baker. He was an excellent student and applied to Princeton, but was dissuaded by an admissions official, who wrote him saying that the school did not discriminate but had ''no colored students'' and advised him that ''a member of your race might feel very much alone.''
        Sixty-five years later, the Princeton graduating class of 2001 made Judge Wright an honorary member.
        In 1936, the young man enrolled at Virginia State, a black college, but was expelled for a prank: changing a headline in a student newspaper from ''Religion Week'' to ''Religion Weak.'' He attended Lincoln University, a predominantly black school in Pennsylvania, and after graduation in 1942 entered the Army.
        He served in a segregated medical unit and was in the third wave of the Normandy invasion in 1944. He won two Purple Hearts and two Bronze Stars.
        In 1946, he enrolled at New York Law School, taking classes at night while working at odd jobs. In his last year, he was a clerk with the prominent firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn. After passing the bar exam in 1950, he asked about his prospects. As he recalled it years later, he was told that there could be no future for him there. A senior partner later voiced doubt that any member would make such a statement.
        Over the next 17 years, Judge Wright practiced law in New York with a number of black firms. In 1967, he was named counsel to the city's Human Resources Administration, and three years later was named to the Criminal Court bench by Mayor Lindsay.
        The judge's bail policies soon became controversial. There was an uproar in 1972, when he twice released on $500 bail a man accused of killing a police officer. Another judge raised the bail to $25,000. The suspect was later convicted of assault and robbery but acquitted of murder. In 1974, Judge Wright released a man accused of kidnapping, rape and the attempted murder of a police officer.
        After repeated protests by the police union, Judge Wright was transferred to Civil Court in 1974 by the city's administrative judge, who denied that the move had anything to do with his bail policies. Judge Wright sued in federal court, seeking reinstatement to Criminal Court. In 1978, as hearings were about to begin, he was transferred back to Criminal Court.
        The bail controversy resumed, and the protests rose to a peak in April 1979, when Judge Wright released without bail a black man charged with slashing the throat of a white decoy officer, Robert Bilodeau.
        Judge Wright noted that the suspect, Jerome Singleton, had no criminal record and had a family and other community ties. He also said prosecutors had offered no compelling reason to ban Mr. Singleton's release. In two trials, Mr. Singleton was found not guilty of attempted murder but was convicted of second-degree assault.
        With little hope that Mayor Koch, a harsh critic, would reappoint him when his 10-year term expired, Judge Wright ran successfully for Civil Court judge in 1979, and was elected a justice of the State Supreme Court in 1982. He served in the court's civil branch for 12 relatively quiet years, until his retirement on Dec. 31, 1994.
        But his opinions, especially about race, remained provocative.
        ''I have never changed my mind about the Eighth Amendment,'' he said a few days before retiring. ''To say that I would've done things differently means to me I would have been a good boy, kept my mouth shut and availed myself of the benefits of the system. I don't think I can do that. I don't think I could ever do that.''
        Besides his wife, Judge Wright's survivors include a brother, Robert, of Willingboro, N.J.; five sons from previous marriages: Geoffrey, a civil court judge in Manhattan, Keith L., a Democratic state assemblyman from Harlem, Alexis, of Chicago, Bruce, of Washington, and Patrick, of Connecticut; a daughter, Tiffany, of Brooklyn; and two grandsons.
        Correction:  March 29, 2005, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Bruce McM. Wright, a New York City judge whose bail policies aroused a furor in the 1970's, misstated the place of residence of his son Patrick. He lives in Harlem, not Connecticut.
      