
        Henry George Greene, an architect and developer who designed more than 80 theaters for stage shows and movies in the 1960's and 70's, died on March 13 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 93.
        His death was announced by his family.
        As consulting architect for the American Broadcasting Company, Mr. Greene built movie houses across the country, from San Francisco to Salt Lake City to Flint, Mich., to Buffalo.
        His creations included the Cine Capri, an 800-seat theater in Phoenix with a vast single screen that made it a showcase for blockbuster movies like Star Wars, which played there for more than a year.
        ''This theater was so popular that when it was closing they had 250,000 signatures to save it, which at the time was the largest petition ever in the state of Arizona,'' said Andreas Fuchs, a theater consultant and co-author of ''Cinema Treasures,'' a survey of America's movie palaces.
        The Cine Capri was torn down in 1998, but multiscreen theaters in Oklahoma City and Scottsdale, Ariz., include large auditoriums that bear its name and replicate its interior.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Greene designed ABC's entertainment center in Los Angeles: a 4.5-acre compound that comprised stores, offices, two movie theaters, a restaurant and a six-level underground garage. Part of the Century City development, it also included a 2,000-seat theater operated by the Shubert Organization in its first foray into California.
        The complex was ABC's West Coast headquarters for almost 30 years, until the network moved to Burbank, Calif., in 2000. It was dismantled last year.
        Mr. Greene was born in New York on Oct. 9, 1911. He worked in construction for his father, a contractor, and studied at New York University's School of Architecture, which closed in 1941.
        He developed more than 1,800 housing units in the New York area, often converting commercial properties like the St. George Hotel in Brooklyn into luxury apartment buildings. In Westchester, he built the Midway Shopping Complex and was co-developer of the Westchester Square Shopping Center.
        His first wife, Mae, died in 1975, and his second wife, Margery Cohen, died in 1993. In addition to his son, Elliott, of Union, N.J., he is survived by a daughter, Karen Berkley of Tallahassee, Fla.; two granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.
      