
        Andrew Toti, a prolific inventor known for designing the Mae West inflatable vest, which kept many downed Allied pilots afloat in World War II, died on March 20 at home in Modesto, Calif. He was 89.
        His death was announced by his daughter, Andrea Pimental.
        Mr. Toti invented his flotation device after acquiring a boat at the age of 16 and juicing up its power, causing his mother to worry because he could not swim. The prototype was filled with duck feathers, he told The Modesto Bee many years later.
        ''That was too bulky, so I switched to air,'' he explained. This version, secured to the body with the help of waist and crotch straps, had two yellow rubber-coated compartments that could be inflated either by blowing on a tube or by pulling cords that released carbon dioxide.
        The War Department paid him $1,600 for the rights to the vest, which wearers nicknamed the Mae West for the chesty movie star whom it made them resemble when inflated.
        One user was George H.W. Bush, shot down over the Pacific piloting a torpedo bomber. In 2004, when a museum of Mr. Toti's inventions opened on his property, the former president sent greetings from ''a grateful Navy man.'' (Zoning problems later caused the museum to be closed.)
        Descendants of the Mae West vest are used on aircraft to this day. Mr. Toti also held more than 500 other patents, among them those for an automated feather plucker, which revolutionized the poultry industry; a grape harvester invented in 1972 for the vintners Ernest and Julio Gallo; lightweight construction beams; several versions of blinds; and a pull tab for soda cans.
        He was also a co-designer of the EndoFlex endotracheal tube, which is used to aid breathing during surgery and was featured on an episode of ''ER'' last November.
        One invention he failed to perfect was a perpetual motion machine, which would deliver an infinite power supply and whose realization, despite the skepticism of physicists, he maintained was possible.
        Mr. Toti once recalled that his father had dismissed inventors as bums ''always wanting an easier way to do things.'' But, in disputing the parentage of his profession, he told The Modesto Bee, ''Invention is the mother of everything.''
        Mr. Toti was born in Visalia, Calif., to Dante and Rene Toti, Italian immigrants who farmed. When he was 9, the family moved to Modesto, where his parents bought a delicatessen and a chicken farm to supply it. That year, inspired by his mother's creation of a tool for eviscerating chickens, he began inventing. His first success was a form of combination lock.
        He attended school through the 10th grade, then dropped out and finished his education through correspondence courses in drafting and mechanical engineering.
        Mr. Toti married four times. Ms. Pimental, of Sacramento, was his daughter from his second wife, Betty Robertson Toti; that marriage ended in divorce. His last wife was Marion Boonas, whom he married in 1964 and who died in 1994.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by a stepson, Raymond Webster of Crescent City, Calif.; one grandchild; and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 16, 2005, Monday  An obituary on March 29 about Andrew Toti, an inventor, referred incompletely to his role in the development of the inflatable life vest, often called a Mae West. The history is recalled today, on Page B7.
      