
        Former Senator Howell Heflin of Alabama, a conservative Democrat who supported civil rights legislation and was sometimes described as the conscience of the Senate, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Sheffield, Ala., near his home in Tuscumbia. He was 83.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Heflin, a large, bearlike man, was chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court before he was elected in 1978 to the Senate, where he served for 18 years.
        Fellow senators often called him Judge Heflin, referring to his probity and his judicious approach to issues. For 13 years, he passed judgment on his colleagues as a senior member or chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics.
        Mr. Heflin voted against the nominations of Clarence Thomas and Robert H. Bork to the United States Supreme Court. He said Mr. Thomas's testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee suggested ''contradictions, lack of scholarship, lack of conviction and instability.''
        In his farewell address on the Senate floor in September 1996, Mr. Heflin noted that he came from ''an ancestral background deeply rooted in the old Confederacy.'' He was a nephew of Senator James T. Heflin, known as Cotton Tom, a vehement segregationist.
        But Howell Heflin said he was ''exceedingly proud'' of his own civil rights record.
        ''It has been publicly stated by black leaders that I was the first senator from my state who believed in and supported the civil rights movement,'' Mr. Heflin said in his farewell speech. ''I worked to secure the extension of the Voting Rights Act; to appoint African-Americans and women to the federal bench and other federal offices; to support historically black colleges; to ensure passage of the civil rights restoration bill; to help pass the fair housing bill; and to establish a national holiday honoring the late Martin Luther King Jr.''
        On civil rights, as on many other issues, Mr. Heflin advocated ''compassionate moderation.'' ''No one of us can remake government or society in our own image,'' he said, and politicians should make it ''a taboo to demonize your political opponents.''
        Howell Thomas Heflin was born in Poulan, Ga., attended public schools in Alabama and graduated from Birmingham-Southern College and the University of Alabama School of Law. He served in the Marine Corps from 1942 to 1946.
        As chairman of the ethics committee, he led an investigation of five senators involved with Charles H. Keating Jr., a savings and loan executive. The panel rebuked Senator Alan Cranston, Democrat of California, in 1991 after finding that he had intervened with federal regulators to help Mr. Keating.
        ''It's not a pleasant task to have to judge your colleagues,'' Mr. Heflin said at the time. He estimated that he had joined in more than 1,000 formal opinions advising senators whether an action they were contemplating would violate federal law or Senate rules.
        Mr. Heflin often agonized over the arguments for and against legislation. Colleagues sometimes said he seemed indecisive.
        Mr. Heflin was a swing voter on the Judiciary Committee, often siding with Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and other conservative Republicans.
        But in 1986, Mr. Heflin voted against a lawyer from his home state who had been nominated by President Ronald Reagan to be a federal district judge. Several civil rights groups opposed the lawyer, Jeff Sessions, on the ground that he had shown insensitivity to blacks while serving as the United States attorney in Mobile, Ala.
        The Judiciary Committee blocked the nomination. Mr. Heflin said he did not know whether Mr. Sessions would be ''a fair and impartial judge.'' But the tables eventually turned. In 1996, Mr. Sessions, a Republican, won the Senate seat being vacated by Mr. Heflin, and he now serves on the Judiciary Committee.
        As a member of the Agriculture Committee, Mr. Heflin was a strong supporter of federal subsidies for cotton, peanuts and other crops grown in the South. He frequently voted against President Bill Clinton, a fellow Southern Democrat, on issues including trade, family and medical leave, and gay men and lesbians in the military.
        Mr. Heflin is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Ann; their son, H. Thomas Jr., known as Tom; and two grandchildren.
      