
        Richard Townsend Davies, who served as ambassador to Poland in the waning years of the Cold War, died on Wednesday in Washington after a brief illness, his family said. He was 84 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        As the American envoy in Warsaw from 1973 to 1978, Mr. Davies established regular contacts with Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Kracow. Thanks to his reports, Cardinal Wojtyla, an important Polish opposition figure, was no longer an unknown entity in Washington when he became Pope John Paul II in 1978.
        Ambassador Davies also helped prepare the visits of Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter to Poland, and trade with the United States grew during his tenure.
        After he retired from government service in 1980, Mr. Davies served as chairman of the Solidarity Endowment, an American group supporting the Polish workers' movement. From 1990 to 1998, he was active in Partners for Democratic Change, an international organization founded to foster civil societies and institutions in Central and Eastern Europe.
        Mr. Davies was born in Brooklyn. He earned a degree in international relations from Columbia College in 1942 and joined the Army infantry. He received advanced training in German to serve in a unit of the military government and was assigned to the forces advancing into Germany.
        His first diplomatic assignment was in Warsaw as a vice consul in 1947, followed by assignments to Paris and Moscow, among other places. He rose through the ranks in Washington and was consul general in Calcutta. In 1970, he was promoted to deputy assistant secretary of state for European affairs, the post he held when President Richard M. Nixon sent him back to Warsaw as ambassador.
        Mr. Davies is survived by his wife of 55 years, Jean Stevens Davies; sons, Stephen, of Takoma Park, Md., John S., of Carrollton, Tex.; Michael H., of Middletown, Calif., and Glyn T. of Washington; two sisters, Jean Lesser of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and Ruth Schleicher of Woods Hole, Mass.; and six grandchildren.
      