
        Rodney Belknap Wagner, a retired international banker at what is now J.P. Morgan Chase & Company who handled major debt issues for Saudi Arabia and Mexico and had a second career in philanthropy, died on March 24 in Sarasota, where he had a winter residence. He was 74 and lived in Colebrook, Conn.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage, his family said.
        On two occasions in the 1980's and 1990's, Mr. Wagner played an essential role in efforts to see the Mexican economy through some rough patches. He also brokered a loan package for Saudi Arabia, an unaccustomed borrower, that preserved its liquidity after the first Gulf War with Iraq.
        Mr. Wagner retired in 1996 as a director, vice chairman and member of the policy-setting corporate office of the bank. Since the 1980's, he had been the executive primarily responsible for its dealings with developing countries and debt restructuring.
        At his death he was a director for the Saudi Arabian Oil Company, Saudi Aramco.
        Mr. Wagner's philanthropic activities included trusteeships for the Sesame Workshop, which fosters children's television overseas; the World Wildlife Fund; the international Population Council, of which he was trustee and later chairman; the American University of Beirut; Robert College of Istanbul, of which he was the longtime chairman; Koç University in Istanbul; and Friends of the Nelson Mandela Children's Funds.
        Born in Shreveport, La., on May 25, 1931, Rodney Wagner joined what was then J.P. Morgan & Company upon his graduation from Yale in 1954. He then spent 16 months in Korea as an artillery lieutenant in the Army. He left J.P. Morgan in 1962 to work for AID, the government's Agency for International Development. Among his postings was Ankara, where he developed a lasting personal interest.
        He rejoined Morgan and was sent to Beirut in 1973. In 1984, he became vice chairman of Morgan's Credit Policy Committee in New York.
        Four years later, Mr. Wagner helped Mexico issue $2.6 billion in bonds, called Aztec Bonds, to repay a defaulted debt. Aztec Bonds, also known as Morgan Bonds, became a model for the Brady Bond program, named after the former Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, that helped Mexico and some 30 other debt-ridden countries in the early 1990's.
        Mr. Wagner also helped negotiate a $20 billion United States loan guarantee package that kept Mexico from a technical state of bankruptcy.
        Mr. Wagner is survived by his wife of 46 years, Sukey Nichols Wagner; a son, Benjamin B. of Sacramento, Calif.; a daughter, Quinn McClean of Washington; and six grandchildren.
        With the Gulf War at an end in 1991, the Saudi finance minister asked him to help with a large loan to pay its agreed share of war costs without cashing in some of its huge investments at a big loss.
        According to James Fuschetti, a longtime associate, Mr. Wagner got the minister to agree to use a syndicate of big banks, not just Morgan, helped negotiate the terms and even rode out into the desert to explain to the king why the syndicate required his personal signature.
      