
        Marius Russo, a leading Yankees pitcher of the early 1940's who is best remembered for a bizarre and game-turning at-bat in the World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers, died March 26 in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90.
        His death was announced by his wife, Stasia.
        Russo, a native of Brooklyn signed by the Yankees out of Long Island University, appeared with four of the Yankees' pennant-winning teams. A left-hander, he pitched for the Yankees from 1939 to 1943 and in 1946, when he returned from military service.
        His best seasons were 1940, when he had a record of 14-8, and 1941, when he was 14-10 and an All-Star.
        In Game 3 of the 1941 World Series, Russo and the Dodgers right-hander Freddie Fitzsimmons were in a scoreless duel through six innings at Ebbets Field. With two outs in the seventh and Joe Gordon on second, Russo, who batted .231 that season, smashed a liner that caromed high off Fitzsimmons's left knee. The ball was caught by shortstop Pee Wee Reese, retiring Russo, but Fitzsimmons incurred a broken knee.
        Hugh Casey, replacing Fitzsimmons, gave up four straight singles in the eighth as the Yankees scored twice and went on to a 2-1 victory behind Russo's four-hit complete game. The next day, catcher Mickey Owen's memorable passed ball on a pitch from Casey led to another Yankees victory, and the Yanks won the World Series in five games.
        ''One of the hardest balls I ever hit,'' Russo recalled in ''Pride of October,'' by Bill Madden. ''It would have scored a run if Fitzsimmons hadn't got in the way.''
        Russo pitched a seven-hitter in the Yankees' 2-1 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 4 of the 1943 World Series, and he doubled and scored the winning run in the eighth.
        He had a career record of 45-34 with an earned run average of 3.13.
        Russo was later an executive with Grumman Aircraft on Long Island.
        In addition to his wife, Russo is survived by his daughters, Carole Sassatelli, of Phoenix, and Marian Markovich, of Fort Myers.
      