
        Wai-kam Ho, an art historian and curator considered one of the world's leading authorities on Chinese art, died on Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 80 and lived in Pittsburgh.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr. Ho was a guest curator at the Shanghai Museum.
        Trained in history and literature in China and in art at Harvard, Mr. Ho was one of the first to apply the tools of traditional Chinese scholarship to the Western study of Chinese painting. He was an expert on Chinese painting as well as on Chinese Buddhist art, which includes painting and sculpture.
        In a telephone interview on Thursday, Maxwell K. Hearn, curator of the department of Asian art at the Metropolitan Museum, discussed Mr. Ho's influence.
        ''Professor Wai-kam Ho was one of the great scholars of the field in the depth of his investigations, his command of the literature -- the vast literature of not only Chinese art history, but also historical texts, regional gazetteers, collections of poetry, random jottings,'' he said. ''He was famous for his ability to delve both deeply and broadly to tease out information from these historical sources, which weren't always an obvious place to look for information.''
        Wai-kam Ho was born on March 26, 1924, in the Guangdong Province of China. He received an undergraduate degree from Lingnan University in 1947 and did graduate work with Chen Yinke, considered the pre-eminent historian of modern China.
        In 1950 Professor Chen secretly arranged to send Mr. Ho to the United States to study art history; Mr. Ho received a joint master's degree in Chinese history and Asian art from Harvard in 1953. From 1959 to 1983, he was curator of Oriental and Chinese art at the Cleveland Museum; from 1984 to 1994 he was Laurence Sickman Curator of Chinese Art at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo.
        As late as 1950, there was little serious scholarship of Chinese painting in the West. Chinese painting, which focused on landscapes, looked to Western eyes austere, forbidding and not representational enough. Weaned on portraiture, Western art historians found the landscapes almost impossible to interpret.
        They were also difficult to date.
        ''When Wai-kam came to this country, the survival of actual examples of landscape paintings from the 10th and 11th centuries was widely questioned,'' Mr. Hearn explained. ''Many people thought that everything that had survived were actually later copies that dated from the 15th and 16th centuries. There were all these paintings, but there was no way to prove that they were of an early date, so the whole field was in a terrible morass. It was through the work of scholars such as Ho that these paintings became anchored in time.''
        Mr. Ho was an art historical detective. He once traced a painting in the Cleveland Museum's collection to the 10th-century master Juran by examining an obscure inventory seal in one corner. Mining the historical record, he discovered that the seal was used only from 1083 to 1126 to mark artwork acquired for the Song government's imperial collection.
        Mr. Ho's books include ''Chinese Art Under the Mongols: The Yuan Dynasty, 1279-1368,'' with Sherman E. Lee (Cleveland Museum, 1968); and ''The Century of Tung Chi-chang, 1555-1636,'' with Judith G. Smith, (Nelson-Atkins Museum, 1992). Reviewing the 1992 work, The Los Angeles Times called its two volumes ''the year's most impressive paperback art books.''
        Mr. Ho is survived his wife, Wai-Ching; a son, Kevin, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Dawn Ho Delbanco, an art historian at Columbia University who specializes in Chinese painting; a brother and a sister, both of Hong Kong; and three grandchildren.
      