
        Edward Maurice Bronfman, the elder of the two brothers known as the Toronto Bronfmans, who created their own corporate realm after being denied a place in their better-known cousins' Seagram liquor kingdom, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said Dayle Rakowsky, executive director of the Edward Bronfman Family Foundation.
        Keeping a low profile, Edward and Peter F. Bronfman built one of North America's most powerful and secretive financial conglomerates, branching into merchant banking, real estate, brewing, insurance and professional hockey. In their heyday in the early 1990's, these hundreds of diverse and intricately interlocked holdings were estimated to be worth some $80 billion.
        Nonetheless, Edward and Peter, who died in 1996, were known as the ''other'' -- even ''lesser'' -- Bronfmans, as distinct from the Montreal brothers Edgar and Charles, the sons of Samuel Bronfman, who founded the Seagram distilling empire. When Samuel willed the empire to his sons, Edward and Peter were shut out as the ''poor cousins,'' a status they soon overcame.
        Forced in 1959 to sell their stake in Seagram, they used the proceeds of about $15 million to set up Edper Investments Ltd., now known as the Brascan Corporation. The original name was a contraction of their first names and was taken from a trust fund set up by their father, Allen, Samuel's brother.
        That original capital grew over the next 30 years. By the late 1980's, Edward, a 1950 business graduate of Babson College, and Peter Bronfman, younger by two years, controlled the largest financial operation in Canada through complex holding companies that helped them keep out of the public eye.
        Besides Edper, another cornerstone in their business operations was Brascan Ltd., a Toronto asset management company in which Edward Bronfman was a principal and deputy chairman until 1989. The roster of their most prominent interests over the years included John Labatt Ltd., the brewer; Noranda Inc., Canada's largest natural resources company; the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League; London Life Insurance; the real estate brokerage firm Royal LePage; the developer Bramalea; MacMillan Bloedel, a forestry company; and American oil properties and real estate.
        The statistical agency of the Canadian government found in 1990 that the 360 companies under the control of the two Bronfmans was twice the number of companies owned by the government itself.
        The accumulated tangle of corporate holdings unraveled somewhat in the 1990's when financial difficulties forced the Toronto Bronfmans to sell off companies bit by bit. After leaving Brascan in 1989, Edward Bronfman remained personally active in a few corporations like Astral Media Inc. of Montreal.
        But he came to devote more time to his charitable interests through his foundation. His principal beneficiaries included the Canadian Psychiatric Research Foundation; United Jewish Appeal; United Way of Greater Toronto; the Canadian Jewish Congress; the Canadian Council of Christians and Jews, of which he was a co-chairman; Canadian Friends of the Hebrew University; and various hospitals in the Toronto and Montreal areas. In recognition of that work, he was awarded the Order of Canada, the nation's highest civilian honor.
        Mr. Bronfman is survived by his wife of 14 years, Marsha Noik Bronfman; three sons, Paul A. and David E., of Toronto, and Brian A., of Montreal; a stepdaughter, Lisa Noik Genser, of Washington; and seven grandchildren.
      