
        Dr. Stanley J. Korsmeyer, a cancer researcher at Harvard who helped discover and investigate a gene that interferes with the natural regeneration of body tissue and creates conditions that often lead to cancer, died on March 31 in Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 54.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Korsmeyer, who taught at Harvard and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, was a lifelong nonsmoker.
        In pathbreaking research that began at Washington University in the 1980's, Dr. Korsmeyer was one of several scientists to discover the bcl-2 gene later found to block the body's natural process for destroying old or unnecessary cells. That process is called programmed cell death, or apoptosis, and is critical for maintaining healthy tissue.
        Dr. Korsmeyer, a molecular oncologist, studied patients with follicular B cell lymphoma, a common cancer of the immune system. He concluded that the gene interrupted cell death and enabled the lymphoma's cells to survive. In a paper published in 1989 in the journal Cell, he reinforced his conclusion by introducing the bcl-2 gene in laboratory mice, proving that the gene also prevented apoptosis in animals and created conditions favorable for cancer.
        Dr. Korsmeyer's research allowed a new picture of cancer to emerge, said Dr. H. Robert Horvitz, a professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who shared the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his studies of apoptosis in roundworms.
        ''Stanley carried the results further, to discover other genes and proteins that act as regulators of cell death and figured out how they all interact,'' Dr. Horvitz said.
        Dr. Craig B. Thompson, chairman of the cancer biology department at the University of Pennsylvania, said Dr. Korsmeyer's research had helped spur a revolution in cancer treatments, ''targeted at turning on programmed cell death, a new frontier of development and a whole new class of therapeutics.''
        Some related drugs are being tested in clinical trials, Dr. Thompson added.
        Stanley Joel Korsmeyer was born in Beardstown, Ill., where he grew up on his family's farm. He received his bachelor's and medical degrees from the University of Illinois.
        After working as a senior investigator at the National Cancer Institute, he joined Washington University in 1986, where he became chief of the division of molecular oncology.
        In 1998, he moved to Dana-Farber, which is affiliated with Harvard, and held professorships in pathology and medicine there. At Washington University and Dana-Farber, he was also affiliated with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, a supporter of biomedical research in universities and other institutions.
        Dr. Korsmeyer was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2000 and to the American Philosophical Society in 2002. Last year, the American Society of Hematology awarded him its Stratton Medal.
        Surviving is his wife of 26 years, the former Susan Reynard. The couple lived in Weston, Mass.
        Also surviving are two sons, Evan and Jason of Weston; his parents, Willard and Carnell Korsmeyer of Beardstown; three sisters, Lynn Hollahan of Pittsfield, Ill.; Janet Korsmeyer of Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Karen Randolla of Ossining, N.Y.; and his grandfather, Carl Jolly of Beardstown.
      