
        Michael Roberts, a restaurateur and chef whose playful and astonishingly successful marriages of preposterous ingredients helped forge the California culinary revolution of the 1980's, died on March 30 at his home in South Philadelphia, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 55.
        The cause was complications of Kugelberg-Welander syndrome, a degenerative neuromuscular disorder, his brother, Clifford, said.
        A former owner and executive chef of Trumps, a stylish West Hollywood restaurant favored by serious celebrities and even more serious foodies, Mr. Roberts was known for his gleefully blasphemous approach to cuisine, including lobster in vanilla sauce, fried plantains with caviar, and duck with black beans and pumpkin chutney.
        After Trumps closed in 1992, Mr. Roberts, with the actor Kevin Costner, opened the restaurant Twin Palms in Pasadena, Calif.
        ''He was in a small class of people who would break the rules,'' Corby Kummer, a food critic and a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. ''It was a time of a lot of outré imagination and experiments that went nowhere. It was a time when everybody was breaking free of their bonds and trying wild and crazy things. But he knew what actually worked.''
        If some of Mr. Roberts's dishes sound only mildly subversive today, it is an indication of the indelible mark that he and other Los Angeles chefs who emerged then, among them Wolfgang Puck, have left on American cuisine. Trained as a musician (he played the piano and double bass) Mr. Roberts was particularly attuned to the layered, contrapuntal possibilities of seemingly incompatible ingredients like catfish and grapefruit or potato pancakes, shrimp and tequila.
        When Trumps opened in 1980, most of Southern California was still mired in duck à l'orange. Mr. Roberts broke with gastronomic orthodoxy by taking simple food refreshingly upmarket, as in his much-praised quesadilla with brie and grapes.
        But he also slyly skewered the United States' emerging culinary pretensions, offering his well-heeled diners French toast and a memorable guacamole made from frozen peas.
        Though these culinary marriages occasionally failed (''There should be no place for lobster salad with watermelon pickle on the menu at Trumps,'' Marian Burros wrote in The New York Times in 1984), they far more often succeeded. An alchemist of ingredients, Mr. Roberts knew that a small amount of something like vanilla could taste shockingly good with a large amount of something like lobster.
        ''It heightens and sweetens the lobster without overwhelming it,'' Mr. Kummer said. ''It makes it taste more lobstery.''
        Michael Stuart Roberts was born in Utica, N.Y., on June 22, 1949, and raised on Long Island. He earned a bachelor's degree in musicology and composition from New York University in 1972 and a certificate from l'École Jean-Ferrandi, the Paris cooking school, in 1975. After working in France, Mr. Roberts cooked at One Fifth Avenue in New York before moving to Los Angeles.
        Mr. Roberts's marriage to Felicity Faulkner ended in divorce. Besides his brother, of Philadelphia, he is survived by his mother, Lucille, of Monroe Township, N.J.; and a sister, Diane Wahby, of Fanwood, N.J.
        A frequent contributor to Bon Appétit, Gourmet and Food and Wine magazines, Mr. Roberts wrote several cookbooks, including ''Parisian Home Cooking'' (Morrow, 1999) and ''Secret Ingredients'' (Bantam, 1988). One of his recipes, from early in his tenure at Trumps, can be summarized thus:
        Take a chicken. Stuff a great deal of foie gras under the skin. Batter and fry it.
        ''It was probably a dish that shortened your life every time you tasted it,'' Ruth Reichl wrote in The Los Angeles Times in 1989. ''Which may be why the fried chicken that is now on Trumps' menu is sans foie gras.''
      