
        Rainier III of Monaco, the prince whose storybook romance and marriage to the actress Grace Kelly helped promote the transformation of his tiny fief from a pastel postage-stamp fantasy on the Mediterranean into a steel-and-glass tax haven, died yesterday at a hospital in Monaco. He was 81.
        He had been suffering from heart, kidney and breathing problems.
        Crown Prince Albert, Rainier's son and heir, was at his side when he died at 6:35 a.m., according to a statement issued by the palace. Albert took over as regent when his father became incapacitated last month.
        Albert is unmarried and has no children. But Monaco changed its succession law in 2002 to allow power to pass from a reigning prince who has no descendants to his siblings. Albert has two sisters, Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie, both of whom have children.
        Rainier ran his country with an iron hand and police surveillance. There was virtually no crime and no unemployment. The Monaco that Somerset Maugham described as ''a sunny place for shady people'' became a place where suspicious-looking characters were not welcome.
        On royal occasions even the news media, which had so popularized Monaco at the time of the royal wedding, were sometimes unwelcome. This became an increasing problem, as Rainier's children -- and their romantic entanglements -- became frequent fodder for gossip columns and photo spreads.
        Monaco, which encompasses less than one square mile and could thus be tucked easily into Central Park, was picturesque but near bankruptcy when Rainier, who had not yet turned 26, succeeded his grandfather, Louis II, in 1949.
        Within a decade, however, Rainier formed two fortunate alliances, one personal and one professional. He married Ms. Kelly, a reigning member of Hollywood royalty, in a whirlwind romance that put his principality on the map. And he acquired the much-needed financial support of one of the world's richest men, the Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis. His investment ultimately helped renew what passed in Monaco for its only natural resource: the fabled gambling casino at Monte Carlo.
        Monaco's venerable Société des Bains de Mer (variously translated as Society of Sea Bathing and Society of Sea Baths), which owned and operated the casino, was moribund. It was the victim of a Europe filled with frayed aristocrats who, in the years immediately after World War II, lacked sufficient money to gamble in the grand manner or, for that matter, any manner at all.
        The Monaco Banking and Precious Metals Society, Monaco's principal bank at the time, was also on the brink of bankruptcy when the prince came to power and finally went over the edge in 1955, the victim of risky investments. This society, like the Society of Sea Baths, was not really a society at all, but an investment engine. The engine was sputtering.
        Rainier seemed an unlikely agent of deliverance. He had spent much of his youth demonstrating his preference for fast cars and beautiful women, and he seemed more keen on cowboy movies and in the pop-music possibilities of trumpet and guitar than he did on business. His subjects referred to him fondly as Le Prince Sportif. But his playboy image was inapt, according to Steven Englund, author of the biography ''Grace of Monaco.'' Mr. Englund said that the prince was ''the opposite of fancy-free in character'' and that he was ''striving to fill his life'' with something of value.
        Finding New Fortune
        Rainier felt strongly that Monaco had a dismal future if it catered only to the super-rich and depended mostly on gambling to sustain itself, as it had since the 19th century, when Charles III, his great-grandfather, decided the principality would profit if it made itself attractive to some of the wealthiest people around.
        In good times, such people could denude family fortunes at the tables, much to the delight of the Society of Sea Baths. Charles III saw the positive side of such decadence and thought he could outdo the resorts of Nice and Cannes. By 1880, there was so much gambling money flowing into Monaco that the Monagasques were not expected to pay income taxes. That made the place understandably popular with the French, German and Italian idle rich, some of whom soon concluded that if they could finagle citizenship in Monaco for themselves, they, too, could live without taxes on income, inheritance or capital gains.
        But Rainier knew that things had changed. The 19th century's old-money rich had been replaced by the 20th century's new-money captains of industry, and he thought the country's future lay with them and with the vast middle class of America and Europe.
        Prince Rainier Louis Henri Maxence Bertrand was born on May 31, 1923, in Monaco. His father was Prince Pierre, Comte de Polignac. His mother was Louise-Juliette, the daughter of Prince Louis Grimaldi, who had fathered her in a liaison with his laundress while stationed with the French Army in Algeria. Louise-Juliette became known as Princess Charlotte.
        The fairyland he was groomed to take over had been in the Grimaldi family since 1297.
        Rainier's ancestors waged war and expanded the original site of Monaco, which is near the French-Italian border. The place was considerably larger than it is now. It was so large that at one point they charged a toll to anyone who wanted to pass through their lands. No Grimaldi ever called himself a king but did expect to be addressed as ''serene highness.''
        Rainier was schooled in Britain and Switzerland and finally at the University of Montpellier in France, where he earned a bachelor of arts degree. He served in the Free French Army as an intelligence officer during World War II. He rose to the rank of colonel, received the Croix de Guerre and was made a chevalier in the Legion of Honor. Immediately after the war, he remained in Berlin in the economic section of the French Military Mission.
        Dreams and Reality
        Before his marriage, Rainier had lived with Gisèle Pascal, the French actress, and from all reports loved her deeply. But he left her after medical tests determined that she could not have children. He needed an heir. Without one, Monaco would become a nonsovereign part of France.
        The prince first met Ms. Kelly in Cannes in 1955; they were immediately smitten with each other. Ms. Kelly had only recently completed playing a princess in the film version of Ferenc Molnar's play ''The Swan.'' Her friends suspected -- accurately, as it turned out -- that she might be daydreaming about becoming a real princess. Rainier, whom she found dashing, bright and romantic, made her dreams a reality.
        They married on April 19, 1956, and until her death in an auto crash in September 1982, she imparted to Monaco not only her own extraordinary glamour but also that of her friends from Hollywood. She made Monaco the in-place to be and the tourists began to flock there, even tourists who cared little for gaming.
        In the 1950's, Rainier became aware that an obliging Aristotle Onassis wanted to lavish huge sums of investment money on the impoverished Society of Sea Baths. The prince welcomed Mr. Onassis's money.
        By investing more than $1 million or so, Mr. Onassis became the owner of 52 percent of the Society of Sea Baths' stock, compared with the prince's 2 percent. In exchange, Mr. Onassis wanted some influence in how Monaco was run. This was not to be.
        He enjoyed the company of rich people and thought Monaco should forever remain an enclave of them. He said, ''Monaco will always be prosperous so long as there are 3,000 rich men in the world.''
        But Rainier was determined to make Monaco accessible to the middle class, as well as to businessmen who dreamed of finding a tax haven for themselves and their companies. The prince therefore sought the construction of less expensive hotels, even as Mr. Onassis asserted that what the place needed was more exclusive resorts. Tension grew between them, especially after Rainier persuaded his National Council to create some 600,000 new shares in the Society of Sea Baths, to be bought and held by the government. This maneuver caused Mr. Onassis's Sea Bath holdings to plummet from 52 percent to less than 33 percent.
        Making matters worse from the Onassis position was Rainier's decision to outlaw pigeon shooting in Monaco, a sport the rich often wagered on. The prince is said to have loved animals but really made the decision for Princess Grace, who was said to find it ghastly.
        Mr. Onassis sailed away on his yacht, Cristina, one day in 1965. Nevertheless, he received $10 million from the Treasury of Monaco for his Sea Baths shares, whose value had by then increased tenfold under Rainier's resourceful management.
        Tension Between Neighbors
        New problems arose, most pointedly with the dissatisfaction of the French president Charles de Gaulle over Monaco's tax-free status. A number of well-to-do French citizens and businesses had been changing their home addresses to Rainier's domain, to avoid French taxes. Monaco had been a French protectorate since 1861 and the arrangement was that France would assure continued Monagasque sovereignty, provided the economic fortunes of France were not compromised in the process.
        Negotiations proved unavailing, de Gaulle lost his patience, and eventually Rainier capitulated. French residents living in Monaco were thereafter forced to pay taxes to Paris, although just about everyone else remained exempt.
        Monaco enjoyed great prosperity during the reign of Rainier and Princess Grace.
        But with her death, Monaco began to lose its luminosity once again. And there were questions about the succession. Rainier did not abdicate in favor of any of his children, and he was reportedly concerned about their well-publicized escapades. Princess Caroline married her first husband, Philippe Junot, in civil and religious ceremonies in 1978. The marriage was eventually annulled. In January 1999, Caroline married Prince Ernst August of Hanover. Six months later, in Austria, she gave birth to a daughter, Alexandra. She already had two sons and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stefano Casiraghi, an Italian who died in a powerboat accident in 1990.
        In 1996, Princess Stephanie, then 32, quickly divorced her husband and former bodyguard, Daniel Ducruet, after celebrity-hunting Italian photographers spotted him hugging a former Miss Bare Breasts of Belgium in a rented villa on the French Riviera. Stephanie had married him in 1995 after they had had two children. She later had a third child, whose father's identity has not been made public.
        Although as Rainier aged there was increasing talk of his stepping down in favor of Prince Albert, he said in an interview with The New York Times in March 1997, ''He has to pick a wife and settle down and establish a family.'' Seemingly unfazed by the dynastic ups and downs, Prince Rainier said in the interview, ''The miracle that after 700 years the family is still there shows that there's been unity between my family and the population.''
      