
        Richard W. Reuter, who helped shape the country's foreign relief efforts as an executive at CARE USA and then at the Food for Peace program, died last Friday in Lake Bluff, Ill. He was 86.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Reuter (pronounced rooter) gained experience with the American Friends Service Committee during World War II. He joined CARE, an international voluntary aid agency, in 1946, less than a year after it was founded. He was its executive director from 1955 to 1962, when President John F. Kennedy named him a special assistant and director of Food for Peace.
        He remained in that job under President Lyndon B. Johnson until 1965, when the program came under the aegis of Secretary of State Dean Rusk. Mr. Reuter returned to the private sector in 1966 as director of area development in the international division of Kraft Foods. Reports at the time said he had resigned from public service ''in dismay'' over the way the food program had been wrenched from its original mission.
        In 1955, when Mr. Reuter took the helm at CARE, the organization was at a crossroads. Many of its overseas offices were closing. It had played a crucial role in healing the ravages of war in Europe and was looking for ways to redirect its volunteer spirit where it was needed in the rest of the world.
        Mr. Reuter guided the progression from the legendary millions of CARE packages toward hands-on assistance geared to help the neediest of other continents lift themselves from poverty. Fred Devine, who was deputy director of CARE under Mr. Reuter, said Mr. Reuter was instrumental in establishing CARE's worldwide self-help and development programs. He said Mr. Reuter ''brought a business ethic to CARE at a time when many people thought it would only be a temporary organization after the war.''
        President Kennedy also sought Mr. Reuter's advice when building the Peace Corps; CARE helped train its first volunteers.
        Peter Bell, the president and chief operating officer of CARE, said: ''Without the practices Mr. Reuter put in place during the early days of CARE, we would not have become the charity of choice for hundreds of thousands of Americans.''
        Richard Ward Reuter was born in Brooklyn and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in economics from Amherst College in 1938. He took graduate courses in business administration at Columbia University and worked in management positions at Abraham & Straus, the department store, before he joined the American Friends in 1941 as a conscientious objector.
        After he joined Kraft Foods in Chicago, Mr. Reuter became a vice president and director for purchasing in 1970. He retired in 1984 but continued to work as a consultant on international economic development projects.
        Over the years, he was also president of the New York State Citizens Council and vice president of the American Freedom From Hunger Foundation, among other institutions.
        Mr. Reuter is survived by his wife of 60 years, Margaret Steinorth Reuter; two daughters, Wendy Osborn of Glendale, Calif., and Judith W. Reuter of Mundelein, Ill.; two sons, Robert E., of East Setauket, N.Y., and R. Douglas, of Setauket; and five grandchildren.
      