
        Al Wasserman, a filmmaker who made movie and television documentaries that won many major awards, died at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan on March 31. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Provincetown, Mass.
        The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Barbara, said.
        Mr. Wasserman, who was a pioneer in his field, created programs that ranged from news documentaries to dramatic re-enactments. An early movie documentary he wrote, ''First Steps,'' about physical therapy for disabled children, won an Academy Award in 1947 for the United Nations Division of Films and Visual Education.
        As a staff writer, director and producer at CBS-TV from 1955 to 1960, Mr. Wasserman made several films for ''The Search,'' an early television documentary series about research done in universities. It won a Sylvania Award for network public service.
        After moving to NBC in 1960, Mr. Wasserman became the founding producer of NBC's ''White Paper'' series, for which he did reports on everything from civil rights events to railroad travel to two hourlong films called ''The Age of Kennedy.'' He also produced specials for the ''DuPont Show of the Week.''
        From 1976 to 1986, he was a producer of the CBS series ''60 Minutes.''
        Albert Wasserman was born in the Bronx on Feb. 9, 1921, the only child of Martin S. Wasserman, a pharmacist, and Beatrice Schaffer Wasserman. He attended the City College of New York, where he earned a bachelor of science degree in 1941.
        In 1943, he married Della Newmark. They had two children, Paul Wasserman of Brooklyn and Vicki Lane of Glen Cove on Long Island. The marriage ended in divorce. In 1968, he married Barbara Mailer Alson. Both of his children survive him, along with a stepchild, Peter Alson of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
        In World War II, he served in the United States Navy.
        After the war, he worked as a freelance film writer and made several films, among them a pilot for the NBC News series ''Wide, Wide World,'' of which he was the co-author.
        After leaving NBC in 1967, he became president of Wasserman Productions, an independent filmmaking company. In 1973, he directed ''The Making of the President 1972,'' an hour-and-a-half film based on Theodore H. White's book of the same name, which was not shown until 1975 because of the unfolding Watergate scandal.
        After he left ''60 Minutes'' in 1986, he took up still photography and had exhibitions of his work in New York and Provincetown.
      