
        Dr. Maynard J. Ramsay, an entomologist noted for his efforts to track and eradicate exotic parasites carried in flowers, fruits and other cargoes arriving from overseas, died on March 20 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 90.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        During the 1940's, 50's and 60's, Dr. Ramsay lived on Staten Island while working in Manhattan for the Department of Agriculture.
        An expert investigator of a variety of insects, Dr. Ramsay was widely known for his research on a potato parasite -- the golden nematode, or eelworm. In the late 1940's, the worm was discovered on lily of the valley plants then being imported from Holland. Dr. Ramsay helped trace the worm to infested flower fields in Germany that had been converted for potato growing during World War II.
        Inspectors from the Department of Agriculture began testing cargoes of lilies in Hamburg, and initially slowed the golden nematode's crossing of the Atlantic. The worm was first reported in the 1930's in potato fields in New York, the only state where it has established a foothold.
        Dr. Ramsay also studied Dutch elm disease, termite infestations in Puerto Rico, and Mexican bean beetles in New York State, and he helped develop methods for estimating losses from the parasites. He later trained inspectors from Japan, El Salvador, Jordan and Indonesia in an effort to identify infested crops before they reached American shores. When those crops were found, agriculture officials usually ordered the cargoes to be dumped at sea and the ships to be fumigated.
        Raymond F. Bednar, a former director of the federal Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in New York, recalled that Dr. Ramsay ''always saw the new pest coming down the pike.''
        Maynard Jack Ramsay was born in Buffalo on Nov. 22, 1914. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Buffalo and a doctorate in entomology from Cornell in 1941.
        He joined the agriculture department in 1943 and served as a port entomologist in Manhattan from 1950 to 1956. After working as a training officer, he wasl appointed to the department's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in 1967. He retired in 1977.
        He was a former president of the Insecticide Society of Washington.
        Dr. Ramsay's wife, the former Alberta Wentworth, died in 2003. The couple had resided in Bowie, Md.
        He is survived by four sons, Bruce, of Takoma Park, Md.; Craig, of Murfreesboro, Tenn.; Leigh, of Poway, Calif.; and Paul, of Manassas, Va.; a daughter, Carolyn Sue Bly of Arkport, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      