
        S. Paul Ehrlich, an epidemiologist and public health officer who served as acting surgeon general during a long organizational reshuffling under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, died on Jan. 6 in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 72.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Ehrlich's public service began in 1959 at the National Heart Institute in Bethesda, Md., and took him to the upper echelons of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. An overhaul changing the department's structure, begun in 1968, even threatened to do away with the office of the surgeon general, which dated to the 1870's and was considered a primary advocate of public health in the country.
        A proposal to scrap the Public Health Service's Commissioned Corps would have gutted the position, which a report in 1971 called ''an organizational anomaly'' of no further use. The surgeon general at the time, Dr. Jesse L. Steinfeld, quit in 1973. Dr. Ehrlich, then director of the Office of International Health at H.E.W., was named acting surgeon general.
        He joined Dr. Steinfeld and others in the Public Health Service in defense of the corps and the surgeon general's office, and their strong support brought Congressional supporters to the rescue. Dr. Ehrlich kept the office alive until the arrival in 1977 of President Jimmy Carter's choice for surgeon general, Dr. Julius B. Richmond, who had organized Project Head Start in 1965.
        Saul Paul Ehrlich Jr. was born in Minneapolis and graduated in 1953 from the University of Minnesota, where he also earned his M.D. in 1957. He interned at the Public Health Service Hospital in Staten Island. His residency was in epidemiology at the University of California, where he received a master's degree in public health in 1961. He was board certified in preventive medicine.
        After the heart institute in Bethesda, Dr. Ehrlich worked on a national heart-disease control program in San Francisco and as its assistant and deputy chief in Arlington, Va. While at the headquarters of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, now the Department of Health and Human Services, he often represented the United States on the executive board of the World Health Organization.
        He was deputy director of the Pan American Health Organization, the W.H.O.'s regional office in Washington, from 1979 to 1983. He also contributed to professional journals and held teaching appointments at Georgetown University, the University of Texas and the University of California, Berkeley. He retired in 1984 after learning that he had multiple sclerosis.
        Dr. Ehrlich is survived by his wife of 45 years, Geraldine McKenna Ehrlich; three daughters, Dr. Susan P. Ehrlich of San Francisco, Dr. Paula Ehrlich of Hendricks, Pa., and Jill Ehrlich-Robinson of Ankara, Turkey; and one grandson.
      