
        Paul K. Perry, an architect of the Gallup Poll who pieced through the wreckage of pollsters' stunningly wrong predictions that President Harry S. Truman would be defeated in 1948 to improve forecasts for future elections, died on April 7 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 95.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, a son, Dr. Paul G. Perry, said.
        In the 1948 election, Gallup and other pollsters predicted that the Republican challenger, Thomas E. Dewey, would defeat Truman. But Truman surged to victory despite his secondary position in the last polls, resulting in the legendary photograph of a delighted president holding a copy of The Chicago Tribune bearing the banner headline that Dewey had triumphed.
        The immensely embarrassed polling industry, then in its infancy, huddled with academics and quickly came up with some reforms, most notably the need to conduct polls later in the election cycle. Another was to make the surveys more random.
        Mr. Perry, who was chief statistician and later president of the Gallup Organization, is credited with at least two innovations: devising a system to identify likely voters, and coming up with ways to allocate undecided voters to candidates.
        He evaluated the methods by scrutinizing results of the 1950 elections, in which he accurately predicted a Republican gain of 28 seats in the House, and wrote detailed articles in professional journals explaining his decisions. The efficacy of Mr. Perry's methods for predicting the choices of likely voters proved still effective in 1999 when the Pew Research Center for People and the Press tested them during the race for mayor of Philadelphia. The voting behavior of 73 percent of those surveyed was correctly forecast.
        ''At their core, the methods he came up with were disarmingly straightforward,'' Albert H. Cantril, an independent public opinion analyst in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message yesterday. ''Were he still active in the field, Paul would be bringing the same empirical rigor to current challenges, such as how to sample people who use only a cellphone.''
        Another example of Mr. Perry's ingenuity, Dr. Cantril said in an interview, was his polling of some people secretly and others openly during the 1964 election. He found that Barry M. Goldwater, a Republican who was considered the more controversial candidate, did better among the secret responders. In 1972, Democrat George S. McGovern, also considered controversial, also did better among those being polled privately.
        Mervin Field, the founder of the Field Poll in California, said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Perry was one of the first polling experts to emphasize making second calls to people who were not home for the first call, and later was a pioneer in developing techniques to survey voters as they left polling places.
        Working with George Gallup almost from the beginning of modern public opinion surveys in the 1930's, Mr. Perry played a critical role, Mr. Field said. ''You can't overstate the contribution Paul Perry made to Gallup's name and franchise,'' he said.
        Paul Keely Perry was born on Feb. 22, 1910, in Camden, N.J., and grew up in Philadelphia and in Rochester, N.Y. His father sold wholesale leather to shoe manufacturers.
        Mr. Perry, an economics major, graduated from Tufts University in 1933, but was unable to find a job in the Depression. A fraternity brother working for Dr. Gallup, who had only recently set up shop, invited him to come to Princeton to apply for a job. Mr. Perry lived in Princeton until his death.
        ''There were just a few of us, five or six, and we were hand-tabulating ballots, that was our principal task,'' Mr. Perry said in an interview with The Washington Post after Dr. Gallup died in 1984.
        Mr. Perry and others among Dr. Gallup's first hires honed their statistical knowledge in seminars they arranged with Princeton professors.
        Still, the newness of the field meant that Mr. Perry ''had to invent a few tools,'' said Herbert Abelson, who has worked in public opinion surveys at Princeton University and at a company he founded. Dr. Abelson said that Mr. Perry ''had a profound effect on the whole field.''
        His influence was magnified by Dr. Gallup's willingness to let him publish articles in journals like Public Opinion Quarterly, rather than keeping certain methods as proprietary secrets. Dr. Cantril suggested that this policy was also in part an effort to re-establish the credibility of polling after the 1948 debacle.
        Mr. Perry's wife of 53 years, the former Ruth Grandison, died in 1990. In addition to his son Paul, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by his daughters, Ruthmarie Thomas of West Windsor, N.J., and Alice Strong of Princeton; another son, Mark, of Charlottesville, Va.; seven grandchildren; and two stepgrandsons.
        Dr. Perry said his father never said how he voted in the presidential election of 1948.
      