
        Wilbur A. Levin, the Kings County clerk and a longtime civic and business leader in New York City, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Kate D. Levin said.
        Mr. Levin's official title was county clerk and clerk of the Supreme Court and commissioner of jurors, County of Kings. The post, to which Mr. Levin was named in 1989, was a lifetime appointment that made him an important figure to more than a million Brooklynites.
        ''If you live in Brooklyn,'' Mr. Levin told The Daily News in 1996, ''and are 18 or over, a citizen, a nonfelon, and either vote, pay taxes, collect unemployment, welfare, or have a driver's license, your name is going to pass through this office.''
        Mr. Levin was previously president, chief executive and chairman of the board of Independence Savings Bank and a former president of the Martin's department store chain, both based in Brooklyn.
        Wilbur Arthur Levin, almost always called Bill, was born in Brooklyn on Oct. 21, 1920, and raised in Brookline, Mass. He received a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1941 and served as a lieutenant in the Army. In 1945, he joined Martin's, which had been founded by his grandfather.
        As county clerk, Mr. Levin was routinely dazzled by the inventiveness of Brooklynites summoned for jury duty. There was the United Nations interpreter who said he knew no English, the Roman Catholic priest who brought a note from Cardinal John J. O'Connor and the limousine driver who said he was blind.
        Active in civic affairs, Mr. Levin served on many boards, including those of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center and Helen Keller Services for the Blind. He was a trustee and vice chairman of Brooklyn Law School and a director of the Prospect Park Alliance.
        Besides his daughter Kate, the New York City cultural affairs commissioner, Mr. Levin is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Schwalbe, the author, as Phyllis Lee Levin, of ''Edith and Woodrow: The Wilson White House'' (Scribner, 2001); a sister, Jeanne Brenner of Jamaica Plain, Mass.; a daughter, Emme Deland of Manhattan; two sons, John, of Brooklyn, and Peter, of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
      