
        Johnnie Johnson, the blues and early rock 'n' roll pianist who played on many of Chuck Berry's early hits and performed with Mr. Berry for more than 20 years, died yesterday at home in St. Louis, according to a statement from his publicist, Margo Lewis. He was 80, according to Ms. Lewis.
        It was his bouncing, insistent piano chords and glissandos that were the backdrop to the guitar riffs on many of the Chuck Berry hits of the 1950's and early 60's, including ''Maybellene,'' ''Brown-Eyed Handsome Man,'' ''Roll Over Beethoven,'' ''Almost Grown,'' and ''You Never Can Tell.'' Mr. Berry wrote ''Johnny B. Goode'' as a tribute to his pianist.
        In 2000 Mr. Johnson brought a lawsuit against Mr. Berry, seeking millions of dollars in royalties; he contended that he had been a co-author of many of the songs they recorded together that were credited solely to Mr. Berry. A federal judge dismissed the suit, ruling that too much time had passed since the songs were written.
        Mr. Johnson, a shy and agreeable man, was working as a bus driver for the aged in St. Louis before Taylor Hackford made his 1986 film ''Chuck Berry: Hail! Hail! Rock 'n' Roll.'' For the film, Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones helped reunite Mr. Johnson with his old boss for a concert; it was only then that the issue of Mr. Johnson's deep influence on Mr. Berry became widely considered. In the film, Mr. Richards suggested that Mr. Berry may have adapted Mr. Johnson's riffs for guitar.
        Mr. Richards would continue boosting Mr. Johnson's career, hiring Mr. Johnson to play on his own solo record ''Talk is Cheap'' (1988)
        Born in Fairmont, W.Va., Mr. Johnson was self-taught, interested early on in the boogie-woogie player Meade Lux Lewis and jazz pianist Earl Hines. After serving in the Marines, he moved to Chicago and then finally to St. Louis in 1952.
        According to Mr. Berry's autobiography, Mr. Johnson originally hired Mr. Berry as a fill-in member for his band, Sir John's Trio, at the Cosmopolitan Club in St. Louis, on Dec. 31, 1952, when the regular guitarist and singer could not make it. But soon Mr. Berry was independently hired as a leader by the club owner, and Mr. Berry hired Mr. Johnson as his pianist. ''When I mentioned this to Johnnie,'' Mr. Berry wrote, ''he said that it would be no problem at all and that he would be happy with me in charge because he didn't care for the business end, dealing with the local union dues and all.'' Not only that: Mr. Berry had a car, and Mr. Johnson didn't.
        On breaks from working with Mr. Berry, Mr. Johnson played occasionally with Albert King and Little Richard; he began to make his own records after only his rediscovery through Mr. Hackford's movie. He released ''Blue Hand Johnnie'' (1988), ''Johnnie B. Bad'' (1991), ''That'll Work'' (1993) and ''Johnnie Be Back'' (1995). He was the subject of a 1999 biography, ''Father of Rock & Roll: The Story of Johnnie 'B. Goode' Johnson,'' by Travis Fitzpatrick. In 2001 Mr. Johnson was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame by Mr. Richards. His last public performance, last February, was with Bo Diddley.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances, of St. Louis; 10 children; and many grandchildren.
      