
        Akira Yoshizawa, a master paper folder widely acclaimed as the father of modern origami, died on March 14, his 94th birthday, at a hospital near his home in Ogikubo, a suburb of Tokyo.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said June Sakamoto, a board member of Origami USA, based in New York.
        Internationally recognized since the 1950's, Mr. Yoshizawa was credited with elevating a children's pastime into a serious form of figurative art. He was known both for his innovative folding techniques and for devising a notation system that made origami instructions universally accessible. Usually inspired by the natural world, his work was praised for its simple, elegant lines and striking animacy. In his hands, flat sheets sprang to life as the birds of the air, the fish of the sea and the flora and fauna of the earth.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1958, Meyer Berger said, ''Folders the world over acknowledge Akira Yoshizawa, a gentle and rather impoverished but contented origami artist, as the greatest now living.''
        Mr. Yoshizawa's origami went far beyond the wobbly salt cellars made by generations of young people. He folded graceful peacocks with lush fanned tails. He folded lumbering gorillas with protruding jaws and sunken eyes. He folded huge flying dragons, and an elephant so small it could stand atop a thimble. His origami was not so much folded paper as sculptural art, usually made from a single sheet of paper, always without glue, scissors or extraneous embellishment.
        ''Instead of trying to be as lifelike as possible, he tried to make it as 'living' as possible,'' Ms. Sakamoto said. ''If he was going to make a rooster, you really felt it was crowing, but you didn't have to see every detail of the feathers.''
        Akira Yoshizawa was born on March 14, 1911, in Kaminokawa, in the Tochigi Prefecture. He moved to Tokyo as a teenager and went to work in a factory that made machine tools. Some years later, Mr. Yoshizawa, now a technical draftsman at the factory, was asked to teach geometry to the junior employees. Recalling the paper folding he had loved in childhood, he used it as a teaching aid.
        Mr. Yoshizawa left the factory in the mid-1930's to pursue his art. For more than two decades he lived in penury, earning money by selling preserved fish door to door. At the end of 1951, a Japanese magazine commissioned him to fold the 12 signs of the Japanese zodiac to illustrate its January 1952 issue. The work made Mr. Yoshizawa's reputation, leading to exhibitions in Japan and, in 1955, a show at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam.
        Before Mr. Yoshizawa, paper folding was generally dismissed as a children's pastime. Folded according to a rigid set of rules that had remained unchanged for generations, origami figures were usually flat and static. Mr. Yoshizawa, who was self-taught, broke with tradition. He pioneered a technique, known as wet folding, that allows dampened paper to be molded into sculptural forms, like the marvelously ugly crenellations of a gorilla's face.
        He also pioneered a system of origami notation that allows readers of any language to follow a set of printed instructions. Using dotted lines to indicate the folds and arrows to indicate the directions of the folds, the system is widely used today.
        Mr. Yoshizawa's work has been exhibited around the world, featured in shows at the Cooper Union in New York, the Louvre and elsewhere. In 1983, he was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun.
        Mr. Yoshizawa's first wife died before him. He is survived by his second wife, Kiyo.
        On occasion, Mr. Yoshizawa did strive for verisimilitude. In the early 1990's, he was commissioned to create elaborate origami landscapes, complete with mountains and rice paddies, for an exposition in Spain. He spent more than six weeks working out how to turn a piece of paper into an ear of rice.
        ''When I finally completed creating the ear of rice with origami, I compared it with a real ear of rice,'' he told The Daily Yomiuri in 1991. ''My work just looked like the real thing. I was so glad that I couldn't help crying.''
      