
        André François, the French cartoonist and illustrator whose biting satires of the human comedy influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from traditional realism, died on Monday at his home in Grisy-les-Plâtres, France. He was 89.
        The cause was heart and kidney failure, said a friend, the children's book illustrator Étienne Delessert.
        From the 1950's through the 80's, Mr. François's work appeared frequently in leading French satiric magazines and in popular American publications like The New Yorker, Holiday, Vogue and Sports Illustrated, as well as in children's and adult illustrated books and advertising posters.
        In the 50's and 60's romantic realism and literalism were the reigning conventions for illustration in the United States. But in Europe many illustrators had earlier embraced abstract and impressionist art. Mr. François's crude but sensual black-and-white brush drawings and starkly colored paintings, employing surreal and ironic juxtapositions, introduced serious whimsy to conservative commercial art. He also injected a comedic eroticism that broke various taboos.
        ''Along with Saul Steinberg, he was the shining light of world illustration in the 50's,'' said the designer and illustrator Milton Glaser. ''All of us beginning our practice at that time were deeply inspired by him.''
        Born André Farkas in 1915 in Timisoara, Romania, he studied in Budapest, Hungary. While there he became interested in mass-produced graphic art and was influenced by the leading French Art Deco poster artist of the day, A.M. Cassandre, whose work was ubiquitous. In 1934 he moved to Paris and was invited to study with Cassandre at the art school that Cassandre had just opened. In 1939 he became a French citizen and changed his name to François. The same year he married a young Englishwoman, Margaret Edmunds. They were married for 66 years. She survives him, along with a daughter, Catherine, and a son, Pierre, an architect, AND . AF's surviving sister
        Violette Marc of Norgent-sur-Marne, France.
        Mr. François thought of himself as a painter as much as an illustrator, but while in Paris he earned his reputation for humorous work. His drawings were quickly rendered in black-and-whites, but he also experimented with vibrant color and later became a devoted collagist, combining drawings with found objects like old clock faces. He was fascinated by vintage machinery. He regularly contributed to satirical magazines, including Punch in Britain and Le Rire in France.
        A Jewish, leftist artist, he hid from the Germans during World War II on a farm in Savoie and afterward moved to Grisy-les-Plâtres, a small village near Pontoise, because it was an inexpensive place to raise a family. From his studio there flowed hundreds of cartoons for the leftist newspapers Action and Les Lettres Françaises.
        Mr. François's first book, ''Double Bedside Book,'' was published in 1952. He later illustrated a book by the poet Jacques Prévert, and his children's book ''Crocodile Tears'' was published in 1956 and translated into 14 languages.
        He soon entered the advertising business with poster campaigns for Stemm Socks, Citro
        nautomobiles, Le Printemps department store, Pirelli, Shell and the French weeklies Le Nouvel Observateur and Telerama.
        He routinely employed visual puns that often meant transforming inanimate objects into human forms, and vice versa. In 1956 he designed sets for a Roland Petit Ballet, and both sets and costumes for Shakespeare's ''Merry Wives of Windsor'' at the Royal Shakespeare Theater in 1956.
        Walt Kelly, creator of the Pogo comic strip, wrote of Mr. François: ''He seems to capture an idea with a pounce. He throws it to the ground in a frenzy, hacking at it with quick strokes to delineate its likeness. He never waits to pretty it up, smoothing its fur or arranging its limbs with the decency due unto death. His ideas are never mummified in technique or stuffed, or tanned and stretched. They are not fossils of style.''
        After publication of his anthologies of cartoons, ''The Penguin André François,'' originally published in 1952 in England, and ''The Tattooed Sailor and Other Cartoons From France'' in 1953, his work became sought after by art directors in the United States. In 1958 ''The Half-Naked Knight,''published by Knopf, attracted a growing legion of artist acolytes with his ribald and slyly witty imagery. He was also commissioned to make visual essays for Holiday and Sports Illustrated and covers for The New Yorker.
        In 2002 a devastating fire in Mr. François's studio destroyed nearly all of his work. Despite failing health, his friends say, he was determined to leave more tangible examples of his legacy than those reproduced in books, and in his last years set about trying to produce a body of new work.
      