
        Philip Pavia, a sculptor who was a powerful force in the midcentury avant-garde art scene in New York, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he had two weeks ago, said his wife, Natalie Edgar, a painter.
        Mr. Pavia's work was sometimes abstract and sometimes figurative, with works ranging from boulder-size human heads to carefully stacked piles of roughly chiseled marble. One of his best-known pieces, ''The Ides of March,'' is a stark and enigmatic set of four large bronzes in craggy diamond shapes.
        While his style varied, Mr. Pavia remained staunchly committed to the idea of the avant-garde in American art. In the late 1940's he was a founding member of the Club, a loose association of artists, writers and other intellectuals in New York that included Willem de Kooning, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell and Leo Castelli. Mr. Pavia organized most of the Club's panel discussions during its early years, bringing in Hannah Arendt, Joseph Campbell and John Cage, among others, for informal but spirited debates.
        In the mid-50's he quit the Club when its numbers grew too large for him to know everybody's name, and founded a magazine, It Is, which was as intellectually pugnacious as the Club's meetings. He despised the dream-based art of Surrealism and other European schools, and after a flirtation with Zen rejected Eastern schools because ''they had nothing on Western philosophy,'' his wife said. Influenced by the writings of William James, he saw art as an inner reflection of the direct and tactile experience of life. Beginning in the late 50's, Mr. Pavia had regular solo and group shows around New York, at the Great Jones, Samuel Kootz and Martha Jackson galleries.
        His penchant for large-scale, totemic pieces led him to a number of public artworks. ''The Ides of March'' was at the porte-cochère entrance to the New York Hilton for 25 years beginning in 1963, and then moved 10 blocks down the Avenue of the Americas to the Hippodrome building, where it stood for another decade and a half. He also had large marble pieces at various times outside the Cloisters, the Guggenheim and the Cooper-Hewitt.
        Mr. Pavia remained productive well into his 90's. His most recent show, at the OK Harris gallery in SoHo, consisted of 12 ghostly terra-cotta heads. They represented the inside of the skull, he said, not the outside.
        The son of a stonecutter and born in Bridgeport, Conn., Mr. Pavia attended Yale but left to study at the Art Students League in New York, where he befriended another student, Jackson Pollock. In Paris he met Henry Miller, who instilled in him a reverence for pure avant-gardism. He moved back to New York in 1938.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include two sons, Luigi and Paul, all of New York.
        ''The Ides of March,'' one of Mr. Pavia's favorite pieces, was recently nearly lost to the scrap heap of history. While held in storage at the Hippodrome building in preparation for a permanent move to the museum and sculpture garden at Hofstra University, in Hempstead, N.Y., three of the four pieces disappeared about March 23. A scrap metal dealer in the Bronx, after reading a news report about the pieces, contacted the police, and the sculpture is now whole again.
        Correction:  April 16, 2005, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Philip Pavia, an avant-garde sculptor, used a misspelled given name in some copies for an artist with whom he was associated. The artist is Barnett Newman, not Barrett.
      