
        Achille Maramotti, a leading fashion entrepreneur in postwar Italy who founded the clothing giant Max Mara then extended his prodigious energies to banking and building a collection of contemporary art, died on Wednesday at his home in Albinea, Italy. He was 78.
        His death was confirmed by Giorgio Guidotti, a Max Mara spokesman in Italy. No cause was announced.
        All his career Mr. Maramotti exerted his influence from Reggio Emilia, a cathedral town in the Po Valley best known for its Parmesan. He started Max Mara in 1951 with a single coat and a suit. His aim was to provide well-made manufactured clothes at a time when many Italian women still went to dressmakers or, if they were affluent enough, Roman couturiers.
        His most farsighted idea was to create a brand that was not dependent on a designer personality but rather exemplified Italian craftsmanship, and to give it a name that could be pronounced in any language.
        While the heads of other Italian fashion houses tended to limit their interests to clothes or displays of wealth, Mr. Maramotti distinguished himself on three fronts. He was 25 when he bought his first bank shares, and at roughly the same age he acquired his first important work of contemporary art, by the Italian abstract expressionist Alberto Burri.
        At his death, he was deputy chairman of the bank Credito Emiliano, which the Maramotti family controls, and a director of two other banks, Unicredito Italiano and Mediobank.
        Some of the largest and most striking of his avant-garde canvases hang in the 13th-century castle where he lived with his wife, Ida. The collection has works by artists like Giorgio Morandi, Anselm Kiefer, Giorgio de Chirico, Alberto Savinio, Eric Fischl and Julian Schnabel.
        Mr. Maramotti never sought attention, though he was one of the world's wealthiest individuals, according to Forbes, which in 2004 estimated his personal worth at $2.1 billion. He was sociable, invariably chose the best restaurants and produced a Parmesan from his own herd of cows. But he did not flaunt his prestige.
        Franca Sozzani, the editor of Italian Vogue, recalled once seeing him in a white worker's apron in his factory; at other times he would be dining with the financial crowd in Milan.
        ''Even if you didn't see him around at the shows, he knew everything about fashion,'' Ms. Sozzani said. ''And he had an incredible sense about investing in fashion.''
        Achille Maramotti was born Jan. 7, 1927, in Reggio Emilia. He was 12 when his father, a professor of literature, died. Much of his initiative seemed to spring from the family's matriarchs. His mother, Giulia, operated a local tailoring and pattern-making school that encouraged financial independence among young women. His great-grandmother, Marina Rinaldi, ran a dress shop in the 1850's, and it was after her that he named one of the first fashion labels for full-figured women, in 1980.
        After studying in Rome, Mr. Maramotti received a law degree from Parma University. While working on behalf of a Swiss client that manufactured raincoats, he decided to go into the garment business for himself. According to the family, the name Max Mara was a blend of Maramotti and that of a local bon vivant called Count Max, who apparently drank away his fortune in bars across Europe but at least looked good while doing it.
        ''I think my father was into creating a fantasy name,'' his elder son, Luigi, said in an interview in 1998.
        From the outset, Mr. Maramotti was resourceful. To have his clothes seen by women, he persuaded local fabric shops to give him selling space and promote the new label in their windows. To give Max Mara's classic look a sense of chic, he hired designers like Karl Lagerfeld and Jean-Charles de Castelbajac to work for him anonymously.
        Although Max Mara was based on the ideal of real clothes, Mr. Maramotti used the world's top fashion photographers, including Sarah Moon and Richard Avedon, to give the company's advertisements a visionary look. Responding to the youthful demands of the 1960's, he added a younger-looking line under the Sportmax label. Today the company has more than 20 different labels, about 1,700 shops around the world and sales of $1 billion.
        Mr. Maramotti retired in 1989 from the fashion side of the family's businesses, but continued his activities in banking and in collecting.
        Besides his wife and his son Luigi, Mr. Maramotti is survived by a brother, Guilio; a son, Ignazio; a daughter, Maria Ludovica; and nine grandchildren, all living in Reggio Emilia.
      