
        José Melis, a classically trained pianist who helped pioneer a broadcasting genre as orchestra leader for the ''Tonight'' show with Jack Paar, died April 7 at Boswell Memorial Hospital in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85.
        The cause was a respiratory infection, said his son, Michael Melis, with whom Mr. Melis had been living in Peoria, Ariz.
        Born José Melis Guiu in Havana, Mr. Melis began studying piano when he was 3 years old, gave his first performances a year later and graduated from the Havana Conservatory at the age of 10. His classical training led him to study under eminent pianists in Paris and Cambridge, Mass., and at the Juilliard School in New York.
        But his musical focus shifted from the classical to the contemporary with the help of the United States Army after Mr. Melis was drafted in 1943. The Army, taking advantage of its recruit's expertise, put him in charge of a 40-member orchestra that performed jazz, Broadway tunes and standards at U.S.O. halls.
        Mr. Paar was also serving in the Army, and it was there that he and Mr. Melis became friends. Mr. Melis became a naturalized citizen in 1944, settled in New York after his military service, and was recruited by Mr. Paar as musical director for a string of variety shows that were to make Mr. Paar a staple of American broadcasting -- first with CBS and then, from 1957 through 1962, on NBC's ''Tonight'' show, which was renamed ''The Jack Paar Show'' in 1959.
        Mr. Melis wrote the music for Mr. Paar's ''Tonight'' show theme, ''I-M-4-U,'' with Sev F. Marino providing the lyrics. Besides conducting the show's orchestra, Mr. Melis appeared frequently on the air, bantering and joking with Mr. Paar in an accent that remained unmistakably Cuban, and becoming something of a late-night television personality in his own right.
        His success on television led to recording contracts to perform with, or conduct for, Frank Sinatra, Clark Terry, Tito Puente and others. He also appeared as a soloist with the Boston Pops and several regional symphony orchestras across the nation.
        Mr. Melis's performances became less frequent in the 1980's, when he lost sight in one eye, ultimately going blind about a decade ago, his son said. He also lost much of his hearing.
        Mr. Melis had been a resident of Bronxville, N.Y., but moved to Arizona less than two years ago, after the death of his wife, the former Sue Renfrow, whom he married in 1944.
        Besides his son, who lives in Peoria and Manhattan, Mr. Melis is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Golembieski of East Hampton, Conn.; a brother, Rafael Guiu, of Laurelton, Mass.; and seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      