
        Sam Mills, who defied those who believed he was too small for pro football and became a Pro Bowl linebacker who was honored by the Carolina Panthers with a bronze statue outside their stadium, died Monday. He was 45.
        Mills, the Panthers' linebackers coach, died at his home here after battling intestinal cancer for almost two years, the team announced.
        He was only 5 feet 9 inches and 225 pounds, but Mills played in the National Football League from 1986 to 1997, appearing in his first nine seasons with the New Orleans Saints, then playing for three years with the Panthers. He was a five-time Pro Bowl player and a starter at age 37 in the 1996 Pro Bowl.
        Mills had been the Panthers' linebackers coach since 1999, under George Seifert and the current head coach, John Fox. He was found to have intestinal cancer during training camp in August 2003. Although he missed time undergoing treatment, he remained as a coach and helped the Panthers reach the Super Bowl that season.
        Mills continued as coach through the 2004 season despite his illness. He joined with Panthers linebacker Mark Fields, who was found to have Hodgkin's disease at the same time Mills became ill, to start a fundraising drive called Drop the Hammer on Cancer. They sold bracelets with the words Keep Pounding for $1 each, the proceeds benefiting the Carolinas Medical Center Blumenthal Cancer Center.
        ''He's definitely the best coach I ever had,'' Panthers linebacker Will Witherspoon said in a statement. ''I got to talk to him the last couple of weeks and I knew that he wasn't doing well, but he never wanted to bring that up. He always wanted to focus on how I was doing. There's nothing better than the fact that he concentrated more on other people than he did on himself.''
        Mills, a native of Neptune, N.J., played at Montclair (N.J.) State, a Division III program, from 1977 to 1980 and was a Kodak all-American his senior season.
        He was released by the Cleveland Browns in 1981 and by Toronto of the Canadian Football League in 1982. But he finally broke through in 1983 with the Philadelphia Stars of the now defunct United States Football League. He played three seasons in the U.S.F.L., with Philadelphia and its successor franchise, the Baltimore Stars, before joining the Saints in 1986.
        Mills led New Orleans in tackles five times and reached the Pro Bowl four times, then signed as a free agent with the Panthers, an expansion team, in 1995. He led them in tackles that season and in 1996, when Carolina made a stunning run to the National Football Conference title game.
        After retiring as a player, he was honored by the Panthers with a bronze statue in front of their Bank of America Stadium, and he became the only player in the team's Hall of Honor.
        Mills is survived by his wife, Melanie; his sons, Sam III and Marcus; and his daughters, Larissa and Sierra.
        Correction:  April 21, 2005, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Sam Mills, a former National Football League player, referred incorrectly in some copies to his distinction in the Carolina Panthers' Hall of Honor. He was the first player to be included, not the only member.
      