
        Jay Schulberg, the advertising executive who made milk hip by putting creamy mustaches on the famous and beautiful, died in Doylestown, Pa., on Jan. 12. He was 65, and until recently was a resident of Solebury, Pa.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Kathryn, who survives him.
        As creative head of Ogilvy & Mather in New York, and later as chief creative officer of Bozell Worldwide, Mr. Schulberg devised some of the most familiar campaigns in the country. He sought to avoid the self-consciously trendy, aiming for ads that hinged on concise copy. Once an aspiring screenwriter, he wrote and encouraged memorable tag lines that at times became independently popular.
        To sell American Express travelers checks in the 1970's, he hired a fedora-wearing Karl Malden, then playing a detective on television, to intone: ''Don't leave home without it.'' To promote Huggies disposable diapers, he filmed dimpled, giggling infants to illustrate that ''a dry baby is a happy baby.''
        He declared that the worst headaches are ''Excedrin headaches.'' He also had a grandfatherly figure introduce Country Time Lemonade by promising that it tastes just like ''good old-fashioned lemonade.'' ''He wasn't looking for awards, which is what a lot of people do now,'' said Leo-Arthur Kelmenson, who was Ogilvy & Mather's chairman during Mr. Schulberg's tenure. ''He wanted to create advertising that sold.''
        His clients at Ogilvy also included Hershey's, AT&T, Duracell, Maxwell House, Swanson's, Sports Illustrated and TWA, among others. He left in 1987 to join Bozell, where he developed a reputation for praising his people often and allowing even junior employees to work on premier accounts.
        In 1994, the nation's milk processors hired Bozell to persuade people to drink their milk. Mr. Schulberg knew he wanted to make milk seem cool, but how? His teams suggested an upside-down cow, among other things. Instead they hired Annie Leibovitz to photograph Naomi Campbell, Lauren Bacall and others for ads that initially appeared only in print. They carried the motto ''Milk. What a surprise!'' and included short texts like this one, featuring Joan Rivers: ''Can we talk? Fattening? Oh, grow up. It's skim milk -- and I love it.''
        The ads soon expanded to include men, especially athletes, and were placed on billboards. The slogan evolved into ''Where's your mustache?'' and finally, ''Got milk?'' ''The Milk Mustache Book'' (Ballantine, 1998), which Mr. Schulberg wrote with Bernie Hogya and Sal Taibi, made the New York Times best-seller list.
        Jay William Schulberg was born in Manhattan on July 17, 1939. He graduated from New York University in 1961 and at first planned to be a screenwriter like his cousin Budd Schulberg, who wrote the screenplay for ''On the Waterfront.'' Instead he joined Ogilvy in 1967 as a junior copywriter. ''Where else can a guy who doesn't like to talk much find a successful writing career, but in writing 30-second commercials?'' he told The New York Times in 1985.
        Though he retired in 1999, he occasionally worked on advertising campaigns that interested him. In 2001, he was creative director of an unusual, $10 million public service campaign promoting values like determination, perseverance and selflessness. He focused the campaign on people he called ''the heroes all around us, whose stories are rarely told,'' like Brooke Ellison, a quadriplegic who graduated from Harvard.
        Correction:  January 18, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Jay Schulberg, creator of the milk mustache advertising campaign, misattributed a comment about his goal of creating ads that sold products rather than winning awards. It was made by Kenneth Roman, former chairman of Ogilvy & Mather, not Leo-Arthur Kelmenson. The obituary also misstated Mr. Kelmenson's affiliation. He was a former chairman of Bozell Worldwide, not of Ogilvy & Mather.
      