
        Gene Frankel, a pioneering Off Broadway director and respected acting teacher whose career extended from Broadway to the 70-seat theater on Bond Street that bears his name, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 85.
        The cause was heart failure, said Gail Thacker, the manager of the Gene Frankel Theater.
        With a shock of gray hair, a professorial beard and gravity-defying eyebrows, Mr. Frankel seemed to embody the very image of a Man of the Theater. Workshops held in his tiny black-box space often took on the air of the acting master classes of theatrical lore, with all the inspirational talk, backstage anecdotes and occasional artistic hubris that implies.
        ''You don't just get the Gene Frankel technique,'' goes the motto of his film and theater workshop. ''You get Gene Frankel.''
        An early member of the Actors Studio, Mr. Frankel began his career as an actor, but soon moved behind the scenes and became a prolific presence Off Broadway during the 1950's and 60's. In 1949, frustrated by the lack of a place to call his own, he converted a Hungarian union hall on West 41st Street, where he produced several shows. After the space was razed, Mr. Frankel toured as an actor, but by the mid-1950's was offering classes in directing, writing and acting, even as his own directing career was taking off.
        In 1957, Mr. Frankel won an Obie -- then one of the few Off Broadway awards -- for his direction of Ben Jonson's 17th-century comedy ''Volpone.'' Three years later, he won again for a revival of ''Machinal,'' Sophie Treadwell's feminist classic.
        His biggest critical success, however, may have been in 1961 when he directed Jean Genet's avant-garde drama ''The Blacks'' at St. Marks Playhouse, a groundbreaking all-black production that included the talents of James Earl Jones, Cicely Tyson, Roscoe Lee Browne, Louis Gossett Jr. and Maya Angelou. The production, which ran for more than three years and toured Europe, led to Mr. Frankel's third Obie award and a bundle of other offers. It was one of several politically engaged dramas he staged during the 60's, including ''To Be Young, Gifted and Black,'' an Off Broadway hit in 1969.
        Between 1961 and 1975, Mr. Frankel directed seven Broadway productions, including ''A Cry of Players,'' a William Gibson drama with Anne Bancroft, Frank Langella and René Auberjonois in 1968, which was followed by Arthur Kopit's controversial drama ''Indians,'' with Stacy Keach and Raul Julia, in 1969.
        Not all his uptown productions were successes. ''The Lincoln Mask,'' in 1972, which featured Fred Gwynne and Eva Marie Saint, lasted only one week, and ''Once There Was a Russian,'' in 1961, with Walter Matthau, lasted one night.
        ''The Night That Made America Famous,'' a short-lived 1975 Harry Chapin musical, was Mr. Frankel's last Broadway credit, but he worked extensively on the regional theater circuit and in Europe, and directed several of his productions for television. Until the end of his life, he continued to be active with his workshop, where his students over the years were as varied as Loretta Swit (of ''MASH'' television fame) and the famed character actor James Coco.
        After several of the workshop's homes fell through -- one, at the Mercer Arts Center on West Fourth Street, literally collapsed in 1973 -- the Gene Frankel Theater opened on Bond Street in 1988. Ms. Thacker said the theater would continue to operate at that space but no longer offer classes. Mr. Frankel is survived by a daughter, Laura Ann Frankel, of Laurel, Md.
        The Web site for Mr. Frankel's workshop lists dozens famous actors who have studied or have been directed by him. And in an interview posted there, Mr. Frankel, gave an emphatic summation of what it takes to succeed in the theater.
        ''Talent is not enough,'' he said. ''You must have courage, the courage to travel to those dimly lit spaces where the talent tells you to go. You must be ready to make that perilous but thrilling journey if you want to or, more pointedly, if you need to be an actor.''
      