
        H. Richard Uviller, a provocative and influential legal educator who salted his scholarly analyses with gritty personal experiences he had collected as a prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was bladder cancer, his daughter, Daphne Rachel Uviller, said.
        In his writing and his teaching as a professor of criminal law at Columbia Law School, Mr. Uviller was known for his deft balancing of defendants' constitutional rights and the need to convict the guilty. Identified as neither liberal nor conservative, he favored a pragmatic approach rooted in close observation of the actual behavior of those involved in the criminal justice system.
        ''Unlike most people, he was not hampered in his ideas by a doctrine or a label,'' said Mary Jo White, the former United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a onetime student of Mr. Uviller's. ''You had no idea what he was going to say on a given day,'' she continued in an interview yesterday.
        His book ''Tempered Zeal: A Columbia University Professor's Year on the Streets With the New York City Police'' (Contemporary Books, 1988), reported his observations of a special robbery investigation unit. He watched police officers conduct searches, lineups, interrogations and interviews. He saw no flashy car chases or shootouts, just a gripping day-to-day routine.
        Mr. Uviller found that officers had grudgingly adapted to rulings by the Supreme Court that widened the rights of the accused. He reported that despite complaints about the new procedures, the police ''behave in a very controlled way.''
        He nonetheless said that police perjury is ''the demon in the criminal process'' and did not play down its seriousness. He suggested that the police sometimes lied to keep valid but illegally obtained evidence in a case rather than to convict the innocent.
        After public outrage in 1995 over O.J. Simpson's acquittal on murder charges, Mr. Uviller wrote a book criticizing the criminal justice system without mentioning the Simpson trial. ''Virtual Justice: The Flawed Prosecution of Crime in America'' (Yale, 1996) suggested modern technology to reform aspects of the system, like a radio hookup to allow search warrants to be issued quickly to police officers in the field.
        He also expressed worries that competing lawyers can make trials seem like sporting events, not sober attempts to collect the best possible evidence. One of his proposed solutions was to give judges more power to direct courtroom case presentation and to take part in fact-finding.
        Mr. Uviller made a similar proposal to increase the power of judges in an interview with The New York Times in 1999. The issue was mental illness as a criminal defense; he said juries were not necessarily good at weighing the testimony of competing experts. Therefore, he said, experts should only testify before a judge, who would then tell jurors whether the defendant should be considered mentally ill. If the answer was yes, the jury would decide whether he was culpable despite the illness.
        In 2002 Mr. Uviller, writing with William G. Merkel, ventured into new terrain, exploring the constitutional guarantee of the right to bear arms. They argued in ''The Militia and the Right to Bear Arms, or How the Second Amendment Fell Silent'' (Duke) that the right no longer applied to individuals.
        Herman Richard Uviller was born on July 3, 1929, in Manhattan, and attended private schools there before graduating from Harvard in 1951 and Yale Law School in 1953. He worked for a year in the Justice Department in Washington, and then for 14 years in the Manhattan district attorney's office under Frank Hogan. Mr. Uviller was chief of the appeals bureau for seven years and argued nine cases before the United States Supreme Court.
        He joined the faculty of Columbia Law School in 1968 and helped develop new criminal law courses, as the number of students taking them nearly tripled to 100 over a decade, said Harold Edgar, a professor at the law school.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Manhattan, Mr. Uviller is survived by his wife, the former Rena Katz, a justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan; his sister, Ellen Keniston, of Cambridge, Mass.; and a granddaughter.
      