
        James A. Houston, a writer and artist almost single-handedly responsible for introducing contemporary Eskimo art to an international audience, died on Sunday in New London, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Stonington, Conn.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack, his wife, Alice, said.
        A Canadian who lived in the United States since the early 1960's, Mr. Houston spent more than a decade among the Inuit of Canada's eastern Arctic in the years after World War II. There, he introduced local people to printmaking, helped them establish a profitable crafts cooperative to sell their prints and sculpture, and brought their work, then virtually unknown to outsiders, to the attention of museums and collectors worldwide.
        As an artist, Mr. Houston was known for his prints depicting Arctic subjects, and was for many years a leading designer for Steuben Glass. He was also known for his novel ''The White Dawn'' (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1971) and for illustrated children's books and several memoirs.
        Reviewing Mr. Houston's memoir ''Confessions of an Igloo Dweller'' (Houghton Mifflin) in The New York Times Book Review in 1996, Stuart McLean singled out for praise an attribute that is almost certainly unique in English letters.
        ''Where else,'' he wrote, ''might you learn how to capture a wolverine with a piece of Kleenex?''
        Based in the village of Cape Dorset on West Baffin Island, Mr. Houston slept in igloos; traveled between remote settlements by dogsled; ate seal meat and caribou, both raw; climbed frozen waterfalls 40 feet high; joined in seal hunts; listened to traditional stories told round the fire; and swatted battalions of mosquitoes.
        He also survived falls into freezing water, getting lost in a snowstorm and being stranded on the ice for five days after the small plane in which he was traveling was forced to land in the middle of nowhere.
        James Archibald Houston was born in Toronto on June 12, 1921. His father, a clothing importer, often went into the Canadian wilderness to trade with Indians and Eskimos, regaling the family with stories of his travels. James, who began drawing as a boy, studied art in Toronto and in Paris, and during World War II served in the Canadian Army.
        In 1948, disenchanted with city life and seeking something satisfying to draw, Mr. Houston hitched a ride on a single-engine plane to an Inuit village in Arctic Quebec. As he told The New Yorker in 1988, ''I saw rocks, the autumn tundra, long skeins of ice drifting south to melt in Hudson Bay, and I knew this was the place I'd been looking for.''
        Armed with only a sleeping bag, a toothbrush, sketchbooks and one can of peaches, Mr. Houston planned to stay several days. With occasional interruptions, he stayed 14 years.
        Although archaeologists knew about the voluptuous soapstone sculptures carved by ancient Eskimos, no one knew that the modern Inuit continued to make similar pieces. Carefully wrapped and packed away for safekeeping, the contemporary sculptures were rarely displayed in Inuit homes.
        In his first days in Cape Dorset, Mr. Houston sketched local people, often giving them the drawings. (They called him Saomik, the Left-Handed One.) One day, a villager presented him with a tiny, exquisite carving of a caribou in exchange. It so delighted Mr. Houston that he opened the canned peaches and passed them round the igloo.
        He assumed the carving was ancient, but when he learned it had been made recently, Mr. Houston realized that art could provide an income for the Inuit, who had suffered with the decline of the fur trade. He began marketing their sculpture, and in 1949 organized the first major exhibition of Inuit work, in Montreal.
        Mr. Houston, who began teaching printmaking in the Arctic in the late 1950's, also organized the West Baffin Eskimo Co-Operative, through which the Inuit sold their work. Today, trade in Inuit art runs to more than $10 million annually.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Houston became the first civil administrator of West Baffin Island. He left the post in 1962 to work for Steuben, for which he produced designs until his death. Among the best known is ''Arctic Fisherman,'' a sculpture of an Eskimo kneeling to spear a fish suspended in an icy block of glass. Mr. Houston's work was the subject of a major retrospective at Steuben in 2002.
        Mr. Houston's first marriage, to the former Alma Bardon, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Alice Watson; a sister, Barbara Houston Parker of Palm Harbor, Fla.; two sons from his first marriage, John, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Sam, of Aspen, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
        (To trap a wolverine, saturate a Kleenex with a certain redolent perfume, available in the Arctic in the 1950's. Wolverines find it irresistible.)
      