
        Robert R. Granville, an F.B.I. agent in New York who headed the team that arrested Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died on April 12 at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Crystal River.
        He had had a stroke two weeks earlier, said his son, Col. Robert R. Granville Jr., M.D.
        Mr. Granville began his career at the F.B.I. in 1940 and was promoted to field supervisor of Soviet espionage in the New York office in 1946. On July 17, 1950, he and fellow agents arrested Julius Rosenberg in his apartment at 10 Monroe Street on the Lower East Side. Rosenberg was charged with providing atomic secrets to the Soviet Union, information he was accused of obtaining from his brother-in-law, David Greenglass, a former machinist at the atomic weapons center in Los Alamos, N.M.
        Three weeks later, on Aug. 11, Mr. Granville and other agents arrested Rosenberg's wife, Ethel, as she left the United States Court House at Foley Square after testifying before a grand jury.
        In March 1951 the Rosenbergs were convicted of conspiracy to commit espionage, and were sentenced to death. After protracted legal appeals and protests by those who questioned their guilt or the severity of the punishment, they were executed in June 1953.
        Mr. Granville was involved in another sensational Cold War case, that of Judith Coplon, a young analyst at the Justice Department accused in 1949 of passing government secrets to the Soviets through her lover, Valentin A. Gubitchev, an engineer and official at the United Nations.
        Believing that Ms. Coplon had just handed F.B.I. documents to Mr. Gubitchev, Mr. Granville arrested the couple as they walked along Third Avenue. Although Ms. Coplon was found guilty in two trials, her conviction was eventually overturned because Mr. Granville had arrested her without a warrant and because the F.B.I. had used illegal wiretaps during surveillance.
        Mr. Granville left the F.B.I. in 1952 when he was chosen by Harry S. Truman to head the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunities, a group formed to enhance federal efforts to ban discrimination in the defense industries.
        Later, he worked as an executive at the General Cable Company and as executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Diabetes Association.
        Robert Richey Granville was born in 1916 in Wallace, Idaho, and received a B.S. in business administration and a law degree from the University of Idaho.
        Mr. Granville's first wife, Jean, died in 1987. In addition to Colonel Granville, a son from his first marriage, who is stationed at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, he is survived by his wife, Leslie; a daughter from his first marriage, Sandy Sheehy of Galveston, Tex.; two grandsons; and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 28, 2005, Thursday  A picture on Sunday with an obituary of Robert R. Granville, the F.B.I. agent in charge of the team that arrested Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, was published in error. The man at the left, shown escorting Mr. Rosenberg to a court appearance, was John D.A. Harrington, a special agent on the espionage squad; Mr. Granville was not pictured. (The man at the right was William F. Norton Jr., also a special agent on the espionage squad.)
      