
        John Hultberg, an American abstract painter and printmaker who came to the fore with the avant-garde after World War II, died on April 15 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, according to Christopher Wieliczko, an associate.
        Mr. Hultberg made a name for himself in the 1950's with powerful landscapes, fractured into slabs under ominous horizons; multiplicities of bizarre, huddled shapes; and dense, semiabstract urban wastelands dappled with harsh brilliance and vague human touches. Their air of mystery and forceful use of color earned him awards at exhibitions that began in the 1950's and continued for five decades.
        His style was highly idiosyncratic and often disturbing in its subject matter. Bottle greens, neon reds and cobalt blues lightened the tone, but critics also noted a whiff of mysticism in his work and objected to his often harsh, debris-littered scenes bathed in dread.
        John Philip Hultberg was born in Berkeley, Calif. He graduated from Fresno State College in 1943, was a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II and studied on the G.I. Bill at the San Francisco School of Art.
        Richard Diebenkorn was a friend and mentor, and Mark Rothko and Clyfford Still were among his teachers. He went to New York in 1952 to continue his studies at the Art Students League.
        He was introduced that year in a show of new talent at the Museum of Modern Art and won first prize at the Corcoran Biennial in Washington in 1955. A year spent in Paris in 1954 brought his work to the attention of the European audience.
        His work is included in many collections, including the Guggenheim, Metropolitan and Whitney Museums.
        He published several books, including ''Sole Witness'' (W.W.P. Press, 2005), a collection of his art and poems. A memoir, ''VagaBondage,'' is scheduled for publication next year. He taught at institutions on both coasts and in Hawaii, and since 1991 was on the faculty of the Art Students League, where he gave classes until the week he died.
        Mr. Hultberg's first marriage, to Hilary Blech, ended in divorce. His marriage to the painter Lynne Drexler, in 1962, ended in a separation in 1983; she died in 1999. He is survived by his partner and agent, Elaine Wechsler; a son, Carl R., of Manhattan; two brothers, Donald, of Seattle, and Paul, of Pomona, N.Y.; a sister, Helen Granger of Vallejo, Calif.; and a grandson.
      