
        Alexander J. Trotman, who rose from a student trainee at Ford Motor to become the company's chief executive for much of the 1990's, died on Monday in Yorkshire, England. He was 71.
        Ford said in a statement that Mr. Trotman had died after a brief illness.
        From 1993 to 1998, Mr. Trotman held the dual roles of chief executive and chairman at Ford. He led the company through some of its most financially robust times as sales of light trucks and sport utility vehicles helped Ford reposition the American Big Three auto companies as the dominant force in the industry.
        William Clay Ford Jr., the company's current chairman and chief executive, said in a statement, ''He was the driving force behind a vast array of visionary changes in Ford Motor Company's global management and innovative products.''
        Ford granted Mr. Trotman an unusual exemption to the company's customary retirement age of 65 so it could have more time to find his successor. But he stepped down in December 1998, a year earlier than expected, after unsuccessfully trying to appoint a successor of his own choosing. He was said to have been unhappy with attempts by the Ford family to install a Ford in the company's top position.
        The board decided to split Mr. Trotman's dual title, and awarded the chairman's position to Mr. Ford, who is the great-grandson of the founder Henry Ford. It gave the position of chief executive to Jacques Nasser, who at the time led the company's North American and European operations. When the board announced its decision at a meeting in October 1998, Mr. Trotman was reported to have been less than thrilled. ''So, Prince William,'' he said to members of the board, ''now you have your monarchy.''
        In contrast to more visible Detroit chief executives like Lee Iacocca of Chrysler and Mr. Nasser, who was ousted in 2001 after Ford's losses soared, Mr. Trotman was viewed as low key. ''He was very much a backroom C.E.O.,'' said David Cole, president of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
        Alexander James Trotman was born in England, but moved to Scotland with his parents as a young man. He enlisted in the Royal Air Force and served as a navigator. Mr. Trotman joined Ford in 1955 as a student intern in the purchasing department. He spent his entire adult career at Ford. His first assignment in the United States came in 1969.
        He eventually rose to become chairman of Ford of Europe in the 1980's before taking charge of Ford's North American operations, and then assuming the chief executive's job in 1993.
        Short in stature, Mr. Trotman had a no-nonsense personality and a Scottish brogue. But he displayed a sense of humor in 1994, when the satirist Michael Moore set out to prove that chief executives could not do their companies' most basic jobs. Donning overalls, Mr. Trotman showed Mr. Moore how to change the oil on a Ford Explorer.
        Mr. Trotman is survived by his wife, Valerie, and four grown children.
      