
        Percy Heath, whose forceful and buoyant bass playing anchored the Modern Jazz Quartet for its entire four-decade existence, died yesterday in Southampton, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Montauk, on Long Island.
        The cause of death was bone cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Heath recorded with most of the leading musicians in modern jazz, including Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Thelonious Monk, John Coltrane and Ornette Coleman. But from the early 1950's through the middle 1970's, most of his recording activity and all of his live performances were devoted to the group known to its fans around the world as the M.J.Q.
        He had been playing bass for only about four years when he became a charter member of the quartet, whose musical director was the pianist and composer John Lewis. ''John told me, 'Percy, you don't know enough about what we're going to do, so you better get yourself lessons,''' Mr. Heath told the jazz critic Gary Giddins. ''John's music was a challenge and I appreciated it.''
        Mr. Heath proved to be a quick study, mastering Mr. Lewis's sophisticated compositions and arrangements and adding an unpretentious, bluesy sensibility of his own. He rarely took a solo, and his role in the quartet by its very nature drew less attention than the work of Mr. Lewis and the vibraphonist Milt Jackson. But his contributions were no less essential to the group's distinctive sound, or to its remarkable longevity and success.
        Percy Heath was born on April 30, 1923, in Wilmington, N.C., and grew up in Philadelphia. His father was an amateur clarinetist and his mother sang in a church choir. He and his two younger brothers all became interested in music early in life.
        All three Heath brothers went on to become professional musicians, and eventually they worked together. Mr. Heath took up the bass relatively late in life. His first instrument was the violin, which he studied as a child.
        During World War II he served with the Army Air Corps in Alabama, where he trained as a pilot; he was a member of the Tuskegee Airmen.
        Mr. Heath began playing bass as a student at the Granoff School of Music in Philadelphia in 1946.
        Within a few months he was performing with local jazz bands and working as the house bassist at the Down Beat, a Philadelphia nightclub. He moved to New York City in 1947 with his brother Jimmy, a saxophonist and composer, and in 1950 they both joined Dizzy Gillespie's group.
        Not long after that, Mr. Heath and three other former Gillespie sidemen -- Mr. Lewis, Mr. Jackson and the drummer Kenny Clarke -- formed the Modern Jazz Quartet.
        The quartet stayed together from 1952 to 1974, with only one personnel change: Kenny Clarke left in 1955 and was replaced by Connie Kay. After the group disbanded temporarily, Mr. Heath began working with his brother Jimmy and his youngest brother, Albert, a drummer.
        The Heath Brothers specialized in a loose, freewheeling brand of jazz that was very different from the more dignified and restrained work of the Modern Jazz Quartet. Percy was also much more prominently in the spotlight; he even played the melody line on several numbers, often on a cello tuned like a bass, which he jokingly called a ''baby bass.''
        The Heath Brothers remained together until the Modern Jazz Quartet reunited in the early 1980's, and they continued to work together occasionally over the next two decades during the quartet's hiatuses. The group recorded albums for the Columbia, Concord, Antilles and Strata East labels.
        Percy Heath remained the backbone of the reunited Modern Jazz Quartet for the rest of its existence. He was briefly joined there by his brother Albert, who became the group's drummer after Kay died in 1994.
        But Percy finally decided he had had enough of the grueling life of a traveling musician. When he announced that he was through with touring, rather than replace him, the other members of the group decided to shut it down, quietly and without fanfare.
        The Modern Jazz Quartet never performed again. Jackson died in 1999, Lewis in 2001.
        In recent years Mr. Heath continued to perform occasionally with his brothers, but he spent most of his time at his house in Montauk, where he devoted himself to fishing. He carried a rod when touring with the Modern Jazz Quartet. ''I made a living,'' he once said, ''to go fishing.''
        Mr. Heath's survivors include his wife, June; his sons Percy III, Jason and Stuart; and his two brothers.
        More than half a century after he first entered a recording studio, Mr. Heath -- who by his own count had played on more than 300 records -- did something he had never done before. In 2004, shortly before his 81st birthday, the small Daddy Jazz label released an album by Mr. Heath, ''A Love Song.'' It was his first recording as a leader.
      