
        Red Horner, a Hall of Fame defenseman who was one of hockey's most rugged players of the 1930's, died Wednesday in Toronto. He was 95.
        His death was announced by the National Hockey League, which said he was believed to be its oldest former player.
        Making his debut in 1928, Horner played 12 seasons for the Toronto Maple Leafs and was their captain from 1938 to 1940. He led the league in penalty minutes for eight consecutive seasons, receiving 1,264 penalty minutes to go with 42 goals and 110 assists. His 167 penalty minutes in 1936 established a league record that stood for 20 years.
        Horner played with the Maple Leafs when they won their first Stanley Cup championship in the 1931-32 season. He was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1965.
        ''No one, not even the toughest guys in the N.H.L., took liberties with the Leafs,'' King Clancy, a member of the Hall of Fame who was often paired with Horner on defense, was quoted by The Toronto Star as having said. ''Do one of us dirt and you had to deal with Red. That was absolutely no fun at all. He was as tough as any man who ever played the game, an excellent body-checker who fought only when necessary.''
        Horner did his share of fighting the night of Dec. 12, 1933, in one of the most frightening episodes in league history, when the Maple Leafs played the Bruins in Boston.
        In the second period, Horner slammed Eddie Shore, the Bruins' tough defenseman and a future Hall of Famer, into the boards. Shore then sent Maple Leafs wing Ace Bailey head-first to the ice -- tripping him with his stick, according to the Associated Press account -- leaving Bailey with a fractured skull. Moments later, Horner knocked Shore unconscious with a right to the jaw. Conn Smythe, the owner of the Maple Leafs, then fought with several fans near the Maple Leafs' dressing room.
        Bailey underwent brain surgery and his career was ended. Shore, who sustained a bloody scalp, received a 16-game ban while Horner was suspended for 6 games.
        Reginald Horner, a native of Lynden, Ontario, worked for two seasons as an N.H.L. linesman when his playing days ended and later owned a coal company.
        He is survived by his son, Robert, of Kelowna, British Columbia; and his daughters, Sybil Spragge, of Kamloops, British Columbia, Judy Fox, of Cambridge, Ontario, and Patricia Butler, of Oshawa, Ontario. His wife, Isabel, died in 1991.
        On Feb. 13, 1999, when the Maple Leafs faced the Chicago Blackhawks in the last game at Maple Leaf Gardens, Horner and Mush March, a former Blackhawk, who had played against Horner in 1931 for the first game at the arena, took a ceremonial face-off. And Horner passed a ceremonial banner to Mats Sundin, one Maple Leafs captain saluting another.
        Correction:  May 5, 2005, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Red Horner, a Hall of Fame hockey defenseman, omitted his first name. He was George Reginald Horner.
      