
        Ted F. Atkinson, a member of horse racing's Hall of Fame and the first jockey to win more than $1 million in purses in a season, died Thursday at his home in Beaver Dam, Va. He was 88.
        Atkinson's death followed a lengthy illness, his daughter, Cathie Metzler, said Friday.
        Atkinson, who led all North American riders in money earned and races won in 1944 and 1946, was aboard War Relic when he upset the 1941 Triple Crown winner, Whirlaway, in the Narragansett Special that year.
        ''But it was Tom Fool who he considered was the best horse he ever rode,'' Ms. Metzler said in a telephone interview.
        Tom Fool won 21 of his 30 races, all with Atkinson aboard. Tom Fool was named the champion 2-year-old in 1951 and was the Horse of the Year in 1953, when he became the second horse to sweep New York's Triple Crown -- the Metropolitan, Suburban and Brooklyn handicaps -- and won all 10 of his races as a 4-year-old.
        Tom Fool was enshrined in the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in 1960, three years after Atkinson.
        Theodore Frederick Atkinson was born June 17, 1916, in Toronto. His family moved to the United States when he was 3. According to his biography at the Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame, Atkinson worked for $8 a week loading and labeling bottles at a chemical plant in New York during the Depression.
        Atkinson did not ride in a race until he was 21.
        ''He wasn't a natural,'' H. Allen Jerkens, the Hall of Fame trainer, recalled during a telephone interview Friday. ''He wasn't even around a horse until he was 18.''
        Atkinson's riding career spanned from 1938 to 1959. According to his biography at the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame, Atkinson rode 3,795 winners in 23,661 career mounts, a winning percentage of 16 percent. Atkinson spent half of his career as a contract rider for Greentree Stable. Along with Tom Fool, Atkinson's significant mounts included Devil Diver and Gallorette, who are also in the Hall of Fame.
        Jerkens said Atkinson's victory on the Jerkens-trained Admiral Vee in the 1958 Gallant Fox Handicap at Aqueduct was the final stakes victory of Atkinson's career.
        ''He was right up there with Arcaro,'' Jerkens said, referring to Atkinson's contemporary, the Hall of Fame jockey Eddie Arcaro, who is considered by many to be the greatest rider ever. ''He wasn't as big a name as Arcaro, but Arcaro had trouble getting by him.''
        Ms. Metzler recalled that her father was close friends with the jockeys George Woolf and Red Pollard, who were instrumental in Seabiscuit's career. Woolf was killed in a fall during a race at Santa Anita in 1946, and Ms. Metzler said, ''Dad was riding right next to him.''
        Because of his unorthodox style of using the whip during a race, Atkinson was nicknamed ''the Slasher.'' ''But he never put a mark on a horse,'' Jerkens said. ''He had a different way of whipping.''
        But he did not like the nickname, said his granddaughter, Caton Bredar, in a telephone interview from Churchill Downs, where she was working as a racing analyst for the television station WAVE in Louisville, Ky. ''It gave a false impression,'' she said. ''It was more the style he learned. What he was known for was his integrity. He was very tough. But he was always very fair and very respectful.''
        Ms. Bredar said her grandfather also kept a diary with entries on every horse he ever rode, which helped lead to his other nickname, ''the Professor.''
        ''He did always tell me that Tom Fool was not only the best horse he ever rode, but the most intelligent horse he ever rode,'' Ms. Bredar said. ''He wrote in his diary that Tom Fool had muscles in his eyebrows.''
        After his riding career, Atkinson served as a racing steward on the Chicago circuit from 1960 to the mid-1970's, Ms. Metzler said.
        Atkinson is survived by his wife, Martha; his daughter, Cathie; sons John and Mark; and three grandchildren, Johanna, William and Caton.
      