
        Robert Farnon, a composer and arranger who was a leading figure in the once-popular genre of light orchestral music, died on April 23 on Guernsey, in the British Channel Islands. He was 87 and had been a longtime resident of Guernsey.
        His death was announced by David Ades, a friend and music historian who is the secretary of the Robert Farnon Society.
        Mr. Farnon's style was emblematic of what was called light music -- orchestral scores written with sophistication and some internal complexity, but never taxing for the listener's ear. His compositions, including ''Journey Into Melody,'' ''Jumping Bean,'' ''Peanut Polka'' and ''The Westminster Waltz,'' enjoyed wide popularity in Britain in the postwar decades, when much serious classical music was getting denser and more obtuse.
        Mr. Farnon was born in Toronto, and began his musical career as a trumpeter in dance bands and in Percy Faith's CBC Orchestra. In World War II he went to Britain as the conductor of the Canadian Band of the Allied Expeditionary Force, where he played alongside Glenn Miller and George Melachrino.
        He remained in Britain after the war to work on film scores, and he quickly became known as a singularly skilled arranger and composer.
        In addition to light music's popularity with listeners, it was highly useful in the entertainment industry as ready-made melodies that could easily be added to films and newsreels, or used as themes for television and radio programs. Mr. Farnon wrote hundreds of pieces of this so-called production music. He also wrote the scores or worked as the music director for several dozen films, including ''Captain Horatio Hornblower'' (1951), starring Gregory Peck, and for the 1960's television series ''The Prisoner.''
        Known as a skilled and elegant writer, Mr. Farnon worked as an arranger and conductor with Tony Bennett, Lena Horne, George Shearing, Eileen Farrell and Sarah Vaughan, among others. Frank Sinatra recorded ''Sinatra Sings Great Songs From Great Britain,'' believed to be the only album he made outside the United States, with Mr. Farnon in 1962.
        Mr. Farnon was praised widely by musicians for his compositions and arrangements. John Williams, Henry Mancini and Quincy Jones have all acknowledged his influence, and André Previn once called him ''the world's greatest arranger.''
        He continued to work extensively into the 90's, often with jazz singers and instrumentalists. He won a Grammy Award for best instrumental arrangement in 1996 for a recording of the jazz trombonist J.J. Johnson's composition ''Lament.'' Over the course of his career he also won the Ivor Novello Award, the British music industry prize, four times.
        His survivors include his wife, Patricia, five sons and two daughters.
        Among Mr. Farnon's earliest compositions were two symphonies, and he never lost his interest in classical music. He recently completed his third symphony, which is to have its premiere in Edinburgh in May.
      