
        Benjamin Mordecai, a Broadway producer, general manager and former managing director of the Yale Repertory Theater, died on Sunday in New Haven. He was 60.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Sherry Lynn Morley Mordecai.
        At his death, Mr. Mordecai was the associate dean and chair of the Yale School of Drama's department of theater management.
        He will best be remembered for championing the work of August Wilson, whose epic cycle of plays about the African-American experience in the 20th century was recently concluded when the 10th in the cycle, ''Radio Golf,'' had its premiere at Yale Rep.
        This season, Mr. Mordecai is represented on Broadway by ''Brooklyn the Musical.''
        Over the years, Mr. Mordecai was involved with more than a dozen Tony Award nominees for best play. Seven of those nominations were for Mr. Wilson's plays. As one of the producers of Mr. Wilson's ''Fences'' and Tony Kushner's two-part ''Angels in America,'' Mr. Mordecai won three Tonys, while Yale Rep won the Tony for regional theater in 1991 during his tenure -- from 1982 to 1993 -- as managing director. For most of those years Mr. Mordecai worked closely with Lloyd Richards, the longtime director of Mr. Wilson's work and the theater's artistic director from 1979 to 1991.
        Born in Manhattan on Dec. 10, 1944, Benjamin Mordecai was brought up in New York but received his education in the Midwest. He had a Bachelor of Arts from Buena Vista University in Iowa in 1967 and a Master of Arts from Eastern Michigan University in 1968. He was a founder of the Indiana Repertory Theater in Indianapolis, where he was the producing director for 11 years.
        While Mr. Mordecai and Mr. Richards were in charge of Yale Rep, five plays in Mr. Wilson's cycle -- ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' ''Fences,'' ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone,'' ''The Piano Lesson'' and ''Two Trains Running'' -- moved from the theater to Broadway.
        After he left Yale Rep, Mr. Mordecai founded the production company Sageworks, dedicated to producing the subsequent plays in the Wilson cycle. While they received wide acclaim, Mr. Wilson's plays were generally not commercial successes on Broadway, with the exception of ''Fences.''
        But Mr. Mordecai was always more concerned with the artistic value and social content of his productions than with their commercial potential. He did not produce a Broadway musical, the real cash cows of the business, until the recent revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Flower Drum Song,'' in 2002, which was not a success.
        Mr. Mordecai's commitment to plays of serious social statement and artistic ambition went against the grain of the increasingly bottom-line-conscious Broadway industry, a fact put in sharp relief last fall when he was unable to secure adequate financing for Mr. Wilson's ''Gem of the Ocean.'' The Broadway premiere had to be postponed while other financing was found, and Mr. Mordecai was removed as the lead producer.
        Additional productions that traveled from Yale to Broadway during Mr. Mordecai's tenure included three plays by Athol Fugard; Lee Blessing's ''Walk in the Woods''; and revivals of Eugene O'Neill's ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' and ''Ah, Wilderness!'' starring Jason Robards and Colleen Dewhurst.
        In addition to his wife, of Guilford, Conn., Mr. Mordecai is survived by a daughter, Rachel Elizabeth Mordecai, of Los Angeles.
      