
        Willard Clyde Mackey Jr., a former chief executive of McCann Erickson Worldwide who helped build it into one of advertising's foremost powerhouses, died on April 16 in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Vero Beach and New Canaan, Conn.
        The death was announced by Eugene H. Kummel, chairman emeritus of the company.
        Mr. Mackey retired in 1985 as chairman and chief executive. He was the first chief executive to run the combined domestic and overseas operations of McCann, the largest component of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
        McCann had 111 agencies in 65 countries; under Mr. Mackey, billings reached nearly $750 million domestically and more than $2 billion worldwide.
        Willard Mackey, who was known as Bill, was born in Rockford, Ill. He enrolled in Beloit College in Wisconsin in 1940 but enlisted in the Marine Corps after Pearl Harbor and was commissioned a second lieutenant. He took part in the battle for Okinawa and returned home as a first lieutenant with a Silver Star and Purple Heart.
        After graduating from Beloit in 1947, he started in advertising as a mail clerk in Rockford. Moving to Kankakee, Ill., he worked for General Foods and Gaines Dog Food. He first went to New York in 1956 as an account executive at Sullivan, Stauffer, and rose to vice president.
        His next stop, in 1963, was Atlanta and the McCann-Marschalk agency, handling the Coca-Cola account. He joined Coca-Cola as its international marketing director for a few years but returned to New York in 1970 as chairman and chief executive of Marschalk. Mr. Mackey was named president of McCann Erickson Worldwide in 1975, vice chairman in 1978 and the company's chief executive in 1980.
        Mr. Mackey's first wife, Lois Wilson Mackey, died in 1986 after 41 years of marriage. Surviving him are his second wife, Diane; a daughter, Dr. Barbara Seagle of Jamaica Plain, Mass.; two sons, Dr. William Mackey of Newton, Mass., and David Mackey of Needham, Mass.; his sister, Betty Chenicek of Arlington, Tex.; three stepchildren, Hyatt Hunter of Guilford, Conn., Trip Hunter of Norwalk, Conn., and Alison Potter of New Canaan, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      