
        Milton Frederick Rosenthal, a former chairman of the chemical giant Engelhard Corporation, died on May 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        His death was announced by the family.
        Mr. Rosenthal, a lawyer by training, started his business career in 1946 with the Hugo Stinnes Corporation, the American holding company for a ruined German industrial empire. Mr. Rosenthal became president and chief executive of the company and rebuilt it into a going concern worth about $300 million in the early 1960's.
        In 1964 he became president of the Minerals and Chemicals Philipp Corporation, whose Philipp Brothers division was one of the world's largest traders of steel, nonferrous metals and chemicals. Three years later, the company merged with Engelhard Industries to become Engelhard Minerals and Chemicals.
        Mr. Rosenthal became president and chief operating officer of the combined enterprise. In 1971, he was elected chief executive, succeeding Charles W. Engelhard, the last family member to head the company.
        Under Mr. Rosenthal, the company became primarily a maker of specialty chemicals. In 1981 the Philipp Brothers Corporation, a giant commodities trader, and Engelhard parted company, and Mr. Rosenthal became the nonexecutive chairman of what became the Engelhard Corporation, with headquarters in Iselin, N.J. He retired in 1986.
        Milton Rosenthal was born in New York City. He graduated from City College in 1932 and received his law degree at Columbia in 1935. He served as a first lieutenant in the United States Army judge advocate general's office in World War II before joining the Stinnes Corporation as secretary and treasurer in 1946.
        He was a life trustee of Mount Sinai Medical Center, where the Frieda and Milton F. Rosenthal Coronary Care Unit is named for him and his wife of 62 years, Frieda Bojar Rosenthal.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Rosenthal is survived by their daughter, Anne Mitro of Moreland Hills, Ohio, and two grandsons.
      