
        Wilson A. Seibert Jr., who helped create some of Madison Avenue's most memorable advertising campaigns in a three-decade career at J. Walter Thompson, died on April 20 in Chatham, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Chatham and Naples, Fla.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, his son, Andrew, said.
        In his years at the flagship New York office of Thompson, now known as JWT, Mr. Seibert, a copywriter and creative executive, helped produce thousands of radio and television commercials as well as print advertisements and posters. He worked on campaigns for the Marine Corps as well as for brands like Chesterfield and L&M cigarettes, French's mustard, Gillette blades, Kodak cameras and film, Lux soap, Pan American airlines and Rheingold beer.
        Materials in the JWT archives at Duke University credit Mr. Seibert with working on familiar slogans like ''The Marines are looking for a few good men''; ''Twenty-one great tobaccos make 20 wonderful smokes,'' for Chesterfield; ''A silly millimeter longer,'' for Chesterfield 101's; ''The sunshine mustard,'' for French's; ''That's the beauty of Lux''; ''Pan Am makes the going great''; ''America's storyteller,'' for Kodak; and ''My beer is Rheingold, the dry beer.''
        As part of his duties for Rheingold, the first beer sponsor of the New York Mets, Mr. Seibert helped introduce the team when it joined the National League in 1962.
        Mr. Seibert won numerous honors. A poster version of an ad he did for the Marines, carrying the theme ''We don't promise you a rose garden,'' was placed on display at the Smithsonian Institution.
        Mr. Seibert joined Thompson in 1950, after serving in the Navy in the Pacific in World War II and graduating from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. He rose to become an executive vice president, holding posts like executive creative director for the New York office.
        Mr. Seibert left Thompson in 1982 to join Arnold & Company in Boston, now Arnold Worldwide, as executive vice president for creative services. After leaving Arnold in the mid-1980's, his son said, Mr. Seibert freelanced for various agencies.
        Mr. Seibert was born in Brooklyn on May 2, 1927.
        In addition to his son, of New York, Mr. Seibert is survived by his wife of 52 years, Susan; two daughters Sara Seibert of Redondo Beach, Calif., and Susan Seibert Cooney of Ossining, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
        Another daughter, Dena Seibert Thomas of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., died of leukemia a day after her father's death, Andrew Seibert said.
      