
        Eddie Barclay, who for three decades after World War II was arguably the most powerful music mogul in Europe and inarguably the most flamboyant, died on May 13 in Paris. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family told Agence France-Presse.
        The founder and longtime head of Barclay Records, Mr. Barclay was best known for three things: popularizing American jazz in France in the postwar years; keeping the traditional French chanson alive into the age of rock 'n' roll; and presiding over parties so lavish that they were considered just the tiniest bit excessive even by the standards of the French Riviera, where he owned a palatial home.
        He worked with Quincy Jones, and recorded or promoted singers including Jacques Brel, Charles Aznavour, Léo Ferré, Mireille Mathieu and Blossom Dearie. Among the guests at some of his glittering parties were Brigitte Bardot, Françoise Sagan, Alain Delon, Ringo Starr, Elton John, Jack Nicholson, Barbra Streisand, Oprah Winfrey and Prince Albert of Monaco.
        A self-taught jazz pianist and occasional composer, Mr. Barclay wrote the scores for several films, notably Jean-Pierre Melville's ''Bob le Flambeur'' (1955).
        Mr. Barclay grew up in a family of modest means, but became a self-styled dandy known for his impeccable white suits, jaunty boutonniere and David Niven mustache. By 1966, he was making $30 million a year, Newsweek reported. To the end of his life, he kept a Paris apartment fit for a 1970's sybarite, with gold carpeting and matching velvet-covered walls.
        He adored women, so much so that he married nine times. The age of each new wife varied in inverse proportion to Mr. Barclay's own: at his most recent marriage, in 2002, he was 81, his bride in her early 20's. That marriage, as had the previous eight, ended in divorce.
        Mr. Barclay was born on Jan. 26, 1921, in Paris, where his father was a waiter who later owned a cafe opposite the Gare de Lyon. His original name was Édouard Ruault. As a teenager, he was thrilled by the American jazz he heard on the radio, and he taught himself to play the piano. He performed in his family's cafe and later in cafes around Paris.
        After the war, Édouard, who hoped to make a career in jazz, changed his name to the American-sounding Eddie Barclay. He opened a club, Barclay's, often described as the first discothèque, where he led his own jazz band. In the mid-1950's, he started Barclay Records and afterward hired Mr. Jones, then 24, as a producer.
        In 1962, in perhaps his greatest coup, Mr. Barclay lured Brel from Philips Records. During this period, as the French distributor for the Mercury label, he also marketed the work of Dizzy Gillespie and other legends of American jazz.
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Barclay sold his company and retired to his house in St.-Tropez. There, he gave parties that made Truman Capote's famed Black and White Ball look like a church picnic.
        His guests, who were usually instructed to wear white, arrived at Mr. Barclay's private landing pad by helicopter, and could take restorative dips at one of his three private beaches. Dinner was served on the terrace, course after course delivered on electric golf carts. When darkness fell, fireworks illuminated the sea.
        Indoors, there was dancing to music played on Mr. Barclay's two white Steinways or piped in from the house's 98 stereo speakers. The marble floors were inlaid with gold stars, each inscribed with the name of a celebrity who had visited. In the course of an evening, guests might sample a dozen varieties of beer and more than 100 brands of whiskey.
        Festivities rarely ended before 11 a.m. and sometimes continued for days. (Mr. Delon was so reluctant for one party to end that he chartered a plane and flew all the guests to Rio, The Daily Telegraph of London reported.)
        Mr. Barclay is survived by a son, Guillaume, from an early marriage, and by several ex-wives.
        ''I've been in love with every one of my wives,'' Mr. Barclay told The Daily Telegraph last year. ''They knew the rules. I would love with my heart, give them presents, take them on holidays, give them the life they've read about in magazines. But I would never be physically faithful. If I met a woman I liked, if I wanted her, I would inevitably have to make love to her.''
      