
        Alton Tobey, a muralist, portraitist and illustrator whose renderings of famous events and faces hang in museums, libraries, public buildings, corporate offices and private collections, died on Jan. 4 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y., his family said. He was 90 and formerly lived in Larchmont.
        Mr. Tobey was best known for portraits and his floor-to-ceiling murals, which he called ''symphonies of painting.'' Two of his most acclaimed works -- ''Inca Trephination'' and ''Contemporary Cultural Mutilations in Pursuit of Beauty'' -- are part of the collection of the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington. He did a six-piece series on the life of Gen. Douglas MacArthur for the MacArthur Memorial Building in Norfolk, Va.
        Other works by Mr. Tobey hang at the Museum of the City of New York, the Jewish Museum and the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum in New York. His portraits were of presidents, Supreme Court justices, Pope John Paul II, artists and Albert Einstein, whom he happened upon serendipitously and first sketched while he was an art student in the late 1930's.
        His acquaintance with Einstein endured, and Einstein's theories on space and time inspired Mr. Tobey's signature curvilinear style of painting, separate from his representational work. He had dozens of showings of his curvilinears, his fragments paintings and his Conceptual works in museums and galleries in the United States and overseas.
        In addition to the Smithsonian, his art was displayed in places like the Metropolitan Opera and was reproduced in limited and open editions by art-print and collectibles publishers, including Royal Doulton Plates and the Franklin Mint. He furnished the covers and hundreds of illustrations for a dozen volumes of the Golden Books History of the United States, published in the 1960's. He also did illustrations for Life and other national publications.
        Mr. Tobey was an art educator and a historian as well.
        Alton Stanley Tobey was born in Middletown, Conn., and studied at the Yale University School of Fine Arts, where he received a B.F.A. in 1937 and an M.F.A. in 1946. He later taught at Yale and City College in New York as well as privately in Larchmont.
        His wife of 52 years, Rosalyn Caplovitz Tobey, a concert pianist and piano teacher, died in 2002. He is survived by a son, David, also a painter, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Judy Tobey of Chicago; and two grandchildren.
      