
        Chico Carrasquel, the smooth-fielding Chicago White Sox shortstop of the 1950's who became the major leagues' first star player from Venezuela, died Thursday in Caracas. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, the White Sox announced.
        Carrasquel, a native of Caracas, was the first Latin player selected to start in an All-Star Game, after beating out the Yankees' Phil Rizzuto in fan balloting for the 1951 American League team. Carrasquel played in four All-Star Games and teamed with second baseman Nellie Fox, a future Hall of Famer, to form one of baseball's best middle-infield combinations of their era.
        ''Nellie couldn't speak Spanish and I couldn't talk English, but we let each other know how we wanted the ball on double plays,'' Carrasquel recalled in Danny Peary's ''We Played the Game.''
        The former White Sox pitcher Billy Pierce described Carrasquel this way to The Chicago Tribune: ''Oh, he could move. To his left, to his right. Could come in on a ball. Had a great arm.''
        Alfonso Carrasquel was signed by the Dodgers' organization, starred for their Fort Worth farm team in 1949, becoming known as Chico, then was sold to the White Sox because Pee Wee Reese was entrenched as the Brooklyn shortstop.
        Succeeding Luke Appling, the White Sox shortstop and a future Hall of Famer, Carrasquel batted .282 as a rookie in 1950.
        Back home, his prominence became entangled in cold war politics. Walter Donnelly, the United States Ambassador to Venezuela, arranged for members of the Carrasquel family and Venezuelan sportswriters and ballplayers to come to Yankee Stadium for an International Day honoring Carrasquel in July 1950.
        ''I honestly believe it was a severe setback to communist propagandists in Venezuela,'' Donnelly told Collier's magazine. ''Under no circumstances could a similar trip have been made to Russia or any of the satellite countries.''
        Carrasquel was traded to the Cleveland Indians after the 1955 season so the White Sox could call up his countryman Luis Aparicio. Carrasquel and Aparicio, a Hall of Famer, were in the vanguard of superb shortstops from Venezuela, followed by players like Dave Concepcion of the Cincinnati Reds, Ozzie Guillen of the White Sox and Omar Vizquel, the longtime Cleveland Indians shortstop now with the San Francisco Giants.
        ''As the first great Venezuelan shortstop, Chico helped put our country on the baseball map,'' Guillen said in a statement Thursday.
        Aparicio told The Associated Press, ''Chico was my hero and mentor.''
        Carrasquel played 10 seasons in the major leagues and had a career batting average of .258. He was later a Spanish-language broadcaster and community-relations official for the White Sox, and a baseball broadcaster in Venezuela.
        The announcement of his death did not list survivors.
        For Carrasquel, baseball was a year-round passion.
        ''One year, I played 155 games during the regular season with Chicago, plus spring training, then I went back to Caracas and played winter ball, which included the Caribbean World Series,'' he told Rich Westcott in ''Splendor on the Diamond.''
        As Carrasquel put it: ''I played in about 300 games that year because I loved to play baseball.''
      