
        Eddie Albert, a film and television actor known for his evocative portrayals of characters who ranged from the avuncular to the befuddled to the monomaniacal, died on Thursday at his home near Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 99.
        The cause was pneumonia, his son, the actor Edward Albert Jr., told The Associated Press.
        Mr. Albert, who was variously a singer, spy, sex educator, trapeze artist and circus clown, was best known as a character actor who specialized in light comedy. But he also tackled more serious roles, notably that of the sadistic prison warden in Robert Aldrich's film ''The Longest Yard'' (1974). A remake of the movie, starring Adam Sandler and Chris Rock, opened in theaters yesterday.
        To television viewers, Mr. Albert was best known as the cosmopolitan lawyer Oliver Wendell Douglas, who with his jewel-encrusted wife (Eva Gabor) sets up hapless shop as a farmer on ''Green Acres.'' In later years he appeared on ''Falcon Crest,'' ''General Hospital'' and other shows.
        Mr. Albert received two Oscar nominations for best supporting actor, for ''Roman Holiday'' (1953) and ''The Heartbreak Kid'' (1972).
        His other films include ''On Your Toes'' (1939), ''Oklahoma!'' (1955), ''I'll Cry Tomorrow'' (1955), ''The Teahouse of the August Moon'' (1956), ''Attack'' (1956), ''The Sun Also Rises'' (1957), ''The Longest Day'' (1962), ''7 Women'' (1966) and ''Brenda Starr'' (1989).
        Edward Albert Heimberger was born in Rock Island, Ill., on April 22, 1906. (Although some sources give the year as 1908, Mr. Albert's mother, who was unmarried at his birth, later altered the birth certificate for propriety's sake, Edward Albert Jr. told The Associated Press.) Raised in Minneapolis, Mr. Albert attended the University of Minnesota for two years.
        He began his stage career in Minneapolis in the early 1930's as a master of ceremonies in a magic show, and later as a singer. As a singer and comic, he went on to perform on the radio in the Midwest and New York. During this period, Mr. Albert dropped his family name, because, he later said, radio announcers often introduced him as Eddie Hamburger.
        In 1936, he made his Broadway debut in the short-lived comedy ''O Evening Star.'' The same year, Garson Kanin cast him in a starring role in ''Brother Rat,'' a Broadway comedy about cadets at the Virginia Military Institute produced by George Abbott.
        Mr. Albert later appeared on Broadway in ''Room Service'' (1937), ''The Boys From Syracuse'' (1938) and ''Miss Liberty'' (1949). He replaced Robert Preston as Harold Hill in ''The Music Man,'' which opened in 1957. In 1983, Mr. Albert appeared in a revival of ''You Can't Take It With You.''
        Mr. Albert went to Hollywood in 1937, reprising his role as Bing Edwards in the Warner Brothers film of ''Brother Rat.'' But affected by wanderlust, he later took off for Mexico, where he worked in a one-ring touring circus as an aerialist and clown and also gathered intelligence for the United States Army about Nazi activities there.
        Serving with the Navy in the Pacific during World War II, Mr. Albert fought in the Battle of Tarawa, one of the most notorious battles of the war, and was awarded a Bronze Star.
        After the war, he started Eddie Albert Productions, which made 16-millimeter educational films. Among his best-known were ''Human Growth,'' a sex-education film for 11-year-olds, and ''Human Beginnings,'' for 6-year-olds.
        An actor who made the transition to television early, Mr. Albert earned critical praise for his portrayal of Winston Smith in a ''Studio One'' adaptation of George Orwell's ''Nineteen Eighty-Four,'' broadcast in September 1953.
        Reviewing the broadcast, The New Yorker praised Mr. Albert for ''the depth of his performance.''
        One of Mr. Albert's most affecting film portrayals was in ''The Longest Yard,'' released at the height of the Watergate scandal. He played his character, the manipulative, power-mongering Warden Hazen, as a virtual incarnation of Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Albert was married to the actress Margo, née Maria Margarita Guadelupe Teresa Estella Bolado Castilla y O'Donnell, from 1945 until her death in 1985. Besides his son, he is survived by a daughter, Maria Albert Zucht, and two grandchildren, The Associated Press reported.
      