
        Humphrey Carpenter, the English writer, editor, radio broadcaster and musician who wrote intimate biographies of Auden, Pound, J.R.R. Tolkien, Dennis Potter and Spike Milligan, among others, died on Jan. 4 in Oxford, England. He was 58.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, Ion Trewin, editor in chief of the publishing house Weidenfeld & Nicolson, said in an article in The Sunday Times of London. Mr. Carpenter had been suffering from Parkinson's disease.
        A man of boundless and sometimes impish energy, Mr. Carpenter was prolific, his work ranging from conducting radio interviews to producing children's theater to writing trenchant book reviews to playing a variety of musical instruments. A band he founded in 1983, Vile Bodies, made up of publishers and Oxford dons and specializing in music of the 1920's and 30's, performed for years at the Ritz Hotel in London.
        But he was best known for his biographies, particularly for his ''Tolkien: A Biography'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1977). He knew the subject's family, and he followed that book with ''The Inklings: C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, and Their Friends'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1979), a work on Tolkien's pro-Christian, anti-modernism circle at Oxford. Later he edited a volume of Tolkien's letters with Christopher Tolkien, the author's son.
        Mr. Carpenter's ''W.H. Auden: A Biography'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1981), ''A Serious Character: The Life of Ezra Pound'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1988) and ''The Brideshead Generation: Evelyn Waugh and His Friends'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1990) drew admiration for their liveliness and exhaustiveness. Among his other group portraits were ''Geniuses Together: American Writers in Paris in the 1920's'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1987), ''That Was Satire That Was: The Satire Boom of the 1960's'' (Gollancz, 2000) and ''The Angry Young Men: A Literary Comedy of the 1950's'' (Allen Lane, 2002).
        But he also provoked occasional dismay over the intimacy of his revelations. Reviewing ''Benjamin Britten'' (Scribner's, 1992) for The Times Literary Supplement, Robin Holloway described the book as ''a representative example of 'full-undress biography.''' Mr. Carpenter also wrote a series of children's books featuring a character named Mr. Majeika, published by Puffin Books.
        Humphrey William Bouverie Carpenter was born on April 29, 1946, the only child of the Right Rev. Harry Carpenter, who went on to become warden of Keble College, Oxford, and Bishop of Oxford, and Urith Monica Trevelyan. He attended the Dragon School and went on to the Marlborough School and Keble, where he read English.
        After earning a teaching diploma, he joined the BBC in 1968 as a general trainee and worked as a producer at BBC Radio Oxford from 1970 to 1974. There he met Mari Prichard, a fellow broadcaster, whom he married in 1973 and with whom he edited several works, among them ''The Oxford Companion to Children's Literature'' (Oxford University Press, 1984). She survives him, along with their two daughters, Clare and Kate.
      