
        William S. Lieberman, a legendary museum figure who held top curatorial posts at both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, steering major collections to the institutions, died in his sleep at his home in Manhattan on the night of May 31. He was 82.
        The apparent cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, a museum official said.
        A power in the art world for more than 50 years, Mr. Lieberman was at his death the Jacques and Natasha Gelman special consultant for modern art at the Metropolitan. He mounted more than 35 shows there.
        Among the stellar works he acquired, mostly as gifts, was a trove of 81 School of Paris masterpieces, including works by Picasso, Braque, Bonnard, Miró and Matisse, owned by Mr. Lieberman's friends, Jacques Gelman, a film producer, and his wife, Natasha. The collection was bequeathed to the Met in 1998. In 2003, the Met received 100 works from the Pierre and Maria-Gaetana collection, assembled by the art dealer Pierre Matisse, a son of the artist, and his wife. Mr. Lieberman was a close friend of Mr. Matisse.
        ''He was a great presence in the modern museum field, and he had a huge influence on two generations of collectors and scholars,'' Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan, said yesterday.
        Mr. Lieberman had an encyclopedic visual memory and could tell you who owned almost every important work of art in the modernist canon and what it looked like. Mr. de Montebello related how Mr. Lieberman would tell the acquisition committee about works he wanted to acquire: ''He would stand in front of a painting and describe it in the greatest detail without ever turning to look at it.''
        His installations were noted for his apt pairings of works by different artists in which he saw complementary relationships.
        Not one to doubt his own importance, Mr. Lieberman had an authoritative yet low-key manner. His conversation was occasionally sprinkled with pungent Yiddish words. He liked to be called Uncle Bill.
        Anne Strauss, an assistant curator of modern and contemporary art who worked closely with Mr. Lieberman for 25 years, has been named executor of his estate. He leaves no immediate survivors.
        William Slattery Lieberman was born in Paris on Feb. 14, 1923, the son of Max Lieberman, a scholar of late medieval church history, and his wife, the former Bertha Slattery. He was raised in Paris and New York, where he attended Townsend Harris, and went on to graduate with honors from Swarthmore College.
        For pocket money in his teens he trotted tourists around the British Museum and the Louvre while his father did research in them. He was a summer volunteer at the Modern in the early 1940's, and in 1943 he joined its department of exhibitions and publications. He took time off for graduate school at Harvard, enrolling in the famous museum course taught by Paul J. Sachs. On his return to New York in 1945, he became an assistant to Alfred H. Barr Jr., the Modern's founding director.
        In 1949 he was named director of the museum's new department of prints. He expanded the department to include drawings, and in 1967 he was appointed a curator in the department of painting and sculpture. When the museum's curatorial departments were reorganized in 1971, he became the founding director of the department of drawings.
        At the Modern he organized more than 40 exhibitions, bowing out in 1979 with ''Art of the Twenties,'' a comprehensive survey of painting, sculpture, photography, drawing, prints, posters, architecture and design that drew wide acclaim.
        In 1979 he was summoned by the Met to become chairman of its department of 20th-century art after the death of Thomas B. Hess, who had held the job for less than six months. Mr. Lieberman remained chairman of the department, renamed the department of modern art in 1999, until June of last year, when the department was given a new designation, the department of 19th-century, modern and contemporary art.
        Reporting directly to Mr. de Montebello, Mr. Lieberman was active at the museum until his death.
        In 1968 he brought off one of his great collecting coups for the Modern. Working away at the museum on a weekend, as usual, he answered a call from a trustee announcing that the remains of Gertrude Stein's art collection, 38 works by Picasso and 9 by Juan Gris, could be bought for $6 million. Alice B. Toklas, Stein's companion, was an old friend of Mr. Lieberman's parents.
        Acting fast, he formed a syndicate of four trustees and an outside collector to buy the estate, insisting first on assurances that they would give the Modern whatever it needed to fill gaps in its collection. The sale was negotiated within 48 hours, edging out a number of other offers.
      