
        Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, the scholarly Mexican diplomat and politician whose independent struggle for democracy helped end 71 years of single-party rule but whose outspokenness infuriated leaders on both sides of the border, was killed Sunday in a traffic accident while driving back from his country home in Tepoztlán, south of Mexico City. He was 55.
        The Mexican federal police said Mr. Aguilar Zinser was returning to Mexico City on Sunday afternoon when he lost control of his Jeep Liberty and struck a bus near the Tepoztlán toll booth. A car behind Mr. Aguilar Zinser's vehicle was also involved in the crash, which injured four people, including Cecilia de la Macorra, his assistant.
        A forceful writer and uninhibited critic in Mexico for decades, Mr. Aguilar Zinser became best known in the United States when, as Mexico's representative to the United Nations, he strongly opposed the Bush administration's effort to gain approval for military force against Iraq in 2003.
        Mr. Aguilar Zinser's position caused trouble for President Vicente Fox and put Mexico, then a non-permanent member of the Security Council, in the uncomfortable position of choosing between raising the ire of the Bush administration and offending the majority of Mexicans, who opposed a war in Iraq.
        A final vote on the issue was avoided when the United States decided to go ahead with plans for an attack without the passage of a second resolution by the United Nations.
        But Mr. Aguilar Zinser had already strained his relations with Mr. Fox and the Foreign Ministry. The breaking point came when Mr. Aguilar Zinser said in a speech in late 2003 that the United States wanted a ''relationship of convenience and subordination'' with Mexico, and saw Mexico not as a partner but as ''a backyard.''
        After Secretary of State Colin L. Powell strongly objected to the comments, Mexico's Foreign Ministry removed Mr. Aguilar Zinser from office.
        In his letter of resignation, he conceded that while he might have been ''a diplomat who is not very diplomatic,'' he was also ''an independent, principled man without prejudice.''
        At a memorial service yesterday in Mr. Aguilar Zinser's home in the Coyoacán neighborhood of Mexico City, Mr. Fox called him ''a man who always contributed much to government and policy with his clear vision.''
        Kofi Annan, secretary general of the United Nations, said Mr. Aguilar Zinser ''served his country with dedication, wit and independence of spirit at a crucial time for the multilateral system.''
        Adolfo Aguilar Zinser was born in Mexico City Dec. 2, 1949, the son of Carmen Zinser and Adolfo Aguilar y Quevedo, and the grandson of Miguel Angel de Quevedo, who was considered Mexico's first environmentalist.
        He studied law and international relations at the Colegio de México and completed a master's degree in international and public affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
        In the mid-1970's, he was selected by President Luis Echeverría to lead the Center for Third World Economic and Social Studies, a showcase for Mr. Echeverría's campaign to distance Mexico from the influence of the United States.
        Disillusioned by the politics of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, Mr. Aguilar Zinser in 1994 aligned himself with the leftist presidential candidate, Cuauhtémoc Cárdenas of the Democratic Revolutionary Party. After Mr. Cárdenas's defeat, Mr. Aguilar Zinser took a seat in the lower house of Congress where, as an independent, he headed a legislative investigation into the questionable operations and financial dealings of a national commodities program headed by Raúl Salinas de Gortari, brother of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari.
        A stylish dresser, Mr. Aguilar Zinser spoke English fluently and wrote powerfully in both Spanish and English, contributing weekly opinion columns to the newspaper Reforma even while he held office.
        In 1997, he represented the Green Party in the Mexican Senate, and in 2000 he became an instrumental part of the campaign team that helped elect Mr. Fox, an opposition candidate, to the presidency. Mr. Fox then made Mr. Aguilar Zinser his first national security adviser. In that post, he tried to provide limited public access to information and to make protecting Mexico's environment a matter of national security, but after about a year his post was abolished.
        His appointment as Mexico's permanent representative to the United Nations in January 2002 coincided with Mexico's election to the National Security Council. Most recently, he was the host of a weekly public affairs television program and continued to write his newspaper column.
        Mr. Aguilar Zinser is survived by his wife, Martha Ketchum, and two sons, Adolfo Patricio and Nicolás.
      