
        Hy Peskin, a master action photographer who took some of the most arresting sports images of the 1940's, 50's and 60's before starting a second career as a philanthropist and entrepreneur under the name Brian Blaine Reynolds, died in Israel last Thursday. He was 89.
        His death was announced by Sports Illustrated, which said he was the first staff photographer the magazine hired.
        ''The number of famous pictures that he made here is astonishing,'' said Steve Fine, the director of photography at Sports Illustrated.
        Under the name Hy Peskin, he was best known for tearing himself away from the news media pool to find an unusual vantage point. Some of his best photographs were taken during Brooklyn Dodgers games at Ebbets Field, where he would sometimes climb the roof or crouch in the aisles while his competitors were huddled together in another section.
        ''There was an era when photographers worked from the press box, and Hy was the first to really move down to the field, to go down to ground level,'' said Neil Leifer, a leading sports photographer. ''He was always looking for angles that others didn't use.''
        In 1950, he found an angle that led to one of golf's most famous photographs. On the 18th hole of the United States Open in Merion, Pa., Mr. Peskin staked out a spot behind Ben Hogan as he was pulling out a 1-iron. Moments later, he snatched an image of Mr. Hogan in full swing, looking out along a gorgeous course lined with fans.
        A Brooklyn native with a gruff voice, Mr. Peskin started his career as a sportswriter during the Depression but decided photography would be more lucrative. His photographs, usually taken with a Rolleiflex or a Speed Graphic, were on the covers of more than 40 issues of Sports Illustrated; he also had noted freelance assignments from magazines like Time, Life and Look.
        Mr. Peskin was renowned for his speed and timing with the camera at boxing matches. In 1955, he captured a silhouetted Carmen Basilio leaping into the arms of his cornerman after leveling Tony DeMarco at the smoke-filled Boston Garden. Another photograph of Mr. Basilio, his face swollen, eyes puffy, became Sylvester Stallone's inspiration for a similar scene in ''Rocky,'' said Mr. Leifer, who was a consultant on the movie.
        Mr. Peskin's entrepreneurial side eventually pulled him away from photography. In 1964, he legally changed his name to one combining some of his children's names and founded an inspirational organization called the Academy of Achievement, which maintains a roster of 20th-century achievers and holds an annual event in which such prominent people gather for discussions with accomplished graduate students. At first paid for by his photography earnings, it later sought corporate sponsorship and support from ticket sales. After being the subject of considerable litigation, the enterprise has been run by one of Mr. Peskin's sons since 1985.
        Among his other ventures as Brian Blaine Reynolds was the World Series of Sports Fishing, which he helped start with Ted Williams in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Peskin lived in California and Plano, Tex. His first wife, Blanche, died in 1978.
        He is survived by his second wife, Adriana Reynolds of Plano, Tex., and Herzliya, Israel; two sons from that marriage, Brian Jeremy Reynolds and Preston Blaine Reynolds, both of Herzliya and Plano; three sons from his first marriage, Evan Reynolds of McKinney, Tex., Ron Reynolds of San Marcos, Calif., and Wayne Reynolds of McLean, Va.; and a granddaughter.
      