
        Sylvan Cole, an internationally recognized art dealer who helped foster the explosion of printmaking and print collecting in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a Fire Island home on Long Island.
        The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Nancy Cole Kelly, said.
        Mr. Cole, whom The New York Times once called ''the doyen of dealers in American prints,'' specialized in American prints and drawings of the 19th and 20th centuries. At his death, he was the director of the Sylvan Cole Gallery on West 57th Street in Manhattan.
        Among the artists Mr. Cole represented over the years were Milton Avery, Thomas Hart Benton, Stuart Davis, Childe Hassam, Edward Hopper, Raphael Soyer, James McNeill Whistler and Grant Wood.
        When Mr. Cole entered the profession just after World War II, prints were widely disdained as the art world's poor stepchildren. Generally small and black-and-white, they were most notable for being amazingly inexpensive. But if prints lacked the cachet of painting, they made up for it in their potential to reach a much wider range of collectors, a possibility that artists, and dealers like Mr. Cole, were just starting to explore.
        ''The business transformed during his tenure to this mass-appeal business of major artists producing large-scale colorful prints in all kinds of mediums,'' Richard Solomon, the director of Pace Prints in New York, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
        Early on Mr. Cole sold many prints -- including those by major artists like Benton, Wood and John Steuart Curry -- by mail, starting at $5. By the 1960's he was selling the work of a young upstart named David Hockney for about $40.
        Fine-art prints, which include lithographs, etchings, screen prints, woodcuts and now digital imagery, can be produced relatively inexpensively in large numbers, making it possible for ordinary people to afford the work of a significant artist. Even today, prints by up-and-coming American artists can sell for as little as a few hundred dollars, Mr. Solomon said.
        A vigorous champion of printmaking as a democratic medium, Mr. Cole encouraged museums and private collectors around the world to build their collections. He developed long-term relationships with artists, often publishing their new prints himself.
        For Mr. Cole, prints made for the Works Progress Administration, beginning in the late 1930's, had a particular resonance.
        ''I started the 30's at the age of 12,'' Mr. Cole said in a 1983 interview with The Times. ''When the decade was over, I had graduated from high school, graduated from college and was one year away from serving in World War II. The 30's had a tremendous impact on my life.''
        Sylvan Cole Jr. was born in Manhattan on Jan. 10, 1918. His father, Sylvan Sr., was a founder and chairman of National Shirt Shops, a men's apparel chain. Sylvan Jr. earned a bachelor's degree in English literature, with a minor in art history, from Cornell in 1939. He spent the next two years as an executive trainee with Sears, Roebuck & Co. while doing graduate work in art history at Rutgers. During World War II Mr. Cole was an officer in the United States Army.
        In 1946 he joined the Associated American Artists Gallery in New York, whose roster included Robert Motherwell and Alexander Calder. He was the gallery's director and president from 1958 to 1983, then established his own gallery in 1984. In 1987 Mr. Cole helped found the International Fine Print Dealers Association; he was its president from 1994 to 1997.
        Mr. Cole's first marriage, to the former Vivian Vanderpool, ended in divorce. His second marriage, which lasted more than 30 years, ended with the death of his wife, Lilyan, in 1988.
        Mr. Cole is survived by his third wife, Mary Myers Cole, whom he married in 1998; a brother, Charles, of Fort Worth; three children from his first marriage: Ms. Kelly, of Rochester; Robert, of New Smyrna Beach, Fla.; and James, of Fleury-en-Bière, France; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Cole wrote several books and catalogues raisonnés, including ''Will Barnet: Etchings, Lithographs, Woodcuts, Serigraphs, 1932-1972'' (Associated American Artists, 1972); ''Grant Wood: The Lithographs'' (Associated American Artists, 1984, edited by Susan Teller); and ''Raphael Soyer: 50 Years of Printmaking'' (Da Capo, 1978).
      