
        Arthur Walworth, a writer on American diplomatic history and an author of a Pulitzer-Prize winning life of Woodrow Wilson, died on Jan. 10 in Needham, Mass. A native and longtime resident of Newton, Mass., he was 101.
        His death was announced by Charles E. Holly, a partner in the Boston law firm Weston, Patrick, Willard & Redding.
        Mr. Walworth began his study of Wilson at the advice of Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr. of Harvard. Searching for new sources, he spent 10 years scouring private papers, the official interpreter's diary, the confidential stenographer's personal notes and the like. He also gained access to previously unavailable materials at Yale and elsewhere, including the papers and unopened diary of Col. E.M. House, Wilson's confidant.
        The result was the two-part biography ''Woodrow Wilson, Volume I: American Prophet'' and ''Woodrow Wilson, Volume II: World Prophet.'' Published first in 1958 by Longmans, Green, it went through later editions from Houghton (1965), Norton (1977) and remains in paperback from Textbook Publishers (2003). His work won the Pulitzer for biography in 1959.
        There were reservations about the book from critics who thought it had overstressed the prophetic aspects of Wilson's character and slighted his political nature as an educator, president of Princeton, governor of New Jersey and finally president.
        Mr. Walworth met such criticism with ''Wilson and His Peacemakers: American Diplomacy at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919'' (Norton, 1986). It depicts Wilson as an imperfect visionary who worked hard for a new international peacekeeping mechanism that would include the United States.
        Arthur Clarence Walworth graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in 1921 and from Yale, in English, in 1925. He taught English and modern European history in China, traveled in Japan and Europe, and went to work in the educational department of Houghton Mifflin in 1927.
        His other books include ''Black Ships Off Japan: The Story of Commodore Perry's Expedition'' (Knopf, 1946) and ''America's Moment: American Diplomacy at the End of World War I'' (Norton, 1977).
        Mr. Walworth is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Walworth Ross of Essex, Conn.
      