
        Dr. Victor Wouk, an electrical engineer and entrepreneur who built one of the first hybrid cars, operating on both gasoline and electricity, died at his home in Manhattan on May 19. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Jordan.
        Dr. Wouk's hybrid, a modified 1972 Buick Skylark, was built primarily in response to the growing concern over air pollution that led to the passage of the Clean Air Act of 1970, a law mandating a rapid 95 percent reduction in auto emissions.
        After the bill's passage, the federal Environmental Protection Agency started the Clean Car Incentive Program to encourage innovative designs from the auto industry and inventors. It accepted Dr. Wouk's proposal to create a hybrid in 1971, promising to consider a nationwide test of vehicles based on his design if satisfied with the prototype.
        Dr. Wouk's car, which he built with Dr. Charles L. Rosen, had a Mazda rotary engine half the size and power of the Skylark's standard V-8 and an electric motor used for starting and for extra power. The electric motor's batteries were recharged during driving by the car's braking action but needed to be connected to an external source to regain their full charge.
        In private tests, the Skylark hybrid met the strictest emission standards, got 30 miles to a gallon of gas and had a top speed of 85 miles an hour.
        The E.P.A. awarded $33,000 to Dr. Wouk and Dr. Rosen in 1974 and began its own tests of the prototype. However, the agency declined to produce more of the cars for nationwide tests, and Dr. Wouk's experiments ended. He always said the agency had never adequately explained its decision.
        Victor Wouk was born in the Bronx, N.Y., in 1919. A graduate of Columbia University, he received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 1942. After working for Westinghouse in World War II, he founded the Beta Electric Corporation, building it into a leading source of high-voltage electrical supplies before selling the company in 1956.
        His interest in alternative power sources for automobiles began in 1962, when a founder of Motorola asked him for advice on an electric car he had developed. Dr. Wouk found that car impractical, as its batteries were not big enough to allow it to travel very far or very fast, but he did see the potential of batteries as a supplemental power source, and began working on ideas for a hybrid for American Motors.
        Dr. Wouk continued his advocacy of hybrid technology after the E.P.A.'s rejection of his Skylark design. He also did research into the use of semiconductors in electric vehicles.
        The first hybrid to be offered to consumers, the Toyota Prius, appeared in 1997. It is based on principles similar to Dr. Wouk's, and he leased one when it became available in the United States as a 2001 model.
        An active philanthropist, he was a board member of the 92nd Street Y, a chairman of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and a supporter of the Yeshiva University in New York. An annual lecture series at Caltech was named for him.
        Besides his son Jordan, who lives in Teaneck, N.J., he is survived by his wife, Joy; another son, Jonathan, of Ottawa; a grandson; and a brother, the novelist Herman Wouk.
      