
        H. Bentley Glass, a biologist who in the 1950's and 60's led a ubiquitous career as writer, scientific policy maker and theorizer, with provocative and often prescient predictions about still-burning issues like genetics and nuclear war, died on Sunday in Boulder, Colo.
        His daughter, Lois Edgar, said his death one day before he would have been 99 was in line with his prediction in 1967 that people in 2000 would live to nearly 100.
        Dr. Glass refused to stay within the bounds of academia and found time while writing and editing several books and more than 400 scientific articles to write a science column in The Baltimore Evening Sun. He spoke out widely on issues like the ethics of test-tube babies, the dangers of radioactivity and the genetic nature of race.
        He theorized about why humans are not very hairy, and predicted in 1968 that sexual activity and reproduction would eventually become totally severed. In 1970, he suggested that not only would it become possible to prevent genetic defects, it would also become mandatory to do so.
        ''No parents will in that future time have the right to burden society with a malformed or mentally incompetent child,'' Dr. Glass said in a remark that is still regularly deplored by opponents of abortion.
        In the same speech, made to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, of which he was then president, he startled scientists by suggesting that their usefulness was ending, or, at least, lessening. He said that within a generation or two, scientific progress was likely to halt.
        ''We are like the explorers of a great continent,'' he said, ''who have penetrated its margins in most points of the compass and have mapped the major mountain chains and rivers. There are still innumerable details to fill in, but the endless horizons no longer exist.''
        Dr. Glass was also president of the American Society of Human Genetics, the American Institute of Biological Sciences and the American Society of Naturalists. He was chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission's advisory committee for biology and medicine, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and the Natural Research Council's space science board.
        In 1960, Dr. Glass supervised a rewriting of many of the nation's biology textbooks to take account of revolutionary changes in the life sciences.
        Going beyond science, in the mid-1950's he was chairman of a committee of the American Association of University Professors that censured several universities on the ground that they had violated academic freedom by firing professors for Communist associations that the group contended were unproven.
        In 1958, as the organization's president, he fought requirements that professors take loyalty oaths, arguing that ''the disloyal swear anyway.'' In 1960, he refused to sign a loyalty oath to become part of Maryland's Radiation Control Advisory Board, and he did not get the job.
        Dr. Glass was editor of Quarterly Review of Biology and of both Science and Scientific Monthly. He was president of Biological Abstracts, an influential journal.
        As the national president of Phi Beta Kappa from 1967 to 1970, he searched for ways to make the organization less elitist.
        Dr. Glass carved out a reputation as one of the nation's top geneticists as a professor at Johns Hopkins University from 1947 until 1965, when he was lured away by the State University of New York at Stony Brook; he stayed there until 1976. At Stony Brook, he also oversaw the university's total academic program.
        Hiram Bentley Glass was born to Baptist missionaries in China on Jan. 17, 1906. He said in an interview with Saturday Review in 1957 that his parents' example made him ''an old-fashioned liberal.'' Despite his Baptist upbringing, he developed an early and deep interest in evolution as a result of a fascination with insects.
        In 1923, he left China to attend Decatur Baptist College in Texas, transferring two years later to Baylor University, where he earned his bachelor's degree. From 1926 to 1928, he taught biology and physics at Timpson High School in Timpson, Tex.
        He was also assigned the duty of coaching the football team, The New York Times reported in 1967. He knew nothing about the game, but quickly learned and the next fall Timpson High was undefeated.
        Dr. Glass then returned to Baylor to earn a master's degree and went to the University of Texas for his doctorate. He did postdoctoral work at the University of Oslo in Norway and at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Berlin.
        But at that time, Albert Einstein and other illustrious scholars were fleeing Germany because of Hitler's racial policies, and Dr. Glass hastened to the University of Missouri to finish his postdoctoral work. In his later defense of academic freedom, he sometimes cited his German experience.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Glass became a leading scientific spokesman on the effects of radiation. He and a group of scientists in 1957 said that fallout from the testing of nuclear bombs would harm tens of thousands of children, perhaps millions, in future generations.
        In 1962, he described the possible effects of a nuclear war to the Congress of Scientists on Survival. He suggested fallout shelters for animals as well as humans. In particular, he said, birds were needed to eat the insects that he predicted would proliferate after a nuclear war.
        ''Without birds to feed on them, the insects would multiply catastrophically,'' he said. ''The insects, not man or other proud species, are really the only ones fitted for survival in the nuclear age.''
        In what became a legendary comment, he then singled out a particular survivor. ''The cockroach, a venerable and hardy species,'' Dr. Glass said, ''will take over the habitats of the foolish humans, and compete only with other insects or bacteria.''
        Dr. Glass's most influential scientific accomplishment was his work, begun at Johns Hopkins, on what he called genetic drift. He suggested ways of experimentally estimating the amount of exchange between the gene pools of neighboring populations. One result was his calculation that people defined as black had a gene pool 30 percent derived from white ancestors.
        ''The races are in fact disappearing, although the process will require thousands of years at present rates,'' Dr. Glass said in the 1967 interview with The Times.
        Dr. Glass's wife of 59 years, the former Suzanne G. Smith, died in 1993. He is survived by his daughter, who lives in Boulder, five grandsons and two great-grandsons.
      