
        Álvaro Cunhal, the longtime leader of Portugal's Communists and a faithful supporter of hard-line Stalinist views even as other Western European Communist parties shed their revolutionary slogans in the past two decades, died Monday, the Portuguese Communist Party announced. He was 91.
        The party did not disclose the cause of his death or where it occurred.
        Mr. Cunhal, the son of a lawyer, was born in Coimbra, Portugal's university city, in 1913, and moved with his middle-class family to Lisbon in 1923.
        He declared himself ''an adopted son of the proletariat'' and joined the Communist Party and the League of Friends of the Soviet Union when he was 17. At 22, he secured a place on the party's central committee and a year later went to Moscow as a delegate to an international Communist youth congress.
        His advocacy frequently cost him his freedom, and he spent nearly 35 years living underground or in jail. He finished his law exams while in prison in 1940, and had to be taken from jail so he could defend his dissertation, calling for the legalization of abortion, before a jury of professors.
        But in 1974 he returned home to take charge of the Communist Party after the fall of the dictatorship of António de Oliveira Salazar, which he had spent much of his life resisting and which had labeled him public enemy No.1.
        He had fled Portugal in 1960 after he and other Communist leaders staged a storied escape from a notorious fortress prison, sliding down the walls on a rope made of bedsheets tied together. He exiled himself to Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union and was living in Moscow when the bloodless military uprising known as the Revolution of Carnations toppled Marcelo Caetano, Mr. Salazar's successor.
        Mr. Cunhal was always secretive about his private life, his exile homes and hiding places in Portugal, and his years in prison. In 1961 his daughter, Ana Maria, from a relationship he had with a party worker, was born in Moscow. His current partner, Fernanda Barroso, and his daughter survive him.
        His party, which he led as secretary general until retiring in 1992, did well in elections, sometimes finishing as high as third, and its success resulted in Mr. Cunhal's holding ministerial positions in four post-revolution, military-led governments.
        His party had the support of the Soviet Union, and tough internal discipline led to the frequent expulsion of party-line dissidents. Mr. Cunhal argued that Portugal should leave NATO and ally itself instead with Moscow.
        He was a passionate orator and imposing figure, with black bushy eyebrows and a steady gaze that gave his utterances a ring of fiery conviction. The Socialist leader Mario Soares, who was to overtake Mr. Cunhal in Portugal's leftist politics and become prime minister and then, for two terms, president, credited his rival with having ''a luminous, penetrating glance that bespoke great inner strength.''
        In contrast to his tough public exterior, Mr. Cunhal built a reputation for artistic accomplishment, translating Shakespeare's ''King Lear'' while in the prison in the 1950's, publishing pencil drawings done in jail, and revealing in 1995 that he was the author of four best-selling novels under the pseudonym Manuel Tiago and the creator of engravings and sculptures under the name António Vale. One of his novels was made into a television miniseries broadcast this year, depicting the Communists' efforts to organize rural workers in the 1940's, and a 1996 essay on aesthetics drew wide comment.
        Despite being accepted as a participant in Portugal's democratic politics, he never renounced his admiration for Stalin or his unyielding ideology.
        In a message to the Portuguese Communist Party at its 2000 congress, which he was too ill to attend, he declared to the dismay of its reform-minded youthful members: ''Our Communist convictions rest on objective reality that some would like to deny or forget -- the division of society in classes and the class struggle. These are not just ideas. They are reality.''
        He sent a final, written message to his party at its congress last year. It concluded, ''Long live Marxism-Leninism!''
        Correction:  June 15, 2005, Wednesday  A picture caption yesterday with the obituary of Alvaro Cunhal, longtime leader of the Portuguese Communist Party, referred incorrectly to his political stance. As the article said, he was an ardent supporter of the hard-liners; he did not defy them.
      