
        Ross Stretton, an Australian dancer whose elegant classical style made him highly visible in leading roles with American Ballet Theater and the Joffrey Ballet in the 1980's before he became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and then, briefly, the Royal Ballet in London, died in Melbourne on Wednesday. He was 53 and lived in Melbourne.
        The cause was melanoma, the Australian Ballet said in a statement.
        Unusually for a late starter in ballet, Mr. Stretton had a noble style that made him a natural prince in the 19th-century classics and an outstanding interpreter of pure-dance works by George Balanchine and Frederick Ashton.
        Acting was not his forte. With pale good looks that recalled Ashley Wilkes in the film ''Gone With the Wind,'' Mr. Stretton often appeared impassive.
        Yet offstage, as he proved when he led the Australian Ballet and the Royal Ballet, Mr. Stretton could be headstrong with firm ideas about repertory, dancers and policy.
        His tenure as director in both companies proved tumultuous. The fact that Mr. Stretton was a foreigner at the Royal Ballet was a strike against him. He took up his post in the summer of 2001 and left 13 months later, having alienated many within the company and its governing board with his emphasis on new works and his management style. One of those who moved against him was Deborah MacMillan, widow of the choreographer and former artistic director Kenneth MacMillan.
        In his focus on creativity and new choreographers to balance the existing repertory, Mr. Stretton was essentially implementing the policies he had observed at Ballet Theater. He had attempted to do the same as director of the Australian Ballet from 1997 to 2001. There again, he had run into opposition from some dancers and exponents of the status quo.
        Yet initial reactions after his death in Australia were full of praise for his ''modernizing'' of the company.
        The Australian Ballet, in fact, was a company reborn when it appeared at New York's City Center under Mr. Stretton's leadership in 1999. The company's traditional classical style was now more impressive, streamlined and clean in technical detail.
        Ross Stretton was born in Canberra on June 6, 1952, and began as a national champion tap dancer before switching to ballet at 17. He trained with Janet Karin and Bryan Lawrence and entered the Australian Ballet School in 1970, joining the Australian Ballet two years later. He became a principal in 1976.
        In 1979, he came to the United States, where he danced with the Joffrey Ballet for two years before joining Ballet Theater. He retired from performing in 1990 to become assistant to Jane Hermann and Oliver Smith, Ballet Theater's directors. He was appointed assistant director in 1993. Most of Mr. Stretton's performing career at Ballet Theater took place when Mikhail Baryshnikov was the troupe's artistic director.
        Under Robert Joffrey's direction in the Joffrey Ballet, Mr. Stretton was introduced to Jiri Kylian's work; was a romantic hero in Joffrey's ''Postcards''; and excelled in Ashton's ''Monotones II.''
        At Ballet Theater, he was immediately cast as the danseur noble he was, appearing as Prince Siegfried in ''Swan Lake'' and in ''Raymonda.'' But he also appeared in 1982 in Merce Cunningham's ''Duets'' and later, in MacMillan's ''Requiem'' and Twyla Tharp's ''Bach Partita.''
        Mr. Stretton hit his stride in 1983 with his exceptional elegance in Balanchine's ''Symphonie Concertante.'' That year, in ''Giselle,'' he partnered Cynthia Gregory, with whom he brilliantly danced Balanchine's ''Theme and Variations.'' Among Mr. Stretton's memorable performances was James in ''La Sylphide.''
        He is survived by his former wife, Valmai Roberts, and three children, Luke, Adam and Kyra.
      