
        Joe Belden, who in 1940 founded the Texas Poll, the first statewide opinion survey and a model for others that followed, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 90.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Belden's scrupulous methodology helped opinion surveys evolve from educated guessing into scientific undertakings. He got into the polling field in the 1930's when, as a student with a keen interest in scientific sampling, he corresponded with George Gallup and other early practitioners. Drawing on their advice and his own meticulous demographics, he started the Texas Poll to gauge public opinion about social issues of the day as well as politics and elections.
        Mr. Belden sold the findings to newspapers across the state and made his poll a staple for their readers. The Texas Poll also served as a model for other regional and state surveys and as a springboard for his venture in market research conducted for the newspapers themselves.
        He was born José Belden to Mexican parents in Eagle Pass, a Texas border town, on March 13, 1915, but later was known by the American version of his name, Joe. He spent his early childhood in Mexico, not learning English until he was 9. After graduating from high school in Eagle Pass, he enrolled at the University of Texas in Austin with $100 borrowed from his English teacher.
        He studied the scientific sampling of public opinion and became an editor on the school newspaper, The Daily Texan, graduating in 1938. He founded Belden Associates in Austin in 1941, then served as a Navy officer in Washington and Panama in World War II before resuming his polling enterprise.
        He set up another company in Mexico in 1947, using opinion surveys to devise a radio and television rating system, Mexico's first. It enabled advertisers to learn how many people they were reaching with their commercials.
        Back in Texas the next year, he steered Belden Associates into the uncharted waters of market research specifically geared to newspapers, designing surveys intended to help the papers get a better sense of what their readers expected from them.
        At first, Mr. Belden had to convince dubious editors and publishers of his surveys' worth. But the surveys caught on, and over time resulted in the addition of newspaper features like news summaries, enhanced graphics and special weekend sections.
        He sold his interest in Belden Associates and retired in 1980. Among his many honors was the lifetime achievement award of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, which he received in 1991.
        Mr. Belden is survived by his wife of 64 years, Eugenia Nash Belden; two sons, Joseph, of Washington, and Tom, of Merchantville, N.J.; a daughter, Nancy Belden, also of Washington, a partner in the polling firm Belden Russonello & Stewart and a past president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research; and three grandchildren.
      