
        Morris Cohen, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who helped to transform the field of metallurgy into the modern discipline of materials science and engineering, died on May 27 at his home in Swampscott, Mass. He was 93.
        He had been suffering from heart problems and died after a short illness, said his son, Joel.
        Dr. Cohen, whose research into the structure of iron and steel contributed to the development of high-strength steels, helped to establish the principles underlying the development of all synthetic materials, including metals, plastics, ceramics, polymers, composites and even biomaterials, synthetic materials used to make medical implants. He outlined the intellectual foundation of materials science and charted its direction in ''Materials and Man's Needs,'' an influential report published by the National Academy of Sciences in 1974.
        ''He understood that all materials have fundamental similarities,'' said Dr. Edwin L. Thomas, who holds a chair at M.I.T. named for Dr. Cohen. ''If he hadn't advocated a catholic approach to studying them, scientists might not be pushing into nanotechnology and the interface of synthetic and living materials that can be seen in the new prosthetics.''
        Dr. Cohen became interested in metals while working for his father's company, Acme Type Metal of Everett, Mass., which processed scrap and sold it to local newspapers for use on their printing presses. Enrolling at M.I.T., he received an S.B. in metallurgy in 1933 and his Sc.D. in 1936. He joined the faculty the next year.
        During World War II, he worked on the metallurgical problems assigned to M.I.T. as part of the Manhattan Project to develop an atomic bomb. He and his colleagues developed fuel rods needed for Enrico Fermi's reactor at the University of Chicago, producing solid castings out of enriched uranium powder.
        In 1977, President Jimmy Carter presented Dr. Cohen with the nation's highest scientific honor, the National Medal of Science, for his research on the hardening of steel.
        Ten years later, he received the prestigious Kyoto Prize for Advanced Technology, Japan's highest award for science, which recognizes contributions in engineering and other areas not covered by Nobel prizes. Dr. Cohen was the first materials scientist to receive the award. He also received M.I.T.'s highest faculty honor, an Institute professorship.
        Morris Cohen was born in 1911 in Chelsea, Mass. He is survived by his son, Joel, of San Rafael, Calif.; two sisters, Louise Plansky of Los Angeles and Charlotte Freed of Chestnut Hill, Mass.; three grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren. His wife, Ruth, and his daughter, Barbara Cohen Nordwind, died before him.
        Dr. Thomas said that when Dr. Cohen's secretary told him he had been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, he replied that she must be mistaken; he was a metallurgist, he said, and not really a scientist, explaining that it must have been the National Academy of Engineering that had called.
        A telegram proved that his secretary was correct. A few years later, Dr. Cohen was also elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
      