
        J.J. Pickle, a protégé of Lyndon B. Johnson who served in the House of Representatives for 31 years and was a zealous protector of Social Security, died on Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 91.
        The causes were prostate cancer and lymphoma, his family said.
        Mr. Pickle became involved in politics at the University of Texas, where he was president of the student body.
        His ties to Johnson dated to the 1940's. ''I was one of the early, youngest L.B.J. boys,'' Mr. Pickle said soon after retiring from Congress in 1995.
        Mr. Pickle worked on Johnson's House and Senate campaigns and served on his staff in Austin and Washington before he won Johnson's old House seat in a special election in December 1963. Mr. Pickle campaigned so vigorously that he lost 25 pounds. He took office a month after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
        James Jarrell Pickle, known as Jake, was born in Roscoe in West Texas on Oct. 11, 1913, and grew up in Big Spring during the Depression. His parents were schoolteachers, and his father also ran a grocery store. One of Mr. Pickle's fraternity brothers at the university, John B. Connally, went on to become governor of Texas.
        After graduating in 1938, Mr. Pickle became an area director of the National Youth Administration, a New Deal agency that provided jobs and education for young people.
        In 1942, Mr. Pickle married Ella Nora Critz and set off for three and a half years of Navy service in the South Pacific. After the war, Mr. Pickle returned to Austin and joined several other veterans in founding a radio station, KVET.
        In the 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Pickle ran a public relations and advertising firm and participated in the campaigns of many state and national politicians.
        Unlike most Southern Democrats in Congress, Mr. Pickle voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1964. His daughter, Peggy Pickle, said in an interview on Sunday that he ''often referred to that vote as the one of which he was most proud.'' Mr. Pickle's father was an advocate for civil rights, Ms. Pickle said, and in any event, ''it would have been very hard for the new congressman to say no to Lyndon Johnson.''
        Ms. Pickle described her father as ''fiscally conservative and socially liberal.''
        When Richard M. Nixon was president, Mr. Pickle pressed for an aggressive investigation of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, to ascertain whether the company had received favorable treatment from the government in return for its offer to help finance the Republican convention in 1972.
        In 1981, as chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee on Social Security, Mr. Pickle had a major role in writing legislation to strengthen the program, at a time when it faced severe financial problems. Ronald Reagan, who was then president, had proposed benefit cuts, and many Democrats attacked the proposals.
        But Mr. Pickle believed that Social Security was too sensitive to be handled on a partisan basis. ''We should hold our fire,'' he said in an interview in 1981. ''We can't inflame this subject. If we inflame it too much, nothing will get done, and if nothing gets done, the American people will have the right to throw us all out.''
        In 1983, Congress passed a bill to rescue Social Security from possible insolvency. The bill included a proposal by Mr. Pickle that gradually increased the eligibility age for full retirement benefits, to 67 from 65, over several decades.
        A year later Mr. Pickle led efforts to preserve Social Security benefits for people with disabilities. Tens of thousands of people had lost disability benefits under reviews conducted by the Reagan administration. Mr. Pickle was the chief sponsor of a bill that liberalized eligibility standards, making it harder for the government to remove people from the rolls.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Pickle remained true to his rural populist roots. In later years, he was a strong advocate for research and development and for tax incentives to help high-technology companies like those that sprang up in the Austin area.
        As chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee on oversight, Mr. Pickle argued for stricter regulation of government-sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae. He investigated tax breaks for religious broadcasters, and he examined tax avoidance by American subsidiaries of foreign corporations.
        He also expressed alarm about private pension plans whose obligations far exceeded their assets, creating large potential liabilities for the federal corporation that guarantees pension benefits.
        Mr. Pickle's first wife died in 1952. In addition to his daughter, Mr. Pickle is survived by his second wife, Beryl, whom he married in 1960; a brother, Joe; a sister, Judith Pickle Lancaster; two stepsons; six grandchildren; and four great-granddaughters.
      