
        Cardinal Jaime L. Sin, the powerful Roman Catholic archbishop of Manila who used his influence to champion the rights of the poor and rally the widespread popular resistance that brought down the presidencies of Ferdinand E. Marcos and Joseph Estrada, died early today in Manila, a spokesman for the cardinal said. He was 76.
        A brother, Dr. Ramon Sin, said that the cardinal, who stepped down from the archdiocese in 2003 in poor health, died of renal failure, he told a television station in Manila.
        Cardinal Sin led the nearly 40 million Catholics in the Philippines for almost three decades, through political upheaval that brought martial law, repressive dictatorship and democratic rule.
        A round-faced, bespectacled man, he was known for his sense of humor that included poking fun of his own name. But it was through his withering and unwavering public criticism of the Marcos regime in the 1980's that Cardinal Sin became an international figure.
        At a time when reform-minded clergy in other developing countries were targets of assassination, Cardinal Sin tirelessly used his pulpit first as bishop, then archbishop, to attack Mr. Marcos' martial law, corruption and policies that oppressed the poor.
        Yet unlike Archbishop Oscar Romero of El Salvador, a contemporary who also worked to empower the poor and was fatally shot as he delivered a homily in 1980, Cardinal Sin seemed insulated from personal harm. ''If you compare him to Romero, he spoke out as much as Romero did,'' said the Rev. Paul L. Locatelli, the president of Santa Clara University. ''He saw justice as making sure that the poor had a voice.''
        Beginning in the 1970's, Cardinal Sin, a moderate, was among the leaders who publicly pressured Mr. Marcos to end the martial law that he had imposed in 1972 out of concern that leftist radicals would overthrow the government.
        For his part, Cardinal Sin had pledged to rein in Marxist priests and nuns in the ranks of the clergy. They had angered the government for, among other things, reporting to Amnesty International the military's systematic killing of villagers, and they concerned Cardinal Sin because they preached the gospel in Marxist terms.
        At first, he was careful not to attack the First Family as he assailed the regime's policies. As the Marcos regime wore on, his opposition became more strident, despite the lifting of martial law in 1981.
        Often, he used his famous sense of humor to deliver thinly veiled jokes that devastated the Marcos's power and style. In a joke he told about the ''mining industry,'' a wealthy and powerful woman -- not unlike Imelda R. Marcos, the country's flamboyant first lady -- pointed to things and proclaimed: ''That's mine! And that's mine!''
        But after senator Benigno S. Aquino, Mr. Marcos's leading political opponent was assassinated in 1983, it was the cardinal's unwavering support of the senator's widow, Corazon Aquino, in her campaign to overthrow Mr. Marcos, that showed his power as a popular kingmaker.
        After Mrs. Aquino returned to the Philippines from self-imposed exile to mount her campaign, she was barred from equal access to the media. Cardinal Sin's regular radio addresses on the Catholic radio station calling for the people to support her became a critical tool to rally millions to her side.
        After her election in 1986, he became known in Manila as the ''unseen general'' who handed down on earth orders from above.
        Jaime Lachica Sin was born on Aug. 31, 1928 on the Philippine island of Panay to Chinese parents. The 14th of 16 children, he was sent away at a young age to become a priest.
        Over his long career, he said his actions in the public sphere were not driven by politics, but ''a moral dimension.'' In 1986, he he called on Filipinos to surround the police and military headquarters in Manila to protect then-military Vice Chief of Staff Fidel Ramos, who had broken with Mr. Marcos, and they did.
        The mostly peaceful revolt that followed, ousting Mr. Marcos, who was accused of corruption and rights violations, became known as the ''people power'' revolution.
        He stepped down as head of the Manila Archdiocese, which he served for nearly three decades, after reaching retirement age of 75. Declining health forced him to curtail his appearances. During his long career, the cardinal was not without his critics. He staunchly opposed artificial means of birth control, which some critics said left the country overpopulated and mired in poverty.
        The nation is among the world's poorest. In 2003, it was estimated that 40 percent of the population survives on less than $1 a day.
        Under the cardinal's tenure, the church was shaken by accusations of sexual misconduct by some of its priests, according to The Associated Press. Two years ago, Catholic bishops apologized for grave cases of sexual misconduct by priests and pledged to act on complaints.
        The cardinal was a popular figure at protests throughout his career. He directed street protests that ledto Mr. Estrada's ouster in January 2001, and spoke forcefully at them.
        ''Mr. President, how could have done this to us?'' he asked. ''The poor trusted you and you betrayed them, the businessmen trusted you and you lied to them. The first lady married you and you have betrayed that vow and used many women.''
        After Mr. Estrada's ousters, his followers, many of them impoverished, denounced the cardinal and other politicians who forced Mr. Estrada from power, and stormed the presidential palace in May 2001 in riots that killed six people.
        Cardinal Sin apologized to the poor shortly thereafter,The A.P. reported. He said that the church had neglected them and made them easy prey for selfish and powerful politicians.
        ''You and I lived dangerously together through five presidents now,'' he told Filipinos when he resigned in 2003, according to Japanese news agency. ''Honestly, I was always a reluctant political archbishop.''
      