
        Gershon Jacobson, the founder, editor and publisher of Der Algemeiner Journal, one of the largest Yiddish-language weekly newspapers in North America, died on Sunday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his son Simon said.
        A former reporter for The New York Herald-Tribune, Mr. Jacobson founded Der Algemeiner Journal in 1972, publishing it for years from an office on the Lower East Side before moving it to his home last year. The paper, printed in Yiddish with a four-page English supplement, has a circulation of 18,000. Simon Jacobson said yesterday that his family plans to continue publishing the paper.
        Although Der Algemeiner Journal is widely read by Hasidic Jews, for whom Yiddish is the language of everyday affairs, Gershon Jacobson himself defied easy categorization. Describing himself as an observant Jew, he lived near the Lubavitcher community in Crown Heights, but was not formally affiliated with any Hasidic sect. His paper, at times a lightning rod in the Orthodox Jewish world, reported freely on tensions between rival Hasidic sects, notably the Lubavitch and the Satmar.
        Mr. Jacobson was born Boris Yacobashvili in Moscow on May 30, 1934, to a scholarly Lubavitcher family. His father was exiled to a Siberian prison camp during the Stalinist regime but escaped after World War II. The family fled the Soviet Union, eventually settling in Paris, where Gershon began his journalism career, and later in Toronto.
        Mr. Jacobson received an undergraduate degree from the University of Toronto and a graduate degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. He worked on The Herald-Tribune from the late 1950's until it ceased publication in 1966 and was later city editor for Der Tog-Morgen Journal, a Yiddish-language daily. After Der Tog closed in late 1971, he founded Der Algemeiner Journal.
        Mr. Jacobson is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Lipskier; three sons, all rabbis: Simon, Boruch and Yosef Y., all of Brooklyn; two daughters: Freida Hecht of Norwalk, Conn., and Chana Krasnianski of Manhattan; two brothers, Betzalel and Sholom, both of Brooklyn; 31 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      