
        Ray Budde, an education professor who defined the term charter school and stated the ideas that led to a nationwide school reform movement, died on June 11 in Springfield, Mass. He was 82.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott. He had lung cancer and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for many years.
        Dr. Budde, a former assistant professor at the school of education at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, first suggested the term ''charter'' for use in education in the 1970's to describe a novel contracting arrangement designed to support the efforts of innovative teachers within the public school system. He long opposed the later idea that charter schools could be an alternative to public education.
        The charter arrangement could result in a new type of school, Dr. Budde said, that would give teachers increased responsibility over curriculum and instruction in exchange for a greater degree of accountability for student achievement.
        In 1988, Dr. Budde elaborated on the concept in a book, ''Education by Charter: Restructuring School Districts'' (Learning Innovations). Dr. Budde illustrated his points with a model school system that allowed groups of teachers to receive charters from the school board, granting them the authority to manage schools and try new educational approaches within the existing structure of their home districts.
        As the charter school movement gained followers across the country and progressed, it expanded to include schools operating outside the mainstream public school administration.
        ''I think it quickly took off as a concept, and as quickly as it took off, it changed,'' Scott Budde said.
        Ted Kolderie, a senior associate at Education Evolving, a policy group in St. Paul, often exchanged ideas about charter schools with Dr. Budde.
        On the genesis of the charter concept, Mr. Kolderie said: ''It was one of these cases where somebody not very well known came to something that went on to be quite influential, just on his own, thinking about it.''
        Dr. Budde became interested in education reform early in his career, when he worked as a seventh grade English teacher, then as an assistant principal in East Lansing, Mich., after earning a bachelor's degree from St. Louis University in 1943. During World War II, he served in the Navy.
        After the war, he earned a master's degree in business administration from the University of Illinois, then studied education at Michigan State University, receiving his doctorate in 1959. Dr. Budde took a faculty position at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and remained there until 1973.
        Dr. Budde officially retired after serving 12 years as the director of the Blackstone Valley Educational Collaborative, an association of school districts in Massachusetts.
        Ray Budde was born in St. Louis in 1923. In addition to his son, Scott, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by another son, Stephen, of Chicago; a daughter, Lynne Budde Sheppard of Stanwood, Wash.; and a grandson. His wife, Patricia, and an infant son, Bruce, died before him.
      