
        Gen. Louis H. Wilson Jr., who received the Medal of Honor in World War II and served as commandant of the Marine Corps in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday at his home in Homewood, Ala., a Birmingham suburb. He was 85.
        His death was announced by the corps. He had a degenerative disorder of the nervous system, his daughter, Janet Taylor, told The Birmingham News.
        General Wilson commanded the Marines from 1975 to 1979 after serving in the Vietnam War as a senior officer with the First Marine Division. As commandant, he emphasized quality in the ranks, raising educational requirements for recruits and trying to screen out physically unfit young men seeking to enlist. At least 25,000 marines were discharged in his first two years as commandant because of disciplinary problems or substandard performance, and the corps gave officers greater oversight of training in an effort to curb physical abuse of trainees by drill instructors.
        Louis Hugh Wilson Jr., a native of Brandon, Miss., was commissioned a second lieutenant in November 1941 after graduating from Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss.
        He received the Medal of Honor for action as a company commander with the Ninth Marines, Third Marine Division, during the battle for Guam in the summer of 1944.
        On the afternoon of July 25, according to the medal citation, Captain Wilson led his men up rugged, open terrain in the face of heavy Japanese machine-gun and rifle fire, enabling them to capture a crucial position. That night, despite having been wounded three times, he repeatedly exposed himself to enemy fire during a Japanese counterattack, at one point dashing 50 yards into the open to rescue a wounded marine. He led his men through 10 hours of combat, including hand-to-hand encounters, and headed a patrol that seized a second objective, a strategic slope.
        After World War II, General Wilson held a variety of command posts. He was promoted to four-star rank upon becoming commandant, and retired from the military in June 1979.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Jane, and two grandsons.
      