
        Walter B. Wriston, the former chairman of Citicorp who became the most influential banker of his generation by making his bank into the world's largest through a barrage of innovations, including the automated teller machine, died on Wednesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his brother-in-law, Robert Dineen, said.
        When he started at what was then First National City Bank in 1946, Mr. Wriston sat at a roll-top desk waiting for customers and feared that he would be bored to death by the stodgy banking world.
        By the time he retired in 1984, he had dazzled the industry through aggressive international expansion, computerization and diversification that seemed dizzying except when compared with the changes that followed.
        Mr. Wriston redefined banking as he erased rules that had long constrained banks, from operating across state lines to competing with Wall Street investment firms to paying small savers the same interest rates as large investors. By pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into automated teller machines and other technological improvements, he revolutionized the way Americans handle their money. The company, now named Citigroup, also came to dominate the credit card business.
        From the fiscal crisis of New York City in the 1970's to the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980's, Mr. Wriston was at the forefront. He led the way in creating the financial supermarkets of today -- offering insurance, brokerage services and even data-processing and real estate development services.
        His final positions were chairman and chief executive of both Citibank and its holding company, then Citicorp. Previously, holding companies had been more common among smaller banks; Mr. Wriston was instrumental in adopting them to the needs of larger banks, allowing them to offer more services.
        Under Mr. Wriston's 17 years of leadership, Citicorp's assets grew by 761 percent, to $150.6 billion; its net income by 764 percent, to $890 million; and its loans by 937 percent, to $102.7 billion. But he also left the company with hundreds of millions of bad loans to poor countries, a hole that took the better part of a decade to dig out of. Ultimately, the company prospered and in 1998 merged with Travelers Group Inc. in a $84 billion deal to become the world's largest financial company. It was renamed Citigroup.
        John F. McGillicuddy, the former chairman of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, said yesterday that Mr. Wriston was ''the acknowledged leader of our generation of bankers.'' Mr. McGillicuddy said that Citibank was the first to make profitability its principal goal rather than simply having a good balance sheet.
        ''He changed banking from a relatively slow-moving institution to a fast-moving institution,'' Mr. McGillicuddy said.
        Paul A. Volcker, who as chairman of the Federal Reserve System, sparred with Mr. Wriston over banking regulations, said that he believed that the Citicorp chairman saw himself ''as a rival of the Federal Reserve in terms of his influence on the banking system.''
        When asked to describe Mr. Wriston, Mr. Volcker said, ''The word aggressive keeps coming back.''
        In particular, the two clashed over Mr. Wriston's contention that banks no longer needed high levels of capital as long as they were profitable, well managed and growing. In the end, Mr. Wriston won out: capital restrictions today are much lower.
        One of his early innovations, developed with another First National City executive in 1961, was a revolutionary financial instrument -- the negotiable certificate of deposit, or C.D. The bank proposed to offer these to corporations in denominations of $100,000 or more at higher interest rates. They attracted surplus cash that corporations had on hand from time to time, and were quickly imitated by other banks.
        As chairman of Citicorp, he continued an expansion of foreign and domestic branches he had begun as executive vice president, extending it to 41 states and 91 nations. Employees grew from 26,900 to 71,000.
        ''He is more responsible for the current landscape of American global banking than anyone in the 20th century,'' Phillip L. Zweig, author of ''Wriston: Walter Wriston, Citibank and the Rise and Fall of American Financial Supremacy'' (Crown, 1995), said yesterday.
        Mr. Wriston was not without his critics. Ralph Nader in 1973 issued a 406-page report denouncing Citibank, saying that, among other things, it cheated customers and underpaid employees.
        The bank issued a point-by-point rebuttal, with a forward by Mr. Wriston accusing Mr. Nader of ''reckless misuse of facts.''
        Walter Bigelow Wriston was born in Middletown, Conn., on Aug. 3, 1919. His father, Henry Merritt Wriston, was a history professor at Wesleyan University who would later achieve distinction as president of Brown University and as an adviser to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. His mother, the former Ruth Colton Bigelow, was a chemistry teacher.
        In 1925, the family moved to Appleton, Wis., where Henry was named president of Lawrence College. In an interview in Vision magazine in 1976, Henry said the family ''never had any money in the house.''
        He added, ''Walter was not brought up on Easy Street.''
        The boy was raised as a strict Methodist and was forbidden to go to the movies or listen to the radio. He walked several miles to school, often in subzero temperatures. He became an Eagle Scout at 15, and excelled at debating.
        When he enrolled at Wesleyan, he first majored in chemistry but switched to history because chemistry labs and basketball practice conflicted. He edited the college newspaper and won a prize for public speaking.
        After earning a master's degree from the Fletcher School of International Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, he immediately joined the State Department as a junior foreign service officer.
        He was drafted into the Army, and served 38 months in command of a Signal Corps unit in the Philippines. After he was discharged as a second lieutenant, he decided to look for work in New York City rather than rejoining the State Department.
        In June 1946, he reluctantly accepted a job as a junior inspector in the controller's office of First National City Bank. He promised himself he would leave within a year if it was as boring as he expected.
        But his ''dart hit the board'' in a phrase Current Biography attributed to Mr. Wriston. He began to climb the ranks and he eventually attracted the attention of George S. Moore, who was in charge of the expansion of international operations.
        Mr. Moore chose him as his assistant on the basis of an evaluation that described Mr. Wriston as the most brilliant young man who had ever worked at the bank. By 1960, he had become executive vice president.
        In 1967, Mr. Wriston succeeded Mr. Moore as president of the bank. That year, First National City edged past the Chase Manhattan Bank, headed by David Rockefeller, to become the biggest bank in New York City. In the world, the bank was then second only to Bank of America.
        As president, Mr. Wriston immediately reorganized the corporation into five groups, ranging from personal banking to an investment management group able to provide every conceivable financial service to some 7,000 institutions and individuals of high worth.
        The holding company called Citicorp was set up in 1968, a move that allowed the company to engage in activities normally prohibited to banks. Among other things, the corporation extended its small leasing business into an international operation that by 1973 was the world's largest, supplying everything from jumbo jets to gumball machines.
        In May 1970, Mr. Wriston succeeded Mr. Moore as chairman of the bank and holding company. He immediately set a goal of a 15 percent annual increase in earnings, a target considerably higher than the 10 percent or lower earnings growth rate of the 1960's. With the exception of 1975, a recession year, the goal was met.
        ''We have zero interest in asset growth,'' Mr. Wriston told Vision in 1976. ''What we're interested in being is the most profitable financial services business in the world, and we are.''
        Perhaps Mr. Wriston's most revolutionary achievement was setting up the first network of A.T.M.'s, which allowed customers to do their banking at any time, rather than depending on a human teller from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Citicorp's initial investment was $50 million and it developed the technology internally.
        When Mr. Wriston received the Presidential Medal of Freedom recently, he said the bank ''got a lot of flak'' for the necessarily impersonal nature of A.T.M.'s. Ads of competitors spoke of ''smiling young ladies who remember your name,'' he said.
        Mr. Wriston said, ''And the answer to that was at 7:30 at night when you go to the movies and you don't have any money, you like the soulless machine.''
        Mr. Zweig said that Mr. Wriston craftily brought women into management positions by identifying them in documents only by their initials. Some directors in particular could not imagine women in the executive dining room, Mr. Zweig said.
        Mr. Wriston, who also aggressively recruited minority employees, was known for his wide knowledge and sharp wit. When a New York State legislator accused the bank of peddling risky bonds during the fiscal crisis without warning people of possible problems, Mr. Wriston held up The Daily News with the front-page headline: ''City Broke.''
        He suggested that this news in a paper read by millions constituted adequate disclosure.
        Citibank was once accused of both lagging in making loans to the poor and seducing them into borrowing more money than they should. Mr. Wriston, a commanding 6-foot-4, gibed, ''Do I have a third choice?''
        He sometimes displayed his erudition in pop music by dropping snatches of songs into otherwise solemn discussions, The New York Times reported in 1985. On the frustrations of having too little knowledge to make a sensible decision, he paused before warbling, ''I don't know enough about you.'' His blue eyes twinkled.
        Mr. Wriston's first wife, the former Barbara Bengle, died in 1966. He is survived by his wife, the former Kathryn Dineen; his daughter, Catherine, of Darien, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
        During his retirement Mr. Wriston wrote several books about business and technology, and served on numerous boards. Small, innovative technology companies especially intrigued him. Fortune magazine in 1999 asked him why.
        ''Well, if I'm not awfully careful, I learn something,'' he said.
        Correction:  January 29, 2005, Saturday  An obituary on Jan. 21 about Walter B. Wriston, who was chairman of Citicorp when it was the holding company for Citibank, misstated the name it bore when he went to work there in 1946. It was the National City Bank of New York; it became the First National City Bank in 1955.
      