
        Donald D. Buchanan, a mechanical engineer and NASA official who played a leading role in designing the powerful ''crawler'' vehicles that carried rockets to their launching sites in the 1960's and 70's and that became indispensable in later space missions, died on June 13 at his home in Titusville, Fla. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In the early 60's, as the nation's space program accelerated and began to aim toward a manned lunar landing, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration faced the problem of ferrying larger rockets from storage to their launching pads at Cape Canaveral, Fla.
        After first considering barges and a rail system, administrators approved the crawler concept, that of a four-track vehicle able to carry as much as 12 million pounds.
        Mr. Buchanan, known as Buck, directed the design and development of the vehicle, which was able to haul both rockets and mobile launchers several miles.
        The system was successful, a second crawler was built, and the 131-foot-long vehicles were later used in launching the Skylab space stations and are still essential in preparations for flights of the space shuttle.
        As engineering manager for Launch Complex 39 at the Kennedy Space Center, Mr. Buchanan also helped design three mobile launchers, used in the Saturn 5 missions to the Moon. They were 363 feet tall.
        ''There wasn't any similar structure to compare the mobile launcher with, so we compared it with buildings,'' Mr. Buchanan told The Spaceport News, the newspaper of the space center, in 1968. ''We had a problem getting people used to these proportions.''
        Donald Dean Buchanan was born in Macon, Ga., and received an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1949.
        He did research for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics before working for the Army Ballistic Missile Agency in Huntsville, Ala., from 1956 to 1960. He then joined NASA, and in 1976 was named the space center's director of mechanical and facilities engineering. NASA awarded him its Distinguished Service Medal in 1974. He retired in 1981.
        Mr. Buchanan is survived by his wife of 59 years, Jean; a son, Lee, of Titusville; two daughters, Suellen Chandler of Pebble Beach, Calif., and Joanne Scully of Lakewood, Wash.; and five grandchildren.
      