
        Thomas Gilmore Pownall, the former chief executive of Martin Marietta who warded off a hostile takeover bid in the early 1980's with a novel strategy that came to be called the Pac-Man defense, died near his home in Potomac, Md., on Friday. He was 83.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        From 1982 to 1987, Mr. Pownall served as chief executive of the Martin Marietta Corporation, which is today the Lockheed Martin Corporation. He created the Pac-Man defense in 1982, by bidding for Bendix Corporation, the very company that was trying to take over Martin Marietta.
        In August 1982, just four months after Mr. Pownall became chief executive, Bendix, an electronics company, delivered a letter to the company's headquarters saying it had bought a majority of Martin Marietta and intended to buy the remaining shares for $43 apiece.
        Under Mr. Pownall's leadership, Martin Marietta quickly came up with a plan with its bankers, Kidder, Peabody & Company, to buy Bendix shares and make a retaliatory take-over bid against Bendix. Five days after Bendix made its tender offer for Marietta, Marietta announced a bid of $75 a share for Bendix.
        Ultimately, the Allied Corporation took over Bendix and Marietta remained independent, though loaded with nearly $1 billion in debt from buying up so many Bendix shares. Mr. Pownall then oversaw a substantial reduction of the debt.
        ''Tom and our bankers decided if Bendix was going to own us, we would own them,'' said Norman R. Augustine, who succeeded Mr. Pownall as chief executive in 1987. ''There wouldn't be Lockheed Martin today if it hadn't been for Tom and the courage he showed.''
        Raised in West Virginia, Mr. Pownall attended the Naval Academy and served in the Navy for two years during the Korean War. He worked in the paper box industry, as a salesman for a steel fabricator, as a factory supervisor for General Motors' Chevrolet division in Ohio and in government relations for the General Dynamics Corporation. In 1952, he was an advance man for Dwight D. Eisenhower's presidential campaign, and in 1960, he played the same role for Richard M. Nixon's campaign.
        He joined Martin Marietta in 1963 as a vice president and quickly advanced, becoming chief executive in 1982. He retired as chief executive in 1987 but remained on Marietta's board until 1991.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marilyn Cunnick Pownall; two daughters, Suzi Locke and Fuzzy Billings; his sister, Molly Peters; and six grandchildren
        Despite the importance of the takeover battle, one of Mr. Pownall's favorite moments at Martin Marietta was overseeing the development of two Viking spacecraft for NASA's first expedition to Mars in 1976, said Herbert G. Klein, a retired journalist and longtime friend of Mr. Pownall.
        Mr. Klein said Mr. Pownall was the kind of person who ''never let go'' of a challenge. The day after Bendix announced its takeover intentions, Mr. Klein remembered, Mr. Pownall began wearing a tie and kept it on every day for the monthlong fight for the company. It had naval pennants reading ''Don't Give Up the Ship.''
      