
        Paul Hallingby Jr., an investment banker who helped develop the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died yesterday at his home in Sutton Place in Manhattan.
        He was 85 and also had homes in Southampton and in Lyford Cay, Bahamas.
        His death was announced by his wife, Jo Davis Hallingby, who said he had Parkinson's disease.
        Mr. Hallingby was chief executive of the investment firm White, Weld & Company in 1978, when it was acquired for $50 million by Merrill Lynch. At the time, it was one of Wall Street's largest mergers.
        After serving as vice chairman of Merrill Lynch, Mr. Hallingby left in 1980 to become a general partner at Bear Stearns & Company, where he held the title of managing director emeritus at the time of his death. He was also a director of the New York Stock Exchange.
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Hallingby was the chairman of the state operating corporation responsible for developing the Javits Center, a position he regarded as a highlight of his career, Mrs. Hallingby said.
        He was a donor to many institutions, among them the Metropolitan Opera, where he served on the board.
        Mr. Hallingby was born in Los Angeles on Sept. 27, 1919, and attended Stanford University and Harvard Business School, where he was a Baker Scholar, said his son, Paul L. Hallingby, who is known as Barney, of Manhattan.
        Mr. Hallingby entered the Navy before finishing his M.B.A., and after receiving his commission, served in naval operations in Washington. He reached the rank of commander.
        Mr. Hallingby's wedding in 1944 in Philadelphia to Allison Lazo, was notable partly because of the bridge's lineage -- she was the granddaughter of a former Guatemalan minister to the United States.
        Allison Lazo Hallingby died in 1965.
        The couple had three children, who survive Mr. Hallingby: their son, Paul; and two daughters, Leigh Hallingby of Teaneck, N.J., and Allison Hallingby Dodge of Rosemont, Pa.
        Mr. Hallingby married Jo Davis Hallingby in 1994.
      