
        Oliver Jensen, a founder and former editor of American Heritage magazine, died early yesterday morning in Chester, Conn. He was 91 and had lived in Old Saybrook, Conn., for many years.
        Mr. Jensen died in his sleep at an assisted-living facility, his stepdaughter, Penelope Hargrove, said.
        With Joseph Thorndike and James Parton, Mr. Jensen founded American Heritage in 1954. The three men, all former staff members at Life magazine, aimed to create a general-interest publication that presented American history in the accessible style of popular newsmagazines.
        Today, American Heritage, which is published every other month, has a circulation of 340,000. The magazine is part of the American Heritage Publishing Company, a division of Forbes Inc., whose other magazines include American Legacy and Invention and Technology.
        Oliver Ormerod Jensen was born in Ithaca, N.Y., on April 16, 1914. He earned a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1936, and during World War II served in the United States Naval Reserve.
        Mr. Jensen joined Life as a writer in 1940 and, after the war, was an editor there. With Mr. Thorndike and Mr. Parton, he founded Thorndike, Jensen & Parton, a custom publishing concern, in 1950.
        From 1959 to 1976, Mr. Jensen was the editor of American Heritage, succeeding the historian Bruce Catton. From 1981 to 1983, he was chief of the division of prints and photographs at the Library of Congress. In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Jensen, a passionate railroad enthusiast, was president and chairman of the Valley Railroad, a restored 19th-century steam line in Essex, Conn.
        Mr. Jensen wrote several books, including ''Carrier War'' (Simon & Schuster, 1945); ''The Revolt of American Women'' (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1952); and ''The American Heritage History of Railroads in America'' (1975).
        Mr. Jensen's first four marriages, which included a brief marriage to the novelist Jean Stafford, ended in divorce. His fifth wife, the former Alison Pfeiffer Hargrove, whom he married in 1970, died in 2000. Besides his stepdaughter, of Santa Cruz, Calif., he is survived by two stepsons: Christopher Hargrove of West Hollywood, Calif., and Stephen Hargrove of Los Angeles; and four step-grandchildren.
      