
        Gerard C. Bond, a marine geologist at Columbia University who conducted novel studies of earth's climate changes by interpreting sediments taken from beneath the seafloor, died last Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 65 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y.
        The cause was carcinoid cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Bond had conducted his research at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia since 1980 and was head of the Lamont-Doherty Deep-Sea Sample Repository there.
        Trained as a classical geologist, Dr. Bond shifted his interests to the ocean floor in the early 1990's, when he began to look at samples of sediments retrieved from the North Atlantic. With other scientists, he concluded that relatively recent and unusual layers of limestone and other sediments had been deposited by the melting of ''armadas of icebergs'' that originated in eastern Canada.
        In further studies, of iron-stained quartz grains within the sediments, he found that a cycle of warming climates released the glaciers every 1,400 to 1,500 years, an occurrence leading to a periodic cooling of ocean waters by several degrees. He traced the warming and cooling cycle back 100,000 years, compared evidence of a correlation in Greenland's ice and, along with a team of other researchers, published the results in the journal Nature in 1993.
        G. Michael Purdy, director of the observatory, said that Dr. Bond had helped translate ''an incredibly rich source of information about the earth's history and a fabulous tape recorder of millions of years of that history and the climate.''
        In the late 90's, seeking to understand the causes of the 1,500-year cycles, Dr. Bond theorized that variations in solar activity -- the appearance of sunspots and changes in the emission of solar radiation -- might be driving them, said a colleague, Wallace S. Broecker, a professor of geochemistry at Columbia. Other scientists are exploring the theory, and trying to determine whether the natural cycle is acting in concert with human-generated greenhouse gases to accelerate global warming.
        In earlier work, Dr. Bond studied the settling of continents and its relation to changes in sea levels. In the 1980's, he oversaw a seismic profile of the Hudson River, conducted to record images of the deep geological structure beneath the continent.
        Gerard Clark Bond, the son of a geologist, was born in Altus, Okla., and received an undergraduate degree from Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, a master's from the University of Alaska, and a doctorate in geology from the University of Wisconsin.
        He taught at Williams College and the University of California, Davis, before moving to Columbia in 1980. He was named head of the Lamont-Doherty repository in 1993. Ten years later, the American Geophysical Union awarded him its Maurice Ewing Medal for outstanding service to marine sciences.
        Dr. Bond is survived by his wife of 13 years, Rusty Lotti Bond, a curator at the repository. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by two sons, Derek, of Arcata, Calif., and Justin, of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Alison, of Olympia, Wash.; two brothers, Dwain, of Big Spring, Tex., and Wendell, of Denver; and two stepchildren, Mario Lotti of New York and Ramona Lotti of Omaha.
        Correction:  July 8, 2005, Friday  An obituary of the marine geologist Gerard C. Bond on Wednesday gave a misspelled name in some copies for the California hometown of his son Derek. It is Arcata, not Arcada.
      