
        Joel Gersmann, the longtime artistic director of the Broom Street Theater, a provocative experimental company based in Madison, Wis., died at his home there on June 24. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Rod Clark, the company's acting chairman.
        Working out of a black-box theater, Mr. Gersmann produced, wrote or directed more than 200 plays over his 35-year career. Born of a fervent antiwar movement percolating out of the nearby campus of the University of Wisconsin, the Broom Street was founded with advocacy in mind; its first production, a racy 1968 version of ''Lysistrata,'' was nearly shut down by the city.
        Mr. Gersmann -- who directed the company's second production, ''Woyzeck'' -- embraced that ethos whole-heartedly. Born in Brooklyn, he gravitated to Wisconsin to pursue a doctorate in theater, but soon left academia to head the Broom Street and was putting on politically charged versions of everything from Shakespeare's ''Troilus and Cressida'' to ''Bombs Away, Enola Gay!,'' a play about the A-bomb pilot Paul Tibbetts, which he wrote and directed.
        Over the years, the Broom Street Theater would touch on topics like the AIDS crisis, McCarthyism, pedophilia in the Roman Catholic Church and the student murders in Columbine, Colo. The company's often confrontational productions, usually presented in a bare-bones style with borrowed costumes and handmade sets, sometimes ran afoul of civic and political leaders. In 1990, shortly after staging a production called ''The Chicken and the Chickenhawk,'' written and directed by Mr. Gersmann, about a sexual relationship between a man and a boy, the company lost its federal arts financing. Still, Mr. Gersmann insisted that the theater remain affordable and accessible, with all seats costing $7 and available only at the door.
        Mr. Gersmann is survived by his companion, Gerri Alger, of Madison; his mother, Irma, of St. Louis; and a sister, Gayle, also of St. Louis.
      