
        Bernard Kilbourn, New York's first Republican state chairman in the fractious post-Rockefeller era, died on June 29 at his home in Port Jervis, N. Y. He was 81.
        His death was announced by the Gray-Parker Funeral Home in Port Jervis.
        Dr. Kilbourn, a dentist by profession in Chadwicks, N.Y., at the time, was elected party chairman in 1977, after many years in which the state party had been dominated by Nelson A. Rockefeller, governor of New York from 1959 to 1973.
        A former Oneida County chairman, Dr. Kilbourn was an effective organizer, soft-spoken and methodical, who scolded New York Republicans for having ''developed bad habits'' by becoming dependent on Mr. Rockefeller's financial support and letting its organization become lax. His remedy was to carve the party into regions with vice chairmen who would actively get out the vote and raise money.
        He gave up his dental practice to work full time for the party. But Mr. Rockefeller's departure from the scene, and the defeat of his successor as governor, Malcolm Wilson, had splintered the party, and in the 1978 elections, Hugh L. Carey became the first Democratic governor to win re-election in 40 years.
        In 1979, Dr. Kilbourn organized an ambitious fund-raising effort. As New York Republican support for Ronald Reagan grew in the 1980 campaign, Dr. Kilbourn hoped to keep the state delegation to the national convention uncommitted, but he failed, and the delegation went to the convention with 91 of its members committed to Mr. Reagan. He helped run the state campaign for Mr. Reagan, however, and was re-elected to the state chairmanship in September 1980.
        After the Reagan victory, Dr. Kilbourn was named regional director of the Department of Health and Human Services for New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, a post he held from 1981 to 1989.
        Bernard Mason Kilbourn was born in Sauquoit, N.Y., on Feb. 13, 1924. He served in the Army in World War II and in the Korean War. After World War II, he graduated from Hamilton College and went to the New York University Dental School. He practiced dentistry in Chadwicks, N.Y., from 1953 until 1977.
        Dr. Kilbourn is survived by his wife, Dorothy Stevens Kilbourn; four sons, Mason, of Staunton, Va.; Wayne, of Denver; Bruce, of Nashville; and Charles Strong of Utica; five daughters, Denise Eagan of Schenectady, N. Y., Laura Misiano of Jamison, Pa., Julie Kelly of Middletown, N. Y., Lynn Ritchel of Evansville, Ind.; and Charlene Hazzard of Rochester; a brother, Calvin, of Sauquoit; and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      