
        Charles R. Thomson, a leading federal firearms and explosives investigator who helped track down the people who bombed the World Trade Center in 1993 and those who blew up the Federal Building in Oklahoma City two years later, died Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 61.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        When the car bombs rocked the World Trade Center garage in February 1993, Mr. Thomson, a resident of Manhattan at the time, was among the first on the scene. He was the special agent in charge of the New York office of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, whose office then was just across the street, at 90 Church Street.
        He led his own team of A.T.F. agents, later reinforced to about two dozen from national headquarters, as they joined a small army of kindred law enforcement personnel in sifting the debris and piecing together evidence once they dug up the exploding vehicle's identification number. Within days, the joint effort produced the results that later led to the arrest and conviction of those responsible.
        Later that year, Mr. Thomson was named associate director for law enforcement at the Washington A.T.F. headquarters, in the Treasury Department. He oversaw all A.T.F. field officers in five headquarters divisions and their response to the Oklahoma City bombing, for which he received a presidential citation.
        Charles Renfrew Thomson was born in Manhattan and raised in Amesbury, Mass., graduating from Dartmouth College with a history degree in 1965. He served as a captain in the Army, commanding a helicopter unit in Vietnam and then monitoring the deployment of Soviet nuclear warheads along the Iron Curtain in Europe. The job, flying along the border, required a high security clearance.
        Mr. Thomson, a descendant of Josiah Bartlett, a New Hampshire signer of the Declaration of Independence, grew up with a sense of patriotic duty, his family said.
        He started with the A.T.F. in 1971 as an undercover field agent in New England. Then, as a group supervisor in Philadelphia, he led the bureau's first arson task force.
        In 1980, Mr. Thomson headed a task force that solved a rash of bombing attacks on women's clinics that performed abortions. His work earned him a leadership award from the secretary of the treasury.
        Mr. Thomson headed the New York field division from 1989 to 1993. After his tenure as an associate director in Washington, he headed the Boston field division until retiring in 1999 from what has since become the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives under the Justice Department.
        After that, he worked as a consultant in areas including antiterrorism and crisis management from his home in Hampton Falls, Mass. He returned to the Washington area in 2003.
        Mr. Thomson is survived by his wife of eight years, Louise Lindblom Thomson; a son, Eric, of Durham, N.C.; his mother, Lavinia Thomson of Amesbury; a sister, Sally Pentoliros of South Hampton, N.H.; a brother, Eric, also of Amesbury; two stepchildren, Stephanie Eby of Alexandria, and Hunter Lindblom of Birmingham, Ala.; and two grandchildren. His first marriage, to Diane Gould Thomson of Amesbury, ended in divorce.
      