
        Dr. Vincent J. Fontana, a national voice for abused and neglected children and the longtime medical director of the New York Foundling, the service agency for such children and their families, died on Tuesday while vacationing on Block Island, R.I. He was 81 and lived in Stony Brook, N.Y.
        The cause was not given, and his death occurred suddenly, according to a statement from the New York Foundling. The previous week, Dr. Fontana had attended a fund-raising golf outing and taken part in a seminar on child protection at the Greenwich Village center named in his honor.
        Over a half century, Dr. Fontana helped define the problems and magnitude of child neglect in this country. He wrote books and many articles on the subject, and in 1959 became the medical director and principal pediatrician of what was then the New York Foundling Hospital.
        The institution is the successor to the New York Foundling Asylum begun by two nuns in 1869 in the wake of the Civil War; it changed its name to Foundling Hospital in 1891 and eventually evolved into the Foundling, a social service agency serving thousands of people, from newborns to adults.
        In his long career, Dr. Fontana also served as personal physician to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Cardinal Francis Spellman of New York. His work provided guidelines for saving children through similar initiatives across the country. Part of his legacy was the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection, an adjunct of the Foundling that he started in 1998.
        The center, relocated into a converted four-story school building on Christopher Street last November, complemented a variety of shelters he had organized since the early 1970's. It houses a conference center, an education center and psychiatric and psychological services.
        Dr. Fontana, a trained pediatrician, started the center to further the understanding and detection of child abuse and neglect, and to teach their prevention and treatment. Close by is another Foundling branch, Our Place, a clinic for children who fall victim to severe sexual and physical abuse.
        He was involved in manifold programs of foster care and adoption services, prenatal care for expectant young mothers and the like, and his innovative approaches set a pattern for other institutions.
        His books included titles like ''Practical Management of the Allergic Child'' and ''Somewhere a Child Is Crying.'' His classic text, ''The Maltreated Child: The Maltreatment Syndrome in Children: a Medical, Legal and Social Guide,'' written with Douglas J. Besharov, came out in 1964 and remains in print.
        Vincent James Fontana was born in New York City on Nov. 19, 1923. He received his medical degree from Long Island College of Medicine in 1947 and trained in obstetrics and pediatrics. He completed his studies in pediatric allergy at N.Y.U. in 1952 before serving in the Medical Corps at the Naval Hospital, Bethesda, during the Korean War.
        At that time he was a personal physician to both the Secretary of the Navy and to President Eisenhower whenever he spent time at the Camp David retreat. After leaving the service in 1954, Dr. Fontana returned to New York to practice on his own and became a Cardinal Spellman's doctor.
        He was appointed medical director of Foundling Hospital in 1959, and making his rounds as chief pediatrician, he met children wanting in life's very basics -- food, clothing, shelter, and parental love. He distilled his observations in 1963 in an eye-opening article, ''The Maltreated Syndrome in Children,'' published in The New England Journal of Medicine.
        In 1972 he opened the hospital's first residential ''temporary shelter'' as a comprehensive treatment center for abusive mothers and their children. From this he went on to found, in 1982, a crisis nursery, ''Island of Safety,'' for abused and neglected children, and the educational and therapeutic center that now bears his name.
        Dr. Fontana was chairman of the Mayor's Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect under John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, and Edward I. Koch. He held teaching and clinical positions at St. Vincent's Hospital, N.Y.U., and St. Albans Naval Hospital, among others.
        He is survived by a brother, Joseph, of Miami, and a sister, Lee Fontana Bobrow of Davie, Fla.
      