
        John L. Hess, a journalist, essayist and author whose often provocative, even cranky, opinions on subjects from food to France to the First Amendment appeared in The New York Times, a handful of books and radio commentary, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87.
        The cause was congestive heart failure and pneumonia, his son Peter said.
        Much of Mr. Hess's career was at The Times. It ranged from investigations into corrupt nursing home operators to dispatches from Paris about fine cuisine and French frivolities like a carnival to attract wives for unmarried men.
        Such wit became celebrated. When Rudolf Bing, then the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, asked to see his obituary, already prepared by Mr. Hess, the journalist told him to get a posthumous subscription.
        As a food and restaurant critic, he loathed the term ''gourmet'' because he thought everything should taste better. He once gave all of Chinatown four stars.
        He and his wife, Karen Hess, a culinary historian, collaborated on ''The Taste of America'' (Grossman, 1977), a book that began with the question, ''How shall we tell our fellow Americans that our palates have been ravaged, that our food is awful, and that our most respected authorities on cookery are poseurs?''
        The answer is 336 withering pages, not a few of them efforts to deflate the eminent food writers Julia Child and Craig Claiborne.
        Mr. Hess's curmudgeonly manner continued into his last book, ''My Times: A Memoir of Dissent'' (Seven Stories Press, 2003), in which he mixed some acerbic memories of The Times with the occasional grudging compliment.
        John Hess was born in Salt Lake City on Dec. 27, 1917. His middle initial, L, does not stand for anything. His wife said it was added later to distinguish him from another John Hess.
        Mr. Hess was a history major at the University of Utah, then worked as a reporter at The Bisbee Daily Review in Bisbee, Ariz. He soon left because the paper would not let him write about corrupt officials, assigning him instead to Rotary Club luncheons.
        During World War II, Mr. Hess served in the merchant marine. He then worked for United Press, The Associated Press, The New York Daily News and The New York Post.
        Mr. Hess joined The Times on its financial copy desk in 1954. After stints as an editor on the foreign copy desk and as a reporter working the night shift in the office, he went to Paris in 1964 to work as a reporter and editor for a Paris edition The Times was starting. He stayed on as a regular correspondent after the enterprise was discontinued.
        The French government awarded him the Ordre National du Mérite for his fervent appreciation of things French. He returned to New York in 1972 to be the food editor for a year, writing a weekly column, De Gustibus.
        His suspicion of American cuisine had already been sharpened when his grandson, who lived in Paris, tasted his first American strawberry. He said it tasted like bleach and spit it out. The book attacking American food was born.
        Mr. Hess was assigned to help investigate reports that the Metropolitan Museum of Art was quietly selling valuable artworks through galleries to acquire other, more expensive pieces. A result was that several famous objects, including a version of ''Odalisque'' by Ingres, were kept rather than sold. One of the prized acquisitions was a Greek vase, the Euphronios krater, named for its maker, which became the focus of accusations of grave-robbing and smuggling in the international art market.
        In 1974, Mr. Hess's reporting about nursing home abuses won several journalism prizes and a citation from the federal Department of Health, Education and Welfare, its first given to someone not in government service.
        In addition to his wife and son Peter, who both live in Manhattan, Mr. Hess is survived by another son, Michael, of the Bronx; a daughter, Martha Hess of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
        Since leaving The Times in 1978, Mr. Hess wrote freelance articles for The Nation and other publications, read daily editorials on WBAI radio and wrote commentaries on his Web site, John L. Hess: Dissents (www.johnlhess.blogspot.com).
        His last, on Dec. 31, expressed incredulity that a Times critic approved of paying up to $500 for a sushi dinner.
        Correction:  February 14, 2005, Monday  An obituary on Jan. 22 about John L. Hess, an author and former reporter and food editor for The New York Times, misstated the cause of his death. He died of pneumonia; he did not also suffer from congestive heart failure. The obituary also misstated his birthplace and the name of the college he attended. He was born in New York, not Salt Lake City, and he attended the City College of New York, not the University of Utah.
      