
        James Haskins, an educator who in seeking to make up for the dearth of children's books on black historical figures ultimately became one of America's most prolific children's book authors with more than 100 works of nonfiction to his credit, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
        No cause was given, but his family said he had suffered from emphysema.
        Despite the abundance of his published works, Mr. Haskins once recalled that he had ''stumbled into writing'' while teaching a special education class of 10-year-olds at Public School 92 in New York City in 1967. The students suffered from a variety of disabilities and their position was undermined by their environment and by a lack of self-esteem. ''While I could not do much about their home lives, I worried about my students constantly and wondered what kind of future awaited them,'' Mr. Haskins said. He confided his concerns to a friend, who urged him to keep a journal of his experiences. Another friend showed the journal to Barney Rosset at Grove Press, who published it in 1969 as ''Diary of a Harlem Schoolteacher.''
        Perhaps the first book written by a black educator on the decay of inner-city schools, it exposed a system in which everything from bureaucracy to the physical decrepitude of the buildings themselves served to undermine the goals of education. Ronald Gross, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called it ''the saddest book on education I have ever read.''
        ''Haskins's account is plain, concrete, unemotional and unliterary,'' he wrote, adding: ''By its truthfulness alone does it command our concern. The book is like a weapon -- cold, blunt, painful.''
        Mr. Haskins's journal not only attracted the attention of social critics and educators but also aroused the interest of children's book publishers, who asked if he would be interested in writing for a young audience. ''It was a perfect opportunity,'' Mr. Haskins said later. ''If my teachers had followed the official curriculum, I would have grown up thinking that blacks had never done anything in the history of the world except be slaves. I knew exactly what I wanted to write -- books about current events, black history and important black people so that students could understand the larger world around them. Books written on a level that students could understand.''
        Determined to document the significant achievements of black people, Mr. Haskins -- who wrote under the name Jim Haskins in addition to James -- produced several dozen juvenile biographies. His subjects ranged from sports and popular cultural names like Hank Aaron, Stevie Wonder and Bill Cosby to political figures like Adam Clayton Powell Jr., the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. He received awards for ''James Van DerZee: The Picture Takin' Man'' (1980), ''The March on Washington'' (1994) and ''Black Music in America: A History Through Its People'' (1987).
        His adult books included biographies of Richard Pryor, Scott Joplin, Lionel Hampton, Winnie Mandela, and ''Bricktop,'' of which he was a co-author with the red-haired Bricktop, the African-American woman who was a Paris nightclub owner in the 1920's. ''The Cotton Club'' (1977), His portrait of the legendary Harlem cabaret, was an inspiration for the 1984 Francis Ford Coppola film of the same name.
        James S. Haskins was born in Demopolis, Ala., on Sept. 19, 1941. His parents separated when he was 12, and he and his mother moved to Roxbury, Mass. After graduating from high school, he enrolled at Alabama State University but was expelled as an ''outside rabble-rouser'' for his participation in student civil rights protests. He went on to receive a B.A. from Georgetown University and an M.A. in social psychology from the University of New Mexico. He divided his time between his home in New York and Florida, where he was professor of English at the University of Florida at Gainesville.
        Mr. Haskins's survivors include his wife, Kathy Haskins; two daughters, Margaret Haskins of New York and Elisa Haskins of Dormington, Ind.; and a son, Michael Haskins of Washington.
      