
        Gustaf Sobin, an American-born writer who for more than 40 years wove the history, sensations and language of his adopted Provence into his poetry and prose, died on July 7 at a hospital in Cavaillon, Vaucluse, near his home in Goult in the south of France. He was 69.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Susannah Sobin, said.
        Mr. Sobin (pronounced SO-bin) saw himself principally as a poet, but his greatest popularity came with a novel, ''The Fly-Truffler'' (W.W. Norton, 2000).
        Set on a family farm, the short novel follows Philippe Cabassac, a loner nearing 50 who lectures on the fading Provençal dialect at the University of Avignon, as he tumbles into madness over the loss of his wife, Julieta, who died two years earlier. A beautiful student half his age, Julieta had become disconnected from life after a failed pregnancy. Cabassac discovers that his nightly ritual of eating truffles predisposes him to dreams of his beloved. And so each winter he wanders his property, patting the earth with a little whisk broom to rouse ''lei mousco,'' the golden flies that reveal the buried truffles -- ''far more carnal, fleshy, gamelike than anything vegetal.''
        Reviewing Mr. Sobin's ''marvelous, mesmerizing new novel'' in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt called it ''one of those rare, haunting novels that you consume in a single sitting and that you put down wondering what day it is and where you are, as if awakening from one of Cabassac's enrapturing dreams.''
        Born in Boston on Nov. 15, 1935, Mr. Sobin graduated from Brown University in 1957, by which time he had traveled extensively in Europe and visited Ernest Hemingway in Cuba, not far from his parents' second home in Palm Beach.
        Mr. Sobin said that Hemingway, at once entirely American and ''consummately expatriate,'' was ''the bridge'' between continents, ''the gateway out.'' As an aspiring poet, Mr. Sobin strove to emulate him. In 1962, Mr. Sobin arrived in Paris where he almost immediately met René Char, a French poet whom he admired greatly. ''If you love my poetry, you must visit Provence,'' Char told him, ''because my poetry comes of out the earth, the land and the light.''
        Mr. Sobin journeyed south and found the sense of place that had eluded him during his childhood in New England. He bought an abandoned silk cocoonery in the village of Goult, in the Vaucluse, for $800 and lived off the $2,000 annual income from a trust fund.
        ''I learnt how to read the landscape as one might read a text,'' Mr. Sobin recollected of his adopted countryside, ''a textus, a woven fabric.''
        A close associate of Char, Mr. Sobin nonetheless found the relationship severed for a time, when in 1968 he bucked his mentor's belief that a poet is wed only to himself and married the English painter Susannah Bott. That year she gave birth to their daughter, Esther; their son, Gabriel, was born in 1971. In December 1972, after a decade of incubation, Mr. Sobin wrote what he considered his first poem. After issuing a number of chapbooks, his first major book of poetry, ''Wind Chrysalid's Rattle,'' was published in 1980 by Montemora.
        In all, Mr. Sobin published more than a dozen books of poetry, four novels, a children's story and two compilations of essays, the second to be issued next spring. He was working on a collection of poems and a project about Provence with the photographer James Hajicek at his death.
        In addition to his wife and children, all of Provence, he is survived by a brother, Harris Sobin, of Tucson.
      