
        Seymour M. Finger, a retired United States diplomat at the United Nations and a recognized authority on foreign affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        The cause was aspiration pneumonia, his wife, Annette, said.
        At his death, Mr. Finger was a senior fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies of the City University of New York. He was the institute's director from 1971 to 1982.
        Mr. Finger served in the United States Mission to the United Nations from 1956 to 1971; for the last four of those years, he was a senior adviser, with the rank of ambassador, to the United States' permanent representative to the United Nations. In later years, Mr. Finger taught political science at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and at the Staten Island College.
        Seymour Maxwell Finger, known as Max, was born in the Bronx on April 30, 1915, and was raised in Brooklyn. He earned a bachelor's degree in American history from Ohio University in 1935, and during World War II he served with the Army in Europe.
        Mr. Finger began his diplomatic career in 1946 with the Foreign Service, holding posts throughout Europe and in Laos. In the 1950's, he did graduate work in economics at Harvard.
        The author or editor of many books, Mr. Finger wrote ''American Jewry During the Holocaust'' (1984), published by the American Jewish Commission on the Holocaust. The report of the commission, of which Mr. Finger was research director, concluded that the major Jewish organizations in the United States had not done all they could to save victims of the Holocaust, still a controversial position at the time of publication. The chairman of the commission was former Justice Arthur J. Goldberg of the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Finger's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Helen Kotcher, whom he married in 1956, died in the 1980's. He is survived by his wife, the former Annette Baslaw, whom he married in 1988; four children: Mark, of Manhattan; Robin Baslaw of Guilford, Conn.; Michele Friedman of West Hempstead, N.Y.; David Baslaw of Passaic, N.J.; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      