
        José Bezerra da Silva, a revered samba singer whose witty lyrics extolling the lives of street thugs and hustlers made him an inspiration to a generation of Brazilian hip-hop artists, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure after a severe lung infection, according to a spokesman for Servidores do Estado Hospital, where he had been on a respirator since Oct. 28.
        Mr. da Silva, who was known in the music world as Bezerra da Silva, was one of the most colorful and controversial figures in Brazil's music industry. He played an important role in popularizing the bad-boy image of the ''malandro,'' the stereotypical Brazilian bohemian who scorns work and revels in pulling fast ones on unwitting victims.
        For more than four decades, Mr. da Silva sang about the drug lords and street criminals that rule Brazil's sprawling urban shantytowns, mixing irony and social criticism to create a popular music genre that came to be known as ''sambandido'' (bandit samba). Some critics have called the genre samba's equivalent of gangsta rap. Mr. da Silva's lyrics also frequently denounced political corruption and police brutality, making him a prominent voice of the poor in Brazil.
        José Bezerra da Silva was born into poverty on March 9, 1927, in Recife, the capital of the northeastern state of Pernambuco. When he was 15, he migrated to Rio as a stowaway on a cargo ship and settled in Morro do Cantagalo, one of the city's most notorious hillside slums. He spent his early years in Rio working as a day laborer at construction sites and dabbling with music on the side in a local samba school.
        In the 1950's, the raspy-voiced Mr. da Silva began performing professionally for radio programs and in nightclubs, but he did not record his first single until 1969. In 1975, at the age of 48, he finally released his first full album, ''O Rei do Coco'' (''The King of Coco,'' referring to a traditional dance style from northeastern Brazil). He went on to record 27 more albums, with titles like ''Produto do Morro'' (''Product of the Shantytown''), ''Violência Gera Violência'' (''Violence Breeds Violence'') and ''Eu Não Sou Santo'' (''I'm No Saint''). In 1995, with Moreira da Silva and Dicró, fellow samba musicians, he made ''Os Três Malandros -- In Concert,'' a parody of the Three Tenors. Three years ago, Mr. da Silva took his fans by surprise when he became an evangelical Christian. But he continued to sing the controversial lyrics that had made him famous, performing for sold-out crowds until a few months before he was hospitalized.
        José Bezerra da Silva is survived by his wife, Regina de Oliveira, and three sons from two previous relationships: Thalamy, Ulyssis and Leonardo, all of Rio.
      