
        Daniel P. Weadock, who rose from an accounts payable clerk at the ITT Corporation to lead its Sheraton hotels unit, died on Tuesday at a Boston hospital of injuries from an automobile accident in Maine. He was 66 and made his home in Concord, Mass.
        Nadeen N. Ayala, a spokeswoman for Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, which acquired ITT's gambling and hotel operations in 1998, said the car crash occurred on Sunday.
        Mr. Weadock (pronounced WEED-ahk), who joined ITT during its heyday as a conglomerate under Harold Geneen, rose steadily up the executive ladder of the fast-evolving company. But even as it steadily shed huge chunks of its vast and varied holdings, from Avis to Wonder Bread, ITT retained the Sheraton chain.
        At the time of Starwood's takeover, Mr. Weadock was president and chief executive of Sheraton, which owned, leased, operated or franchised 450 hotels in 62 countries. After Starwood rewarded him with a severance package that published reports estimated at $2.7 million, he stayed on as a special assistant to Barry S. Sternlicht, the chairman of Starwood. With the Sheraton acquisition, Starwood became one of the world's largest hotel companies.
        Under Mr. Weadock's direction, Sheraton's success made it an attractive target for a takeover, a battle Starwood won only after a frantic fight with Hilton.
        In Mr. Weadock's five years at the helm, Sheraton grew fivefold by adding new hotels around the globe while jettisoning nearly 200 poor-performing properties. He also sharpened service and added myriad little touches like making Starbucks the house coffee and Mondavi the house wine.
        In recent years, Mr. Weadock pursued real estate interests, including the purchase and development of the International Golf Club in Bolton, Mass., which had long been owned by ITT and was considered the company playground.
        Daniel Peter Weadock was born in Brooklyn on June 21, 1939, and grew up in the borough's Park Slope section. He graduated from Fordham University with a business degree after six years of night courses.
        He joined ITT in 1961 while attending Fordham and worked his way up to become an assistant to the office of the president in 1968, the year ITT acquired Sheraton, a hotel chain that began in Boston in 1937.
        In 1975, he became ITT's director of operations for Africa and the Middle East in Brussels. Four years later, he was named president of that group and an ITT vice president. He then worked at a succession of ever-higher executive positions in Europe.
        In 1987, he returned to New York to be chairman, president and chief executive of the ITT unit that printed telephone directories in foreign countries and ran educational institutes in the United States.
        Mr. Weadock is survived by his wife of 45 years, Florence; his sons Kevin and Bryan, of Manhattan, and Daniel, of Bolton, Mass.; and his daughter, Ann Weadock-Specht, of Carlisle, Mass.
      