
        Harold W. Stevenson, a psychologist specializing in child development who produced the first comprehensive study highlighting the difference between the academic achievement of American children and children overseas, particularly in Japan and Taiwan, died on July 8 at a hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 80 and until recently had made his home in Ann Arbor, where he was an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Michigan.
        His death followed a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Stevenson's work gained attention in the 1980's with surveys he directed for the Center for Human Growth and Development at the university. The first, released in 1984, found that American schoolchildren lagged in reading, and even more so in mathematics, virtually from the day they entered school; the second, in 1987, sounded the same note for those in the upper grades.
        The 1984 report involved the first large cross-cultural survey of school achievement in the early grades. It was also the first at any grade level to elaborate on standardized tests by interviewing teachers and parents who were observing what went on in classrooms.
        The survey, conducted with grants from the National Institute of Mental Health, compared American pupils with their peers in Japan and Taiwan after 1,440 first and fifth graders in the three countries had been tested and observed. The report found that American pupils scored low for reasons like doing less homework, spending fewer hours in school studying and, when in class, tending to engage in ''academically irrelevant'' behavior -- whispering with classmates or wandering around the room.
        Despite the lower scores, their mothers were found to be more satisfied with the schools than were the parents in Japan and Taiwan, who were keener on making their children do homework and excel in learning.
        The principal conclusion of the second report, in 1987, was that the mathematical ability found in American primary and high school students was ''among the lowest of any industrialized country.'' That report was done for the Mathematical Sciences Education Board of the National Research Council, the principal research arm of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Harold William Stevenson was born in Dines, Wyo., a coal-mining town with a one-room schoolhouse. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Colorado in 1947 after wartime service in the Navy, which taught him Japanese.
        He received a master's degree in psychology at Stanford and his Ph. D. there in 1951 while teaching psychology at Pomona College. Early in his career, he started writing articles about children's cognitive development and academic achievement, and founded several nursery schools as training grounds for graduate students of psychology and education.
        He directed the Institute of Child Development at the University of Minnesota from 1959 until he joined the University of Michigan in 1971 as a professor of psychology. He headed the child development and social policy program at Michigan from 1978 to 1993 and retired as professor emeritus in 2001.
        Dr. Stevenson was an author, with James W. Stigler, of ''The Learning Gap: Why Our Schools Are Failing and What We Can Learn From Japanese and Chinese Education'' (Summit Books, 1992), which remains in print in a 1994 edition from Simon & Schuster.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Nancy; three daughters, Margaret Stevenson of Palo Alto, Janet B. Zimmerman of Plymouth, Mich., and Patricia A. Stevenson of Chicago; a son, Andrew, of Charlottesville, Va.; a brother, Robert E., of Post Falls, Idaho; and seven grandchildren.
      