
        Obie Benson, an original member of the Motown singing group the Four Tops and a lyricist best known for the antiwar song ''What's Goin' On,'' died here this morning. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Matt Lee, the group's publicist. Doctors discovered cancer a few weeks ago during surgery to amputate one of Mr. Benson's legs, Mr. Lee said. He also had a heart attack during the surgery.
        Born in Detroit in 1936, Mr. Benson, whose real first name was Renaldo, formed the group that became the Four Tops with four fellow high school students -- Levi Stubbs, Abdul (Duke) Fakir and Lawrence Payton -- in 1954. The quartet stayed together for 43 years, until Mr. Payton's death in 1997. Mr. Stubbs, who suffered a series of illnesses, left the group in 2000.
        But the Tops continued to perform. The group celebrated its 50th anniversary last year with two replacement Tops, Ronnie McNair and Theo Peoples, performing alongside Mr. Benson and Mr. Fakir.
        Perennially popular in Las Vegas, the group is scheduled to perform this Saturday night at the Belleayre Music Festival in Highmount, N.Y., with the Temptations, in a show billed as ''Motown Royalty.''
        Mr. Benson, a bass, joined Mr. Fakir and Mr. Payton in singing harmony behind the emotion-charged solos of Mr. Stubbs. The four were always identically dressed, and their act featured crisp choreography
        ''They were the group you aspired to be like,'' said Lamont Dozier, co-writer of many of the Tops' biggest hits.
        But success was initially elusive. The group, which began life as the Four Aims, spent nearly a decade singing in New York jazz clubs and performing with the balladeer Billy Eckstein and the Count Basie orchestra.
        Their break came with a 1963 appearance on the ''Tonight'' show, when they sang a jazz arrangement of ''In the Still of the Night.''
        The founder of Motown Records, Berry Gordy, saw the Tops on the show and signed them to a recording contract. A string of hits followed, beginning with ''Baby, I Need Your Lovin''' in 1964. Other hits included ''Standing in the Shadows of Love,'' ''Bernadette'' and ''Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie, Honey Bunch).''
        Like the rest of Motown's acts, the Four Tops toured widely in Europe and Asia, developing a big following in Britain. But they split with Motown in 1972, when Mr. Gordy moved the company to Los Angeles. While they had a few more top-selling records, the Tops' last hit was ''Indestructible,'' which reached No. 35 on the pop charts in 1988.
        But they still drew crowds at venues like the Apollo Theater in Harlem, where they performed in March. They made their first appearance this year on ''Late Show With David Letterman,'' performing their 1966 hit ''Reach Out (I'll Be There).''
        Clearly excited during the song, Mr. Benson uncharacteristically fell out of step with the other Tops, then warmly greeted Mr. Letterman when he came over to congratulate the group.
        ''He enjoyed every moment,'' Mr. Fakir said today of Mr. Benson. Mr. Peoples, who joined the group in 1998, described Mr. Benson as ''a live wire'' who taught him the Tops' dance routines after he stepped in for Mr. Payton.
        But Mr. Benson had a more serious side. One afternoon in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco, he was sitting with a friend, enjoying the street life. He was stunned when police descended on a crowd of hippies, pummeling them for no apparent reason, Mr. Benson recalled in an interview last year.
        Returning to Detroit, Mr. Benson wrote the lyrics for what became the protest song ''What's Goin' On.'' Knowing the tune did not fit the Tops' upbeat style, he offered it to Marvin Gaye, who embraced it despite the initial objections of Mr. Gordy, who doubted the tune would sell, Mr. Benson said.
        Mr. Benson, who was divorced, is survived by two daughters, Ebony and Toby.
        Correction:  July 6, 2005, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Obie Benson, an original member of the Motown singing group the Four Tops, misstated the number of fellow high school students with whom he formed the group. It was three, not four.
      