
        Dr. Morris Simon, a Harvard radiologist and medical innovator who developed a widely used flexible filter to catch and dissolve clots in the bloodstream, died on Monday outside his home in Boston. He was 79.
        Dr. Simon had a history of heart problems, and the cause was apparently cardiac arrest, said a son, Jason Simon of Manhattan.
        In developing his device, the Simon nitinol vena cava filter, Dr. Simon began research in the 1960's with an untested metal alloy of nickel and titanium. The alloy, called nitinol, had been created for military and aerospace applications, and it could be manipulated to change shape at different temperatures.
        In its colder and compact form, Dr. Simon's filter is inserted into a patient through a catheter, then expands to full size when warmed by the patient's body. The filter locks in place near the heart, acting as a sieve to stop blood clots from traveling toward the lungs. The device entered clinical testing in the 1980's, was approved and remains in use today.
        Dr. Herbert Y. Kressel, a professor of radiology at Harvard, said that Dr. Simon ''pioneered the medical use of nitinol'' and that his work demonstrated ''an incredible breadth of creativity.''
        Dr. Simon's other medical innovations, Dr. Kressel said, included work on a second blood filter that is intended to be removable, a computerized record system for radiology patients, a type of biopsy needle, a guided catheter and a semiautomated system for providing accurate doses of medications to elderly patients.
        Dr. Simon was born in Johannesburg and became an American citizen in 1963. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Witwatersrand University in South Africa before training at the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons in London.
        In 1958, he became an assistant in radiology at the Harvard Medical School and remained there for four decades, retiring as a professor of radiology emeritus in 1997. Dr. Simon also held appointments at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, now the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, where he was radiologist in chief and director of clinical radiology.
        Dr. Simon is survived by his wife of 55 years, Josephine. In addition to his son Jason, he is survived by three other sons, Daniel, of Manhattan; Adam, of Brooklyn; and Mark, of Washington.
      