
        Gavin Lambert, an incisive observer of life in Hollywood through his screenplays, novels and film histories, died on Sunday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 80.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Mart Crowley, the executor of his estate.
        Mr. Lambert's fiction and nonfiction speak candidly about the realities of Hollywood stardom and about the potentially destructive effects of the industry's harsh demands on artistry. His sharp and often droll insights are evident in an acclaimed book of short stories about Hollywood, ''The Slide Area: Scenes of Hollywood Life,'' first published in 1959; in his novel ''Inside Daisy Clover,'' which he adapted for the screen for Natalie Wood; and in a 2004 biography, ''Natalie Wood: A Life.''
        Mr. Lambert became part of a close-knit circle of Hollywood stars and literary and artistic figures. In addition to Wood, his friends included George Cukor, Leslie Caron, Tennessee Williams and David Hockney. The writer and composer Paul Bowles became a friend in Tangier, where Mr. Lambert spent half of each year from 1973 to 1990.
        Born on July 23, 1924, in Sussex, England, Mr. Lambert was educated at St. George's School and Cheltenham College before studying English literature at Magdalen College at Oxford University. He left Oxford after a year when he was told he would have to learn medieval English to earn a degree.
        Mr. Lambert's first job was writing scripts for two-minute commercials shown in movie theaters; he was also writing film criticism and short stories. In 1948 he collaborated with Lindsay Anderson, a friend from Cheltenham, in founding an influential film journal, Sequence. That led to an offer from Sight and Sound, which he edited from 1950 to 1956.
        He moved to Hollywood in the late 1950's to be a screenwriter and personal assistant to the director Nicholas Ray. He was a writer on Ray's ''Bitter Victory,'' and Mr. Crowley said he also did uncredited work on two other Ray films, ''The True Story of Jesse James'' and ''Bigger Than Life.'' He became a United States citizen in 1964.
        Mr. Lambert's adaptation (with T.E.B. Clarke) of D.H. Lawrence's ''Sons and Lovers'' (1960) was nominated for an Oscar. The next year Tennessee Williams asked him to adapt ''The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone.''
        Mr. Lambert's screenplay adaptation of ''I Never Promised You a Rose Garden'' (1977), written with Lewis John Carlino, was also nominated for an Academy Award.
        In 1990 Mr. Lambert returned to Los Angeles to live full time and turned to writing biographies of film and theater artists, including two actresses who were famous in their time but whose place in film history had since been obscured.
        In ''Nazimova,'' he explored the life of Alla Nazimova, a Russian immigrant and a star of stage and silent films, and in ''Norma Shearer,'' he chronicled the life of one of Hollywood's biggest stars in the 1920's and 30's, one who was intimately connected with the studio power structure.
        Mr. Lambert was openly gay ''but never militant,'' as he described himself. He wrote revealingly about his homosexuality in ''Mainly About Lindsay Anderson'' (2000), a combination biography and memoir that was nominally about Anderson, the British film and theater director who was Mr. Lambert's lifelong friend.
        He is survived by a brother, Denys M. Lambert.
      