
        John Seitz, a mainstay of the Off Broadway stage for 40 years, died on July 4 at an assisted-living residence in Baltimore. He was 67 and had lived most of his life in Manhattan.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Becca Seitz.
        A physically commanding presence, Mr. Seitz often portrayed father figures, businessmen and recognizable society types.
        He won two Obie Awards for his performances as an emotionally vested husband of a child bride in Maria Irene Fornes's ''Abingdon Square'' (1988) and as a television talk show host in Carl Hancock Rux's ''Talk'' (2001), a play in the form of an academic panel on the life and intentions of a dead fictional poet. He appeared on Broadway in Harold Pinter's ''No Man's Land'' and in Victor Gialanella's ''Frankenstein.''
        He also appeared as Shylock, opposite Sigourney Weaver, in ''The Merchant of Venice.''
        Other Off Broadway credits include the Public Theater's ''Machinal''; ''Casanova''; the title role in Richard Foreman's adaptation of Molière's ''Don Juan''; a production of Gorky's ''Barbarians'' by the Brooklyn Academy of Music's repertory theater company; Samuel Beckett's ''Endgame''; and Sam Shepard's ''Fool for Love.''
        He received the New Dramatists' Charles Bowden Award in 1997 and the Spencer Cherashore award in 2002. He spent more than 20 seasons at the Eugene O'Neill National Playwrights Conference and was a founding member of the Actors Theater of Louisville, Ky.
        Mr. Seitz was born in Louisville, on Nov. 16, 1937, the son of a pharmacist who had hoped his son would take over the business. Instead, Mr. Seitz, who had acted during high school, moved to New York in his early 20's to enter the theater.
        His marriage to Patricia Seitz ended in divorce. Besides his daughter and a granddaughter, of Baltimore, he is survived by his companion, Toni Wisti, a dancer, of Brooklyn; and two sisters, Lillie Hutto of Spring Hill, Fla., and Nora Manning of Louisville.
      