
        Dr. Irwin M. Freedberg, a dermatologist and an influential educator at New York University who led national medical organizations and advanced the study of the genetic foundation of the skin, hair and nails, died on Sunday at N.Y.U. Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Dr. Freedberg was chairman of N.Y.U.'s dermatology department from 1981 until he stepped down last month.
        A physician-scientist, Dr. Freedberg studied the protein keratin, the principal component of hair, nails and skin. It helps to form tissue that eventually dies and migrates to the skin's outermost layer, the epidermis, to become a protective barrier.
        Dr. Howard P. Baden, a professor of dermatology at Harvard Medical School, said that Dr. Freedberg, beginning in the 1960's, examined ''the protein and its functions in living tissue, the orderly conversion to dead cells, and then helped to describe the genes involved in that process.''
        Dr. Freedberg also studied keratinocytes, the most common cells in the epidermis. An overabundance of these cells can lead to psoriasis.
        Irwin Mark Freedberg was born in Brookline, Mass. He received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth and a medical degree from Harvard in 1956. He taught at Harvard from 1962 to 1977, ultimately as a professor of dermatology. He then moved to Johns Hopkins, where he was director of the department of dermatology until 1981.
        Dr. Freedberg was named president of the American Dermatologic Association in 1997. He was a former president of the Association of Professors of Dermatology and of the American Board of Dermatology.
        He was the former editor in chief of The Journal of Investigative Dermatology. He also was a co-editor for several editions of ''Fitzpatrick's Dermatology in General Medicine,'' a textbook considered to be a standard in the field. In 1995, he was elected to the National Academy of Science's Institute of Medicine.
        Dr. Freedberg is survived by his wife of 51 years, the former Irene Lisman. The couple lived in Manhattan and in Holderness, N.H.
        He is also survived by a son, Dr. Kenneth Freedberg, an internist, of Weston, Mass.; two daughters, Marjorie Bogdanow of Lexington, Mass., and Deborah Freedberg of Portland, Ore.; and seven grandchildren.
      