
        Jim Parker, who was the first full-time offensive lineman elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame and is widely regarded as the best offensive lineman ever, died Monday at a nursing home in Columbia, Md. He was 71.
        The cause was congestive heart failure and chronic kidney disease, his son David said.
        Parker played 11 seasons (1957 to 1967) with the Baltimore Colts: five and a half as left tackle, then five and a half as left guard. Sometimes, he would be so wound up before a game that he would break out in a rash.
        In the pre-Super Bowl years, he helped the Colts win National Football League championships in 1958 and 1959, each time beating the Giants. In 1973, the first year he was eligible, he was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
        At 6 feet 3 inches and 275 pounds, with a 20-inch neck, Parker was a superb blocker with quick feet. He was named to the All-Pro team and the Pro Bowl for eight consecutive years. In his first 10 seasons, he did not miss a game.
        His main job was to protect the Colts' quarterback, Johnny Unitas. As Parker once recalled: ''It didn't take me long to learn the one big rule. Just keep them away from John. I remember Coach Weeb Ewbank telling me my first summer in camp, 'You can be the most unpopular man on the team if the quarterback gets hurt.' How could I ever forget that?''
        He never did. Andy Robustelli, the Giants' Hall of Fame defensive end, once told Sport magazine: ''I used to think there wasn't a big tackle I could outmaneuver, but Parker could move with me. He was just too strong and too good and too smart.''
        When Bubba Smith, a heralded defensive end, joined the Colts in the spring of 1967, Parker gave him a one-on-one workout. Although Parker was near retirement because of arthritic knees, Smith was overwhelmed by what happened.
        ''I thought I was quick,'' Smith said, ''but that old man put me down bing-bing-bing.''
        James Thomas Parker was born April 3, 1934, in Macon, Ga., and graduated from high school in Toledo, Ohio. At Ohio State, under Coach Woody Hayes, he was twice an all-American and won the 1956 Outland Trophy as college football's outstanding lineman. He also earned a bachelor's degree in physical education.
        He became the Colts' No. 1 draft choice that year and signed a two-year contract for $12,500 a year. He also received a $1,500 signing bonus paid in $1 bills.
        In 1994, he told Sports Illustrated: ''Guard was fun, seeing those defensive backs out there not being able to get out of the way. It was a train hitting a Volkswagen. You'd mow them down.
        ''But left tackle was my home, the only job in 60 years that I really mastered. It broke up my marriage. Instead of spending time with my family, I was putting time in down in the basement, looking at films of defensive ends.''
        That marriage ended in divorce. Parker is survived by his third wife, the former Esther Hester; five sons, Jimi of Reisterstown, Md., David of Owings Mills, Md., Brian of Randallstown, Md., Ernest of Baltimore and Anwar of Catonsville, Md.; eight daughters, Pam Stewart, Sheri and Diane of Woodlawn, Md., Tina Nelson of Baltimore, Miasha of Catonsville, Md., Christian of Columbia, Md., Candace of New Jersey and Deborah Graves of Dumfries, Va.; two brothers, Charlie Jr. of California and Ernest of Chicago; a sister, Betty Williams of Michigan; 23 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
        Parker lived in Columbia, a suburb of Baltimore. For 35 years, he owned a liquor store in Baltimore and often worked long hours there until he closed it in 1999.
        Until Unitas died in 2002, he and Parker formed a mutual admiration society.
        ''He has this immense pride,'' Unitas once said. ''You just know he's going to do a job for you.''
        Parker explained it this way:
        ''We're just the bread. He's the butter. Look, if I break my arm, I can still play. If he breaks his, we're dead. So I got to feel like if anybody's arm gets broken, it had better be mine.''
      