
        Alex Shibicky, who was a mainstay of the Rangers team that won the 1940 Stanley Cup and is believed to be the first player to use a slap shot in a National Hockey League game, died July 9 in South Surrey, British Columbia. He was 91 and lived in Surrey.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife of 54 years, the former Gloria Aspinall.
        Shibicky was the last surviving member of the so-called Bread Line, which was given that name because sportswriters of the day called its three players the bread and butter of the Rangers. The other members of the line were Neil Colville, the center, who died in 1987, and his brother Mac Colville, the right wing, who died in 2003.
        Only three players from that Stanley Cup championship team survive: Clint Smith, 91; Wilbert Hiller, 90; and Alf Pike, 87. That club was the last Rangers team to win the Stanley Cup until 1994.
        On a team on which the players often shifted from left to right, Shibicky, at 6 feet and 180 pounds, was primarily a left wing. In an era noted for defense, he played his entire N.H.L. career with the Rangers, scoring 110 goals and 91 assists over eight seasons.
        The highlights of his career were when the Rangers split the first four games of the 1940 Stanley Cup finals against the Toronto Maple Leafs, then won the next two games and the championship. Shibicky played those last two games on a broken right ankle.
        ''We had the best skating team,'' he was quoted as saying by The Chicago Tribune last year. ''We had the best fundamental team. When you're like that, you're loose as a goose. You play a lot better. You think a lot better. We scored goals that you don't even dream about on our line.''
        For winning the Cup, each Rangers player received a $500 bonus and a watch fob worth about $30. At a 1990 reunion celebrating the 50th anniversary of that triumph, the Rangers gave the surviving players Stanley Cup rings.
        As a young player with the Rangers, Shibicky would watch in practice as a teammate, Bun Cook, used a revolutionary slap shot, an explosive shot with a short backswing. Shibicky started using it in games, long before future N.H.L. stars like Bernie Geoffrion and Bobby Hull made it famous.
        Shibicky, describing the shot, said: ''It's just like a bullet. Then, when you follow through, it's the most beautiful shot you'd ever want to see.''
        Alex Shibicky was born May 19, 1914, in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He and the Colvilles were teenagers when the Rangers signed them and sent them to the Brooklyn Crescents of the Eastern Hockey League.
        That club became the New York Rovers, an amateur team that played its home games at Madison Square Garden on Sunday afternoons before Rangers games Sunday nights. Later, the Rangers sent the three young players to their main farm team, the Philadelphia Ramblers.
        The Rangers called them up in 1935. They shared an apartment and played together until 1942, when they enlisted together in the Canadian Army. After military service, they returned to the Rangers, but Shibicky played only one more season before a back injury ended his playing career in 1946.
        Shibicky later coached minor league hockey, taught at hockey schools and invested in a restaurant chain and, with the Colville brothers, in an 1,100-acre grain farm near Winnipeg. He and the Colvilles often took golf and fishing trips.
        Shibicky is survived by his wife; two sons, Alex Jr., of Chicago, and Bill, of Mission, British Columbia; three daughters, Kathy Haskell of Sun Valley, Idaho; Lori, of White Rock, British Columbia, and Nancy Fast of Mission; and six grandchildren.
        In his later years, Shibicky lost patience watching the modern game of hockey on television. ''I sit and watch, and after a period and a half I fold up and go to bed,'' he told The Chicago Tribune. ''All the hooking and spearing and stuff that goes on, those things are killing the game.''
      