
        Blue Barron, one of the last surviving leaders of the sweet bands that rivaled the popularity of the hot bands of the swing era, died last Saturday in Baltimore. He was 91.
        He died in his sleep, his sister, Clarisse B. Mechanic, told The Baltimore Sun.
        The Blue Barron orchestra played at the Edison Hotel in New York in the 1940's but was heard coast to coast on radio. Christopher Popa, a Chicago music librarian who operates the Web site bigbandlibrary.com, said that Blue Barron, who was born Harry Freidman, ''was more of a businessman than a musician,'' but featuring a sound that mimicked that of Kay Kyser and Sammy Kaye, ''he made a lot of people happy with his music for dancing and on the radio.''
        The band recorded songs like ''At a Perfume Counter'' (1938), but had its biggest hit in 1949 with ''Cruisin' Down the River.'' The band's theme song was ''Sometimes I'm Happy'' (1940). From 1936 to 1941, Russ Carlyle was the featured vocalist; he was followed by Clyde Burke and then Jimmy Brown.
        In an interview with Mr. Popa, Mr. Carlyle described one of the band's crowd-pleasing gimmicks: ''We introduced the song by singing an old song that had something to do with the number we were going to play.'' This gave rise to the band's slogan, ''music of yesterday and today, styled the Blue Barron way.''
        In an article in The New York Times in 1982 about recordings from radio transcription disks of an earlier era, the jazz critic John S. Wilson said that ''despite its reputation as a Mickey Mouse band,'' the Blue Barron orchestra ''was not quite as wooden as one might expect. It has occasional broad and brassy moments, but there is still so much moaning among the saxophones and the trombones that one keeps hoping somebody will milk them.''
        Mr. Freidman formed an orchestra in 1936 and took the name Blue Barron after briefly managing the band of the young Sammy Kaye. In 1938, the band was brought to New York by a hotel owner, Maria Kramer, whose business strategies included hiring lesser-known bands, paying radio networks low rates to get those bands on nationwide hookups and then drawing guests because of the publicity. The Blue Barron orchestra stayed at the Edison Hotel throughout the 1940's and also played on the road and appeared in the movie shorts ''Melody Master: Blue Barron and His Orchestra (1939),'' ''Paramount Headliner: Blue Barron and His Orchestra'' (1940) and ''Blue Barron and His Orchestra (1952).''
        Harry Freidman was born on Nov. 19, 1913, in Cleveland, according to Mr. Popa's Web site. (Musical references give differing spellings for his name, including Freedlin, but Mr. Popa said that he had corresponded with a niece of the bandleader and believes the spelling Freidman is correct.) He attended Ohio State University in Athens and was a private in the United States Army in World War II. Despite the decline in popularity of bands both sweet and hot, he was able to keep his orchestra going until 1956. He moved to Baltimore, where he became involved in real estate management.
        Mr. Barron is survived by his sister, Mrs. Mechanic, of Baltimore.
        Correction:  July 27, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Blue Barron, a band leader in the swing era, misidentified the university he attended. It was Ohio University in Athens, Ohio -- not Ohio State, in Columbus.
      