
        David Daiches, who was an authority on Scotch whiskey as well as Scottish and English literature, died on July 15 in Edinburgh. He was 92.
        A prolific literary biographer, historian, essayist, critic and poet, he was a former director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities at Edinburgh University and a professor emeritus and former dean of the School of English Studies at the University of Sussex.
        ''Scotch Whisky: Its Past and Present,'' his loving tribute and connoisseur's guide to Scotland's native distillate, is considered a standard reference work on the subject.
        He was known in America for his books on writers, notably Robert Burns. He also wrote a Baedeker-style guide to his adopted hometown, ''Edinburgh'' (1978), and companion volumes like ''Glasgow'' (1977) and ''Literary Landscapes of the British Isles: A Narrative Atlas'' (1979), which he compiled with John Flowers.
        Several of his books were recently reprinted, including ''Bonnie Prince Charlie'' from Penguin in 2002 (previously titled ''The Last Stuart: The Life and Times of Bonnie Prince Charlie''); and three books revived by Textbook Publishers, ''The Novel and the Modern World'' (first published in 1939, but updated since); ''Critical Approaches to Literature'' and ''Literary Essays.''
        ''Two Worlds: An Edinburgh Jewish Childhood,'' an autobiography first published in 1956, remains in print.
        David Daiches was born in Sunderland, in northern England, in 1912, and grew up in Edinburgh, where his father held a post equivalent to that of chief rabbi of Scotland. He attended the University of Edinburgh almost entirely on academic scholarships. He received his M.A. with first-class honors in 1934 and a doctorate from Balliol College, Oxford, in 1939.
        He became a professor of English literature at the University of Chicago that year, but left during World War II to work for the British Information Service in New York and, later, as a second secretary in the British Embassy in Washington.
        He frequently returned to this country to teach or lecture at Cornell, Indiana University and the University of Cincinnati, among others.
        He joined the new Sussex University in the early 1960's, teaching and serving as dean of English studies. He also published a second autobiographical work, ''A Third World'' (1971).
        In 1980 he returned to Edinburgh to direct the Institute for Advanced Studies. He retired in 1986. His books since then were ''A Wee Dram'' (1990) and '''A Weekly Scotsman' and Other Poems'' (1994).
        Professor Daiches's first wife, Isobel Mackay Daiches, died in 1977. The following year he married Hazel Newman Neville, who died in 1986. The Scotsman listed a son and two daughters from his first marriage as his survivors.
      