
        Eugene Record, the leader of the 1970's harmony group the Chi-Lites, which scored hits with mellifluous soul ballads like ''Oh Girl'' and ''Have You Seen Her?,'' died yesterday. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, Jack Bart, the president of the group's booking agency, told The Associated Press. The place of death was not announced.
        With smooth, yearning vocals and streamlined arrangements, the Chi-Lites, named after the group's hometown, Chicago, mingled sentimental street-corner doo-wop with the sounds of Motown and funk to create a sleek new soul style in the early 70's. ''Oh Girl'' became a No. 1 hit in 1972, and 11 of the group's songs reached the Top 20 on the R&B charts from 1969 to 1974.
        Mr. Record wrote or helped to write many of the group's most popular songs and frequently sang the lead as well, in a velvety and often melancholic tenor. He sometimes sang in a euphoric falsetto, as he did in ''Stoned Out of My Mind,'' which he wrote with his former wife and songwriting partner, Barbara Acklin.
        Another device favored by Mr. Record was the pensive spoken verse, which he used in ''Have You Seen Her?'' and ''A Letter to Myself.''
        The Chi-Lites' biggest hits have remained radio staples for decades, and the group's songs have frequently been covered by other performers. In 1990 MC Hammer recorded a popular version of ''Have You Seen Her?,'' and in 2003 Beyoncé Knowles's song ''Crazy in Love,'' a blockbuster hit, sampled the horn fanfare in ''Are You My Woman? (Tell Me So),'' a Chi-Lites song written by Mr. Record. When ''Crazy in Love'' won a Grammy Award for best R&B song, the prize was shared by Mr. Record; Ms. Knowles; her producer, Rich Harrison; and Shawn Carter, better known as Jay-Z, who contributed a rap.
        The Chi-Lites' origins were in the late-50's doo-wop era. Mr. Record formed the Chanteurs with Robert Lester and Clarence Johnson, and released a single in 1959. The next year Creadel Jones and Marshall Thompson joined them, and the group became the Hi-Lites, changing its name to the Chi-Lites in 1964.
        The group signed with the Brunswick label in 1968, and began to taste success that year with the song ''Give It Away,'' which reached No. 10 on the R&B charts. But it was a string of hits in the early 70's that established the group's reputation. In addition to its breezy and romantic ballads, the Chi-Lites had a handful of stern political songs, including ''(For God's Sake) Give More Power to the People,'' ''There Will Never Be Any Peace (Until God Is Seated at the Conference Table),'' both written by Mr. Record.
        Mr. Record left the group in 1976 and released three solo albums on Warner Brothers. He rejoined the Chi-Lites in 1980, and the group had two more minor hits on Mr. Record's label, Chi-Sound, ''Hot on a Thing (Called Love)'' and ''Bottom's Up.'' The group has continued in various permutations since the mid-1980's, and Mr. Record performed with it in ''Only the Strong Survive,'' a 2002 documentary of 1960's and 70's soul stars that was directed by Chris Hegedus and D.A. Pennebaker.
        His survivors include his wife, Jackie.
      