
        Warren Spears, a dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and a modern-dance choreographer, died on Jan. 8 in Copenhagen. He was 50 and lived in Copenhagen.
        The cause was effects of treatment for multiple myeloma, said Rima Vargas-Vetter, a longtime friend.
        Mr. Spears was born in Detroit and studied dance there as a child. He came to New York to train in the Dance Division of the Juilliard School, and having promised his mother that he would graduate, he said he would have to call her when Ailey spotted him in a class and invited him to join his company. Mr. Spears danced with the Ailey troupe from 1974 to 1977, when he left to devote more time to choreography.
        Mr. Spears created several dances for the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company in Ohio, including ''On the Wings of Angels,'' a segment in the company's ''Flight Project,'' a 2003 tribute to the Wright Brothers. The piece, critically praised for its evocation of wartime camaraderie and courage, was his tribute to the Tuskegee Airmen, a group of black fliers in World War II. He also created dances -- notable for their imaginative use of stage space -- for his own New York-based company, the Spears Collection, and for the Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble, the junior Ailey troupe. He also performed with the Joyce Trisler Danscompany in the early 1980's, and in companies throughout Europe.
        Mr. Spears made a new life for himself in Denmark in the early 1980's. He was a founder of the New Danish Dance Theater in 1983, leaving it in 1998. He was knighted by Queen Margrethe of Denmark, receiving the Order of Dannebrog in 2003, for his services to Danish dance.
        Mr. Spears is survived by Karsten Mach, whom he married in Denmark, where same-sex marriage with full rights is legal, and by his stepsons Flemming and David, all of Copenhagen; his parents, Walter and Theresa Spears of Detroit; and a brother, Dr. Walter Spears of Altadena, Calif.
        Correction:  January 28, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Sunday about Warren Spears, a dancer and choreographer, referred incorrectly to his relationship with Karsten Mach and misstated the law on same-sex unions in Denmark, where they lived. They were registered partners; Denmark does not allow same-sex marriages.
      