
        Alain Bombard, who deliberately drifted across the Atlantic for 65 days in a lifeboat with no provisions -- subsisting on plankton, saltwater and raw fish -- to prove it was possible, died on July 19 at a hospital in Toulon, France. He was 80.
        His death was reported by French, English and American news agencies, none of which gave a cause.
        Dr. Bombard became an instant legend in France in 1952 when he drifted from the Canary Islands to Barbados in a small rubber boat. He joined a long list of Frenchmen who have performed seemingly silly feats at great hardship and, often, immense risk.
        French adventurers were the first to traverse Niagara Falls on a tightrope, walk from Paris to Moscow on stilts and row across the Pacific Ocean. When a Frenchman, Guy Delage, swam across the Atlantic in 1995, journalists turned to Dr. Bombard for comment. ''I will certainly refrain from tearing Guy Delage apart, since people made fun of me,'' Dr. Bombard said in an interview with The New York Times.
        Dr. Bombard was born in Paris on Oct. 27, 1924, and became a medical doctor. Time magazine reported that he became interested in survival techniques in 1951 when he was rescued during an unsuccessful attempt to swim the English Channel. He and a friend made do with a half-kilogram of butter for five days.
        Dr. Bombard went to an oceanographic institute in Monte Carlo to develop ways for people lost in small boats to survive on even less. He concluded that drinking limited quantities of seawater and fluids pressed from raw fish, and eating fish and plankton would do the job.
        After getting married on July 15, 1952, to Ginette Brunon, with whom he eventually had five children, he began his journey in Monaco. Emergency provisions were loaded onto the 15-foot-long, 6-foot-wide rubber boat, but a notary sealed them so it would be obvious if Dr. Bombard used them. The seal was reported to be still affixed at journey's end.
        He went first to Tangiers, then Casablanca, hoping a friend would join him. The friend called him to say ''family circumstances'' prevented him from making the trip. Another companion had already dropped out.
        Dr. Bombard floated away on the craft he had named l'Hérétique (the Heretic) on Aug. 25, 1952. After arriving in Las Palmas in the Canary Islands, he flew to Paris to see his wife and newborn daughter.
        He returned to Las Palmas and on Oct. 19, hoisted his small, triangular sail and drifted into the Atlantic. He encountered storms, and weeks of dead-calm seas. When he encountered a tanker, he found that he was 600 miles off course. The mix of raw fish and plankton, which he first thought tasted a bit like lobster purée, grew tiresome.
        He told Life magazine that it added up to ''a starving, thirsty hell.'' He became something of a hero in France, where he became a spokesman for the Bombard line of lifeboats, secretary of state for the environment for a month in 1981 and a deputy representing France at the European Parliament for 15 years.
        It was a German doctor, Dr. Hans Lindemann, who some think took wind out of Dr. Bombard's sail.
        Dr. Lindemann became fascinated by Dr. Bombard's survival ideas and tried to survive two short voyages drinking saltwater. His feet and legs swelled dangerously. Dr. Lindemann wrote a book, ''Alone at Sea'' (1958), in which he not only cast doubt on seawater's potability, but also charged that Dr. Bombard had cheated by sneaking provisions aboard.
        A New York Times reviewer in 1958 said he was not able to weigh Dr. Lindemann's scientific claims against those in Dr. Bombard's ''The Voyage of the Hérétique,'' published in the United States in 1954.
        The critic also expressed no opinion on what Dr. Lindemann, having ruled out sea water, drank on his own solo trans-Atlantic crossings, one in a dugout canoe and one in a kayak.
        Beer.
      