
        Glynn Ross, the founding general director of Seattle Opera, who established the company's tradition of performing Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, died on Thursday in Tucson. He was 90 and lived in Tucson and Seattle.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, the opera company announced.
        An enthusiastic and inventive promoter in a region with little history of opera, Mr. Ross was as well known for his adventurous productions as for his novel and unpretentious marketing schemes. He walked the streets with a Valkyrie and a giant, hired skywriters and made bumper stickers that said ''Get ahead with 'Salome.'''
        ''He was a huckster,'' said Speight Jenkins, Mr. Ross's successor at the company. ''He had the wildest ideas in the world to sell opera.''
        The ideas worked. Founded in 1963, Seattle Opera began to attract national attention by the end of the decade with a five-opera season and an operating budget of $1 million, raised during a recession in Seattle.
        But Mr. Ross, who since 1940 had staged operas in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia and elsewhere, had long wanted to present Wagner's ''Ring des Nibelungen,'' a daunting task even for an established company.
        Seattle Opera presented its first ''Ring'' in 1975 in the six-day cycle prescribed by Wagner. It had two casts, one singing in German, the other in English translation. The staging was naturalistic and simple, as much because of the limited budget as because of Mr. Ross's distaste for the high-modernist stagings that had become the norm in Bayreuth.
        Mr. Ross was born in Omaha to Scandinavian immigrant parents. He studied to be an actor in Boston and served in the Army during World War II. While stationed in Naples, he met his wife, Gio, and worked as a stage director at the Teatro San Carlo, becoming the first American to direct in a major Italian opera house.
        At Seattle Opera, he also presented the Who's ''Tommy,'' and the premieres of Thomas Pasatieri's ''Black Widow'' and Carlisle Floyd's ''Of Mice and Men.''
        He left the company in 1983 and moved to another region considered an opera frontier: Arizona, where he mounted two ''Ring'' cycles. He was also one of the founders of Opera America, a nonprofit group that assists opera companies.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by four children, Stephanie Rogers, of San Francisco; Claudia Ross-Kuhn, of Seattle; Tony Ross, of Des Moines; and Melanie Ross, of Seattle, the company manager of Seattle Opera; and seven grandchildren.
        Seattle Opera mounted the ''Ring'' cycle each summer from 1975 to 1984, and has done it less frequently -- but with bigger productions -- since Mr. Jenkins took over in 1984.
      