
        Brian C. Pohanka, whose passion for the Civil War led him to a prominent role in starting the recent movement to preserve Civil War battlefields, died on June 15 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 50.
        The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Marylynne, who is known as Cricket.
        In 1987, Mr. Pohanka, an enthusiastic, well-costumed re-enactor of battles, convened some of the first meetings of the Association for the Preservation of Civil War Sites, a group that became the Civil War Preservation Trust. It now has 70,000 members and has saved thousands of acres of former battlefields from development.
        ''Some kid a hundred years from now is going to get interested in the Civil War and want to see these places,'' Mr. Pohanka said in an interview with The Washington Post in 1990. ''He's going to go down there and be standing in a parking lot. I'm fighting for that kid.''
        Mr. Pohanka dressed the part, trimming his beard in what was known as the imperial style, popularized in the 1860's by the French emperor Napoleon III. As a captain of Company A of the Fifth New York Volunteer Infantry, one of many groups that re-enact Civil War battles and events, he also wore the colorful French-style uniforms of the dashing troops called Zouaves, even down to his underwear.
        Mr. Pohanka's involvement in Civil War history included writing dozens of books and articles, appearing on documentaries like ''Civil War Journal'' on the History Channel and advising makers of period movies.
        For ''Glory,'' a 1989 film that portrayed soldiers in the first black regiment in the Union Army, the 54th Massachusetts, Mr. Pohanka recruited and instructed actors portraying soldiers. For ''Cold Mountain,'' released in 2003, he used original drill manuals to teach Civil War tactics to about 1,000 Romanian soldiers hired as extras.
        The campaign to save Civil War battlefields began in earnest after the site of the Battle of Ox Hill in Fairfax County, Va., was developed commercially. The movement gathered momentum after Richard Gilder, a philanthropist, began to contribute money.
        One of Mr. Pohanka's main jobs in the effort was explicating the history of endangered battlefields.
        In the fight to save the site of the battle at Brandy Station in Culpeper County, Va., Mr. Pohanka repeatedly told the story of how the Confederate general J.E.B. Stuart almost lost to a smaller Union force there. General Stuart then embarked on a highly publicized raid through Pennsylvania on which he neglected his main mission, to act as a scout for Gen. Robert E. Lee's invading army. General Lee's loss at Gettysburg, the turning point of the war, followed.
        Brian Caldwell Pohanka was born in Washington on March 20, 1955. He liked to play with toy soldiers as a boy, and by the time he was 12, he was conducting research at the National Archives. He graduated from Sidwell Friends School, in Washington, and from Dickinson College, in Carlisle, Pa., where he majored in history.
        His writings, often done with others, included the text for a book of modern aerial photographs of Civil War battlefields, in which he approached the subject through the lives of two soldiers, one from the North and one from the South; the text for a book of maps about the war; and long profiles of individual soldiers. He was a researcher and writer for the Time-Life series of books on the war.
        He also wrote about the Zulu wars in South Africa and about the American West. One of the last books he edited was a compilation of the letters of Annie Roberts Yates, the widow of an officer killed with Gen. George A. Custer at the Battle of Little Big Horn.
        Mr. Pohanka met his wife at a Civil War re-enactment, where she was dressed in period costume. He is also survived by his father, John, of Washington; his brother, Geoffrey, of Vienna, Va., and his sister, Susan, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      