
        Al Held, an American painter widely recognized for his often immense geometric abstractions, died on Tuesday at his home in Todi, Italy. He was 76.
        He was found in his swimming pool, but his dealer, Betsy Wittenborn Miller of the Robert Miller Gallery in New York, said the cause of death had not been determined.
        During his five-decade career, Mr. Held concentrated on the formal properties of painting, but his work evolved in surprising ways from an aggressively materialist approach in the early years to the visionary geometric fantasies that he made from the late 1970's on.
        In the 50's, he created extremely thick, richly colored patchwork compositions. In the 60's, finessing the gap between Minimalism and Color Field painting, he produced smooth, simplified works based on enlarged letters of the alphabet. And in the late 60's and 70's he made complex black-and-white pictures of sharply outlined cubes, pyramids and other geometric shapes floating in illusory spaces of indeterminate depth.
        Mr. Held returned to color in the next decade and his pictures became more and more complex and expansive. Configurations of vibrantly colored and patterned grids, spheres, rings and columns harked back to the Italian Baroque -- the architectural fantasies of Piranesi, for example -- while suggesting a kind of futuristic techno-psychedelic experience.
        Many viewers wondered if he composed his late pictures using computer software, but he did not. He had assistants, but all his works were made painstakingly by hand.
        Alvin Jacob Held was born in Brooklyn on Oct. 12, 1928. After being asked to leave high school because of chronic truancy, he joined the United States Navy in 1945. Leaving the service two years later, he became friends with people interested in leftist politics and art, and in 1948 he began taking courses at the Art Students League.
        From 1950 to 1953, with money from the G.I. Bill of Rights, Mr. Held studied at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière in Paris, where the Russian-born sculptor Ossip Zadkine was one of his teachers. He had his first solo exhibition in 1952 at Galerie Huit in Paris and his second solo show in 1959 at the Poindexter Gallery in New York.
        Mr. Held lived in New York until the mid-90's and then divided his time between homes in Boiceville, N.Y., and Todi.
        Mr. Held was included in major museum exhibitions devoted to contemporary painting throughout the 60's and into the 70's. From 1960 to 1980 he taught in the art department of Yale University, where he was valued as a challenging and demanding teacher by many students, like Judy Pfaff, who went on to have significant careers of their own.
        With the resurgence of representational painting and political art in the 80's, Mr. Held's work came to be viewed as less central to mainstream developments, and yet it was during later decades that he produced some of the most ambitious works of his career. Many of those paintings were too big to fit even into a large commercial gallery. For example, one work, a triptych titled ''Requiem'' measuring 15 feet high and more than 60 feet across, was not seen by the public until the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens included it in a 2002 exhibition.
        At his death, Mr. Held was working on commissions for mural paintings for the Jacksonville Public Library in Florida; stained-glass windows for the Federal District Court in Orlando, Fla.; and a mosaic for the subway stop at Lexington Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, where a major section can already be seen.
        Mr. Held's marriages to Giselle Wexler, the filmmaker and dancer Yvonne Rainer, the sculptor Sylvia Stone and Kathleen Monahan ended in divorce. He is survived by his companion, Pamela Gagliani of Todi; his daughter, Mara Held of Brooklyn; and one grandchild.
      