
        Alfredo Corvino, a dancer who became a distinguished ballet teacher during more than four decades at the Juilliard School and who accepted the invitation of Pina Bausch, one of his prize pupils, to tour as her company's balletmaster, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was announced by Janet Kessin, a Juilliard spokeswoman.
        The range of dancers who idolized Mr. Corvino for his teaching, coaching and gentlemanly air included not only experimental choreographers like Ms. Bausch in Germany, but also Broadway stars like Bebe Neuwirth and many leading members of American modern-dance troupes.
        Despite his popularity with modern dancers, Mr. Corvino was a devoted follower of the great Italian ballet teacher Enrico Cecchetti, who left the Russian Imperial Ballet to be chief instructor in Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. The Cecchetti training method was passed down to Mr. Corvino by its chief British exponent in New York, Margaret Craske.
        Mr. Corvino studied with Craske, assistant director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School, and with Antony Tudor, a founding choreographer of American Ballet Theater, who left that company to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and its school in 1950. It was Tudor who asked Mr. Corvino to join the newly created dance division of the Juilliard School in 1952. Mr. Corvino retired from the faculty there in 1994. Juilliard awarded him an honorary doctorate of fine arts in May.
        Born in Montevideo, Uruguay, on Feb. 2, 1916, the young Alfredo Corvino studied violin with his father, a violinist in the Philharmonic Orchestra of Montevideo. He studied at the National Academy of Ballet there and became a principal dancer with the Municipal Theater, also serving as a choreographer and assistant balletmaster. Mr. Corvino then toured Latin America with the Ballets Jooss. The company was directed by Kurt Jooss, the choreographer of the celebrated antiwar ballet ''The Green Table'' and, after World War II, mentor to the young Ms. Bausch, who studied at his school in Essen, Germany. The link between her two major teachers was cemented when Ms. Bausch attended Juilliard from 1960 to 1961.
        Before the appearance of her company, Tanztheater Wuppertal Pina Bausch, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music last fall, Ms. Bausch said that ''of course'' her company's ballet class was taught by Mr. Corvino. Last year he accompanied the troupe in France, Germany and Japan. He also continued to teach master classes in New York. In June he gave classes to Pascal Rioult's company to prepare it for a season at the Joyce Theater.
        Explaining how he taught dancers with heavy schedules, Mr. Corvino told Joseph Carman of Dance Magazine: ''Before the performance, I give them a half-hour of concentrated warm-up. I prolong the dancer's career by working the body correctly. That's my specialty.''
        Mr. Corvino added that he also told dancers to ''visit the Rodin Museum and study da Vinci.''
        As a dancer, Mr. Corvino toured the United States as a soloist with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo before joining the United States Army in 1945. In New York he danced with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and taught at its school. His wife, Marcella Rubin, worked at the school from 1957 to 1968. She died in 2004.
        Mr. Corvino also appeared with the Radio City Music Hall Ballet, Dance Players, Herbert Ross's company, the Gavrilov Company, the Classic Ballet Company of New Jersey and Dance Circle. Among the groups for which he choreographed was the New Jersey Dance Theater Guild, which he directed for 10 years.
        Mr. Corvino is survived by two daughters, both of New York City: Andra, a member of Juilliard's dance faculty, and Ernesta, a ballet teacher and choreographer who directs the Dance Circle troupe; and a sister, Margarita Corvino, of Uruguay.
      