
        Dan Crawford, who as a boy in New Jersey fell in love with British comedy movies and followed his heart to London, where he ran a tiny theater in a rickety Victorian pub that became an influential stage for top-notch live drama, died in London on July 13. He was 62.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Kevin Durjun, administrator of Mr. Crawford's creation, the King's Head Theater.
        Mr. Crawford was a progenitor, some say the progenitor, of what is sometimes called London's fringe theater, its version of Off Broadway. The movement sprang up in London pubs in the 60's, often enlisted top talent and became something of a conveyor belt to the West End theatrical establishment.
        In a backroom once used for billiards and boxing, Mr. Crawford staged new plays, classic revivals and musicals; more than 50 of the productions transferred to the West End, Broadway and national tours. Among the hundreds of actors who gained early traction at his King's Head Theater were Hugh Grant, Clive Owen, Ben Kingsley, Rupert Graves, Kenneth Branagh, Gary Oldman and Victoria Wood.
        ''That mad place just shouldn't have worked but it did, and that was down to Dan, an American who was more English than an Englishman,'' Ms. Wood was quoted as saying after Mr. Crawford's death in a dispatch from The Press Association, the British news service.
        Daniel Frank Crawford, the son of a printer, was born on Dec. 11, 1942, in Hackensack, N.J. The Bergen Record reported that he began as a clown at a shopping mall, then became involved in painting scenery and doing other chores for a theater housed in the mall.
        In high school, he was known as Dapper Dan, the Ice Cream Man, because he sold treats from a homemade cart.
        He nurtured his dream of becoming a theater impresario while working at acting jobs in northern New Jersey and tending bar in New York. During the Vietnam War he moved to Toronto, then found his way to London in 1969.
        After picking up some knowledge of the pub business by working as a bartender, he took the subway to Islington, a north London neighborhood that a friend had told him was on the rise. He walked along Upper Street, stopping at each pub and saying he had heard it was for sale. The King's Head decidedly was.
        ''It hadn't been decorated since 1938; it had no clientele,'' he said in an interview with The Times of London in 1995. ''Even the winos had deserted it.''
        The few pounds in his bank account were enough to lease it, and he did the plastering himself.
        Mr. Crawford reopened the King's Head in August 1970. The first production, an absurdist play by Boris Vian, flopped. The second, an adaptation of John Fowles's novel ''The Collector,'' which Mr. Fowles helped stage, was a hit.
        As beer drinkers clustered in the front of the pub -- sometimes listening to the bartender's banjo-playing, sometimes a blues band -- demand surged for the 125 backroom seats, described as ''criminally punishing'' by The Independent. The stage was just 12 feet by 6 feet; The Times noted the place's ''unpretentious immediacy.''
        Mr. Crawford revived Noël Coward's ''Easy Virtue,'' which had been unperformed since 1927, and it transferred to the Garrick in the West End and ran for a year. Later, he did the same for Coward's ''Song at Twilight.''
        His revival of ''The Browning Version'' reawakened interest in its playwright, Terence Rattigan. Other early successes included ''Spokesong,'' by the Northern Irish writer Stewart Parker, and ''Kennedy's Children,'' by Robert Patrick, both of which transferred to the West End and Broadway.
        Mr. Crawford chose many works that addressed gay concerns in the time of AIDS, including ''Elegies for Angels, Punks and Raging Queens,'' which involved a cast of 30. The Kings Head was the first British theater to stage ''The Vagina Monologues.''
        Mr. Crawford, who continued to tend bar and never paid himself a salary, was often called an eccentric for his quirks, which included buying his clothes at charity stores and long doing transactions in the obsolete pounds, shillings and pence. The truth was that he wanted to save money for theatrical productions, and his cash register was not geared for decimalized money.
        The playwright Tom Stoppard, some of whose lesser-known works were staged by Mr. Crawford, called him ''stark raving sane.''
        Mr. Crawford managed to keep things going despite repeated cuts in funds by government arts groups, and Mr. Durjun said plays were now booked through mid-December. He promised that the King's Head would continue.
        Mr. Crawford, who completely lost his New Jersey accent but never his affection for the New York Mets, is survived by his fourth wife, Stephanie, and by his stepdaughter, Katey.
        His favorite song was ''Spread a Little Happiness,'' by Vivian Ellis, whose musicals he revived. It was played at his funeral.
      