
        George Forman, a longtime comptroller of the American Civil Liberties Union who brought fiscal discipline to a ramshackle organization near bankruptcy in the late 1970's and later helped it develop into a powerful civil liberties conglomerate, died on Monday at the home of his daughter, Judy Jamieson, in Chatham, Mass. He was 88.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, Ms. Jamieson said.
        ''During the years of crisis he was more responsible than any other single person for keeping the program afloat,'' said Ira Glazer, the executive director of the A.C.L.U. from 1978 to 2001.
        He explained how Mr. Forman juggled the bills and even earned interest on a deficit operational budget, and recalled visits from officials of Chemical Bank who complained that although the organization was moving around millions of dollars, its average balance was $3.79.
        ''He was the chewing gum and rubber bands that held the organization together and made the high intellectual and strategic law possible,'' Mr. Glazer said.
        When Mr. Forman arrived at the A.C.L.U. in 1968, the organization had two lawyers, one part-time press person and no one in charge of administration and finances, fund-raising or development. By the time he retired in the late 1990's, the organization had a $50 million annual income, more than $100 million in assets and staffed offices in every state.
        Before joining the A.C.L.U., Mr. Forman was the comptroller of the Noma Corporation, a large, diversified holding company; he became unemployed when Noma merged with a predecessor of Gulf and Western.
        George Forman was born in Manhattan on Feb. 15, 1917. He lived alone in his parents' apartment in the Bronx, where he had cared for them until they died.
        During World War II, he was an Army officer stationed in Washington, where he fell in love with a woman with whom he had his only daughter but felt he could not marry because she was not Jewish.
        He graduated magna cum laude from New York University in 1939 and earned a graduate degree in business administration there.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by a granddaughter.
        Correction:  August 8, 2005, Monday  An obituary yesterday about George Forman, a retired comptroller of the American Civil Liberties Union, misstated the surname of the organization's retired executive director, who credited Mr. Forman with having helped restore fiscal discipline to it. He is Ira Glasser, not Glazer.
      