
        The Rev. Dr. Theodore Alexander Gill Sr., a Presbyterian theologian, philosophy teacher and an influential provost emeritus of John Jay College in Manhattan, died on June 10 in Princeton. He was 85.
        The death was announced late last month by his family.
        A Presbyterian minister with academic credentials, he joined the faculty of John Jay College of Criminal Justice in 1971 as a professor of philosophy and chairman of the department of art, music and philosophy. He was named provost and dean of faculty in January 1976.
        Working with Gerald W. Lynch, who was acting president and then president, Dr. Gill helped expand John Jay from a training ground for students of law enforcement into a full-fledged liberal arts institution. Dr. Gill recruited faculty members grounded in the liberal arts, many of them from Princeton.
        Basil Wilson, John Jay's current provost, said his predecessor's philosophy and advocacy aimed at educating law officers as whole persons.
        In his teaching and writings, Dr. Gill stressed the links between religion and the arts. He counted Paul Tillich, Karl Barth and Reinhold Niebuhr among his mentors.
        Dr. Gill stepped down as provost at John Jay in 1980 and retired from the faculty in 1989. In retirement he was theologian in residence at Nassau Presbyterian Church in Princeton.
        Theodore Gill was born in Eveleth, Minn., near Duluth. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1940 and from Princeton Theological Seminary in 1943, and earned a doctorate in theology from Union Theological Seminary in New York in 1945, and two more in 1948 from the Universities of Zurich and Basel.
        From then through 1952 he was pastor of the West End Presbyterian Church on Amsterdam Avenue in Manhattan.
        He was also chairman of the department of religion and dean of chapel at Lindenwood College in St. Charles, Mo.; managing editor of The Christian Century, a weekly; and editor of a sister publication, The Pulpit.
        From 1958 to 1966 he was president of San Francisco Theological College in San Anselmo, Calif., and in 1966 was named executive director of the Department of Higher Education of the World Council of Churches in Geneva.
        Dr. Gill's wife of 57 years, the former Katherine Yonker, died in 2002. He is survived by their son, the Rev. Theodore A. Jr.; a daughter, Laurie M. Keeran of Brewster, Mass.; and a granddaughter.
      