
        Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary who quit the government to protest the invasion of Iraq, died on Saturday after collapsing in the Scottish Highlands on a mountain called Ben Stack, the police said, without explaining the cause of death. He was 59.
        Mr. Cook was close to tears in March 2003 when, as leader of the House of Commons, he rose on the very eve of battle to tell legislators that he did not believe an Iraq campaign had either international or domestic support and therefore, ''with a heavy heart,'' he was quitting the government.
        In a letter to Mr. Blair at the time he said: ''In principle, I believe it is wrong to embark on military action without broad international support. In practice, I believe it is against Britain's interest to create a precedent for unilateral military action.''
        By resigning, Mr. Cook brought himself into line with a broad swath of the British population that was opposed to a war without a United Nations mandate and in alliance with a disliked American administration.
        But he also set himself against Mr. Blair at one of the most critical moments of the prime minister's career. In British politics, Mr. Cook's action -- defying his party at a time of national crisis -- was seen as a rare display of principle at personal and political cost.
        The decision marked the end of a career in high office marked by unfulfilled aspirations and a scandal in 1997 that ended his marriage of 28 years. At the time, a British newspaper had unearthed details of an affair he was conducting and Mr. Blair was reportedly insisting that he choose between his wife and lover.
        In the glare of publicity, Mr. Cook informed his wife, Margaret Cook, a medical consultant, of his decision to end their marriage as they were about to board a vacation flight to the United States at London's Heathrow airport.
        She repaid the favor in a subsequent memoir and other writings chronicling the breakdown of the marriage. Mr. Cook subsequently married his lover, Gaynor Regan. She was with him on Saturday when he collapsed near the 2,365-foot summit of Ben Stack in Sutherland, Scotland, on Saturday.
        A major player in the Labor party and adept in the debating skills and acerbic repartee required to shine in the British Parliament, Mr. Cook maintained an ambiguous stance toward Mr. Blair in the latter years of his career.
        Even as he resigned, he said he would continue to support Mr. Blair in fields other than the war. In national elections in May 2005, he campaigned for a third successive term for the Labor Party. But once victory was assured, he used newspaper articles and public appearances to call for Mr. Blair to step aside in favor of his heir apparent, Chancellor Gordon Brown.
        Mr. Brown and Mr. Cook were seen as potential allies in a post-Blair era. They had earlier parted over Mr. Cook's opposition to plans for greater self-government in Scotland. In the late 1990's, Mr. Cook had also coveted the job of Chancellor of the Exchequer, which went to Mr. Brown.
        On Saturday, after Mr. Cook's death became known, Mr. Blair called him an ''outstanding, extraordinary talent.''
        Robin Finlayson Cook was born near Glasgow and studied English at Edinburgh University. He had planned further studies in divinity but suffered doubts about his religious belief. He was known thereafter for twin passions -- politics and horse racing. He wrote newspaper columns on both.
        A committed socialist, he joined the Labor Party and, after a spell as a teacher in his 20's, devoted himself to politics fulltime, entering Parliament as a legislator for an Edinburgh district in 1974.
        During the Labor Party's 18 years in opposition, he held a series of senior party posts, earning a reputation for meticulous debate in Parliament. Admirers said that while he sometimes seemed haughty in his attitude to political adversaries, he also displayed a remarkable confidence in his own abilities.
        But in 1994, after the death of the party's leader John Smith prompted a struggle for succession, Mr. Cook failed to mount a serious challenge to the telegenic and media-savvy Mr. Blair. Mr. Cook's bearded appearance contrasted awkwardly. Even after his death on Saturday, the Press Association, a normally sober domestic news agency, noted that cartoonists had depicted him to a garden gnome.
        When Labor came to power in 1997, Mr. Cook was rewarded for his loyalty and became foreign secretary. He announced what he called an ''ethical foreign policy'' -- one that would support human rights and other liberal values -- but the notion did not survive for long.
        He played a significant role in the 1999 NATO operation against Yugoslavia, a 78-day bombing campaign intended to halt the ''ethnic cleansing'' of Albanians from the Serbian province of Kosovo. He said he regarded ''defending Kosovo'' as a great achievement.
        After Labor won power for a second term in 2001, Mr. Blair -- shuffling his cabinet after a landslide electoral victor and unimpressed by Mr. Cook's performance as foreign secretary -- demoted him to leader of the House of Commons, a job designed to oversee the government's legislative program in Parliament.
        It was from that position that he resigned in March 2003, when he took issue with Mr. Blair's insistence that war was the only way to disarm Saddam Hussein of weapons of mass destruction. No such weapons were found after the invasion.
        ''Why is it now so urgent that we should take military action to disarm a military capacity that has been there for 20 years, and which we helped to create?'' he said that day in Parliament.
        In a volume of memoirs published shortly afterward, Mr. Brown suggested that Mr. Blair knew all along that Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruction available for use. He wrote of his bitter opposition to what he saw as interventionist American foreign policy and Mr. Blair's association with it.
        Jack Straw, Mr. Cook's successor as foreign secretary, described him on Saturday as ''the greatest parliamentarian of his generation and a very fine foreign secretary.''
        John Kampfner, his biographer, said Mr. Cook could be rude and prickly. ''He did not suffer fools gladly,'' Mr. Kampfner said.
        Besides his first and second wives, he is survived by two sons from his first marriage.
        Correction:  August 9, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday and in some late editions on Sunday about Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary, misidentified the writer of a memoir that suggested that Prime Minister Tony Blair had known all along that Saddam Hussein had no illicit weapons available for use. It was written by Mr. Cook, not by Gordon Brown, chancellor of the exchequer and Mr. Blair's heir apparent.
      