
        Gene Mauch, who managed for 26 seasons in the major leagues and took three teams to the verge of a pennant but never to a World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79.
        Mauch's death was announced by the Los Angeles Angels, who said he had cancer.
        Mauch was named National League manager of the year by The Associated Press with the Philadelphia Phillies in 1962 and 1964, and with the Montreal Expos in 1973.
        He turned around a dreary Phillies franchise in his first managerial stint, and he managed two divisional champions with the California Angels, his last team. But he was probably remembered most for the Phillies' collapse in the 1964 pennant race and the Angels' playoff losses on the doorstep of the World Series.
        Mauch managed the Phillies from 1960 to 1968, the Montreal Expos from 1969 to 1975, the Minnesota Twins from 1976 to 1980 and the California Angels in 1981 and 1982 and then 1985 to 1987. He managed in 3,938 games, a total exceeded only by Connie Mack, John McGraw, Bucky Harris, Tony La Russa and Sparky Anderson. But his 26 seasons without a pennant winner is the longest such stretch of any major league manager.
        A lean, silver-haired presence in the dugout, Mauch was adept at gaining an edge. He kept computer printouts to check what batters had done against certain pitchers before that kind of analysis became customary. Rod Carew, the Minnesota Twins' Hall of Famer, once recalled how Mauch deployed a five-man infield four or five times on a single road trip to cut off the winning run at home plate in the ninth inning, and how it worked every time. Mauch was known for his intensity. In a famous tantrum in September 1963, he flung spare ribs around the clubhouse when he decided Phillies players were taking a loss too lightly.
        ''Some people like to say that Gene has never been a winning manager,'' Buzzie Bavasi, the Angels' general manager, said in 1981, when Mauch became their manager. ''But he has been a winning manager when you consider that some of the teams he had were in the pennant race when they really had no business being there.''
        A native of Salina, Kan., Mauch grew up in Southern California. He made his major league debut as an infielder with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1944 and also played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Chicago Cubs, Boston Braves, St. Louis Cardinals and Boston Red Sox, retiring after the 1957 season. He appeared in only 304 games, with a .239 career batting average.
        In Mauch's first season as a major league manager, his 1960 Phillies finished eighth and last. The 1961 Phillies were last again, losing 107 games -- 23 in a row at one point.
        Mauch's 1964 Phillies seemed headed for the franchise's first pennant since the 1950 Whiz Kids team, holding a lead of six and a half games over the St. Louis Cardinals and Cincinnati Reds with 12 games to play.
        But it all unraveled, beginning on Sept. 21, when Cincinnati's Chico Ruiz stole home to give the Reds a 1-0 victory over the Phillies. That was the beginning of a 10-game Phillies losing streak. The Phils ended the season tied with the Reds for second place, a game behind the Cardinals. The debacle left Mauch facing criticism that he overworked his ace starting pitchers, Jim Bunning and Chris Short, in the final weeks.
        Mauch's 1982 Angels won the first two games of the American League Championship Series from the Milwaukee Brewers, but lost the next three. Mauch came in for second-guessing by bypassing Ken Forsch, a 13-game winner, in Game 4. He started Tommy John and Bruce Kison, both with three days' rest, in the final two games of the series.
        Mauch's 1986 Angels were one strike from winning the League Championship Series when Dave Henderson of the Red Sox hit a homer to complete a four-run rally in the ninth inning of Game 5. The Red Sox won in 11 innings, then captured Games 6 and 7.
        ''For a few weeks after that, every morning when I woke up, I felt it in my stomach,'' Mauch told Dave Anderson of The New York Times the next March. ''Like a hot dagger in my belly button.''
        Mauch quit managing during the 1988 exhibition season, saying he was finding it harder to cope with losses.
        He is survived by his wife, Jodie, and a daughter, Leeanne. Mauch was a teenager with the Dodgers when Branch Rickey, the general manager, spotted him as a future manager. ''Look at him and you'd think he's 16,'' Red Smith of The Times once recalled Rickey saying. ''Talk to him and you think he's 26. Talk baseball with him, and you'd think he's 36.''
        Mauch could be self-effacing when forced to talk about himself. ''People are always saying how much Gene Mauch knows about baseball,'' he said during his first year with the Angels. ''Well, first of all it's not that hard a game to know, and if you're in it 40 years, you ought to learn something.''
      