
        Thomas W. Langfitt, who led the Pew Charitable Trusts to prominence in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 78.
        His death followed a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Langfitt, originally a medical researcher, retired in 1987 as chief of neurosurgery at the University of Pennsylvania.
        The Pew trusts derived from a Pennsylvania oil fortune and were originally family run but were reorganized last year as a public charity. The trusts make up one of the largest charitable foundations, with a sizable staff.
        As a board member and then as president, Dr. Langfitt helped shift the trusts' focus from largely local interests to national and international programs.
        The causes he championed included early child development, health care reform and the environment.
        In the early 80's, he joined the boards of the foundation and the Glenmede Trust Company, an investment bank founded in 1956 by four Pew siblings that handles its assets, and he remained on both boards at his death.
        Dr. Langfitt was president of the trusts from 1987 to 1994 and president and chief executive of Glenmede from 1987 until 1996.
        In his tenure, the assets and disbursements of Pew more than doubled. According to the 2005 Foundation Directory, the combined Pew trusts held more than $4billion in assets and made grants totaling $265.5million in 2003.
        Among its principal beneficiaries last year were the international Pew Research Center in Washington, the George Washington University Graduate School of Political Management, and national prekindergarten programs conducted at Rutgers University.
        Thomas William Langfitt was born in Clarksburg, W.Va. He graduated from Princeton in 1949, received his M.D. from Johns Hopkins in 1953 and completed his training at Johns Hopkins Hospital.
        He was principal investigator of head-injury programs at the University of Pennsylvania, focusing on managing intracranial pressure, then a common cause of death in neurosurgical patients.
        He also worked to develop measurements for blood flow in the brain, an important factor in neuroimaging techniques like PET scans. Dr. Langfitt was named Frazier professor of neurosurgery and chairman of the department in 1968 and had both positions at the university and its hospital until he became president at Pew.
        In 1996, he joined the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, a cultural and educational society founded in 1787. As its president from 2002 to 2004, he established a Web site, www.phillyhealthinfo.org, to provide basic health information for low-income residents.
        Surviving are his wife of 52 years, Carolyn Payne Langfitt; three sons, David, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; John, of Rochester; and Frank, of Washington; a brother, Frank Jr., of Portland, Ore.; a sister, June Brewster of Naples, Fla.; and eight grandchildren.
      