
        Ivor G. Balding, one of three British brothers who gained international fame as polo stars in the 1930's, when the sport attracted large crowds and wide press coverage, died on Thursday at his home in Camden, S.C. He was 96.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Balding, along with his brothers Barney and Gerald, played polo in the United States throughout the 1920's and 1930's, mostly at the famed Meadow Brook Club in Westbury on Long Island, then the national center of the sport. Those decades are considered the golden age of polo, as special passenger trains brought spectators from New York for international matches. Though polo has had an aura of wealth and privilege, its origins were hardly rarified: it is believed to be a descendant of a competition among Mongol tribesmen, whose rendition of the sport involved whacking a human head up and down a field.
        After a career that included playing in the United States Open at Meadow Brook in 1935 for the Long Island team, Ivor Balding went on to work for his friend C.V. Whitney as a stable, farm and horse-racing manager, first on Long Island and then in Lexington, Ky., until retiring in the 1980's. The Whitney stables produced winners of most major races in the United States and many abroad.
        Whitney credited Ivor Balding with persuading him to buy the stallion Mahmoud from the Aga Khan in 1940 for $80,000, then a record. But the investment paid off handsomely: Mahmoud sired many winners and became the backbone of the Whitney stables.
        Ivor Balding was born in 1909 in Leicestershire, England. His father, Albert, was a well-known supplier of horses to the English army and to private buyers.
        He and his brothers came to the United States to play polo in the 1920's. His brother Gerald arrived first, moving to New Jersey, and was followed by Ivor. The two kept up a gentle rivalry throughout their careers.
        ''It was amazing that they all came with no money out of England and made a wonderful life for themselves,'' said Mr. Balding's son, Ivor David Balding.
        Gerald Balding was captain of the British national polo team in 1936 and 1938, and was rated at 10 goals -- the highest rating a polo player can receive. Ivor and Barney Balding were both rated at 7 goals. Both Gerald and Barney Balding died in the 1950's.
        Bruce E. Balding, Barney Balding's son, recalled traveling as a small boy to Meadow Brook to watch his uncles compete. Spectators jammed the grandstand to watch the matches, in which mallet-swinging horsemen thundered up and down the field in seven-minute periods called chukkers.
        The program that was distributed at the United States Open Championship in 1935 said, ''For the past two seasons, the team has an English No. 1 in Ivor Balding.''
        During a match in 1936, Ivor Balding scored six goals as the Roslyn polo team beat East Williston, 11-4. The photo accompanying the article in The New York Times showed Balding in all his Gatsbyesque glory: with knee-high riding boots, leather gloves, carved wooden mallet, his left hand firmly clasping the reins of the dark gray horse on which he rode that day.
        But the sport was fast falling from popularity as the Depression deepened; that year, it was dropped as an Olympic event.
        Ivor Balding is survived by his wife, Polly Potter, and four children, Bettina Blackford of Charlottesville, Va., Ivor David Balding, of St. Louis, Pamela Jencks of London, and Linda Shearer of Cincinnati.
      