
        Dick Heyward, a retired senior official of the United Nations Children's Fund who for more than 30 years developed and oversaw Unicef's relief efforts around the world, died on Aug. 3 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        Mr. Heyward died after a long illness, Unicef announced.
        Mr. Heyward was associated with Unicef from 1949 until his retirement in 1981. From 1975 on, he was Unicef's senior deputy executive director, with the rank of assistant secretary general of the United Nations.
        Trained as an economist, Mr. Heyward is credited with helping Unicef shift its focus from only providing disaster relief to offering an array of long-term programs for children and families in developing countries. In 1953, the name was changed from the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. Among the programs with which Mr. Heyward was most closely associated were campaigns to promote breast-feeding and encourage countries to establish national nutritional standards for children.
        Eric John Richard Heyward was born on Sept. 22, 1914, on his family's apple farm in Koonya, on the Australian island Tasmania. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Tasmania in 1935 and a master's degree from the London School of Economics in 1940. From 1947 to 1949 he was the Australian Mission's delegate to the United Nations. In 1949, he became Unicef's deputy executive director in charge of operations. In retirement, Mr. Heyward frequently traveled to Africa on relief missions for Unicef, the World Health Organization and the World Bank.
        Mr. Heyward is survived by his wife, the former Elisabeth Schwarzbourg, whom he married in 1949; two brothers, Bruce and Keith, both of Tasmania; two sons, Andrew, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Peter, of Washington, president of CBS News; and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 12, 2005, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Dick Heyward, a retired senior official of Unicef, misidentifed the surviving son who is president of CBS News. He is Andrew, not Peter.
      