
        Ted Radcliffe, one of the last surviving Negro leagues stars, whose prowess on the pitching mound and behind the plate inspired Damon Runyon to nickname him Double Duty, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 103.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said the Chicago White Sox, who invited Radcliffe to throw out ceremonial first balls in recent seasons.
        Radcliffe was an All-Star pitcher-catcher and a manager in a Negro leagues career than spanned more than two decades. But he was 44 years old when Jackie Robinson broke the major league color barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. The closest he came to the majors was his stint as a scout with the Cleveland Indians in the 1960's.
        Radcliffe made frequent ceremonial appearances in recent years. Radcliffe and Buck O'Neil, 93, a star player and manager with the Kansas City Monarchs and now chairman of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City, Mo., were often honored as pre-eminent figures whose playing careers were solely in black baseball.
        He made his debut with the Detroit Stars, and played in the Negro leagues from 1928 to 1950. Radcliffe appeared six times in the Negro leagues' East-West All-Star Game at Comiskey Park in Chicago. Pitching in three of those games and catching in three others, he lived up to the nickname that Runyon had given him after watching him play for the Pittsburgh Crawfords against the New York Black Yankees in 1932.
        ''He said I was the most versatile man he'd even seen,'' Radcliffe recalled in ''Voices From the Great Black Baseball Leagues,'' by John Holway. ''He saw me and Satchel Paige pitch a doubleheader in Yankee Stadium. I caught Satchel in the first game and we won it, 5-0, then I pitched the second game and we won it, 4-0. The next day, Runyon wrote, 'It was worth the price of admission of two to see Double Duty out there in action.'''
        According to The Biographical Encyclopedia of Negro Baseball Leagues, by James A. Riley, Radcliffe batted .325 and had a 19-8 pitching record for the Crawfords the year he gained his nickname. Known for his strong throwing arm as a catcher in addition to his pitching skills, Radcliffe also sought a psychological edge with a chest protector reading: ''Thou Shalt Not Steal.''
        Theodore Roosevelt Radcliffe was born in Mobile, Ala., on July 7, 1902. He moved to Chicago after World War I, played semiprofessional baseball, then appeared with more than a dozen Negro leagues teams. He managed the Memphis Red Sox and Chicago American Giants. His biggest thrill was hitting a home run in the West's 7-4 victory in the 1944 All-Star Game, after which, he recalled, ''my mama met me at home plate.'' His brother Alex was a star Negro Leagues infielder.
        Radcliffe regaled interviewers with his vignettes.
        Recalling Paige in ''The Illustrated History of the Negro Leagues,'' by Bruce Chadwick, Radcliffe related how ''he could throw 105 miles an hour and hit a mosquito flying over the outside corner of the plate.''
        On the slugging first baseman Buck Leonard in a game against major leaguers: ''Buck hit a home run so far off Bob Feller that it cleared the fence, the bleachers, a row of houses, and hit a big old water tower. It rained in that town for five weeks.''
        But Radcliffe had memories that evoked no smiles. In a 1991 interview with The Boston Globe, he told of the time he took a team through Waycross, Ga., and stopped the car to buy gas. When the players sought to drink from a hose used to wash cars, the owner of the gas station cursed them and demanded, ''Put that hose down -- that's for white folks to drink.''
        ''After that, I refused to buy gas from him,'' Radcliffe remembered. ''About four miles down the road, the gas ran out and we had to push the car five miles.''
        Radcliffe emerged from obscurity in 1990, when the news media reported how he and his wife had been beaten and robbed while living in a housing project on Chicago's South Side. The Baseball Assistance Team, which aids needy former players, and the Chicago mayor's office helped the Radcliffes move into a church-run residence for the elderly.
        The announcement of Radcliffe's death did not list survivors.
        ''I've had a good life,'' Radcliffe told Mr. Holway. ''We couldn't stay in the white hotels then. The only place we stayed in a white hotel was up around North Dakota or Canada. But then, some people never had the opportunity we had. Some people come along and dig ditches all their lives.''
      