
        Alexander Kossiakoff, a chemist and missile scientist who helped develop radar-guided missiles for Navy ships and later supervised the building of satellites and radar systems for the Defense Department, died Aug. 6 in a hospital in Maryland. He was 91.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        From 1969 to 1980, Dr. Kossiakoff directed the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University in Laurel, Md., where he worked for six decades and continued until last month as chief scientist.
        He joined the physics laboratory in 1946 and began working on surface-to-air missiles for the Navy. Dr. Kossiakoff (pronounced KOSS-ickoff) helped develop and test the Terrier missile, designed to be fired at aircraft from ships. In the 1950's, the Terrier became the first successful supersonic radar-guided missile to be used by the American fleet.
        As the laboratory's assistant director for technical operations, he was a liaison between the university and the Navy and drew on his earlier experience as a rocket designer.
        In 1969, he was appointed the laboratory's director and oversaw 3,000 employees involved in projects as diverse as communications satellites, radar systems and medical pacemakers. Also during his tenure, the laboratory tested and evaluated the submarine-launched Polaris and Trident ballistic missiles, and the Aegis surface missile system, for the Defense Department.
        Alexander Ivanovich Kossiakoff was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, the son of an army officer who emigrated to the United States with his family in 1923.
        He received his undergraduate degree from the California Institute of Technology and a doctorate in chemistry from Johns Hopkins in 1938. He became an American citizen in 1930.
        After briefly teaching chemistry at Catholic University, Dr. Kossiakoff was named assistant director of research at the Allegheny Ballistics Laboratory in West Virginia, from 1944 to 1946. He then joined the Johns Hopkins laboratory and remained for the rest of his career.
        With William N. Sweet, Dr. Kossiakoff wrote a standard textbook, ''Systems Engineering Principles and Practice,'' published in 2002.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Arabelle. The couple lived in Brookeville, Md.
        He is also survived by a son, Anthony Kossiakoff, a biophysicist at the University of Chicago; a daughter, Tanya Schmieler of White Oak, Md.; and five grandchildren.
      