
        Dr. William Trager, who opened a path for modern malaria research by discovering how to grow its most lethal parasite in the laboratory, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94.
        The cause was believed to be a heart attack, his son, Leslie Trager, said.
        In 1976, Rockefeller University announced that Dr. Trager had found a way to culture Plasmodium falciparum, the most deadly of four forms of malaria, in a medium of human blood.
        The World Health Organization immediately expressed optimism that the discovery would quickly lead to a vaccine against the disease, which was then killing about a million children a year. But that goal is still proving maddeningly elusive, while malaria and the mosquitoes carrying it have developed resistance to many modern drugs and pesticides. It is again killing about a million a year, most of them children in Africa.
        Dr. Trager, who graduated from Rutgers University and received his doctorate from Harvard in 1933, spent his 60-year teaching career at Rockefeller University in New York and its predecessor in Princeton, although he lived at different times in Panama and Nigeria to do research.
        As a young researcher, in an era before antibiotics, he developed germ-free environments in which to grow mosquito larvae.
        He also found ways to grow the tissues of tsetse flies, mosquitoes and silkworms so that sleeping sickness, encephalitis and other diseases the insects carried could be studied.
        By showing that animals and birds with low levels of the B vitamin biotin were more susceptible to malaria, he demonstrated that parasites could not synthesize some nutrients and had to draw them from their victims.
        Hopes for therapy based on that were overoptimistic, however, as biotin alone did not prevent malaria. Efforts by other scientists to fight cancer with malaria or other infections on the theory that the parasites could starve tumors of vitamins also proved impractical and dangerous.
        In World War II, as a captain in the Sanitary Corps, Dr. Trager was sent to northern Australia to oversee trials of a new drug, atabrine, to see if it would help troops in the Pacific suffering repeated malaria infections.
        In 1950, he first succeeded in growing in test tubes a malaria strain that infects birds. From there, he went on to success with human strains.
        He was a founding member of the Society for Protozoologists and edited its journal from 1953 to 1965. He was also president of the American Society of Parasitologists and the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.
        His wife, Ida Sosnow, whom he married in 1935, died last year. Besides his son in New York City, Dr. Trager is survived by two daughters, Carolyn Burr of Vancouver, British Columbia, and Lillian Trager of Racine, Wis., and three grandchildren.
      