
        David Loeb Weiss, a retired proofreader at The New York Times who directed the award-winning 1980 documentary film ''Farewell, Etaoin Shrdlu,'' which chronicled the last, clangorous night that the paper was put out using hot-metal type, died on Thursday at his home in San Diego. He was in his early 90's.
        Mr. Weiss's companion, Vivian Gilbert-Strell, confirmed the death.
        Made in collaboration with Carl Schlesinger, then a Linotype operator at The Times, the film followed the issue of July 2, 1978, as it was ''put to bed,'' as the nightly ritual of typesetting, composing and printing was known.
        Shot at the newspaper's offices on West 43rd Street, the 28-minute documentary captured a process that was largely unchanged since 1886, when Ottmar Mergenthaler invented the Linotype machine. The invention revolutionized printing, allowing metal type to be set a line at a time from a keyboard instead of painstakingly by hand, one letter at a time.
        ''Farewell, Etaoin Shrdlu'' caught the din of the composing room, where dozens of Linotype machines clattered away, spitting out lines of type -- printed backward -- that were locked into metal page forms. The forms were used in making the 40-pound page plates, or stereotypes, from which the paper was printed.
        The film's title represents the ''words'' formed by striking the first 12 keys, in two vertical rows, at the left of the Linotype keyboard. A compositor would strike those keys to fill out a garbled line of type, indicating that it should be discarded. On occasion, the offending line found its way into the paper, ''etaoin shrdlu'' and all. With the advent of computerized typesetting, ''etaoin shrdlu'' disappeared from the paper forever.
        David Loeb Weiss was born in Warsaw in either 1911 or 1912, and came to the United States with his family as a child. He earned a bachelor's degree from New York University and a master's in political science from the New School for Social Research. He rode the rails a hobo and had a variety of jobs, among them dishwasher, busboy, waiter, union organizer, merchant seaman and teacher.
        Mr. Weiss, who was married three times, was divorced once and widowed twice. Ms. Gilbert-Strell is his only immediate survivor.
        Mr. Weiss's other documentary films include ''Profile of a Peace Parade'' (1967) and ''No Vietnamese Ever Called Me Nigger'' (1968), about Muhammad Ali.
      