
        Bertram L. Podell, a lawyer and three-term Democratic representative from Brooklyn whose conflict-of-interest trial brought Rudolph W. Giuliani to public notice as a young prosecutor in 1974, died of kidney failure on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        His death was announced by the family.
        Mr. Podell served 14 years in the State Assembly in Albany before a special election in 1968 sent him to Washington to fill a vacancy. He was re-elected three times and remained in Congress until January 1975. A liberal Democrat supported by the Brooklyn Democratic organization, he nevertheless failed to win the party's nomination to run for a fourth term in 1974 and was succeeded by Stephen Solarz.
        In July 1973, Mr. Podell was indicted on federal charges of conspiracy, bribery, perjury and conflict of interest, involving efforts to obtain route approval for an airline. The 10-count indictment, later whittled down, accused him of receiving $41,350 to use his influence as a congressman to win a route to the Bahamas for a small Florida airline.
        The case came to trial the next year, with a fellow representative, Edward I. Koch, appearing among the character witnesses for Mr. Podell. The trial became dramatic when Mr. Giuliani rattled Mr. Podell in a withering cross-examination, causing Mr. Podell to break down on the stand, ask for a recess and change his plea to guilty of charges of conspiracy and conflict of interest.
        He was fined $5,000 and sentenced to six months in prison; he served four and a half months.
        Under state law, he was disbarred after his conviction, but the disbarment was lifted by the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in July 1980; a state law passed in 1979 had reversed automatic disbarments for lawyers convicted of federal crimes that were not state felonies.
        He resumed his practice with the firm of Podell, Rothman, Schechter & Banfield. He retired two months ago as a senior partner of what is now Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield and became of counsel to the firm.
        Bertram Lawrence Podell was born in Brooklyn and graduated from St. John's University in 1947, after serving in the Navy in World War II. He received his law degree in 1950 from Brooklyn Law School and specialized in real estate law. Elected to the Assembly in 1954, he headed joint legislative committees on corporate law revision and penal affairs before his election to Congress.
        He was a trustee of the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America and a supporter of the Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation, among other charities.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Bernice Posen Podell; two sons, Stephen D., of Manhattan, and Gary A., of Muttontown, N.Y.; a daughter, Ellen T. Crown of Manhattan; two brothers, Paul N., of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Herbert S., of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      