
        Manfred Korfmann, a German archaeologist whose excavations revived research and debate about ancient Troy, the besieged Bronze Age city that Homer immortalized in ''The Iliad,'' died Aug. 11 at his home near T端bingen, Germany. He was 63.
        His death was reported by the University of T端bingen, where he was a professor of prehistory and archaeology and the director of an international team that since 1988 has explored ruins in Turkey widely regarded as the site of Troy. He had been ill for several months, but the cause of death was not given.
        Hans G. Jansen, a colleague on the Troy project, said Dr. Korfmann's excavations had broadened research beyond the usual questions about the historical foundation for Homer's Trojan War in the 13th century B.C.
        He uncovered new evidence that for many centuries Troy, standing at the entrance to the Dardanelles, the strait leading from the Aegean into the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, was a powerful fortress city at a crossroads for historical, ethnological and cultural interchange.
        For Dr. Korfmann the epic confrontation between Greeks and Trojans, Dr. Jansen said, ''was merely an illustrative and metaphoric episode in a series of many wars that undoubtedly were waged through the centuries in the power play at this strategic place.''
        Dr. Korfmann's excavations followed in the tradition of earlier German archaeologists, notably Heinrich Schliemann, the inspired amateur who in the 1870's established that a mound of buried ruins at Hisarlik, in northwestern Turkey, was most likely the Troy of Achilles and Hector, Paris and the beautiful Helen. Schliemann believed implicitly in the Homeric Troy.
        Against the advice of many scholars, who thought there was little new to be learned from the Hisarlik ruins, Dr. Korfmann reopened excavations there after a lapse of more than 50 years. He applied new technology to an intensive investigation that generated a new image of ancient Troy.
        Even Schliemann, not usually given to doubts, was left puzzled that the ruins he dug up seemed too slight for a city of Troy's reputed wealth and power. Were there other buried ruins somewhere that could give more substance to the poetic legend?
        Beginning in 1992, a geomagnetic survey and spot excavations south of the exposed hilltop stone ruins disclosed evidence of Troy's greater dimensions. The city uncovered by previous archaeologists was no more than the central fortress surrounding the palace, temple and other buildings of the elite. Beyond stretched a ''lower city'' inhabited by artisans, merchants and sailors.
        ''Everywhere we have excavated in the lower city we've encountered clear indications of residential density,'' Dr. Korfmann said, describing a Troy that was perhaps 10 times as large as previously estimated and presumably worthy prey for invading Greeks, even if much of ''The Iliad'' was myth.
        Getzel M. Cohen, a historian of Greek culture at the University of Cincinnati who helped plan the new excavations at Troy, said the discovery of a larger, more populous example of a Late Bronze Age city was ''one of Manfred's major contributions.'' He described Dr. Korfmann as a dynamic leader and provocative interpreter of the expedition's findings.
        Manfred Osman Korfmann was born April 26, 1942, in Cologne and was educated at the University of Frankfurt, where he received his doctorate in ancient history and archaeology in 1970. Over the next decade, he conducted excavations in Africa and the Middle East, was a scientific adviser to the German Archaeological Institute in Istanbul and was a lecturer at Frankfurt. In 1982, he joined the faculty at T端bingen.
        He is survived by his wife and a son and a daughter.
        In 1988 Dr. Korfmann received a license from the Turkish government to resume excavations at the ruins of Troy and the adjacent plain. Each summer since, the project has fielded 200 to 300 archaeologists and graduate students, other scientists and workers. He recently had succeeded in getting the Troy area set aside as a national park. Last year, he took out dual Turkish citizenship.
        Investigating the site's buried layers of occupation from about 3000 B.C. to A.D. 1200, Dr. Korfmann concluded that in the Late Bronze Age, the centuries around the time of the legendary Trojan War, Troy was a prosperous and powerful center of commerce, in part because it could control shipping and collect duties on all goods passing through the Dardanelles. Its wealth presumably made it a tempting target for invaders from Greece.
        Dr. Korfmann's thesis was illustrated in 2001 in an exhibition that opened in Stuttgart, Germany. It included an elaborate model of what a greater Troy might have looked like, which provoked bitter scholarly skirmishing.
        Another T端bingen historian of ancient times, Frank Kolb, demanded to know Dr. Korfmann's proof. He accused the archaeologist of ''willful deceit,'' arguing that Troy in that period was only a princely seat, a castle and little else of consequence.
        ''Our work is reviewed by independent scholars every year, and we have never got a negative report,'' Dr. Korfmann responded.
        Dr. Korfmann also found himself bombarded by questions about the Troy of literature. He said the primary aim of his research was to understand the city's history in this region between Asia and Europe.
        ''If we find something that helps Homeric scholars, so much the better,'' he said.
        Peter Jablonka, the archaeologist now in charge, said the Troy excavations would continue as planned.
      