
        Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat who spent his early childhood in internment camps for Japanese-Americans and served for 26 years in the House, died Saturday night at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 63.
        The cause of death was pneumonia linked to a rare bone-marrow disease, myelodysplastic disorder, according to a statement released Sunday by his office. He had been in the hospital since Dec. 24.
        Mr. Matsui was the third-ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee and the ranking Democrat on the Social Security Subcommittee. He was a fierce opponent of the creation of private savings accounts in the Social Security system, an effort that President Bush has said will be a centerpiece of his second term.
        Mr. Matsui's illness was little known on Capitol Hill, and news of his death was greeted with surprise by many of his colleagues.
        ''I must admit that we never imagined that we would have to go into a major debate on Social Security's future without him,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York.
        As chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for the past two years, Mr. Matsui was also an important party operative.
        A third-generation Japanese-American, Mr. Matsui was less than a year old when he and his family were taken from Sacramento and interned. He stayed in camps until he was almost 4. In one camp, his pregnant mother contracted German measles and, as a result, gave birth to a blind daughter, Barbara. Mr. Matsui's wife, Doris, was also born in an internment camp.
        When he got to Congress, Mr. Matsui helped lead the fight for compensation for the 120,000 people sent to the camps. In August 1988, President Ronald Reagan, saying he was moving to ''right a grave wrong,'' signed an act that apologized for the forced relocation and established a $1.25 billion trust fund to pay reparations to those who were placed in camps and to their families.
        Mr. Matsui was born in Sacramento. He was a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, and Hastings College of the Law at the University of California. He was inspired to become a lawyer, he said, by the autobiography of Clarence Darrow.
        Mr. Matsui founded a law practice in Sacramento in 1967, won a seat on the Sacramento City Council in 1971 and became the city's vice mayor in 1977.
        He was first elected to Congress in 1978 to serve the Sacramento area. In 2004, he won re-election with 71.4 percent of the vote from the Fifth District. A special election will be held to fill the seat.
        Mr. Matsui fought for the North American Free Trade Agreement and was one of the original authors of legislation creating the State Children's Health Insurance Program. He helped Sacramento create flood-control systems and won financing for light rail projects.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Matsui is survived by a son, Brian, of Bethesda, and a granddaughter, Anna.
      