
        Alexander Golitzen, an Academy Award-winning art director and production designer who for 40 years made entire civilizations, from shimmering Old World cities to tawdry Old West towns, rise on the back lots of Hollywood, died on July 26 in San Diego. He was in his late 90's and had lived in San Diego in recent years.
        Mr. Golitzen's family announced the death.
        For many years the supervising art director at Universal Pictures, Mr. Golitzen is credited on more than 300 films. He was nominated for 14 Oscars and, with colleagues, shared three of them: for ''Phantom of the Opera'' (1943), ''Spartacus'' (1960) and ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' (1962).
        Active from the mid-1930's until his retirement in the mid-70's, Mr. Golitzen was responsible for the look of many classic films of the mid-20th century. He worked with some of Hollywood's most renowned directors, among them Alfred Hitchcock, Orson Welles, Ernst Lubitsch, Douglas Sirk and Fritz Lang.
        His credits include ''Foreign Correspondent'' (1940), ''That Uncertain Feeling'' (1941), ''Scarlet Street'' (1945), ''Letter From an Unknown Woman'' (1948), ''The Far Country'' (1954), ''Written on the Wind'' (1956), ''Touch of Evil'' (1958), ''Imitation of Life'' (1959) and ''Sweet Charity'' (1969).
        Alexander Golitzen was born in Moscow, most likely on Feb. 28, 1908, though some published sources give the year as 1907. At the start of the Russian Revolution in 1917, he fled with his family to the United States by way of Siberia; Harbin, China; and Vancouver, Canada. He earned a bachelor's degree in architecture from the University of Washington in 1931.
        Shortly afterward, Mr. Golitzen found work in Hollywood, first at MGM and later at United Artists. (His first official credit, in 1935, was ''The Call of the Wild,'' for which he is said to have suggested the location, Mount Baker in Washington State, as a suitable stand-in for the Klondike.) He joined Universal in the early 40's and became the studio's supervising art director in 1953. He retired in 1973.
        In the days before computer-generated imagery, it was the art director who conjured worlds out of thin air, or, more precisely, out of wood and paper and paint and plaster and cloth. He oversaw every visual aspect of a film that was not lighting, makeup or costumes: the placement of each lamppost, the texture of each cobblestone, the sweep of each staircase.
        ''The art director made the ultimate decision as to what was going to appear in front of the camera,'' Robert S. Sennett, the author of ''Setting the Scene: The Great Hollywood Art Directors'' (Abrams, 1994), said in a telephone interview this week. ''He would say, 'I want Shangri-La on Lot 3 by Tuesday,' and it would be up to everyone who worked for the studio to get that built by Tuesday with everything on it.''
        For Hitchcock's ''Foreign Correspondent,'' Mr. Golitzen, working with the noted art director William Cameron Menzies, turned 10 empty California acres into a bustling square in central Amsterdam. There were cobbled streets, old stone buildings, lumbering trolley cars and a sea of black umbrellas beneath torrents of rain. (The studio had the Colorado River diverted to supply the water.) The film earned Mr. Golitzen his first Oscar nomination.
        For Welles's ''Touch of Evil,'' Mr. Golitzen and Robert Clatworthy brought to life a seamy Southern California border town -- in reality Venice, Calif. -- with its crumbling alleyways, litter-filled streets and flickering neon. For Max Ophüls's ''Letter From an Unknown Woman,'' Mr. Golitzen made a gaslit Vienna dreamscape on a studio lot.
        Mr. Golitzen's other film credits include ''Arabian Nights'' (1942), ''Man Without a Star'' (1955), ''All That Heaven Allows'' (1955), ''The Incredible Shrinking Man'' (1957) and ''Flower Drum Song'' (1961). He also designed the sets of several television shows, including the detective series ''Peter Gunn'' and five Academy Awards broadcasts.
        Mr. Golitzen is survived by his wife, the former Frances Peters; a daughter, Cynthia Garn, of El Cajon, Calif.; a son, Peter, of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      