
        David Shaw, the Pulitzer Prize-winning media critic for The Los Angeles Times whose deeply reported series were often tough on his own newspaper, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        The cause was complications of a brain tumor, the paper said.
        Mr. Shaw differed significantly from most reporters covering the news media, who focused on the day-to-day doings. For much of his tenure covering the news media at The Times, he spent weeks and sometimes months conducting lengthy investigations into subjects that interested him.
        One of those investigations -- a four-part series on how the news media reported the McMartin Preschool child molestation case, which involved ultimately unproven accusations of sexual abuse and Satanism -- won the 1991 Pulitzer Prize for criticism.
        That series also demonstrated a fearlessness uncommon in the press, said Dean P. Baquet, managing editor of The Times. ''Not only did he take on his own paper, he named names,'' he said.
        In reports about movie and restaurant criticism, he did not spare his own paper's critics. In a four-part 1990 series on minorities and the news media, he concluded that The Times had one of the worst records for hiring and promoting minority employees.
        And in 1999, he produced one of his best-known reports, a nearly 37,000-word analysis of a business deal The Times had struck with the Staples Center to publish a special issue of the paper's Sunday magazine devoted to the arena. The deal soon became a scandal when it was revealed that the two sides had agreed to split the profits on the sale of ads, a breach of the Chinese wall set up in news organizations between the news and business sides.
        In his report, which ran as a 14-page section, Mr. Shaw harshly criticized Mark H. Willes, the paper's former publisher who was the chief executive and chairman of The Times's parent company at the time, as well as Kathryn M. Downing, who was then publisher. He also did not spare his direct boss, Michael Parks, the paper's editor.
        David Shaw was born in Dayton, Ohio, on Jan. 4, 1943. His family moved when he was 3 to Southern California, settling in Compton.
        Mr. Shaw was attracted to journalism at an early age, writing for his junior high and high school newspapers. At 16, he took a job as a janitor at a publishing company that had a motorcycle newspaper. When one of the reporters failed to show one day, Mr. Shaw was pressed into service to cover a race, he reminisced in an interview two years ago with Mediabistro.com. He was promptly hired as a reporter, and five months later he was the editor.
        Mr. Shaw graduated in 1965 from the University of California, Los Angeles, with a degree in English. While in college, he began working at The Huntington Park Signal, which is no longer in existence. In 1966 he moved to The Long Beach Independent, and he was hired by The Times in 1968.
        In 1974, the paper's editor, William F. Thomas, picked Mr. Shaw to take on a newly created beat, to apply the same journalistic rigor to the news media as the paper did to society's other institutions.
        Mr. Shaw became a twice-weekly columnist in 2002. One column dealt with the news media, while the other was devoted to food and wine -- subjects that allowed him to give readers weekly glimpses of his self-acknowledged romantic and obsessive streaks.
        Mr. Shaw's subjects included the joys of Parisian restaurants and osso buco, white truffles and Barolo. But his tastes were not just high-end. He wrote about hamburgers and pizza, and a recent column dealt with the disappointing food served at Los Angeles Dodgers games. ''I sure wish the Dodgers would sign a top, power-hitting catcher sometime soon,'' he wrote. ''But there's probably no more chance of that than there is of Dodger Stadium selling a truly great hot dog.''
        Mr. Shaw wrote five books in his career: ''Wilt: Just Like Any Other 7-Foot Black Millionaire Who Lives Next Door'' (Macmillan, 1973); ''The Levy Caper'' (Macmillan, 1974); ''Journalism Today: A Changing Press for a Changing America'' (Harper & Row, 1977); ''Press Watch'' (Macmillan, 1984); and ''The Pleasure Police: How Bluenose Busybodies and Lily-Livered Alarmists Are Taking All the Fun Out of Life'' (Doubleday, 1996).
        Mr. Shaw was married three times. His marriage to Alice Eck ended in divorce. His second marriage, to Ellen Torgerson, ended with her death from cancer. He is survived by this third wife, Lucy Stille, and their son, Lucas, as well as his stepchildren, Jordan Torgerson and Chris Torgerson; three stepgrandchildren; and a sister, Barbara Holme of Denver.
      