
        François Dalle, a prominent French industrialist who guided L'Oréal in the years it became a worldwide cosmetics empire, died in Geneva, where he lived, on Aug. 9. He was 87.
        His death was confirmed by L'Oréal's headquarters in Paris.
        Mr. Dalle took over the company from L'Oréal's founder in 1957, when the name was known chiefly in France. He put his stamp on it with an array of consumer and luxury brand names he sent into mass markets abroad and overseas. During his tenure, the company grew greatly through acquisitions, backed by its own laboratories and hundreds of researchers in cosmetology and dermatology.
        He stepped aside as chief executive in 1984, but remained a leading entrepreneur and exponent of French capitalism. Notable among his many directorships was Nestlé, a major shareholder in L'Oréal, where he was on the board from 1950 to 2001.
        His personal friendships -- and connections -- extended to a former roommate in boarding school, François Mitterrand, a socialist who became president of France.
        He helped give advertising a new look in France and was praised by his peers for the management acumen he showed, for example, when he gave L'Oréal's cosmetics business a scientific foundation. When he was in his 80's, he built stakes in a number of thriving businesses, including wine, clothes and mushrooms. In the 1990's, he was also active in filmmaking, as the partner of Jean-Louis Livi in producing several successful movies.
        François Léon Marie-Joseph Dalle was born in Hesdin, Pas-de-Calais, the son of a brewer. He received a law degree from the University of Paris and practiced before being drafted in World War II. Taken prisoner by the Germans, he escaped and earned the Medal of the Resistance working for the underground.
        In 1945, he managed a factory for a soap maker being taken over by Eugène Schueller, an entrepreneurial French chemist who was a man of the political far right. It was Mr. Schueller who in 1907 had concocted a nontoxic hair dye he sold to hairdressers, called Auréole, meaning the aura of light; it was the precursor to L'Oréal, which was established in 1909 and soon expanded into soaps and shampoos.
        Mr. Dalle rose quickly, becoming marketing manager, then assistant general manager and eventually Mr. Schueller's right-hand man as L'Oréal flourished after World War II. On Mr. Schueller's death, in 1957, he became president and director general and shaped the company's future together with Mr. Schueller's daughter, Liliane Bettencourt.
        L'Oréal hair products, developed in his laboratories, found customers in the world markets beyond beauty parlors, and Mr. Dalle added a line of cosmetics and fragrances. He acquired prestigious brands, including Lancôme, Garnier, Biotherm and Vichy, created others from scratch, and signed licensing agreements with designers and brands like Guy Laroche and Cacharel. Other prestige names now in the L'Oréal fold are Helena Rubinstein, Giorgio Armani and Ralph Lauren, as well as Redken products for professional hairdressers.
        Despite his record with the French Resistance, Mr. Dalle was publicly rebuked for his 1950 hiring of Jacques Correze, a convicted Nazi collaborator who eventually became chairman of the company's former American marketing arm, Cosmair. (Mr. Correze resigned as Cosmair chairman hours before he died in 1991.)
        Mr. Dalle was the author or co-author of several books on entrepreneurship. Most recently he wrote ''L'Aventure l'Oréal'' (2001).
        There was no immediate announcement of survivors. According to a Who's Who entry, he was married in 1982 to Genevieve Clement and had four sons and two daughters.
      