
        Tonino Delli Colli, a prolific and versatile cinematographer whose images illuminated the work of many of Italy's most famous filmmakers, died on Tuesday at his home in Rome. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Stefano.
        In a career that included more than 130 films, Mr. Delli Colli worked with generations of Italian directors, including Pier Paolo Pasolini, Sergio Leone, Federico Fellini and Roberto Benigni. His film credits include classics like ''The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,'' ''The Name of the Rose'' and ''Life Is Beautiful.''
        Originally a master of black-and-white cinematography, Mr. Delli Colli helped to forge Italian neorealism, a cinematic genre known for its use of natural light and on-location shooting, which depicted life in tattered postwar Italy. In 1952 he shot ''Toto a Colori,'' the first Italian movie to use color film. In subsequent years he experimented broadly with color cinematography, painting the silver screen with sweeping, panoramic landscapes and detailed close-ups of actors' faces in ''The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,'' Leone's influential ''spaghetti western'' starring Clint Eastwood.
        Mr. Delli Colli was perhaps most closely associated with Pasolini, a highly experimental filmmaker who often chronicled the dark underside of Italian life. In 1961 the two men began a cinematic partnership that endured until Pasolini's death in 1975.
        Stefano Delli Colli said Pasolini was his father's favorite director because of his ''intellectual and artistic'' depth. He said his father believed cinema had degenerated as an art form, and American cinema in particular had become too commercialized.
        ''He thought intellectual films have become relegated to festivals,'' Mr. Delli Colli said.
        The cinematographer's final film, Benigni's ''Life Is Beautiful'' (1997), enjoyed much commercial success and won three Oscars. Mr. Delli Colli decided to retire on that high note, his son said.
        Tonino Delli Colli was born on Nov. 20, 1923. He never attended film school, but as a teenager he went to work in Italy's newly created Cinecitta studios, where he spent several years working as an assistant cameraman before handling cinematography on his own.
        In an interview published in American Cinematographer magazine this year, Delli Colli said: ''Life is always a matter of luck. At the time, I had no idea what being a cameraman meant, or that those few words would determine the course of my life. Sometimes just a word or two can change everything.''
        He is survived by his son, who lives in Rome.
      