
        Gordon Boelzner, who rose from rehearsal pianist at New York City Ballet to become the company's music director, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        Mr. Boelzner had had a heart bypass operation in recent years, and a City Ballet spokeswoman said the cause of death was apparently a heart attack.
        Mr. Boelzner became one of several prominent members of the music staff at City Ballet, a company noted for the respect for musical values that shaped the choreography of George Balanchine, its founder with Lincoln Kirstein. Writing in The Chicago Sun Times, the critic Glenna Syse once described Mr. Boelzner as ''a man who knows as much about dance as he does about the keyboard.''
        Mr. Boelzner joined City Ballet as a rehearsal pianist in 1959 and began to accompany performances soon after, playing the Stravinsky score at the 1963 premiere of John Taras's ''Arcade'' and, a few weeks later, playing more Stravinsky for the premiere of Balanchine's ''Movements for Piano and Orchestra.'' He went on to perform in Balanchine's ''Allegro Brillante,'' ''Duo Concertant,'' ''Four Temperaments,'' ''Sonatine,'' ''Tarantella'' and ''Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No. 2,'' and the ''Rubies'' section of ''Jewels.''
        He became almost as much a principal performer as the dancers in Jerome Robbins's ''Dances at a Gathering'' and ''In the Night,'' both set to Chopin solo piano works. He played the 75-minute score for Robbins's ''Goldberg Variations'' and won particular praise for his accompaniment in performances of ''In G Major'' by Robbins, set to music by Ravel, and ''Robert Schumann's 'Davidsbündlertänze''' by Balanchine, danced to 18 Schumann piano pieces.
        Mr. Boelzner eventually went on to conduct for the company, becoming music director in 1990. He retired from the post in 1999, when he was named music adviser, a position he held until his death.
        Born in Inglewood, Calif., Mr. Boelzner began studying piano at 8 and four years later began to accompany for his father's vocal classes. He trained on scholarship at the Eastman School in Rochester and at the Manhattan School of Music in New York City. Other teachers included Arturo Benedetti Michelangelo in Bolzano, Italy, and John Cage, with whom he studied composition in New York.
        Mr. Boelzner had a particularly close working relationship with Balanchine, who died in 1983. He was one of Balanchine's favorite class accompanists, inspiring the choreographer at times with a single chord. He seldom went on vacation during the company's down time, preferring to be available to play scores for Balanchine as he chose the music for his new ballets.
        Mr. Boelzner is survived by a brother, Gary, of Irvine, Calif.
        Correction:  August 29, 2005, Monday  An obituary last Monday about Gordon Boelzner, music director of the New York City Ballet, misspelled the name of one of his teachers. The teacher was Arturo Benedetto Michelangeli, not Arturo Benedetti Michelangelo.
        Correction:  August 30, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 22 about Gordon Boelzner, music director of the New York City Ballet, and a correction in this space yesterday misspelled the name of one of his teachers. The teacher was Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, not Arturo Benedetto Michelangeli or Arturo Benedetti Michelangelo.
      