
        Lloyd Meeds, a seven-term House member from Washington State who helped enact watershed education legislation, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Church Creek, Md. He was 77.
        The cause of his death was cancer, according to a statement from his law firm.
        During his 14 years in Congress, Mr. Meeds was a major supporter of the Head Start preschool program and Title IX of the Education Act, which gave women greater access to school programs.
        He also pushed for land conservation, helping to create the Youth Conservation Corps and supporting bills that established the North Cascades National Park and the Alpine Lakes Wilderness in Washington.
        Edwin Lloyd Meeds was born in Dillon, Mont., but moved with his parents to the city of Monroe in northwest Washington as a teenager. He served in the Navy and later attended Everett Junior College and the Gonzaga University School of Law.
        After he was admitted to the state bar in 1958, Mr. Meeds practiced law in Washington State for about six years, finally serving as the prosecuting attorney in Snohomish County. He was elected to Congress in the Democratic landslide of 1964.
        Mr. Meeds served on the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, the Committee on Education and Labor, and the Rules Committee. In addition to his work on education and conservation issues, he was often involved in questions of American Indian rights, which occasionally put him at odds with his non-Indian constituents. In 1976, Mr. Meeds barely kept his seat after a dispute over Indian fishing rights.
        After that narrow victory, Mr. Meeds decided not to seek an eighth term. He told a reporter that he was frustrated with the ''unhealthy cynicism'' of the public toward politicians after the Watergate scandals. He also disapproved of the growing cost of running a campaign and the conflicts inherent in political fund-raising.
        ''If you take that dough, you're either an ingrate or obligated, and either one is an unsatisfactory position to be in,'' he said in an interview.
        After retiring from Congress, Mr. Meeds was a partner at Preston Gates Ellis & Rouvelas Meeds, the Washington, D.C., arm of a Seattle-based law and lobbying firm.
        He was chairman of the Ethics Committee of the American League of Lobbyists from 1987 to 1993 and wrote the first code of ethics for lobbyists in the group.
        Mr. Meeds is survived by his wife, Mary; a daughter, Deborah Kendall; two children from his first marriage, Michael and Michelle Meeds; and eight grandchildren.
      