
        Donald Brooks, an early designer of American sportswear and one of the first to cross over from fashion to make clothes for the theater and the movies, died on Monday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. He was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack he had last month, said Gerald Blum, a former colleague and a friend for 40 years.
        Mr. Brooks emerged as American designers began to develop their own style during and after World War II, introducing more casual sportswear while stepping out of the backrooms of garment manufacturing to become fashion personalities with their own labels. Mr. Brooks was hand-picked by the influential Lord & Taylor president Dorothy Shaver to design a collection for the store in the 1950's. He did not become as famous as Claire McCardell, Bonnie Cashin, Bill Blass and Geoffrey Beene, but within the industry, Mr. Blass, who died in 2002, and Mr. Beene, who died in September, were known with Mr. Brooks as ''the three B's of fashion.''
        Mr. Brooks's passion, however, and the majority of his career, belonged to stage design.
        ''He was more interested in theater than anything else,'' said John Fairchild, the retired publisher of Women's Wear Daily. ''He was one of the early American designers who did clothes for the theater and movies, and that was where his niche was. He was atypical of Seventh Avenue.''
        Mr. Brooks campaigned to design costumes for the 1962 production of ''No Strings'' with Diahann Carroll, presenting his concept to the producer Richard Rodgers on a black model. ''That sealed the deal for him,'' said Kay Blick, Mr. Brooks's sister and his only survivor.
        He received a Tony nomination for ''No Strings'' and the first of three Oscar nominations, for ''The Cardinal,'' in 1963, the same year he won his first Coty Award for his fashion designs.
        Mr. Brooks designed costumes for more than 20 Broadway shows, including ''Flora, the Red Menace'' with Liza Minnelli and ''Fade Out, Fade In'' with Carol Burnett, both in 1965, and was elected to the nominating committee for the Tony Awards in 1992. He won an Emmy for his designs for Lee Remick in the 1982 television film ''The Letter.''
        ''His costumes in 'Flora' were wonderful,'' said Ms. Minnelli, who had remained in contact with Mr. Brooks. ''They were really of the style of the 1930's, but his clothes to wear in real life were elegant. They made everybody look tall.''
        Born Donald Marc Blumberg in New Haven on Jan. 10, 1928, Mr. Brooks, who later legally changed his name, grew up in Manhattan, where his father, Harry Blumberg, was a designer of kitchens and restaurants, including Sardi's. He studied fine arts at Syracuse University and first considered a career as a designer of theatrical scenery, but changed his mind after applying to the Yale School of Drama.
        ''He went into fashion design at the advice of someone at Yale who looked at his work and said, 'But Donald, you're putting costumes on the furniture,''' Ms. Blick said.
        Mr. Brooks transferred to the Fashion Institute of Technology and then to Parsons School of Design, where he later was the subject of a 2003 retrospective that also included the works of two generations of designers who had studied under him.
        After Mr. Brooks graduated from Parsons in 1950, one of his first jobs was designing window displays for Lord & Taylor, bringing him to the notice of Ms. Shaver. She asked him to design a collection for the store. In 1958 Mr. Brooks began designing for another sportswear company, Townley Frocks, and in 1965 he started his own collection, backed by Ben Shaw, a Seventh Avenue manufacturer that also financed the early collections of Norman Norell, Oscar de la Renta, Halston and Mr. Beene.
        Mr. Brooks's collections, distinguished for their uncluttered silhouettes and oversize prints of white flowers, chickens, American Indian motifs and Art Deco architecture, were successful.
        For the 1968 movie ''Star!'' with Julie Andrews, for which he was also nominated for an Academy Award, Mr. Brooks designed more than 3,500 costumes.
      