
        Vito J. Pitta, a former president of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council and longtime leader of its core Local 6, died on Sunday at his home on Staten Island. He was 78 and also had a home in Sunny Isles, Fla.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, his family said.
        One of the city's most forceful labor leaders, Mr. Pitta was credited with improving the economic standing of workers who, often unseen, keep one of its key industries running.
        He was business agent and then chief executive of Local 6 for 35 years, retiring in 1995, a year before he stepped down as president of the umbrella trades council.
        Local 6 of the Hotel, Motel and Club Employees Union represents more than 25,000 employees in private clubs and hotels, where they provide housekeeping, laundry services, and food and beverage services. Starting in 1961, as its business agent, Mr. Pitta worked as an organizer who helped change the state's Labor Relations Act to allow employees of nonprofit organizations, like the Y.M.C.A., to unionize.
        In 1978 he was elected president of the Hotel and Motel Trades Council, an umbrella organization for nine locals. Under his guidance, the council won pension improvements and the largest wage increases in its history. In 1985 he led council members in the first citywide hotel strike, lasting 28 days and resulting in further wage, pension and benefit increases.
        Mr. Pitta, a native of Sicily, arrived in Brooklyn in 1929 and settled in Red Hook. He took a job in a shoe factory and was elected a delegate to the United Shoe Workers of America from Local 54. In World War II he served in the Navy in the Pacific, as he did again in the Naval Reserve in the Korean War.
        Returning to New York, he worked as a busboy at the Plaza Hotel and took up his career with the hotel employees' union. Among the benefits he helped win for hotel workers were a prescription drug program, dental and insurance benefits for domestic partners and a scholarship program.
        He was a past vice president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a board member of the New York City Labor Council. Gov. Hugh L. Carey named him to the New York State Commission on Tourism.
        Mr. Pitta is survived by a son, Vincent F. of Staten Island, who is the general counsel to Local 6 and the Hotel and Motel Trades Council; two daughters, Tina Marie Bauman of Tampa, Fla., and Debra Ward of Staten Island; two sisters, Mary Porcelli of Brooklyn and Aimee Conti of East Meadow, N.Y.; a brother, Thomas, of Hicksville, N.Y.; and eight grandchildren. His wife, Albertina, died 22 years ago.
      