
        Lyndon Woodside, a choral conductor who for more than three decades led one of New York City's oldest and largest choruses, the Oratorio Society of New York, died on Tuesday in Engelwood, N.J. He was 70 and lived in Leonia, N.J.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Richard Pace, president of the society.
        Mr. Woodside was a commanding performer with a large repertory that rested heavily on Baroque works but also included 19th- and 20th-century scores, as well as concert versions of operas. His annual performances of Handel's ''Messiah'' with the 200-voice Oratorio Society were praised for their textural grandeur. As advances in the early music world made performances of Baroque works by huge choruses seem anachronistic, Mr. Woodside compensated by using brisker tempos and making sure his choruses strove for transparency. His best ''Messiah'' performances showed that even in the face of changing styles, the choral heft could be thrilling.
        In addition to his work with the venerable Oratorio Society, which was founded in 1873 and which he conducted beginning in 1973, he was music director of the Westchester Choral Society for 38 years. He was also music director at the Park Avenue Methodist Church in Manhattan for 38 years, and at Temple Emanu-El in Yonkers for 30 years. In June, he retired as choral director of the Birch Wathen Lenox School in Manhattan after 40 years.
        Mr. Woodside was born in Florence, S.C., on March 23, 1935. He began his musical studies as a pianist, and when his mother became involved in the founding of St. Paul's Methodist Church in Florence, Mr. Woodside played the piano at its first services. After his family moved to Georgia, he began studying the organ. His first full-time musical position was as organist of the First Baptist Church in Waycross, Ga., while he was still in high school.
        Mr. Woodside continued his piano and organ studies at Kent State University in Ohio and at the Cleveland Institute of Music. He also held a job as choirmaster at the First Unitarian Church in Cleveland. He completed his master's degree at the Juilliard School in 1963. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Cleveland Institute in 1991.
        It was almost by accident that he began directing the large amateur choruses for which he was best known. He began his tenure with the Westchester Choral Society as an accompanying organist and took over a rehearsal when a conductor did not show up. When the chorus's conductor resigned, Mr. Woodside was given the position. And when T. Charles Lee resigned as music director of the Oratorio Society of New York in 1973, Mr. Woodside, who was working as an assistant conductor and accompanist, succeeded him.
        During his 32 years as music director of the Oratorio Society, Mr. Woodside maintained a sense of the choir's history. He maintained, for example, its unbroken tradition of ''Messiah'' performances at Carnegie Hall, which goes back to 1891, the year the hall was built. In addition to directing the ensemble's own concert series, Mr. Woodside conducted it in several concerts commemorating Carnegie's anniversaries. One such concert, a commemoration of the hall's 85th year, in 1976, was released on a recording by CBS Masterworks (now Sony-BMG Masterworks). Mr. Woodside won a 1977 Grammy for his participation in that performance.
        Mr. Woodside also toured extensively with the Oratorio Society. Recent tours included visits to China, Russia, Mexico, Costa Rica, France, Italy and England. He also made guest conducting appearances with several European orchestras, including the Salzburg Mozarteum Orchestra, the Prague Symphony, the Solisti di Roma and the English Chamber Orchestra.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane Woodside; a son, Curtis Woodside of Easthampton, N.Y.; a daughter, Kimberly Bogar of Walpole, N.H.; three brothers, Hubert F. Woodside Jr. of Warminster, Pa., Robert L. Woodside of Clearwater, Fla., and Francis Woodside of Clayton, Ga.; and four grandchildren.
      