
        Donald Posner, a leading scholar of Baroque art and 17th- and 18th-century painting in Italy and France, died on Aug. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, said his companion, Joan Leibovitz.
        At his death, Mr. Posner was Ailsa Mellon Bruce Professor of Fine Arts at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, where he had served on the faculty since obtaining his Ph.D. there in 1962. He was deputy director of the institute from 1983 to 2002.
        His doctoral dissertation, on the 16th-century Italian painter Annibale Carracci and his workshop in Rome, was later expanded into a landmark book, ''Annibale Carracci: A Study in the Reform of Italian Painting Around 1590,'' published in 1971.
        His book on the French 18th-century painter Antoine Watteau, published in 1984, is also regarded as a classic in the field. His 1971 article for Art Quarterly, ''Caravaggio's Homo-Erotic Early Works,'' is considered an authoritative as well as tendentious text for the documentation of the painter.
        Born in the Bronx on Aug. 30, 1931, Donald Posner was the first in his family to attend college. He earned a B.A. from Queens College, leaving to serve as a radar specialist with the Air Force in the Korean war before returning to graduate in 1956. He earned a master's degree from Harvard in 1957, then went to the institute to pursue doctoral studies in Baroque art with the legendary Walter Friedlaender.
        Friedlaender, a pioneer in the re-evaluation of Baroque art, was one of the prominent refugees from Nazi Germany and Austria who brought new vigor to the field of art history in America. At the institute, Mr. Posner soon emerged as Friedlaender's heir apparent in the Baroque field.
        Mr. Posner's collaboration with Julius Held, another distinguished Baroque scholar who was part of the German exodus, on the book ''17th and 18th Century Art: Baroque Painting, Sculpture, Architecture'' (1972), was widely admired for its broad erudition and illuminating descriptions of styles and individual works.
        A connoisseur and formalist who spurned postmodern concepts like deconstructionism, Mr. Posner preferred to trust the evidence of what he saw, even if it might seem to contradict a textual document, said Mariët Westermann, director of the institute in a letter notifying colleagues of his death. Besides Ms. Leibovitz, Mr. Posner is survived by his daughter, Anne Posner of Chicago, and a sister, Phyllis Levine of Queens.
      