
        Jay Hammond, who went from bush pilot, trapper and professional hunter to become the fourth governor of Alaska, earning Alaskans' gratitude by giving them annual dividends from gushing new oil revenues, died on Tuesday at his home at Lake Clark, in southwest Alaska. He was 83.
        The National Park Service alerted state troopers that Mr. Hammond's body had been found, according to The Associated Press. Greg Wilkinson, a spokesman for the troopers, told A.P. that the cause of death had not been determined.
        As governor from 1975 to 1982, Mr. Hammond was in office during the two-year construction, ending in 1977, of the 800-mile Trans-Alaska pipeline. Mr. Hammond, a Republican, persuaded voters to approve the establishment of a permanent fund to handle the state's petroleum royalties.
        The fund, which today totals about $30 billion, is used to help cover state expenditures, while interest from it pays the annual dividends. Payments peaked in 2000, with $1,963.86 paid to each person with at least a year's residency in the state; last year's payment was $919.84.
        During Mr. Hammond's term, federal land reserves in Alaska grew sharply, fishery stocks revived and a broad-based tourism industry was established.
        Mr. Hammond became known for balancing his strong advocacy of environmental conservation with political conservatism.
        He insisted in an interview with The New York Times in 1980 that even the dividend given to every Alaskan of every age and income since 1976 had ''a conservative political purpose.'' He said it put a brake on government spending by encouraging politicians to hold down expenditures so there would be more to distribute to people.
        An article by Sean Butler in Dissent magazine this year called the Alaskan dividend the world's only guaranteed income paid by the government to its citizens. Vernon Smith, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, called the fund ''a model governments all over the world would be wise to copy,'' according to the article.
        In Alaska, Mr. Hammond was a local hero. Barrel-chested, bearded and boisterous, he was compared to a Kodiak bear, though few Kodiaks habitually wear a flannel shirt and black beret, as he often did.
        Jay S. Hammond was born in 1922 in Troy, N.Y., and, as the son of a Methodist minister, grew up in a series of small towns, some in Vermont. He spent two years at Pennsylvania State University studying petroleum engineering, then left to enlist in the Marines and became a pilot in the South Pacific in World War II. A fellow pilot, a Texan, captured his imagination with tales of his work as a bush pilot in Alaska.
        Mr. Hammond arrived in 1946 in what was then a United States territory in a rickety amphibious biplane. He spent his first two years in Alaska traveling by dog team to trap animals for furs, then worked as a laborer. After suffering a severe back injury lifting a barrel of tar, he enrolled at the University of Alaska, graduating in 1949 with a degree in biology. He then worked as a professional hunter for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
        In 1952, he married Bella Gardiner, the daughter of an Eskimo mother and a man of Scottish descent who came to the state seeking gold. They had two daughters, Dana and Heidi.
        After leaving the governorship, Mr. Hammond returned to flying fishing parties into the wilderness, among other pursuits.
      