
        Ronald F. Scott, the chief designer of the scoop that first tested the composition and strength of the moon's surface, establishing that man's first small step there could be taken safely, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, his son Grant said.
        Formally known as a soil mechanics surface sampler, the scoop traveled to the moon aboard the unmanned crafts Surveyor 3 in 1967 and Surveyor 7 the next year. The Surveyor missions assessed the lunar surface in preparation for the Apollo 11 landing of 1969.
        A longtime faculty member at the California Institute of Technology, Dr. Scott was a noted expert in soil engineering, the branch of civil engineering that traditionally deals with earthly phenomena like landslides, earthquakes and where to put buildings.
        Before man could walk on the moon, scientists had to determine just what it was he would be walking on. What was the moon's crust made of? Was it fine and powdery like flour, as some had speculated, or more granular, like sand? Could it support the weight of a man, not to mention his spacecraft?
        Until the late 60's, with little practical way to answer these questions, some scientists feared that astronauts and their landing module might sink deeply, perhaps fatally, into an engulfing sea of dust.
        A steel-jawed, boxlike device, the lunar scoop was a little bigger than a human hand. It was mounted on a gooseneck arm and could extend five feet from the Surveyor. It could dig, scrape and compress the lunar surface to test its structure and bearing strength.
        Examining the test results, relayed to Earth in photographs and by radio, a scientific team led by Dr. Scott concluded that the moon's surface could support a manned landing.
        Ronald Fraser Scott was born in London on April 9, 1929, and raised in Perth, Scotland. He earned a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from the University of Glasgow in 1951, a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1953 and a doctorate from M.I.T. in 1955.
        Dr. Scott joined the Caltech faculty in 1958; at his retirement in 1998 he was the Dottie and Dick Hayman Professor of Engineering. An authority on the mechanics of soils during earthquakes, Dr. Scott was also a member of the team that analyzed the lunar samples brought back by Apollo astronauts. In the 1970's, he designed a telescoping soil scoop for use on the Viking missions to Mars.
        Besides his son, of Allentown, Pa., Dr. Scott is survived by his wife, the former Pamela Wilkinson; two other sons: Rod, of Altadena; and Craig, of Windsor, Calif.; and seven grandchildren.
        On July 16, 1969, Neil Armstrong stepped onto a firm, sturdy moon. Millions recall his epochal first words. But perhaps only Dr. Scott and a few colleagues strained eagerly for what came next.
        Mr. Armstrong's next words, as Dr. Scott recalled in an interview with CNN in 1994, were: ''I sink in about an eighth of an inch. I've left a print on the surface.''
        Correction:  August 30, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about R.F. Scott, chief designer of the scoop that first tested the moon's surface, misstated the date on which Neil Armstrong first set foot on the moon. It was July 20, 1969, not July 16.
      