
        Dr. Morris Ziff, an expert in rheumatic diseases who investigated how the body sometimes turns on itself to cause such illnesses, died on Aug. 22 in Dallas. He was 91.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Dr. Ziff, who trained at New York University and taught there in the 1950's, was a former director of the Harold C. Simmons Arthritis Research Center at the University of Texas. He was an early expert in the causes and molecular mechanism of rheumatoid arthritis and similar diseases.
        Originally a chemist interested in how blood clots, Dr. Ziff later attended medical school and began research in rheumatic diseases, including arthritis, scleroderma and polymyositis.
        Working in the 50's and 60's, and after discoveries in the 1930's of a signature antibody in the bloodstream of arthritis patients, Dr. Ziff traced the source of the antibody to joints inflamed by arthritis. A test for the antibody, the rheumatoid factor, has become a leading method to diagnose the disease.
        In later research, Dr. Ziff was co-discoverer of other markers in the bloodstream of damage to the joints caused by rheumatic fever and other diseases, said Dr. Daniel W. Foster, an endocrinologist and the former chairman of internal medicine at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center.
        Morris Ziff was born in Brooklyn. He received an undergraduate degree and, in 1937, a doctorate in chemistry from N.Y.U. He graduated from the medical school at the university in 1948.
        Dr. Ziff practiced at Bellevue Hospital in New York City and at Veterans Administration Hospital. After moving to the University of Texas Health Science Center in 1958, now known as UT Southwestern, he was named a professor of internal medicine.
        Dr. Ziff was appointed director of the University of Texas arthritis research center in 1983 and continued to practice into the 90's.
        From 1965 to 1966, he was president of the American Rheumatism Association. He was awarded the Joseph J. Bunim Medal of the Pan-American Congress of Rheumatology in 1982.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Jacqueline Miller; two sons, Dr. Edward Ziff of Manhattan, a neuroscientist at N.Y.U., and Dr. David Ziff of Chapel Hill, N.C., a psychologist; a stepdaughter, Linda Gillentine of Abilene, Tex.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      