
        Dr. Sidney Carter, a Columbia University neurologist and clinician who helped to found and define the field of pediatric neurology in the 1950's, died on Jan. 16 in a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 92.
        He had had a series of strokes, his family said.
        At a time when children with epilepsy and other neurological disorders were primarily treated by pediatricians, Dr. Carter set out to establish training programs and certifications for neurologists to diagnose and treat diseases among children. After arriving at Columbia as an instructor in neurology in 1947, he observed that specialists for children were uncommon at any hospital.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Carter and others persuaded the National Institutes of Health to support training fellowships specifically designed for pediatric neurology, creating guidelines for neurology residents to study multiple sclerosis in children, optic neuritis and other disorders.
        Dr. Timothy A. Pedley, chairman of Columbia's neurology department, said that pediatric interest ''existed before Carter, but he made it the exclusive focus of his own activities.'' In addition to his clinical work, Dr. Carter wrote, or contributed to, more than 80 academic papers on cerebral palsy, mental retardation and optic atrophy.
        Sidney Carter was born in Boston. He graduated from Dartmouth and received his medical degree from Boston University in 1938.
        Columbia named Dr. Carter a professor of neurology in 1962, and he continued to teach there until retiring in 1978. He then remained in practice for an additional 13 years, as chief of neurology at Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y.
        He also held clinical appointments at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., and Montefiore in the Bronx.
        He was chosen as president of the American Academy of Neurology in 1969. In 1978 and 1979, he was president of the American Neurological Association.
        Dr. Carter is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Elizabeth Crosby. The couple lived in Yonkers before moving to Mashpee in 1991.
        He is also survived by three sons, Jeffrey, of Washington; Jonathan, of Kittery Point, Me.; and Jeremy, of Mashpee; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      