
        Max Velthuijs, a Dutch author and illustrator whose playful stories of Frog and friends have provided children worldwide with parables about prejudice, fear, charity and love, died on Tuesday in the Netherlands. He was 81 and lived in The Hague.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family told Agence France-Presse.
        Mr. Velthuijs (pronounced VELT-house) wrote and illustrated more than 20 children's books, many featuring the curious and trusting Frog, painted in simple lines and dressed in red-and-white-striped shorts. In straightforward stories that have been translated into at least 14 languages, Mr. Velthuijs captured childhood experiences while offering life lessons to children as young as 3.
        With friends Pig, Duck and Hare, who all appear to be his size, Frog copes with the cold in ''Frog in Winter'' (1993) and confronts a scary noise in ''Frog Is Frightened'' (1995). In ''Frog in Love'' (1989), the first book to become popular worldwide, Frog is smitten with Duck. ''A frog and a duck,'' the book says in closing. ''Green and white. Love knows no boundaries.''
        Last year Mr. Velthuijs received the prestigious Hans Christian Andersen Medal for Illustration. The International Board on Books for Young People, which gives the award, described his stories as ''miniature morality plays for our age.''
        Mr. Velthuijs teaches about prejudice in ''Frog and the Stranger'' (1994) when Frog befriends Rat despite the warnings of animals who have not met him.
        ''You have to be careful of rats,'' Duck warns. ''They're a thieving lot.'' But friendship wins out.
        This story and two others were staged last year in the well-received children's musical ''Kikker,'' the Dutch word for frog, at the New Victory Theater off Times Square.
        Mr. Velthuijs was born on May 22, 1923, in The Hague, where his father was a schoolmaster, according to a profile in Bookbird: A Journal of International Children's Literature. He studied painting and graphic design at the Academy of Visual Arts in Arnhem and then worked in publishing and advertising as a graphic designer. He began illustrating children's books in 1962 and soon began writing as well.
      