
        Nurcholish Madjid, a prominent Muslim scholar in Indonesia who was instrumental in persuading President Suharto to step down, died here on Monday. He was 66. The cause was liver and kidney failure, according to Pondok Hospital in Jakarta.
        Mr. Madjid, known as the conscience of his nation, preached a moderate form of Islam that has come under increasing pressure in the last few years. Soft-spoken but steadfast in his belief that Indonesia must remain a secular state, Mr. Madjid flirted with running for the presidency last year.
        In 1998, when Jakarta was rocked by anti-Suharto demonstrations, Mr. Madjid visited the general at the presidential palace and told him it was time to leave. The next day, President Suharto announced his resignation.
        Mr. Madjid grew up on the main Indonesian island of Java. He attended a rural Islamic boarding school and an Islamic university in Jakarta where he was a prominent student leader. He emerged as a strong anti-Communist who tried to work within President Suharto's authoritarian system to achieve democratic change.
        In 1968, one of his early writings, ''Modernization Is Rationalization, Not Westernization,'' stated his theme that Islam could thrive in a modern democratic society. In 1984, he received a doctorate from the University of Chicago; his dissertation was on reason and revelation in Islam.
        Even within the broadly tolerant strain of Islam in Indonesia, Mr. Madjid was frequently attacked at home for what was perceived as his liberal interpretation of Islam. He traveled often to Europe and the Middle East to speak on the compatibility of democracy and Islam. He was an Eisenhower Fellow in the United States in 1990.
        After the collapse of President Suharto's government, Mr. Madjid was often asked to run for president but demurred, preferring to play a behind-the-scenes role. Last year, he staged a brief candidacy but dropped out after a poor showing in opinion polls.
        He is survived by his wife, Omi Komaria; a daughter, Nadya Madjid; and a son, Ahmad Mikail Madjid.
        Mr. Madjid wrote frequently on Islam and on the common threads of the major religions.
        One of his most popular books was ''Doors to God,'' and he often said the emphasis in the first word of the title was on the plural.
      