
        Robert W. Funk, founder of the Jesus Seminar, a consortium of Bible scholars who popularized a wave of studies that raised doubts about whether the deeds and sayings attributed to Jesus were historically authentic, died on Sept. 3 at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was lung failure after surgery in July to remove a brain tumor, his wife, Char Matejovsky, said.
        Mr. Funk's provocative scholarship garnered attention in part because of his credentials. He had been a revered translator of Greek, an expert in biblical parables and chairman of the graduate department of religion at Vanderbilt University. His colleagues named him executive secretary of the Society of Biblical Literature, the leading association of Bible scholars.
        But when he retired from the University of Montana in 1986, he began to pursue a controversial line of inquiry.
        He founded the Westar Institute in Santa Rosa, a religious studies research institution that undertook as its first initiative the Jesus Seminar. At its peak the seminar included about 200 Bible scholars, who met twice a year to advance what they called ''the search for the historical Jesus.''
        The approach was not new, initiated about 200 years before, but it had fallen in and out of favor, and Mr. Funk and others thought it was due for a revival.
        ''We are going to inquire simply, rigorously after the voice of Jesus, after what he really said,'' Mr. Funk said at the opening session.
        With scholars like Marcus Borg, John Dominic Crossan and Burton Mack among its fellows, the seminar produced studies and books that called into question many of the miracles connected with Jesus in the New Testament, like the virgin birth, his walking on water and the resurrection.
        Mr. Funk captured the public's imagination by inventing a system in which the scholars voted on the reliability of biblical passages using different colored beads: red for accurate beyond a doubt, pink for probable, gray for possible but unreliable and black for improbable.
        When the counts were tallied, there were gray or black beads for 82 percent of Jesus' biblical sayings, and 84 percent of his deeds. Seminar scholars published books in which the acts and sayings of Jesus were printed in colors corresponding to the vote tallies -- an innovation Mr. Funk created as a counterpoint to the popular ''red letter'' Bibles, in which the words of Jesus are printed in red.
        Mr. Funk's best-known books based on the work of the seminar are ''The Five Gospels: The Search for the Authentic Words of Jesus'' (1993) and ''The Acts of Jesus: The Search for the Authentic Deeds of Jesus'' (1998).
        Mr. Funk and the Jesus Seminar were attacked by some scholars and theological conservatives, most prominent among them Luke Timothy Johnson, a professor of New Testament and Christian origins at the Candler School of Theology at Emory University.
        ''It was not very good scholarship, not very good history,'' Professor Johnson said. ''Americans love elections: Is Jesus going to win as messiah or not, tune in tomorrow and see how the seminar votes.''
        Professor Johnson said the Jesus Seminar promoted a ''false dichotomy'' between ''the life of the mind or the life of faith, and now there's an awful lot of people in this country on both sides of the dichotomy who think it can't be bridged.''
        But the seminar was embraced by many theologically liberal churches and Christians who said such scholarship bolstered their belief rather than undermined it. Mr. Funk and other Jesus Seminar scholars traveled to churches around the country presenting dozens of seminars each year, a program that continues.
        ''The Jesus Seminar really managed to put Jesus scholarship on the national agenda,'' said Karen L. King, a professor of the history of early Christianity at Harvard Divinity School, and a Westar Institute fellow. ''Bob recognized as we all did that the academy had become isolated from the public, but he made it a priority to communicate biblical scholarship with the public rather than expecting some kind of trickle-down effect through journals or churches.''
        Mr. Funk was born in Evansville, Ind., on July 18, 1926, and earned his bachelor's of divinity and master's degrees at Butler University and its affiliated Christian Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. at Vanderbilt University. He was a Guggenheim Fellow and a Senior Fulbright Scholar.
        He taught at Texas Christian University, Harvard Divinity School, Emory, Drew University and Vanderbilt before settling at the University of Montana in 1969.
        His marriage to Micki Funk Wolstad ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Ms. Matejovsky, of Santa Rosa; two daughters, Andrea Ray of Eugene, Ore., and Stephanie McFarland of Portland, Ore., three grandchildren; and a brother, Charles Anthony Foster of Tampa.
      