
        Charles Capen McLaughlin, who edited the tens of thousands of papers of Frederick Law Olmsted, the designer of Central Park and much more, making Olmsted's remarkable life accessible to both general readers and researchers, died on Sept. 2 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76.
        His daughter, Ellen McLaughlin, said the cause was pneumonia after a heart attack.
        Olmsted's influence on the appearance of man-made landscapes in North America is impossible to overestimate. He designed 20 great city parks, planned the first of his many college campuses for Berkeley in 1864 and outlined a national policy for preserving forest scenery. He originated the American version of the grand parkways of Europe, planned the grounds of the United States Capitol and gave form to the concept of planned suburbs.
        Earlier, Olmsted traveled through the South as a journalist, and his books are among the most frequently cited sources on the Old South and slavery. During the Civil War he was secretary of the United States Sanitary Commission and pioneered concepts of public health.
        Mr. McLaughlin spent decades combing through 60,000 letters and other documents and produced books of Olmsted's firsthand material with easy-to-read introductions.
        Johns Hopkins University Press has already published five of nine planned volumes of the documents, with the sixth to come out next year. It also plans three volumes of supplementary material, like photographs and actual plans; the first has already been printed.
        In reviewing the first volume in 1977, Christopher Tunnard wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The man himself is now beginning to emerge.''
        Mr. McLaughlin, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., was born in Boston on Jan. 20, 1929, and graduated from Yale, from which he also earned a doctorate in American studies. He taught subjects including intellectual history, urban studies and the history of landscape architecture for many years at American University in Washington.
        As a child, Mr. McLaughlin was fascinated by train travel and began to notice the ugliness of cities on these trips, his daughter said. This led to an interest in urban planning and parks. As a graduate student at Harvard, he studied with Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr., who edited one of Olmsted's books on the South, ''The Cotton Kingdom.''
        In 1952 Mr. McLaughlin married the former Ann Landis, who survives him, along with their daughter, of Nyack, N.Y., and their son, John Carten McLaughlin of San Francisco.
        In 1955, Mr. McLaughlin, then a Harvard graduate student, and his wife were hospitalized for nearly a year with polio. While they were in the hospital, Laura Wood Roper, in the early stages of her biography of Olmsted, visited Mr. McLaughlin and proposed that he edit the papers, to which she still had exclusive access, The New York Times reported in 1977.
        The next year, the McLaughlins went to Washington to choose the first Olmsted letters to be annotated for a project that was to become Mr. McLaughlin's dissertation. At the Library of Congress, the staff of the manuscript division brought out 35 boxes of letters on book trucks. Mr. McLaughlin burst into tears and called Ms. Roper.
        She told the couple to come directly to her house in Georgetown for whiskey sours and lunch. With her help, 300 of the original 24,000 letters were chosen. The dissertation eventually consisted of 35 letters from all periods of Olmsted's life.
        ''There is a strange, Godlike, omniscient feeling one sometimes achieves in editing,'' Mr. McLaughlin told The Times. ''The writer of the letter doesn't know how it is all going to come out, but, ah, the editor does.
        ''An eerie sense of realism is created. We know what time it is, what the weather is and what the captain of the Monitor had for breakfast and what happened to those troops going over the brow of the hill and whose handsome brick mansion has been turned into an emergency hospital.''
        Charles E. Beveridge, who long collaborated with Mr. McLaughlin in editing the Olmsted series, said in an interview on Friday that interest in Olmsted was set off by the 150th anniversary of his birth, in 1972. The National Gallery in Washington and the Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan exhibited his work.
        Federal money, first from the National Historical Publications and Records Commission and then the National Endowment for the Humanities, became available.
        Olmsted's exact words then became politically useful to people trying to restore Central Park and Prospect Park in Brooklyn, also a creation of Olmsted and his partner Calvert Vaux. In 1980, the National Association of Olmsted Parks was formed in Boston, with Mr. McLaughlin as a founding member.
        Mr. McLaughlin wrote long, thoughtful introductions to the books he edited, often showcasing Olmsted's human side. In Volume 3, Olmsted explained his driving ambition to create a wonderful Central Park:
        ''A great deal of disappointed love and unsatisfied romance and downtrodden pride fastened itself to that passion.''
        Mr. McLaughlin likened his work to an endless jigsaw puzzle, and in long annotations he discussed complicated issues like Olmsted's views on the economics of slavery. (He considered it unprofitable.)
        The selection process was far from easy, Mr. Beveridge said. ''We simply chose those letters that absolutely need to be known and read,'' he said.
        In Volume 2, Mr. McLaughlin published only the dispatches Olmsted sent to The New-York Daily Times and The New York Daily Tribune that were not published in Olmsted's own books. David Herbert Donald, reviewing Volume 2 in The Times Book Review, mentioned several fascinating discoveries revealed in the book.
        One was that Olmsted visited only seven plantations, four of which were in the Maryland-Virginia area, not in the deep South. Another was that the letters were not written on the spot but in New York and published three years after he left the South. The editors had also shown that Olmsted, when revising his letters for publication, had supplied background, deleted passages that reflected favorably on the South and added new material not based on firsthand observation, to give a more negative view of slavery than the one in the letters he actually sent from the South.
      