
        Chris Schenkel, whose versatility and genial style made him one of the most important sports broadcasters from the 1950's to the 1970's, died yesterday at Lutheran Hospital in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 82.
        Mr. Schenkel had emphysema for many years and recently had complications from ulcer surgery, his wife, Fran, said by telephone.
        Like many of his well-known contemporaries, Mr. Schenkel glided easily through many sports, including football, basketball, boxing, golf, horse racing, the Olympics and bowling, which he called for 36 years.
        Mr. Schenkel came to prominence in 1952 as the television voice of the football Giants; his baritone became the vocal accompaniment to the team's loss to the Baltimore Colts in the 1958 National Football League championship game, a seminal broadcast in the league's history.
        His time was one in which play-by-play announcers were usually less talkative than they are now and rarely critical, and they traveled with the players.
        Frank Gifford, the Giants' Hall of Fame halfback, said yesterday: ''We could talk with Chris about anything. You'd tell him to watch for something in the game, and you didn't have to worry that he'd tell that to someone with the Bears. He was part of the family.'' But, he added, ''If there was one critique of him, as the business changed, it was that he was such a nice guy.''
        Mr. Schenkel, popular locally and nationally through calling the Giants, the Triple Crown horse races and the Masters golf tournament on CBS, had his profile enlarged after he was hired by ABC Sports in 1965.
        ''It was Chris Schenkel who put ABC Sports on the map,'' said Dennis Lewin, a former ABC executive. ''It was Chris who gave us credibility.''
        Along with Curt Gowdy on NBC, Mr. Schenkel embodied the role of the big-game announcer, as ABC's primary Olympic anchorman and its top college football, National Basketball Association and bowling announcer.
        Mr. Schenkel's career coincided with the rise of the color analyst, former players and coaches hired to provide greater insight into the games.
        ''I saw the need for someone with better depth than I,'' he told The New York Times in 1993, alluding to a roster of partners that included Bud Wilkinson on college football and Bill Russell on the N.B.A. ''I got criticized that I was coddling these guys, but I had confidence in my own ability.''
        His career took a detour at the Summer Olympics in Munich 1972, when he was replaced as ABC's lead anchor by Jim McKay on the day Palestinian terrorists took hostage, then killed 11 members of the Israeli Olympic team. Roone Arledge, the president of ABC Sports, preferred Mr. McKay because of his journalistic past as a newspaperman.
        ''I was Roone's fair-haired boy for quite a while,'' Mr. Schenkel said in the book ''Up Close and Personal,'' by Jim Spence, a former ABC Sports executive. But eventually, he said, ''Roone downgraded me every time he got a chance,'' by removing him from one assignment after another.
        Mr. Schenkel grew up on a farm in Bippus, Ind. The radio sportscasts of Ted Husing and Bill Stern fascinated him, but he also showed a musical bent, as part of a duo with his younger brother, Phil, that played live shows and performed on the radio. Mr. Schenkel sang and played guitar; in later years, he indulged his love of jazz piano with his friend Eddie Condon.
        Mr. Schenkel earned a pre-med degree at Purdue University, a path that was inspired by his family doctor, but he still pursued sportscasting.
        He is survived by his wife, Fran, a former June Taylor dancer; two sons, Ted and John; a daughter, Christina; and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Schenkel was involved in American Indian affairs; in 1974, decades after Mr. Schenkel's father confronted bigotry against descendants of the local Miami Indians, the tribe's council made him an honorary chieftain, calling him Mo-Nu, which means speaker: one liked by all people.
        Despite his varied career, Mr. Schenkel knew that he might be best remembered for calling the Professional Bowlers Association Tour, which he remained with until ABC stopped carrying it in 1997.
        ''I grew up with bowling,'' Mr. Schenkel said. ''I never looked down on it. I've enjoyed it as much as anything except the Olympics.''
      