
        John H. Slade, a former star athlete in Germany who fled the country in the 1930's and over the next seven decades established a career as a prominent investment banker on Wall Street, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97 and was believed to be the oldest active member of the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Slade's granddaughter Marina Smith confirmed the death.
        At his death, Mr. Slade was a senior managing director of Bear Stearns, where he had worked since arriving in the United States in 1936. He was named an executive vice president and a director of the firm when it went public in 1985; at various times he oversaw its international, risk arbitrage and convertible bond departments.
        Mr. Slade was also a former Olympic field hockey player, representing the United States at the 1948 Games in London.
        Mr. Slade was born Hans Schlesinger in Frankfurt on May 30, 1908, to a prosperous family. As a young man, he was considered one of the best hockey goalies in the country and was widely expected to compete in the 1936 Olympics in Berlin. But in 1935, the advent of the Nuremburg laws, which deprived Jews of many legal rights, made it increasingly hard for him to compete. He left the country the next year.
        He arrived in New York with $50 and a letter of introduction to Bear Stearns, where he got a job as a runner at $15 a week. He built his career by going down to the docks, meeting German refugees at the boats and signing them up as clients. He became a partner in the firm in 1951.
        Mr. Slade, who Americanized his name shortly after arriving in New York, served in the United States Army during the war; his duties included interrogating German prisoners of war at the front. He was awarded a Bronze Star for his service.
        In 1948, at 40, he competed in the Olympics as the goalie of the United States men's field hockey team. Though the team lost all its games and was eliminated early, Mr. Slade often said that playing there was one of the signal events of his life.
        After an early marriage ended in divorce, Mr. Slade married the former Margit Steinharter in 1943. She died in 1975. Besides his granddaughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by his third wife, the former Marianne Hodos; two daughters from his second marriage, Barbara Bolsterli of Geneva and Nicole Weinberg of London; another granddaughter, Tamara Gillette, of Boston; and a grandson, Jonathan Weinberg, of Philadelphia. Another grandson, Andrew Bolsterli, died in 1998.
        For half a century, Mr. Slade published ''John Speaking,'' a well-thumbed weekly market newsletter first distributed by telex and, in recent years, by fax and e-mail. Until just before his death, he continued to work at Bear Stearns, sitting in the thick of things on the company's trading floor. He favored old standards like I.B.M.
        ''For me, it's a sport,'' Mr. Slade told NBC News in 2000. ''I compete with the market. I have opinions, and then I find out if the market is right or I am right.''
      