
        Sir Hermann Bondi, an astronomer and mathematician whose ideas about cosmology shaped an important theory about the origin of the universe, and who later became a leading science adviser to the British government, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 85.
        His death was confirmed by Sir Martin Rees, the astronomer royal. While working on the development of radar for the British Admiralty in the 1940's, Mr. Bondi joined forces with two potent scientific minds, Fred Hoyle and Thomas Gold. Together, they formulated their theory, which they called the steady-state theory of cosmology, and announced it in 1948.
        The theory holds that the universe has remained constant and infinite, without a definite beginning, and with a continuous creation of new matter. Mr. Bondi was credited with working on the mathematics of the steady-state theory and collaborating with Mr. Gold and Mr. Hoyle on the astrophysics. The theory still has its adherents, but the Big Bang has come to dominate scientific thinking about the origins of the universe.
        P. James E. Peebles, a cosmologist and emeritus professor of physics at Princeton, described the steady-state theory as ''an audacious idea with an important effect on the growth of cosmology.''
        ''It pushed many astronomers to develop tests to challenge the theory,'' Dr. Peebles said. ''As a result, we have found new methods to measure the evolution and geometry of the universe.''
        Mr. Bondi explained the steady-state theory and compared it with other theories in the book ''Cosmology'' (1952). Dr. Peebles described the work as an early and authoritative overview of the subject. But later measurements of microwave radiation have led to the Big Bang's broad scientific acceptance.
        Geoffrey R. Burbidge, a research professor of physics at the University of California, San Diego, said Sir Hermann's later work led to a concept known as Bondi accretion, which describes how X-rays can be produced by gas falling from one star to another.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Bondi became a vigorous advocate for space exploration and was appointed director general of the European Space Research Organization in 1967. In that role, he tried to link the space programs -- and often competing interests -- of Western European countries, as they struggled to keep up with a series of successful missions by the United States and Soviet Union.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1969, he acknowledged the ''natural desire of individual governments to keep matters under their sovereign control.''
        But, he added: ''In space, as in many fields, the advantages of a broad base are increasing all the time. It is therefore a vital interest of all countries to master these problems of working together.''
        Mr. Bondi then turned to advising the British government, and from 1971 to 1977 he was chief scientific adviser to the Ministry of Defense. He was knighted in 1973, and later appointed chief scientist for the Department of Energy, a post that he held until 1980.
        In an earlier application of his wide-ranging insight, he prepared a report on the flooding that submerged much of London in 1953. That report helped consolidate support for construction of the Thames Barrier.
        Hermann Bondi was born in Vienna. He had a long association with Cambridge University and graduated from Trinity College after a wartime interruption of his studies while interned as an alien national in Canada, an incident he chronicled in an autobiography, ''Science, Churchill and Me'' (1990).
        He lectured in mathematics at Cambridge before becoming a professor of mathematics at King's College, London, from 1954 to 1971. He was master of Churchill College, Cambridge, from 1983 to 1990.
        Sir Hermann is survived by his wife, the former Christine Stockman, a physicist, and by five children.
      