
        Stanley Burnshaw, a consummate man of letters who was not only a poet, critic, translator, editor, publisher and novelist, but also skilled at setting type by hand, died yesterday on Martha's Vineyard. He was 99.
        Susan Copen Oken, his wife, confirmed his death.
        Mr. Burnshaw roamed the peaks of the literary world, famously dueling with Wallace Stevens over poetry and politics; publishing and editing work by his friend Robert Frost; writing a biography of Frost; and publishing important books by Lionel Trilling.
        His own creative career spanned more than 70 years: five of his poems were published in 1927 in ''The American Caravan: A Yearbook of American Literature,'' of which Lewis Mumford was an editor, and he published his final book, a poetry anthology, in 2002.
        ''No one moved so widely and so well in so many avenues of literary creation and production,'' Thomas F. Staley, director of the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin, said in an interview yesterday.
        Morris Dickstein, the literary critic and English professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, said the strongest continuous thread in Mr. Burnshaw's intellectual journey was poetry. Mr. Burnshaw's 1970 book, ''The Seamless Web,'' which probed the origins of poetic creativity, is probably his best known.
        ''His extraordinary literary sensibility centers in poetry,'' Mr. Dickstein said in an interview yesterday.
        Stanley Burnshaw was born in Manhattan on June 20, 1906, to Eastern European immigrants. His father was a star student at Columbia but gave up an intellectual career to establish an orphanage in Westchester County in 1912. His goal was to turn the children into Renaissance men and women, and his son was a beneficiary of his intellectually rigorous experiment.
        Mr. Burnshaw graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1925, then worked in advertising for a steel mill. He published a little magazine, Poetry Folio, and set type by hand. In 1927, he went to France to study, and became acquainted with the poet André Spire.
        His first book was ''André Spire and His Poetry'' (1933), in which he explained Spire's innovative free verse. Eda Lou Walton, writing in The New York Times, called his study ''one of the very few intelligent analyses'' of this style of poetry in English.
        Between the trip and the book, he returned to advertising and also earned a master's degree from Cornell. Unable to find a teaching job, he became an editor at The New Masses, a Communist weekly.
        In 1935, he reviewed Wallace Stevens's ''Ideas of Order'' for the magazine, describing Stevens as ''a man who, having lost his footing, now scrambles to stand up and keep his balance.''
        Stevens, who was trying to respond to the social breakdown of the Depression, was enraged to be attacked on political grounds, and responded with a poem titled ''Mr. Burnshaw and the Statue.'' (Mr. Burnshaw replied 25 years later in The Sewanee Review.)
        Mr. Burnshaw then wrote two stridently leftist works, one a book of poems and the other a verse play exploring the effects of technology distorted by greed. He was never actually a member of the Communist Party, and his rejection of Marxism as a solution to society's problems was signaled in 1945 with ''The Revolt of the Cats in Paradise,'' a book-length prose poem.
        In the late 1930's, Mr. Burnshaw became editor-in-chief of the Cordon Company, a publishing house, and then president of his own house, Dryden Press, which merged with Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1958. He stayed on with Holt and edited Frost's final works.
        Mr. Burnshaw recruited Trilling to speak at Frost's 85th-birthday celebration in 1959, a speech remembered for inspiring darker, more pessimistic interpretations of Frost's vision. Mr. Burnshaw also wrote ''Robert Frost Himself'' (1986), a biography many reviewers considered more balanced than some previous ones.
        Mr. Burnshaw's own poetry drew high praise. James Dickey wrote in The Times Book Review that ''Caged in an Animal's Mind'' (1963) ''fused the European daring and total surrender to the unconscious -- call it imagination or something less.''
        ''The Seamless Web,'' his book on poetics, the art and craft of creating and comprehending poetry, argued that the poetry experience was primal, almost biological. John Leonard applauded his gentle approach in The Times.
        ''The man has written an important, challenging, exciting book, without ever asking us to admire him,'' he wrote. ''He is all the more admirable for his reticence.''
        In his 1960 book, ''The Poem Itself: Forty-five Modern Poets in New Presentation,'' Mr. Burnshaw offered a new way to look at poems in another language. Each of the poems (all were from Europe or South America) was printed in its original language and followed by a line-by-line translation and an analysis of its construction. In effect, the book was a do-it-yourself translation kit. In 1965, he did a similar book on modern Hebrew poems.
        In 1981, Mr. Burnshaw published ''The Refusers,'' a trilogy of novels about what he saw as the paradox of Judaism: ''the seeming impossibility of belief in a just God of history and its necessity.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Burnshaw is survived by his daughter, Valerie Razavi of Manhattan, and a grandson.
        Professor Staley said that Mr. Burnshaw was one of the first poets to write poems about the environment, and that he never stopped. At the beginning of his career, he reasoned that Communists would not hurt the earth to make a profit. At the end, taking better care of nature fit in with his writings about poetry as a living thing.
        ''End of the Flower-World,'' a poem Mr. Burnshaw wrote in 1924 when he was 19, ends with this stanza:
        Fear no more for trees, but mourn instead
        The children of these strange, sad men: their hearts
        Will hear no music but the song of death.
      