
        Donn Clendenon, the most valuable player in the 1969 World Series, when he hit three home runs to help propel the team known as the Miracle Mets to a five-game triumph over the Baltimore Orioles, died Saturday at his home in Sioux Falls, S.D. He was 70.
        His death was announced by the George Boom Funeral Home in Sioux Falls. He had had leukemia for many years.
        When the Mets stunned the baseball world in 1969, winning the National League pennant by overtaking the Cubs after a ninth-place finish in a 10-team league in 1968, the bizarre seemed almost commonplace.
        One of the strangest moments came at Shea Stadium in the sixth inning of Game 5 in the World Series, with the Orioles ahead by 3-0.
        Cleon Jones, leading off, was allowed to take first base when Mets Manager Gil Hodges proved to the home-plate umpire, Lou DiMuro, that Jones had been hit by a low curveball. Hodges did it by showing how the pitch delivered by Dave McNally was smudged with polish from Jones's shoe.
        Clendenon, the Mets' first baseman and the next hitter, hit a home run off the auxiliary scoreboard of the left-field loge seats to make it 3-2. The Mets tied the score in the seventh inning on a homer by Al Weis, a little-noticed infielder, and scored two in the ninth for a 5-3 victory and the World Series championship.
        Clendenon had hit home runs in Games 2 and 4, and he finished the Series with 5 hits in 14 at-bats for a .357 batting average, four runs batted in and four runs scored. His 3 home runs and 15 total bases set records for a five-game Series.
        Clendenon made his major league debut with Pittsburgh in 1961 and remained with the Pirates until he was drafted by the expansion Montreal Expos, who began play in 1969. He was traded to the Mets in June 1969, played for them through 1971, then finished his career with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1972.
        A right-handed batter, he hit 159 home runs and had a career batting average of .274 in 12 seasons.
        Clendenon grew up in Atlanta and graduated from Morehouse College in 1956. He obtained a law degree from Duquesne University in 1978, then practiced law in Dayton, Ohio. But at age 50 he became addicted to cocaine. ''I was 49 turning 50; that was kind of like a birthday present for me,'' he told William C. Rhoden of The New York Times in February 2000, recalling his descent into drug addiction. ''I was hooked immediately.''
        He eventually entered a drug rehabilitation facility in Ogden, Utah, then moved to Sioux Falls, where he was general counsel for the Interstate Audit Corporation and worked as a chemical dependency counselor. ''I had to go to a place where I could change my environment, my associates and everything else,'' he said.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne; his sons, Donn Jr., of Philadelphia, and Val, of Atlanta; his daughter, Donna Clendenon, of Sioux Falls; a sister, Yvonne Randall, of Atlanta; and six grandsons.
        When Clendenon was lauded as M.V.P. of the '69 Series, he deflected attention from himself. As he put it, ''There is no most valuable player on this team -- we've got lots of them.''
        Correction:  September 22, 2005, Thursday  An obituary on Monday and in some late editions on Sunday about Donn Clendenon, a star for the Mets in the 1969 World Series, misstated the inning in which they scored two runs to take a 5-3 lead in Game 5 against the Baltimore Orioles and win the championship. It was the eighth, not the ninth.
      