
        Jay M. Gould, a statistician and epidemiologist whose contention that radiation from nuclear power plants was causing high rates of cancer in surrounding neighborhoods made him a leading figure in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 90 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was heart disease, said his daughter Emily Gould.
        Over the last two decades, Dr. Gould routinely warned that low levels of radiation from nuclear reactors were far more dangerous than commonly believed and were quietly poisoning Americans. His research was widely credited with raising awareness about possible safety issues with the nation's 100-plus nuclear reactors, but it was also criticized by much of the scientific community as alarmist.
        Some of his most controversial work, which drew on his background in statistics, involved mining government data for patterns of disease in towns near nuclear reactors. Dr. Gould would often find that cancer and infant mortality rates climbed when reactors were activated, then began to drop when they were closed, a phenomenon he attributed to exposure to small but constant doses of radiation and contaminated groundwater. One of his most frequent targets was Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, which he argued had caused an 11 percent spike in breast cancer rates among women who lived within 15 miles of the site.
        ''I can state as a professional statistician that the probability that the elevated rates in central Suffolk could be due to chance is less than one in 10,000,'' he said in a letter published in The New York Times in 1994.
        But his detractors, particularly the nuclear industry, complained that Dr. Gould and his colleagues were obsessing over amounts of radiation that Americans are exposed to on a daily basis from various sources, like cosmic rays. At the time his research on breast cancer rates in Suffolk County was making headlines, one scientist, Jean Howard of Brookhaven's medical department, said that the largest dose of radiation a person could be inadvertently exposed to from the reactor was actually only one millirem -- about as much as that from a single X-ray at a dentist's office.
        ''There is no evidence in the peer-reviewed scientific literature that would support his hypothesis,'' Dr. Howard said in a letter to The Times in 1996. ''And many scientists unaffiliated with Brookhaven disagree with him.''
        In 1985, Dr. Gould founded the Radiation and Public Health Project, an antinuclear research group. The organization is best known for its ''Tooth Fairy Project,'' which measured levels of a radioactive substance called strontium 90 in baby teeth to determine relative levels in children born near nuclear power plants. In 2001, the group released findings that it said showed that levels of strontium 90 rose by 40 percent in baby teeth in Suffolk County, childhood cancer rates had simultaneously climbed by almost 50 percent.
        Born in Chicago in 1915 and raised in New York, Jay Martin Gould earned his bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and his doctorate from Columbia University. He was originally an economist before getting interested in radiation. In 1970, he started a successful company called Economic Information System, which used computer technology to do economic forecasting.
        After selling the company in 1980, he was appointed to an environmental protection agency advisory board by President Jimmy Carter. It was then that he began using his background in statistics to do studies of mortality rates and toxic waste dumps across the country, which eventually led him to focus on nuclear power plants.
        Dr. Gould was also a prolific writer and frequent critic of the government. One of his most popular books was ''Deadly Deceit: Low-Level Radiation, High-Level Cover-Up'' (Avalon, 1990). In it, he used government and nuclear industry records to argue that health officials had manipulated data to hide the fact that radiation from atom bomb tests, power plants, and even the Chernobyl accident had very likely injured countless Americans.
        Besides his daughter Emily, of Williamstown, Vt., Dr. Gould is survived by his wife of 36 years, Jane Gould; a second daughter, Diana Gould, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.; two stepchildren, Nancy Schwartz of Middletown, Conn., and David Schwartz of Tucson; and two grandchildren.
      