
        Dr. Mansour F. Armaly, an ophthalmologist and researcher who led an early national study of glaucoma and discovered an unusually high incidence of the disease among family members of those who had it, died Aug. 19 at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Armaly (pronounced ARM-uh-lee) was chairman of the ophthalmology department at George Washington from 1970 to 1996.
        He began his 13-year study of glaucoma and heredity in 1960, while he was teaching at the University of Iowa. Researchers from Washington University; the University of California, San Francisco; Iowa; and other institutions tracked about 1,500 patients. Some had close relatives with glaucoma; others had no family history of it.
        Dr. Armaly and others measured the field of vision and fluid pressure within the eye and captured images of the optic nerve. Glaucoma progresses by unregulated pressure within the eye on the optic nerve, cutting blood circulation and causing permanent damage to the nerve to the point of blindness.
        The images taken of the nerve were used to assess and track the eye's deterioration.
        Dr. Allan E. Kolker, a former professor at Washington University in St. Louis who is now in private practice, said the study established that 2 percent to 4 percent of people older than 40 were likely to have abnormalities that could lead to glaucoma.
        The research, financed by the National Institutes of Health, also determined that the incidence of glaucoma was increased about fivefold in those with family histories of the disease.
        The study, said Dr. Kolker, who participated as an investigator, ''gave us a uniform means of studying the disease among many different medical centers and revealed the importance of heredity and family history in making diagnoses.''
        At George Washington, Dr. Armaly continued to study the effects of intraocular and fluid pressures in the eye, enlarged the university's graduate training program and expanded outpatient clinical treatments in ophthalmology.
        Mansour Fareed Armaly was born in Shefa Amr, Palestine, in what is now Israel. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the American University of Beirut.
        He arrived in Iowa, where he earned a master's and, in 1958, was appointed an assistant professor of ophthalmology. He became a full professor in 1966.
        A resident of Washington, he was also a former associate editor of the journal Archives of Ophthalmology.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Aida Makdisi; a daughter, Dr. Raya Armaly Harrison, an ophthalmologist, of Columbia, Md.; a son, Fareed, of Berlin; and two grandchildren.
      