
        Noel Mander, an organ builder who salvaged, repaired and reconstructed organs in London churches damaged in World War II and went on to rebuild and enlarge the great organ in St. Paul's Cathedral, died Sunday at his home in Suffolk, England. He was 93.
        His son John Pike Mander confirmed his death.
        There had been organ builders in Mr. Mander's family since the 18th century, and his affection and appreciation for old organs inspired him to become a leading restorer. In the 1960's, he was part of a movement to reintroduce pipe organs using traditional mechanical equipment rather than the newer electrical kind. He did this first in restoring old organs, then in building new ones, which he sold around the world.
        ''Mander was among the first postwar organ builders to take what was then seen as a radical interest in Britain's organ heritage and the restoration of historic instruments,'' Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians said.
        His achievements included restoring a number of organs by John Snetzler, including one at the chapel of Peterhouse College, Cambridge University, in 1963. An organ he restored at Pembroke College, Cambridge, 16 years later was the first attempt to recreate a late 17th- to early 18th-century English organ from historic remains.
        The business continued with the 40-ton pipe organ Mr. Mander's firm, by then run by his son John, finished in 1993 for the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola on Park Avenue, at 84th Street, in Manhattan. It was the largest mechanical-action organ ever installed in New York City and the largest made by a British builder.
        Perhaps the most dramatic tale about Mr. Mander began when he was a firefighter in London during the Battle of Britain. The Church of St. Mary the Virgin in the City of London sustained a direct hit during one of the Nazis' night bombing raids, and Mr. Mander heard a terrible shrieking coming from the church. He was sickened at the thought that it was the organ's pipes reacting to intense heat.
        The church, built in 1677, was recreated during the 1960's, using much original material, at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., in honor of Winston Churchill's famous Iron Curtain speech at the school in 1946. Using traditional criteria, Mr. Mander built a new organ for the church in 1969.
        After searching for years, Mr. Mander, who was Britain's representative to the Sir Winston Churchill Foundation in Missouri, found a carved oak pulpit from another 17th-century church, also designed by Sir Christopher Wren, and personally presented it in 2003.
        Noel Percy Mander was born on May 12, 1912, near Wrotham, Kent, and brought up in South London. According to his family, he hated school and dropped out to work for a publishing company. He used family contacts to get a job with an organ builder, and went to work for himself in 1936.
        He did not have a workshop, but was allowed to rent part of a church in East London where he worked on the organ. The organ and all his equipment were destroyed in the first air raid on East London, in 1940.
        He then took the firefighter job before joining the Royal Artillery, with which he saw action in North Africa and Italy. He found time to restore the organ in the Algiers Cathedral, for which church officials paid him with a bottle of Cognac.
        After the war, he returned to organs, mostly wrecked ones. He worked closely with the London archdiocese of the Church of England to restore organs in churches that were to be reopened, using parts from organs in churches too damaged to rebuild. He formed his own company, N.P. Mander, Ltd., in 1946.
        In 1948, he married Enid Watson, who survives him, along with their sons John Pike Mander, of London, Edmund Paul Mander, of Manhattan, and Benjamin Richard Mander of Singapore; their daughters Margaret Noel Kistruck, of London, and Ruth Marven Hudson, of Somerset; and eight grandchildren.
        One particular success was the 17th-century organ at Adlington Hall in Cheshire, which was restored in 1958 and 1959. The organ had not been playable for more than a century, and other organ restorers said the job could not be done.
        Possibly his most important job was rebuilding the great organ in St. Paul's Cathedral in advance of Queen Elizabeth II's Silver Jubilee in 1978, celebrating her 25-year reign. The project took five years.
        The next year, Mr. Mander was named a Member of the British Empire. In 1983, he retired.
        He did not lose his passion for detail. In 1992, he wrote a letter to The Times of London complaining that during a restoration some years earlier the spire atop the monument in Hyde Park to Prince Albert, Queen Victoria's consort, had been turned in a different direction.
        ''Let us hope this will be rectified,'' he wrote.
      