
        Urie Bronfenbrenner, an internationally renowned psychologist and authority on child development who in the mid-1960's helped found the federal Head Start program, which aids poor preschool children and their families, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, according to Cornell University, where Dr. Bronfenbrenner was the Jacob Gould Schurman professor emeritus of human development and of psychology.
        Throughout his career, Dr. Bronfenbrenner was concerned with the social forces that in his words, ''make human beings human.'' He argued that an awareness of these forces, chief among them strong family ties, should underpin social policy affecting children and families.
        ''We think of the fact that learning is something you do in school, but what happens in a family enables you to learn in school,'' Dr. Bronfenbrenner told The Syracuse Post-Standard in 1996. ''Not because your parents are teaching you arithmetic, although that won't do any harm; it's because you learn from them how to relate to very complicated things.''
        A member of the Cornell faculty for more than 50 years, Dr. Bronfenbrenner was best known for his pioneering theory of the ecology of human development. Published in book form in 1979, the theory maintained that a person's development is the product of a constellation of forces -- cultural, social, economic, political -- and not merely psychological ones. In later years, the field Dr. Bronfenbrenner created came to be known as bioecology.
        Dr. Bronfenbrenner was also known for his comparative studies of child rearing in other cultures, including the Soviet Union. Among his best-known books is ''Two Worlds of Childhood: U.S. and U.S.S.R.'' (Basic Books/Russell Sage Foundation, 1970), written with John C. Condry Jr.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review in 1971, Jay Haley called it ''a lively and readable book which is the most complete description of Soviet methods of child rearing and education yet available.''
        Urie Bronfenbrenner was born in Moscow on April 29, 1917, and was 6 when his family came to the United States. His father, a neuropathologist, got a job at Letchworth Village, an institution for the developmentally disabled in Rockland County, N.Y.
        His work there left a lasting impression on Urie, who recalled his father's despair when New York City courts sometimes consigned healthy children to the institution.
        ''Before he could unwind the necessary red tape to have them released, it would be too late,'' Dr. Bronfenbrenner told The Washington Post in 1988. ''After a few weeks as one of 80 inmates in a cottage with two matrons, their scores on intelligence tests administered as a compulsory part of the discharge process proved them mentally deficient: that meant remaining in the institution for the rest of their lives.''
        In 1938, Dr. Bronfenbrenner earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell, majoring in music and psychology. He earned a master's in education from Harvard in 1940 and, in 1942, a doctorate in psychology from the University of Michigan. During World War II, he was a psychologist in the Army. After the war, he taught briefly at Michigan before joining the Cornell faculty in 1948.
        Testifying before Congress on a proposed antipoverty bill in 1964, Dr. Bronfenbrenner argued that measures to prevent poverty should be directed in particular toward young children. His testimony produced an invitation to tea with the first lady, Lady Bird Johnson, to discuss the early-childhood programs he had seen abroad.
        ''There was clearly a gleam in Mrs. Johnson's eye and, as she told me on subsequent occasions, this was when her enthusiasm for something like Head Start was kindled,'' Dr. Bronfenbrenner told The Chicago Sun-Times in 1991.
        Dr. Bronfenbrenner was appointed to a federal panel whose recommendations led to the creation of Head Start in 1965. Some 20 million children and family members have taken part in the program since its inception, The Associated Press reported yesterday.
        Dr. Bronfenbrenner is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Liese Price; two sons, Michael, of Seal Beach, Calif., and Steven, of San Anselmo, Calif.; four daughters, Beth Soll of Manhattan; Mary and Kate, of Ithaca; and Ann Stambler of Newton Center, Mass.; 13 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
        Among Dr. Bronfenbrenner's other books are ''The Ecology of Human Development'' (Harvard University, 1979) and, most recently, ''Making Human Beings Human'' (Sage Publications, 2005), which he edited.
        In recent years, Dr. Bronfenbrenner warned increasingly of the breakdown of the social support systems that had once helped American children to thrive.
        ''We've got all kind of forces that are interfering and blocking the process of civilizing human beings and making them competent and responsible,'' he told The Syracuse Post-Standard in 1996. ''As always, it shows itself first in the weakest link in the chain, the ones that are under the greatest stress, which are the poor.''
      