
        Austin Leslie, the New Orleans chef whose fried chicken was considered the gold standard even by the South's most persnickety chefs and whose good-natured swagger inspired a television sitcom, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 71.
        His death was announced by Stanford Barre, who owns Pampy's Creole Kitchen, where Mr. Leslie worked most recently.
        Mr. Leslie, a native of New Orleans, spent two days in the attic of his home after Hurricane Katrina before being evacuated, first to the city's convention center, and then to Atlanta. He was admitted to a hospital on Wednesday with a high fever.
        ''Austin was what the culture of New Orleans was all about,'' Mr. Barre said. ''He was always trying to feed people.''
        Mr. Leslie grew up in the city's kitchens. He started delivering fried chicken and eventually cooked with his aunt Helen DeJean Pollock, who owned Chez Helene in the Seventh Ward of New Orleans. He took over her restaurant in 1975.
        At Chez Helene, Mr. Leslie fused Creole cuisine and the casual food of the local African-American cooks. He made gumbo thickened with filé, served oysters Rockefeller on tin plates and stamped every plate of fried chicken with a smear of chopped parsley and garlic and slices of dill pickle.
        He went on to open two branches of Chez Helene, in the French Quarter of the city and in Chicago and sold his chicken in a string of small shops. An image of his face, with bushy mutton chops and topped with a white yachtsman's cap, decorated the sides of buses in New Orleans.
        The peak of Mr. Leslie's popularity came in 1987, when CBS used the restaurant as inspiration for the sitcom ''Frank's Place.'' Mr. Leslie flew to Hollywood as a consultant, and he often wore a black jacket with the show's logo around his restaurant.
        The show was canceled a year later. Mr. Leslie's fortunes soon turned. In 1989, he declared bankruptcy. He closed his last restaurant, the original Chez Helene, five years later.
        He traveled around the country and even cooked gumbo at a restaurant in Copenhagen. But he longed to get back to New Orleans. In an interview with the Southern food authority John T. Edge for the 2004 book ''Fried Chicken: An American Story,'' Mr. Leslie said: ''There's nothing like cooking Creole food in New Orleans. That's your toughest audience, your best one.''
        By 1996, Mr. Leslie was manning the deep-fat fryer at Jacques-Imo's Café, a raucous New Orleans restaurant. Five years later, he had moved on to Pampy's, where he taught younger chefs his secrets and spent time in the front of the restaurant, shaking hands and telling jokes.
        Mr. Leslie is survived by his wife, Victoria; his daughter, Tracey; and his stepdaughter, Shannon.
        Despite the destruction of Pampy's by the hurricane, Mr. Leslie seemed ready to get back to the kitchen. ''I had just talked to the man two days ago,'' said Mr. Barre, the owner. ''He said, 'Boss, we have to get back to work.'''
      