
        Joseph Smagorinsky, a meteorologist and a pioneer in combining computers and mathematical models to make extended predictions of the weather and ultimately of trends in the global climate, died on Sept. 21 at a nursing home in Skillman, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        From 1955 to 1983, Dr. Smagorinsky was the founding director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, which is on the campus of Princeton University.
        With the development of computers during the 1950's, Dr. Smagorinsky was among an early band of researchers who sought to exploit new methods of numerical weather prediction to extend forecasting past one, or at most two, days.
        Working at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and later for the United States Weather Bureau in Washington, he tested and refined the weather models, which eventually grew to include variables like wind, cloud cover, precipitation, atmospheric pressure and radiation emanating from the earth and sun.
        Basic to the operation of the models were powerful computers, which were often shared with scientists in other fields, sometimes leading to a competition for access.
        Syukuro Manabe, a senior meteorologist at Princeton, recalled that the computer ''became a main factor in Dr. Smagorinsky's success'' and that ''he demonstrated the feasibility of extended-range forecasting by integrating the models with actual observations of our atmosphere, and ocean and continental surfaces.''
        In the 1970's, under the direction of Dr. Smagorinsky, scientists in the fluid dynamics lab, including Dr. Manabe, devised early models for global climate that indicated a historic trend in warming. Their results have been subsequently supported by reports of relatively rapid melting in the Arctic ice masses, including one issued on Wednesday.
        As an administrator, Dr. Smagorinsky led or contributed to international committees to improve global weather forecasts. Coordinated by the World Meteorological Organization, the efforts led to the first use of satellites to measure temperature and moisture, said Norman A. Phillips, a former chairman of the meteorology department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        In 2003, Dr. Smagorinsky and Dr. Phillips, who was also a principal scientist at the National Weather Service, were awarded the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Earth Science from the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. The citation said ''their seminal and pioneering studies'' led to ''an understanding of the general circulation of the atmosphere, including transports of heat and moisture that determine the earth's climate.''
        Joseph Smagorinsky was born in Manhattan. He attended Stuyvesant High School and earned his undergraduate, master's and doctoral degrees from New York University.
        He retired from the government in 1983 but continued his research as a visiting senior fellow at Princeton. In 1986, he was president of the American Meteorological Society. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Smagorinsky is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Margaret Knoepfel. The couple lived in Princeton before moving to Hillsborough, N.J., two years ago.
        Dr. Smagorinsky is also survived by two sons, Frederick, of Montclair, N.J., and Peter, of Athens, Ga.; three daughters, Anne Smagorinsky of Brighton, Mass., Julia Schroeder of Wynnewood, Pa., and Teresa Thompson of Hillsborough; and eight grandchildren.
      