
        William J. Ruane, an investment manager whose extensive philanthropy included revitalizing a block in Harlem with new housing, a health clinic and scholarships for children, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Bob Goldfarb, president of Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, of which Mr. Ruane was chairman.
        Mr. Ruane built a reputation on Wall Street as an old-fashioned value investor expert at delving into a company's business and books to discover hidden worth. The champion of this mode of investing, Warren Buffett, steered many of the company's original customers to Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb.
        The company is best known for its Sequoia Fund, a mutual fund that over all outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 since its inception in 1970, although in some individual years it trailed the popular market index. After management fees are subtracted, the Sequoia Fund returned 15.73 percent annually through Sept. 30, compared with 11.77 percent for the S&P 500.
        Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb managed more than $14 billion, of which $3.5 billion is in Sequoia.
        Mr. Ruane's large contributions to charity centered on educational and mental health causes. One project cultivated reading among children at risk, and another tested children for depression and other suicide risk factors. Still another involved the complete redevelopment of a single block on 118th Street between Fifth and Lenox Avenues in Manhattan. It began with getting buildings on the street to conform with city codes, and grew to include providing children scholarships to a nearby Roman Catholic private school.
        Mr. Ruane applied business principles to the project, giving people bonuses for positive changes in their lives. He bet one man $250 that he could not stop smoking, and was happy to lose the wager. One day each summer, he provided a small carnival with rides on the street, including pony rides.
        William John Ruane was born on Oct. 24, 1925, in Chicago, and grew up in the suburb of Oak Park, Ill. He graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1945 with a cum laude degree in electrical engineering. He immediately joined the Navy and was on the way to Japan when World War II ended.
        After the war, he worked briefly for General Electric, only to discover that he disliked engineering. ''I'm a mechanical idiot,'' he told Forbes in 1999.
        He attended Harvard Business School, later crediting the book ''Security Analysis'' by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd with helping to focus his interest. After graduating in 1949, he went to work for Kidder Peabody, where he remained for almost 20 years.
        In 1950, Mr. Ruane and Mr. Buffett sat in on a seminar by Mr. Graham at Columbia University. In 1969, when Mr. Buffett gave his partners a chance to buy Berkshire Hathaway stock or take cash, Mr. Buffett recommended only one investment manager to those who chose cash: Mr. Ruane.
        Either choice turned out to mean profits of millions of dollars. The Sequoia Fund was so successful that it has been closed to new business since 1982.
        In a letter to Fortune in 1988, Mr. Ruane said he was neither bear nor bull. ''I have always thought of myself as a meek little lamb who is afraid of being fleeced,'' he wrote.
        Much of his tens of millions of dollars in charitable contributions was given anonymously. His adoption of a Harlem street was more visible.
        When he began the project in 1992, packs of wild dogs roamed the block of abandoned and dilapidated buildings. Within eight years, the street had a health clinic, a community center run by the Children's Aid Society and new and rehabilitated housing.
        Mr. Ruane, who had homes in Manhattan and Washington, Conn., is survived by his wife, Joy; his sons William Jr., of Cambridge, Mass., and Thomas, of Washington, Conn.; his daughters Elizabeth Ruane, of Burlington, Vt., and Paige Ruane, of Manhattan; his sister, Patricia Lowry, of Maui, Hawaii; and four granddaughters.
      