
        Jerry Juhl, whose Emmy Award-winning writing gave life to Jim Henson's whimsically irreverent Muppets on television and film, died on Sept. 27 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 67 and made his home in Caspar, Calif.
        The cause of death was complications from pancreatic cancer, diagnosed five weeks earlier, said his wife, Susan Doerr Juhl.
        Mr. Juhl was the head writer for Muppets programs including ''The Muppet Show'' on television and, in some capacity, all the Muppet films, from the first ''Muppet Movie'' in 1979 to ''Muppets From Space'' in 1999.
        ''The Muppet Show,'' a vaudevillelike variety show featuring Kermit the Frog and his many friends, was introduced in 1976 and ran until 1981, ultimately reaching more than 100 countries.
        ''When people say about the Muppets, 'It's a gentle soul with a naughty sense of humor,' Jerry was just as responsible for that as my dad,''' said Brian Henson, Jim Henson's son, who serves with his sister Lisa as chairman and chief executive of the Jim Henson Company. Jim Henson, who died in 1990, created the Muppets, coining the name to describe his combination of marionette and foam-rubber hand puppets.
        Before working on ''The Muppet Show,'' Mr. Juhl helped build the Henson legacy through work on Henson's first television show, ''Sam and Friends,'' special guest appearances on variety shows and later on ''Sesame Street'' as a puppeteer, writer and voice talent, among other jobs. As the staff grew, Mr. Juhl concentrated on writing for the company.
        Mr. Juhl won two Emmy awards for his work on ''Sesame Street.'' He also won two Writers Guild Awards as head writer of ''The Muppet Show'' and an Emmy in 1981 for the ''dance marathon'' episode featuring Carol Burnett.
        ''He's the one who knew the characters better than anyone else; he brought the heart to the characters,'' said Frank Oz, another early creative force in the Jim Henson Company, who lent his talents to Miss Piggy, among other characters.
        Mr. Juhl also wrote for and won awards for ''Fraggle Rock,'' a television show about underground puppet creatures that was conceived to emphasize world harmony.
        Jerome Ravn Juhl was born in St. Paul, Minn., in 1938, and his family moved to Menlo Park, Calif., when he was 14. He received a bachelor's degree in theater arts from San Jose State University in 1961 and worked on children's shows for local television stations while in college. He met Mr. Oz when they were teenagers. They later met Henson at a puppeteer gathering in California.
        Mr. Juhl had mostly retired from writing in the last few years but taught at local colleges and spoke at puppeteer conventions.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Juhl is survived by a brother, Phil, of Waverly, Iowa.
      