
        Stefan Presser, a lawyer who for 21 years was legal director of the Pennsylvania chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, died Oct. 7 at a cancer center in Philadelphia. He was 52.
        The cause was complications from brain cancer, said his brother, Stanley.
        Mr. Presser, who lived in Philadelphia, worked for 10 years to broker a 2001 settlement that led to systemic changes in the care provided to abused and neglected children in the city.
        Marcia Robinson Lowry, executive director of Children's Rights Inc., a Manhattan-based advocacy group, who worked with Mr. Presser closely on that effort, said, ''Stefan was completely committed to his work, with every molecule of his body.''
        Last year, Mr. Presser successfully argued that a Pennsylvania law designed to block access to child pornography on the Internet also censored 1.5 million innocent Web sites. And in 2003, he forced the Transportation Security Administration to admit that it engaged in racial profiling when its agents detained a Florida physician of East Indian descent.
        Mr. Presser was born on March 30, 1953, and grew up in Brooklyn. He graduated magna cum laude from Yale in 1976 and received a law degree in 1979 from New York University. He was a professor at the James E. Beasley School of Law at Temple University and the founding co-director of its Public Interest Scholars Program.
        He began his work for the civil liberties union as an intern and became legal director at the organization's Houston branch soon after graduation. He moved to Philadelphia in 1983 and served until May 2004, when he learned that he had cancer.
        He is survived by his wife, Sandra Sherman; their children, David, Natania and Rachel Sherman-Presser; and his brother.
        Correction:  October 11, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Stefan Presser, a former legal director of the Pennsylvania chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, misstated his date of birth. It was April 30, 1953, not March 30.
      