
        Donald R.F. Harleman, a civil engineer who pioneered the study of the flow of contaminants through bodies of water and advised agencies that cleaned up Boston Harbor, Chesapeake Bay and bodies of water in several developing countries, died on Sept. 28 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Harleman, a veteran faculty member at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was regarded as a leader in fluid mechanics, and since 1995 he had been an adviser to an Italian agency, the New Venice Consortium, that is planning strategies to protect Venice from flooding.
        He developed a particular expertise in how pollutants introduced into rivers, lakes, bays and other bodies of water spread, and he was a strenuous advocate of improving water quality in the developing world through efficient and inexpensive methods.
        In addition to his work in Boston and on Chesapeake Bay, he consulted regularly on projects to decontaminate water sources in Brazil, India, China and Mexico, among other countries. Much of his work and research focused on methods of removing waste that flowed into the water sources serving mega-cities throughout the developing world.
        ''He was very much an environmentalist and believed that everyone should have access to clean water,'' said Rafael L. Bras, a colleague at the M.I.T. department of civil and environmental engineering. ''He worked very hard to come up with appropriate technologies that would be easier to implement and maintain in the developing world.''
        Dr. Harleman was born in Palmerton, Pa., and grew up there. He received his bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and pursued his graduate education at M.I.T., receiving his doctorate in 1950. The same year, he married the former Martha Havens. In recent years, they divided their time between homes in Lexington, Mass., and on Nantucket.
        Although Dr. Harleman officially retired 14 years ago, he remained active at the university and continued to work on international projects. In 2000, friends and colleagues helped raise about $2 million to endow a professorship in the name of Dr. Harleman and his wife.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Harleman is survived by a son, Robert, of Wilton, Conn.; two daughters, Kathleen T. Harleman of Champaign, Ill., and Anne Harleman Krieger of New Canaan, Conn.; and six grandchildren.
      