
        Edward Bennett Marks, whose career was spent aiding refugees as an executive of American and international agencies, both official and volunteer, died Monday at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 92 and formerly lived in Manhattan; Leesburg, Va.; and Cambridge, Mass.
        His death was announced by his stepdaughter Vivian Barad of San Francisco.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Marks was a 1932 Dartmouth graduate and received a master's degree in sociology at Columbia in 1938 while editing the magazine of the Welfare Council of New York City. That year he became director for social and cultural adjustment of the National Refugee Service in New York, aiding those fleeing Nazism in Europe.
        During the war, he was a program officer for the War Relocation Authority, which cared for Japanese-Americans forced from their homes on the West Coast. He joined the International Refugee Organization in Geneva in 1947 and two years later was sent to Athens as mission chief, aiding displaced people from Eastern Europe there.
        He remained in Greece working for a successor body, the International Organization for Migration, and opened its New York office in 1953 to care for European refugees arriving in the United Sates under the Refugee Relief Act. He went to Yugoslavia in 1957 to help resettle Hungarians after their unsuccessful rebellion against Soviet rule.
        From 1958 to 1962, he was executive director of a new coordinating body, the United States Committee for Refugees. After joining the Agency for International Development in 1962, he was stationed in Saigon and then Lagos, Nigeria, during the Biafra civil war. His last A.I.D. position was as liaison to American and international volunteer relief agencies.
        He was a primary organizer of the 1979 United Nations International Year of the Child, led by the United Nations Children's Fund. His final official position was that of interim president of the United States Committee for Unicef in 1985.
        Two of his books are in print: ''For a Better World: Posters from the United Nations'' (2003) and his memoir, ''Still Counting: Achievements and Follies of a Nonagenarian,'' published this year.
        Besides his stepdaughter Ms. Barad, Mr. Marks is survived by his wife of 18 years, Vera Barad; a daughter, Katharine Marks of Santa Fe, N.M.; another stepdaughter, Amelia B. Humphries of St. Helena, Calif.; a stepson, Michael Barad, also of San Francisco; and eight grandsons. His first wife, Margaret Laurens Marks, died in 1980.
      