
        Alvin M. Josephy Jr., a popular historian of the American West whose books chronicled the struggles of American Indians from the frontier era to the present day, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90.
        Mr. Josephy's daughter Diane Josephy Peavey confirmed the death.
        A former editor in chief of American Heritage Publishing, Mr. Josephy (pronounced jo-SEFF-ee) wrote or edited more than a dozen books about the American Indian experience. He wrote ''The Patriot Chiefs'' (Viking, 1961); ''The Nez Perce Indians and the Opening of the Northwest'' (Yale University, 1965); and ''Now That the Buffalo's Gone'' (Knopf, 1982), among other titles.
        He was the editor, most notably, of the historical anthology ''Red Power'' (American Heritage, 1971), one of the first accounts of the contemporary campaign for Indian rights. In 1999, the University of Nebraska Press released the book in a new edition, edited by Mr. Josephy, Joane Nagel and Troy Johnson.
        Alvin M. Josephy Jr. was born on May 18, 1915, in Woodmere, N.Y., and raised in New York City. His family were prominent members of East Coast literary society -- his mother was a sister of the publisher Alfred A. Knopf -- but growing up, Alvin Jr. dreamed of the West.
        Forced by the Depression to leave Harvard after two years, Mr. Josephy found work as a screenwriter in Hollywood before returning to New York, where he became a reporter for The Herald Tribune. During World War II, he was a combat correspondent with the Marines in the Pacific and was awarded a Bronze Star.
        After the war, Mr. Josephy returned to screenwriting. (His credits include ''The Captive City,'' a 1952 film starring John Forsythe as an investigative journalist based on Mr. Josephy.) In 1951, he became an associate editor of Time magazine, and in 1960 joined American Heritage, retiring in 1979.
        Mr. Josephy's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Elizabeth Peet, whom he married in 1948, died last year. Besides his daughter Diane, of Carey, Idaho, he is survived by two other daughters, Allison Wolowitz of Old Greenwich, Conn., and Katherine, of Enterprise, Ore.; a son, Alvin M. III, of Olympia, Wash.; a brother, Warren, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        The founding chairman of the board of the National Museum of the American Indian, Mr. Josephy was also the author of ''The Civil War in the American West'' (Knopf, 1991); ''The Long and the Short and the Tall'' (Knopf, 1946), an account of his wartime experience; and ''A Walk Toward Oregon'' (Knopf, 2000), a memoir.
        His latest book, ''Lewis and Clark Through Indian Eyes,'' an anthology he edited, is scheduled to be published by Knopf next year.
      