
        Edmund N. Bacon, a leading postwar urban planner who remade much of Philadelphia, died on Friday at his home there. He was 95.
        His death was confirmed by his daughter Elinor Bacon.
        As the executive director of the Philadelphia City Planning Commission from 1949 to 1970, Mr. Bacon had an impact on his native city that some have compared to that of Robert Moses during his long reign in New York.
        He also signified a bygone era when urban planners were considered celebrities, like Mr. Bacon's youngest son, Kevin, the actor. In 1964 Mr. Bacon was featured on the cover of Time magazine for an issue commemorating urban renewal in America. In 1965 Life magazine devoted a cover story to his work. His 1967 book, ''Design of Cities,'' is still considered a seminal text on contemporary urban planning.
        His mark on Philadelphia was perhaps most evident in the planning of Penn Center, a huge development of Philadelphia's downtown core in the 1950's and 60's. The center, comprising offices and hotels, was the largest such project the city had seen since the 1920's.
        In replacing the so-called Chinese Wall, a network of elevated railroad tracks that divided the city, Mr. Bacon would eventually establish a stronger east-west spine. He added buildings to the area around 30th Street Station at the western edge of Center City. Mr. Bacon's design concepts also led to the development of Market East, Penn's Landing, Society Hill, Independence Mall and the Far Northeast. ''It mixed the bulldoze-and-rebuild philosophy of urban renewal with the tentative beginnings of the historic preservation movement,'' Paul Goldberger wrote in The New York Times in 1988.
        The planner's work was not always seen as a success by critics. In 1998 Herbert Muschamp wrote in The New York Times that Penn Center was ''reviled as a prime example of disastrous modern city planning: lamentable in the spare geometry of its buildings, its disregard for the vitality of the traditional street.''
        Personally, Mr. Bacon was known for being prickly, as anyone could see in the 2003 documentary ''My Architect,'' about the legendary architect Louis Kahn. In the film, made by Mr. Kahn's son Nathaniel, Mr. Bacon vigorously -- indeed, irritably -- defends his decision to reject Kahn's urban plan for Philadelphia.
        He closely guarded the city's structural heritage; for example, he favored maintaining a ceiling on Philadelphia building heights, honoring the tradition that no building should stand taller than 491 feet, the height of the statue of William Penn atop City Hall. ''Once it's smashed, it's gone,'' Mr. Bacon said in 1984.
        And in opposing the skyscraper One Liberty Place, Mr. Bacon refused to attend the tower's 1986 groundbreaking and stopped speaking to his friend Willard G. Rouse III, who built it. ''I think it's very, very destructive that he and he alone has chosen to destroy a historical tradition that set a very fine and disciplined form for the city,'' Mr. Bacon said at the time.
        At the same time, he clashed with preservationists because he demolished so much of the city to build anew.
        Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Bacon earned a bachelor of architecture degree from Cornell University in 1932, then studied at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., with the Finnish architect and planner Eliel Saarinen. He worked as an architect in China and Philadelphia before becoming a city planner in Flint, Mich.
        From Flint, Mr. Bacon went on to serve as the director of the Philadelphia Housing Association, where he was a designer of the 1947 Better Philadelphia Exhibition, a show of models and plans. He was also an early member of the City Policy Committee, which was instrumental in Philadelphia's political reform movement.
        After retiring from the City Planning Commission in 1970, Mr. Bacon served as vice president for Mondev International Ltd., a private planning firm. He also produced ''Understanding Cities,'' a series of films on city planning.
        Mr. Bacon was an adjunct professor at the University of Pennsylvania and taught at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His awards and honors include the American Institute of Planners Distinguished Service Award and the Philadelphia Award.
        In addition to Elinor, of Washington, and Kevin, of New York, Mr. Bacon is survived by four other children: Karin and Michael, of New York; Hilda, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; and Kira, of Vashon, Wash. He is also survived by six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Bacon continued to assert his ideas for Philadelphia until his death, proposing improvements to Independence Mall, Penn's Landing and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway in the 1990's. In 2002 he protested the ban on skateboarding in the city's LOVE Park, at the eastern end of the parkway, by illegally skateboarding through the park.
      