
        Arthur W. Wang, co-founder of the intrepid publishing house of Hill & Wang, which took a chance on the early work of Elie Wiesel and Roland Barthes and was known for its Dramabooks series and books on American history, died on Friday in Wellesley, Mass. He was 87.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, Mr. Wang's wife, Mary-Ellen, said.
        In 1959 Mr. Wang bought Mr. Wiesel's Holocaust memoir, ''Night,'' which had been turned down by more than a dozen publishers. ''At the time, people didn't want to hear about that period,'' Mr. Wiesel said yesterday in an interview from Jerusalem. ''They said, 'Why should people read such morbid stuff?''' At first sales were slow, but it went on to sell millions of copies.
        Hill & Wang was founded in 1956 by Mr. Wang, then editor of the A.A. Wyn publishing company, and Lawrence Hill, its sales manager. They bought backlist books from Wyn and started Dramabooks, with Eric Bentley as adviser, publishing plays in trade paperback, then a new format. The company prospered, and the series included Jean Cocteau, Arthur Kopit and Lanford Wilson.
        Early on, Mr. Hill and Mr. Wang decided to concentrate on African-American books, by Langston Hughes and on anthologies of short stories and poetry. They sold well.
        The poet and translator Richard Howard championed the French theorist Roland Barthes, then relatively unknown, and the company published him. It also published American historians like Stanley Kutler and William Cronon.
        In 1971 Mr. Wang and Mr. Hill sold Hill & Wang to Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Mr. Hill died in 1988. Mr. Wang remained active in the company until 1998.
        Mr. Wang was born in Port Chester, N.Y., and graduated from Bowdoin College. He studied history at Columbia University but did not get an advanced degree.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary-Ellen Mackay; his son, Michael Anthony; and two granddaughters.
        At history conventions, Mr. Wang sat at the Hill & Wang booth, chatting. Eric Foner, a history professor at Columbia, who advised him on his American history line, said yesterday, ''I always felt he loved to publish these books just to give him an excuse to talk about history.''
      