
        Edward R. Telling, who as chairman and chief executive of Sears, Roebuck & Company engineered its expansion into financial services in the 1980's, died Wednesday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, said Ernie Arms, a retired Sears spokesman who made the announcement on behalf of the Telling family.
        As the head of Sears from 1978 until his retirement in 1985, Mr. Telling turned a department store and mail-order chain known for selling garage-door openers and cardigan sweaters into a one-stop financial services destination, where customers could buy stock, obtain a mortgage and purchase a home.
        In one 40-day span in 1981, Mr. Teller announced that Sears would start a money market fund and purchase both the Coldwell Banker real estate firm and the Dean Witter Reynolds brokerage house. Soon after, Sears created the Discover Card.
        Mr. Telling based his strategy on the assumption that the middle-income shoppers at Sears earned enough to afford professional financial services. By 1981, a company survey found that 70 percent of all United States households with incomes above $36,000 held a Sears card.
        Edward Riggs Telling was born in Danville, Ill., and graduated from Illinois Wesleyan University. After serving as a Navy pilot during World War II, he began working as a trainee at the Sears store in his hometown.
        Mr. Telling became manager of the Danville store and moved swiftly into the Sears corporate ranks. He oversaw stores in the Midwest and the New York area before moving on to headquarters.
        By 1978, when Mr. Telling took over the company, earnings were in decline and a new kind of competitor, discount chains, had just appeared. Worried about the slow growth, Mr. Telling sought a new direction for the company, settling on financial services.
        But Mr. Telling's strategy could not change the reality that American consumers, tempted by the fashions at specialty clothing chains and the prices at discounters, were abandoning department stores. By the early 1990's, Sears had fallen from its perch as the nation's largest retailer, trailing behind Kmart and Wal-Mart.
        Saying it needed to focus on its retail business, Sears dismantled Mr. Telling's sprawling financial services business, spinning off Dean Witter Reynolds and Coldwell Banker.
        He is survived by his wife, Lynn Boyle Telling; his children, Pamela Grimes, Kathryn Bentley, Nancy O'Shaughnessy and Thomas Cole Telling; two stepchildren, Keith Patrick and Kimberly Ann; 14 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. His first wife, Nancy Hawkins, and a son, Edward R. Telling III, died before him.
        Although Mr. Telling's salary and benefits made him a rich man, he still bought his clothes at Sears, and frequently flung open his suit jackets to reveal the label. There was, however, one product he purchased at a competitor's store: shoes. Mr. Telling wore a 13A, a size too rare to keep in stock.
      