
        Robert H. Johnston, an archaeologist who helped develop a way to read ancient texts blackened or faded by time, including the Dead Sea Scrolls, died last Wednesday at his home in Brighton, N.Y. He was 77.
        He spent more than a month in the hospital recently after several minor falls followed by infections and minor strokes, said his wife, Louise, but she could not point to a single cause of death.
        Mr. Johnston, who for two decades was a professor and administrator at the Rochester Institute of Technology, worked in digital imaging to tease out ancient text, often minute fragments of individual characters, that had not been seen for as long as 2,000 years. This involved manipulating technology first used for medical diagnosis and enhancing pictures taken from military satellites.
        Along with the Dead Sea Scrolls, texts from the time of Christ, Mr. Johnston decoded parts of a 10th-century parchment copy of a famous treatise by the Greek mathematician Archimedes that had been used as the fabric for a 13th-century prayer book, among other projects.
        Mr. Johnston's team included Roger L. Easton, another Rochester Institute of Technology professor; scientists at the Xerox Corporation and the Eastman Kodak Company; and institute graduate students.
        Their process involves using a digital camera that is sensitive to light ranging far beyond that visible to the naked eye. Researchers photograph materials in several different wavelengths until they find ones that offer the most detail.
        Ink may reflect light at one point in the spectrum while the blackened background reflects light with a wavelength only a millionth of a meter different. A computer, analyzing the differences, can identify the hidden characters.
        Mr. Johnston's team often extracted only tiny but critical bits. Examining a red-ink scroll of the Old Testament book of Samuel yielded only one previously unknown character. The team found only 18 new characters in their examination of color photographs of the Temple Scroll, which at 28 feet is the longest of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
        Some goatskin scrolls had disintegrated into 100,000 fragments, some as small as a baby's fingernail. Sometimes all that could be seen was a dark-red scrap of material. But once it was digitalized and the background lightened, ''the characters just pop out,'' Dr. Johnson said in 1993 in an interview with The Globe and Mail, the Toronto newspaper.
        In an interview with The Rochester Democrat and Chronicle in 2000, Mr. Johnston said: ''We don't read documents. Our expertise is bringing out the text. It's better if you don't read Greek. If you did, you'd start looking for things. It ought to be this or that. What we find is there.''
        Robert Harold Johnston was born on July 1, 1928, in Reading, Pa., where he grew up with Louise Greenwood, who would become his wife of 57 years. He is also survived by his daughters Vickie Roberts, of Ontario, N.Y., and Tara DuMont, of Penfield, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        He served in the Marine Corps during World War II, and then studied art at what was then Kutztown State Teacher's College in Pennsylvania. He earned a master's degree in art from Columbia University. He taught at Lock Haven University and simultaneously studied for a doctorate in archaeology at Penn State University, which he earned in 1970.
        His first area of study was local Indians in Pennsylvania, and some of his earliest foreign archaeological expeditions were to Turkey and Afghanistan. He ultimately made more than 50 foreign expeditions.
        Mr. Johnston started at the Rochester institute as dean of the College of Fine and Applied Arts, a position he held for nearly 20 years. He later was director of the institute's Chester Carlson Center for Imaging Science. He found time to earn a black belt in judo, play the banjo and ride a motorcycle.
        Imaging technology similar to what Mr. Johnston's team developed is now carried into the field in the form of digital cameras and laptop computers. Earlier this year, officials at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center said they had pushed the examination of the Archimedes document further yet by developing an X-ray no thicker than a human hair to scan it.
      