
        Ephraim Kishon, a Holocaust survivor who became one of Israel's best-known humorists with his satirical books and movies popular here and in Europe, died at his home in Switzerland on Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, his family said. He was 80.
        Prime Minister Ariel Sharon spoke of Mr. Kishon on Sunday at the opening of his cabinet meeting, calling him ''one of the cultural giants of our generation.''
        Mr. Kishon was born in Hungary and survived a Nazi concentration camp during World War II before immigrating to Israel in 1949 while in his mid-20's.
        ''They made a mistake; they left one satirist alive,'' he later wrote.
        He swiftly emerged as one of Israel's best-known writers, producing newspaper essays, plays and novels. He established a theater company and also wrote and directed films, some of them considered classics in Israel.
        His best-known film was ''Sallah Shabati,'' the tale of a poor Jewish immigrant from North Africa battling prejudice and bureaucracy as he tried to assimilate into the young country dominated by Jews of European descent. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award in 1965.
        Another popular film written and directed by Mr. Kishon, ''Ha-Shoter Azulai,'' released in the United States as ''The Policeman,'' about a frustrated policeman on the verge of retirement, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1972.
        Mr. Kishon wrote dozens of books that were translated into more than 30 languages, and his popularity in Europe was particularly strong in Germany.
        Among his other works are ''Look Back, Mrs. Lot!'' and ''So Sorry We Won!'' which was published in 1968 and examined Israel's existence in a hostile Middle East.
        He was often asked why he thought he was so well received in Germany.
        ''He said this is a great feeling, that the children of my hangmen are my admirers,'' Mr. Kishon's son Rafi told Israel's army radio.
        In his remarks on Sunday, Mr. Sharon noted that Mr. Kishon ''felt rejected by the Israeli cultural establishment.''
        ''But his monumental cultural works remain with us and with future generations,'' Mr. Sharon said.
        Not feeling fully accepted in Israel, Mr. Kishon eventually moved to Switzerland, where he lived for many years, though he continued to spend a good deal of time in Israel.
        He received the Israel Prize, the country's most prestigious honor, in 2002 for lifetime achievement. The judges described him as ''a light rescued from the fire of the Holocaust, who scaled the heights of satire in the world.''
        Mr. Kishon was born in Budapest on Aug. 23, 1924, and various biographies say his given name was Ferenc Kishont or Ferenc Hoffmann. He changed his name after arriving in Israel.
        His body was being flown from Switzerland to Israel for burial in Tel Aviv. He is survived by Lisa, his third wife, and three grown children.
      