
        Rong Yiren, a wealthy entrepreneur and former vice president of China who in the 1970's was asked by Deng Xiaoping to help initiate some of the nation's earliest economic reforms, died Wednesday in Beijing. He was 89.
        His death was reported by the New China News Agency.
        Mr. Rong was a close friend and adviser to Deng and other Communist Party leaders, including Zhao Ziyang. In 1979, at the party's behest, he founded one of the nation's biggest state-owned conglomerates, the China International Trust & Investment Corporation, which is based in Beijing.
        He went on to become one of the country's wealthiest individuals. He was frequently referred to as the ''Red capitalist'' because of his decision to remain in China after the revolution in 1949 and because of his role as a favored and politically connected businessman here in the late 1970's and early 1980's, when China was just beginning to open its doors to the West and capitalism.
        In many ways, Mr. Rong's career paralleled the nation's ills and fortunes during much of the last century.
        Born into one of China's wealthiest families, Mr. Rong survived the rise of the Communist Party and the dissolution of his family's empire after 1949, only to be beaten and humiliated and then allowed to re-emerge, in the late 1970's, as one of the Communist Party's favored entrepreneurs.
        Free to experiment with capitalism, Mr. Rong frequently traveled abroad and made huge investments in overseas companies. But he was also one of the first people to lure foreign investors back to China during the late 1970's and early 1980's.
        In 1989, he briefly supported the democracy movement before the government crackdown at Tiananmen Square. His friend Mr. Zhao was removed from office by the top leadership for opposing the crackdown.
        Yet later, Mr. Rong served as vice president under Jiang Zemin, from 1993 to 1998, although that position was considered largely ceremonial.
        He was, of course, much more of a businessman. He liked to call himself an entrepreneur rather than a capitalist. In 1999, Forbes magazine reported that he was the richest man in China, valuing his net worth at $1 billion.
        Today, there are entrepreneurs much richer. His son, Rong Zhijian -- or Larry Yung -- is one of them. He controls Citic Pacific, the Hong Kong-listed subsidiary of the company his father founded.
        Rong Yiren was born in 1916, in the eastern city of Wuxi, in Jiangsu Province, one of seven sons of one of China's richest families. His father and uncle were wealthy industrialists who in the early 20th century controlled an empire that included textile mills, printing presses and cotton yarn factories.
        Even outside of China, his father and his uncle, who were based in Shanghai, were known as the Cotton Yarn Tycoon and the Flour King.
        After graduating with a British education from the elite St. John's University in Shanghai, Rong Yiren took over part of the family business in the 1940's and operated several cotton yarn mills.
        But in 1949, after the Communists took power, many entrepreneurs -- including much of Mr. Rong's family -- fled to Taiwan, Hong Kong or the United States. Mr. Rong stayed on in China hoping to help rebuild the nation.
        For a time, he was allowed to control many of his family's companies. In the 1950's, when private companies were nationalized, Mr. Rong handed over large stakes in some of his family's holdings to the government. He also took up the post of vice mayor of Shanghai.
        But during the Cultural Revolution, between 1966 and 1976, his family companies were fully confiscated and he fell out of favor, partly because his family's wealthy bourgeois background. He was beaten, denounced and made to work menial jobs.
        But after Deng came to power after Mao's death in 1976, Mr. Rong was rehabilitated. Many of the family's confiscated property and holdings, including a mansion, were later returned. Mr. Rong was asked to help develop industry and establish corporations that could serve as a window as China opened up to the outside world.
        On Oct. 4, 1979, Mr. Rong set up Citic, a state-owned company to experiment with capitalism and foreign investment and trade. He was told by Deng to ''be boldly creative.''
        Citic was given great leeway to operate in an entrepreneurial manner. Mr. Rong became a savvy deal maker. Within a decade, the company grew into a global conglomerate with diverse holdings, from airlines, banks and property to aluminum smelting factories and timber operations.
        In the 1980's and 1990's, Mr. Rong, who is survived by five children, emerged as perhaps modern China's first billionaire. He favored tailored suits and Cadillacs and for a time lived in a huge mansion here in Shanghai.
      