
        Michael Gill, a British television producer and director best known in this country for innovative ''authored documentary'' series like ''Civilisation'' (1969), featuring Lord Kenneth Clark, and ''America'' (1972), with Alistair Cooke, died on Oct. 20 at a London hospital. A London resident, he was 81.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Murray Grigor, a friend and associate.
        Mr. Gill's work was especially well known in Britain, and his name appeared in the credits of more than 150 films for the cinema and television. Among his professional honors were four Emmy and three Peabody Awards.
        He and the filmmakers Adrian Malone and Peter Montagnon came to devise the genre of authored documentaries, in which they presented distinguished hosts to a new generation of viewers ready to follow their explorations of history and the arts.
        With Mr. Montagnon, Mr. Gill directed and produced ''Civilisation,'' a highly successful series consisting of three months' worth of weekly broadcasts that was shown on public television and in museums all over the world. Narrated by Lord Clark, the eminent British art historian, it originated with the British Broadcasting Corporation for the express purpose of bringing the riches and wonders of his métier to a wider audience in a comprehensive tableau.
        He built on that success as the producer and a director of ''America,'' a 13-hour special shepherded by Cooke, the erudite veteran BBC correspondent more familiar here as the debonair host of ''Masterpiece Theater.'' The series, seen on NBC, illustrated the country's history from its birth and let Cooke interpret America not just to the rest of the world, but to Americans as well.
        Some of Mr. Gill's subsequent work was done in the United States, including the film ''Paul Gauguin: The Savage Dream'' (1988). His most recent works as director, producer or both, for television, were the miniseries ''Vintage: A History of Wine'' (1991), ''Nature Perfected: The Story of the Garden'' (1995) and ''The Face of Russia'' (1999), produced by him and directed by Mr. Grigor.
        Mr. Gill's survivors include his wife, Georgina Denison; a son, A. A. Gill, and a daughter, Chloe Gill, both of London. His first marriage to Yvonne Gilan, an actress, ended in divorce.
        Michael Gill was born on Dec. 10, 1923, in Winchester, Hampshire, the son of a bank manager who encouraged his interest in the antique treasures of the British Museum. He served in military intelligence in World War II, after which he studied philosophy and psychology at Edinburgh University, graduating in 1951.
        After a stint as an art critic for The Scotsman, he joined the BBC in 1954 and produced radio and, later, television school programs until he came to direct art films in a series called ''Monitor.''
      