
        David Nillo, a founding member of American Ballet Theater and a dancer in many musical theater productions, died Sept. 28 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in Hollywood.
        His death was announced by Jim Baughman, a friend.
        Mr. Nillo, who was born in Goldsboro, N.C., was a versatile man of the theater, at home in ballet and modern dance, and in Broadway and film musicals. He studied in Chicago with Bentley Stone, a ballet teacher and choreographer who incorporated elements of Americana into his productions, and Kurt Graff, a German modern dancer who borrowed elements of ballet technique.
        Mr. Nillo danced in Chicago in 1939 with the Page-Stone Ballet (directed by Ruth Page and Stone), the Graff Ballet and the Federal Theater Dance Project. Moving to New York later in 1939, he studied ballet with Anton Dolin, Antony Tudor and Edward Caton and modern dance with Hanya Holm.
        He joined Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was originally known, for its first season in 1940. Although never a principal dancer with the troupe, his adaptability led him to be cast in ballets as varied as the classic ''Giselle'' and Eugene Loring's ''Billy the Kid.''
        He was a radio operator for the United States Maritime Service, from 1943 to 1945. After leaving the service, he appeared on Broadway in ''Call Me Mister'' in 1946. And though he briefly returned to Ballet Theater for its 15th anniversary engagement at the Metropolitan Opera House in the spring of 1955, Mr. Nillo devoted most of the rest of his career to musical theater, dancing on Broadway in shows like ''Great to Be Alive'' and ''Out of This World'' (both 1950), ''Maggie'' (1953) and ''Goldlilocks'' (1958) and in the 1956 movie version of ''The Vagabond King.''
        That year, he also served as an assistant to Holm when she choreographed the original production of ''My Fair Lady.'' In 1976, he choreographed a touring revival of that show and moved to Hollywood, where he taught dance and fitness.
        Mr. Nillo is survived by a longtime friend, Christina Babst.
      