
        Chester L. Cooper, a retired United States diplomat who in the 1950's and 60's was a backstage player in many of the most critical negotiations of the cold war, died on Oct. 30 in Washington. He was 88.
        During his years in public service, Mr. Cooper often worked, as he later wrote, ''as deputy or special assistant to, of or for somebody or something.'' He held senior positions with the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council, the State Department and other agencies.
        This year, he published a memoir, ''In the Shadows of History: 50 Years Behind the Scenes of Cold War Diplomacy'' (Prometheus Books), in which he recounted his association with a constellation of historic figures that included John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Nikita S. Khrushchev and Ho Chi Minh.
        An authority on Asia, Mr. Cooper was involved with United States policy on Vietnam, starting with his participation in the Geneva Conference on Indochina in 1954. In the late 1960's, as a deputy to W. Averell Harriman, who was first an ambassador at large and later the chief American negotiator at the Paris peace talks, Mr. Cooper undertook a series of missions in pursuit of a negotiated settlement of the Vietnam War.
        Mr. Cooper was also closely involved in the Suez crisis of 1956, in which Israel, Britain and France fought a brief war with Egypt over the waterway, becoming the American emissary in the delicate talks with Britain. In 1962, at the time of the Cuban missile crisis, he was President Kennedy's envoy to London to brief Prime Minister Harold Macmillan.
        Mr. Cooper's other books include ''The Lion's Last Roar: Suez, 1956'' (Harper & Row, 1978) and ''The Lost Crusade: America in Vietnam'' (Dodd, Mead, 1970).
        Reviewing ''The Lost Crusade'' in The New York Times Book Review, Ronald Steel wrote, ''Chester Cooper was there when most of it happened, and even though he pulls a few punches, he has given us the most revealing and the most important inside story of the war that we have yet had, or are likely to get for a long time.''
        Chester Lawrence Cooper was born in Boston on Jan. 13, 1917. He earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1939, a master's degree from N.Y.U. in 1941 and, in 1960, a Ph.D. in economics from American University. In World War II, he served in China with the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor of the C.I.A.
        After leaving the federal government in the late 1960's, Mr. Cooper was a director of the Institute for Defense Analysis and later a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. More recently, he directed the Washington office of the Institute for Energy Analysis, a policy group. In 2001, Mr. Cooper retired as director of international programs at the Battelle Memorial Institute at the University of Maryland, where he worked on environmental policy issues.
        Mr. Cooper's wife of 61 years, the former Orah Pomerance, an economist with the C.I.A., died in 2002. He is survived by their two daughters, Susan Cooper of Washington and Joan Gould of London; a brother, Mitchell, of Chevy Chase, Md.; and three grandchildren.
      