
        Tony Jackson, a brilliant jump shooter and a two-time all-American who led St. John's University to the championships of the National Invitation Tournament and the Holiday Festival in an era when those tournaments showcased college basketball's finest talent, died Friday in Brooklyn. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, a spokesman for St. John's said.
        Playing for St. John's from 1958 to 1961, when the college game was recovering from point-shaving scandals of the early 1950's, Jackson, a 6-foot-4 forward, became one of the leading players in St. John's history. But he never played in the National Basketball Association, having evidently been barred for failing to report a bribe offer he refused when the college game was jarred by a second scandal. He played instead for the forerunners of the Nets in the American Basketball Association.
        Jackson was one of New York City's greatest high school basketball players, setting a Public Schools Athletic League record at the time with a career total of 1,433 points at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. He played alongside center Leroy Ellis, who became his teammate at St. John's and later played in the N.B.A.
        Playing at St. John's for Joe Lapchick, a former Knicks coach, Jackson was the most valuable player of the 1958 Holiday Festival and the 1959 N.I.T., both played at Madison Square Garden. Jackson scored 1,603 points in his three seasons at St. John's for an average of 21.1 points a game.
        He was selected by the Knicks in the March 1961 N.B.A. draft. But an indictment obtained by the Manhattan district attorney, Frank Hogan, in May 1961 in a scandal involving basketball players from many colleges listed Jackson among those who rejected bribes but failed to report that they were approached.
        ''I got a call during the summer from a guy who said he wanted to meet with me,'' Jackson told Newsday in 2002, recalling a bribe offer in 1960. ''It was no one I knew but somebody I had met at the park. I said no and I never heard from him again.''
        Jackson said that he later agreed to a contract with the Knicks but that Maurice Podoloff, the N.B.A. commissioner at the time, barred him along with others named in the scandal, even though he was never accused of a crime.
        Jackson played in the early 1960's in the short-lived American Basketball League. When the A.B.A. was created in 1967, Jackson joined the New Jersey Americans, the franchise that eventually became the N.B.A.'s Nets. Jackson made the A.B.A. All-Star team that season. He played briefly with the franchise the next season, when it became the New York Nets, but spent most of the second A.B.A. season with the Houston club, then retired from pro basketball.
        He later worked in recreational programs in Brooklyn.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia; a son, Tony Jr.; his daughters, Donna Howson and Lorraine Jackson; his brothers Charles, Shelly and Harvey; and four grandchildren.
        ''I have this belief,'' Jackson told Newsday in reflecting on his lost opportunity to become an N.B.A. star. ''When you're created and brought to this earth, there's a plan for you. This was the plan for me. You're bitter for a while but, hey, there's life afterward. I didn't want to become a bitter person.''
      