
        Dutch Hiller, one of the three surviving players from the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup hockey champions, died Saturday at a hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Montrose, Calif.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Patricia Ornelas said.
        Hiller's death leaves only Clint Smith, 91, and Alf Pike, 88, as the surviving members of the 1940 championship team. The Rangers did not win the Stanley Cup again for 54 years.
        At 5-foot-8 and 170 pounds, Hiller was a left wing who sometimes played wearing glasses. John Halligan, the National Hockey League's historian, said Hiller was considered the fastest skater of his era. Smith, Hiller's teammate, once said ''Nobody, not in the entire league, could keep up with Dutch. When he got the puck alone, you just didn't get it back.''
        Hiller played nine seasons in the N.H.L. (1937-38 to 1945-46) with the Rangers, the Detroit Red Wings, the Boston Bruins and the Montreal Canadiens. (He won another Stanley Cup with the Canadiens in 1946.) He had 91 goals and 113 assists in 383 regular-season games and 9 goals and 8 assists in 48 playoff games.
        The first line on the Rangers' Stanley Cup champions consisted of Alex Shibicky and the brothers Neil and Mac Colville. The second line had Bryan Hextall, Phil Watson and Lynn Patrick or Hiller.
        In the best-of-seven Cup finals, the Rangers led the Toronto Maple Leafs, 3-2. Game 6 went into overtime, and when Hiller passed the puck to Watson, Watson passed to Hextall and Hextall fired in a 15-foot backhand shot. The Rangers were the champions of professional hockey.
        Wilbert Carl Hiller was born May 11, 1915, in Berlin (now Kitchener), Ontario. He started playing amateur hockey in 1933 and made his N.H.L. debut in February 1938 when the Rangers called him up from the Rovers, their amateur affiliate in Madison Square Garden.
        After he retired as a player, he coached the Los Angeles Monarchs of the Pacific Coast Hockey League for two seasons and then became a goal judge for the N.H.L.'s Los Angeles Kings. In addition to his daughter Patricia, of Montrose, he is survived by another daughter, Rosemarie Anderson of St. George, Utah, two granddaughters and nine great-grandchildren. His first wife, the former Marie Bruder, died in 1967, and his second wife, the former Eileen Adams, died in 1997.
      