
        Joseph Monserrat, a leader among Puerto Ricans in New York and the continental United States beginning in the days of their mass migration in the 1950's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Greenwich Village. He was 84 and lived in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan.
        His family said he died after a long illness.
        In more recent decades, Mr. Monserrat, a former member and president of the city's Board of Education, had been active in efforts to unite Latinos of various national origins and give them a unified voice in the political arena. His earlier high-profile public career was crippled in the 1970's when he was forced to resign from the school board amid allegations of corruption.
        Joseph Monserrat grew up in poverty. Born in Bayamón, P.R., he came to New York when he was 3 or 5 and lived in a foster home for a time. He lived with his father and stepmother in East Harlem, did well in public schools and served in the Army Air Force in World War II.
        He then attended the New School for Social Research and Columbia University, studying economics, public relations and opinion research as well as sociology. He also worked as a community organizer in settlement houses, helping new arrivals from Puerto Rico. As a member of the city's Youth Board, he started working with street gangs.
        From 1951 to 1969 he directed the New York office of the newly formed Migration Division of the Department of Labor of Puerto Rico, also serving as deputy director of the national office. In that capacity he helped Puerto Ricans look for work on the potato farms of Long Island, in city factories and even in rural Ohio. As farm work dwindled, he helped people find new sources of income and homes in the suburbs. He became a liaison between the newcomers and the political representatives of the established communities.
        The migration division also ran programs in education, social services, cultural affairs and research. He became its national director in 1960, overseeing 13 offices around the country with a staff of more than 200.
        He branched out to deal with related Hispanic concerns involving Latinos of all origins, through social and religious groups around the country.
        He also pressed the cause of education for people with inadequate English skills. He served on the New York Moreland Commission on Welfare, the state advisory committee to the Unites States Civil Rights Commission, various commissions on manpower and the exploitation of workers, and the Knapp Commission, which investigated police corruption.
        In 1969, Herman Badillo, burough president of the Bronx, nominated him for the Bronx seat on an interim Board of Education. The previous board was disbanded after a school-construction scandal several years earlier. He was elected board president, serving two one-year terms, but was forced to suspend himself in 1975.
        In 1977, Mr. Monserrat pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor charge in two indictments against him, admitting a conflict of interest involving an audio-visual company that did business with the city schools. He was fined $1,000, and forfeited his place on the school board.
        He established a consulting business and, over the years, regained his voice as a community leader. He worked for national Puerto Rican business and marketing groups and in the early 1980's was president of the Minority Business and Marketing Association. He was an under secretary in the Department of Puerto Rican Community Affairs in the United States in the 1990's and, most recently, served as a consultant to Hostos Community College in the Bronx.
        Mr. Monserrat is survived by his wife, Judith Reiss; a daughter from a previous marriage, Dr. Laura Monserrat of Manhattan; a sister, Olga Bello of Charleston, N. C.; and a granddaughter. His first marriage, to Josephine Monserrat, a Manhattan resident, ended in divorce.
      