
        Julius C. C. Edelstein, a primary architect of open admissions at the City University of New York in the late 1960's, died on Friday morning at New York Hospital. He was 93.
        His daughter, Suzy E. E. Edelstein, said the cause was complications of pneumonia.
        Although he never graduated from college -- he dropped out of the University of Wisconsin, where he was studying medicine, for health reasons -- he became a senior vice chancellor of the City University of New York and devoted nearly 40 years to the battle to ensure that economically and educationally disadvantaged students had access to a college education.
        At a celebration honoring him three years ago, Mr. Edelstein described how he had worked closely with CUNY's chancellor, Albert H. Bowker, to find ways to admit more minority students.
        ''Al Bowker was really the one who thought up open admissions, and I was his handyman,'' Mr. Edelstein said, adding that at the time, minority students accounted for only 1.5 percent of the enrollment at CUNY's senior colleges.
        Mr. Edelstein also worked with Shirley Chisholm, Percy Sutton, Charles B. Rangel, Basil A. Paterson, Anthony J. Travia and others to win financing and draft legislation for the SEEK program to help poorly educated low-income students enroll in CUNY's senior colleges with financial and educational support.
        Open admissions followed, paving the way for a surge in the number of white and minority students who would not otherwise have been accepted at the four-year colleges. CUNY's enrollment jumped from fewer than 100,000 students to more than 250,000. And with that growth came charges that the university had debased its standards.
        As the criticism mounted, Mr. Edelstein remained convinced that educating disadvantaged students was the appropriate role for a public urban university.
        ''For all of its shortcomings, City University is the social engine of the city,'' he said in 1998 as Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani pressed CUNY to bar students unprepared for college work. ''The attempt to convert it into Swarthmore or Harvard is ridiculous, and is not what people of New York need.''
        Mr. Edelstein was bitter when CUNY's board tightened admissions standards for its bachelor's degree programs, but later came to accept that the new policies had not brought about the ''destruction'' of the university.
        Julius Caesar Claude Edelstein was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 29, 1912. His parents were Russian immigrants, and Mr. Edelstein said he inherited his concern for the downtrodden from his father, who was the general secretary of the Social Revolutionary Party in Czarist Russia.
        Mr. Edelstein spent much of his career in politics, before moving to CUNY in 1966. After leaving Wisconsin, he worked for the United Press, and then joined Franklin D. Roosevelt's White House.
        During World War II, Mr. Edelstein served as an aide to Admiral William D. Leahy. When the war ended, he worked for the United States high commissioner in the Philippines, Paul V. McNutt, and then as an adviser to the president of the Philippines. He then worked for the secretary of state on the problem of reparations before becoming Senator Herbert H. Lehman's executive assistant and chief of legislative staff. After serving as executive vice chairman of the New York Citizens Committee for Kennedy and Johnson, he became executive assistant to Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1961, and rose to deputy mayor.
        Under Mayor Wagner, he dealt with issues like how to handle the city's water supply during drought and whether cellar apartments should be disallowed. He also served as executive secretary of the city's antipoverty board. The mayor lent Mr. Edelstein to Robert F. Kennedy when he ran for the Senate, to advise him on Jewish and Israeli issues. (Mr. Edelstein met his first wife, Rivka Ben-David, while she was assistant military attaché to the Israeli Embassy in Washington. They married in 1955. She died in 1964.)
        When Mayor Wagner decided not to run for re-election, Mr. Edelstein joined CUNY. He later said that because he suggested New York City follow Wisconsin's model in using the university ''as a sort of laboratory'' for state government, ''Chancellor Bowker said: 'O.K., I'll hire you. Now you do what you told me to do.' ''
        He retired as senior vice chancellor in 1984, but remained at CUNY, teaching, writing and continuing to lobby for the education of the disadvantaged. In the late 1990's, he helped form Friends of CUNY, a group that lobbied unsuccessfully to keep remedial classes in the senior colleges.
        Mr. Edelstein's second wife, the former Nancy Harris Palmer, whom he married in 1985, died in 1996. In addition to his daughter Suzy, he is survived by two stepdaughters, Helena P. Chapin of Rochester and Dudley Palmer of Acton, Mass.; four stepgrandchildren; and six stepgreat-grandchildren.
      