
        Red Sarachek, the Yeshiva University basketball coach for a quarter-century who was known for his innovative tactics in a program far from the sport's limelight, died Monday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 93.
        His death was announced by Yeshiva.
        Sarachek coached at a university that offered no athletic scholarships, had no home gymnasium and demanded much from its students in academic and religious pursuits. But he became a well-known figure on the New York college basketball scene alongside coaches like Red Holzman, Nat Holman, Joe Lapchick, Clair Bee, Howard Cann and Lou Carnesecca.
        Sarachek's motion offenses, trapping defenses, schemes to beat a zone defense and imaginative in-bounds plays drew much attention. ''Young coaches would come and watch his drills in practices and take notes and use the same plays for their schools,'' Jeffrey Gurock, an assistant at Yeshiva since 1979 and a professor of Jewish history there, said Tuesday in a telephone interview.
        Sarachek was 202-263 at Yeshiva, coaching from the early 1940's to the late 1960's, but the record books were only a small part of the story. His 1956-57 squad, coming off a 16-2 record the previous season, had a starting lineup of three predental students, a pre-med student and a rabbinical student. Sarachek sometimes drew up strategy while riding the subway with his players to Yeshiva's Upper Manhattan campus and said he never cut a player who was willing to devote himself to the program.
        ''The players are just unusual,'' he told The New York Times in 1956. ''They tell me they can't come to practice and I say, 'Why?' and they say, 'Gotta study,' and what can I say? Studies come first with these kids, but basketball is a challenge they meet. That they have time to play basketball is a miracle.''
        Bernard Sarachek grew up in Brooklyn and played basketball at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan and New York University. During the 1930's, he coached a team from the Workmen's Circle, a fraternal organization, whose players included Holzman, the future Knicks coach, and Norm Drucker, who became a prominent N.B.A. referee.
        In the 1940's, Sarachek was all over the basketball map, coaching semipro and settlement-house teams in addition to his duties at Yeshiva, where he was also the athletic director. He also owned a sporting-goods store in Brooklyn.
        Sarachek is survived by his sons, Jules and Michael; his daughters, Arlene Weissmann and Esther Blitner; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. His wife, Belle, died in 2003.
        The days when Yeshiva played its home games at various college and high school gyms around the city are long gone, as is the Mighty Mites nickname of the Sarachek era, replaced by the Maccabees. The basketball team has its own gym at the Max Stern Athletic Center on campus.
        Through all the tough playing conditions and the academic demands, Sarachek was something of a perfectionist. And he was hardly above shouting at his players. As he once put it in reflecting on a 14-4 season in the late 1950's, ''I screamed at the kids so much that they were so nervous they couldn't miss the basket.''
        Correction:  November 30, 2005, Wednesday  A picture caption on Nov. 19 with an obituary of Red Sarachek, the longtime Yeshiva University basketball coach, misidentified a member of the Workmen's Circle team shown with him and Red Holzman in 1941. The player at the far right was Monroe Edelstein (then known as Chili Edelstein), not Norm Drucker.
      