
        Derek Lamb, an Academy Award-winning writer, director and producer of animated films, died on Nov. 5 in Poulsbo, Wash., where he was visiting a friend. He was 69 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was cancer, said Janet Perlman, Mr. Lamb's former wife and a longtime collaborator.
        For many years associated with the National Film Board of Canada, Mr. Lamb earned an Oscar for Best Animated Short Film for ''Every Child'' (1979). The six-minute film was directed by Eugene Fedorenko and produced by Mr. Lamb, who was also a co-writer. It follows the tribulations of a baby left on a doorstep who bounces from one inhospitable household to the next.
        Mr. Lamb also produced ''Special Delivery'' (1978), an Oscar-winning animated short. A darkly funny cautionary tale, the film chronicles the series of unfortunate events that ensues after a man fails to clear his porch of snow and ice.
        With Mr. Fedorenko and Ms. Perlman, Mr. Lamb created the mordant, much-loved credit sequence for the PBS ''Mystery!'' series, featuring the art of Edward Gorey.
        Derek Reginald Steven Lamb was born on June 20, 1936, in Bromley, England, and studied graphic design in Britain. In the late 1950's, he became smitten with animation after seeing the work of the renowned Canadian animator Norman McLaren in Montreal. Mr. Lamb eventually talked his way into a job as a writer with the National Film Board of Canada.
        Among Mr. Lamb's best-known work from this period is ''I Know an Old Lady Who Swallowed a Fly'' (1964), which he directed. The film's soundtrack is sung by Burl Ives.
        After a stint producing animation for ''Sesame Street,'' Mr. Lamb returned to the National Film Board in the mid-1970's as the head of its English-language animation department. In 1983, he and Ms. Perlman formed Lamb Perlman Productions.
        Mr. Lamb taught animation at Harvard from 1965 to 1970; in later years, he returned to the university as a guest lecturer.
        Mr. Lamb's first marriage, to Avril Ellenport, ended in divorce, as did his second, to Ms. Perlman. He is survived by his third wife, Tracie Smart; two children from his first marriage, Richard, of Bennington, Vt., and Tom, of Los Angeles; and one grandchild.
        In recent years, Mr. Lamb directed several animated films for Street Kids International, a human rights organization. Aimed at audiences of street children throughout the world, they include ''Goldtooth'' (1996), about the dangers of substance abuse, and ''Karate Kids'' (1990), about AIDS.
      