
        James King, an American heldentenor whose bright, ringing voice and fluent high notes captivated critics and audiences in leading European opera houses in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla., where he had retired. He was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Indiana University, where he taught music and voice from 1984 to 2002. His death was first announced by the Vienna Staatsoper, of which he was an honorary member. It was also noted by the Deutsche Oper in Berlin, where he had his first resident appointment in 1962 as a nearly unknown singer from the United States, and at the Metropolitan Opera, where he took on some of the most challenging tenor roles.
        Mr. King won acclaim for roles by Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss, composers in whom he specialized.
        At the Met, he made his debut in 1966 as Florestan in Beethoven's ''Fidelio,'' the first of 113 appearances there. He set records for the most performances in two particularly demanding roles on the Met roster, Bacchus in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' and the Emperor in ''Die Frau Ohne Schatten,'' a role he sang in the opera's Met premier. Met audiences also heard him in works by Berg, Bizet, Britten, Puccini and Wagner.
        His final performance was in 2000 at Indiana University in a production of Wagner's ''Walküre,'' in which he took the role of Siegmund.
        James King was born in Dodge City, Kan., to an Irish father and a mother of German descent. As a boy he learned to play the violin and sang in church choirs. He studied music at the University of Missouri, Kansas City, earning a master's degree, and started out as a baritone before training as a tenor with Martial Singher in New York, and with Max Lorenz.
        Keeping a baritone quality in his lower notes, he acquired a distinctive, recognizable timbre that assured him a long career. His voice was described as strong and dependable, with the stamina to sustain him in longer dramatic roles, and his six feet of height added impact to his performances.
        Howard Klein of The New York Times, welcoming him as the Met's Florestan in 1966, hailed him as ''among the few tenors around today who can fill the role'' and still have ''plenty of voice to spare.''
        James King won an American Opera Audition held in Cincinnati in 1961 and went in search of a career in Europe, as did many budding American singers at the time. His professional debut was as Cavaradossi in Puccini's ''Tosca'' at the Teatro della Pergola in Florence. He repeated the role at the Teatro Nuovo in Milan, gaining his first resident appointment in Berlin with a debut as the Italian tenor in ''Der Rosenkavalier.''
        Over the years he also sang at London's Royal Opera House, in Salzburg and at the Bayreuth Festival; and in Cincinnati, San Francisco and Philadelphia in the United States.
        He starred in German opera films, regularly sang in radio and television productions of opera, and made recordings under Sir Georg Solti and Karl Böhm.
        His survivors include his third wife, Elizabeth; three sons; and two daughters.
      