
        Ronald S. Rivlin, an applied mathematician who conducted pioneering studies of the elastic properties of rubber and other materials and developed formulas to explain their behavior, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 90. His death was confirmed by his family.
        Dr. Rivlin began his work in the 1940's, using tools of theoretical physics to investigate the properties of vulcanized rubber. He and others experimented with the effects of various loads in deforming rubber and contributed to a field known as finite elasticity theory, which looks at how materials behave during elastic deformation. The work has had subsequent applications in materials engineering.
        Daniel D. Joseph, a professor of aerospace engineering and mechanics at the University of Minnesota, said Dr. Rivlin helped describe how rubber behaved under stress and strain and how it fractured. Later, Dr. Rivlin studied the behavior of fluids under different forces.
        He and others developed equations to express the behavior of fluids and other complex materials that fall under the field of rheology.
        In collaboration with other scientists, he developed equations known as Reiner-Rivlin and Rivlin-Ericksen for fluids, and the Mooney-Rivlin equation for incompressible solids, materials that can be deformed but do not change in volume. All three equations are used to explain the behaviors of materials.
        Ronald Samuel Rivlin was born in London. He received an undergraduate degree in physics and mathematics from St. John's College at Cambridge in 1937. He earned his doctorate from Cambridge in 1952.
        Dr. Rivlin worked as a physicist for the British Rubber Producers Research Association before being named superintendent of research for the association from 1950 to 1953.
        He was then appointed a professor of applied mathematics at Brown University, where he became chairman of the division of applied mathematics, and taught there until 1967.
        Dr. Rivlin became a United States citizen in 1955. He was a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        From 1967 to 1980, he was director of the Center for the Application of Mathematics at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., where he was also a professor of mathematics and mechanics.
        His wife of 57 years, the former Violet LoRusso, survives him. Until recently, the couple lived in Bethlehem.
        Dr. Rivlin is also survived by a son, John M., of Palo Alto, and a grandchild.
      