
        John L. Tatta, a pioneer in the cable television industry, who worked with Charles Dolan to build Cablevision into one of the nation's leading providers, died on Thursday on Long Island. He was 84.
        The cause was complications from cancer, Cablevision said.
        Mr. Tatta started his career as an installer at Dictograph, an interoffice communications equipment company, where he worked for 23 years.
        He joined Mr. Dolan to start Sterling Cable in 1966, overseeing the laying of underground cable in Manhattan.
        In a telephone interview, Mr. Dolan recalled one of Mr. Tatta's contributions. The company had gotten a cable franchise, Mr. Dolan said, ''so we had the chore of wiring Manhattan with coaxial cable.''
        The company had to wire apartments along the Upper East Side, he said, but could not get the wires into the necessary pipes.
        ''John went out and hired a tug boat and stapled the wires along the sea wall in the East River,'' Mr. Dolan recalled. ''We told him we didn't have permission, but he said that nobody would ever see it.''
        Later a child fell into the river and someone jumped in and saved the boy. ''They put the rescue picture on the front page of The Daily News,'' Mr. Dolan said. ''The bureau of franchises summoned us down. We explained it and they were upset. But it had proved its importance and they let us keep it.''
        Mr. Tatta later helped pioneer the televising of Knicks and Rangers games via cable from Madison Square Garden after Sterling Manhattan became the first cable company to win exclusive professional sports rights.
        Mr. Tatta became president of Cablevision in 1981 and served on the boards of St. Francis Hospital and the National Cable Television Association and the Columbus Citizens Foundation.
        He was also on the board of Cablevision.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Frasca, whom he married in 1949; two daughters, Deborah De Cabia and Lisa Crowley; and eight grandchildren.
      