
        George Best, an Irish soccer star who captivated the public with his flamboyant skill on the field and his playboy exploits off it, died yesterday in London after a long struggle with alcohol abuse. He was 59.
        Best was hospitalized in 2000 for a liver condition and had a liver transplant in 2002. He was admitted to the hospital on Oct. 1 with flulike symptoms, and went into intensive care last week because of a lung infection, according to a report posted on the Manchester United Web site. The report said that he developed internal bleeding early Thursday morning.
        In the staid and tradition-bound world of English soccer during the 1960's, Best quickly came to personify the rebelliousness of that decade. As soccer's first pop icon, often compared to the American football star Joe Namath of the Jets, Best began his professional career with Manchester United, one of the most powerful clubs in the world.
        Best was to soccer what the Beatles were to music and pop culture: a reminder that the world was about to change, for better or worse. He was an entertainer on the field long before sportsmen became celebrities. He was a working-class hero in the most working-class British sport, continually sticking his finger in the eye of the establishment.
        He joined Manchester United in 1961 as a 15-year-old apprentice from the public housing of Belfast, Northern Ireland. Bob Bishop, Manchester United's scout in Ireland, had discovered Best and sent a message to the club's manager, Sir Matt Busby: ''I think I found you a genius.''
        Best made his Manchester United debut at right wing on Sept. 14, 1963, against West Bromwich Albion, and scored his first goal in only his second league appearance. The club won the English First Division (now Premier League) championship the next season, 1964-65, and again in 1966-67. His brilliant yet tumultuous career in the north of England ended when he walked out on the club in 1974 at age 27 after having scored 137 goals in 361 league appearances for United and an additional 41 goals in 105 games in various domestic and international cup competitions. Over all, he scored 180 goals in 465 appearances for United.
        Best played in his first international match for Northern Ireland at age 17 and made 37 international appearances, scoring nine goals. In November 1972, he was forced to withdraw from a game against Spain in Northern Ireland because of death threats against him from the Irish Republican Army. Best never played in the World Cup finals because Northern Ireland did not qualify until 1982.
        Best dazzled the world with his prodigious dribbling skills, often taking a withdrawn position in the midfield, then dashing forward, the ball seemingly tethered to his foot. His touch of genius and individual flair on the field were matched only by his outrageous behavior off the field, which mesmerized and often incensed a sporting public that had come to expect its soccer stars to be seen on Saturdays and not heard from the rest of the week.
        Perhaps the apex of Best's career came at Wembley Stadium in London in 1968, when he scored the eventual game-winning goal in Manchester United's classic 4-1 victory over Benfica of Portugal in the European Cup final, the most prestigious club competition in Europe. Best was selected as the European Player of the Year in 1968.
        That was only the beginning of Best's roller-coaster career, from the pinnacle with Manchester United to forgettable lower-division clubs in Britain, Spain and Australia. He also played for three clubs in the North American Soccer League from 1976 to 1981, scoring 54 goals in 139 games.
        Off the field, Best nurtured a playboy image that transcended the world of soccer. He built a mansion in Manchester and lived under police protection as he was besieged by women. With Mike Summerbee, a player for crosstown rival Manchester City, Best opened a number of fashion boutiques and hair salons. He also became the proprietor of a travel agency and several nightclubs.
        All the enterprises were ultimately unsuccessful. Still, Best's popularity was unprecedented -- during the 1960's he received about 10,000 letters a week from fans around the world and employed three full-time staffers to answer them.
        Frequent and unexplained upheavals with club management were seen at the time as the actions of an obstreperous, immature athlete. Later, it came to light that Best had a drinking problem. In 1982, while playing in San Jose, Calif., Best was suspended indefinitely by the club and entered an alcohol rehabilitation program. During a bankruptcy hearing in London in 1983, Best told the court, ''I am an alcoholic.''
        ''My drinking over the last 12 years has been the root of my trouble,'' he added.
        Best is survived by a son, an ex-wife, four sisters, a brother and his father.
        Whatever off-the-field demons Best dealt with, on the field he was famous for flaunting his skills while making the opposition feel impotent. With his speed, balance, vision and control of the ball, he would taunt opponents.
        He once enraged the opposition when he tapped the ball off the shins of two defenders before setting off for the goal. In one game against Chelsea, he took off his red Manchester United jersey and, with his foot on the ball, waved the jersey like a bullfighter in a defender's face. His theatrics resulted in his being treated savagely by opposing players, and his quick temper often led to confrontations on the field.
        Always impetuous and outspoken, Best was inducted into the International Football Hall of Champions in Brussels in 2000, and caused a stir when he criticized the skills of David Beckham, a star for Manchester United at the time. ''He cannot kick with his left foot,'' Best said. ''He cannot head a ball. He cannot tackle and he doesn't score many goals. Apart from that, he's all right.''
        Several years ago, Best summed up his life when he said: ''I spent a lot of my money on booze, birds and fast cars. The rest I just squandered.''
      