
        Ed Peterson, who prowled the deserts, mountains and meadows of Southern California, often on his hands and knees, to collect wildflower seeds as part of a foundation's mission to preserve the area's native flora, died on Nov. 14 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. He was 100.
        The death was confirmed by his brother, Wilbur.
        Mr. Peterson's title was ''seedsman and volunteer extraordinaire'' for the Theodore Payne Foundation for Wildflowers and Native Plants in Sun Valley, Calif.
        The foundation was founded by Mr. Payne, a British horticulturalist who fell in love with California wildflowers upon seeing them at a botanical exhibit in England in 1882. He immigrated to Los Angeles in 1893 and a decade later set up a nursery specializing in selling native wildflower seeds to the public.
        He could find no one to succeed him, and in 1960 he set up the nonprofit foundation to carry on his work. Mr. Peterson began its seed-collecting program in 1962, a year before Mr. Payne died at 91. In addition to collecting seeds, he sorted, cleaned, packaged and sold them.
        Clad in bluejeans, with walking stick in hand, Mr. Peterson dodged vicious thorns and occasional rattlesnakes in nearly a half-century of floral expeditions that annually yielded no more than 20 pounds of mostly minuscule seeds. He regarded tents as a ''nuisance'' and slept on the ground, including on his last outing to Anza-Borrego Desert State Park on his 100th birthday this spring.
        He knew the backcountry so well that he could predict at what bend or mile marker a particular flower would appear. His technique was ''search and re-search,'' meaning that he would find a plant in bloom and then come back when it had turned brown and gone to seed. To find plants again required intricate calculations.
        In recent years, he continued his hikes despite becoming legally blind five years ago. He knew hundreds of flowers and identified them by others' descriptions, giving both common and Latin names.
        Edward Leslie Peterson was born in Los Angeles on April 8, 1905, and grew up in Hollywood, where he watered his family's Shasta daisies and tended the vegetable garden.
        After high school, he worked at a local nursery. He earned a degree in botany from the University of California, Los Angeles, before spending 25 years as landscape supervisor at Los Angeles City College.
        He is survived by his brother, of Grants Pass, Ore. Mr. Peterson married for the first time at age 70. His wife, Gladys, died in 1990.
        Mr. Peterson told National Public Radio in 1998 that he had been unable to hunt down only one flower he sought, the red-flowered lobelia, though he knew ''pretty well what it looks like.''
        Many of the seeds Mr. Peterson found were microscopic and were sold by the apothecary spoonful, not by the pound, he told The Los Angeles Times in 1988.
        ''You could start as an infant and die a centenarian, and you couldn't gather 20 pounds of California fuchsia seed in your lifetime,'' he said wistfully.
      