
        Vic Power, the stylish-fielding first baseman who was one of the first Latino stars in the major leagues in the decade after World War II, died yesterday at a hospital in Bayamón, P.R. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, his sister Carmen Pellot Power told The Associated Press.
        An exciting player who caught everything one-handed when that was an uncommon flourish, Power won seven consecutive Gold Gloves, from 1958 to 1964. Playing for five teams in a career spanning 12 seasons, almost exclusively in the American League, he was a .300 hitter three times and an All-Star four times.
        Power never stole more than nine bases in a season, but playing for the Cleveland Indians against the Detroit Tigers in August 1958, he stole home in the eighth inning, then did it again in the 10th for the winning run.
        But even before reaching the majors, Power was enveloped in a controversy surrounding the Yankees' failure to have a black player six years after Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers.
        Power was considered the No. 1 prospect to become the first black player on the Yankees, having led the American Association in batting with a .349 average for the Kansas City Blues, the Yankees' top minor league team, in 1953. But he never made it into a Yankees uniform.
        ''I am told that Power is a good hitter but a poor fielder,'' Dan Topping, the Yankees' co-owner, told The United Press in August 1953, while maintaining that ''a player's race never will have anything to do with whether he plays for the Yankees.''
        The Yankees traded Power to the Philadelphia Athletics in December 1953 and did not have a black player until 1955, when they brought up Elston Howard, who had been Power's teammate on the Kansas City farm team.
        Power later contended that the Yankees did not promote him because he dated white women in Kansas City, Mo., something that seemed natural to him since racial mixing was common in Puerto Rico, and because he had a reputation as a brawler.
        ''Maybe the Yankees didn't want a black player who would openly date light-skinned women, or who would respond with his fists when white pitchers threw beanballs at him,'' Power told Danny Peary in ''We Played the Game.''
        Power, a native of Arecibo, P.R., and the son of a sugar-mill worker, had a mediocre rookie season with the Philadelphia Athletics in 1954. But he hit .319 in 1955, when the Athletics moved to Kansas City, making him the runner-up to Detroit's Al Kaline for the A.L. batting championship, and he hit .309 in 1956.
        It was Power's fielding that caught everyone's eye and left him with a reputation as a showboat. In addition to his one-handed swipes, he usually played deep behind the first-base bag, enabling him to make plays on ground balls that other first basemen could not handle.
        ''Power plays 15 feet farther back than me or anybody else and takes the throw on the dead run,'' Bill Skowron, the Yankees' first basemen, told The Saturday Evening Post in 1961. ''He can do it because his reflexes are so great and because he's got the best glove hand in baseball.''
        Power and Ruben Gomez, the New York Giants pitcher, who made his debut in 1953, were the first outstanding Puerto Ricans in the major leagues during the 1950's. Roberto Clemente, the Hall of Fame outfielder of the Pittsburgh Pirates who became a hero in Puerto Rico, did not arrive in the majors until 1955.
        Power was traded to the Indians in 1958 and also played for the Minnesota Twins, the Los Angeles and California Angels and the Philadelphia Phillies. He retired after the 1965 season with 1,716 hits, 126 home runs and a career batting average of .284. He later scouted for the Angels and conducted baseball clinics in Puerto Rico.
        A listing of Power's survivors in addition to his sister was not immediately available.
        Power made no apologies for his flashy style.
        ''I noticed one thing early in my career, you've got to be different,'' he told Larry Moffi in ''This Side of Cooperstown.''
        As Power put it: ''Ted Williams, Stan Musial, Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays, they all had a style. Like Willie Mays had that basket catch, I felt I should have something different. Another thing: catching the ball with one hand makes it easier.''
      