
        William L. McLaughlin, a radiation scientist who devised accurate and widely used methods for measuring the radiation absorbed by cancer patients and by many foods and commercial products, died Oct. 26 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 77.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Mr. McLaughlin spent four decades as a researcher with the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Md. The institute maintains a laboratory to establish national measurement standards.
        Beginning in the 1950's, at the outset of the atomic era, Mr. McLaughlin and others worked to develop reliable recording devices for high doses of ionizing radiation. The field is known as dosimetry, and as early as the 60's Mr. McLaughlin was devising a means to measure doses using dyes that change color when exposed to radioactive materials.
        Radiochromic dyes have since been used in the disposable medical supplies industry, where radiation is used to sterilize syringes and other products, and in plastics and food packaging, to monitor the dosage received by a product.
        Stephen M. Seltzer, a physicist and leader of the institute's radiation interactions and dosimetry group, said Mr. McLaughlin was ''largely responsible for quite literally inventing a new spectrum of ionizing radiation dosimeters.''
        In related work, Mr. McLaughlin adapted fiber-optic cables to allow dosimeters to be read at a distance. He studied the irradiation of vegetables and other foods, a process used to extend their shelf life, and helped work out ways to measure the parameters of radiation effects in medical patients, when high levels of radiation are aimed at tumors.
        William Lowndes McLaughlin was born March 30, 1928, in Stony Point, Tenn. He earned his undergraduate degree from Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia, and a master's degree in physics from George Washington University in 1963.
        He joined the national institute in 1951 and was later appointed as a project leader in its radiation physics division. Mr. McLaughlin helped write an influential textbook, ''Dosimetry for Radiation Processing'' (Taylor & Francis, 1989). He retired in 1996.
        Mr. McLaughlin was also a prolific composer of bluegrass music and several of his songs have been professionally recorded.
        His first wife, Nancy Shepherd, died in 1996. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Scott McLaughlin.
        He is also survived by two sons, David, of Winchester, Va., and Peter, of Tucson, both professional bluegrass musicians; two sisters, Margaret Grove of Charlottesville, Va., and Addie Noble Ours of Petersburg, W.Va.; two stepsons, Frederick Anderson of San Diego and Theodore Kiesselbach of Minneapolis; and six grandchildren.
      