
        Clive Bradley, whose arrangements for steel-drum orchestras in Trinidad and New York City won championships from 1970 to 2005, died on Saturday in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He was 69.
        He died four days after a stroke, said Rawlston Charles, who owns the store and record label Charlie's Records in Bedford-Stuyvesant and was a longtime friend.
        Mr. Bradley was one of the most skillful and admired practitioners of a longstanding Carnival tradition. Steel bands, also known as pan bands, compete each year, performing concert versions of soca and calypso songs. The arrangements are elaborate suites of variations and are played in Trinidad by orchestras of 100 musicians or more; Brooklyn bands are somewhat smaller.
        Many of the drummers do not read music, so an arranger not only creates the 8- or 10-minute competition piece but also teaches the parts to the band members, who memorize them. Mr. Bradley's arrangements were prized for their continual inventiveness. In one, he had the drummers take the rubber tips off their drumsticks to evoke a rainstorm.
        Mr. Bradley was born in Port of Spain and was a self-taught musician. He attended Fatima College in Port of Spain, majoring in mathematics, and later taught there. But he also worked steadily as a musician, playing guitar and keyboards and arranging for the calypso bands known in Trinidad as brass bands. He had his own small group, the Bradley Bunch, and briefly formed a brass band, Sounds Incorporated. When it dissolved he was drawn into arranging for steel orchestra.
        He brought his big-band experience to his pan arrangements as he began a long association with the Witco Desperadoes in Trinidad in the late 1960's. He won his first Panorama championship with them in 1970, with an arrangement of Lord Kitchener's ''Margie,'' and had winning arrangements with them again in 1976, 1977, 1983, 1985, 1999 and 2000, with many second and third prizes in between. His arrangement of David Rudder's ''High Mas'' for the Anima Nutones won the competition in 1998.
        Mr. Bradley divided his time between New York and Trinidad, often working with two bands a year for the February Carnival in Trinidad and two for the Labor Day Carnival in Brooklyn.
        He described his method in an interview for Panonthenet.com: ''The arrangement is manufactured from the lyrics and the phraseology, more or less,'' he said. ''I just look at the tune and see what I can use.''
        He also did some studio arranging for calypso and soca songs by Trinidadian hitmakers including Lord Kitchener, Lord Nelson, the Mighty Swallow and Sugar Aloes.
        At this year's Panorama competition in September in Brooklyn, Mr. Bradley's arrangements won first prize, for the Pantonic Steel Orchestra, and second prize, for D'Radoes Steel Orchestra, the first time one arranger has done so.
        Mr. Bradley lived for many years in Queens, but had moved back to Port of Spain in recent years. He was divorced and is survived by two children, Corwin and Kelly.
      