
        Peter Edgar Haas Sr., who with his brother Walter engineered the explosive growth of the family business, Levi Strauss, into the world's biggest maker of brand-name jeans, died Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 86.
        His death was announced by Levi Strauss & Company, which he joined in 1945 and served as president, chairman and, finally, chairman emeritus. His chief contributions were in the company's financial and manufacturing operations and in its social and charitable activities.
        Levi Strauss had long remained the Western outfitter begun in 1853 in the wake of the California Gold Rush by Levi Strauss, an immigrant from Bavaria. Levi Strauss left a thriving manufacturing and dry goods business to his four nephews, who rebuilt it after the San Francisco earthquake and fire of 1906.
        It was only after Peter and his older brother Walter, who were descendants of a nephew of Levi Strauss, took control of the business after World War II that Levi's became an international brand and, after that, made a mark in fashion as well. Movie idols like Marlon Brando in ''The Wild One'' (1953) and James Dean helped popularize Levis. After that, denim blue jeans, by Levi Strauss and dozens of other makers, became not just work clothes but daily garb, and eventually something approaching high style.
        In 1959, company sales totaled $40 million. The number of workers rose from about 3,000 in 1961 to more than 12,000 in 1966. When it went public in 1971, the company had almost 20,000 employees worldwide and sales of more than $400 million, with operations in 50 countries. It was taken private again in 1985. For the 2004 fiscal year, the company had sales of $4.1 billion
        In the 1950's -- years before the civil rights legislation of the 1960's -- Peter Haas insisted that Levi Strauss would open factories in Southern towns only if their black workers were treated as equals. Through the Miriam and Peter Haas Foundation, he contributed millions of dollars to support early-childhood programs for poor families.
        Peter Haas Sr. was born in San Francisco and at first wanted to became an engineer. He switched to economics and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1940. Having been rejected for military service because of poor eyesight, he received an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1943. He spent part of the war working as a riveter at a military contractor.
        After some reluctance, he joined the family business and with his brother assumed more and more responsibilities from their father and an uncle. Peter and Walter shared and exchanged duties along with titles. Peter was executive vice president from 1958 to 1970, president and chief executive until 1981, chairman from then to 1989, after which he became chairman of the executive committee. He was named chairman emeritus last year. Using a wheelchair, he continued to come to work until shortly before his death.
        Walter Haas died in 1995.
        Peter Haas Sr.'s marriage to Josephine Baum Haas ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 24 years, Mimi Lurie Haas; a son and a daughter from his earlier marriage, Peter E. Jr., of Novato, Calif., and Margaret Haas, of Ross, Calif.; two stepsons, Ari and Daniel Lurie, both of San Francisco; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      