
        George F. Baker III, the retired financier who has been lost since last Thursday, when the small plane he was flying disappeared off Nantucket, and is now presumed to be dead, was the senior trustee of the George F. Baker Trust, a family philanthropy. Mr. Baker was 66 and lived in Houston, Nantucket and, formerly, Manhattan.
        An experienced pilot, Mr. Baker was at the controls of a twin-engine Beechcraft Baron when the plane, approaching Nantucket, disappeared from radar Thursday afternoon after a flight from Teterboro Airport in New Jersey. He was believed to be alone in the plane, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.
        Mr. Baker was a great-grandson of George Fisher Baker, an industrialist and, in the early 1900's, the chairman of the First National Bank of New York, a forerunner of Citibank. The foundation carrying the family name was created under the will of his son, Mr. Baker's grandfather, and was established in 1937.
        The Baker Trust, worth about $15 million, primarily supports education, hospitals, social services and civic affairs, through grants or seed money. In 2002, it gave more that $2.4 million in 48 grants, ranging from $1,450 to $100,000. Mr. Baker focused on education and medicine as his chief interests.
        George Fisher Baker III was born in Manhattan and graduated from Harvard in 1961. He went to work at what was then the First National City Bank in 1963. He received an M.B.A from the Harvard Business School in 1964.
        He was an executive at Lehman Brothers in 1967, when he and Richard B. Nye founded what is now the investment firm of Baker Nye L. P. in Manhattan. He retired as a general partner in 1999.
        Among his favorite personal philanthropies were St. Paul's School in New Hampshire, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
        Mr. Baker's marriage to Marianna Johnson Baker of Manhattan ended in divorce. His survivors include his wife of 13 years, Sarah Jones Baker; a son and daughter from his earlier marriage, George F. IV and Joanna Johnson Baker, both of Manhattan; two stepsons, John and David Roady; a brother, Anthony K. Baker, and a sister, Pauline Baker Pitt, both of Palm Beach, Fla.; a half-brother, Kane K. Baker, also of Palm Beach; and a half-sister, Lavinia Baker of Palm Beach.
      