
        Robert Stevens Baker, a nationally renowned church organist and choirmaster and the founding director of the Yale Institute of Sacred Music, died on Jan. 24 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 88.
        His death was announced by the institute, which he led at its beginnings in 1973 and directed for its first three years.
        Dr. Baker's reputation as an organist and one of America's most knowledgeable scholars of church music was well established by 1961, the year Union Theological Seminary in New York chose him as director of its School of Sacred Music. The title was changed to dean in 1965.
        In 1973, he went to Yale to form the Institute of Sacred Music, making it a direct offspring of Union Theological's School of Sacred Music. The Yale body was envisioned as a crossroads for musicians, ministers, scholars and practitioners, in partnership with the Yale School of Music and the Yale Divinity School.
        Dr. Baker brought with him three colleagues from the Union Theological faculty as co-founders: Richard French, a musicologist; Jeffery Rowthorn, the seminary chaplain; and Mina Belle Packer, his assistant dean, who organized the institute's administration.
        The institute accepted its first students in 1974.
        Dr. Baker stepped down as director in 1976. He remained on the faculty until 1987, when he was named professor emeritus of music.
        Robert Baker was born in Pontiac, Ill., the son of a lawyer and judge. He started playing the organ at 12 and accompanied silent films well before he graduated from Illinois Wesleyan University on a full organ scholarship in 1938.
        He studied organ with Clarence Dickinson at the Union Theological School of Sacred Music and received a master of sacred music degree in 1940 and a doctorate in 1944.
        He was an organist/choirmaster at several prominent New York City houses of worship before joining Union Theological .
        Dr. Baker's wife, Mary Depler Baker, died last July; they had been married 61 years. He is survived by a son, James S., of Falls Church, Va.; a daughter, Martha B. Russo of Chandler, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      