
        Heinz Heinemann, an industrial chemist who helped develop methods of transforming coal and natural gas into gasoline, died on Nov. 23 at a hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 92.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Heinemann, a specialist in preparing chemical catalysts that enabled the conversions, worked for the Mobil Research and Development Corporation before joining Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California as a senior scientist in 1978.
        While working for Mobil, he began a process to transform coal and natural gas into methanol, a type of alcohol often used as a solvent. Dr. Heinemann and his colleagues developed a catalyst called ZSM-5, added it to the methanol and converted the substance into gasoline.
        Although the method was expensive, it was used successfully in the 1980's in New Zealand, where it was preferred over regular gasoline, which had to be imported and was more costly then.
        Alexis T. Bell, interim chairman of the chemical engineering department at the University of California, Berkeley, said Dr. Heinemann also developed a catalyst to break down solid coal into synthetic oil-like materials used for energy, in a process known as coal liquefaction.
        Dr. Heinemann and others developed methods to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, air pollutants released by automobile engines, industry and other sources.
        Heinz Heinemann was born in Berlin. He received his doctorate in physical chemistry from the University of Basel in Switzerland in 1937 and became an American citizen in 1944.
        After working for oil companies in the Southwest, he became a senior research chemist for the Houdry Process Corporation, from 1948 to 1957. He then directed exploratory chemical research for the M. W. Kellogg Company before moving to Mobil in 1969.
        The American Chemical Society gave Dr. Heinemann its E. V. Murphree Award in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry in 1971. From 1956 to 1960, he served as president of the International Congress of Catalysis. He was a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
        Dr. Heinemann's first wife, Elaine P. Heinemann, died in 1993. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Barbara A. Tenenbaum, a historian at the Library of Congress.
        He is also survived by a son, Peter M., of San Francisco; and a daughter, Sue Heinemann of Oakland, Calif.
      