
        John Langstaff, who founded the ''Christmas Revels,'' the long-running seasonal pageant of traditional music, dance and theater that plays in Boston, New York and other cities around the country, died on Tuesday in Basel, Switzerland. He was 84.
        The cause was a stroke, said Alan Casso, a spokesman for the Revels company in Watertown, Mass.
        Since 1971 the ''Christmas Revels'' have been presented at the Sanders Theater in Cambridge, Mass., in a seasonal but nonreligious rite of merriment, with a cast of professional actors, musicians and dancers as well as spirited amateurs and members of the audience, who are encouraged to participate.
        Each year the production adopts a different culture and historic period as the setting in which to explore the ancient roots of the winter solstice and Christmas celebrations; medieval England, Slavic Eastern Europe, Russia and France have been popular themes of Revels past. Last weekend the 26th ''Revels'' in New York was presented at Symphony Space. The theme this time was Elizabethan England, and the script portrayed a village busily and mirthfully preparing solstice entertainments for the queen.
        The idea for the ''Revels'' grew out of the diverse interests of its founder. He was born in Brooklyn on Christmas Eve 1920, to musical parents who, Mr. Langstaff said, were intent on having a Christmas baby; to induce labor that day, he said, his mother ran up and down stairs and heaved furniture. He grew up surrounded by both folk and classical music. In addition to studying at Juilliard and at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, he attended the Pinewoods Camp for country music and dance in Plymouth, Mass.
        Mr. Langstaff enlisted in the United States Army during World War II, and during the 1940's and 50's worked as a baritone soloist, singing with the New York Philharmonic, the National Symphony and other orchestras. In England he was the host of a children's television show for the BBC and recorded classical and folk music with the producer George Martin, who would later work with the Beatles.
        In late 1957 he presented ''A Christmas Masque of Traditional Revels'' at Town Hall in Manhattan. It lost money, but was a critical success, and Mr. Langstaff continued to develop the concept. In 1966 he did a version of the masque for an NBC broadcast in the ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' series; its cast included Dustin Hoffman, not yet famous, as the dragon slain by St. George.
        The Revels company in Massachusetts now presents a pageant each December and has developed productions for spring, summer and fall. The company licenses the Revels name, scripts and other materials to independent companies; besides the ones in New York and Boston, there are now eight other Revels companies around the country. One of those companies was started by his daughter Carol, who also helped her father with the first production in Cambridge.
        Mr. Langstaff retired from the company in 1995, but remained director emeritus. He taught music at the Potomac School in McLean, Va., and at the Shady Hill School in Cambridge. He also wrote children's books, including ''Frog Went a-Courtin,' '' which won a Caldecott Medal in 1956 for its illustrations by Feodor Rojankovsky.
        In addition to his daughter Carol, of Sharon, Vt., he is survived by his wife, Nancy Woodbridge Langstaff, of Cambridge; two other daughters, Deborah, of Basel, and Caitlin, of Old Tappan, N.J.; two sons, John, of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Gary, of Beverly, Mass.; nine grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      