
        Dr. William G. Speed III, a physician and researcher at Johns Hopkins who helped establish migraines and other severe headaches as legitimate medical disorders and developed medicines to treat them, died on Nov. 15 at Greater Baltimore Medical Center. He was 87.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Speed taught at Johns Hopkins for five decades and discovered his specialty in the diagnosis and treatment of headaches early in his career. While an undergraduate, he suffered from migraines and was struck by the dismissive reception of the medical establishment in the 1930's.
        At the time, headaches were often considered psychosomatic and usually without a physiological basis.
        Dr. Speed and others studied headaches as clinicians and gradually began to document their view that head pain was frequently caused by vascular abnormalities or tumors or was brought on by whiplash and other neck injuries.
        In the 1960's, he helped put into place a new therapy, involving the compound ergotamine, which narrows blood vessels and prevents the release of a protein that irritates nerve endings and results in headache.
        Dr. Donlin M. Long, a professor of neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins, said Dr. Speed was instrumental in proving the effectiveness of inhaling ergotamine, as opposed to taking it in pill form.
        The drug is still prescribed, but has largely given way to other drugs for migraines, including triptan and beta blockers, given to ward off a headache before its onset.
        Regardless, Dr. Speed, who continued to practice until 2002, ''remained an enthusiast for whatever therapy helped to treat patients, and he moved quickly to embrace the new drugs,'' said Dr. Long, who studies headache and chronic pain.
        Toward the close of his career, Dr. Speed widened his research, and looked at headaches associated with head trauma and the relationship between cervical spine injuries and head pain.
        William George Speed III was born in Baltimore. He graduated from Trinity College in Hartford and received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins.
        After training at Johns Hopkins, he was named an instructor in medicine there in 1953. He became an assistant professor in 1964 and then an associate professor of medicine in 1973. He founded Speed Headache Associates, a private clinic in Baltimore, and retired three years ago.
        Dr. Speed's first wife, the former Jean LaVine, died in 1998. They were married for 51 years. His second wife, the former Margaret Turner, died in July.
        He is survived by two sons, William G. IV, of Rocky Hill, Conn., and David M., of Barrington, R.I.; a daughter, Leslie B. Speed of Baltimore; a brother, C. MacNair Speed of Kent Island, Md.; and four grandchildren.
      