
        T. Edward Hambleton, the gentlemanly theatrical producer who was a founder of the Phoenix Theater, the trailblazing Off Broadway institution that helped develop the careers of actors, writers and directors for three decades, died on Saturday night in Baltimore. He was 94 and lived in Cockeysville, Md.
        He became ill only the day before he died, his daughter Susan said. An esophageal tumor was found on Friday, but on Thursday he had been drinking Champagne and eating oysters.
        In 1953, working with Norris Houghton, Mr. Hambleton founded the Phoenix in a former Yiddish theater at Second Avenue and 12th Street in the East Village. Both men believed the economics and savage competition of Broadway to be bad for the theater, and their idea for the Phoenix was simple: great old plays and great new ones. The best seats would cost $3.30, with many others going for $1.
        The first production, in 1953, was Sidney Howard's ''Madam, Will You Walk.'' The comic fable starred Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn, and it was not only a high point in their young careers but also a smashing debut for the company.
        ''Things have begun auspiciously for the new Phoenix Theater,'' Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times, adding that the Phoenix ''may turn out to be a very valuable institution.''
        Sure enough, over the next 30 years, the Phoenix would provide an artistic home for many luminaries in world theater at one time or another, including Tyrone Guthrie, Uta Hagen, Jerome Robbins, Marcel Marceau, Helen Hayes, Rosemary Harris and John Houseman. Montgomery Clift made his final stage appearance in a Phoenix production (Chekhov's ''Seagull'' in 1954); Meryl Streep made one of her first (''Secret Service'' in 1976).
        The company put on more than 50 productions in its first decade -- and 164 in all. More than a few played on Broadway, including the musical ''Once Upon a Mattress'' in 1959 (with a young comedian named Carol Burnett) and Arthur Kopit's ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad,'' in 1963 (with a 22-year-old Sam Waterston).
        Mr. Houghton left the Phoenix in 1962, but Mr. Hambleton, as its managing director, continued to produce off and on Broadway, collaborating with the Association of Producing Artists for several seasons, and eventually moving the Phoenix to the Upper East Side. (Mr. Houghton died in 2001, at 92.)
        After 1976, the Phoenix increasingly concentrated on new plays. It helped develop work by Wendy Wasserstein (''Uncommon Women and Others'' and ''Isn't It Romantic''), Marsha Norman (''Getting Out'') and Peter Handke's ''Sorrow Beyond Dreams'' before the company's shoestring existence finally forced it to close for good in the early 1980's.
        Prone to neither grandstanding nor gamesmanship, Mr. Hambleton -- known as T. by friends -- kept a low profile but was passionate about the arts, said Harold Prince, who got his first directing job from the Phoenix, an early-1960's road production of ''The Matchmaker.''
        ''T. was a breed that was not unfamiliar then but is increasingly unfamiliar now,'' said Mr. Prince, who went on to direct the Broadway premieres of ''Cabaret,'' ''Company'' and ''Sweeney Todd,'' among other shows. ''He was elegant and inquisitive, but really respectful. He honored artists.''
        Born to a wealthy, respected family -- his father was a Baltimore banker -- Mr. Hambleton attended St. Paul's, the prep school in Concord, N.H., and graduated from Yale in 1934. He considered a career in chemistry, but that fizzled in the face of a newfound love for theater.
        ''I decided it was theater or nothing,'' he said in a 2000 interview with The Times.
        He soon decamped to New York and started rubbing shoulders with Houseman and Orson Welles during the fervent years of the Mercury Theater. In 1937, he had his first Broadway producing credit with a drama called ''Robin Landing.'' It was not a hit, nor was his follow-up, ''I Know What I Like.'' Neither was his third attempt, ''The First Crocus,'' in 1942, which ran less than a week.
        World War II interrupted the losing streak; Mr. Hambleton served with the Navy in the Pacific from 1942 to 1945. Upon his return, he made headlines when he produced Bertolt Brecht's ''Galileo,'' an attack on fascism, just weeks after the author had fled the United States after testifying to the House Un-American Activities Committee in Washington. The play, which ran for just a week on Broadway in 1947, was Brecht's last original drama produced on Broadway before his death in 1956.
        In 2000, Mr. Hambleton received a Tony Award for lifetime achievement, and in June, Mr. Prince and others created The T Fellowship at Columbia University to support and develop emerging theatrical producers. Mr. Prince said Mr. Hambleton was very active in the program till the end of his life, often traveling to New York to discuss it. The first fellows are to be named next year.
        Mr. Hambleton's first wife, the former Caroline Hoysradt, died in 1947. Two years later he married Merrell Hopkins, who survives him. He is also survived by three daughters, Susan, of Manhattan, Mary, of Brooklyn, and Linda Hambleton Panitz, of Baltimore; two sons, T. Edward Hambleton Jr. of North Salem, N.Y., and Mark Hambleton of Timonium, Md.; six grandchildren; and five great grandchildren.
        On the occasion of his Tony, Mr. Hambleton was asked what he thought was the legacy of the Phoenix. His response was typically simple. ''I think that most of the things we did were good for the theater,'' he said. ''I'm glad that we did them.''
      