
        Tahsin Ozguc, an eminent Turkish archaeologist whose digs in Anatolia documented the intermingling of Bronze Age cultures and commerce in what is now central Turkey, died on Oct. 28 in Ankara. He was 89.
        His death was announced on the Web site of Ankara University, but was only recently brought to The Times's attention.
        For more than 50 years Dr. Ozguc, a professor of archaeology and former dean and rector at Ankara University, led the excavation of Kultepe, the ancient Kanesh, near today's Kayseri. Situated on an ancient trade route, Kanesh flourished as the principal known settlement of Assyrian merchants among the Indo-European peoples of central Anatolia, who eventually united into the powerful Hittite empire.
        Kanesh drew notice in 1881 when cuneiform clay tablets that were later traced to the city showed up on the antiquities market. A Czech team started digging around it but soon abandoned the site. It was Dr. Ozguc, joined by his wife and colleague, Prof. Nimet Ozguc, who began its excavation in earnest in 1948 under the auspices of the Turkish Historical Society.
        Within a few years, the Ozgucs could report the salvaging of thousands of tablets from the houses and workshops of the karum, or trading district. They showed that around 2000 B.C., local Anatolian chiefs welcomed the traders from Assur in northern Mesopotamia who established their businesses and trading posts in the new land.
        They brought with them textiles, tin and manufactured goods and traded them for the silver of Anatolian mines, which they sent back to Assur by often risky horse and donkey caravans. The tablets recording such trades documented the highly developed commerce as well as the lives of the Assyrian merchants.
        Tahsin Ozguc, often referred to as the dean of Anatolian archaeology and the man who inspired generations of scholars of ancient Turkey, was born in Kircaali, now Kurdzhali, in Bulgaria. He entered Ankara University in 1935, shortly after its founding by Kemal Mustafa Ataturk, and received a Ph.D. in 1942. He studied with foreign professors engaged by Ataturk, like H. H. von der Osten, Benno Landsberger and Hans Gustav Güterbock, joined the faculty in 1946 and was appointed a professor in 1954.
        He briefly served as dean of the Faculty of Literature in the late 1960's and then was the president of Ankara University from 1969 to 1980. Over the years he was a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and the University of Munich and lectured at other universities in Europe, Japan and the United States. While the excavations at Kultepe occupied him most of his professional life, he also had a major part in nearly a dozen other Anatolian digs, notably at the ancient sites of Altintepe, Horoztepe and Masathoyuk.
        He is survived by his wife, who is also a noted archaeologist; their son, Prof. Bulent Ozguc of Bilkent University in Ankara; and a grandson.
      