
        Cornell H. Mayer, a pioneer in radio astronomy who found the first signs of searingly hot temperatures on the surface of Venus, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 83.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Carey Whitehead Mayer.
        After advances in radar during World War II, scientists started building large metal dishes in the 1950's to listen to the universe. Mr. Mayer used a 50-foot radio telescope on top of a building at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington and pointed it at Earth's neighboring planets.
        Astronomers knew little about Venus, which is enshrouded in thick clouds, but they imagined that below the clouds there could be a wet and Earth-like environment. Mr. Mayer, however, found the microwave radiation emanating from Venus to be very bright.
        ''The signal was too strong to be from an Earth-like planet,'' said Kenneth J. Johnston, scientific director of the United States Naval Observatory, who worked for Mr. Mayer in postdoctoral research 35 years ago.
        Instead, the brightness of the Venus measurements, published in 1958, corresponded to a temperature of 600 degrees.
        ''It was very, very hot,'' Dr. Johnston said. ''That was a big discovery in those days. That was before we had any planetary probes.''
        Similar measurements of Mars and Jupiter found temperatures that fit with what astronomers expected, suggesting that Mr. Mayer's technique was sound.
        Cornell Mayer was born in Ossian, Iowa, and graduated from the University of Iowa in 1943. He served in the wartime Navy and then received a master's degree in electrical engineering at the University of Maryland in 1951.
        After his early Venus discovery, Mr. Mayer developed detectors of increased sensitivity for use on radio telescopes, allowing him to measure temperatures of planets. A few years afterward, he collaborated with Charles H. Townes, a professor of physics at Columbia who later shared a Nobel Prize for development of a ''maser,'' a forerunner of the laser. Mr. Mayer installed a maser on his radio telescope, allowing measurements that were more sensitive still.
        ''That was the first time a maser was used in a practical way,'' Dr. Johnston said.
        Mr. Mayer retired in 1980 from the Naval Research Laboratory, where he had headed the radio astronomy branch.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Carolyn Elizabeth Mayer of Alexandria.
      