
        George Herman, a CBS correspondent for 43 years and the moderator of the network's ''Face the Nation'' program for nearly 15 years, died yesterday in Washington. He was 85.
        His wife, Patricia, said he died after suffering in recent years from cancer, heart trouble and other ailments.
        CBS said that Mr. Herman was its first correspondent to file sound-and-film reports from abroad. The network said he was also the first reporter to broadcast coverage of the break-in at the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in 1972. He was later CBS's co-anchor of the Senate Watergate hearings.
        During the Korean War, he landed with United Nations troops at Inchon as a combat reporter, and reported on the conflict for three years as CBS's Far East bureau chief. He also reported on the Kennedy White House, and after President Kennedy was assassinated in 1963, Mr. Herman stood in front of the White House for 20 hours, much of the time in a driving rain.
        As moderator of ''Face the Nation'' from 1969 to 1983, Mr. Herman interviewed hundreds of politicians and celebrities, including Ayatollah Khomeini of Iran and Muhammad Ali.
        George Edward Herman was born in Manhattan on Jan. 14, 1920. He graduated from the Horace Mann School and Dartmouth, where he majored in mathematics and won a prize for creative writing. After graduating from the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia, hegot a newswriting job in 1942 at WQXR, the classical radio station in Manhattan.
        Two years later, in 1944, Mr. Herman began at CBS as a radio news writer and was promoted to night editor. His first appearance on the air came when he interrupted a musical broadcast to announce Japan's surrender in World War II, and then to ad lib for 20 minutes until a senior correspondent arrived.
        In 1948, he found himself on television at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, using a slide rule to analyze caucus results to estimate Harry S. Truman's chances of winning his party's nomination.
        In 1949, Mr. Herman got a leave of absence from CBS to travel in Asia with a camera and a tape recorder. He became the first person to send CBS sound and television reports from abroad. This led to his assignment to cover the Korean War.
        After that war, he was assigned to cover the White House of Dwight D. Eisenhower. He met Patricia Kerwin, who worked in the press office, and they were married in 1955.
        In addition to her, Mr. Herman is survived by his sons Charles, of Glenview, Ill.; Scott, of Bethesda, Md.; and Douglas, of Baltimore, and six grandchildren.
        When Mr. Herman was laid off by CBS in a cost-cutting move in 1986, the network offered him a chance to resign. Always a strong union leader, he replied, ''Put me down as one of the fired,'' The Washington Post reported.
      