
        David Patterson, a scholar of Jewish life in Europe who established a center for Hebrew and Jewish studies at Oxford University to help revive a discipline that had been virtually destroyed during the Holocaust, died at a hospital in Oxford on Dec. 10. He was 83.
        The cause was prostate cancer, according to Jackie Finlay, his personal assistant.
        Dr. Patterson, an expert in the Hebrew literature of Europe, envisioned the center shortly after joining Oxford's faculty in 1956. Part of his motivation was to create a setting where scholars could take advantage of Oxford's rich collection of Hebrew books and manuscripts. Another and more important reason was to fill a void left by the Holocaust.
        ''By the end of the Second World War in 1945, Jewish studies in Europe had ceased to exist,'' he wrote in a history of the center. ''The great chain of Jewish and traditional learning, as well as the flowering of modern Jewish studies in the 19th and early 20th centuries, had utterly vanished.''
        The center, he believed, could serve as a modest substitute for the network of Jewish schools, libraries, theaters, museums and synagogues that had been destroyed, and could help preserve historic Hebrew books and materials that had survived.
        Dr. Patterson established the center in 1972, without financial assistance from the university. It remains self-supporting and today offers a graduate degree program, houses a collection of manuscripts, holds conferences, brings scholars to Oxford and has a writer-in-residence program whose participants have included the Israeli writers Aharon Appelfeld, Amos Oz and A. B. Yehoshua. It has also inspired similar centers at the universities of Cambridge, Leeds and Manchester.
        Dr. Patterson's contributions to Jewish studies were recognized by Queen Elizabeth II in 2003, when she named him a Commander of the British Empire.
        David Patterson was born in Liverpool in 1922 to parents who were part of the Jewish migration from Eastern Europe to England in the last quarter of the 19th century. After working as a draftsman in gun and warplane factories during World War II, he entered Manchester University, where he became interested in modern Hebrew literature and graduated with a degree in Semitic languages in 1949.
        Two years later, he moved to Israel with his new wife, José, first living on a kibbutz near the Syrian border, then in Haifa and Jerusalem. They returned to England in 1953, the year that he earned his M.A. from Manchester. He received his Ph.D. from the same university in 1963.
        Dr. Patterson, who wrote extensively about Hebrew novels, especially those written in czarist Russia, spent significant portions of his career as a visiting professor in the United States. He taught at Cornell, Northwestern, Hebrew Union College, Mount Holyoke, Smith and Hampshire College. He retired from Oxford's faculty in 1989 and as president of the Oxford Center for Hebrew and Jewish Studies in 1992.
        Survivors include his wife, José, as well as four children and seven grandchildren.
      