
        Norman Vaughan, a legendary Alaskan explorer and dog sled racer, and the last surviving member of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's expedition to Antarctica in 1928-30, died Friday at a hospital in Anchorage. He was 100.
        The death was confirmed by the Providence Alaska Medical Center.
        To mark his 89th birthday, in 1994, Mr. Vaughan climbed an icy 10,302-feet peak about 250 miles short of the South Pole that Byrd had named Mount Vaughan in his honor. His wife, Carolyn Muegge-Vaughan, who was 52 at the time, accompanied him on the eight-day climb.
        Filmed by a cameraman-producer from the National Geographic ''Explorer'' series, Larry Engel, his exploit became the focus of a documentary, ''Height of Courage,'' first shown in 1995. It was a feat Mr. Vaughan had had in mind for 66 years; a first attempt a year earlier ended with a supply-plane crash and the loss of four of his dogs.
        In Alaska, his adopted home state, he was known as the Colonel and was celebrated for having completed the Iditarod, the punishing annual dog sled race, 13 times despite injuries that would have daunted far younger contestants. He had made his debut on that 1,160-mile trans-Alaska run in 1976, when he was almost a septuagenarian.
        In 1997, at age 92, he founded what became the 800-mile Norman Vaughan Serum Run 25, a memorial to the winter of 1925, when diphtheria struck the town of Nome. Relay teams of mushers raced nonstop from Nenana in central Alaska to Nome on the Seward Peninsula with the serum that fought the deadly outbreak.
        Norman Dane Vaughan had his moment in the national limelight when he joined Byrd, then a celebrated aviator, for his first ground incursion into terra incognita, the forbidding polar region known as the Ross Ice Shelf. He had grown up comfortably in Boston, a graduate of Milton Academy and a student at Harvard who was intrigued by books about the outdoors that covered, among other subjects, dog sleds.
        He dropped out of college and, at 19, worked with a mission tending indigenous people in Labrador and Newfoundland, becoming a dog sled leader himself. Three years later, in 1928, he put that experience to use when, alerted by a headline -- ''Byrd to the South Pole'' -- he got himself a spot on the admiral's team.
        Byrd took him on as a dog driver, to train the animals and accompany him by dog sled over the Ross Ice Shelf to find a place for his base camp, Little America. Mr. Vaughan then helped in sledding hundreds of tons of supplies from ship to camp and transporting team members over hundreds of miles of frozen wilderness in search of specimens for their research.
        Mr. Vaughan later worked as an advertising executive, a snowmobile dealer, a ski instructor and a sled-dog trainer and racer in Alaska, where he became a celebrity and was inducted into the Mushers Hall of Fame upon completion of his final Iditarod run at 84. In World War II, he was a search and rescue specialist for the Army Air Forces.
        Mr. Vaughan was married four times. Besides his wife, Carolyn, he is survived by a son, Jerry; a daughter, Jackie Lee; a sister, Janice Snow; 5 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Vaughan told of his adventures in two books, ''With Byrd at the Bottom of the World: The South Pole Expedition of 1928-1930'' (Stackpole Books, 1990), written with Cecil B. Murphey; and ''My Life of Adventure'' (Stackpole, 1995), with Mr. Murphey as well.
        ''I put foot on rock that had never been seen or touched before by humans,'' he told The New York Times Magazine in 1999. ''We went into mountains beyond the curvature of earth, into land where nobody else had been. When we got home, Admiral Byrd named a mountain in the Antarctic after me. I told him that one day I would go back to climb it, and he said, 'Norman, I think you will.' ''
      