
        Dr. Charles W. Socarides, a well-known psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who maintained publicly, long after it was considered scientifically acceptable to do so, that homosexuality was a condition amenable to treatment and even to conversion to heterosexuality, died on Sunday at Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his wife, Claire Alford Socarides, said.
        Dr. Socarides (pronounced sock-uh-REE-dees) was a clinical professor of psychiatry for many years at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, where he retired in 1996.
        A frequent guest on television talk shows and news programs, Dr. Socarides wrote a half-dozen books about homosexuality. They included ''The Overt Homosexual'' (Grune & Stratton, 1968) and ''Homosexuality: A Freedom Too Far -- A Psychoanalyst Answers 1,000 Questions About Causes and Cure and the Impact of the Gay Rights Movement on American Society'' (Adam Margrave Books, 1995).
        In 1992, Dr. Socarides helped found the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality. The primary mission of the organization, of which he was a past president, is ''to make effective psychological therapy available to all homosexual men and women who seek change,'' according to its Web site.
        In his writings, public appearances and private practice, Dr. Socarides argued that homosexuality was a ''neurotic adaptation'' that in men stemmed from absent fathers and overly doting mothers. In ''Homosexuality: A Freedom Too Far,'' he estimated that he had helped 35 percent of his gay patients to ''become heterosexual'' and a slightly smaller percentage to control their gay impulses.
        ''I hope that with my work I've delivered some from a mysterious malady over which they felt they had no control, which felt like an instinctual urge that they could not deny or understand, at the same time fighting against it mightily,'' Dr. Socarides said in a 1995 interview in The New York Times. ''I would help them make the fight.''
        Dr. Socarides maintained his position long after the American Psychiatric Association rescinded its definition of homosexuality as a form of mental illness in 1973, a watershed moment for the profession. He maintained his position, too, despite the fact that one of his children is openly gay and was a nationally prominent gay-rights advocate.
        Charles William Socarides was born in Brockton, Mass., on Jan. 24, 1922. He received an undergraduate degree from Harvard in 1945 and an M.D. from New York Medical College in 1947.
        Though Dr. Socarides's ideas are still embraced by some conservatives, they have met with increasing disfavor in recent decades.
        ''Socarides outlived his time,'' Gilbert Herdt, an anthropologist who is the director of the National Sexuality Resource Center in San Francisco, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''He became a kind of anachronism, and a tragic one in the sense that he continued to inflict suffering on the lives of some gay and lesbian individuals and the L.G.B.T. community in general.''
        Dr. Socarides's first three marriages, to Veronica Rak, Nan Bennett and Barbara Bonner, ended in divorce. Besides his wife Claire, whom he married in 1988, he is survived by a sister, Helen Socarides Covett, of Brockton; four children, all of Manhattan: Richard, a son from his first marriage, who was an adviser to the Clinton White House on gay and lesbian issues; Alexandra and Charles Jr., from his marriage to Ms. Bonner; and Jacqueline, from his fourth marriage; and one grandchild. A daughter from Dr. Socarides's first marriage, Daphne Socarides Stolorow, a clinical psychologist, died in 1991.
        In an interview yesterday, Richard Socarides said that he and his father managed to sustain a relationship, in part because both men refrained from discussing their work. ''It was complex,'' he said. ''We tried to relate to each other as father and son.''
      