
        John H. Herz, a scholar of international relations and law and a professor emeritus of government at City College, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97.
        The death was announced by Thomas G. Karis, a friend and colleague.
        Dr. Herz focused his studies and writings on the relationships between contemporary politics and its worldwide challenges, including population pressures, the exhaustion of natural resources, environmental destruction and possible nuclear annihilation. He sought to analyze, as he put it in an interview with Contemporary Authors several years ago, ''what changes in attitude patterns and political action are required to solve the global problems in ways under which mankind can survive.''
        John Hermann Herz was born in Düsseldorf, Germany, in 1908 and received a Ph.D. from the University of Cologne in 1931. He also studied at the Universities of Freiburg, Heidelberg and Berlin and received a diploma from the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva in 1938, just before coming to the United States.
        He worked at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., from 1939 until 1941. Unable to find a faculty position at a large university, he joined other young refugee scholars who found havens at traditionally black colleges. Ralph Bunche, then chairman of political science at Howard University, secured him his first teaching job there as an instructor in government in 1941.
        In World War II, the United States Office of Strategic Services employed Dr. Herz as a political analyst, and he did the same work for the State Department from 1945 to 1948, returning to Howard as a professor of political science in 1948.
        He joined City College in 1952, and reached emeritus status in 1977. Over the years he also taught as a visiting professor at Columbia and the New School for Social Research and was a consultant for the RAND Corporation.
        Dr. Herz's wife, Anne Klein Herz, died in 2003 after 62 years of marriage. He is survived by a son, Stephen O., of Thun, Switzerland, and a sister, Lore Kingsley, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.
      