
        William W. Howells, a leading physical anthropologist who focused on the origins of humans and the evolution of races, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Kittery Point, Me. He was 97.
        The death was announced by his family.
        Professor Howells, emeritus professor of anthropology at Harvard, made perhaps his most important contribution to the field through his statistical analyses of the physical variations among today's humans. His conclusion, based on skull measurements, was that modern humans are of one species, with little to tell them apart.
        He made a lasting contribution to anthropology in the mid-1960's when discord and controversy clouded the debate of racial issues. With his wife, Muriel, as his assistant, Professor Howells undertook a pioneering study of measurements taken from thousands of skulls at dozens of sites in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Pacific.
        His data came from specimens representing local populations of unusual homogeneity, and his analysis of the measurements he collected indicated to him that the variations within these groups far exceeded the variations distinguishing group from group. The evidence from his research bolstered the proposition that all modern humans are of one homogeneous species, whereas earlier humans, even very recent relatives like the Neanderthals, differed from them as distinctly alien species.
        Later methods, like analysis of DNA, further buttressed that finding. In fact, anthropologists still use the raw data of his skull measurements, along with other techniques, in studying relationships among various ethnic groupings.
        Professor Howells also had a moderating effect on the often contentious argument over the origins of modern humans. One school upholds what is called the multiregional evolution of humans, essentially evolving in separate regions of earth, with some interconnections, after an initial worldwide migration out of Africa two million years ago. The other theory, known as Noah's Ark or the out-of-Africa hypothesis, postulates several migrations from Africa, the latest of them by modern humans who then supplanted all those earlier ones less than 100,000 years ago.
        Professor Howells tended toward the Noah's Ark theory. But his many writings on the subject provided one of the more even-handed approaches to the relative merits and shortcomings of either explanation.
        William White Howells was born in Manhattan on Nov. 27, 1908. His father was the architect John Mead Howells, and his grandfathers were Horace White, the journalist, and William Dean Howells, the novelist and literary critic. He attended St. Paul's School and graduated from Harvard in 1930. He went on to study anthropology there under Earnest Albert Hooten and received his Ph.D. in physical anthropology in 1934. His dissertation was titled ''The Peopling of Melanesia as Indicated by Cranial Evidence from the Bismarck Archipelago.''
        He then worked as a researcher at the American Museum of Natural History until 1939, when he accepted an assistant professorship at the University of Wisconsin. Commissioned a lieutenant in the Navy in 1943, he was assigned to naval intelligence in Washington and served until the end of the war, when he returned to Wisconsin as an associate professor. He became a full professor by 1948.
        Professor Hooten, who had built Harvard into a center of physical anthropology in this country, died in 1954, and Harvard invited Professor Howells to succeed him as professor of anthropology. He took emeritus status in 1974.
        While still in the Navy, in 1944, he published his first successful book, ''Mankind So Far'' (Doubleday). Later titles included ''Back of History: The Story of Our Own Origins'' (Doubleday; 1954, rev. ed. 1963); ''Mankind in the Making'' (Doubleday; 1959, rev. ed. 1967); ''Evolution of the Genus Homo'' (Addison-Wesley, 1973); ''Cranial Variation in Man: A Study by Multivariate Analysis'' (Harvard University Press, 1973); and, more recently, ''Who's Who in Skulls: Ethnic Identification of Crania from Measurements'' (Peabody Museum, 1995). His ''Getting Here: The Story of Human Evolution,'' written for the general reader, was published in an updated version by Compass Press in 1997, when he was 89.
        He was on the first team of American paleoanthropologists to visit China in 1975 and was co-editor of their report, issued in 1977.
        Professor Howells's wife, Muriel Gurdon Seabury, died in 2002 after 73 years of marriage. He is survived by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of Manhattan; a son, William Dean Howells of Washington; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      