
        Msgr. Frederick R. McManus, a retired dean of canon law at Catholic University of America who helped draft revisions to the Roman Catholic liturgy at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960's, died Nov. 27 in Boston. He was 82 and lived at the Boston archdiocesan retirement home, Regina Cleri.
        His death was announced by the Archdiocese of Boston.
        Monsignor McManus, who wrote extensively on liturgy and canon law and taught generations of church lawyers, served as peritus, or expert, to the American bishops who attended the council from 1962 to 1965. For his assistance with the draft of the Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy he was given the honor of celebrating the first official English-language Mass in the United States, in St. Louis in 1964.
        He contributed to the revision of the church's Code of Canon Law in 1983 and was an organizer of the International Commission on English in the Liturgy, for which he worked into the late 1990's. He also worked with the United States bishops' Committee on the Liturgy. And he was a representative of the Catholic Church in the ecumenical dialogues opened by Pope John Paul II with the Anglican and Eastern Orthodox Churches.
        Frederick Richard McManus was born in Lynn, Mass., and graduated from St. John's Seminary in Brighton, Mass., in 1947, when he was ordained a priest. He received his doctor of canon law degree at Catholic University in 1954 and, after three years on the faculty at St. John's, taught at Catholic University as a professor of canon law from 1958 to 1993.
        Besides being dean of canon law, he was vice provost and dean for graduate studies from 1974 to 1983 and academic vice president in the mid-1980's. Starting in 1959, he edited the university's canon law journal, The Jurist, for more than 30 years.
        Monsignor McManus wrote seven books. He was also an associate editor of Worship, a review concerned with liturgical renewal, and a member of the editorial board of Studia Liturgica, an international ecumenical quarterly for liturgical research.
        He left no immediate survivors.
      