
        Howard B. Gotlieb, a Boston University archivist who cajoled, charmed, wheedled and -- most effectively, he said -- groveled to snare the papers of notables like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Bette Davis, not to mention Fred Astaire's dancing shoes, died Thursday at a Boston hospital. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of surgery, the university said.
        Over four decades, Dr. Gotlieb gathered papers and artifacts from more than 2,000 American and European individuals; they occupy seven miles of shelves at what in 2003 was named the Howard Gotlieb Archival Research Center.
        His own exuberant public personality was matched by the blithe eclecticism of his finds, which included Groucho Marx's jokes, George Bernard Shaw's scribbled instructions and John Barrymore on how to play Hamlet.
        The Library Journal in 2003 said, ''Since Gotlieb began his work, most college and university special collections have followed his lead.''
        Other major archives of popular culture include the University of Texas; the University of California, Los Angeles; and Stanford. But these collections, while perhaps larger, are not so famously the product of a single archivist's ingenuity, perseverance and idiosyncrasy.
        Dr. Gottlieb stopped at virtually nothing to capture his prey. He wrote letters of protest to critics of writers or performers whom he was pursuing. He sent flowers and other gifts to potential donors, including a bed for James Mason. He told prospective donors that he was certain they would win a Nobel Prize.
        About once a year he held parties for donors and potential donors in four different cities, New York (perhaps in the Rose Room of the Plaza Hotel); Palm Beach, Fla. (the Gold Room of the Breakers), Los Angeles or San Francisco and London (Claridge's).
        In an interview last week, Thomas F. Staley, director of the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas, mentioned Dr. Gotlieb's personal charm and early recognition of the importance of collecting popular culture. He called Dr. Gotlieb ''a substantial figure in the world of archives, particularly in the area of celebrity archives.''
        Dr. Gotlieb realized when he arrived at Boston University from Yale in 1963 that he was unlikely to capture the valuable books, papers and manuscripts of famous authors, particularly with what at first were glaringly meager resources. His idea was that he himself would choose living writers and public figures, some almost unknown when he identified them, and persuade them to donate papers and possessions before they were discarded or dispersed.
        He necessarily ended up with more than a few near-nonentities, but as a result of his early-bird technique, Dr. King agreed to donate important papers before he had marched to Selma. David Halberstam had not yet written a book when Dr. Gotlieb guessed his potential and signed him up, and James Clavell had written one. Dan Rather was a 32-year-old reporter who at first answered that he had no papers. He ended up sending hundreds of boxes, one a month for many years.
        Dr. Gotlieb was also a pioneer in rounding up the tantalizing ephemera of popular culture before it became so sought after. One prize was is Peter Benchley's notes for a book he first titled ''Great White'' but later changed to ''Jaws.'' Mr. Gotlieb eagerly grabbed even the laundry slips of movie stars.
        He soon had plenty of company. The University of Wyoming has the papers of Jack Benny, the University of Miami has Jackie Gleason's occult collection and Indiana University has the papers of Orson Welles.
        Howard Bernard Gotlieb, who left no immediate survivors, was born in Bangor, Me., on Oct. 24, 1926, and collected stamps as a child. He discovered archival work as a member of the Army Signal Corps in postwar Germany, where his job was gathering the papers of Nazi officials.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in history from George Washington University, a master's in history from Columbia and a doctorate in international relations from Oxford. After working for several years as a foreign correspondent for a small press agency in Europe, Dr. Gotlieb was hired by Yale as a teaching associate in history and as an archivist of historical manuscripts.
        He eventually had a staff of nearly two dozen, but he personally hunted his most desired quarry. He pursued Bette Davis for a decade, visiting her repeatedly in her homes in Westport, Conn., and West Hollywood, Calif. She sent people to look him over again and again.
        ''She finally called one day and said: 'I can't stand it anymore. You may have them,' '' Dr. Gotlieb said in 2000 in an interview with The New York Times.
        Gloria Swanson broke his heart. For years, he pursued her, staying at her Park Avenue apartment for as much as week at a time. He abstained from drinking and smoking, and choked down her macrobiotic foods. But Miss Swanson chose Texas.
        ''They loved me more than you did,'' she explained. ''They bought them.''
      