
        Victor Castelli, a soloist with the New York City Ballet, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center; he was 52.
        His death was announced by Siobhan Burns, the company's associate director of communications, who said the cause was pneumonia. Mr. Castelli received a diagnosis of cancer in October 2004.
        A versatile dancer with great stage presence as well as a ballet master, Mr. Castelli could be both classically elegant and comically playful in many works by George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins.
        One of his most memorable roles was that of the soloist in the ''Gigue'' episode of Balanchine's ''Mozartiana'' of 1981. Although Balanchine devised this perky 18th-century dance especially for Mr. Castelli, injury prevented him from performing it at its premiere, when he was replaced by Christopher d'Amboise. After Mr. Castelli took over the part the next year, Anna Kisselgoff praised him in The New York Times for ''superbly stressing the rococo flourishes'' of the choreography. Two years later she wrote that ''Victor Castelli's sparkling dancing in the 'Gigue' is subtle virtuosity -- a dancer constantly on the move as the dynamics shift surprisingly.''
        The New York City Ballet dedicated its Tuesday-night performance of ''Mozartiana'' to Mr. Castelli and will honor him again when the ballet is repeated Sunday afternoon.
        A native of Montclair, N.J., Mr. Castelli received his early training with teachers there and in New York City at the School of American Ballet. He joined City Ballet in 1971, retiring as a performer in 1990 and serving afterward on the company's staff as a ballet master.
        He created roles in the premieres of several works by Balanchine, including ''PAMTGG'' (1971), a ballet about an airport; ''Gaspard de la Nuit'' (1975), a macabre fantasy in which he portrayed a man obsessed by a piece of black glass that he carried; and ''Union Jack'' (1976), in which he was cast as a member of Britain's Royal Navy.
        Among his roles in the standard Balanchine repertory were the title character in ''Prodigal Son,'' the Poet in ''La Sonnambula'' and the quivering Sigh in ''Variations Pour une Porte et un Soupir.'' He also performed a major role in Robbins's ''Dances at a Gathering'' and was the hero in Robbins's ''Watermill.''
        As a ballet master for City Ballet, he rehearsed many works by Balanchine and Robbins and staged productions for companies around the country. He also served on the advisory committee for the Robbins Rights Trust, which safeguards the choreographer's repertory.
        He is survived by his mother, Vilma Castelli, of Little Falls, N.J.; a brother, Bruce Castelli; and a sister, Linda Castelli.
      