
        Howard Ernest Gruber, a scholar of cognitive psychology who was noted for his books on the development of Darwin's thinking on evolution, died on Jan. 25 in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        He died in a nursing home of pneumonia after a long illness, said Doris Wallace, a collaborator and his wife of 18 years.
        Dr. Gruber was a lifelong student of cognition, the process that weaves strands of memory, perception and judgment into coherent thought. He was most widely known for his study of Darwin's thinking as he processed his glimpses of natural selection into the theory of evolution, which was completed and published decades later.
        Dr. Gruber also studied the thinking of one of his mentors, the Swiss developmental psychologist Jean Piaget, and interpreted his work for Americans working in the field.
        From 1967 to 1986, Dr. Gruber taught at Rutgers University, where he was the founding director of the Institute of Cognitive Studies. He also held the Piaget Chair at the University of Geneva and most recently, until 200o, was an adjunct professor at Columbia's Teachers College.
        Dr. Gruber wrote ''Darwin on Man: An Introduction to Scientific Creativity'' (1974, 2nd ed. 1981), which included Darwin's previously unpublished ''transmutation notebooks'' of 1837-39, transcribed and annotated by Paul H. Barrett. He followed that up with ''Evolution of the Mind: The Early Writings of Charles Darwin'' (1980).
        Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard paleontologist, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1974 that ''Darwin on Man'' had ''sealed the coffin'' on the detractors who belittled Darwin as a thinker. Instead, Dr. Gould wrote, it demonstrated that Darwin, at 29, ''recorded his early conviction of evolutionary continuity.''
        ''Darwin on Man,'' with the annotated notebooks, showed that ''Charles Darwin was reconstructing the world and he knew exactly what he was doing,'' Dr. Gould said.
        He described Dr. Gruber's ''unconventional biography'' of Darwin as ''a psychological study of scientific creativity.'' Dr. Gruber rejected the ''eureka'' notion, that great theories arrive in flashes of insight, and instead he presented ''a gradualistic view of creativity,'' Dr. Gould said.
        Dr. Gruber often visited Geneva to observe Piaget's work on developmental phenomena. (Among Piaget's insights was his identification of object constancy as the stage at which a child grasps, as a fact, that a ball rolling under the bed, or a mother leaving the room, continues to exist out of sight.)
        Dr. Gruber, with J. Jacques Vonèche, organized and edited a comprehensive volume devoted to such observations, ''The Essential Piaget,'' published by Basic Books in 1977 with a foreword by Piaget.
        Howard Ernest Gruber was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1943 and received his Ph.D. in psychology at Cornell in 1950. He started his academic career that year as an assistant professor of psychology at Queen's University at Kingston, Ontario. He also taught at the University of Colorado and, in the 1960's, at the New School for Social Research, where he rose to professor and department chairman at the Graduate School.
        In 1967, he moved to Rutgers, where the cognitive institute he founded there was eventually blended into what has become the Rutgers Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience. Beginning in 1983, he held a chair at the University of Geneva , later returning to New York as a visiting professor in the department of developmental education at Teachers College.
        Over the years he also taught at Cornell and M.I.T.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Gruber is survived by a son and daughter by a previous marriage to the former Valmai Lewis, Simon L. and Sarah V. Gruber, both of Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      