
        Dr. Jeremy Swan, a cardiologist and medical innovator who developed a revolutionary catheter to measure blood flow and heart functions, died last Monday in Los Angeles. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        The catheter, known as the Swan-Ganz and created with Dr. William Ganz, is inserted through a vein in the neck, shoulder or groin and fed into the right side of the heart. A balloon at the device's tip allows it to be carried along by blood flow.
        When in place, the balloon deflates and the catheter rests in the pulmonary artery, where it can measure the effects of a heart attack and a patient's response to medication, among other factors. The device is also used in heart surgery. Before the introduction of the Swan-Ganz catheter in 1970, patients had to be catheterized in special surroundings, with X-ray images to guide the placement, and not at the bedside.
        Dr. Jeffrey W. Moses, director of the Center for Interventional Vascular Therapy at Columbia University Medical Center, said the catheter remained ''a mainstay of therapy for virtually every cardiac patient.''
        Dr. Moses added: ''Before Swan-Ganz, there was no way to monitor patients continuously through their illness. He became a verb in the hospital: 'to Swan' a patient.''
        Harold James Charles Swan was born in County Sligo, Ireland, and was known as Jeremy from an early age. He studied at St. Thomas's Hospital in London and earned a medical degree and doctorate from the University of London.
        In 1951, he joined the Mayo Clinic as a research associate and later directed the clinic's cardiology laboratory and studied the physiology of congenital heart disease. He was an associate professor of physiology at the University of Minnesota from 1960 to 1965, when he moved to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
        Until 1987, he was the director of the cardiology division there.
        Dr. Swan also was a professor of medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, for three decades before taking emeritus status in 1996. He was named president of the American College of Cardiology in 1973. He was an associate editor of the journal Cardiology.
        Dr. Swan is survived by his wife of 32 years, Roma. The couple lived in Beverly Hills before moving to Pasadena a decade ago. He became an American citizen in 1956.
        Dr. Swan is also survived by six children from a previous marriage: two sons, Jeremy C., of Los Angeles, and Gordon, of Beverly Hills; and four daughters, Caroline Swan of Los Angeles, Elizabeth Condit of Gainesville, Fla., Geraldine Swan of Redondo Beach, Calif., and Eleanor Donohue of Bend, Ore. Survivors also include 11 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      