
        Gerald P. Culkin, a retired New York City judge whose celebrated cases included the "capeman" murderer, Clifford Irving's fake Howard Hughes autobiography and Andy Warhol's shooting, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        In his 28 years in both city and state courts, Justice Culkin at times was himself the center of controversy. He became a state Supreme Court judge in the 1960's and retired in 1976.
        In 1960 he pronounced death sentences on two murderers: Salvador Agron, 17, known as "the capeman" for his cape, and Luis A. Hernandez, 18, known as "the umbrella man" for wielding an umbrella as a weapon.
        But in 1962 the judge joined prosecutors in appealing to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to commute Mr. Agron's sentence to life imprisonment, which the Governor did. The judge cited Mr. Agron's history of mental deficiency.
        Another sensational case was the 1965 trial of Mark Fein, a Park Avenue executive, convicted with a prostitute's testimony in the killing of his bookmaker. Presided Over Warhol Case
        Justice Culkin accepted the 1973 guilty plea of Ted Gross, Mayor John V. Lindsay's Youth Services Commissioner, for bribery. In 1976 he took the guilty plea of Edward M. Gilbert, a onetime Wall Street wonder who fled to Brazil after embezzling $2 million. He also presided over Valerie Solanas's guilty plea in 1969 in the shooting of the artist Andy Warhol.
        He threw out the indictment of Borough President Hulan E. Jack of Manhattan in 1960 on illegal gratuities charges. After the indictment was reinstated by a higher court, the trial ended in a hung jury. Mr. Jack resigned to avoid a second trial.
        In 1965, the judge ordered Governor Rockefeller and the Legislature to redraw legislative district lines to meet the United States Supreme Court's one-person one-vote edict. His threat to impose court-drawn lines was credited with pressuring the officials to act.
        In 1972 Justice Culkin temporarily barred sales of Mr. Irving's book when Mr. Hughes's lawyers contended that it was bogus. Later the judge barred Time magazine from printing excerpts, but that was overturned.
        In the proceedings, the judge requested and obtained an affidavit from the reclusive Mr. Hughes denying any role in the book. Eventually it was proven to be a hoax. Allowed Blue Cross Increase
        Also in 1972, Justice Culkin jailed Edwin A. Goodman, the general manager of WBAI radio, for refusing to give the District Attorney tapes of broadcasts of uprisings in a city jail. Amid appeals, Mr. Goodman was freed and said the tapes no longer existed. Eventually the District Attorney dropped the case.
        In 1963, his ruling cleared the way for an unpopular one-third rise in Blue Cross rates, which he said was necessary to avert "inevitable disaster."
        Several times the judge was the focus of criticism. District Attorney Frank S. Hogan denounced some of his rulings, though when state investigators questioned the judge's handling of narcotics cases as improper, Mr. Hogan defended him.
        Justice Culkin was born in Manhattan. His father, Charles, was a Democratic district leader, served as sheriff and was a city light bulb supplier.
        He graduated from Manhattan Colleges and St. John's Law School. During World War II he served as a sergeant in Army counterintelligence.
        Surviving are his wife of 60 years, the former Dorothy Helmer, and a sister, Mary Culkin O'Brien of Connecticut.
      