
        Hyman Rosenblatt, a retired detective who led New York State's investigation of the 1957 organized-crime summit meeting at Appalachin, died on Tuesday at Staten Island University Hospital. He was 85 and lived on Staten Island.
        He died of lung cancer and heart ailments, his family said.
        Mr. Rosenblatt headed the State Department of Investigation's inquiry into the mob leaders' upstate conference in which regional mob leaders discussed organized-crime activities. That inquiry was pivotal in proving the extent of organized crime in America.
        Most of his career was with the New York City Police Department, which he joined in 1934 as one of its few Jewish officers. After he helped catch Charles (Lucky) Luciano in a prostitution case, Mr. Rosenblatt won an early promotion to detective by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1936. An Award for Bravery
        The next year he won the department's Honor Legion Award for bravery and was promoted to an elite detective squad recruited by Thomas E. Dewey, then a special state prosecutor of rackets. Mr. Rosenblatt continued working for Mr. Dewey after he became the Manhattan District Attorney.
        After Mr. Dewey's election as Governor, Mr. Rosenblatt served on District Attorney Frank S. Hogan's detective squad and rose to detective first grade. He became an expert on mobsters, especially Murder Inc., a syndicate of mob assassins, and helped to find and arrest Louis (Lepke) Buchalter.
        Mr. Rosenblatt joined the State Investigation Department in 1954. In 1958, he became a private investigator for lawyers and corporations and continued that work until his retirement in 1987 at 79.
        His first two wives, the former Ann Moses and Lisa von Neumann, died before him.
        He is survived by his wife of 13 years, the former Ann Geraczynski; two sons, Lawrence, of Annapolis, Md., and John, of Amityville, L.I.; a sister, Betty Leinwohl of Pittsburgh; a brother, Milton, of Overland Park, Kan.; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      