
        Fred E. Weick, who was inspired by the boyhood sight of an early airplane to become a pioneering aviation engineer and designer, died on Thursday at a hospital in Vero Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 93.
        The cause was heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Weick's "genius touched virtually every aeronautical discipline" for half a century, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said. He "arguably outstripped any of his peers" in American aviation development, said the agency, whose predecessor employed Mr. Weick.
        His career was devoted to making planes more aerodynamically efficient, safer and easier to fly, thus fostering wider use. Although he focused on small private planes, his advances were adapted to larger aircraft.
        A major innovation was his stable, tricycle-like landing gear, with one set of landing wheels under the airplane's nose and two sets spread out farther back. That became standard for virtually all aircraft, including the space shuttle. Focus on the Unusual
        Like many of his ideas, that concept ran counter to the conventional wisdom. Older designs placed two sets of wheels in front, one under each wing, with the third wheel behind. But any trouble on the front wheels could cause the plane to go out of control. By putting the single wheel in front, he avoided that hazard.
        He also designed the renowned Ercoupe, the first plane certified to be tailspin-proof.
        The Ercoupe, first a two-seater and later a family-sized model, simplified turning by combining the controls for the rudder and the aileron sections of the wings into a single steering device that was easy for amateur pilots to use.
        Much of his work was for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, N.A.S.A.'s predecessor, at Hampton, Va.
        Revolutionizing civil aviation by designing planes with higher speeds and cheaper operations, he developed smooth, curved cowling around radial engines to reduce drag and turbulance and improve cooling. That advance was applied to bombers and fighter planes in World War II.
        Mr. Weick also helped build the first large wind tunnel -- 20 feet in diameter -- for testing full-sized aircraft. An expert on propeller blades, he wrote a book on them that became a classic.
        While teaching aeronautical engineering at Texas A&M University, he designed the AG-1 crop-dusting plane for farmers. Later, working for Piper Aircraft, he designed the Pawnee, an updated model for agriculture, and the family-sized Cherokee as the successor to the Piper Cub.
        Mr. Weick's career was inspired by the rare sight of an overhead plane when he was a boy of about 10 in Berwyn, Ill.
        Soon he began making model boats and planes and even a full-sized automobile, which he finished at 17, before going to the University of Illinois.
        He enjoyed explaining airplane flight, sometimes extending his long arms and big hands like wings and pretending that his swivel chair was a fuselage. Fortune magazine wrote in 1946 that "the effect is at first alarming, especially on banks and turns."
        Mr. Weick was married for 66 years to the former Dorothy Church, who died in 1991. His survivors include a daughter, Elizabeth Weick of Greenbelt, Md.; two sons, Richard F., of London, Canada, and Donald V., of Camden, S.C.; two brothers, Arthur, of Winter Haven, Fla., and George, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., nine grandchildren, 11 great-grandchildren and two great-great-grandchildren.
      