
        James (Son) Thomas, a singer and guitarist who played traditional Mississippi Delta blues spiced with humor and irony, died on June 26 in Greenville, Miss. He was 66 and was a longtime resident of Washington County in western Mississippi.
        The cause was a stroke, the Associated Press reported.
        The New York Times critic Jon Pareles wrote in 1988 that Mr. Thomas's songs were "made of well-chosen, unmatched fragments: a guitar trill, a model vocal line, a syncopated chord, a bleak chuckle."
        "Cobbled together," Mr. Pareles said, "they face down hard times, sexual strife and intimations of mortality."
        Mr. Thomas was born on Oct. 14, 1926, in Eden, a small town in Yazoo County, Miss. He started listening to blues on the radio while working as a field hand. When he began playing the guitar, he was able to pick up songs directly from two older blues guitarists, the Mississippians Elmore Davis and Arthur (Big Boy) Crudup. Known First Through Films
        For some years, Mr. Thomas worked as a gravedigger in Washington County. His first trip away from there was in the late 1960's, when his work began to be more widely known, largely through his appearances in films made by the Center for Southern Folklore.
        But at that time, his usual performing situation was still a country house with a party going on, or an unruly juke joint. In such venues he would get an artful guitar rhythm going and sing out in his robust baritone about women, floods and other down-home subjects.
        As his fame grew, he went on to make recordings in locations as far afield as the Netherlands and France. And by the late 1980's, he was sometimes accompanied by a Swiss-born harmonica-player, Walter Liniger, who worked in the University of Mississippi's blues archive.
        Mr. Thomas was also a folk sculptor, working in clay. His sculpture sometimes took the form of corpses in coffins or of skulls. The subject of death also came up frequently in his blues.
        "Black and white people have to stick together," he liked to say, "because we're all going the same place: down in the clay."
      