
        Martin C. Barell, who served as chancellor of New York State's Board of Regents from 1985 to 1992 and developed new programs amid controversy over education's failures and the effectiveness of his agency, died yesterday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 71.
        He died of heart disease, his family said.
        Among the many issues that arose during Mr. Barell's tenure were debates over multiculturalism, coeducational athletics, urban school financing, the academic freedom to voice racially divisive views and school distribution of condoms to students to help prevent the spread of AIDS.
        Soon after Mr. Barell took over as chancellor, the Regents came under attack from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and several legislators who said the board had failed to address high dropout rates, illiteracy and other education problems. The Governor said he was "incredibly unhappy" with the board, and some called for its abolition. 'Compact for Learning'
        Mr. Barell defended the board's record and vowed redoubled efforts, saying "we will, I'm sure, show results." In 1987 the Regents recruited Dr. Thomas Sobol as the state's new education commissioner and with him formed the 1991 "compact for learning."
        That program is intended to improve education by imposing higher standards for students and giving local schools both more accountability for meeting the goals and more flexibility in the means they used.
        Another innovation under Mr. Barell's tenure was the development of "community renewal schools." Several dozen model schools across the state are now open from early morning through the evening as community centers, with numerous activities and social services for children and adults.
        The Board of Regents, the nation's oldest education agency, founded in 1874, has broad policy powers. It has general supervision over all public and private primary and secondary schools, colleges and universities, museums, libraries, historical societies, archives and vocational rehabilitation agencies. It also licenses and disciplines physicians, architects, engineers, dieticians, social workers, psychologists and members of 31 other professions. Rejection of VouchersgFocus of Broad Powers
        Mr. Barell, elected a Regent by the State Legislature in 1976 at the age of 54, contested William A. Genrich for the chancellor's post in 1980 and lost. After Mr. Barell made amends, Mr. Genrich nominated him for vice chancellor in 1983. He succeeded Mr. Genrich on his retirement.
        Under Mr. Barell's leadership, the Regents allowed girls on previously all-male teams, barred commercially sponsored classroom television programs and rejected a "voucher" proposal that would have allowed public payment of private school tuition. He said the plan would "aid and abet the liquidation of the public school system."
        Mr. Barell helped broaden curriculum to include more about other cultures and the role of minorities. He said: "We ought to tell it like it is, and not gloss everything over."
        But the Regents were embarrassed when Dr. Sobol commissioned a report that turned out to be racially provocative. It was prepared in part by Leonard Jeffries Jr., a City University professor who espouses black superiority. Further controversial remarks by Dr. Jeffries led critics to call on the board to renounce him. Mr. Barell urged it to refrain, saying, "This is not a macho organization. We don't want to stand tall." Active in Civic Affairs
        When the Regents required an AIDS curriculum in 1987, he said, "Every child, regardless of what the community says, ought to have a minimum knowledge of AIDS." But in 1991 he defended the board's refusal to require schools to offer condoms, as recommended by the state AIDS agency.
        In 1989 he assailed New York City's central school board and administration and suggested its dismantling. Later, in a reversal, he praised the initial efforts of the new city Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez.
        Among his civic activities, Mr. Barell was chairman emeritus of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, chairman of the Synagogue Council of America, past president of the Jewish Community Services of Long Island, a member of the National Commission for Unesco and an active Democrat.
        The father of two institutionalized children, he supported organizations to help the handicapped and was a past president of the the Reece School for retarded and disturbed children. Nassau-Suffolk Services for the Autistic opened a school in Levittown, L.I., named for him. Background in Law
        Mr. Barell was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia University and, after serving in the Army in World War II, graduated from Harvard's business and law schools.
        In 1951 he cofounded a Manhattan law firm, Golenbock & Barell, where he specialized in real estate and business law. He was the firm's senior partner when it merged in 1990 with Whitman & Ransom, where he was of counsel.
        His first marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 10 years, the former Phyllis Sotnick; two sons, Allan, of Manhattan, and Steven, of Langhorne, Pa.; four daughters, Deborah Spandorf of Queens, Marian Nelson of Falls Church, Va., Barbara Silpe of Lido Beach, L.I., and Naomi Barell of Jerusalem, Israel; two stepchildren, Lesly Steinman of Glen Head, L.I., and David Sotnick of Brooklyn; a sister, Gladys Barr of Oak Beach, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      