
        Mario Bauza, an instrumentalist and band leader who helped change the sound of American music, died at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lourdes.
        Without Mr. Bauza, a short, garrulous man, American music would be radically different from what it is today. Trained in both Afro-Cuban music and jazz, he helped introduce Latin music to the United States, first deeply influencing jazz, then popular music and later rock-and-roll. As the band leader of Machito and the Afro-Cubans, based at the Palladium, at 53d and Broadway in Manhattan, he helped introduce a series of dance crazes, from the cha-cha to the mambo and the rhumba. And Mr. Bauza stage-managed the arrival of two of the United States's most important musical icons, Ella Fitzgerald, whom he discovered at the Apollo Theater in Harlem and brought to the band leader Chick Webb; and Dizzy Gillespie, whom Mr. Bauza introduced to Cab Calloway.
        Mr. Bauza was as well an irrepressible showman, and until recently he could be found leading his big band through his own particular hybrid of Afro-Cuban music and jazz, telling a soloist to keep going, waving his arms around to get the band excited, or telling his musicians to lower the volume. He sculptured the music on the spot. Joined Chick Webbs's Band
        Mr. Bauza was in a good position to effect the changes that he did. He was born in Havana and first came to New York in 1926, where he was introduced to jazz. He returned to Havana and worked with the Havana Philharmonic, but returned, in the early 1930's, to New York, where he worked with Antonio Machin and Don Azpiazu, important early Cuban composers in the United States. At the same time he was working with Latin musicians, Mr. Bauza joined Chick Webb's band as a trumpeter, and quickly took over the job as orchestra director.
        After leaving Mr. Webb's band in 1938, Mr. Bauza performed with some of the best big bands in jazz, including the orchestras of Don Redman and Fletcher Henderson. But it was with Cab Calloway, whom he joined in 1939, that Mr. Bauza really began to make his mark on American music. He introduced Dizzy Gillespie to the band -- allowing Mr. Bauza and Mr. Gillespie time together to formulate the new Afro-Cuban and jazz synthesis that would appear in a few years -- and brought Latin rhythms to the band. A Lasting Fusion of Styles
        A year later, Mr. Bauza left Mr. Calloway and joined forces with his brother-in-law, Francisco Perez Gutierrez, who was better known by his stage name, Machito. Together they masterminded the fusion of Afro-Cuban music and jazz that Mr. Bauza had been working on with Dizzy Gillespie, and made it public. By the late 1940's his innovations had become standard practice, not only in the jazz and Afro-Cuban worlds but in pop music as well.
        Mr. Bauza, with both jazz musicans and Latin musicans, was recording regularly, and by the 1950's, Mr. Bauza and his band would play Bop City with Ella Fitzgerald one night, and perform Latin music for dancers the next night.
        Over the next several decades, Mr. Bauza and his sister-in-law, Graciela, with whom he worked regularly, had their commercial ups and downs. Latin music lost ground with the English-speaking audience, and Latin music audiences were increasingly less interested in what was perceived as older music. But Mr. Bauza kept recording and performing; in 1975 he was reunited with Dizzy Gillespie on "Dizzy Gillespie y Machito: Afro-Cuban Jazz Moods" (Pablo), which was nominated for a Grammy. And in the 1980's, Mr. Bauza and Graciela had a resurgence in popularity, as English-speaking audiences discovered Latin music, and as Latin audiences became more aware of the historical antecedents to contemporary Afro-Cuban music.
        Mr. Bauza worked regularly until his death, performing in concert halls and in clubs. He had recently released a new compact disk, "Mario Bauza and his Afro-Cuban Jazz Orchestra: My Time is Now" (Messidor).
        He is survived by his wife, Lourdes, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Maria Lamattina, of Bronxville, N.Y.
      