
        James Peck, a union organizer and pacifist who became widely known as a civil rights worker in the 1960's, died yesterday at Walker Methodist Nursing Home in Minneapolis, where he had lived for about eight years. He was 78 and formerly lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of his death was not clear, said his son Dr. Charles Peck, who added that his father had been paralyzed on one side since a stroke 10 years ago.
        For more than four decades, Mr. Peck, known as Jim, promoted a variety of social causes. His activities included pro-union work among seamen in the 1930's, detention as a conscientious objector in the 1940's, civil rights demonstrations in the South in the 1960's and envelope-stuffing on behalf of Amnesty International in the 1980's.
        In a 1983 interview, not long after his stroke, he said: "My life has been nonviolent direct action to try to make this a better world. It is my philosophy that the struggle has to be a non-ending one, because I am not one of those idealists who envision a utopia." Beaten in Alabama
        Mr. Peck, who was white, was an early member of the Congress for Racial Equality, which is based in New York. He was on its national action committee and for more than a decade edited one of the civil rights group's publications.
        In 1961 he and other CORE members participated in a "freedom ride" from Washington to Mississippi to test a Supreme Court ruling that prohibited segregation on interstate buses. When the group got off their bus in Birmingham, Ala., they were severely beaten with clubs by about 20 white men.
        Mr. Peck's face was "a mass of blood," said the television journalist Howard K. Smith, who was in Birmingham on assignment for CBS News. More than 50 sutures were needed to close his wounds.
        Mr. Peck was born in Manhattan, the son of Samuel Peck, a prosperous clothing wholesaler. He grew up there and graduated from the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn. He entered Harvard University but dropped out after his freshman year because, as his son Charles put it yesterday, "he just decided that the traditional life style of the establishment was not for him."
        He went to Paris for a couple of years, and after that, he worked as a seaman for several years, becoming active in the formation of what became the National Maritime Union.
        At the suggestion of Roger Baldwin of the American Civil Liberties Union, he began working for a news syndicate that served trade union publications. He also did volunteer work in the early civil rights movement. Opponent of War
        In 1940, he declared himself a conscientious objector and worked with the War Resisters League before the United States entered World War II. During the war, he was interned for more than two years in Danbury, Conn., as a conscientious objector.
        After the war, he continued to work on behalf of the league as well as CORE. In 1947 he was among demonstrators who burned their draft cards outside the White House.
        He continued his antiwar efforts during the Vietnam War, helping to organize protests and advising young men eligible for the draft.
        In 1983, a Federal judge in New York awarded him $25,000 in a suit that he had filed in 1976, contending that the Federal Bureau of Investigation could have prevented the attack on him in Birmingham.
        He wrote three books: "We Who Would Not Kill," which came out in the 1950's, "Freedom Ride," which appeared in the mid-1960's, and "Upper Dogs Versus Underdog," which came out in the 1970's.
        His wife of 22 years, the former Paula Zweier, died in 1972.
        In addition to his son Charles, who lives in Minneapolis, Mr. Peck is survived by another son, Samuel Peck, of Del Mar, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      