
        Davey Allison, the 1992 Daytona 500 winner and a member of one of stock-car racing's most prominent families, died yesterday at Carraway Methodist Medical Center in Birmingham, Ala., of head injuries suffered in the crash of a helicopter. He was 32.
        Allison was piloting the craft on Monday, only three weeks after having purchased it, when it went down at the Talladega (Ala.) Superspeedway. He underwent surgery to relieve pressure on his brain, but never regained consciousness. Dr. Evan Zieger, a neurosurgeon at the hospital, pronounced Allison dead at 7 A.M. yesterday.
        Red Farmer, also a driver and the only passenger aboard the helicopter, was listed in critical but stable condition, said David Smitherman, a hospital spokesman. Mechanical Failure Unlikely
        Roff Safer, an investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board, declined to speculate on the cause of the crash, but said there was no indication of mechanical failure. Based on interviews with 10 people who saw all or part of the crash, the investigator said that Allison was attempting to land in a small, fence-enclosed parking lot. The helicopter came within a foot of touching down when it suddenly shot back up 25 feet off the ground and began oscillating and then spinning before plummeting to the ground on its left side, where Allison was sitting.
        Allison, who lived in Hueytown, Ala., had flown to the track to watch a practice run by David Bonnett, the son of Neil Bonnett, another of the stock-car racers from Hueytown who formed the group that was known in the sport as the Alabama Gang.
        The unofficial leader of that tightknit society was Allison's father, Bobby, who had to quit racing after an accident in June 1988 at Pocono, Pa., that nearly took his life and still affects his memory and balance.
        Last August, Davey Allison's brother, Clifford, was killed while practicing for a race at a track in Brooklyn, Mich.
        On July 19 last year, Davey Allison broke an arm and ribs and suffered a concussion in a crash at the Pocono track, but the following weekend he was back on the track, wrestling with one of the 3,500-pound stock cars capable of 200-mile-per-hour speeds.
        His perseverance in 1992, typical of his family's involvement with the sport, nearly brought him its highest honor, the Winston Cup championship. He was on his way to the title when a crash caused by another driver, Ernie Irvan, eliminated him from the last race of the season in Hampton, Ga.
        By the time he had walked out of the track's infirmary a few minutes after that wreck, he had already reconciled himself to the bitter setback, refusing to find fault with Irvan.
        It showed an equanimity that, even by Allison's admission, he might not have displayed earlier in his career. When he graduated in 1985 to the Winston Cup tour, stock-car racing's major league, he arrived with a reputation as a fast driver, but one who needed to get his competitive fires -- and the frustration that came with losing -- under better control.
        After one particularly disappointing loss, Allison injured his hand when he punched the transporter that carried his car.
        But when Larry McReynolds joined Allison's team as its crew chief midway through the 1991 season, it became a watershed in the driver's career. He won 11 of his total of 19 career victories after that, and more important, he became less headstrong behind the wheel.
        That was most evident in Allison's victory in February 1992 in the Daytona 500, the sport's premier race. Accidents took out several top contenders, but Allison seemed to anticipate everyone else's mistakes, instead of adding one of his own, and won.
        After the race, he admitted that if he had been in a similar situation the previous year, he might not have had the good judgment to avoid the havoc.
        He also took the occasion of that post-victory news conference to say that the race would not go down in his memory as his favorite Daytona 500. Instead, he said he would most treasure the 1988 Daytona 500, in which he finished second to his father. Early Start at Racing
        Allison won a total of $6,726,974 in his Winston Cup career.
        Following his father and an uncle, Donnie, from track to track while growing up, Allison was immersed in the sport from an early age.
        "Davey Allison grew up in this sport and, from a small child into adulthood, dedicated his life to it," Bill France Jr., the president of Nascar, stock-car racing's major sanctioning group, said yesterday in a statement.
        Besides his father and mother, Judy, Allison is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; a 3-year-old daughter, Krista Marie; a 23-month-old son, Robert Grey, and two sisters.
      