
        Frank Garcia, a master magician who also taught law officers how to know a crooked card dealer when they saw one, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 and also had a home in Scottsdale, Ariz.
        He died in his sleep of natural causes, his family said.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Garcia grew up on East 113th Street. At the time, he wrote in an autobiography, he was unaware that he shared a street address with Harry Houdini, except that the escape artist's was on West 113th.
        At the age of 8, his parents took him to see a Chinese magic show. He decided then and there what he wanted to do in life and, unlike most other people, he did. He began learning and performing tricks immediately and began his career in earnest as soon as he finished high school. Worked 'Close Up'
        Mr. Garcia, standing an imposing 6 feet, 2 inches, made "close-up" work his domain. His repertory of card manipulations, sponge-ball magic, cups and balls, and sleight-of-hand was highly regarded by his peers. Just before his death, he was honored for his life's work at a magicians' convention in Norway.
        He traveled widely in this country and overseas to give performances and lectures, or to hold master classes for fellow professionals. Internationally, he was billed as "The Man with the Million Dollar Hands."
        He wrote 22 books, most of them issued by his own company, Million Dollar Publications, in New York and Arizona. "Marked Cards and Loaded Dice" (Prentice-Hall, 1962) explained the "gaffs" -- deceits -- used by crooked players to swindle the gullible.
        "How to Detect Crooked Gambling" (self, 1962) was intended as a textbook for law-enforcement agencies. In fact, Mr. Garcia served as a consultant to many police departments, including New York City's, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Armed Forces.
        He entertained the troops in World War II and appeared on national television talk shows.
        Mr. Garcia is survived by his wife, Betty Lou Field-Garcia; a son, Frank N. of Temecula, Calif., and his mother, Felipa of Toms River, N.J.
      