
        Baudouin I, the King of Belgium for 42 years and one of the more reclusive of Europe's dwindling monarchs, died yesterday while vacationing in Motril, a town in the province of Granada in southern Spain. He was 62.
        A spokesman for the Spanish Government attributed the death to a heart attack. The king had been in ill health for two years, having undergone prostate surgery in 1991 and an open-heart operation last year. Baudouin was the fifth king of the Belgians.
        Shy, ever one to shun the dramatic, Baudouin (pronounced bode-WANN) was never a star player on the European political or social stage. He came to power in Brussels at the age of 20 after the abdication of his father, King Leopold 3d. Rarely Seen in Public
        King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola were something of an enigma, as they were rarely seen in public, gave few speeches, and avoided the glitter and pomp enjoyed by many of Europe's other royals.
        Even his ascent to the monarchy came under a cloud since Leopold had been widely criticized for surrendering Belgium to the Nazis when German forces slashed through the country in 1940.
        The King leaves no direct heir. Next in line to the throne is Prince Albert, Baudouin's brother, yet officials in Brussels said he has been expected to offer it to his eldest son, Philippe.
        Baudouin, a 6-foot-tall, almost-gaunt aristocrat who once wanted to be a Trappist monk, seemed to be ill at ease in his role as king and sought to remove the monarchy as much as possible from the rough and tumble of politics.
        For centuries Belgium has been torn by bitter infighting between the French-speaking Walloons and the Flemish, who speak their own language, a variant of Dutch.
        He tried to assume the role of impartial umpire between the two groups, and eventually played a stabilizing role in the controversies between the old antagonists.  Avoided a Decision
        It almost seemed typical that in his one entrance into his country's political spotlight in recent years, Baudouin sidestepped a decision on abortion, letting others do it by invoking an "unable to govern" clause in Belgium's constitution and not being king for a day.
        That move came three years ago, when the Government temporarily suspended Baudouin from power for a day -- with his approval -- after he declared that on religious grounds he could not sign into law an act that would permit abortion.
        The Belgian Cabinet assumed the king's powers, promulgated the law and sent it to Parliament, which approved it and voted the King back into power the following day.
        That political ploy triggered grumbling among many Belgians and served to underscore the uneasy relationship he had for years with his subjects.
        At the age of 3, Baudouin lost his much-beloved grandfather, King Albert I, in a mountain climbing accident in the Ardennes.
        More profoundly, shortly before his 5th birthday, his mother, Queen Astrid, was killed in an auto accident. The car, which was driven by King Leopold, skidded off the road and struck a tree. The Queen died in her husband's arms. Baudouin had revered his Swedish-born mother, widely regarded as one of the most beautiful women in Europe, and her death cast a dark cloud over the boy's childhood. Fled the Nazis
        At age 9 he fled with his family to Portugal, at the start of the German invasion, only to return and live under guard in the Laeken Palace outside Brussels during the Nazi occupation. Taken to Austria by their captors in 1945, the family was eventually liberated by the American Seventh Army. The royal family spent most of the next five years living in Switzerland, until antimonarchist feelings cooled.
        As a youth, Baudouin was deeply depressed by the bitter feelings of many Belgians toward King Leopold for yielding to the Germans without a fight, and for taking as his second wife Liliane Baels, a commoner who was a member of a Belgian family accused of being Nazi sympathizers.
        Baudouin Albert Charles Leopold Axel Marie Gustave of Saxe-Coburg Gotha -- his first name is a Frenchified version of the English name "Baldwin" -- was born in Brussels on Sept. 7, 1930, and educated by tutors and at private schools in Switzerland.
        Baudouin was sworn in as King in 1950, but did not assume the throne until the following year, becoming the country's fifth king since Belgium's independence from the Netherlands in 1830.  Sought a Quiet Visit
        He was self-effacing almost to the verge of obsession. On a visit to New York in 1959, for example, Baudouin was determined to have the traditional ticker-tape parade up Broadway omitted, but finally yielded gloomily to the diplomatic necessity.
        In his early years as monarch he appeared introspective, even timid, opening fairs, laying wreaths, visiting wounded soldiers, and receiving visiting dignitaries in a modest, solemn, reserved manner.
        Even his pleasures were mainly solitary: a round of golf, driving a new sports car or puttering around the palace.
        Ten years after assuming the throne, a period of lingering distrust for the monarchy in his homeland, the King treated the country to a royal wedding to Fabiola de Mora y Aragon, the daughter of a rich Spanish count. But the couple never had children.
        The Belgian Parliament must decide on the succession, and Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene said a special meeting of the ministers would be held today to discuss the succession, as well as funeral arrangements.
      