
        Paul B. Henry, a former political science professor who became a Congressman and a rising star in the Republican Party, died yesterday at his home in Grand Rapids, Mich. He was 51.
        The cause was brain cancer, a Congressional staff spokesman said.
        In 1990 the National Journal named Representative Henry one of the country's 11 rising politicians and said he had strong prospects of being elected to the United States Senate.
        A Christian evangelical, Dr. Henry was a leader in Congressional efforts to bar Federal financing of what was deemed offensive art by the National Endowment for the Arts, but he opposed efforts by some conservatives to abolish all Federal financing for the arts. Influence Before Election
        Even before being elected to office, he influenced national politics. As a friend and adviser, he wrote a 12-page memorandum in 1977 that was credited with persuading Representative John B. Anderson of Illinois run for the Republican nomination for President in 1980. Dr. Henry did not support Mr. Anderson's later decision to run as an independent.
        Dr. Henry taught political science at Duke University in 1969 and at Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., from 1970 to 1978.
        His first elective office was in the Michigan Legislature's House of Representatives, starting in 1978. He served there until 1982, when he was elected to the State Senate.
        In 1984 he won the Congressional seat once held by President Gerald R. Ford, representing the Third District in southern Michigan.
        In Congress, Dr. Henry served on the committees on Education and Labor, Science, Space and Technology, and the Select Committee on Aging. Remaining Upbeat
        On Oct. 21, just two weeks before he won re-election by a wide margin, doctors removed most of a 3-inch malignant tumor from the right frontal lobe of Mr. Henry's brain. Thousands of letters of support flooded his house and offices.
        While Mr. Henry's doctors initially expressed optimism, cancer experts said patients with his type of cancer, glioblastoma multiforme, survived an average of about a year, and fewer than 5 percent survived five years.
        In the months after the surgery, Mr. Henry, his family and staff members tried to remain upbeat and did not discuss the possibility of his resignation. But by late spring, he was mostly bedridden, and by midsummer, his staff said that he could no longer communicate and that they were not sure if he recognized friends.
        A Chicago native, Dr. Henry graduated from Wheaton College, then served in the Peace Corps in Ethiopia and Liberia for two years before earning a master's degree and doctorate at Duke University.
        He had served on the Michigan State Board of Education and as the Kent County Republican Party Chairman.
        Mr. Henry's survivors include his wife of 28 years, the former Karen Borthistle, and two daughters, Kara and Megan, and a son, Jordan.
      