
        Edward J. Breck, who built a small laboratory into a national maker of hair-care products and made the family name a household word, died on Friday at his summer home in Watch Hill, R.I. He was 86 and also had homes in Enfield, Conn., and North Palm Beach, Fla.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Breck retired in 1970 as chairman of Breck & Company, producers of Breck shampoos and other hair-care products. The concern had been sold in 1963 to the American Cyanamid Corporation and became the flagship unit of American Cyanamid's consumer products division. Three years ago, the Breck name and product lines were bought by the Dial Corporation.
        A native of Holyoke, Mass., Mr. Breck graduated from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, where he was the president of the class of 1928. As a registered pharmacist, he briefly worked in the drug field before entering the family business, John H. Breck Inc.
        Mr. Breck's father, John H. Breck Sr., had opened the laboratory in Springfield, Mass., in 1910, and produced sundry creams and tonics. When Mr. Breck joined his father's company in 1929, he developed Breck shampoo along with other hair and scalp treatments.
        Mr. Breck also enlisted the help of a Springfield artist, Charles Sheldon, to create the company's signature advertising feature, the "Breck Girls" and the slogan "Beautiful Hair Breck."
        The company prospered and Mr. Breck succeeded his father as president in 1954. His election as chairman in 1965 was announced by American Cyanamid, then the parent company.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Gertrude O'Brien Breck; two sons, Richard F., of Sarasota, Fla., and William J., of Cos Cob, Conn.; three daughters, Nancy O'Connor of Loudonville, N.Y., Judith Killeen of Longmeadow, Mass., and Mary Constance Wiggenhauser of Somers, Conn.; a brother, John H. Breck Jr. of Longmeadow; two sisters, Marian Sullivan and M. Constance Breck, both of Longmeadow; 25 grandchildren, and 16 great-grandchildren.
      