
        Dr. Albert A. Dahlberg, a Chicago anthropologist who helped piece together the story of humanity by studying the teeth of ancient peoples, died on Friday at his home in Franklin Grove, Ill. He was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, according to the University of Chicago. Dr. Dahlberg was professor emeritus at the Zoller Dental Clinic in the Department of Anthropology as well as a member of the university's Committee on Evolutionary Biology.
        Maintaining a private dental practice in Chicago throughout, he became known as the dean of dental anthropology. In his field research he gathered casts of prehistoric human teeth by the hundreds of thousands.
        The collection drew students and researchers from around the world and made the university's anthropology department a center for the study of evolutionary dentition. Its concern is the number and kind of teeth and how they are arranged in the mouth.
        Dr. Dahlberg led a program in physical anthropology and human evolution through which he trained many of today's leading experts in the fields of dental anthropology, paleoanthropology and primatology, said Russell Tuttle, professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago. He also also helped the authorities to identify crime victims.
        His outings took him to sites of ancient habitation in the Southwest, Alaska, Mexico, Greenland and Asia. He began this work among Arizona's Pima Indians in 1945 when his study of skulls from the South Pacific at the Field Museum in Chicago piqued his interest.
        A native of Chicago, Dr. Dahlberg received his dentistry degree from Loyola University in 1932 and joined the faculty of the Department of Anthropology in 1949. He retired from the university in 1974 but continued to practice dentistry in Chicago until 1988.
        Dr. Dahlberg is survived by his wife, Thelma, a frequent collaborator on his field trips; a daughter, Cordelia Benedict of Falls Church, Va.; two sons, Albert Jr., of Providence, R.I., and James, of Madison, Wis., and eight grandchildren.
      