
        Felix James Grucci Sr., the patriarch of America's first family of fireworks, died on Saturday at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital on Long Island. He was 87.
        He died of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Grucci had ended his active role in the family business about four years ago.
        Mr. Grucci, a lifetime resident of Bellport, L.I., represented the third generation of Grucci practitioners of the art of pyrotechnics. The family started a fireworks business in the Adriatic port of Bari, Italy, in 1853, and he set up shop in Bellport in 1929.
        He gained an international reputation as an innovator in fireworks and was the oldest master craftsman in that field in the country. Holiday Extravaganzas
        He and his family regularly staged their holiday extravaganzas in the skies over dozens of towns all over Long Island. Their handiwork was admired year after year by crowds in New York City where the Gruccis conjured up the razzle-dazzle-boom on New Year's Eves in Central and Prospect Parks, among other events.
        Mr. Grucci's masterpieces of the 1980's sparkled at the centennial celebrations for both the Brooklyn Bridge and the Statue of Liberty, at the Olympic Games at Lake Placid and Los Angeles, and at World's Fairs in Knoxville, Tenn., and New Orleans.
        On Sunday the Gruccis will put on a display in Washington for their fourth straight Presidential inauguration.
        Another highlight in Mr. Grucci's career came in 1979 when the family won the yearly international fireworks competition in Monte Carlo -- the first team from the United States to take the honors.
        Tragedy struck the Gruccis on the Saturday after Thanksgiving in 1982, when the family's cramped factory in Bellport exploded in a mushroom cloud taller than the mock atom-bomb tests the Gruccis had built for the Department of Defense years before. The blast killed two family members, injured 24 people and damaged more than 100 homes.
        Using salvaged fireworks, the Gruccis were back in the two city parks for New Year's Eve that year. They built a new plant in 1985 on a 92-acre tract in Brookhaven, where Grucci Inc. works behind 10-foot sand barriers well away from the nearest homes. 'Considerable Patriarch Figure'
        "Felix Sr. was a considerable patriarch figure," said George Plimpton, the author of "Fireworks: History and Celebration" (Doubleday, 1984). "The crews sent out to fire shows were almost always Grucci-related. I doubt you could marry into the Grucci family unless you were prepared to touch a flare to a fuse.
        "Though Felix Sr. was a traditionalist, it was during his years running the family business that huge advances were made in the science of pyrotechnics -- especially in choreography and the ability to predesign complex shows through electrical rather than manual firing."
        Mr. Grucci was a life member of the Bellport Fire Department, the Italian-American Service Club of Brookhaven and the Knights of Columbus.
        Mr. Grucci is survived by his wife, the former Concetta DiDio; a son, Felix Jr., and a daughter, Donna Grucci Butler, both of Bellport; eight brothers and sisters, Michael of Patchogue, L.I.; Joseph, Peter, Josephine Gazzola, Mary Lotza, Rose Rupola, Rita Klein, all of Bellport, and Antoinette McCleary of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      