
        Dr. Leonard A. Scheele, Surgeon General of the United States under Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower, died Friday in Washington. He was 85 and lived in Washington.
        Dr. Scheele died at the George Washington University Medical Center, where he had been admitted with pneumonia, said a daughter, Alexandra S. Ryan.
        In 1955 he led the Government's effort to insure a smooth and safe distribution of the polio vaccine developed that year by Dr. Jonas Salk. Millions of children and adults were inoculated.
        The excitement that arose after the discovery of a vaccine against polio turned into confusion and dismay when it was found that vaccine produced by one laboratory had actually caused paralytic polio in several instances. Dr. Scheele, a vigorous advocate of the vaccine, halted all production for several days until he was assured that stricter safety standards were in place at all the laboratories. 10 Years as Surgeon General
        He was 41 when he was appointed Surgeon General by Truman in 1948, and was twice reappointed by Eisenhower. Dr. Scheele resigned in 1958 to become a senior vice president of the Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Company and president of its Warner-Chilcott Laboratories. He retired from Warner-Lambert in 1968 but continued to be a consultant to the company.
        He was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1931 and the Wayne State Medical School in 1933. He was commissioned in the Public Health Service in 1934 and was assigned to its National Cancer Institute.
        In World War II Dr. Scheele served with the Army in Europe. He returned to the National Cancer Institute in 1945 as assistant director and became director in 1947.
        He was a diplomate of the American Board of Preventive Medicine and a fellow of the American College of Surgeons and the American Public Health Association.
        Besides his daughter Alexandra, who lives in Washington, Dr. Scheele is survived by his wife, Veronica; another daughter, Maria S. LaForge of Kensington, Calif.; a son, Dr. Leonard A. Scheele of Seattle, six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      