
        Martin S. Ackerman, a flamboyant businessman who specialized in financially troubled companies and closed The Saturday Evening Post amid protests against his dealings, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan, Sharon, Conn., and Paris.
        The cause was acute sepsis after an operation, his family said.
        Mr. Ackerman, the chairman of the Company at his death, was a lawyer and businessman whose career was in mergers, acquisitions, financial workouts and banking. Business Week magazine described him as "a razzle-dazzle financial operator."
        In 1968 he became president of Curtis Publishing by lending $5 million through the Perfect Film and Chemical Corporation, a conglomerate that he had built. At first he disavowed any plans to close the 148-year-old Post, founded by Benjamin Franklin. But in less than a year, he shut it down. "I probably made a mistake," he said a short time later, conceding that he could have handled things better. Slashing Circulation
        In his short reign at Curtis, Mr. Ackerman sold its Philadelphia building, its Ladies Home Journal and American Home magazines and its profitable subscription and distribution division.
        He also halved The Post's circulation of 6 million, seeking a "class rather than mass" audience to draw advertisers. His own subscription, along with that of Gov. Winthrop Rockefeller of Arkansas, were among those culled by computer for cancellation.
        His actions drew lawsuits from a descendant of the Curtis founder, trustees and stockholders. Union officials accused him of diverting $6 million in pension funds to invest in Lin Broadcasting, of which he became president. He defended his decisions as proper.
        After The Post's demise in 1969, he quit Curtis and Perfect Film, saying "I intend to get out of the public limelight." Another publisher later resurrected The Post in another format.
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. Ackerman lived in London, practicing tax law, publishing Arts Review magazine and founding Eaton House Publishers. His first wife, the former Frances Shapiro, followed him to England and back in a dispute over $1 million in support. She won a 1982 Federal court ruling.
        He wrote several books, including "The Curtis Affair" (Nash, 1970) and, with his second wife, "Money, Power, Ego: A Manual for Would-be Wheeler-Dealers" (Playboy, 1976).
        He helped form Republic National Bank on Fifth Avenue and for a time owned a bank in California. He also served on the boards of Zales, Non-Invasive Monitoring Systems, Adience and Calton Home Builders.
        Through a foundation, Mr. Ackerman, a graduate of Rutgers Law School, donated millions of dollars of art, his family said.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Diane Leighton; three daughters, Kelly L. Ackerman of Manhattan, Sharon and Paris, Debra Ackerman of Pompano Beach, Fla., and Victoria Richardson of Vista, Calif.; a son, Richard, of Boca Raton, Fla.; his mother, Rebecca, and a sister, Ruby Levy, both of Rochester, and a brother, Leonard of East Hampton, L.I.
        Correction:  August 5, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Martin S. Ackerman, a businessman, omitted the name of the company of which he was chairman. It was Standard Brands Paint.
      