
        Dr. William G. Niederland, the New York psychoanalyst whose observations of former death-camp inmates led him to formulate the "survivor syndrome" as a distinct condition, died on Friday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 88.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Niederland, himself a refugee from Nazi Germany, balanced a lifelong wish to help people in distress with a keen interest in the creative process. His thoughts and conclusions were distilled in about 200 articles and books.
        He first described the "survivor syndrome" in 1961 and returned to the concept in papers, lectures and interviews. It was derived from his contact with 2,000 patients who survived the camps as well as natural disasters and automobile accidents. The symptoms, he found, included insomnia, nightmares, personality changes, chronic depressive states, disturbances of memory, anxiety and psychosomatic ailments. Source of 'Severe Guilt'
        "The very fact of survival always causes severe guilt," he said about this self-reproach. "Always."
        "The ego," he observed, "is not so massively shattered in a flood survivor as in the survivor of one year in Auschwitz, but the symptoms are the same."
        He was in private practice as a psychiatrist and analyst in New York City from 1952 to 1974, when he moved his office to Englewood. He also taught, most recently at what is now the State University of New York's Health Science Center in Brooklyn, where he was emeritus clinical professor of psychiatry.
        William Guglielmo Niederland was born in a village in East Prussia, now part of Poland, the son of a rabbi. He earned medical degrees at the Universities of Wurzburg and Genoa and, once in this country, the New York Institute of Psychoanalysis. A Ship's Doctor
        After working as a public-health officer and medical director in a sanitarium, he left Germany and traveled for a time. He practiced medicine in Milan, worked as a ship's doctor on vessels in the Philippines and on voyages around the world and was interned in Britain as an enemy alien.
        He arrived in New York in 1940 and went into private practice the next year. In the late 1940's, he taught at the University of Tampa, where he set up a unit to teach better group relations and to combat racial-hate groups like the Ku Klux Klan.
        After three years as a staff psychiatrist at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, he moved in 1953 to what was then the New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and served as a clinical instructor, training psychoanalyst and professor of psychiatry. He reached emeritus status in 1974.
        He was the author or co-author of "Man-Made Plague: A Primer on Neurosis" (Renbayle, 1949), "Psychic Traumatization" (Little Brown; 1971), and "The Schreber Case: Profile of a Paranoid Personality" (Quadrangle, 1974), among others.
        His biographical studies of creativity portrayed Francisco Goya, the archeologist Heinrich Schliemann, Edgar Allan Poe and Fra Mauro, the mysterious Italian monk and cartographer whose 15th-century "Mappa Mundi" was based on accounts by Marco Polo rather than the map maker's own imagination. In the case of Goya, he concluded that the Spanish painter's illnesses and grotesqueries stemmed from lead poisoning and his peculiar work habits.
        Dr. Niederland is survived by three sons, Alan, of Roosevelt, N.J., Daniel, of Munich, Germany, and James, of Englewood, and by two granchildren.
      