
        Stephen R. Endean, who was the nation's first professional lobbyist for gay men and lesbians and the founder of the nation's largest gay political organization, died at home on Wednesday. He was 44 and lived in Washington.
        He died of AIDS, said a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign Fund, the organization he created.
        Drawn to politics as a youth in Minnesota, Mr. Endean volunteered as an aide for local and state political candidates starting at the age of 18.
        The gay rights movement, which arose after homosexuals clashed with the police at the Stonewall gay bar in Greenwich Village in 1969, inspired him at 22 to become open about his homosexuality. Feeling that his declaration precluded a career as a politician, he decided to use his skills to promote gay rights through the political process.
        His initial efforts drew critics ranging from homosexuals uncomfortable with a public campaign to the strident foes of homosexuality.  Success, After Many Years
        Mr. Endean's first major project was in the early 1970's, campaigning for a Minnesota bill to bar discrimination against homosexuals. He lobbied during the day on a $300 monthly salary paid by supporters of the bill, supplementing that salary by working nights as a coat checker at a gay bar. He recalled that one enraged legislator yelled a slur and threw a book at his head.
        The bill was finally passed this spring. Although weakened by his illness, he returned to lobby for its enactment.
        That original campaign drew national attention, and in 1978 he became the first executive director and the lobbyist for the Gay Rights National Lobby in Washington. When he took charge, the struggling group had a single desk in another organization's office, a disconnected telephone and a pile of unpaid bills. Within two years the grouphad a new building with a staff of 10 and an annual budget of more than $300,000.
        In 1982 he created the Human Rights Fund Campaign as a political action committee; the gay rights lobby group eventually merged with the campaign fund. The fund, which claims 75,000 members, raised $5 million last year for lobbying and organizing.
        Survivors include his parents, Robert Endean and Marilyn Endean Lowe, and a sister, Mary Ellen Barna, all of Minneapolis.
      