
        Irving H. Leopold, a leading ophthalmologist, died on Monday at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif., where he lived. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Leopold's patients included Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon, his family said. He was an expert on treatments, especially those involving antibiotics and chemotherapy.
        Dr. Leopold was a past chairman of the American Board of Ophthalmology; the ophthalmology panel of the United States Pharmacopeia, which sets standards for drugs, and the Association for Research in Ophthalmology. He was also vice president of the National Society to Prevent Blindness.
        He served as a professor and chairman of the ophthalmology departments of the University of California at Irvine, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan and the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Leopold also headed the ophthalmology departments of several hospitals, including those at the University of Pennsylvania and Mount Sinai, and was research and medical director at Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia.
        For 15 years he directed the medical affairs division of Allergan, a company in Irvine that makes drugs for eye ailments.
        During World War II he worked for the Federal Office of Scientific Research and Development on therapies for eye injuries caused by chemical warfare. He also advised the Public Health Service, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Academy of Sciences and the National Eye Institute.
        Dr. Leopold lectured around the world, wrote more than 340 scientific papers, was the editor in chief of the Survey of Ophthalmology and served on the boards of several other journals.
        He was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Pennsylvania State College and the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned his medical degree and a doctorate in medical science. He retired in 1988.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Eunice Robinson; a son, John Leopold of Pasadena, Md.; a daughter, Ellen Leopold of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      