
        The Rev. Homer A. Jack, a Unitarian minister who headed a United Nations disarmament agency for a decade and championed other peace and civil rights causes, died at his home in Swarthmore, Pa., on Thursday. He was 77.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Jack founded the United Nations Non-Governmental Committee on Disarmament in the early 1970's and was its chairman till 1983. In that post, he prodded governments to reverse the arms buildup and prevent a recurrence of nuclear warfare.
        "It's not enough to write or preach about brotherhood and peace," he once said. "One must try however one can to jump into the fray."
        He was also a founder of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy and served as executive director from 1960 to 1964. And he was secretary-general of the World Conference on Religion and Peace from 1970 to 1983.
        He was a founder of the Congress on Racial Equality. From 1944 to 1948 he was executive director of the Chicago Council Against Racial and Religious Discrimination. He was chairman of the Association of Fair Housing Committees in New York City in the 1960's and organized Unitarian ministers for the 1965 march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala. From 1950 to 1959 he was vice chairman of the American Civil Liberties Union in Illinois.
        Dr. Jack criticized his own country as well as other nations. "I just don't see the world community working as fast on this thing as is needed," he said of disarmament in 1982. "I'm terribly pessimistic, but we have to keep pushing on."
        In 1980 he said, "U.S. tactics only increased the danger of the spread of nuclear weapons -- certainly a disservice to both U.S. policy and world interests." In the 1970's he denounced United States actions on world hunger, saying, "I was ashamed to be an American."
        Dr. Jack assailed McCarthyism as well as Soviet totalitarianism and anti-Semitism. He supported China's entry to the United Nations, criticized the group's resolution equating Zionism with racism, was an early foe of the Vietnam War, opposed massacres in Bangladesh, spoke out against Indira Gandhi's curbs on civil liberties, criticized the Central Intelligence Agency's support of the military regime in Greece and fought apartheid.
        Born in Rochester, N.Y., he graduated from Cornell University and earned a master's degree and doctorate in science there. But, he said, "I became more interested in men than in mice."
        While studying at Meadville Theological School in Chicago, he became friends with pacifists and civil rights organizers like A. J. Muste, Bayard Rustin and James Farmer.
        Dr. Jack served as pastor of a Unitarian church in Evanston, Ill., from 1948 to 1959 and briefly at churches in Litchfield, Ill., and Lawrence, Kan. He was also director of the Social Responsibility Division of Unitarian Universalist Association for North America.
        An advocate of Mahatma Gandhi's nonviolent resistance, he compiled "Wit and Wisdom of Gandhi" and "The Gandhi Reader." He also wrote about Albert Schweitzer, whom he visited several times, and served on the board of the Albert Schweitzer Foundation. He also edited several books on disarmament, peace and religion.
        His first marriage ended in divorce.
        His survivors include his wife of 21 years, the former Ingeborg Kind; a son, Alexander of Hinsdale, Mass.; a daughter, Lucy Jack Williams of Brookline, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      