
        Christopher Gillis, a choreographer and a longtime leading dancer with the Paul Taylor Dance Company, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42.
        The cause was AIDS, said Ellen Jacobs, a spokeswoman for the Taylor company.
        Mr. Gillis was a prototypical Taylor dancer, with a compact body and a boyishly serious manner through which a glint of humor often showed. Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Gillis's "serene muscularity full of nuance, unassuming wit and acute rhythmic training" in a review of his 1990 "Curbs and Corridors." She continued, "In his stage personality, he captures an inner reality, an interior brooding, behind a striking physical bravura."
        Mr. Gillis was born in Montreal to the Olympic skiers Gene Gillis and Rhona Wurtele. He began his dance training in 1972 with two American modern-dance choreographers, May O'Donnell and Norman Walker. He also studied with Mr. Taylor, Finis Jhung and Cindi Green. He joined the Taylor company in 1976. Among his major roles in the company were the detective in Mr. Taylor's version of "Le Sacre du Printemps" and leading parts in "Profiles," "Arden Court" and "Speaking in Tongues." Abstract Yet Emotional
        Mr. Gillis also performed with his sister, the Montreal choreographer and dancer Margie Gillis, and with the companies of Miss O'Donnell and Jose Limon.
        Mr. Gillis became a prolific choreographer, showing his first dances in the early 1980's, initially independently and later as part of the Taylor company's repertory. He created 21 works, to music ranging from Mozart to the songs of Dionne Warwick. His last piece, "Landscape," was a solo meditation on death. Ms. Gillis performed it at the Joyce Theater in January.
        Mr. Gillis seldom told stories in his dances, which tended to be relatively abstract with undercurrents of emotion. "I try to do movement right from the emotions," he said in 1990, when his choreography was presented at the Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. "That makes the movement have a soft core to it."
        His major works include "Andalusian Green," "Farewell," "Icarus at Night," "Luv's Alfabete" and "Homeward." His dances are in the repertories of the Taylor troupe, Mikhail Baryshnikov's White Oak Dance Project, the Repertory Dance Theater and the Fairfax Ballet. Ms. Gillis also performed several of his pieces.
        Mr. Gillis is survived by his sister Margie; his mother, of Actonvale, Quebec; his father, of Dillon, Colo.; another sister, Nancy Gillis Anderson, and a brother, Jere Alan Gillis, both of Montreal.
      