
        James E. Dingman, who played a role in the birth of satellite communications as chief engineer at A.T.& T., died on Saturday at his summer home in Vergennes, Vt. He was 92 and lived in Delray Beach, Fla.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Dingman retired in 1966 as vice chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. He began his 44-year career in telecommunications in 1922 as an equipment tester in Philadelphia for the Western Electric Company, the Bell system's manufacturing and supply arm. Role in Developing Telstar
        He was an important player in the development of the 170-pound Telstar satellite, whose launching as the first private venture in space opened the modern era of telecommunications, expanding telephone service and paving the way for cable television and other industries. He oversaw the first telecast beamed into space and back to Earth with an experimental satellite transmission to Telstar from Maine in 1962.
        Although Telstar was silenced by radiation damage in early 1963, the satellite is still in orbit. It has been joined by dozens of newer satellites using far more advanced technologies that can relay signals in seconds.
        From 1964 to 1973, Mr. Dingman was a director of Comsat, the Communications Satellite Corporation set up by Congress.
        A native of Baltimore, James Everett Dingman earned a master's degree in engineering at the University of Maryland in 1921. After his initial job at Western Electric, he quickly moved up at the A.T.& T. Long Lines Department in Troy, N.Y., New Haven and New York City.
        By 1937 he was a division plant superintendent. Six years later he was named employee-relations manager in New York. He moved to the Bell Company of Philadelphia in 1949 as vice president of personnel and, later, operations.
        Moving on to Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York in 1952, he was vice president and general manager and then director of operations. He became vice president and chief engineer at A.T.& T., the parent company, in 1959. He was elected executive vice president in 1961 and vice chairman of the board in 1965.
        Mr. Dingman is survived by his wife of 63 years, Amelia Williamson Dingman; a son, Michael D. Dingman, of Hampton, N.H.; a daughter, Nancy Dingman Cannon of Darien, Conn.; nine grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      