
        Harry Bellaver, a character actor on television and in the theater, died on Sunday in Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Tappan, N.Y.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter Lee.
        Mr. Bellaver (pronounced BELL-uh-ver) was best known for his role as Sergeant Arcaro on the television series "Naked City" from 1960 to 1964 and for his Broadway roles as Chief Sitting Bull in "Annie Get Your Gun" and the coach in "That Championship Season."
        Mr. Bellaver was born to Italian immigrant parents who worked in the coal-mining camps of Hillsboro, Ill. After quitting school in the sixth grade, he worked as a teamster, a farmhand and a coal miner before winning a scholarship to Brookwood Labor College in Katonah, N.Y., where he acted in school productions and met the theater director Jasper Deeter. After graduating from college, Mr. Bellaver accepted an invitation from Mr. Deeter to join the Hedgerow Repertory Theater near Philadelphia. He stayed with the theater for four years, performing more than 50 roles. Helped Found Actors' Equity
        In 1930 he moved to New York City and found work with the Group Theater, appearing in more than 30 plays over the next 14 years, including "The House of Connelly," "The Threepenny Opera" and "Mr. Sycamore." During this period he helped found Actors' Equity.
        During World War II he toured the front lines as a stage manager and actor in the U.S.O. show "Over 21," which starred Vivian Vance and Philip Ober.
        His first film was "Another Thin Man," made in 1939. Others included "The House on 92d Street," "Love Me or Leave Me," "From Here to Eternity" and "The Old Man and the Sea."
        Mr. Bellaver acted on live television in the dramatic series "Kraft Television Theater" and "Philco Television Playhouse." From 1964 to 1969, he played the role of Ernie Downs on the soap opera "Another World."
        In addition to his daughter Lee, of Stone Ridge, N.Y., he is survived by another daughter, Vaughan Allentuck of East Hampton, L.I., two grandsons, a granddaughter, and two great-granddaughters.
      