
        Lieut. Gen. James H. Ahmann of the Air Force, a highly decorated Vietnam War pilot who helped plan military fighter planes, died at his home in Vienna, Va., on Sunday. He was 62.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        As a combat pilot he flew 230 missions in Vietnam in the early 1960's and on a second tour of duty in 1969-70. He also served with the Seventh Air Force Tactical Air Control Center in Vietnam as chief of current operations and plans. In that role he helped plan the A-10 attack plane and the F-15 Eagle fighter plane.
        General Ahmann graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1954 and from the Air Command and Staff College in 1966. He also earned a master degree's in electrical engineering at the Air Force Institute of Technology. Wing Commander in Europe
        From 1960 to 1962 he was a range development officer in the lunar landing program at Cape Canaveral, Fla.. He was later transferred to the Air Force headquarters in 1970 and served as chief of the tactical support division, chief of the fighter division and deputy director for general purpose and airlift studies.
        Later, General Ahmann was commander of the 52d Tactical Fighter Wing in West Germany, the 20th Tactical Fighter Wing in England and the Eastern Test Range at Patrick Air Force Base in Florida, where he also served as the Department of Defense manager of support operations for manned space flights.
        General Ahmann was also chief of the United States Military Training Mission in Saudi Arabia and director of plans at the Air Force headquarters in the Pentagon.
        After retiring in 1982 as director of the Defense Department's Security Assistance Agency, he worked for the Northrop Corporation and the General Dynamics Corporation.
        Among the military decorations he received were the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, the Distinguished Flying Cross with two oak leaf clusters, the Bronze Star and the Meritorious Service Medal with oak leaf cluster.
        General Ahmann's first marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 26 years, the former Jean Godbey; a son, Second Lieut. Luke Ahmann, stationed at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass.; three daughters, Lisa Wood of Little Rock, Ark., and Carolyn and Nora Ahmann, both of Vienna; a sister, Katherine Eicher of Milton, Fla., and a grandchild.
      