
        C. Robert Manby, a retired entertainment executive, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Stamford, Conn.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Manby was a former president and chairman of RKO Pictures and also worked in radio, television, home video and theater production.
        RKO's films during his tenure from 1978 to 1986 included "Plenty," "The Lighthorsemen" and "Hamburger Hill." With Universal, RKO also produced "The Border," "Cat People" and "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas." A Founder of RKO Home Video
        In 1979, Mr. Manby and others formed RKO Home Video to distributed RKO classics including the first "King Kong," "Gunga Din" and "Fort Apache." The company also became a producer of stage plays and musicals for television, including the American version of "Sweeney Todd," the first major Broadway musical filmed for pay television.
        Mr. Manby's career began in management at the Cleveland office of the Mutual Broadcasting System radio network in 1947. In 1957, when General Teleradio bought RKO Radio Pictures, he and Fred Schneier formed Show Corporation of America to distribute RKO's old movies for overseas theaters and television.
        In 1975, Mr. Manby started managing RKO General's majority holding in the Cablecom-General cable company. His projects there included Teleticket, the first regional sports network for pay cable.
        With Shane O'Neil, Mr. Manby founded RKO Pictures in 1978, reprising the film studio name. He also served as senior vice president of the parent company, RKO General, until retiring in 1986. Coast Guard Officer
        Mr. Manby was born in Battle Creek, Mich. He graduated from Hillsdale College in 1942 and earned a master's degree in business administration at Harvard in 1953.
        In World War II, he served as a United States Coast Guard intelligence officer and became friends with a fellow serviceman, Thomas O'Neil, Shane O'Neil's father. After the war, Thomas O'Neil ran General Teleradio and recruited Mr. Manby.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Pauline Chapple; two sons, Charles R. Jr. of South Royalton, Vt., and Thomas T. of Norwalk, Conn.; a daughter, Laura Manby of Bridgeport, Conn.; a brother, James B. of Flossmoor, Ill.; a sister, Barbara Manby Lyon of Brevard, N.C.; a stepmother, Helen Warner Manby of Kalamazoo, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      