
        Jack Abramson, a New York garment manufacturer who spent much of his time officiating at sports events and comforting disabled veterans, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 79 and lived at Jamaica Estates, Queens.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Abramson was assistant to the chairman of Diamonds Run Ltd., a Manhattan women's dressmaker. Born in Ardsley-on-Hudson, he attended New York University and received a merit award from the university's Alumni Club.
        From 1936 to 1963, Mr. Abramson served as president of Diamond Tea Gown.
        From 1963 until he joined Diamonds Run about 12 years ago, he was executive vice president of Drummond Knitwear. He also headed the Negligee and Lingerie Association, an industry organization, from 1948 to 1963.
        He was a member of the United States Olympic Swimming Committee for 30 years until 1986, and a past president of the Metropolitan Amateur Athletics Union. He was meet director of the United States Olympic swimming, diving and water-polo trials in 1965, the first time the event took place in New York.
        He was the swimming coordinator at the International Games for the Disabled held on Long Island in 1984. During his long association with the United States Committee Sports for Israel and the Maccabiah Games, an international meet for Jewish athletes held every four years in Israel, he served as committee vice chairman and swim chairman. He also was captain of American teams at the Maccabiah Games from 1969 to 1981.
        He was a co-founder of the 52 Association of the United States, a volunteer group formed during World War II to recruit entertainers and to put together shows for patients in Veterans Adminstration hospitals. He was its president from 1946 to 1952.
        Mr. Abramson is survived by his wife of 56 years, Ruth Diamond Abramson; three sons, Allan, of Muttontown, N.J., David, of Manhattan, and Richard, of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      