
        Jerome J. Londin, a lawyer who discovered a way for the Federal Government to recover hundreds of millions of dollars from contractors, died July 22 at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack after several years of partial paralysis from post-polio syndrome, his family said.
        Mr. Londin, a former Federal prosecutor, worked most of his career as a private litigator in civil and criminal cases.
        For the last four years he was counsel to the United States Defense Logistics Agency. There he developed a program for recovering excess Federal payments to military contractors for employee pensions, by suing for pension fund surpluses.
        The first two cases, settled in the last year, are expected to net the Government $180 million. Officials predict that future cases will raise the total substantially.
        Mr. Londin worked for the United States Attorney for New York's Southern District from 1956 to 1961, rising from assistant chief of the criminal division to executive assistant of the entire office.
        He prosecuted mobsters and white-collar criminals in securities and tax cases. The defendants included Vito Genovese, the head of an international narcotics ring, and Alexander L. Guterma, a financier convicted of stock manipulation.
        Returning to private practice, Mr. Londin joined the Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle law firm. For 16 years he was a senior partner in the firm Carro, Spanbock, Londin, Fass & Geller before becoming a solo practitioner in 1982. He specialized in criminal cases and antitrust, securities and tax litigation.
        Mr. Londin was born in Manhattan and grew up in the Bronx.
        In World War II he served as a first lieutenant in military intelligence. He won two Bronze Stars for capturing 49 Japanese soldiers who continued fighting after the surrender because they did not know about it.
        After graduating from Harvard, he worked a year as an undercover narcotics agent for the Treasury Department. Then he earned a law degree at Cambridge University on a Fulbright scholarship.
        Before becoming a prosecutor, he worked for two law firms, Kahr Spitzer, and Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn.
        Mr. Londin served on the boards of the regional Anti-Defamation League, the Hebrew Free Loan Society and the Menorah Home and Hospital in Brooklyn.
        Surviving are his wife of 12 years, the former Jean Thompson; a son and daughter by a previous marriage to Barbara Goldman, Robert, of Roslyn Estates, L.I., and Victoria Londin DeBenedetto of Cross River, N.Y; a sister, Marilyn Walcoff of Baldwin, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      