
        Jackson E. Betts, a retired Congressman who stirred national debate over the census by challenging expanded Federal questionnaires as an invasion of privacy, died on Friday at his home in Findlay, Ohio. He was 89.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Betts, who called himself "a country Congressman," first won election to the House of Representatives in 1951 and served there for the next 22 years. His Congressional seat was near Toledo in northern Ohio.
        As a senior Republican, he became his party's second-ranking member on the powerful Ways and Means Committee. Helped Removed Jail Term
        In the 1960's, he made an issue of the Census Bureau's increasingly detailed surveys, which added queries on toilets, clothes dryers, prior marriages, vehicles, television sets, shared bathrooms and income from alimony.
        His campaign inspired a cartoon showing a census-taker shouting through a steamy shower curtain: "Is anyone in there with you?"
        Mr. Betts argued that the only constitutionally mandatory purpose of the census is to count the population for reapportioning Congressional districts. Going beyond that, he said, is "an abuse of Federal power." He criticized laws that authorized a $100 fine and a 60-day jail sentence for failing to answer, although those penalties were rarely imposed.
        Defenders of the census said privacy was maintained because the answers remained confidential. And they said the resulting statistics provided essential data on many demographic issues and living conditions, including housing, longevity, racial composition, income, family size, age distribution and school enrollment.
        Mr. Betts introduced a bill to make it voluntary to answer questions other than those asked in the nation's first census in 1790: name, address, sex, birth date, marital status and visitors in the home. His proposal gained support in Congress, which eventually compromised by eliminating the jail term for failing to answer the questions. Retired in 1973
        Mr. Betts retired in 1973. Had he chosen to run again, he would have been forced to campaign in a new district: the redistricting based on the 1970 census led to the elimination of his old district.
        He returned to his law practice and taught constitutional law at the University of Findlay. He retired about four years ago.
        Mr. Betts was born in Findlay. After graduating from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, and Yale Law School, he joined his father's law firm in 1930.
        He first won election as Hancock County's prosecuting attorney in 1933, then served in the Ohio House of Representatives from 1937 to 1947, where he was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and Speaker in 1945-46.
        His survivors include his wife of 59 years, the former Martha Neeley; a daughter, Nancy L. Bowman of Buffalo; two brothers, Richard Betts of Findlay and Thomas F. Betts of Deshler, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
      