
        Robert M. W. Kempner, who was a member of the United States prosecution staff at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and who wrote about the Nazi era, died Sunday in Frankfurt, Germany, where he practiced law. He was 93 and also had a home in Lansdowne, Pa.
        He had been in ill health for months, but continued to do some work on his legal practice, The Associated Press reported from Berlin yesterday.
        Mr. Kempner was born in Germany, spent his early years there and became the senior legal adviser to the police in Prussia and an opponent of Nazism. He left Germany after Hitler came to power and settled in the United States, where he did research on European dictatorships at the University of Pennsylvania and was a consultant to the Department of Justice and other Government agencies.
        While Mr. Kempner worked with the team of prosecutors at the Nuremberg trials that followed the Nazi surrender at the end of World War II in Europe, his familiarity with German police methods provided useful insights, Telford Taylor wrote in the book "The Anatomy of the Nuremberg Trials," which came out in 1992. The Case Against Goring
        At Nuremberg, Mr. Kempner's work included heading the prosecutorial unit that drew up the case against Hermann Goring, one of the main figures in the Hitler regime, and against other Nazis who were defendants at the principal war crimes trial there.
        He also was credited with finding, in 1947 among diplomatic archives in what was then West Germany, what became widely known as the Wannsee Protocol. This was a record of a conference in January 1942 at which high-level Nazis approved plans for what later became known as the Holocaust but in Nazi jargon was termed "the final solution" of the Jewish problem.
        Justifying the Nuremberg trials, which were carried out by the victorious allies, Mr. Kempner once observed, "It was in accordance with the tradition of our legal history that the 'victors' should be the executors of justice in the occupied country after the war."
        Robert Max Wasilii Kempner was born in Freiburg, Germany, on Oct. 17, 1899, the son of Walter K. Kempner and the former Lydia Rabinowitsch. He studied law, political science and other subjects at the universities of Berlin, Breslau and Freiburg.
        In 1951 Mr. Kempner began his law practice in Frankfurt. He also spoke out repeatedly about the Nazi era.
        In 1960, he served as an expert witness at the trial, in Israel, of Adolf Eichmann, who helped carry out the "final solution" as an SS officer.
        In an interview some years ago, Mr. Kempner said that scientists implicated in experiments carried out by the Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele had escaped notice after World War II. In 1981 he described Karl Doenitz, the Grand Admiral who administered the German Reich for 23 days in 1945 until the unconditional surrender that ended World War II in Europe, as a loyal assistant to Hitler.
        Admiral Doenitz was convicted by the Nuremberg tribunal of war crimes.
        After initiative by Mr. Kempner, a subsidiary of the giant West German Flick industrial empire paid an indemnity of more than $2 million in 1986 to a New York-based organization representing the interests of Jews who were used as slave laborers by the Nazis.
        The payment by the subsidiary brought to a conclusion a long attempt by the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany to obtain reparations for 1,300 survivors who had been forced to work in gunpowder factories during World War II. Most were young women from Hungary and Czechoslovakia.
        The sale of the Flick holding company to a large West German private bank in 1985 prompted Mr. Kempner to urge that steps be taken "to rid the company of the stigma of nonpayment of reparations to the surviving victims."
        Mr. Kempner's numerous writings included his memoirs, "Accuser of an Epoch," which came out in 1983.
        His wife, Ruth, died 10 years ago.
        His survivors include two sons, Lucian and Andre; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Kempner is to be buried in Berlin.
      