
        Frank R. Barnett, founder and president of the National Strategy Information Center of Washington and New York, died on Sunday at a Manhattan nursing home. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, the center said, adding that he had had cancer.
        Mr. Barnett's interest in national security studies grew from a belief that questions of war and peace should not be the left to Federal officials and the military alone. To that end, he worked to develop educational programs in conjunction with the American Bar Association, universities, organized labor and business.
        He founded the center, a nonprofit, nonpartisan body, in 1962. Its goal was to bring together leaders of public opinion and provide information on national defense and international security through seminars, policy workshops and briefing sessions.
        Known for its anti-Communist and pro-military stance, the center continued to monitor the military equations after the demise of the Soviet Bloc. But it also developed educational courses for the 1990's that discussed economics, the environment and ethics. It also continued its research on American intelligence policy and sponsored unclassified workshops with intelligence specialists.
        A native of Chillicothe, Ohio, Frank Rockwell Barnett was educated at Wabash College, Bradley University, Syracuse University, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Zurich and, as a Rhodes Scholar from Indiana, at Oxford University.
        In World War II, he was a Russian interpreter in the 69th Infantry Division, which met the Soviet Army on the Elbe River in April 1945. After the war, he was attached to the staff of the United States Military Government in Berlin.
        From 1955 to 1962 he was a vice president and director of research of the Smith Richardson Foundation, an anti-Communist group founded in 1935.
        He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London.
        Mr. Barnett is survived by his wife, Marjorie, and a brother, Frederick, of Florida.
      