
        Jacob D. Beam, a diplomat who served in the United States' most sensitive foreign post in the 1970's as Ambassador to the Soviet Union, died on Monday at a hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 85 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        President Richard M. Nixon appointed Mr. Beam to the post in Moscow. His tenure, from 1969 to 1973, was in a delicate period when the United States was shifting gears from the lingering Vietnam War and embarking on detente.
        Although the assignment capped Mr. Beam's career, it proved bittersweet. Henry A. Kissinger, as national security adviser during President Nixon's first term, engaged in shuttle diplomacy that sometimes undercut the State Department. In advance of a 1972 summit meeting, he met secretly with top Soviet officials in Moscow, and did not tell the embassy until the talks were over. Mr. Beam never publicly complained. In his memoirs, Mr. Kissinger expressed regret, describing Mr. Beam as "a true professional" who "deserved better." Momentous Assignments
        Through his 42 years as a diplomat, Mr. Beam repeatedly turned up in strategic locales at momentous points, when the stakes involved war, invasion, national independence or moves for disarmament and peace.
        An early assignment was the American Embassy in Berlin from 1934 to 1940. When Mr. Beam arrived, he later recalled, the staff had not gathered information on the Nazis.
        He saw the growing threat and on a visit to Washington surprised many by predicting that Germany would defeat France and push the British back to the English Channel. His forecast came true within a year.
        From 1941 to 1944, he served in London as Britain battled for survival. After World War II ended, he returned to Germany, advising the government of occupation set up by the Allies.
        In 1949 and 1950 he was posted to Indonesia as it gained independence from the Netherlands. He also served on a United Nations commission for the emerging country. Careful Preparation
        At 6 feet 2, Mr. Beam towered over most colleagues and was respected for his knowledge and formidable diplomatic skills.
        Sensing the importance of the Soviets, he had paid out of his own pocket for lessons in Russian history and language. He also negotiated in French, German, Serbian and Polish.
        His preparation paid off in 1953, when he was the charge d'affaires in Moscow during a vacancy in the ambassador's post. A crisis developed as Stalin fell ill and died, and a power struggle ensued.
        Mr. Beam kept the embassy operating smoothly, informing Washington on the fast-changing events. He was briefly elevated to ambassador to attend Stalin's funeral.
        In 1955 he was placed in charge of the State Department's office of Eastern European Affairs during a turbulent period in that region. Talks in Poland
        As the cold war continued, President Eisenhower named Mr. Beam to his first ambassadorship, to Poland. That assignment, from 1957 to 1961, had much broader import because Warsaw was the only place for diplomatic contact between China and the United States, which did not recognize the Communist government of China.
        Tensions were rising because China was demanding -- with occasional gunfire for emphasis -- that the Nationalist Chinese give up the offshore islands Quemoy and Matsu. But as talks developed in Warsaw, tensions eased.
        Mr. Beam became the assistant director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1962. He was Ambassador to Czechoslovakia from 1966 to 1969, a period that included the Soviet invasion in 1968 to crush Prague's deviation from Communist orthodoxy. Despite the dangers, Mr. Beam drove amid the Russian tanks in his green Chevrolet convertible. He organized convoys to transport stranded Americans and let reporters use the embassy telex to file dispatches.
        Mr. Beam was born in Princeton, N.J. As a young man, he traveled in Europe with his father, who taught German at Princeton University, and also visited an uncle who served as the American minister to Yugoslavia.
        After graduating from Princeton in 1929, Mr. Beam studied a year in England before joining the Foreign Service in 1931 in Switzerland. There he helped monitor the League of Nations.
        On an assignment in Yugoslavia, he met Margaret Glassford, a United States Information Service worker, and they married.
        After retiring as the Ambassador to the Soviet Union, he served as chairman of Radio Free Europe.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include a son, Alex, of Newton, Mass., and three grandchildren.
        -
      