
        Thomas B. Gilchrist Jr., a former city, state and Federal prosecutor whose cases included mobsters, bingo profiteers, Communists and spies, died at home on Saturday. He was 81 and lived in South Salem, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Gilchrist served as the Chief Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York in 1955-57. He presented the evidence that resulted in the indictments of John Dioguardi, known as Johnny Dio, and others for their roles in the blinding of Victor Riesel, the labor columnist, with sulfuric acid.
        He also won convictions of six Communist Party officials for violating the Smith Act by advocating the violent overthrow of the Government. In a Soviet spy case, a star witness was Boris Morros, a Hollywood producer and music director who worked as a double agent for the United States.
        Mr. Gilchrist began fresh out of law school as an assistant to Thomas E. Dewey, the special rackets prosecutor in New York City, and continued as his assistant when Mr. Dewey became the Manhattan District Attorney. Meyer Lansky Surrendered
        When Mr. Dewey became Governor, he appointed Mr. Gilchrist as a special assistant attorney general in 1952 and 1953 to investigate gambling and political corruption in Saratoga Springs.
        That inquiry forced the closing of casinos and also resulted in the mobster Meyer Lansky's surrendering to Mr. Gilchrist. Mr. Lansky pleaded guilty to a gambling charge and drew a 90-day sentence.
        In 1961 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller named Mr. Gilchrist to investigate abuses in bingo. After hearings Mr. Gilchrist concluded that "evils have permeated all phases of control and conduct of bingo at all levels." His report prompted remedial legislation.
        As a private lawyer, Mr. Gilchrist practiced with his father's law firm, Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, then at Bleakley, Platt & Fritz. At his death he was of counsel to Kelley Drye & Warren.
        For many years he was the Town Attorney for New Castle, N.Y., and he also served as a fire commissioner in Vista, N.Y. He was a former chairman of the Loomis Chaffee School and general counsel and vice president of the Greater New York Council of the Boy Scouts.
        He also served on the boards of the Manhattan Savings Bank and the Mony Series Fund.
        Mr. Gilchrist was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Yale in 1933 and from the Columbia University Law School in 1937.
        He served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army in World War II and won the Legion of Merit award for his work in planning for the General Staff and the Undersecretary of War. During the Korean War he served domestically as a colonel.
        Surviving are five sons, Eric, of Denver, Thomas B. 3d, of Thornwood, N.Y., C. B. Marshall, of Scottsdale, Ariz., R. Angus C., of South Salem and Alexander J. G., of Fredericksburg, Va.; three daughters, Gail G. Snead of Nantucket, Mass., Juliet H., of South Salem and Clarice A. Harbin of Colorado Springs, Colo., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 20, 1993, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Thomas B. Gilchrist Jr., a former city, state and Federal prosecutor in New York, omitted two survivors. They are James S. Solin of Baltimore and Charles B. Solin of Washington, stepsons from his fourth marriage.
      