
        Dr. Charles Philamore Bailey, an innovative heart surgeon, died yesterday at his home in Marietta, Ga. He was 82.
        Merrill S. Meadow, the media relations manager at Hahnemann University in Philadelphia, where Dr. Bailey formerly worked, said the Bailey family had reported only that the doctor had died of natural causes.
        In a statement yesterday, Dr. Denton A. Cooley, the Houston heart surgeon, called Dr. Bailey "a pioneer heart surgeon whose intrepid surgical procedures, introduced in the 1940's, will live in the history of heart surgery."
        Dr. Cooley said Dr. Bailey "could well be considered as the father of direct heart surgery, having demonstrated that the human heart could withstand manipulations which were previously considered impossible."
        He also said that "Dr. Bailey's professional career was somewhat uneven because of his volatile nature and disregard for his critics" and that his "aggressive and often uncompromising convictions" had led to a reputation for controversy. Many Contributions
        Dr. Bailey developed several new techniques and instruments for heart surgery.
        Dr. Bailey was born in Wanamassa, N. J., grew up in central New Jersey, studied at Rutgers University, earned an M. D. from Hahnemann Medical College in 1932 and went on to earn M. S. and D. Sc. degrees at the University of Pennsylvania.
        He was the chief of thoracic surgery at Hahnemann University Hospital in the 1940's and 1950's and was director of cardiovascular surgery at the Deborah Heart and Lung Center in Browns Mills, N. J., from 1956 to 1961.
        Dr. Bailey was also a professor and the director of general surgery at the New York Medical College and Flower-Fifth Avenue Hospitals from 1959 to 1962. He held numerous other administrative, surgical and teaching posts.
        He began studying evenings at Fordham Law School in the late 1960's, earned a law degree and became a consultant to law firms and insurance companies. Mr. Meadow said the doctor had stopped doing surgery in the mid-1970's.
        He said Dr. Bailey had continued his legal work until about three weeks ago.
        Dr. Bailey's writings included the book "Surgery of the Heart," published in 1955.
        He is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, the former Lillian Dann; a daughter, Patricia Bailey of Stamford, Conn.; two sons, Robert and Donald Bailey, both of New York City, and five grandchildren.
      