
        Duncan Sterling Jr., co-founder of a major New York securities firm, a civic leader on Long Island's North Shore and a horticulturist and yachtsman, died on Sunday at the Presbyterian Nursing Home in Woodbury, L.I. He was 86 and lived in Bayville.
        He suffered a stroke a few months ago and was in failing health thereafter, his family said.
        Mr. Sterling and Oliver R. Grace founded Sterling Grace & Company, an investment firm, in 1936. The business eventually had holdings in hundreds of corporations and assets in the hundreds of millions of dollars. It was sold in 1989, but Mr. Sterling kept an office and traded securities until his stroke. Mr. Grace died last year.
        Elected to the first of his three terms as mayor of Bayville in 1962, Mr. Sterling was in the forefront of the fight against the Long Island Sound bridge proposed by Robert Moses, the planner, with the support of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. To many residents, the Bayville-to-Rye bridge and causeway sounded like the death knell for Long Island's fabled Gold Coast as they knew it.
        The outspoken Mayor Sterling called the bridge "a rape of Bayville" and in 1972 compared the project to "the carpet bombing of the B-52's on Hanoi." Mr. Moses's plan was not carried out.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Sterling was a 1928 graduate of Yale University. He began his Wall Street career in 1931 as a general partner in the securities firm of Van Wyck & Sterling. Avid Yachtsman
        He became an accomplished sailor and racer in the 1920's and 1930's and with his favorite sloop, Falcon, won many trophies. During World War II, he served in the Pacific as a lieutenant commander in the United States Naval reserve.
        He continued to compete for the Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club of Center Island into his 70's. A former treasurer of the club, he was its senior member at his death. He was a past trustee of the Browning School, from which he graduated, and a former council member of the C. W. Post Center of Long Island University.
        Mr. Sterling became a serious horticulturist in the early 1950's. He often worked in his greenhouses in the early morning and the late evening and spent entire weekends under glass with his recognized collection of orchids and other plants. He helped organize shows and was a past president of the Men's Garden Club of New York, the Long Island Orchid Society and the Matinecock Orchid Society.
        The notion that plants respond to sweet talk and music amused him. "I talk to my plants," he once told an interviewer. "I tell them if they don't bloom well, I'll throw them out and they'll die."
        Mr. Sterling's wife of 55 years, Natalie Kountze Sterling, died five years ago. In 1989 he married Elsie Benkhard, who survives. Also surviving are a son, Duncan 3d, of Bayville; a brother, Bruce of Syosset, L.I.; a stepson, Christopher Clarke of Roslyn, L.I.; a stepdaughter, Phyllis Townsend of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      