
        Robert R. Williams, the commander of the submarine that rescued George Bush when the Japanese shot down his bomber in World War II, died Thursday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Rockville, Md.
        The cause was pneumonia as a complication of emphysema, his family said.
        Captain Williams, a career officer in the Navy, retired in 1960 with decorations that included a Silver Star and a commendation from the National Research Council.
        His rescue of Mr. Bush, the future President and Commander in Chief, occurred a few minutes before noon on Sept. 2, 1944, in the Pacific Ocean off the Bonin Islands, a few hundred miles south of Tokyo.
        Mr. Bush, then a lieutenant junior grade, was flying an Avenger torpedo plane from the carrier San Jacinto in a bombing raid on a radio station on Chichi Jima Island. After ground fire struck his plane, Lieutenant Bush bailed out just before it crashed.
        About 10 miles away, the submarine Finback was on patrol. On receiving a message about the crash, Captain Williams ordered the Finback to the scene, where Lieutenant Bush was rescued from his emergency raft. The plane's two other crew members died in the mission. Contact Renewed
        When Mr. Bush became Vice President, he renewed contact with Captain Williams by writing to him, said Captain Williams's wife, Rose. Mr. Bush also invited the Williamses to the 40th anniversary celebration of the rescue and to his inauguration as President, but Captain Williams's illness prevented him from attending.
        Captain Williams, a native of Syracuse, aspired to join the Navy as a teen-ager, when he enlisted in the reserves while in high school. After graduating from the Naval Academy in 1934, he joined the submarine division, serving on the Flounder and the Tuna before commanding the Finback.
        After the war he was stationed in Jerusalem with the United Nations force and later worked at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington on the early design for the Polaris missile submarine.
        He graduated from the Canadian National Defense College, commanded the ammunition ship Ranier and served as the administrative officer at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Rose Veirs Abert; two daughters, Rose A. Windle, of Gaithersburg, Md., and Sally W. Drew, of Olney, Md.; three sons, Robert R. 3d, of Rockville, Roger B., of Germantown, Md., and Thomas H., of Torrance, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
      