
        Buell A. Nesbett, who headed the Alaska Supreme Court immediately after statehood and directed the start-up of the new state's judiciary, died Tuesday at a daughter's home in Anchorage. He was 83 and moved back to Anchorage in June after living in retirement near San Diego.
        The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported.
        Justice Nesbett was named Chief Justice in 1959, when Alaska became a state, by Gov. William A. Egan. He retired in 1971 after being injured in an airplane accident.
        The justice, who practiced law in Anchorage for 14 years before his appointment, headed the three-member Supreme Court and was the senior figure in the 49th state's judicial system, which in 1960 had 62 other judges in appellate, trial and magistrates' courts.
        The State Supreme Court had the task of making the new system function. Justice Nesbett worked overtime and came in for praise when the system began operating as a unit in 1960. That was almost two years ahead of the date specified by Congress in Alaska's Statehood Act for the orderly transition of the courts from territorial to statehood status.
        The judges in the new state court system were a colorful mixture of trained lawyers, Eskimo matriarchs and Indian villagers. Some of the new judges spent a week in New Jersey observing various courts in operation.
        Alaska's State Superior Courts inherited a backlog of felony cases from the old territorial courts that exceeded 2,000 cases in Anchorage -- some of them five or six years old -- and 1,000 in Fairbanks. In their first six months, the new Superior Courts managed to dispose of more than 1,000 of the old cases.
        Justice Nesbett was born in New Mexico, earned his law degree from the University of San Francisco in 1940 and won the Bronze Star while serving in the Navy in World War II.
        While practicing law from 1945 to 1959 in Anchorage, he was a magistrate in 1946 and 1947 and a bankruptcy court referee from 1948 to 1952.
        The justice is survived by his wife, Barbara; two sons, Raymond and Walter, both of Anchorage; four daughters, Marianne Wieland, Barbara Sjoden, Linda Mortensen and Elizabeth Lake, all of Anchorage, and 11 grandchildren.
      