
        Dr. Kenneth V. MacKenzie, a Navy scientist for more than 30 years who took part in dives into the deepest areas of the oceans and was a pioneer of anti-submarine warfare technology, died on Tuesday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 82.
        A daughter, Kay Mighell of Seattle, said that the cause was Parkinson's disease and that he had died at a nursing home.
        Dr. MacKenzie's career as an oceanographer and physicist started at a time when the ocean depths were beginning to be explored as areas from which missiles might be launched by submarines that would then be subject to attack.
        He helped to develop and extend underwater sound propagation, subsurface magnetic surveying, oceanic acoustical detection and undersea surveillance, all crucial elements of submarine warfare. Deep Ocean Dives
        For his research he made more than 50 dives in bathyscaphs and midget submarines. Starting in 1960, he was among a group of researchers who made dives as deep as 35,000 feet in an underwater trench off Guam aboard the bathyscaph Trieste 1. In later years he took part in deep diving expeditions with the vessels Trieste 2, Deepstar-4000 and NR-1.
        In 1963, he participated in several unsuccessful attempts to find the hull of the Thresher, the nuclear submarine that was lost in 8,000 feet of water 220 miles east of Boston. The wreck was found a year later.
        Dr. MacKenzie began his career in underwater research in 1941 with the Puget Sound Magnetic Survey. He became the chief scientist for the Navy's deep submergence program in San Diego in 1962 and went on to postings at other Navy laboratories, including the Naval Oceanographic Office in Washington. He contributed more than 100 papers to scientific and technical journals.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane, of La Jolla, and, in addition to Mrs. Mighell, three other children by a previous marriage: Jesse Jean Harding, also of Seattle, Robert B. MacKenzie of Salinas, Calif., and Kenneth D. MacKenzie of Lawrence, Kan. He leaves nine grandchildren.
      