
        Irving R. Wisch, who learned to milk cows as a boy at his family's dairy in Brooklyn and grew up to head the milk industry in metropolitan New York, died on Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Boca Raton, Fla., and Westport, Conn.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        For nearly 50 years, Mr. Wisch led the industry in various posts. He was president of the New York Milk Industry Council and the Milk Handlers and Processors Association, director of the Milk Industry Foundation, chairman of the Greater New York Milk Dealers Association and the Greater New York and Northern New Jersey Milk Dealers Labor Committee, editor of the Metropolitan Dairy Institute Digest, counsel to the Independent Milk Marketers and labor counsel to the Metropolitan Ice Cream Manufacturers.
        He also served on advisory panels for three New York governors and in other governmental and industry organizations.
        In labor negotiations between management and Teamster officials representing thousands of milk deliverers, Mr. Wisch was the chief bargainer for the companies.
        Several times strikes erupted, lasting from a few days to weeks. The walkouts created havoc for farmers and disrupted the flow of millions of quarts of milk a day to the city and surrounding communities. Mr. Wisch was a central figure in the settlements, which sometimes entailed intervention by the Mayor.
        Monopoly issues were repeatedly raised against the industry. He was among the people and companies named in state antitrust suits and a 1967 indictment by a Manhattan grand jury alleging a conspiracy to fix prices, allocate customers and reduce competition. A prosecutor said Mr. Wisch and a union chief were "principal ringleaders and major movers." He pleaded guilty in 1971 and was fined $10,000.
        Since retiring from full-time service to the industry several years ago, he remained as a consultant, including during a strike in 1989.
        Mr. Wisch was born in Brooklyn, where his family started its dairy business in 1888. The family later owned Hegeman's Farms in Queens.
        After graduating from Alfred University and Brooklyn Law School, he began practicing law and running businesses, including an oil refinery and a screen-testing studio.
        During the 1940's he returned to the family dairy and became its president.  He later was also the co-owner of Holland Farms.
        Mr. Wisch helped raise money for and contributed to Jewish, medical and other causes.
        Surviving are his wife of 39 years, the former Lynne Deutch; three sons, Steven of Manhattan, Jeffrey of Glenwood Springs, Colo., and Kenneth of Los Angeles; a daughter, Cindy Lynn Wisch di Gesu of Trumbull, Conn.; a brother, Richard of Boynton Beach, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      