
        Dr. Seymour Fogel, a molecular biologist and geneticist long associated with the City University of New York and the University of California at Berkeley, died on Friday in Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley. He was 74 and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Fogel was chairman of Berkeley's department of genetics from 1969 to 1980 and continued his work at the university until a few years ago.
        "Sy will be remembered for his seminal experiments on the genetics of yeast, involving the mechanisms of exchange between DNA molecules during sexual reproduction," said Prof. James Fristrom, his successor as department head. Genetics of Reproduction
        Yeasts are among the simplest organisms to reproduce sexually, and Dr. Fogel's research with them helped advance the understanding of the genetics of human reproduction and evolution. He also contributed significantly to the modern approach to genetics.
        In 1982, he led a team that found a relatively cheap, natural process to increase the output of useful chemicals produced by gene-splicing. It harnessed a potent gene in brewer's yeast to produce important proteins in larger quantities. The process found uses in pharmaceuticals as well as in baking and brewing.
        Dr. Fogel received his early training as a corn geneticist at New York University and conducted research on the plant before he switched to yeast after he found his corn patch in Brooklyn paved over one day.
        A native of Middle Village, Queens, he graduated from Queens College and earned a Ph.D. at the University of Missouri in 1946, when he returned to Queens College as an instructor. From 1950 until 1969 he taught at Brooklyn College, advancing to professor and heading the Ph.D. program. Before accepting the chairmanship at Berkeley he also served as dean of graduate studies at C.U.N.Y.
        Dr. Fogel, a widower, is survived by his companion, Julie Welch, and a brother, Edward, of Middle Village.
      