
        Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, an authority on the plants of tropical islands in the Pacific, Western Atlantic and Indian oceans, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in Falls Church, Va. Dr. Fosberg was 85 and lived in Reston, Va.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Suzanne Ripley.
        Dr. Fosberg, a botanist emeritus at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, published more than 600 papers on plant classification, plant distribution, ecology and conservation, and contributed to many scientific books.
        He was also co-editor of "The Flora of Ceylon," of which eight volumes have been published. He was the founder and editor of The Atoll Research Bulletin, a forum on island biology published since 1951. He was a founder and board member of the Rachel Carson Council and helped found the Nature Conservancy, an environmental group. Wartime Mission
        A colleague, Dr. Mary McCutcheon, , said, "The fund of knowledge on the Pacific Basin that Ray Fosberg contained in his head was unparalleled."
        Dr. Fosberg was born near Spokane, Wash., in 1908 and graduated in 1930 from Pomona College in California. He earned a Ph.D. in botany from the University of Pennsylvania in 1939.
        In 1940, he joined the United States Department of Agriculture. During World War II, Dr. Fosberg traveled through South America in search of wild cinchona trees. At that time the trees were the only source of quinine, which was used to treat malaria, and Japanese forces had seized most of the cinchona plantations in Asia.
        From 1950 to 1965, he served as a botanist for the United States Geological Survey and contributed to many plant studies, particularly in the Pacific. He joined the National Museum of Natural History in 1966 and served until 1978 as a special adviser on tropical botany. He continued to work at the museum until shortly before his death.
        Dr. Fosberg received many honors, including the Gregory Medal from the Bishop Museum in Honolulu and the Edward Browning Award from the Smithsonian.
        His first wife, Violet Fosberg, died in 1975.
        In addition to his wife, Suzanne, Dr. Fosberg is survived by four daughters from his first marriage, Charlen Kyle of Falls Church, Ilima Sylva of Boulder, Colo., Karol Bradford of Woodstock, Va., and Hildegard Fosberg of Hatfield, Mass.; two brothers, Maynard, of Moscow, Idaho, and L. Marion, of Turlock, Calif.; two stepchildren, Leila Ripley and Ranjit Ripley of Reston; six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      