
        Makaza Kumanyika, a civil rights leader in New York City in the 1960's when his name was Herbert Callender, died on Sept. 22 at his home in East Orange, N. J. He was 60.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Kumanyika helped lead civil rights protests as chairman of the Bronx chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality, beginning in 1963 with demonstrations against the White Castle hamburger chain, which the group asserted had discriminatory hiring practices.
        A year later, he and a coalition of other protest leaders threatened to tie up the city with a series of huge traffic jams and a subway tie-up to disrupt the opening of the 1964 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens.
        But the "stall in" never occurred and Mr. Kumanyika said later that it was mostly a bluff. Clash With Commissioner
        A month earlier, the Police Commissioner at the time, Michael J. Murphy, denounced Mr. Kumanyika, along with Malcolm X and the Harlem rent-strike leader, Jesse Gray, as "lusting for power" and vowed he would not allow them "to turn New York City into a battleground."
        The denunciation came 10 days after Mr. Kumanyika handcuffed himself to the bars of a door outside Commissioner Murphy's office at Police Headquarters in a protest against what he said was police brutality.
        Later that year, he was arrested and committed to the psychiatric wing of Bellevue Hospital Center for trying to make a citizen's arrest of Mayor Robert F. Wagner for allocating public funds to projects that allowed racial discrimination.  Helping Poor Farmers
        Mr. Kumanyika, who went on to graduate from Cornell University in 1977, shifted his concern to poor black farmers here and abroad, heading the Federation of Southern Cooperatives.
        He ultimately settled in Essex County, N. J., where he was director of the Irvington Neighborhood Development Corporation, a staff member of the Chad School in Newark and most recently director of East Orange's Clean & Green Center.
        He also was the founder of the Urban Center for Public/Private Partnerships, which offered technical assistance to grass-roots organizations in Essex County.
        Eleven days before his death, Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey proclaimed Sept. 11 as Makaza Kumanyika Day.
        Mr. Kumanyika is survived by his wife, Kathleen Mudiwa Kumanyika; two sons, Herbert Biwa Callender of Yonkers and Chenjerai Kumanyika of State College, Pa.; two daughters, Bayo Callender of Brooklyn and Meredith Kilolo Kumanyika of East Orange; a sister, Bernice Callender Brewington of North Carolina, and two granddaughters.
        A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. on Saturday at St. Matthews African Methodist Episcopal Church in East Orange.
      