
        Peter De Vries, a writer who was best known as a comic novelist and as a contributor to The New Yorker, died yesterday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter,, Jan.
        Renata Adler, a novelist and a staff writer for The New Yorker, said yesterday: "He was one of the very few people who were truly funny. In his best work, he made people laugh aloud."
        Mr. De Vries was a staff contributor to The New Yorker from 1944 to 1987, and for some time afterward served as a consultant. He also wrote two dozen books over the years.
        The critic John Gross -- looking back over Mr. De Vries's career as a novelist in a review of the picaresque novel "Peckham's Marbles" (G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1986), about a novelist addicted to wordplay -- gave this explanation of his humor in The New York Times in 1986:
        "The author still remains in a class by himself among contemporary comic writers; an unsurpassed connoisseur of non sequiturs and wild misunderstandings. He is to be relished as much for the skill with which he deploys a recurring expletive -- 'ah hoo boy' -- as he is for his set-pieces." 'You Know You're Done'
        Jan De Vries said deteriorating health had been a cause of his cutting back his work for The New Yorker, and that after 1986 he had done no writing "except eulogies for friends, and a very occasional letter." "I asked him why he wasn't working," she recalled, "and he simply said, 'When you know you're done, you're done."
        In the preceding years and decades, he showed virtuosity in his writing, which was spiced with pungent images: in his 1984 novel "The Prick of Noon" (published by Little, Brown), he likened a hamburger to "a hockey puck on a bun."
        Wisecracks were another longtime art form for Mr. De Vries, in his novels and in other realms. Most of his published writings for The New Yorker were portions of his comic novels, but he helped regularly with the magazine's cartoons, suggesting improvements in captions and other changes, and sometimes helping to develop a cartoon idea.
        The magazine's art editor, Lee Lorenz, called Mr. De Vries "a very serious-minded man, a very serious professional. He began his career as a poet, and he had a special ear for language." Transatlantic Career
        Mr. De Vries had devoted readers on both sides of the Atlantic, and he was particularly esteemed by the British. But his readership was somewhat modest in size compared with the audiences of big-time best-seller writers: by the early 80's, the sales of the hard-cover edition of a characteristic De Vries novel would not exceed 25,000 books.
        Mr. De Vries was born in Chicago, the son of Joost De Vries and the former Henrietta Eldersveld. He grew up in Chicago and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., in 1931.
        "When I began to write," he recalled years later, "it was almost by mutual consent. My parents never read anything that I wrote."
        He went on to be an editor of a Chicago community newspaper, a freelance writer, and in 1938 an associate editor of Poetry Magazine in Chicago and then, in 1942, a co-editor of that magazine before he began his association with The New Yorker. Drew on New Yorker Days
        There he started out in the poetry department on a part-time basis, which left him much time for writing. Then he began his many years of work for the art department, which handles the cartoons.
        Among his books, an early success was "The Tunnel of Love" (1954), which was about the hilariously mixed-up doings of an art editor at a New Yorkeresque magazine.
        Three decades later, in 1983, Mr. De Vries was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
        He married Katinka Loeser, a poet and writer of short stories -- many of which appeared in The New Yorker -- in 1943. She died in 1991.
        In addition to his daughter, of Media, Pa., Mr. De Vries is survived by two sons, Jon, of Manhattan, and Derek, of Santa Monica, Calif., and two grandsons.
        Another daughter, Emily, died of leukemia in childhood and is remembered in Miss Loeser's story "Whose Little Girl Are You?" and in Mr. De Vries's 1962 book "The Blood of the Lamb."
      