
        William F. R. Ballard, an architect who was chairman of the New York City Planning Commission from 1963 to 1966, died on Friday in a London hospital. He was 88.
        The cause was a stroke that followed hip replacement surgery, said his son, Robert.
        Mr. Ballard served as head of the commission at a time when the city was undergoing fast-moving and significant changes. Under his leadership, the planning commission played an increasingly influential role in deciding how the city would rebuild and retain its essential architectural character.
        Mr. Ballard was appointed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in recognition of his work as co-author of a "Plan for Rezoning the City of New York" in 1953, the first comprehensive zoning reform in the city in 45 years. Years of Stormy Clashes
        His appointment also recognized his innovative plans for a number of low-rent housing projects following World War II and his civic leadership as chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council.
        What followed were nearly four years of political and governmental clashes of competing developmental interests. The stormiest ones involved a continuing conflict between Mr. Ballard and Robert Moses, with Mr. Ballard opposing many of Mr. Moses's most ambitious projects, such as a bridge spanning Long Island Sound.
        He also challenged environmentalists who opposed the increasing use of cars and trucks in Manhattan. "The better and fuller life includes the free use of automobiles," he said after being sworn in as chairman in 1963.
        A year later, he said a proposal to build public housing in Central Park was "patently absurd."
        One of his last major projects as commission chairman was an ambitious plan for lower Manhattan, from Canal Street to the Battery, that included a panoply of parks, waterfront green spaces, and skyscraper-enclosed plazas.
        At his retirement in 1966, Princeton University, where he received a bachelor's degree and, in 1932, a Master of Fine Arts, gave Mr. Ballard its annual Woodrow Wilson Award for "significant service to the nation." Retirement in London
        From 1966 until his death, Mr. Ballard lived in retirement in London.
        Mr. Ballard was born in Morristown, N.J., on April 1, 1905. He went to the Kent School in Connecticut before attending Princeton. During World War II, he was a lieutenant colonel in North Africa and Italy, winning a Bronze Star.
        At the time of his appointment, Mr. Ballard was a member of Ballard Todd Associates, an architectual firm that was planning the vast housing project that replaced the Polo Grounds in Upper Manhattan and the master plan for the State University at New Paltz.
        Mr. Ballard was the great-grandson of Theodore Fitz-Randolph, Governor of New Jersey from 1869 to 1872. He was divorced from his first wife, Lucinda Ballard, a costume designer who died on Aug. 20, and from his second wife, Martha Moore Muzzey, who died in 1945.
        His third wife, Bettina Hill Wilson, the fashion editor of Vogue Magazine, died in 1961.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, Pamela Clark, whom he married in 1962; a son, Robert F. R. Ballard, and a daughter, Wendy F. R. Ballard, both of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 7, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary on Sept. 29 about William Ballard, an architect who guided New York City planning from 1963 to 1966 and who died on Sept. 27, referred incorrectly to his second wife. She is Martha Moore Ballard, the former Martha Moore Muzzey, and she survives him. The couple were divorced in 1945.
      