
        Daniel Gutman, a legal counsel to Gov. Averell Harriman of New York, a dean of the New York Law School and the founder of a night court for small claims in New York City's Municipal Court, died yesterday at his home in Carmel in Putnam County, N.Y. He was 92.
        The cause was not immediately clear, but he had suffered a series of small strokes, said Arnold H. Graham, a friend and formerly the law school's vice dean.
        Mr. Gutman, a Democrat, was on the Municipal Court from 1943 to 1954, counsel to Governor Harriman from 1954 to 1958 and dean of the law school, an independent school in Manhattan that was founded in 1891, from 1959 to 1968. In his years as a Harriman aide, Mr. Gutman played a key role in waterfront affairs and conducted talks with representatives of the Waterfront Commission and the International Longshoreman's Association. He also served in 1958 as chairman of the state Democratic platform committee.
        As dean of the law school, he introduced a course in English meant for students who were found to have trouble expressing themselves well. Served in Legislature
        A native New Yorker, he attended Boys High School in Brooklyn and graduated cum laude from Brooklyn Law School in 1922. In the 1930's he was an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, a special Assistant United States Attorney General and a Kings County Assistant District Attorney.
        Mr. Gutman was an Assemblyman and then a State Senator from Kings County from 1938 until 1943, when he was first elected as a justice of the Municipal Court.
        In 1954, he was named by Mayor Robert F. Wagner as president justice of the Municipal Court. In that job, he began a night court for small claims. He said a person suing for $100 could probably not afford a day off from work to press a claim. He resigned later that year to become Governor Harriman's counsel.
        After stepping down as head of the law school, he headed a 30-month Ford Foundation project that provided seminars and lectures for new judges.
        In his later years he was also a hearing officer, trial commissioner or referee for various city agencies and an arbitrator. In addition, he served on a temporary state commission on the regulation of lobbyists.
        Mr. Gutman was a former president of the Federal Bar Association of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
        His wife, the former Rosamond Lease Downer, whom he married in 1954, died in 1991.
      