
        Bruce B. Teicholz, who helped save many Jews from the Nazis in World War II and later became a real-estate owner, manager and broker in the New York area, died on Tuesday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. His family said he was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, and he had been in ill health for a few years, said his son, Tom.
        At his death, Mr. Teicholz (pronounced TIE-holtz) was a partner in Woodhole Management Company, a Manhattan-based real-estate concern.
        Mr. Teicholz, who was born Bronislaw Teichholz, grew up in the Jewish community of Lvov, a city that was then part of Poland. Executives of the national office of the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish communal organization, said this week that he later helped save thousands of Hungarian Jews from the Holocaust. After the war, from a base in Vienna, he helped thousands of Jewish refugees from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland and Romania to immigrate to what is now Israel.
        After Hitler's army invaded Poland, Mr. Teicholz, an executive in an export-import company, took part in rescue and relief efforts for Jewish refugees. His son said he also went into the countryside and became a partisan fighter before making his way to Budapest.
        Rabbi Frederick E. Werbell and Thurston Clarke wrote in their 1982 book, "Lost Hero: the Mystery of Raoul Wallenberg," that Mr. Teicholz formed a Jewish underground group in Budapest that "smuggled Jews into Rumania, built secret bunkers in which Jews could survive a final fascist pogrom and stole and forged baptismal certificates" and Swedish and other identity documents to protect Jews who carried them.
        The authors wrote that Mr. Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who also helped Hungarian Jews escape the Holocaust, "secretly approved of Teicholz's operation."
        Mr. Teicholz came to the United States in 1952.
        His parents and his eight brothers and sisters perished in the Holocaust. Besides his son, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, the former Eva Saar, whom he married in 1953; a daughter, Debbie Guedalia of Demarest, N.J., and a granddaughter.
      