
        Vincent G. Dethier, a biology professor at the University of Massachusetts and an expert on the behavior of insects, died on Wednesday at the Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton. He was 78.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1986, Professor Dethier became the first director of the university's neuroscience and behavior program.  Although he was primarily a neurophysiologist, he also worked in the fields of entomology, ecology and biochemistry.
        He was one of the country's foremost experts on flies and how they function. One of his most popular books was "To Know a Fly," a paperback introduction for students on the analysis of nervous systems, using insects as examples.
        He was also known in scientific circles for his studies of plant-feeding caterpillars and studies of the chemical senses of insects.
        He was the author of many books and articles. He received the John Burroughs Medal for Distinguished Nature Writing for his 1992 book, "Crickets and Katydids, Concerts and Solos" (Harvard University Press). The Bored Salamander
        In "The Ecology of a Summer House," a book published in 1984 by the University of Massachusetts Press, Professor Dethier extols, among other things, the virtues and the mysteries of a no-see-um. "Here," he wrote, "is a creature that carries out the same natural functions as we do ourselves, and it is too small to be seen clearly!" Carpenter ants, he found, carve their galleries in "rococo splendor," and the life of a salamander, he decided, "must be one of excruciating boredom."
        Professor Dethier held the Gilbert Woodside chair in biology at the University of Massachusetts, where he began teaching in 1975.
        He was born in Boston in 1915 and graduated from Harvard in 1936. He also earned his master's degree and doctorate from Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, Lois Evelyn; two sons, Jehan Vincent, of Charleston, S.C., and Paul Georges, of Amherst; a sister, Frances Cannon of Cooperstown, N.Y., and two brothers, Gerard, of Costa Mesa, Calif., and Bernard, of Blue Hill, Me.
      