
        John Butler, a prolific and popular ballet choreographer, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Melvin Dwork, a friend.
        Mr. Butler was best known for his pas de deux "After Eden," a portrait of Adam and Eve as two restless, sensuous lovers who cannot survive together or apart. The dance, which offers its performers a considerable variety of dramatic interpretations, has been performed by an extraordinary range of ballet and modern-dance companies in the United States and Europe.
        "Mr. Butler's symbolic images are so strong and so psychologically apt here that he succeeds almost beyond belief in taking a specific emotional situation and generalizing it into a commentary on the universal human condition," Anna Kisselgoff wrote in a 1972 review of "After Eden" in The New York Times. "It is a ballet where the dramatic expressiveness of modern dance and the fluidity of the ballet idiom are combined with remarkable results."
        Other prominent ballets were the passionate, sprawling "Carmina Burana," the dramatically charged "According to Eve," and "Portrait of Billie," a powerful look at the life and death of Billie Holiday that was a vehicle for the dramatic gifts of the dancer Carmen de Lavallade. Ballet and Broadway
        Mr. Butler was born in Greenwood, Miss., to two railroad workers. He moved to New York in his late teens to study ballet, supporting himself by teaching the ballroom dancing, at which he excelled. After training with Eugene Loring, he studied at the Martha Graham School and the School of American Ballet. He performed with the Martha Graham Dance Company from 1945 to 1955 in roles that included the Revivalist in "Appalachian Spring" and the Poetic Beloved in "Deaths and Entrances."
        He danced the role of Curly in the dream ballet in "Oklahoma!" on Broadway in 1943 before moving on to "On the Town" the following year. Other Broadway musicals included "Hollywood Pinafore" and "Inside U.S.A." He also danced in the M-G-M movie "Words and Music," which led to engagements in New York City nightclubs.
        Mr. Butler was also active in the late 1940's as a television choreographer for revues, "Omnibus," "Camera Three" and the NBC Opera Theater. He was commended for unusually imaginative and authoritative dance for television. His choreography for the first television production of Gian Carlo Menotti's "Amahl and the Night Visitors" in 1951 led to his engagement as choreographer for the New York City Opera. 'Flow of Dance' in Opera
        Once again, Mr. Butler was singled out for excelling in a field that was not generally known for skillful choreography.
        The dance critic Walter Terry described Mr. Butler's staging of the 1952 American stage premiere of the Bartok opera "Bluebeard's Castle," as "a new departure in opera ballet." "Actually, there is no ballet at all," Mr. Terry wrote. "There is instead the flow of dance, and as John Butler has directed this flow of action, purposefulness and dramatic power results."
        Mr. Butler worked with his own racially integrated company of dancers in the 1950's and frequently collaborated with Mr. Menotti. But he was best known as a freelance choreographer and consequently was considered by some critics to be underappreciated in his home country.
        Mr. Butler also created dances for the Metropolitan Opera and for companies that included the New York City Ballet, the Harkness Ballet, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Pennsylvania Ballet, and companies in Australia, Israel, the Netherlands, France and Germany. In 1975, he choreographed "Medea," the first new ballet created for Mikhail Baryshnikov after his defection.
        Mr. Butler received a Dance Magazine Award in 1965.
      