
        The Earl of Westmorland, a former chairman of the Sotheby Parke Bernet Group, the international auction company, died on Wednesday in Tetbury, England, near Bristol. He was 69 and had homes in London and the Bristol area.
        The Times of London said he had earlier suffered a paralyzing stroke.
        The Earl joined the company's board in 1965 and helped spur its growth in the United States and elsewhere. In 1980, when he became chairman, it had 17 offices in major capitals. He stepped down as chairman in 1982.
        Elegant and personable, he also served as a high aide to Queen Elizabeth II for more than 25 years.
        Lord Westmorland became a director of the newly formed Sotheby Parke Barnet Group in the year after Sotheby's, long a pillar of the British auction industry, acquired Parke Bernet, the American auction house on Madison Avenue in New York. He once said of his role at his company, "The real point of my job is to encourage the right people" to bring it their possessions for auction.
        Recalling his career, the British newspaper The Independent said last week, "Westmorland participated in the growth of the business in many areas, especially in Canada, the United States and South Africa." Stepped Aside After Slump
        But by mid-1982, sales in the international auction business had been depressed by a slump in the art market. The company was in financial difficulties, and the Earl resigned as chairman after announcing the appointment of a new management team. He remained on the board. The company is now known as Sotheby's International.
        The Earl's given name David Anthony Thomas Fane; he was the elder son of the 14th Earl of Westmorland and the former Diana Capel, a daughter of the fourth Baron Ribblesdale. He was educated at Eton and Sandhurst. He served in World War II and inherited his father's title in 1948.
        He married Jane Findlay, daughter of Lieut. Col. Sir Roland Lewis Findlay, a baronet, in 1950. They had two sons and a daughter. His heir is his son Lord Burghersh.
      