
        Robert S. Josephy, an influential freelance book designer who became a leading fruit grower, environmentalist and political advocate in Connecticut, died on Saturday at his home in Hamden. He was 90.
        For three decades, beginning in the 1920's, Mr. Josephy was one of the leading freelance book designers in the country. His taste was reflected in the style of many books published in the 1920's and 30's.
        He later became one of New England's leading fruit growers, expanding his farm in Bethel, Blue Jay Orchards, to 140 acres from the 50 acres he bought in 1934. For many years he combined both careers with a strong political interest. He ran unsuccessfully as a liberal Democrat for the Connecticut Legislature twice, in 1944 and 1986.
        In 1948, he was vice chairman of the Connecticut People's Party, which supported Henry A. Wallace for President. An Advocate for Farms
        During his later years as a grower and member of the Connecticut Board of Agriculture, he was in the forefront of efforts to slow the steady conversion of the state's open farms and woodlands to development.
        In an article in The New York Times in 1978, he wrote: "Properly maintained farms provide scenic pleasures at no cost to the public. They offer opportunities for disposing of urban wastes. They offer sites for outdoor recreation in some seasons. And by their existence, they give our urban majority valuable, even if limited, experience with a way of life that was the everyday environment of most of our forebears."
        Last year, at 89, he completed his autobiography, "Taking Part: a 20th Century Life," published by the University of Iowa Press.
        Mr. Joseph was born on July 11, 1903, to a prosperous family in Far Rockaway, Queens. After military school in New Jersey, he was a designer at Alfred A. Knopf for five years before going out on his own.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha, who lives in Southbury; three daughters, Maria Schoolman of Washington, D.C., Christina Josephy of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Ellen Josephy of San Francisco; a stepson, Michael McCleery of Branford, Conn.; a sister, Mary Fisher of Chappaqua, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      