
        Joseph G. Smith, a psychologist, a leading expert in consumer research and chairman of a New York market research company, Oxtoby-Smith Inc., died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Lido Beach, L.I.
        The cause was cancer, the hospital said.
        Mr. Smith helped NBC to choose a peacock as its television symbol at a time when most televisions still had black-and-white screens. He reasoned that a peacock looked better without color than any other proposed symbol.
        In 1991 the Market Research Council elected him to its hall of fame.
        Thirty-seven years ago he joined with Toby Oxtoby, a colleague at the time at the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., to establish Oxtoby-Smith.
        He said often in recent years that consumers in general were no longer so predictable as they once were and were harder to track. Understanding Consumers
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1983, he said, "We operate on the view that we can uncover the reasons behind consumer choices and that the manufacturer or advertiser who understands these reasons has an important edge on his competitor who doesn't."
        Mr. Smith was born in Brooklyn. He received a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Iowa after interrupting his academic career to serve as an Army sergeant in the Burma campaign in World War II. He served as president of the division of consumer psychology of the American Psychological Association and was co-author of a textbook, "Rorschach Interpretation: Advanced Techique."
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Phyllis; three sons, David, of Lido Beach, Jonathan, of Washington Township, N.J., and Adam, of Manhattan; two daughters, Rebecca Smith Bindman of San Francisco and Marissa Smith of Lido Beach; four grandchildren, and a sister, Shirley Hein, of New Canaan, N.Y.
        Funeral services will be held at 12:45 P.M. Sunday at the Boulevard-Riverside Chapel in Hewlett, L.I.
      