
        The Suffolk County Medical Examiner today confirmed the death of Norman Jaffe, an architect who had been missing and presumed drowned for more than a month.
        Mr. Jaffe, 61, of Bridgehampton, was last seen Aug. 19 before an early-morning swim.
        Family members believed "within the hour" of his disappearance that Mr. Jaffe had drowned, a family spokeswoman said today. The police had been investigating his disappearance as a missing-person case.
        The Medical Examiner's office confirmed Mr. Jaffe's death after examining a pelvic bone that washed ashore on Sept. 11 about a quarter-mile from where Mr. Jaffe had gone swimming.
        Detective Sgt. Robert C. Flood of the Southampton Town Police said today that forensic investigators had identified the bone as Mr. Jaffe's through X-rays and recent medical records.
        "We are discontinuing our investigation," he said. A Renowned Craftsman
        Mr. Jaffe was a residential architect whose contemporary style is imprinted on homes and hideaways from Long Island to California.
        Working in Manhattan and, since the 1970's, in Bridgehampton, Mr. Jaffe achieved international renown with his single-home designs. But he was a well-rounded craftsman whose signature appeared on urban residential complexes, office towers and industrial buildings as well.
        A prime example of his inventiveness is 565 Fifth Avenue, the 29-story Manhattan office building recently completed at 46th Street. Paul Goldberger, writing in The New York Times in July, welcomed the building as a sign that despite the modernist glass boxes of the recent past, there was hope for the avenue yet.
        The building wears its modernism gracefully and sustains the spirit of the avenue, Mr. Goldberger wrote, and is "a light, almost shimmering building of glass and steel." It differs from earlier monoliths, he said, in that it is "richly textured and finely detailed," with its main structure set back a few stories up to admit light and openness to the street.
        Mr. Jaffe was the design architect, in association with the firm of Emery Roth & Sons, production architects. Honored by Architects' Group
        A native of Chicago, Mr. Jaffe trained at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students League of New York. He also studied at the University of Illinois and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1956. His work was exhibited at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington in 1991, when he was inducted as a fellow of the American Institute of Architects. Many other institutions in the United States and abroad displayed his work, and virtually every professional and popular home magazine featured it, too.
        In 1977, the New York Chapter of the A.I.A. gave him an award for a remote oceanside weekend house on eastern Long Island. He created it as a wooden structure with rambling gables, alluding to the older shingle-style houses that dot the landscape of the Hamptons.
        By 1979, Mr. Jaffe said he had to turn down 9 out of 10 potential clients entering his offices. Well-known and popular, he could choose whom to work for. A scenic backdrop challenging his ingenuity could be his criterion.
        "An interesting site gives you something to respond to visually," he said.  His projects included homes on a Utah mountainside and by a Minnesota ravine.
        He contributed to such charities as medical relief operations in East Africa and on Long Island's East End. He also donated his professional services to religious and other causes, having recently completed the design for a children's hospital in Croatia.
        Mr. Jaffe was noted for the Gates of Grove at the Jewish Center of the Hamptons in East Hampton. A wood-and-glass structure set in a grove of trees, it won awards as an example of contemporary religious design.
        Services for Mr. Jaffe will be held at the synagogue at 1 P.M. Sunday.
        Mr. Jaffe's first wife, Barbara Cochran Jaffe, died in 1965. He is survived by his wife, Sarah Stahl Jaffe, and their sons Will Isaac, 7, and Max, 4. Also surviving is a son by his previous marriage, Miles, a design and management consultant who will be a principal in continuing his father's architectural practice.
      