
        Morris L. Levinson, a retired industrialist and lifelong philanthropist, died yesterday at his summer home in Townshend, Vt. He was 79.
        The cause was lung cancer, said a spokesman for the family.
        Mr. Levinson, whose permanent residence was in Palm Beach, Fla., was a past chairman of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York, the largest Jewish humanitarian aid organization at the time. He was also the organization's president in 1971 and played an important role in negotiations leading to its merger with the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. After the merger, he became a vice president of the new organization.
        His gifts to U.J.A. over the years totaled "many millions," a spokesman for the organization said yesterday.
        At his death, he was a life trustee of the New School for Social Research, a board member of of the Baron de Hirsch Fund and of the Weizman Institute of Science in Israel. Studied at Wharton and Yale
        A native of Newburgh, N.Y., he graduated from the Wharton School of Finance and from the Yale University School of Law.
        He practiced law for four years before joining the Office of Price Administration in Washington, where he was lead lawyer in the Food Price Division.
        In subsequent years, he became the president of Kaywoodie Company, the world's largest manufacturer of tobacco pipes, and served on the governing board of Nabisco from 1974 to 1984.
        As chairman of the Jewish Agency's rural development program in Israel, he continued and extended his philanthropic involvement in the late 1970's and early 80's, raising funds for the resettlement of displaced Jews from Arab countries.
        He built the Morris and Barbara Levinson Technical School in Israel, and in 1991, Yale law School rededicated its newly renovated Morris L. Levinson auditorium in his honor.
        Mr. Levinson's first wife, Eveta Weingarten of Houston, Tex., died in 1964.
        He is survived by his wife of 29 years, the former Barbara Salvage, and six children: Adam, of New York City, Joshua, of Israel, Robert Machinist of Greenwich, Conn., John Machinist of White Plains, Judith Oppenheimer of New York and Nancy Silber of Philadelphia.
      