
        Bernard C. Smith Sr., a former State Senator and District Attorney for Suffolk County, died on Tuesday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Northport, L.I.
        The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, his family said. Mr. Smith, an outdoorsman and hunter, was vacationing with two of his sons at their summer retreat in the Catskills.
        In Albany he was remembered as a conservationist who played a role in founding the state's Department of Environmental Conservation.
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said in a tribute that Mr. Smith "will be remembered for his contribution to creating the Adirondack Park Agency."
        Mr. Smith, a Republican, practiced law in Northport for 44 years, working in corporate and environmental law as well as general litigation and appeals. He was a partner in the firm of Ingerman, Smith, Greenberg, Gross, Richmond, Heidelberger, Reich & Scricca. Served in Tank Battalion
        He was born in Barnesboro, Pa., and went to school in Northport. He was studying at Cornell University when war interrupted his education. He served as a lieutenant and platoon commander in a tank battalion in the Pacific theater.
        He then graduated in government from Cornell, where he also received his law degree in 1949. He was an assistant district attorney from 1951 to 1958, when he became chief assistant. While serving as District Attorney from 1962 to 1965, he joined his Nassau County counterpart in a drive against organized crime.
        Mr. Smith served in the State Senate from 1965 to 1978. Among other positions, he was chairman of the Conservation Committee. He also was a commissioner of the State Investigation Commission from 1978 to 1990. That year he lost a race for State Attorney General to Robert Abrams, who was the incumbent.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife of 44 years, Elizabeth (Betsy); five children, Bernard Jr., of Kings Park, L.I., Terry, of Madison, Wis., Craig, of Northport, Timothy, of Charleston, S.C., and Linda Ann, of Northport; a sister, Mary Robitaille Sanchez of St. James, L.I.; a brother, Lawrence L., of Northport, and seven grandchildren.
      