
        John Bowles, a former president of the Rexall Drug Company who introduced the concept of an old-fashioned American drug store to Eastern Europe and who encouraged voter registration in the United States, died on Saturday at Santa Ynes Valley Hospital in Solvang, Calif. He was 76.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        He lived in Los Angeles and the Santa Ynes Valley.
        Mr. Bowles became president of Rexall in 1955. Known as a born salesman and a strong advocate of human relations, he developed the idea of a one-cent sale. He also awarded the first Rexall franchise to a black pharmacist, in Los Angeles.
        In 1960, Mr. Bowles was commended by President Dwight D. Eisenhower at a White House ceremony for Rexall's voter registration campaign. Mr. Bowles said he had taken up the registration cause after he visited Moscow and was needled by a young Soviet guide for the relatively low voter turnout in the United States, which was then about 60 percent.
        "This burned me up," he said later. "But I also came back as something of a dedicated man."
        The same year, Mr. Bowles was commended for setting up a typical American drug store at the Poznan International Trade Fair in Poland.
        In 1963, he won a Horatio Alger Award for having achieved success through hard work, rising from a stock clerk to Rexall president.
        Born in North Carolina, Mr. Bowles graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1938. He served in World War II as a naval gunnery officer.
        In Southern California, he was an active horseman, leading Charros de Los Angeles, a group that had close ties with Mexico and Mexican-Americans. He also served for 10 years as president of Los Amigos del Pueblo de Los Angeles, a group with strong roots in preserving the city's Mexican-American customs.
        He was a member of the board of governors of the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, a board member of the Southwest Museum, and a trustee of the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He is survived by his wife, Norma Louise; three daughters, Luisa Kolla of San Francisco, Kelly Bowles Gray of College Park, Md., and Norma Elizabeth, of Los Angeles; a son, John, of Benares, India; one grandchild, and a brother, Richard, of Greensboro, N.C.
      