
        Henry Ringling North, a former owner and manager of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus founded by his uncles, died yesterday at a hospital in Switzerland. He was 83 and lived in Begnins, near Geneva.
        He died after a long illness, said his lawyer, Richard Cunningham.
        Mr. North and his older brother, John, ran the circus from 1936 to 1967. They revived its sagging fortunes, reclaiming ownership from creditors who had gained control during the Depression.
        Competing with movies and television, the brothers modernized the show, which once featured acts like Great Omi the Zebra Man, the Spotted Family of Madagascar and Thelma the Fat Girl, moving to more sophisticated entertainment.
        They also shifted the performances to indoor arenas, pulling up stakes on the canvas "big top" tent for the last time in 1956. That change drastically reduced costs, eliminating 900 jobs and shortening the circus train to 25 cars from 85.
        In 1957 the brothers staved off a stockholders' challenge from a rival faction of the family that accused them of mismanaging millions of dollars. Deferred to His Brother
        Mr. North, who served variously as vice president, treasurer, director and operations chief, deferred to his older brother, who was the president and chairman and the showman of the pair.
        "My brother is the boss; he deserves to be," he once said. But Mr. North kept a close hand on the business, recording the daily box office receipts in a little black book.
        He was especially fond of the circus's menagerie of giraffes, lions, tigers, elephants and other exotic beasts. When Gargantua, a 550-pound gorilla, died of tuberculosis in 1949, Mr. North said: "He was a great animal, a wonderful personality. We are very broken up about this."
        Mr. North chronicled his family's story in "The Circus Kings: Our Ringling Family Story" (Doubleday, 1960), written with Alden Hatch. A cover review in The New York Times Book Review described the book as an "intimate documentary of a restless, quarreling, affectionate, often vulgar, innately genteel, greedy and generous, tricky but honest, vividly imaginative clan."
        The original Ringling brothers started their show in the late 1800's. In 1908, the Ringlings took over P. T. Barnum's Barnum & Bailey Circus, then in 1919 combined the two operations. They dubbed the resulting three-ringed array of clowns, midgets, acrobats and flying trapeze and high-wire daredevils "the Greatest Show on Earth."
        In his book, Mr. North wrote: "Uncle John was, and brother John is, egotistical, domineering, and eccentric, and dedicated to the circus. Without them our circus would be a very different sort of thing. In fact, it is doubtful it would be at all."
        After he and his brother sold their interests in the circus in 1967, Mr. North continued as a consultant.
        Mr. North, known as Buddy, a native of Chicago and a 1933 graduate of Yale, always planned to go into the family business. "I never had another thought, and neither did my brother," he told The New York Post in 1965. He found himself more suited to managing than to performing. "Once I tried juggling torches, fortunately with gloves on," he said. "I caught the wrong end every time."
        In World War II he served in the Navy and the Office of Strategic Services, where he helped arrange the rescue of three anti-fascists imprisoned by Mussolini. The feat earned Mr. North a Silver Star, which he was fond of wearing on his lapel.
        In the 1960's he became an Irish citizen, at least in part so he could invest in gold, which was then prohibited to United States citizens. He was also an officer in two oil firms in Oklahoma.
        His first two marriages ended in divorce. Surviving are his wife of 34 years, the former Gloria de la Feld; a son, John 2d of Kilconnell Ballinasloe, Ireland, and two grandchildren.
      