
        Sam Zolotow, a theater reporter and columnist for The New York Times for many decades whose relentless and exuberant pursuit of drama news made him a legend in the world of Broadway, died on Thursday in the Wadsworth Veterans Administration Hospital in West Los Angeles. He was 94 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said a daughter, Suzanne Berman.
        Mr. Zolotow, the indefatigable, cigar-smoking scourge of the secretive theatrical producer, the equivocal press representative and the recalcitrant theater owner, retired in 1969. He had written a drama column for The Times five days a week, and had worked alongside no fewer than seven Times theater critics: Alexander Woollcott, George S. Kaufman, Brooks Atkinson, Howard Taubman, Stanley Kauffmann, Clive Barnes and Walter Kerr.
        "Give him a corned-beef sandwich, a cigar and a telephone, and he'd ferret out a producer's most closely held secret, even if it took him all day and all night," said Arthur Gelb, now president of The New York Times Company Foundation and a former theater critic who worked with Mr. Zolotow for many years.  'Terrorized Broadway'
        "Sam was a Runyonesque character who terrorized Broadway for some three decades with his ferocious pursuit of inside theater news," Mr. Gelb said. "His column was the show-business bible in an era when show-business gossip was a New York passion."
        Mr. Zolotow, who had little formal education, enlisted in the Navy in 1916, and was hired at The Times as an office boy in December 1919. Soon he gained such prominence as a legman and as a colorful Broadway character that Woollcott wrote a signed profile of him in The New Yorker. Mr. Zolotow himself did not, however, earn a byline until the 1930's.
        Brooks Atkinson once wrote that Mr. Zolotow's reputation as a legman was so prodigious that he remembered George S. Kaufman, then the drama editor, answering the phone, "No, I'm sorry, Mr. Zolotow is out at the moment, but this is his assistant."
        Mr. Zolotow did not report second-hand information or news from handouts, Mr. Gelb said, and he broke many important stories. Worked the Crowd
        Although he attended virtually every Broadway opening for more than four decades, his mind was not usually on what was happening onstage, "but on what was happening in the audience," Mr. Gelb said. "He would work the crowd for his column."
        Stories about Mr. Zolotow abound. Once, the producer Max Gordon was stonewalling Mr. Zolotow during a telephone call, and the reporter would not be denied. "Sam, don't look at me that way," Mr. Gordon finally pleaded into the telephone.
        In the mid-1930's, Mr. Zolotow even played himself in a summer-theater tryout of a play that closed in Connecticut. As a result, he became a member of Actors Equity, and subsequently paid his Equity dues for more than three decades.
        "He really knew the grosses," said Richard F. Shepard, a former reporter and cultural news editor at The Times. "He came in at the crack of dawn; he'd turn in lots and lots of copy, and he was great at fighting for space, even though not all of what he wrote was spun gold."
        At least once, however, his quest for information was frustrated. That was when, in the mid-1930's, he called Elmer Rice, the playwright, demanding to know the weekly receipts for his latest play.
        "Sam," yelled Rice, "how much money did The New York Times take in last week?" Mr. Zolotow for once was speechless.  Had Several Sidelines
        For many years Mr. Zolotow ran several sideline businesses during his tenure as drama reporter, including a messenger service; he also wrote and published a theatrical guide to new productions.
        Also part of the Zolotow legend was his fondness for visiting the racetrack. While an office boy, according to the Woollcott profile, Mr. Zolotow enjoyed a brief sideline at The Times taking bets on the horses, and once, later in his career, he left word at the office that he was going for a week's vacation "to Belmont Park."
        Mr. Zolotow's wife, Sadie, to whom he was married for 70 years, died in 1991.
        In addition to his daughter Suzanne, of Great Neck, N.Y., he is survived by another daughter, Lee Levy of Newton Center, Mass.; two sons, Morton, of Chicago, and David, of Key West, Fla.; a brother, Michael, of Brooklyn,; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      