
        Prof. Helmut Gollwitzer, a German Lutheran theologian who was an advocate for peace and human rights and an opponent of Nazism, died on Oct. 17 in Berlin. He was 84 years old and lived in Berlin.
        Professor Gollwitzer was on the faculty of the Free University in West Berlin from 1957 until his retirement in 1975 and taught at the University of Bonn from 1950 to 1957.
        One of his main concerns as a theologian in those decades was capitalist materialism, which he denounced. Over the years, he also denounced Marxism and anti-Semitism and favored a neutral, nonnuclear Germany. He also looked kindly on the student radicals of the 1960's.
        A pupil and friend of the Swiss theologian Karl Barth, Professor Gollwitzer was a theological lecturer in Thuringia when he was expelled from that central German state in 1937 by the Gestapo. He became a pastor in Berlin took up the cause of persecuted Jews and was expelled from there in 1940.
        He went on to be a medical orderly in the German army, was taken prisoner by the Soviet army in 1945, and was not released until 1949. His account of his captivity was published in West Germany in 1951 and became a best seller there.
        In the book, Professor Gollwitzer concluded that the Germans in the Soviet prisoner-of-war camps were freer than the Soviet citizens outside the barbed wire. An American edition, entitled "Unwilling Journey," is still in print from Greenwood Press.
        A student of Professor Gollwitzer's in Bonn during the 1950's, Paul Oestreicher wrote in the British newspaper The Independent last week: "At heart he was a pastor, as concerned with a student's broken love affair as with the betrayal of Christian values in Bonn's get-rich-quickly society."
        In 1965, Professor Gollwitzer was active at the 12th Annual congress of the German Protestant Churches, in Cologne, where church leaders issued a statement alluding to the Holocaust and affirming "The realization of guilt compels us to repentance and to acts of brotherly love and justice toward the Jews."
        He was born in Pappenheim, 60 miles north of Munich, the son of a Lutheran pastor. He studied at the universities of Munich, Erlangen, Jena and Bonn and earned his doctorate in 1937.
        Another of his books, "The Christian Faith and the Marxist Criticism of Religion," which criticizes Marxist materialism, was published in the United States in 1970 and won critical praise. His other books include "An Introduction to Protestant Theology" (Westminster, 1982).
        He married Brigitte Freudenberg in 1951.She died in 1986.
      