
        Henry (Hank) Iba, who won two national basketball championships at Oklahoma State during a 41-year college coaching career and guided three successive United States Olympic basketball teams, died yesterday at the Stillwater (Okla.) Medical Center. He was 88.
        Iba died at 1:30 A.M. of heart failure, said Susan Collins, vice president of marketing at the medical center.
        For all of Iba's success in college -- his 767 victories are the third-highest total among college coaches -- he is indelibly remembered as the coach of the 1972 United States men's Olympic team, which suffered a controversial 51-50 loss to the Soviet Union in Munich. It was the first time the United States failed to win the Olympic gold medal in basketball.
        Before that game, United States teams had won 63 consecutive games since basketball was introduced to the Olympics in 1936. The streak, as well as Iba's coaching career, ended in chaos and controversy.
        Doug Collins had given the Americans their first lead of the game, at 50-49, when he hit two free throws with three seconds to play. The Soviet squad attempted to put the ball in play under its own basket, but the inbounds pass was deflected, time ran out and the Americans began to celebrate what they thought was a gold-medal victory. Celebration Cut Short
        Their joy was short-lived. Robert Jones, secretary-general of the International Basketball Federation, came down from the stands, overruled the officials, ordered the clock reset at three seconds, and gave the Soviet team another chance to put the ball in play. Iba, who had coached American Olympic teams to gold medals in 1964 in Tokyo and in 1968 in Mexico City, angrily stalked after the referees and the federation officials and had to be restrained by his players.
        After order was restored at courtside, a Soviet player threw a desperation pass the length of the court to 6-foot-8-inch Aleksandr Belov, who was being guarded by Kevin Joyce and James Forbes. All three went up for the ball, but Joyce and Forbes were knocked to the floor in the battle for position, clearing the way for an easy catch and layup by Belov as the buzzer sounded.
        "I don't think it's possible to have made the play in three seconds," Iba shouted as he angrily rushed to the scorer's table. "There's no way he can get that shot off in time."
        Iba never really recognized that defeat, and the United States team refused the silver medal. After the United States suffered its second Olympic basketball loss, in 1988 at Seoul, South Korea, again to the Soviet Union, Iba relived the first loss. "When it came down to the gold-medal game," he said, "they did everything to steal the game away from us." Celebration in 1984
        Iba did not coach in the Olympics again, but 12 years later, Bob Knight, one of Iba's proteges, paid him an Olympic tribute. After the United States won the 1984 Olympic gold medal by defeating Spain in Los Angeles, Knight, who as coach had named Iba as the team's honorary coach, had his players raise Iba to their shoulders and parade him around as part of the celebration.
        "Of all the shadows cast over the game of basketball, his was the biggest" Knight, the coach at Indiana University, said yesterday.
        Henry Payne Iba was born on Aug. 6, 1904, in Easton, Mo., and began his coaching career at the age of 22, on the high-school level at McCredie, Mo. Elected to Hall of Fame
        He spent four years as coach at Maryville Teachers College (now Northwest Missouri State), from which he graduated in 1928, and one year at the University of Colorado. Then, in 1935, Iba went to the land-grant university at Stillwater, which was known as Oklahoma A&M until its name was changed to Oklahoma State in 1958. He remained there for 36 seasons, until his retirement from the college ranks, in 1970. He was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1968.
        There is obvious distinction to Iba's 767-338 college coaching record, but what made his reign memorable is how he won the games. Iba was noted as the foremost exponent of slowdown basketball in an era when there was no shot clock to limit how long a team could retain possession.
        His teams were schooled to play fierce defense and shoot only when it was absolutely necessary, when there was nothing else to do with the ball. At the pinnacle of his college success, in the 1940's, Iba's players would usually hold the score of a game below 50 points per team, and often well below that.
        His team won the national championship in 1945 by beating New York University, 49-45. Oklahoma A&M retained the title the next year by beating North Carolina, 43-40. Title-Game Loss to Rupp
        Iba returned to the final one more time, in 1949, but his team lost, 46-36, to Kentucky and Coach Adolph Rupp. Rupp, who died in 1977, is the career leader in coaching victories, with 875, followed by Clarence Gaines, who is still coaching.
        The first thing Iba would do each season would be to tell his players, "We're not going to play them; they're going to play us."
        From the sideline, Iba, with his gravelly voice, could be be heard above the crowd, raging at officials, scolding an erring player. He ruled his teams with a heavy hand, sometimes becoming so impatient after a player made a bad pass or shot that he would tear the warm-up jacket off a reserve he was sending in.
        After he left college coaching, Iba retained ties to Oklahoma State and attended nearly every home basketball game. Failing health forced him to break with that tradition this season.
        He is survived by a brother, Clarence; a son, Henry W., the basketball coach at Texas Christian University, and three grandchildren.
      