
        Joseph L. Driscoll, the president of Southeastern Massachusetts University who attracted national attention for his fight against student and faculty opposition to the Vietnam War, died on Friday at his home in Sandwich, Mass. He was 70.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, A. Katina Boyatzis Driscoll.
        Professor Driscoll, the first president of the Massachusetts university, was a decorated Marine pilot in World War II, flying Corsair fighter planes in the South and Central Pacific.
        He became of president of the university, then called Southeastern Massachusetts Technological Institute, in 1962. In the late 1960's his hard-nosed management style came into conflict with rising sentiment against the Vietnam War, culminating in a student boycott of classes in December 1969 and a call for his resignation. Dismissals and Then Boycott
        The conflict started after Professor Driscoll decided to call the university's athletic teams the Corsairs, although students had voted to call their teams the Vikings. He then dismissed several popular professors after they protested the Vietnam War, which led to a boycott by 80 percent of the student body that lasted several days. The American Association of University Professors and Gov. Francis W. Sargent ordered investigations into the dispute, but no action was ever taken against Professor Driscoll.
        He resigned in December 1971, several months after the university's board voted to reinstate 30 faculty members he had dismissed.
        He later worked as a freelance management and educational consultant.
        He was educated at Harvard University, where he received a bachelor's degree with honors in 1952, a master's degree and a doctorate. Before accepting the post at Southeastern Massachusetts in North Dartmouth, he was a professor of educational administration at Boston College.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, Logan Joseph, of Sandwich, and Joseph Leo Jr., of Carmel, Calif.; a daughter, Mary Patricia Egan of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Col. James Driscoll of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Teresa Driscoll of Roslindale, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      