
        Earl D. Hanson, the Fisk Professor of Natural Sciences at Wesleyan University and an academic leader who emphasized the role of ethics in science, died on Tuesday after he had a heart attack in his campus office in Middletown, Conn. He was 66.
        In an academic career that spanned nearly 40 years, Professor Hanson was one of the first to advocate ethical training of young scientists. He also urged improved development of scientific teaching for nonscientists, with an emphasis on how genetic engineering could affect society. Toward that end, he founded and was the chairman of the Science in Society program at Wesleyan.
        From 1965 to 1967, he was chairman of the national Commission on Undergraduate Education in the Biological Sciences.
        Mr. Hanson, a professor of biology, concentated on intracellular genetics. He was the author in 1981 of the widely used textbook, "Understanding Evolution." He also was the author of "The Origin and Early Evolution of Animals" (1977) and of more than 50 research articles. Honored for Teaching
        He was regarded as a popular and first-rate teacher, winning the Harbison Award for Distinguished Teaching in 1970.
        Much of his activity in recent years involved educating nonscientists about contemporary problems and possibilities in biology and other fields.
        Professor Hanson was born in India. After serving in the United States Marine Corps in World War II, he graduated from Bowdoin College and earned a Ph.D. in biology in 1954 from Indiana University.
        He was on the Yale University faculty from 1954 to 1960, when he joined the Wesleyan faculty. He was elected a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1991.
        He is survived by a sister, Edith Hanson of Takaharu, Japan; two brothers, Dr. Mark C., of Boring, Ore., and Stanley G., of Minneapolis; two sons, Stanley, of Middletown, and Kenric, of New London, Conn.; a daughter, Mardi Hanson-D'Alessandro, of Higganum, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      