
        Frederick Gutheim, a regional and urban planner who was a writer and a consultant in his field, died on Saturday at the Washington Hospital Center in the District of Columbia. He was 85 and lived in Mitchellville, Md.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said.
        His 1949 book "The Potomac," a history of the river and its region emphasizing economics, was cited as virtually a model of what good regional history should be. It is still in print, from Johns Hopkins.
        The nine other works of which he was the author, a co-author or the editor include "The Federal City: Plans and Realities" (Smithsonian, 1976), which he wrote with Wilcomb Washburn. Advocate of Preservation
        For many years, Mr. Gutheim (pronounced GOOT-heim) did consulting work on historical preservation as well as on planning.
        From 1958 to 1960, he was the staff director of the Joint Congressional Committee on Washington Metropolitan Problems. From 1960 to 1965, he was the president of the Washington Center for Metropolitan Studies, an urban think tank.
        He also served on a variety of panels in his field, including, from 1962 to 1964, the President's Advisory Council on Pennsylvania Avenue, formed by President John F. Kennedy, and, from 1952 to 1957, the National Capital Regional Planning Council.
        In 1972, he was the national chairman of the Frederick Law Olmsted Sesquicentennial Committee. That celebration commemorated Olmsted's work, notably as a co-designer of Central Park and a pioneer landscape architect.
        Mr. Gutheim also created a photographic exhibition of American architecture that was held in the National Gallery of Art in Washington in 1957 to help mark the 100th anniversary of the American Institute of Architects. The show was hailed at the time as being itself an important landmark in American architecture. Journalism and Academia
        He was with The New York Herald Tribune from 1947 to 1950 and wrote architectural criticism and editorials urging New Yorkers to fight to save Washington Square. He also wrote for Progressive Architecture, Inland Architect and The Washington Post.
        In addition, he taught or was an administrator at the University of Michigan, Williams College and George Washington University. He was on the visiting committee at the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University.
        Mr. Gutheim was born in Cambridge, Mass. He earned a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1931 and did graduate work at the University of Chicago. He served in the Army in World War II.
        The other works he wrote or co-wrote were "Houses for Family Living" (1948), "Rethinking Urban Development" (1949), "Housing as Environment" (1953), "100 Years of Architecture in America" (1957), "Alvar Aalto" (1960) and "Worthy of the Nation" (United States Government Printing Office, 1977), a history of Washington. He edited "Frank Lloyd Wright on Architecture" (1941) and "In the Cause of Architecture" (1975).
        Mr. Gutheim is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Mary Purdon; a son, Nicholas, of Anchorage; a brother, Robert, of Bethesda, Md.; a half-brother, Allen, of Sudbury, Mass., and a half-sister, Barbara Isham of Minneapolis.
      