
        Marko Rothmuller, an operatic baritone and composer, died on Wednesday at his home in Bloomington, Ind., where he was distinguished professor emeritus of music at Indiana University. He was 84.
        He died of natural causes, the university said.
        Mr. Rothmuller, who made his Metropolitan Opera debut in Wagner's "Meistersinger von Nurnberg" in 1959, had a singing career that began with Weber's "Freischutz" in Hamburg in 1932. He rejoined the Met's company for the 1964-1965 season. By then, he had been appointed a professor of voice in Bloomington, where he started teaching in 1955. Training as a Singer
        He was a native of Croatia, and studied at the Zagreb Music Academy. He went to Vienna to train as a singer with Franz Steiner and study composition with Alban Berg; the title role of Berg's "Wozzeck" became a signature piece. He studied for that role with Erich Kleiber, who conducted the Berlin premiere of "Wozzeck" in 1925.
        After his engagement at the Hamburg Opera, Mr. Rothmuller established himself as one of Europe's most promising baritones, scoring successes particularly in works by Wagner and Verdi. Because he was of Jewish descent, he left Germany in the early 1930's to sing in Zagreb and Zurich, where he appeared regularly until 1947.
        His European engagements then took him to the Vienna State Opera, Covent Garden in London and the Glyndebourne Opera at the Edinburgh International Festival of Music and Drama. An American Debut
        In 1954, he returned to Germany for the first time with a guest appearance in West Berlin. His American debut was with the New York City Center Opera as Amonasro in Verdi's "Aida" in 1948, after which he traveled extensively in this country for occasional opera and concert engagements.
        Mr. Rothmuller's interest in Hebrew music led him to compose a number of Sephardic religious folk songs and a setting of Psalm XV. His work also included a symphony for strings, two string quartets and a book on the history of Jewish music.
        Mr. Rothmuller is survived by his wife, the former Margrit Silverstein; two sons, Ilan, of San Diego, Calif., and Daniel, of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      