
        Sammy Cahn, one of the last American songwriters to embody the scrappy can-do spirit of Tin Pan Alley, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 79.
        He had been hospitalized two-and-a-half weeks ago for congestive heart failure, said Ron Wise, a hospital spokesman.
        A lyricist whose most important collaborators were the composers Jule Styne, Jimmy Van Heusen and Saul Chaplin, Mr. Cahn wrote the words for dozens of songs that became hits, including "All the Way," "Day By Day," "Time After Time," and "Three Coins in the Fountain." The typical Cahn lyric was brashly assertive and often unabashedly sentimental. "When somebody loves you, it's no good unless she loves you all the way," went his opening line for "All the Way," from the 1957 film "The Joker Is Wild." The song became a No. 1 hit for Frank Sinatra and won the year's Oscar.
        "Three Coins in the Fountain," "High Hopes" and "Call Me Irresponsible," were the other songs with Cahn lyrics to win Academy Awards. They, too, were hits for Mr. Sinatra, a singer with whom Mr. Cahn had been closely associated since the 1940's. And except for "Three Coins," which had a melody by Mr. Styne, all had music by Van Heusen.
        An outspoken champion of the pre-rock songwriting tradition, Mr. Cahn was famous for being able to come up at the spur of the moment with a lyric for any occasion. He wrote special material for the nightclub acts of Mr. Sinatra, Dean Martin, Paul Anka, Sammy Davis Jr., Tony Bennett and many other stars, and was especially well known for his parodies and adaptations of his own and other people's lyrics. "High Hopes," with his rewritten lyrics, became a campaign song for John F. Kennedy in 1960.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Cahn was the president of the National Academy of Popular Music (also known as the Songwriters Hall of Fame). It was a post he had held since 1973.
        Mr. Cahn, whose original name was Samuel Cohen, was the son of Jewish immigrants on the Lower East Side of New York. He studied the violin as a child, and in his teens worked as an itinerant fiddler with semi-professional bands, playing for weddings, bar mitzvahs and other parties around the city. With his first songwriting collaborator, Saul Chaplin, he wrote special material for vaudeville acts. They had their first hit in 1935 with "Rhythm Is Our Business," which was written for the bandleader Jimmie Lunceford and later became Lunceford's signature song.
        In 1938, Jack Kapp, a producer for Decca Records, asked them to write an English-language version of a song from the 1933 Yiddish musical "I Would if I Could." The result, "Bei Mir Bist du Schoen," started the recording career of the Andrews Sisters and became a No. 1 hit for them. Among the other Chaplin-Cahn hits were "Please Be Kind" and "Until the Real Thing Comes Along."  A New Partner
        Mr. Cahn and Chaplin moved to Los Angeles in the early 1940's to write songs for Columbia Pictures, but they split up after trying unsuccessfully to come up with more hits. While Mr. Chaplin went on to become a well-known orchestrator of Hollywood musicals, Mr. Cahn began a songwriting collaboration with Jule Styne. Between 1942 and 1951 they wrote songs for 19 films, including "Anchors Aweigh" (1944) and "Romance on the High Seas" (1948), which gave Doris Day her first No. 1 recording, "It's Magic."
        Many of the team's 1940's songs became synonymous with wartime nostalgia. Among them are "I'll Walk Alone," "Guess I'll Hang My Tears Out to Dry," and "It's Been a Long, Long Time." ."
        A high point of their collaboration was the 1947 hit Broadway musical, "High Button Shoes,"whose score included "Papa, Won't You Dance With Me," "I Still Get Jealous," "You're My Girl," and "On a Sunday by the Sea." In 1954, two years before dissolving their collaboration, they wrote the Oscar-winning title song for the film "Three Coins in the Fountain," which in addition to putting Mr. Sinatra in the Top 10 was a No. 1 hit for the Four Aces.
        During this period, Mr. Cahn did not write exclusively with Mr. Styne. Other partners included Axel Stordahl and Paul Weston, with whom he wrote two of Mr. Sinatra's biggest 1940's hits, "Day By Day" and "I Should Care"; Gene DePaul ("Teach Me Tonight"), and Nicholas Brodszky (the Mario Lanza hits "Be My Love" and "Because You're Mine," and "I'll Never Stop Loving You," for Doris Day).  Sinatra's Collaborators
        In 1956, after Mr. Styne decided to devote his energies to the Broadway stage, Mr. Cahn began a full-time collaboration with Van Heusen. The two concentrated so heavily on material for Mr. Sinatra, who had brought them together to write the title song for his film "The Tender Trap," that they were almost considered to be his personal songwriters.
        Their collaborations for Mr. Sinatra included "Love and Marriage," "All the Way," "High Hopes," "Call Me Irresponsible," "The Second Time Around," "My Kind of Town" and the title songs for four classic Sinatra albums: "Come Fly With Me," "Come Dance With Me," "Only the Lonely" and "September of My Years."
        The team also wrote two unsuccessful Broadway musicals, "Skyscraper" (1965) and "Walking Happy" (1966), and the score for the 1967 film "Thoroughly Modern Millie." In 1970, Mr. Cahn reunited with Mr. Styne to write the Broadway musical "Look to the Lilies," which was also unsuccessful. And in 1974, Mr. Cahn opened at the Golden Theater on Broadway in his own one-man retrospecive, "Words and Music," which ran for nearly nine months and toured extensively.
        His autobiography, "I Should Care," was published in 1974.
        Mr. Cahn is survived by his second wife, the former Tita Curtis, a one-time fashion coordinator for the clothes designer Donald Brooks; a son, Steve Kahn of New York; a daughter, Laurie Cahn of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.  THE OTHER HALF OF SEVERAL MUSICAL TEAMS
        Sammy Cahn's work has touched anyone who has ever sung in the shower or hummed a tune on the way out of a Broadway or movie musical. These are some of his most successful songs and partnerships.
        WITH SAUL CHAPLIN
        Bei Mir Bist du Schoen
        Please Be Kind  Rhythm Is Our Business  Until the Real Thing Comes Along
        WITH JULE STYNE
        Five Minutes More  Guess I'll Hang My Tears Out to Dry
        I Fall in Love Too Easily  I Still Get Jealous  I'll Walk Alone  It's Been a Long, Long Time
        It's Magic
        I've Heard That Song Before  Let It Snow, Let It Snow, Let It Snow  Papa, Won't You Dance With Me  Saturday Night Is the Loneliest Night of the Week  The Things We Did Last Summer
        Three Coins in the Fountain
        Time After Time
        Papa, Won't You Dance With Me
        WITH PAUL WESTON AND AXEL STORDAHL
        Day By Day  I Should Care
        WITH NICHOLAS BRODSZKY
        Be My Love  I'll Never Stop Loving You
        WITH GENE DePAUL
        Teach Me Tonight
        WITH JIMMY VAN HEUSEN
        All the Way
        Call Me Irresponsible
        Come Fly With Me  High Hopes  Love and Marriage
        My Kind of Town (Chicago Is)
        The Second Time Around
        September of My Years
        The Tender Trap
      