
        Peter Quennell, a dashing English man of letters who also wrote about the celebrities he socialized with, died on Wednesday in London. He was 88.
        A published author for 71 years, Sir Peter was a prolific critic, biographer, historian, reviewer, essayist, poet and editor of books and journals. He was equally known as a wit, gossip, world traveler and hedonist. He was knighted last year.
        The Times of London called him "probably the last genuine example of the English man of letters" and praised his "impeccable elegance and urbanity."
        His acquaintances read like "Who's Who": Churchill, Kingsley Amis, Lady Cunard, D. H. Lawrence, Alec Douglas-Home, Cyril Connolly, Cecil Beaton, George Orwell, Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean, Ian Fleming, Constantin Brancusi, Robert Graves, Kenneth Clark, Harold Acton and Edward and Vita Sackville-West. An 'Entertaining Boswell'
        "A most eloquent and entertaining Boswell" of the literary set, Michiko Kakutani wrote about him in The New York Times. Anatole Broyard called him "a talented literary jack of all trades who knew everybody." Once he spun an entire chapter from his recollection of a lunch he had with Greta Garbo two decades earlier.
        He made at least one notable enemy, Evelyn Waugh, who feuded with him and once scorned him as a "fuddy-duddy fish-face."
        Sir Peter was born in what he called an arty household. His father was an architect and, like Sir Peter's mother, an author. He attended a grammar school with young Graham Greene, whose father was the headmaster.
        As a lad, Sir Peter wrote voluminous letters and took up poetry. When his first book of verses was published when he was 17, he won minor national fame and an introduction to Edith Sitwell.
        Their meeting was "the breakthrough to the enchanted realm I longed to enter," he later said. "At last I had entered the literary world, in which beauty, lunacy and genius were woven together into the pattern of everyday life."
        His notorious promiscuity, for which he was reportedly expelled from Oxford, once earned him the description of being a "rampant heterosexual." He had a brief writing stint in New York, extolling Elizabeth Arden face cream. Two Volumes of Poems
        After publishing two volumes of poems, he dropped poetry and compiled five essays, which were published under the title "Baudelaire and the Symbolists" (Chatto & Windus, 1929). An interlude of teaching English in Tokyo inspired "A Superficial Journey Through Tokyo and Peking" (Faber, 1932).
        Best known as a scholar of Byron, Sir Peter's works included two best-selling biographies, "Byron" (Duckworth, 1934) and "Byron, the Years of Fame" (Viking, 1935). Later he edited "Byron: Selections from Poetry, Letters and Journals" (Nonesuch, 1949) and "Byronic Thoughts" (Murray, 1960).
        He also wrote "Hogarth's Progress" (Viking, 1955), "Alexander Pope: the Education of Genius, 1688-1728" (Stein & Day, 1968), "Casanova in London and Other Essays" (Stein & Day, 1971), "Samuel Johnson: His Friends and Enemies" (Weidenfeld & Nicholson, 1972) and "Vladimir Nabokov: His Life, His Work, His World" (Weidenfeld & Nicholson, 1979).
        Later he drew acclaim for his memoirs, "The Marble Foot" (Collins, 1976) and "The Wanton Chaste" (Collins, 1980). Editor of Magazine
        As the editor of Cornhill magazine, he published Truman Capote, Andre Gide, Somerset Maugham and H. G. Wells. He was the co-founder and longtime co-editor of History Today.
        He served as a critic for The Daily Mail and The Sunday Telegraph. In 1964 he was a witness in a pornography trial over "Fanny Hill," which he testified had historical and literary value.
        The books he edited included "The Journal of Thomas Moore: 1818-1941" (1964) and "Marcel Proust, 1871-1922" (Simon & Schuster, 1971).
        Sir Peter was married five times, the last to Lady Peek, who survives, along with their son, Alexander, and a daughter, Sarah, from his third marriage.
      