
        Myrl E. Alexander, a former head of the Federal prison system and leading innovator in penal reforms, died Thursday at Spohn Hospital in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 83 and lived in Corpus Christi.
        He had suffered several strokes, his family said.
        Mr. Alexander fostered changes to give prisoners productive work, education and job training to integrate them into society as useful citizens. He also emphasized intervention with young offenders to prevent their becoming career criminals.
        His programs included weekend furloughs for trustworthy inmates, part-time release for classes and work, half-way houses to ease prisoners into full release and a young offenders' center in Morgantown, W. Va.
        He played an instrumental role in the 1965 Federal Prisoner Rehabilitation Act and a major reorganization of the Bureau of Prisons announced in 1966 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Later Mr. Alexander helped formulate further changes announced by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969.
        In 1967 Mr. Alexander won the President's Award for Distinguished Service.
        A vocal critic, he called traditional prison policies a failure. He deplored "zoo-like" mass prisons with untrained, underpaid guards and the frustrating "enforced idleness" of inmates. He opposed capital punishment as the "last vestige of old barbarity."
        His career in prisons started by accident. A chemistry major at Manchester College, he graduated amid the Depression. Needing work, he took a prison job in 1931. Eventually he became associate warden at the Lewisburg, Pa., prison and a warden in Danbury, Conn.
        Mr. Alexander served as chief administrative officer of the Federal Parole Board in the 1930's, assistant director of Federal prisons from 1947 to 1961 and director from 1964 to 1970.  After World War II he was placed in charge of civilian prisons in Germany's American zone.
        He was a past president of the American Correctional Association and an American representative to the United Nations Advisory Committee on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders.
        In 1961 he became the founding director of the Center for the Study of Crime, Delinquency and Corrections at Southern Illinois University. He taught penology there and at the University of Florida. He was also lumber tree farmer before retiring in 1981.
        Surviving are his wife of 59 years, the former Lorene M. Shoemaker; a daughter, Nancy A. Hibbs of Corpus Christi; a son, John K. of Biggsville, Ill.; a sister, Ruth Johnson of Lynchburg, Ohio; four grandchildren, and four great grandchildren.
      