
        Albert Smith Bigelow, a pacifist who tried several times to sail into a nuclear testing area near the Marshall Islands in 1958 in a protest against nuclear weapons, died on Wednesday at a retirement home in Walpole, Mass. He was 87.
        His family said he had had a long illness.
        Mr. Bigelow, who served as a Navy lieutenant commander aboard destroyer escorts in the Pacific theater in World War II, became a Quaker and a follower of the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi in 1954.
        On Feb. 10, 1958, he and three fellow Quakers set sail from San Pedro, Calif., in a 30-foot ketch, the Golden Rule, for Eniwetok Atoll in the Western Pacific to try to halt nuclear tests that were to be held there two months later. After first being turned back by storms, they eventually reached Honolulu but were never able to reach their ultimate destination.
        Three attempts to reach Eniwetok were intercepted by Coast Guard cutters enforcing a Federal court injunction against entering the testing grounds. After the final attempt, the crew was jailed for 60 days.
        Mr. Bigelow, a graduate of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, began his career as an architect in New York, helping to design buildings for the 1939 World's Fair. But he soon left architecture and became an artist, frequently painting seascapes and nautical scenes.
        After the war he was appointed housing commissioner of Massachusetts by Gov. Robert Bradford and helped build low-cost housing for veterans.
        But Mr. Bigelow's religious convictions led him to participate in a 1954 protest of chemical weapons at Fort Dietrich, Md., and later to take in, with his wife, two women who had been disfigured by the atomic bomb that the United States dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, in Aug. 6, 1945.
        That experience, he later wrote, "forced me to see that I had no choice but to make the commitment to live, as best I could, a life of nonviolence."
        Besides helping to organize and taking part in demonstrations against nuclear warfare, Mr. Bigelow was an ardent advocate of civil rights. In 1961, as a Freedom Rider in the South, he was one of several people who were badly beaten by segregationists at a bus stop in Rock Hill, S.C.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Sylvia Weld; two daughters, Lisa Roberts and Kate Benton, both of Manhattan, eight grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      