
        Melvin Jacobs, the merchant whose fashion savvy propelled him from a job in the bargain basement at Bloomingdale's to the chief executive's office at Saks Fifth Avenue, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The exact cause of death was uncertain; doctors said it could have been a heart attack or an aneurysm.
        Mr. Jacobs died just three months after he retired from a decadelong career at Saks. The news jolted the fashion industry from Seventh Avenue to the runways of Milan and Paris, where the spring shows are under way.
        After Mr. Jacobs retired, he started a retailing and investment company called Retail Options Inc. with Kenneth Walker and Verna Gibson, former president of the Limited Stores.
        Just before he retired, Mr. Jacobs had joined the board of QVC Network Inc., the television shopping service that is currently bidding for Paramount Communications Inc. Deceptively Low-Key
        His involvement with QVC reflected his knack for recognizing trends early, his friends and competitors said. "Mel was deceptive in some ways because he appeared to be very low-key," said Marvin Traub, the former chairman of Bloomingdale's who had known Mr. Jacobs since they were assistants together in the bargain basement at Bloomingdale's 43 years ago. "But he was very conceptual and had an eye for fashion and for where fashion was heading."
        Bud Konheim, president of Nicole Miller Ltd., a Seventh Avenue design house, recalled meeting Mr. Jacobs in the late 1950's. Mr. Konheim was trying to sell dresses to Bloomingdale's, and to give him an idea of what sort of merchandise the chain was looking for, Mr. Jacobs sent him up to the home furnishings department.
        The elevated train running above Third Avenue had just been torn down, and thousands of young couples were moving into the apartment buildings going up in its wake.
        "In an era when every tablecloth was white, he had filled home furnishings with red place mats and green glasses and purple plates," all the "newest and most different of what was available," Mr. Konheim recalled.
        Mr. Jacobs was a collector of Surrealist art and gathered several works by artists like Rene Magritte, Man Ray and Marcel Duchamp after developing friendships with them.
        Mr. Jacobs rose through the ranks of merchants at Bloomingdale's, ultimately becoming a senior vice president and general merchandise manager of the chain during his 25 years there. In 1972, he was appointed president of Burdine's, a Florida-based department store chain owned by Federated Department Stores Inc., which also owned Bloomingdale's.
        "Under his direction, Burdine's became one of the most profitable of Federated's chains," said Alan G. Millstein, editor of Fashion Network Report, a garment-industry newsletter.
        Federated later brought him into its corporate offices in Cincinnati as a vice chairman, but after it became clear that he would not ascend to the helm of the company, he joined Saks in 1982 as its chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Jacobs led a management group in an unsuccessful attempt to buy Saks, which operates 50 stores in 22 states, when the American subsidiary of B.A.T. Industries P.L.C. put the chain up for sale in 1990. But he was never heavily involved in the financial and operational aspects of the business, choosing instead to hire able financial executives and focus his attention on merchandising.
        He could often be found walking the floors of the chain's Fifth Avenue flagship, fingering merchandise and making minor adjustments to mannequins and displays.
        Saks was ultimately purchased for $1.6 billion by Investcorp, the private investment company that still owns it.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalind Gersten Jacobs, and his daughter, Peggy Jacobs, both of Manhattan, and his brother, Leo Jacobs of California.
      