
        The Rev. Arie R. Brouwer, an internationally known church leader and a former General Secretary of the National Council of Churches, died on Thursday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 58.
        The cause was colon cancer, family members said.
        Dr. Brouwer's church ministry ended much as it began in 1959, serving in a local congregation. Until May of this year, when his illness made it impossible for him to continue, he was interim pastor of the Community Church of Glen Rock, N.J., a Reformed Church in America congregation.
        In the intervening years, he moved from serving congregations in New Jersey and Michigan to become a leading church spokesman on social-justice issues, recognized both in this country and abroad for his advocacy of disarmament and interchurch cooperation. Sensitive to Needs of All People
        In 1987 he led the first church delegation to visit North and South Korea since the country was divided in 1945. He was a principal drafter of a joint call for an end to the arms race, drawn up by Soviet and American church leaders at the 1979 "Choose Life" conference in Geneva, and he subsequently led several trips to the Soviet Union.
        He also went to Cuba, the Middle East and Latin America to inquire about a possible church role in alleviating conflicts.
        Dr. Brouwer, who was 6 feet 7 inches tall, had a talent for speaking and an organizer's skill. He was described by colleagues as a man of decisive temperament but with an acute sensitivity to human needs of all people.
        In an address in 1987, he said the National Council of Churches was committed to the vision of an America "in which justice shall cover the land" and then added: "But justice knows no boundaries. Our struggle is not for our nation alone."
        In 1984 Dr. Brouwer was chosen unanimously by a 28-member selection committee to be the National Council's top executive for a three-year term. His primary assignment included reorganizing the council's sprawling bureacracy and dealing with financial and administrative problems.
        Dr. Brouwer was re-elected in 1987, this time for a four-year term, but ferment was growing within the organization with some complaining about his authoritarian style. After serving only a year and a half of his new term, he resigned. He spent the next year writing and occasionally lecturing, before assuming the position in Glen Rock, N.J. He is the author of "Reformed Church Roots," published by the Reform Church Press in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Harriet Korver, and four children, Martin and Steven, of Ann Arbor, Mich., Patricia of Bogota, N.J., and Charla Bouwer of Lynchburg, Va.
      