
        Ed A. Hewett, a member of the National Security Council staff in the Bush Administration who was an expert on the economies of the Soviet Union and its successor states, died Friday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 50.
        He died of cancer that began in an adrenal gland, said John Steinbruner, the director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution.
        Dr. Hewett, who lived in Silver Spring, Md., was a senior fellow at Brookings from 1981 to 1991, when he joined the National Security Council staff and became Mr. Bush's special assistant and senior adviser for Russian and Eurasian Affairs. He accompanied the President to Moscow in July 1991, and continued working until last month.
        His work for the President was not limited to economic analysis. Communications between Mr. Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former Soviet President, about the timing of the United States' granting of full diplomatic recognition to Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which was given on Sept. 2, 1991, were carried out in part through Dr. Hewett. Award for Exceptional Service
        He recently received a Special Award for Exceptional Service from Mr. Bush, who cited his "extraordinary creativity, energy and leadership in forging a new policy for democratic reform in the former Soviet Union and his brilliant advice and service to the President and national security adviser Brent Scowcroft."
        Before joining the Bush Administration, Dr. Hewett was also influential through his writings. Abram Bergson, a retired professor of economics at Harvard University, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that his 1988 book, "Reforming the Soviet Union: Equality Versus Efficiency" (Brookings), was "an impressive study" that "should quickly become the book of choice on Mikhail Gorbachev and the Soviet economy."
        Dr. Hewett's appraisals could be blunt and terse. In late 1990, just after Eduard A. Shevardnadze, an advocate of thorough economic reform, resigned as the Soviet Foreign Minister, Dr. Hewett said in an interview that "he was one of the good guys" and that his resignation was "a signal that one of the most prominent founders of perestroika has decided that the whole ship is off course."
        Dr. Hewett, who was born in Missouri, received a bachelor's degree from Colorado State University and a doctorate in economics from the University of Michigan. He taught at the University of Texas before joining Brookings.
        He is survived by his wife of 29 years, Nancy Maisto Hewett; his parents, Ed and Esther Hewett of San Diego; a brother, David, of Eugene, Ore., and a sister, Patricia Pisano of Escondito, Calif.
      