
        Joseph A. Moller, a decorated American aviator, oil industry executive and Arizona cattle rancher, died on Saturday at his home in Paradise Valley, near Scottsdale. He was 93.
        He suffered a brief illness, said his son, Allan S. Moller.
        Colonel Moller, as he continued to be known, earned his wings in World War I. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1918 and remained in the reserves for most of his life.
        In World War II, when he was twice the age of pilots being trained, he flew 49 combat missions, including some after he took command of the 390th Bombardment Group as a colonel. He returned highly decorated. In 1989 he was made an honorary graduate of the Air Force Academy.
        A native of St. Louis, he grew up partly in New York City, where his father, the Rev. Carl Moller, led an Episcopal congregation. As a young man, he became a ranch hand on a Montana cattle ranch.
        Returning East, he worked his way through Cornell University, graduating as a mechanical engineer. Then he put in a stint as an architect in New York.
        In 1929, Mr. Moller moved to Chicago to join the Pure Oil Company, for which he organized a laboratory for fuel research and helped develop, among other things, a high-octane aviation fuel used during World War II. In his spare time he flew his own planes.
        When the United States entered the war, he went back on active duty and ferried B-17's to bases overseas where bomber commands were being formed. He talked his way into a training command and, finally, an assignment to a bomber group in England.
        He received 16 medals, including the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross with several clusters, the Legion of Merit and the Air Medal and decorations from the French and Polish Governments.
        After the war, he returned to Pure Oil in Chicago but retired as a vice president two years later and moved to Arizona. There, he bought the M-Flying-M ranch near Three Points, outside Tucson, and operated it until 1965, when he sold it.
        He was the motivating force behind the 390th Memorial Museum in Tucson, which contains a Joseph A. Moller Library with complete records of his unit's missions. He remained active in the reserves until 1962. In the early 1950's he led the Pima County Republican Party and campaigned for Dwight D. Eisenhower in his 1952 race for the Presidency.
        Besides his son Allan, of Manhattan, Mr. Moller's survivors include his wife, the former Dorothy Donnelley; a daughter, Barbara Streever of Tucson; another son, George D., of Lakewood, Colo.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      