
        Robert L. Hoguet Jr., a former banker, investment firm chairman, civic leader and president of the Repertory Theater of Lincoln Center, died in his Manhattan home on Thursday. He was 84.
        His family said the cause was heart failure.
        As president of the theater from 1964 to 1970, Mr. Hoguet oversaw its move from Washington Square to the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center. He also presided over its occasionally stormy transition from a downtown group to a nationally recognized theater.
        He was also a member of the board of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Chairman of Investment Firm
        Mr. Hoguet was executive vice president of First National City Bank, now Citibank, which he joined in 1935. In 1970 he joined Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day as an investment banker, becoming the firm's chairman in 1975. He retired in the late 1980's.
        Mr. Hoguet graduated from Harvard College in 1931 and from the Harvard Business School in 1933. In World War II, he served as a commander in the Naval Reserve. He was a trustee of Barnard College, the Hospital for Special Surgery and the French Institute, and was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
        In 1980, Mr. Hoguet was elected chairman of the China Institute, which promotes education and exchanges with China.
        Mr. Hoguet's first wife, the former Constance Roberts, who was president of the New York Philharmonic Society, died in 1984.
        He is survived by his second wife, Alice; two sons, Robert of Manhattan and George of Tacoma, Wash.; a daughter, Constance Hoguet Neel of Manhattan; a brother, Peter, of Manhattan; three sisters, Louise McKeon of Ridgefield, Conn., Eleanor de Give of Southampton, L.I., and Maria Khatami of Manhattan; five stepchildren; 16 grandchildren and stepgrandchildren, and four stepgreat-grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M. Wednesday at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street in Manhattan.
      