
        John J. Reynolds, the developer of the Mastercard, died on Thursday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 70, and had lived in Garden City, L.I.
        Mr. Reynolds died of heart failure, said his daughter, Dianne Reynolds.
        A native of the Bronx, Mr. Reynolds served in an Army engineer and supply unit in Belgium during World War II, then became a clerk with the First National City Bank of New York, which later became Citibank. He worked his way up to assistant vice president by 1957, then vice president four years later.
        He was also attending college in those years, and graduated from New York University in 1955. He later earned advanced degrees from the School of Banking at Rutgers University and the Harvard University School of Business Administration. Headed Card Development
        In 1967 he was named a senior vice president in charge of all domestic branches. In that capacity, he was responsible for coordinating the development of Citibank's Everything Card, later renamed the Mastercharge Card.
        In 1969, Mr. Reynolds testified before a New York State Senate subcommittee investigating theft and fraud in the credit card industry. He said that organized crime had infiltrated the business by buying "the cooperation of a few postal clerks who were able to steal large numbers of cards from the mail, and of credit-card company employees who had access to cards."
        After leaving Citibank in 1973, Mr. Reynolds was named president and chief executive officer of the Interbank Card Association, now known as Mastercard International, the organization that licenses Mastercard to thousands of banks. During his 10-year tenure with the association, Mastercard membership expanded to more than 120 nations, including the former Soviet Union. Switch to Mastercard
        In 1979, Mr. Reynolds oversaw the reformulation of Mastercharge into Mastercard, a move made to account for the card's expanding functions. Besides its use in charging purchases, the card, following an industrywide trend at the time, could also be used to draw money directly from bank accounts, transfer funds, pay bills and obtain loans.
        Mr. Reynolds also served as vice chairman of the advisory board of the Adelphi University Center of Banking and Money Management, chairman of the installment credit division of the New York State Bankers Association and as president of the Consumer Bankers Association.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Brookline, Mass., he is survived by his wife, Anne; another daughter, Maureen Cornacchia of Garden City; a brother, Thomas, of Fairlawn, N.J., and two grandsons.
      