
        Dr. Matthew Arnold Kelly, professor emeritus of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University, died yesterday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Kelly had for decades arbitrated many labor-management disputes in New York City. In 1971, he worked to end a citywide strike by police officers.
        He reached emeritus status at Cornell in 1983 but he continued to teach through the semester that ended last month and continued to work as a negotiator. An Amherst Graduate
        Dr. Kelly, a native of New York City, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Amherst College, where he was president of the class of 1936. He earned his master's and doctorate at Princeton University.
        Fellow practitioners of the deft art of arbitration described Dr. Kelly as a pragmatic academician who combined his teaching career with the real world of the bargaining table. The parties using his expertise included New York City and its uniformed workers. Although much of his mediating work was in the public sector, it also dealt with private employers like Consolidated Edison.
        "I just wish I could re-give some of the lectures I gave when I knew everything -- before I'd had hard knocks at the bargaining table," he once said wryly as he sought to end the police strike.
        Another impasse he helped break in 1980 cleared the way for use of New York City's new two-worker sanitation trucks in exchange for a productivity pay raise for the employees riding them.
        Dr. Kelly's interest in labor relations went back to the turbulent years of the Depression. At the end of World War II, he worked for the Allied Control Council in Berlin as the four victors hammered out agreements on uniform wage and labor standards for the four zones of occupation in Germany.
        He returned to Princeton to teach, and left in 1950 to work as an industrial relations director in the printing industry. The academic life lured him back a dozen years later, this time to Cornell. He taught in its School of Industrial and Labor Relations and served as coordinating director of Cornell's Institute of Collective Bargaining and Group Relations in New York City.
        Dr. Kelly is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Persis Bailey; a son, Randall, of Manhattan; a daughter, Deborah, of Washington; a sister, Marion Ferriter of Claremont, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      