
        Arthur D. Greenleigh, who led Federal and private programs to help victims of the Depression and World War II and later founded a consulting firm on welfare issues, died on Friday at home in Manhattan at the age of 90.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        During the Depression Mr. Greenleigh was an administrator of state relief programs in New York and California and executive director of the Los Angeles County Bureau of Public Assistance.
        Early in the war he served as assistant executive director of the National Refugee Service. Then Harry Hopkins, an aide to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, recruited Mr. Greenleigh to the War Manpower Commission. His tasks included supervising the rebuilding of Pearl Harbor, his family said. An Adviser to Presidents
        Next he led the American Joint Distribution Committee's efforts for refugees in Italy and France and then was deputy director of its field operations in Europe and North Africa. He became the executive director of the United Service for New Americans and its successor, United Hias Service, which helped Jewish survivors of the Holocaust resettle.
        He was the Jewish delegate on the United States Displaced Persons Commission and advised Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower on immigration when Federal laws were turning away tens of thousands of refugees. He also advised the United Nations as the chairman of the International Conference of Non-governmental Organizations Interested in Migration.
        In 1956 he founded Greenleigh Associates, a management consulting firm specializing in health and welfare issues. It conducted studies that debunked stereotypes of welfare mothers as lazy, promiscuous and neglectful.
        In the 1980's he won a $490,000 libel judgment against The New York Post after it indicated that his firm had submitted improper bills for work done for the city schools.
        Mr. Greenleigh was born in Manhattan and graduated from the University of Southern California. As a graduate student in physiology there, he was on the team that developed the first machine to detect and record brain waves. Later he earned a master's degree in social work at Columbia and became a social worker.
        His survivors include his wife of 65 years, the former Frances Nasatir; a daughter, Esther Greenleigh Prince of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; a son, Stephen, of Rockville, Md.; a sister, Edna Schottland of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      