
        Rabbi Herbert Tarr, who left his synagogue and became a best-selling author and humorist, died yesterday at the home of his sister in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 64 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Joe Wershba, a friend.
        Rabbi Tarr was the spiritual leader of a congregation in Westbury, L.I., in 1963 when he decided to change careers, at the age of 33. He said at the time that he believed he could be more effective as a novelist because "religion is basically out of touch with people." His intention, he said, was to make people contemplate their lives and how they fit into the world around them. Doing so, he offered his ideals but also filled his prose with humor.
        In his first book, "The Conversion of Chaplain Cohen" (1963), a young Air Force chaplain struggles with the paradoxes and absurdities of military life. Rabbi Tarr had been an Air Force chaplain. The playwright Brendan Behan, in a review for The New York Times, called it a "funny book," adding, "Maybe that's why Tarr is a good writer, because, while he has us busy laughing, he's throwing sermons at us behind our backs." 'Heaven Help Us'
        Another of his novels that was well received was "Heaven Help Us" (1968). In that book, Rabbi Tarr took a questioning view of the synagogue's role and of people who pretend to be Jews but know nothing about their religion. The titles of his other books were "A Time for Loving" (1973), "So Help Me God" (1979) and "A Woman of Spirit" (1989).
        Rabbi Tarr, whose original name was Herbert Targovik, was born in Brooklyn and graduated magna cum laude from Brooklyn College. He held advanced degrees in philosophy, contemporary literature and drama from the Herzliah Hebrew Teachers Institute-Jewish Teachers Seminary, Columbia University and the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.
        He was ordained in 1955 and, after military service, led a congregation in Buffalo before moving to Westbury in 1960. As an author, he appeared on numerous radio and television talk programs and gave many lectures.
        He is survived by his sister, Florence T. Meyer.
      