
        Dr. R. H. Edwin Espy, a former general secretary of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the United States and a leader of the ecumenical movement for more than 40 years, died Sunday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 84.
        Dr. Espy, who lived in Doylestown, Pa., near Philadelphia, died of complications from heart surgery, said his brother, Willard R. Espy, of Manhattan.
        Dr. Espy was general secretary of the National Council of Churches from 1963 to 1973, a period when the council's strong support of the civil rights movement provoked great controversy.
        Dr. Espy, who had joined the council in 1955 and had been its associate executive secretary, affirmed the council's support for liberal causes as vigorously as he sought closer ties to other religious groups. Led Interreligious Council
        From 1965 to 1975 he was the North American representative to the Joint Working Group, which was created by the World Council of Churches and the Vatican in 1965 to consider a broad range of religious issues and relationships. He also was the first chairman of the National Interreligious Council, a joint council of senior officials of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Synagogue Council of America and the National Council of Churches.
        He was born in Portland, Ore., and reared in Oysterville, a village on Willapa Bay in southwestern Washington. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Redlands in California in 1930, a master's of divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1933 and a doctorate from Yale Divinity School in 1950.
        After receiving his master's degree he studied for two years at the universities of Tubingen and Heidelberg in Germany before becoming organizing secretary of the First World Conference of Christian Youth, in Amsterdam, from 1935 to 1939.
        In the 1940's and 1950's Dr. Espy was general secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement for Christian Missions and executive secretary of the National Student Council of the Y.M.C.A. He was instrumental in organizing the National Student Christian Federation and helping it to gain admission to the World's Student Christian Federation.
        Dr. Espy's book, "The Religion of College Teachers," was published in 1951 by Yale University Press.
        Dr. Espy was a former board member of Union Theological Seminary, Riverside Church, the American Baptist City Society of New York and the American Baptist Convention.
        Besides his brother, he is survived by his wife, the former Cleo Mitchell, and a sister, Dale Little of Oysterville.
      