
        Kenneth Burke, a philosopher of language whose criticism and theories had a major impact on many American writers and thinkers in the mid-20th century, died on Friday at his farm in Andover, N.J. He was 96.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Michael.
        A prominent intellectual in Eastern literary circles starting in the 1920's, Mr. Burke was a poet, essayist, reviewer, novelist, translator, social commentator and writer of short stories. His works were collected in more than 15 books.
        But Mr. Burke was more widely known in scholarly circles as a philosopher who concentrated on the deeper uses to which language may be put, as well as its true meaning and significance. He had a wide following among writers and an influence that reached far beyond his own writings.
        His often dense, theoretical criticisms were almost unknown to the reading public, and Mr. Burke himself was something of an obscure figure who was one of the founders a half-century ago of what was then called the New Criticism in America. Art for Action
        Mr. Burke wrote that art and the artist must take priority over politics; that art should have a "hortatory function" that issues a call to action, and that "form in literature is an arousing and fulfillment of desires."
        His theories were presented in a trilogy: "A Grammar of Motives" (1945), "Rhetoric of Motives," (1950), and "Language as Symbolic Action" (1966). His books included literary criticism, a collection of short stories, poetry and one novel, "Towards a Better Life," published in 1931.
        Donald A. Stauffer, an English professor at Princeton University, in a review of "Rhetoric of Motives" published in The New York Times in 1950, said Mr. Burke's importance was in seeking to create a system for analyzing human thought as it manifests itself in expression or communication.
        "Compressing Mr. Burke's dense system is like trying to squeeze a glacier into a snowball," Mr. Stauffer wrote. "This is no book to take along to that lake in New Hampshire this summer."
        Prof. William Rueckert of the University of Rochester, an authority on the work of Mr. Burke, described him as "one of America's most original, versatile, influential and distinguished men of letters." Summarizing the critic's attainments, Professor Rueckert said:
        "Mr. Burke's most notable achievement was the formulation of a systematic body of thought that he called 'dramatism.' The distinguishing characteristics of the dramatistic system are its inclusiveness, its reliance upon language (symbol-using) and its stress upon man's capacity for moral/ethical action, which, according to Burke, is only made possible by language.
        "Burke took Aristotle for his model and attempted to work out for his own time a comparable coherent, systematic and widely applicable language-centered view of man. The central propositions are that 'man is a symbol-using animal' and that language is best understood as 'a mode of action.' "
        Mr. Burke's ideas influenced many American writers, including the critic Harold Bloom and the novelist Ralph Ellison.
        In 1941 the poet W. H. Auden described Mr. Burke as "unquestionably the most brilliant and suggestive critic now writing in America," and the literary historian Malcolm Cowley called Mr. Burke "one of the truly speculative thinkers of his era."
        Mr. Burke received the National Medal for Literature and a $15,000 prize at the American Book Awards in 1981, which honored him "for a distinguished and continuing contribution to American letters." He became a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1951, and in 1966 he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters. An Informal Education
        Kenneth Duva Burke was born in Pittsburgh. He attended Ohio State and Columbia Universities but spurned formal education to study on his own. He settled in Greenwich Village around the time of World War I in a house filled with artists and writers, among them Stuart Davis and Djuna Barnes, and his poems and essays began appearing in literary journals.
        In 1922 he moved to a farm in Andover, where he continued to make his home even though he worked in New York and taught throughout the country. During his career, he translated such European writers as Thomas Mann, Oswald Spengler and Emil Ludwig, and he was a music critic for The Dial and The Nation. His first full-time job was teaching English on alternate weeks at Bennington College, where he stayed until 1961. He also taught briefly at Rutgers, Princeton, Harvard and other universities.
        The Kenneth Burke Society publishes a newsletter about the author from Bloomsburg University, Bloomsburg, Pa.
        Mr. Burke was married twice, first to Lilly Batterham, then to her sister, Elizabeth Batterham, both of whom are now dead. In addition to his son Michael, of Manhattan, he is survived by another son, Anthony, of Victoria, British Columbia; two daughters, Jeanne Elspeth Hart of Brooklyn and France Burke of Manhattan, and 12 grandchildren.
      