
        Gordon Wesley Fawcett, who with his three brothers built a publishing empire that included some of the most popular crime and romance magazines in the nation, died on Saturday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 81.
        He died of heart failure, said a son, Dennis Fawcett of Greenwich, Conn.
        Mr. Fawcett and his brothers became pioneers in developing the paperback book market.
        After their father Wilford Fawcett returned from World War I with a host of risque stories, which he had mimeographed, the four boys, Roger, Wilford, Roscoe, and Gordon, peddled the off-color material around their hometown of Minneapolis.  Profits and Circulation Rise
        By the mid-1920's the bawdy pamphlet, called Capt. Billy's Whiz Bang, had far outgrown the mimeograph machine. It was being printed professionally, had reached a circulation of 425,000 and was reporting a profit of $500,000 a year.
        As tastes for more slick magazines emerged, Whiz Bang folded and the brothers started and bought a series of magazines that would reach a combined circulation of 10 million a month from newsstand sales. They included Daring Detective, Startling Detective, Dynamic Detective, Movie Story, Motion Picture, Women's Day, True magazine and the enormously popular fiction posing as truth, True Confessions. True Confessions was to reach a circulation of almost two million a month.
        After World War II, Fawcett Publications was one of the first publishers to enter what was to be the revolutionary market of paperback books.
        Gordon Fawcett was born in Minneapolis and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1934. The following year he married the former Vivian Peterson and moved to Los Angeles to become office manager of Fawcett Publications.
        Titles in the family-owned business were determined by age, with only five years separating the four brothers. In 1940, when Mr. Fawcett, the next-to-youngest of the brothers, had the title of secretary-treasurer, the company moved to Greenwich. In 1977, Fawcett Publications was sold to CBS for $50 million in cash.
        In addition to his son Dennis, Mr. Fawcett is survived by two other sons, Gordon Jr. of San Diego, and David of Stuart, Fla.; a daughter, Vivian Creigh of Springfield, Vt., a brother Roscoe of Carefree, Ariz.; a sister, Marion Bagg of Kansas City, Mo., and 13 grandchildren.
      