
        S. C. Tsiang, an emeritus professor of economics at Cornell University and a principal architect of Taiwan's economic miracle died on Oct. 21 in Chicago. He was 75
        He had suffered a series of strokes, his family said.
        Sho-chieh Tsiang, a naturalized American citizen, was born to a wealthy diplomatic family in Shanghai in 1918.
        He studied economics at the London School of Economics in World War II and returned to China briefly to teach and work in the Chinese Central Bank. When the Communists came to power in 1949, Professor Tsiang fled to the United States, where he joined the International Monetary Fund. Persuaded Taiwan on Exports
        He helped shape the modern theory of how open economies work in a global framework. In the 1960's, he was a professor of economics at the University of Rochester. In 1969, he joined the faculty at Cornell and remained there until retiring in 1985. He was a pioneer in the theory of money flows and exchange-rate markets.
        But his great life's work lay in persuading the Taiwan Government in the 1960's and 1970's to adopt a free-market export-led strategy that eventually helped turned Taiwan into one the world's miracle economies.
        In the 1960's, when trade protection and self-sufficiency were the vogue in the developing world, Professor Tsiang promoted reliance on foreign trade. And at a time when many economists thought that governments in poor nations had to weild a heavy hand, Professor Tsiang favored low taxes and argued that markets should determine interest and exchange rates -- precisely what economists advocate in Eastern Europe today.
        "My father was an iconoclast," said his daughter Grace Tsiang, an economist at the University of Chicago. "He was advocating policies contrary to the Keynesian consensus of the time."
        Fond of quoting Mencius and other Chinese philosophers, Professor Tsiang's favorite parable -- which he used to express his laissez-faire views of economic development -- was the story of the impatient farmer who was so determined to make his crops grow that he tugged and tugged on his sprouts until he pulled them out of the ground and killed them. The good farmer, by contrast, cultivated his crops and then let them alone to grow. Led Taipei Institute
        After retiring from Cornell, Professor Tsiang served as president of the independent Chung-Hwa Institute for Economic Research in Taipei until becoming ill about a year ago.
        Robert Lucas, an economist at the University of Chicago, said: "He was an extremely soft-spoken, scholarly man, the last person in the world you'd think of arguing with government officials. But he was forceful in a quiet way. He had a lot of inner confidence."
        Professor Tsiang is survived by his wife, Hsi-tsin Tsiang, three daughters, Katherine Mino, Christina Shorr and Grace Tsiang, and five grandchildren. A memorial service was held in Taipei on Nov. 16.
      