
        Bernard V. Bothmer, a noted authority on ancient Egyptian art who was a professor at New York University and a former department chairman at the Brooklyn Museum, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother, Dietrich von Bothmer
        Bernard V. Bothmer was particularly known for his research and writing on the Late Period in ancient Egyptian art. At his death, he was the Lila Acheson Wallace Professor of Ancient Egyptian Art at the New York University Institute of Fine Arts.
        He was chairman of the department of Egyptian, classical and ancient Middle Eastern art at the Brooklyn Museum from 1977 to 1982. He joined the museum as an assistant curator in 1956 and went on to be a curator in 1963. Organized a Seminal Show
        Mr. Bothmer was the person mainly responsible for the museum's 1960 exhibition of Egyptian sculpture of the Late Period. Richard A. Fazzini, the current chairman of the department Mr. Bothmer headed, said yesterday that the show was "the seminal museum exhibition for the study of the art of that era," roughly from 750 B.C. to A.D. 100, "and the catalogue is still the basic publication." Mr. Bothmer was the catalogue's main author.
        His brother, who is Distinguished Research Curator of Greek and Roman Art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said that Bernard Bothmer had established a basic chronology for the development of Late Egyptian sculpture, "based on unrivaled personal acquaintance with just about every piece of Egyptian sculpture in the world."
        Mr. Bothmer was born in Berlin, and studied Egyptology at the universities of Berlin and Bonn. He was an assistant in the Egyptian department of the state museums in Berlin from 1932 to 1938. The next year, he left Germany because he opposed the Nazi regime.
        After coming to the United States, he worked for the Office of War Information and the War Department early in World War II and then in Army Intelligence in Europe until 1946.
        He was on the staff of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston before going to the Brooklyn Museum. He began teaching at New York University in 1960 and assumed the Wallace professorship in 1982. He taught until two weeks before his death.
        Mr. Bothmer's 1951 marriage to Geraldine Samuelson ended in divorce in 1981.
        In addition to his brother, of Manhattan, Mr. Bothmer is survived by his wife of 11 years, the former Norma Jean Koplin; a daughter, Marina Simmons, who lives outside Boston; a stepdaughter, Nina Katan of Manhattan, and a sister, Luise von Bothmer of Frankfurt.
        Correction:  November 29, 1993, Monday
        An obituary on Nov. 29 about Bernard V. Bothmer, a department chairman at the Brooklyn Museum, misstated the period he was in charge of ancient Middle Eastern art. It was mid-1979 to 1982.
      