
        Dr. David A. Hungerford, a co-discoverer of the first visible genetic abnormality in cancer cells, died on Wednesday at his home in Jenkintown, Pa. He was 66.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, said Eric Rosenthal, a spokesman for the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. He said Dr. Hungerford smoked cigarettes until about 10 years ago.
        Dr. Hungerford had been a senior researcher at the Institute for Cancer Research at Fox Chase until he retired in 1982, when multiple sclerosis limited his activities.
        He was born in Brockton, Mass., graduated from Temple University and received a Ph.D. in zoology from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He made his most important discovery before he had even received his doctorate. In 1959, while working as a research fellow at the cancer center with Dr. Peter C. Nowell of the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Hungerford found that a type of cancer of the blood called chronic granulocytic leukemia was linked to a shortened arm of one chromosome. The 23 pairs of rod-shaped chromosomes in human cells carry the genes. Philadelphi Chromosome
        The abnormality became known as the Philadelphia chromosome, after the city in which it was discovered. It is not inherited but remains throughout the course of the leukemia, even when the cancer is in remission.
        The finding focused attention on specific genetic changes underlying particular cancers, an avenue of research that led to the recent identification of tumor genes known as oncogenes. But the developments came slowly and, as it turned out, part of the original observation was wrong.
        "It took 10 years before other scientists improved techniques to identify similar specific genetic defects in other types of cancer, and an additional 10 years for the development of molecular biological techniques to try to identify the specific genes involved," Dr. Nowell said.
        But at the time, he said, "it was a discouraging observation" because "it demonstrated what a lot of people hoped wasn't true for common cancers -- that mutations did underlie certain cancers, and it was the first strong demonstration that cancer arose from a single altered cell."
        Until then, and even for a decade longer, many scientists held out hope that cancers arose from a nongenetic change in the cell because they believed it would be easier to manipulate in therapies, Dr. Nowell said.
        Discovery of the Philadelphia chromosome was one of many findings that have resulted from undirected research and serendipity, Dr. Nowell said. He said he was culturing leukemia cells in the laboratory in the hope that the growth characteristics might provide a clue to how cancers developed. He was working with samples in which "you could see the chromosomes, and this was just a couple of years after scientists had learned there were 46 human chromosomes, not 48, and I decided it was a shame to throw the samples away."
        Dr. Nowell looked around Philadelphia for someone to examine the chromosomes in the samples. He found Mr. Hungerford, then a graduate student in search of a thesis project. They collaborated, with Dr. Nowell supplying the cells from cancer patients and Mr. Hungerford using new staining techniques to examine the chromosomes systematically through a conventional microscope. Defect Missed Earlier
        They looked at other forms of leukemia before Mr. Hungerford spotted the tiny defect. "The finding was promptly confirmed by a group in Scotland who actually had looked and missed the finding a couple of years earlier," Dr. Nowell said.
        The Philadelphia researchers initially thought that the defect was on chromosome 21 and that it was a simple deletion. But other researchers later showed that the defect involved chromosome 22; there is an exchange of pieces of chromosomes 22 and 9, for an unknown reason, which turns on an oncogene. But scientists do not know how to stop or reverse the effect.
        Dr. Hungerford's later career was devoted to studying the structure and function of male sex chromosomes. In 1970, he described how the chromosome abnormality associated with Down's syndrome occurs.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice; a sister, Eleanor H. Gernert of Tallahassee, Fla.; a brother, Ralph E. Hungerford of El Cajon, Calif., two nieces and three nephews.
      