
        Prof. Oscar I. Janowsky, director of graduate studies in liberal arts and science at City College in the 1950's and a professor of history from 1924 until he retired in 1966, died on Thursday at Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J.
        He was 93 and lived in Jamesburg, N.J., his retirement home for more than 20 years. His family said the cause of death was a stroke.
        Professor Janowsky was one of the country's leading experts on Jewish education and minority rights. In more than 10 books, countless articles and lectures that he gave throughout the world, he was a champion of human rights and the development of Jewish culture in this country, as well as an authority on modern European history.
        He was a City College graduate and received his Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1933. In 1935 he was named a special adviser to the League of Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. He also served as chairman and director of the Commission for the Study of Jewish Education in the United States and was a member of the Commission to Study the Organization of Peace.
        In 1951 he was named director of graduate studies at City College with the goal of providing graduate training to students who could not afford to go on to graduate programs in private universities.
        Two years later, the National Jewish Welfare Board honored him with its Frank L. Weil Award for his "distinguished contribution to the development of an American Jewish culture."
        His books included "International Aspects of German Racial Policy" in 1937, "People at Bay" in 1938, "The American Jew" in 1942, "Nationalities and National Minorities" in 1946 and "Foundations of Israel, Emergence of a Welfare State" in 1959.
        He was a board member of the American Friends of Hebrew University and vice president of the American Jewish Historical Society.
        Professor Janowsky's first wife, Pauline, died in 1987. He is survived by his second wife, Lillian; two daughters, Sylvia Moskowitz of Jamesburg and Tamar Raab of Princeton; a son, Melvin Janowsky Namon, of Boynton Beach, Fla.; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      