
        Ely A. Landau, a television and film producer and production executive, died on Thursday at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, the Associated Press reported, citing a family friend, Martin Roberts.
        Mr. Landau won a Peabody Award for "Play of the Week," a series of stage plays mounted for television from 1959 to 1961 by WNTA-TV in New York. The station was then owned by National Telefilm Associates, a New York-based television distribution company which he organized in 1953.
        National Telefilm, which won praise for being innovative, distributed the series, for which Mr. Landau was primarily responsible. In a 1959 interview, he said: "With this I'm bucking the trend. But I don't think any independent station is going to succeed if it just does the westerns and crime and situation comedy shows that we find everywhere else."
        Mr. Landau was the producer of the 1962 film "Long Day's Journey into Night," with Katharine Hepburn, a screen rendering of the play by Eugene O'Neill. Mr. Landau also had roles, including executive producer and co-executive producer, in the production of a score of other films.
        And he compiled and produced a 177-minute television documentary, "King," an account of the public career of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The 1972 documentary was praised as achieving a density and shapeliness that would be rare in any movie, let alone a documentary committed to the sequence of actual events.
        Ely Abraham Landau was born in New York, the son of Max Landau and the former Esther Solomon. He served in the Air Force in World War II and then worked as a television director and producer for various companies. He was the president and chairman of National Telefilm from 1953 to 1961 and created the NTA Film Network in 1956.
        In the 1960's, he turned his hand to producing movies, and in 1972 he formed the American Film Theater, which in the 1970's, offered film versions of serious plays to subscription audiences in movie theaters. The films included "The Homecoming" in 1973 and "The Man in the Glass Booth" and "Galileo" in 1975.
        His wife of 34 years, the former Edythe Rein, is also a producer, with whom Mr. Landau collaborated in Edie & Ely Landau Inc., based in Los Angeles. Their films include "The Pawnbroker" (1965) and "The Chosen" (1981).
        He is survived by his wife; three sons, Neil, Les and Jon; two daughters, Kathy and Tina; five grandchildren, and three sisters.
      