
        Rene Pleven, a top official in the Free French movement in World War II who served twice as Prime Minister in the 1950's, died on Jan. 13 in Paris.  He was 91.
        His family said he died of heart failure.
        Mr. Pleven, a telephone company executive before the war, began his long political career by taking on some vital missions for de Gaulle's exiled forces against the Vichy regime in the 1940's. He scored an early coup in Africa by soliciting support for the Free French from Chad, Cameroon, Gabon and Congo, which were then French colonies. Service Under de Gaulle
        Recalled to London by de Gaulle in 1941, he was appointed national commissioner for the economy, finance, the colonies and foreign affairs of the general's French National Committee.
        As provisional commissioner for the colonies, Mr. Pleven presided over a 1944 conference in Brazzaville, the Congo, where delegates drafted a more liberal policy that lent some momentum to independence movements in equatorial Africa.
        After France's liberation, he became Minister of the Economy and Finance and helped set the country's postwar course. He instituted policies leading to the first postwar devaluation of the franc but also some painful inflation as he resisted more radical proposals to restructure French industry. Postwar Political Career
        Despite his early ties to de Gaulle, Mr. Pleven broke with him politically and was a founder of the small Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance party. He served as party president from 1946 to 1953, when he resigned to protest its endorsement of Vietnam peace talks. His successor was his longtime rival, Francois Mitterrand. Later Mr. Pleven was allied with a series of small centrist parties.
        Mr. Pleven was elected a legislator from the Cotes-du-Nord region in 1945 and would keep his seat for nearly three decades. He held several Cabinet posts under the tumultuous Fourth Republic, including Defense Minister from 1949 to 1950.
        He was Prime Minister from July 1950 to February 1951, as power in the National Assembly was shifting toward the right, and again from August 1951 to January 1952, when he resigned in a dispute over budget deficits.  Backer of European Unity
        An ardent proponent of European unity, he won ratification of the European Coal and Steel Community, the precursor of the European Community. But his proposal for the European Defense Community, with a rearmed Germany, was defeated by opposition from Gaullists, Socialists and Communists in 1954.
        The same year brought another historic setback. He was a hard-liner on French colonial rule in Southeast Asia.  In 1954, when he was Defense Minister, the French stronghold at Dien Bien Phu fell to Vietnamese forces, signaling the beginning of the end of French hegemony in the region. Newspaper in Brittany
        After losing re-election as a legislator in 1973, Mr. Pleven became president of a regional development council in his native Brittany.
        Born in Rennes on April 15, 1901, he earned a law degree from the University of Paris. After failing an examination for the financial corps of the civil service, he went to work in Canada and the United States, rising to become a telephone company executive in Canada and later in England.
        His wife of 42 years, the former Anne Bompard, died in 1966. He is survived by two daughters, Francoise and Nicole, and eight grandchildren.
      