
        Leon Theremin, the inventor of the electronic instrument that bears his name, died on Wednesday in Moscow. He was 97.
        The theremin, one of the first electronic instruments, looks like a radio receiver with a vertical antenna on top and a horizontal metal loop on the side. It is played by moving the right hand in the air near the antenna. The pitch varies according to the hand's distance from the antenna. The volume is controlled by moving the left hand back and forth in front of the metal loop. In effect, it was the first synthesizer.
        Harold C. Schonberg, then the chief music critic for The Times, heard Mr. Theremin play the instrument in Moscow in 1967. He described the sound as "not unlike an eerie, throbbing voice" or "a cello lost in a dense fog and crying because it does not know how to get home." Most listeners know it as the special sound effect in the Beach Boys song "Good Vibrations."
        Mr. Theremin, whose Russian name was Lev Sergeyevich Termen (pronounced term-YEN), invented the theremin in 1920, a year after becoming head of the laboratory of electrical oscillators in the Physico-Technical Institute in Petrograd, now St. Petersburg. Initially, he called it the etherophone, and he demonstrated it for Lenin in 1922 in the Kremlin.
        In 1927, after demonstrating the instrument in Berlin to an audience that included Albert Einstein and the conductor Bruno Walter, he traveled to New York, where he gave "ether-wave" concerts. He was granted a United States patent on the device in 1928 under the name of the thereminvox. RCA bought the manufacturing rights, and sold about a thousand sets. Studied Physics and Music
        Mr. Theremin was born in St. Petersburg, where he studied physics and astronomy at the university and the cello and music theory at the conservatory. He continued his studies in physics at the Physico-Technical Institute.
        While in New York, he created the Theremin Laboratory, where he worked on many inventions. These included the Terpsitone, or "theremin ether wave musical dance platform," on which dancers' movements produce corresponding musical sounds; the Rhythmicon, a device, paid for by Charles Ives, that played different rhythms simultaneously or separately, and an electronic security system that was installed at Sing Sing penitentiary.
        In the 1930's he married Lavinia Williams, a ballerina with the First American Negro Ballet.
        In 1938, under circumstances that remain unclear, he returned to the Soviet Union, where he was convicted of anti-Soviet propaganda and sentenced to seven years' imprisonment in Magadan, Siberia.
        During the war, he was moved to Tomsk, where he did secret work on remote-control aircraft and systems for tracking ships behind enemy lines.
        Mr. Theremin also invented a miniature electronic eavesdropping device that the K.G.B. immediately put to use. For this invention he was secretly awarded the Stalin Prize and released from prison.
        He worked as a scientist for the K.G.B. in Moscow until the early 1960's. In 1964 he was named a professor of acoustics at the Moscow Conservatory, but lost his post after the article on him by Mr. Schonberg appeared in The Times. He later found work as a technician at an electronics institute in Moscow.
        A new documentary about his life, "The Electronic Odyssey of Leon Theremin," by Steven M. Martin, was shown on British television last week.  Mr. Theremin remarried after the war. He is survived by twin daughters from that marriage, Natalya and Helena Termen of Moscow, and two granddaughters.
      