
        Anthony T. Vaccarello, who served as the New York City Commissioner of Sanitation for three years in the 1970's and shocked New Yorkers in 1977 when he called them "a bunch of slobs," died on Monday in North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 67.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, Robert.
        Mr. Vaccarello served under Mayors Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch, fighting a losing battle in his effort to clean up the city. He railed against municipal incompetence and what he regarded as the ingrained messiness of New Yorkers themselves.
        Mr. Beame named Mr. Vaccarello as a special assistant to oversee sanitation problems in 1975 after the Sanitation Department became enmeshed in a series of scandals involving slow snow removal, slow garbage collection, low worker productivity and administrative mismanagement.
        Mr. Vaccarello was named commissioner shortly afterward and won praise for aggressively seeking to clean up the city. After a year as Commissioner, he characterized the Sanitation Department's efforts as "below rock bottom."
        Taking a different tack, he then tried, through a one-man crusade in which he walked the streets pleading for help, to shame New Yorkers into action. But he was forced to concede defeat.
        In 1976, he said, "I felt all alone out there, particularly when the stark reality sunk home to me that there are over seven million people out there who don't know anything about keeping our city clean -- and furthermore don't give a damn."
        After 25 years in municipal service, in which he started as a low-level political aide in the Brooklyn borough president's office, Mr. Vaccarello left in 1978 to become a business executive. He eventually became a senior vice president of the DeMatteis Organization, a construction company in Elmont, L.I.
        Mr. Vaccarello, who made his home in Brooklyn, is survived by his wife Josephine; his son, Robert, of Brooklyn,; three brothers, Christopher of Brooklyn, Carmine of Smithtown, L.I., and Victor of Wantaugh, L.I.; three sisters, Josephine Therien of Cherry Hill, N.J., Angelina Savino of Tappan, N.Y., and Ann Adams of Staten Island, and two granddaughters.
      