
        John Gilbert Winant Jr., who attracted international attention when he was captured by the Germans during World War II while his father was the United States Ambassador to Britain, died on Sunday at Princeton Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Princeton.
        He had had a long illness, his family said.
        From 1979 until his death Mr. Winant was a limited partner in the Wall Street firm of Wellington & Company. Earlier, he was a partner and managing partner at Henderson, Harrison & Company for 11 years. Before that he was associated with National City Bank, now Citibank, from 1951 to 1966.
        Mr. Winant's father, John Gilbert Winant, was also a three-term Republican Governor of New Hampshire and Director General of the International Labor Office in Geneva.
        The son was born in New York City and was attending Princeton University as a 21-year-old sophomore in 1942 when he enlisted in the United States Army Air Force. A first lieutenant, he served as a B-17 pilot in the Eighth Air Force based in England.
        On his 13th combat mission, a bombardment of the German city of Munster, his Flying Fortress was shot down. He was reported missing-in-action in October 1943, and his fate made headlines on both sides of the Atlantic.
        Lieutenant Winant was captured and held by the Germans in a camp in which they sequestered leading politicians and other notables from occupied countries. He and the other foreigners became the personal hostages of the Nazi S.S. leader Heinrich Himmler, who was said to have ordered them to be taken to the Black Forest and executed.
        But the commander in charge of the operation heeded a Red Cross demand for safe passage through German lines aboard its vehicles. Lieutenant Winant reached an American command post in Austria on May 7, 1945, during the last few days of the war.
        Mr. Winant then enrolled in Balliol College, Oxford University, from which he graduated in 1947. Last year, he endowed a Lectureship in American Foreign Policy at Oxford and named it in memory of his father, who died in 1947.
        Mr. Winant is survived by his wife of 46 years, Janine Perret Winant; two sons, Dr. John G. of Princeton, and Marion E. of Plainsboro, N.J.; a brother, Rivington of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      