
        Maurice Cranston, a British professor who was a leading interpreter of the political philosophers of the 17th and 18th centuries, died last Friday in London. He was 73.
        He had a heart attack while recording a television program for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation about the recently published memoirs of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
        He was a professor of Political Science at the London School of Economics from 1969 to 1985. His specialty was Rousseau. But he also delved into contemporary thought, as in the study of Jean-Paul Sartre he published in 1962 and a collection called "Western Political Philosophers" he edited two years later.
        He wrote two books on freedom and human rights before achieving prominence in 1957 with "John Locke: a Biography." His book about Locke, the 17th-century British doctor-philosopher, won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in Britain. It was published the same year in the United States by Macmillan.
        Professor Cranston was born in London, the son of a theatrical manager, and in his younger years was a freelance writer and film critic. He received his education at the University of London and St. Catherine's College, Oxford.
        He lectured at the University of London throughout the 1950's and joined the London School of Economics as a lecturer and reader of political science, becoming a full professor 10 years later.
        He lectured, in French, in France and Quebec. In the United States, he was visiting professor at the University of California in 1976 and again from 1986 until last year. He had also served as a visiting professor at Harvard University, Dartmouth College and the University of British Columbia.
        He was named a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1970. He was also a regular contributor of literary features to the BBC.
        Professor Cranston is survived by his wife of 35 years, Baroness Maximiliana von und zu Fraunberg. They had two sons, Nicholas and Stephen.
      