
        Erskine Hawkins, the band leader, trumpeter and composer whose band was best known for its renditions of "Tuxedo Junction," "After Hours" and "Tippin' In," died on Thursday at his home in Willingboro, N.J. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, said his nephew, John Hawkins.
        Mr. Hawkins led one of the great bands of the swing era, an orchestra that played with smooth grace and featured inspired soloists. Its popularity was such that the band, after taking over from Chick Webb at the Savoy in the late 1930's, stayed there nearly a decade. Part of its success was due to Mr. Hawkins's exceptional high-note trumpet playing; his publicity nickname was the 20th-Century Gabriel.
        Mr. Erskine was born in Birmingham, Ala., and played drums and trombone before taking up the trumpet. As a student at Alabama State Teachers College in Montgomery, he became the leader of the college band, the 'Bama State Collegians, which produced many major big-band jazz musicians. Mr. Hawkins and the band moved to New York in 1934, changing the band's name to the Erskine Hawkins Orchestra a few years later. Succecss in New York
        In New York, he and the band worked at the Apollo Theater, the Ubangi Club and the Harlem Opera House. They were then picked up by a major booking agency, which sent them on national tours, including one headlined by Lincoln Perry, better known as the black comic film character Stepin Fetchit. The band later moved into the Savoy.
        Much of the band's success stemmed from its exceptional musicians, which included the saxophonists Paul Bascomb, Julian Dash and Haywood Henry, the pianist Avery Parrish and the trumpeter Dud Bascomb. The musicians, who had come together in college, formed the core of the band.
        After the swing era, Mr. Hawkins trimmed the size of his band and delved occasionally into rhythm-and-blues. He appeared with a small band at the Concord Hotel in the Catskills for more than 20 years and continued to perform into the 1980's. "Basically," he said in a 1988 interview, "you try to give the same effort for 2,000 people or 20. That's the way I was brought up."
        He is survived by a sister, Rosa Weaver of Birmingham.
      