
        Clarence LeRoy Holte, who assembled what was thought to be the largest private collection of books on black history and culture, died on Friday in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Holte was 85 and lived in Oakland.
        He died of heart failure, said his daughter, Dr. Helen Holte-Fields.
        In six decades of collecting, Mr. Holte assembled more than 8,000 titles, specializing in books about Africa and the African diaspora. Searching out and buying books at roadside stalls and from street vendors and local bookstores, Mr. Holte concentrated on titles not commonly known. Many of the books in his collection were first editions, and the oldest volumes dated to the 16th century.
        In 1977 Mr. Holte sold his first collection of more than 7,000 volumes to Ahmadu Bello University in Zaria, Nigeria. Until then, the collection was housed on floor-to-ceiling shelves on most of the walls in his apartment in Washington Heights, Manhattan.  A Variety of Jobs
        Mr. Holte was born in Norfolk, Va., on Feb. 19, 1909. He studied at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. He worked as a teller at Dunbar National Bank in Harlem in the 1930's before joining the Works Progress Administration. In 1944 he was hired as a sales representative for Lever Brothers Company. In 1952 he joined the advertising agency Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn as an ethnic marketing specialist. Mr. Holte was among the first blacks to rise to the executive level in a general-market advertising agency. In his work at B.B.D.& O. he traveled often to Europe and Africa, which allowed him to expand considerably the sources for his collection.
        In 1979 the Clarence L. Holte Literary Prize was created to recognize work dealing with the cultural heritage of blacks. The award is made every two years; the most recent recipient, Arnold Rampersad, won in 1988 for his biography "The Life of Langston Hughes, Vol. I, 1902-1941, I, Too, Sing of America," published in 1986 by Oxford University Press. No prize was awarded in 1990 or 1992.
        In 1981 Lincoln University awarded him an honorary doctorate degree.
        Mr. Holte moved to Oakland in 1991 after the death of his wife, Audrey M. Proctor Holte.
        He is survived, in addition to his daughter, by two grandchildren, Frank Holte Fields and Audrey Anna Leslie Fields, also of Oakland.
      