
        Robert F. Wagner Jr., the gentle 49-year-old scion of a family that defined New York politics for three generations, died suddenly on Monday in a hotel room in Texas, where he was researching a book on urban America.
        An autopsy performed yesterday morning was inconclusive, and it may take several weeks before tissue samples can be used to determine the cause of the former New York City deputy mayor's sudden death in San Antonio, the chief medical investigator there said.
        The official, Steven Hanson, said that by all indications the death was due to natural causes and did not involve either foul play or suicide. Mr. Wagner, who had been complaining for two days of serious flu-like symptoms, was found dead in his hotel room by a friend who had accompanied him to San Antonio.  Working on a Book
        The friend, Thomas Vitullo-Martin, whose wife, Julia, was working with Mr. Wagner on a book about the future of American cities, said Mr. Wagner had been tired but in good spirits when the three of them left New York City on Saturday afternoon.
        Last month Mr. Wagner bolted the Democratic Party for only the second time in his public life -- the first was to support a judge -- and inserted an unexpected endorsement of Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal mayoral challenger, into an oration on the history of the Liberal Party.
        Since the election, Mr. Wagner had been serving as senior policy adviser to the Mayor-elect -- a role he had performed publicly and privately for New York mayors and governors for two decades -- and was prepared to return to government either as a deputy mayor in the job he had previously enjoyed most, as chairman of the City Planning Commission.
        His sudden death shocked friends and colleagues. "We were having a good time on the plane ride down there Saturday, joking about the Notre Dame game, but he said he wasn't feeling 100 percent," Mrs. Vitullo-Martin said. "After we arrived, he started to look worse. He said he definitely didn't want to go out for Texas barbecue."
        Mr. Wagner remained in his hotel room on Sunday and seemed worse when Mr. Vitullo-Martin visited him that evening to bring him a thermometer. He did not want to call a doctor, Mrs. Vitullo-Martin said.
        Mr. Wagner had suffered a severe bout with pneumonia two years ago. A close family friend said Mr. Wagner had been taking Prozac, an antidepressant. Empty bottles of cola, which he may have been drinking to settle his stomach, were found in the hotel room.
        Mr. Wagner, the son of a three-term New York City Mayor and the grandson of a United States Senator who gave his name to New Deal labor law, had been groomed for a political career even before he grew up in Gracie Mansion, the mayor's official residence, as the heir to a Democratic dynasty. But he was shy and uncomfortable with self-promotion and held only one elective office himself, as a City Councilman elected at large from Manhattan. A Succession of Posts
        Though he was slow to anger or to form a conclusion and seemingly so vulnerable that even critics felt protective, Mr. Wagner left a remarkable imprint on government. He served in a succession of appointive posts under Mayor Edward I. Koch as Deputy Mayor for Policy, chairman of the City Planning Commission, president of the Health and Hospitals Corporation and president of the Board of Education, where he welded a seven-member board appointed by six officials into cohesive consensus.
        Mr. Koch's choice of Mr. Wagner as Schools Chancellor in 1983 was rejected by the State Education Commissioner, who said Mr. Wagner lacked the necessary educational requirements and did not have enough administrative experience to warrant a waiver.
        Many of Mr. Wagner's contributions to politics and public policy were made more privately, though, as a scholar and as an adviser, sounding board and friend to countless officials in the city, state and Federal governments whose demands and requests he never refused. At his death, he was also chairman of Citizens Union, the century-old civic group. A Routine Speech
        His endorsement of Mr. Giuliani came with a typical lack of showmanship, slipped into what was expected to be a routine speech to the annual dinner of the Liberal Party, with which he and his father had been closely associated.
        "I'm a Democrat and very proud of that, but more than that I'm a New Yorker and I believe that the stakes in this election are incredibly important," Mr. Wagner said after consulting with students in his urban planning seminar at Columbia University that afternoon but without notifying Mr. Giuliani in advance. "Over the last year I've gotten to know Rudy Giuliani and realize he's a very different person than the one who comes across in the news columns and sometimes on television. He's not cold or mean."
        Later, he taped a television advertisement explaining his defection.
        At his death, Mr. Wagner was vice chairman of LH Research, a polling firm that he and Louis Harris founded last year, was writing the book for the 20th Century Fund and was Mr. Giuliani's senior policy adviser.
        He said recently that the only job he might want in local government was to return as chairman of the City Planning Commission, a post in which he balanced his skills as a negotiator to achieve consensus and as a strategist to articulate a vision for his city that extended well beyond the term of any administration he might be serving. It was also a position his father had held.
        Earlier he had also expressed interest in joining the Clinton Administration, perhaps as an associate of his friend Donna E. Shalala, the Health and Human Services Secretary, or in another policy role in which his perspective on urban America could be tapped. 'A Son of New York'
        "Bobby Wagner was a son of New York," Mayor-elect Giuliani said after Mr. Wagner's death. "He possessed vast knowledge of the city's history and exceptional vision for the city's future." Mr. Giuliani characterized Mr. Wagner as "a leader of persistent civility, courage and care."
        Mayor David N. Dinkins said: "The city has lost one of its most distinguished public servants. It has lost one of its devoted citizens. His contribution to our city will be greatly missed."
        Henry J. Stern, the former Parks Commissioner, who served with Mr. Wagner in the City Council, said, "Bob, in city government and with his friends, showed reason, fairness and concern for others rather than himself." "No one in public life was better liked than Bob Wagner," Mr. Stern said. He recalled Mr. Koch's lament that "Bobby and I do the same things, but why do they just pick on me?"
        Mr. Wagner's stepmother, Phyllis Cerf Wagner, praised him as "an uncomplaining person."
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said Mr. Wagner "carried on a family tradition of service for which we are all indebted."
        Ms. Shalala, the Health Secretary, said yesterday that Mr. Wagner "brought to his service a brilliant intellect, a graceful pen, a sense of history and a thoughtfulness that was unmatched." Added the Junior
        Born on Jan. 6, 1944, the son of Mayor Wagner and his first wife, Susan, Robert Ferdinand Wagner 3d, as he was originally known (he adopted the Jr. when his father dropped it, but was known as Bobby), later wavered between journalism and politics as a career. He had written editorials for The Harvard Crimson and later worked at The New York Post. But public life staked its claim on him early.
        And it often left him lonely despite the unending calls for counsel. Richard Ravitch, a friend who was chairman of the city's Charter Revision Commission and once headeed the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said Mr. Wagner "obviously suffered from a lot of things for a long time, and it's a tragedy that he couldn't have led a longer and happier life."
        Mr. Wagner's diffidence was legendary. Friends recalled with amusement that he was 1 1/2 years old before he met his father who was overseas when Robert was born.
        Mr. Wagner was 9 years old when his father was first elected Mayor, and his first official act, two years earlier, was to help his father, who was then Borough President, at a ribbon-cutting to open the tunnel under Battery Park in lower Manhattan. He was also a Democratic National Convention page in the mid-1950's. A Harvard Graduate
        Educated at the Buckley School in Manhattan and at Phillips Exeter Academy, he graduated from Harvard University in 1965, attended the University of Sussex in Britain and earned a master's degree in public administration from Princeton University.
        Years later, considering a race for the State Senate, he was catapulted into the spotlight again as chairman of a contrivance called the Citizens Committee to Repeal the Hot Dog Tax, and dutifully, if self-consciously, delivered to Albany more than a million petition signatures protesting the extension of the sales tax to restaurant meals under $1. The tax was not repealed, but the publicity helped elect Mr. Wagner a Democratic Councilman at Large from Manhattan in 1973.
        "Having a name and being the third generation places a certain responsibility on me," he said at the time. "I don't want to lose. I would have a sense of not just letting myself down; I'd be letting a tradition down."
        In 1977, he barely lost the Democratic primary for Manhattan borough president in a race against Andrew J. Stein, the son of a wealthy New Yorker, Jerry Finkelstein. Trailing them in the primary was Mr. Dinkins. Challenging Jobs
        "If he hadn't lost for borough president," Louis Harris said last night, "he might well have run for the Senate."
        After Mr. Koch won the mayoralty in 1977, Mr. Wagner was named to one challenging job after another, as if confronting a series of biblical tests, but maintained that he had no interest in becoming mayor himself.
        "Being mayor is not a job I've ever been interested in," he said. "After all, I've already lived in Gracie Mansion for 12 years."
        Mr. Wagner, who never married, is survived by his younger brother, Duncan, his stepmother and two stepbrothers.
        A funeral service has been scheduled for 10 A.M. on Friday at St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan. Today and tomorrow, visiting hours for the public are from 6 to 8 P.M. at the Frank E. Campbell funeral home on Madison Avenue at 82d Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Robert F. Wagner Jr. Scholarship Fund at the Wagner School of Public Service at New York University at 4 Washington Square North, New York, N.Y. 10003.
      