
        Don G. Mitchell, a former executive of the Sylvania Electric Products, General Telephone and General Time Corporations, died on Monday at his home in New Vernon, N.J. He was 88.
        The cause of death was a heart condition, his family said.
        Mr. Mitchell was also a familiar figure in numerous corporate boardrooms as an outside director. His work with the American Management Association spanned five decades, during which he held many positions, including chairman of the executive committee and board chairman. Math and Basketball
        Mr. Mitchell, who was born in Bayonne, N.J., graduated from the University of Florida, where he showed an early talent for mathematics and played on the basketball team. His first employment in 1926 was with the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, for which he opened a market in the field of industrial development.
        That led him to the post of director of industrial development for the Niagara Hudson Power Company. By 1933, at the age of 28, he was chief of the marketing division at the American Can Company.
        In 1937 he became general sales manager at Marshall Field & Company, and two years later the Pepsi-Cola Company named him vice president of sales with the task of seeking to turn Pepsi, then relatively new and a distant second to Coca-Cola, into a national product. Chairman of Sylvania
        His association with Sylvania began in 1942 as vice president of sales. Mr. Mitchell was elected president of Sylvania in 1946 and chairman in 1950. After its merger with General Telephone and Electronics in 1959, he became president of General Telephone. He resigned in 1962 but for the next five years held top posts at General Time, including that of chairman.
        He was a director on 30 corporate boards, including Irving Trust, National Biscuit, American Motors, Sheraton and Marriott. He was also a supporter of many charities.
        He was the author of "Top Man -- Reflections of a Chief Executive" (American Management Association, 1970).
        He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Constance Walcutt Mitchell; two daughters, Judith M. Davis of New Vernon and Constance Sayre of Iowa City; a brother, Theodore E., of Sun City, Ariz.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      