
        Joseph H. Ball, who served eight years in the Senate in the 1940's as a maverick Republican crusading for the United Nations and against organized labor, died on Saturday at the Bethesda Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88.
        He had had a stroke, said a daughter, Sara Lister.
        In 1940, Mr. Ball was a political writer for The St. Paul Dispatch when he was unexpectedly appointed to the vacant Senate seat of Ernest Lundeen, who had been killed in a plane crash.  Minnesota's Governor, Harold E. Stassen, passed over veteran Republican politicians to select Mr. Ball, who was 34 and had never held elective office.
        Mr. Ball and Mr. Stassen were later to have a bitter falling out when in 1944, over Mr. Stassen's objections, Mr. Ball campaigned for the election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt to a fourth term.
        In 1942 Mr. Ball won election to a full six-year term. Politically he was unpredictable, supporting legislation many Republicans opposed, including the Lend-Lease Act, repeal of the Neutrality Act, extension of the Selective Service Act and wage and price controls.
        Starting in 1943, he was among the first nationally known Republicans to campaign for the creation of what was to become the United Nations.
        After World War II, he drew the enmity of organized labor by backing the Taft-Hartley Act, which outlawed agreements allowing the hiring only of union membersunder closed-shop agreements and limited strikes in industries involved in interstate commerce. He also introduced bills to curb what he perceived as abuses of union power.
        When he sought a second full term in 1948, he was denounced as a political reactionary by President Harry S. Truman and defeated by Hubert H. Humphrey, then the Mayor of Minneapolis. During the 1950's, Mr. Ball came to the public defense of several people whom Senator Joseph R. McCarthy accused of having Communist leanings.
        After his defeat Mr. Ball worked for a decade as a merchant shipping executive. About 30 years ago moved to a farm near Front Royal, Va.
        He is survived by two daughters, Mrs. Lister of Washington and Jennifer Hulsizer of Rochester, Minn.
      