
        Arthur E. Palmer, a former New York City Transportation Administrator and a retired environmental lawyer and consultant, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of pneumonia and heart failure, his family said.
        Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed Mr. Palmer in 1966 to centralize the city's transportation agencies. His two-year tenure included disputes over major proposals like the Manhattan, Cross-Brooklyn and Staten Island Expressways and a third tube for the Queens-Midtown Tunnel.
        More significant, he waged battles on the future of metropolitan transportation and a bitter power struggle with Robert Moses, the legendary planner and builder.
        The Mayor dismissed Mr. Moses as the city's arterial coordinator, replacing him with Mr. Palmer. Mr. Lindsay also named Mr. Palmer to the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority board and tried to remove Mr. Moses as chairman.
        Mr. Moses remained chairman. Mr. Palmer was also disappointed when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller passed over him to choose William Ronan as chairman of the new Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
        For the rest of his career, Mr. Palmer advised local governments and environmental organizations on land use, planning and the environment. He worked with the lawyers Victor Yannacone and David Sive and with the Scientists' Institute for Public Information. He also wrote a textbook, "Toward Eden" (1981).
        Born in Lansing, Mich., Mr. Palmer grew up in Cleveland. He won a scholarship to Yale, where he waited on tables and was voted student president and best all-around athlete.
        After graduation in 1930, he spent a year reading and traveling to the Soviet Union, Iran, Burma, India and China. Returning to Yale, he graduated from law school in 1935 with honors and was editor of the law journal.
        In the early 1940's he served as assistant general counsel in the Lend-Lease Administration and special assistant to Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson.
        His marriage to Baroness Karin von Vietnighoff Riesch ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Julia Reed; two sons, Lansing of Manhattan and Stewart of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; a daughter, Constance Hildesley of Manhattan; a brother, Douglas of Seattle; a sister, Margaret Herold of Boulder, Colo., and five grandchildren.
      