
        Bernard T. Feld, a physicist who helped Enrico Fermi develop the atomic bomb but then became so horrified by its destructive power that he spent much of his life working to end the arms race, died yesterday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 73.
        He had lymphoma, said his wife, Ellen Banks Feld, a painter.
        Mr. Feld was a leader of the Pugwash movement, founded in 1957 as a forum for scientists to alert the world to the peril of nuclear war. As a professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he often met with his counterparts from the Soviet Union to rally support for arms agreements.
        He wrote dozens of opinion articles and letters to editorial pages assailing governments around the world for their failure to reduce stocks of nuclear weapons. He was a fierce and vocal opponent of President Ronald Reagan's arms buildup in the 1980's. 'The Original Sin'
        "I was involved in the original sin," he said in 1982, "and I have spent a large part of the rest of my life atoning."
        Mr. Feld was born on Dec. 21, 1919, in East New York, Brooklyn. He attended City College and received his doctorate in physics from Columbia University. During World War II he worked as an assistant to Fermi and Leo Szilard at the University of Chicago and the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico.
        After the United States dropped atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, he left Government research to push for the creation of a civilian nuclear agency. He helped establish the Federation of American Scientists, one of the first groups dedicated to controlling nuclear weapons.
        He was president of the Albert Einstein Peace Foundation and editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, which printed the widely watched "doomsday clock," a symbolic representation of how close the world was to nuclear war.
        Mr. Feld's essays on the peace movement were compiled in a book, "A Voice Crying in the Wilderness" (Pergamon Press, 1979). He retired from M.I.T in 1990.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Ellen Feld of Philadelphia and Elizabeth Feld of Cambridge, Mass., and three brothers, Maury, of Cambridge, Marvin, of Tucson, Ariz., and Myron, of Los Angeles.
      