
        William L. Shirer, the author of "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich" and a foreign correspondent whose pioneering live trans-Atlantic radio broadcasts on the eve of World War II helped inform Americans about Nazi Germany, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 89 years old and lived in Lenox, Mass.
        His daughter Inga Dean of Lenox said he had been hospitalized since Dec. 5 with heart ailments, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Shirer personified the hard-boiled Chicago style of journalism in the 1920's and 30's. But he was also a scholar fluent in German, French and Italian.
        As a foreign correspondent in Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Amsterdam, Geneva, Rome, Vienna, the Balkans, the Middle East and India, he came to know world leaders, was frequently in the thick of things and occasionally made news himself. Wrote History in Later Years
        While reporting the 1936 Olympics from Berlin, he was publicly condemned by Joseph Goebbels's propaganda ministry for exposing Nazi anti-Semitism.
        "All Jew baiting is officially off in Germany during the Olympics," he wrote, because Hitler meant to turn the games into "a huge propaganda triumph." Mr. Shirer was accused of being a "German hater" and was threatened with expulsion.
        In his later years, when he devoted himself to writing European history and his multivolume autobiography, "20th Century Journey: A Memoir of a Life and the Time," Mr. Shirer drew analogies between his past reporting experiences and present-day events. His popular 1960 history, "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich," traced the evils of Nazi Germany for millions of readers.
        Mr. Shirer was also active in protecting the rights of writers. He served as president of the Authors Guild in the 1950's and remained an ex-officio member of the guild council until his death. From Sports to Lindbergh
        William Lawrence Shirer was born in Chicago on Feb. 23, 1904, and received his early education in Chicago and in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. While studying at Coe College there, he got his first job in journalism as a sports reporter for The Cedar Rapids Republican. He graduated from Coe in 1925 and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        Upon graduation, he left for Europe, working his way over by pitching hay on a cattle boat. Instead of returning home to what he called the land of "Prohibition, fundamentalism, puritanism and Coolidgeism," he went to work on the copy desk of the Paris edition of The Chicago Tribune. His seatmates there included James Thurber and Elliot Paul. He took courses in European history at the College de France and, in 1927, became European correspondent of The Chicago Tribune.
        Among the events he covered were Charles A. Lindbergh's solo flight across the Atlantic in 1927, the League of Nations sessions in Geneva and international sports events. From 1929 to 1932, he served in Vienna as chief of The Chicago Tribune's Central European bureau. His most challenging years were still ahead of him.
        Roving around India and Afghanistan in 1930 and 1931, he began a long association with Mohandas K. Gandhi. "I spent much of my time traveling up and down the land with him," he said.
        A skiing accident in the Alps in 1932 cost Mr. Shirer the sight in one eye. He left The Chicago Tribune and spent the next year as a free-lance writer in a fishing village in Spain. He and his Viennese wife, the former Theresa Stiberitz (they were married in 1931 and divorced in 1970), shared a house with the guitarist Andres Segovia.
        In 1934, Mr. Shirer returned to Paris and went to work as the European correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune. He moved to Berlin in 1935 as a correspondent for Universal News Service. He remained at that post until William Randolph Hearst disbanded the service in 1937. Job Offer From Murrow
        During those years, Mr. Shirer did occasional broadcasts for CBS Radio. In 1937, Edward R. Murrow, the chief of the network's new foreign staff in London, invited him to open an office in Vienna to report on the Continent. Turning down offers from American newspapers, Mr. Shirer began a second career as a broadcaster.
        At first, William S. Paley, who founded CBS, insisted that Mr. Murrow and Mr. Shirer merely arrange for the broadcasts and use newspaper correspondents to go on the air. As Mr. Shirer noted in his memoirs, Mr. Paley contended that "for us to do the reporting ourselves would be to commit ourselves editorially." Eventually the network gave in, and the Murrow-Shirer broadcasts from London and the Continent made history.
        Until 1941 and the German occupation of much of Europe, Mr. Shirer roamed from one capital to another, reporting on Hitler and the brutality of Nazism and Fascism. His observations of these tumultuous times later resulted in two books that served as warnings about totalitarianism: "Berlin Diary: The Journal of a Foreign Correspondent, 1934-1941," and his major work, "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich." History, Novels and Memoirs
        Mr. Shirer's other books included "End of a Berlin Diary" (1947), "The Western World Through Its Years of Conflict" (1952), "The Collapse of the Third Republic" (1969), "Gandhi: A Memoir" (1980), three volumes of memoirs, and several novels and books for juveniles.
        Critics and readers considered his popular history outstanding. Writing about "The Collapse of the Third Republic," the syndicated book columnist John Barkham commented: "To waste no time about it, William Shirer has written as penetrating a history of the fall of France in World War II as he did of the decline and fall of Hitler's thousand-year Reich. Shirer is both a historian and journalist who brings an eyewitness record to his books."
        Commenting on "The Nightmare Years," the second volume of Mr. Shirer's memoirs, John Chancellor, the NBC News correspondent, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1984: "Mr. Shirer says that it was just a 'lucky break' that he was in Europe when the big events happened. Well, there is a saying in journalism: There are lazy reporters and there are lucky reporters, but there are no lazy lucky reporters. Mr. Shirer deserved his reporting triumphs."
        Mr. Shirer continued to arouse controversy when the third volume of his memoirs, "A Native's Return," covering 1945 to 1988, was published in 1990. Former broadcasting colleagues challenged some of his assertions about why he was taken off the air by CBS.
        In the book, Mr. Shirer wrote that he was relieved of his news analysis program in 1947, when he left CBS, because his liberal views displeased a sponsor and that Mr. Murrow as vice president for news and public affairs did not defend him to CBS management. The book is particularly critical of Mr. Paley. Defending Mr. Murrow, some CBS producers said the reason for Mr. Shirer's departure was that his ratings had declined. Mr. Shirer's criticism after he left CBS caused a rift in his friendship with Mr. Murrow, although in later years, Mr. Shirer wrote, they renewed their relationship.
        After "A Native's Return" appeared, he also entered a dispute with his longtime publisher, Little, Brown, because of what he considered inadequate promotion. Mr. Shirer spent $17,000 of his own money to advertise his book in several newspapers. Mr. Shirer said that when the ads appeared, his relationship with Little, Brown deteriorated and his old publishing house rejected his next book, on the last days of Tolstoy. The A.P. quoted Ms. Dean as saying the book was to be published by Simon & Schuster in the spring. Blacklist, Then a Book
        Although Mr. Shirer denied that he was ever a Communist sympathizer, he was blacklisted in "Red Channels," a booklet that listed names of suspected Communists in the early 1950's. He had once signed a friend-of-the-court brief for the Hollywood 10. "Red Channels" was used to pressure the networks and advertising agencies to purge its liberal commentators. CBS was one of the broadcasting companies that bowed to the pressure and established loyalty oaths.
        "I became unemployable," Mr. Shirer later wrote. "I was broke, with two kids in school. Some of my friends were editors and would pay me for an article, but nothing was ever published. I then decided I would speak my piece on the lecture trail. I spent almost five years when my sole income was from one-night stands at universities. They were almost the only place in the country in the 1950's that still had some respect for freedom of speech."
        Of colleagues who behaved "not well" during the McCarthy era, Mr. Shirer said: "It's a question of character. It's a complex fate, being an American, as Henry James wrote. It would be easier here for a right-wing dictator than anyplace else."
        "I have moments of great depression about the United States," he added, "and then something happens to restore faith."
        Had he not been blacklisted by the networks, Mr. Shirer said in an interview published in The New York Times Book Review in 1977, he would never have found the time to write "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich."
        In addition to Ms. Dean, Mr. Shirer is survived by his wife, Irina Lugovskaya; another daughter, Linda Rae of Cross River, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      