
        Gerhard A. Gesell, a Federal judge who presided over momentous cases in the Watergate scandals, the release of the secret Pentagon Papers, the Iran-contra affair and the legalization of abortion, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 82.
        The cause of death was liver cancer, his family said.
        Judge Gesell (pronounced guh-ZEL) was appointed to the Federal District Court in Washington by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967. On Jan. 22, he had placed himself on senior status, continuing to work but in a limited capacity.
        In crucial Watergate and Iran-contra cases, Judge Gesell stood resolute against what he considered abuses of power by the nation's highest officials.
        During the 1989 criminal trial of Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North for his role in the Iran-contra affair, the judge instructed the jury, "Neither the President nor any of the defendant's superiors had the legal authority to order anyone to violate the law." Doctors' Office Burglarized
        When sentencing two Watergate defendants, Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio Martinez, the judge said, "As you both know well, it is impossible to preserve freedom anywhere when the zealots take over and the rule of law is ignored."
        The judge also ruled that national security was not a valid excuse in 1971 when agents broke into the office of the psychiatrist of Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, who helped write the secret Pentagon Papers study of the Vietnam War, which was later divulged to the news organizations.
        Judge Gesell, a Democrat, was known as a staunch liberal, a strong civil rights jurist and a judge who exerted an imposing command over his courtroom.
        In Mr. North's trial, the judge admonished Fawn Hall, Mr. North's secretary, to "keep your mouth shut while I'm talking." Alarmed by pretrial publicity on Watergate, he warned Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski that "your good sense should keep you off talk shows" on television.
        Henry Huge, a lawyer, once said: "He's like God up there, with his white hair. Sometimes you think he might throw thunderbolts from up there.
        Judge Gesell's promptness and efficiency were legendary, and he helped modernize court procedures and train new judges. Chief Justice Warren E. Burger in 1977 placed him in charge of the thousands of suits filed claiming illnesses from defective swine flu vaccinations.
        Decisive and incisive, Judge Gesell was quick to cut to core issues. A former clerk said, 'When he was a trial lawyer, he thought the best way to try a case was to go for the jugular and leave the capillaries alone."
        In his 25 years on the bench, the docket of trials Judge Gesell presided over and rulings he issued was full of celebrated cases.
        Eager to tackle highly charged issues, he struck down the District of Columbia's abortion ban in 1969, in his first year as a judge. The Supreme Court overruled him, but later reversed itself and legalized abortion.
        In 1978 he joined a three-judge panel that threw out regulations forcing the mandatory retirement of foreign service officers at the age of 60, a ruling that was an important step in the abolition of mandatory retirement.
        During the Watergate investigations and litigation, Judge Gesell ruled that the dismissal of Archibald Cox as special prosecutor in the "Saturday night massacre" in October 1973 had been illegal. North Found Guilty
        In 1989, a jury found Colonel North guilty of three of the 12 crimes he was charged with: obstructing Congress, destroying documents and receiving an illegal gratuity. The verdicts carried a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and fines of $750,000.
        Judge Gesell surprised many people when he decided not to send the former Marine Corps officer to prison. Instead he fined Mr. North $150,000, placed him on probation for two years and ordered him to serve 1,200 hours of community service. But he told Mr. North: "I believe you still lack full understanding, however, of how the public service has been tarnished."
        "I do not think in this area you were a leader at all, but really a low-ranking subordinate working to carry out the initiatives of a few cynical superiors," Judge Gesell said.
        On appeal, Mr. North won a reversal of part of his conviction and was granted a new hearing on whether his remaining conviction should be voided because of his being granted immunity testifying to Congressional committees. Prosecutors then dropped their case, and he was free of any penalty.
        Presiding over the 1974 trial of John D. Ehrlichman, former President Richard M. Nixon's chief adviser on domestic affairs, Judge Gesell sentenced himto 20 months to five years in prison for his role in the break-in into a doctor's office to find out about Dr. Ellsberg, who had helped prepare a secret study on the Vietnam War, which came to be known as the Pentagon papers.
        Judge Gesell called the break-in "a shameful episode in the history of the country."
        In the complex Pentagon Papers litigation, which was heard by 29 Federal judges, Judge Gesell was the only one who did not issue a temporary order restraining publication.
        On June 21, 1971, Judge Gesell ruled that The Washington Post could continue to publish a series of articles about the Vietnam War based on the secret study after the Government tried to halt publication.
        "It should be obvious that the interests of the Government are inseparable from the interests of the public," Judge Gesell read from his handwritten opinion. "These are one and the same, and the public interest makes an instant plea for publication."
        The New York Times had begun publishing the Pentagon Papers on June 13, 1971. On June 30, the Supreme Court upheld the right of The Times and The Post to continue publication.
        In November 1969, Judge Gesell declared that the District of Columbia's abortion statute was unconstitutional. The statute, which permitted only those abortions meant to preserve a woman's life or health, was unconstitutionally vague, he ruled. Graduated From Yale
        Born in Los Angeles, Judge Gesell grew up in New Haven. His father, Arnold, was a renowned pediatrician and child-development specialist who taught at Yale. Gerhard Gesell graduated from Yale in 1932 and its law school in 1935.
        His first job was as a staff lawyer and adviser to Chairman William O. Douglas at the new Securities and Exchange Commission from 1935 to 1941. Despite his youth, he was put in charge of a major investigation of the New York Stock Exchange that called as witnesses major Wall Street figures like J. P. Morgan.
        While still in his 20's, he also conducted hearings into the insurance industry for a Congressional committee. An editorial cartoon portrayed him as David against Goliath.
        Then in 1941 he joined the prominent law firm of Covington & Burling in Washington, where he specialized in antitrust and other corporate cases, arguing some of them before the Supreme Court.
        While in private practice, he also took on special government assignments. He served as a lawyer to the Joint Congressional Committee investigating the attack on Pearl Harbor and questions about advance warnings and preparations. He also served as chairman of President John F. Kennedy's Commission on Equal Opportunity in the Armed Forces from 1962 to 1964.
        In 1989 Judge Gesell won the the Edward J. Devitt Distinguished Service to Justice Award, given annually to an outstanding Federal jurist.
        Judge Gesell expressed his credo in a 1986 ceremony granting citizenship to 98 immigrants. "You are now part of a great experiment in government," he said. "Don't be willing to leave government to others. Participate." He added: "Demand competence in your leaders. Seek out the good, shun the bad. Vote. Work. Help others. Be useful. Obey the law. Speak out against intolerance. Get involved. Use your minds, not your fists. Your voice will be heard."
        His major pastimes were spending weekends at his 358-acre cattle, sheep and honeybee farm near Leesburg, Va., and sailing and gardening during summers on Penobscot Bay, Me.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Marion Pike, known as Peggy; a son, Peter of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Patsy Gesell of Manhattan; a sister, Catherine Walden, known as Tassy, of Guilford, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      