
        Don Ameche, who was one of Hollywood's busiest and most versatile stars in the 1930's and 40's and who saw his fame triumphantly rekindled when he won an Oscar for his work in the comedy "Cocoon" in 1985, died on Monday at the home of his son, Don Jr., in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 85.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his son said.
        Mr. Ameche finished work on his last movie, "Corrina, Corrina," with Whoopi Goldberg and Ray Liotta, in early November.
        One of the most popular radio actors of the early 1930's, Mr. Ameche easily made the transition to the screen. He played the leading man or his best friend in 40 films over 14 years, won plaudits in five Broadway plays when his film career faded, and went on to carry out many assignments as an actor, singer or master of ceremonies on television.
        In Hollywood, the 6-foot-tall performer with dapper good looks and a pencil-thin mustache was one of the hardest-working stars at 20th Century-Fox, playing leading roles in comedies, dramas and musicals, mostly as a debonair young man about town. He often appeared with Fox stars including Alice Faye, Betty Grable, Tyrone Power and Loretta Young. 'Bell' and Break-Dancing
        Mr. Ameche was indelibly linked with the title role in "The Story of Alexander Graham Bell" and for many years after the 1939 film, many Americans referred to their telephones as "the Ameche." Later that year, he played Stephen Foster in "Swanee River."
        Other films included "Ramona" (1936), "Alexander's Ragtime Band" (1938), "The Three Musketeers" (as D'Artagnan), "Midnight" (1939), "That Night in Rio" (1941) and "Wing and a Prayer" (1944).  Four decades later, at 77, he electrified movie audiences by performing a dizzying break dance in the 1985 comic fantasy "Cocoon." His portrayal of a frisky septuagenarian rejuvenated by aliens won him an Academy Award for best supporting actor and a 30-second ovation at the Oscar ceremony by thousands of his peers.
        In interviews afterward, he said he had spent two months learning to break-dance and expressed pride at having performed "97 percent of the gyrations." (The remaining 3 percent were performed by an 18-year-old professional dancer.) The trim Mr. Ameche credited his physical well-being to isometrics, deep knee bends and running in place.
        It was his first Oscar nomination in a 50-year career, and he said that if the award was a sentimental tribute because "I've been around as long as I have, that's lovely, too." Wisconsin to Broadway
        Dominic Felix Ameche was born in Kenosha, Wis., on May 31, 1908, the second of eight children of Felix and Barbara Hertle Ameche. His father, who grew up outside Rome, Anglicized the spelling of the family name, Amici, when he came to the United States and became a saloon manager. A younger son, Jim, later became a radio actor and announcer.
        Don Ameche attended Columbia Academy, a Roman Catholic boy's school, and Columbia (now Loras) College, both in Dubuque, Iowa. His first stage role, at the age of 11, was the Virgin Mary; he played it with a black eye resulting from a basketball game. He studied law at Marquette and Georgetown Universities and at the University of Wisconsin, but dropped out to join a stock company in Madison, Wis.
        He appeared as a butler on Broadway in 1929, toured briefly in vaudeville with Texas Guinan and started a radio career in Chicago in 1930. He soon became a leading radio actor, starring successively in "The First Nighter," "Grand Hotel" and "The Chase & Sanborn Hour" (the last with Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy). Later, on radio and television, he made hilarious appearances with Frances Langford as the Bickersons, an irrepressibly contentious couple.
        His radio fame prompted 20th Century-Fox to offer him dual roles as the sons of a Job-like character (Jean Hersholt) in a 1936 film, "Sins of Man." He was an immediate hit and won long-term contracts.
        He went on to star opposite Claudette Colbert in the classic comedy "Midnight." She played a penniless American in Paris who is befriended by Mr. Ameche, a taxi driver. The Original "Heaven Can Wait"
        Reviewers considered his best movie performance the rakish hero in a satirical fantasy, "Heaven Can Wait," directed by Ernst Lubitsch in 1943. Forty years later, Mr. Ameche hailed Lubitsch as "a genius," adding, "I'd never worked with anyone who came near him."
        In 1944, the actor began to freelance but received few offers. Almost none of his Fox films were first-class, and his roles had not varied much. His most auspicious freelance parts included a suave wife-killer in "Sleep, My Love" (1948) and a deceitful director in a breezy 1949 musical, "Slightly French."
        In 1950, he moved his family to New York, where he studied intensively to sing without a microphone and starred in a few Broadway shows. He appeared in the musical "Silk Stockings," a 1955 satire on Communism based on the Greta Garbo film "Ninotchka," with lyrics and music by Cole Porter, and "Goldilocks," a 1958 spoof of silent movie making with a Leroy Anderson score.
        Mr. Ameche won praise from reviewers, with Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times hailing him as "the perfect musical comedy hero, crackling in style, deadpan, assured, sardonic."
        He also starred in a wide variety of television specials and series, including "To Tell the Truth" and "Coke Time With Eddie Fisher." From 1961 through 1965, he was the ringmaster for NBC's "International Showtime," which highlighted foreign circuses and water, ice and magic shows.
        In later years, he received only occasional offers to appear in films. Among them were "Suppose They Gave a War and Nobody Came" and "The Boatniks," both in 1970, and "Trading Places" in 1983. His deft portrayal of a venal multi-millionaire in that comedy paved the way for his triumph in "Cocoon."
        Mr. Ameche also starred in the sequel to "Cocoon," "Cocoon II," and in "Things Change," written by David Mamet and Shel Silverstein, in which he played a shoeshine man who happens to be a double for the head of the Chicago mob.
        As for the many years when no one sent him a script, he remarked in 1986: "You're talking to a man with no regrets. I've always accepted things as they were. God was awfully good to me during the good days."
        "I cherish the old days," he said, "but I don't miss them."
        Mr. Ameche's wife, Honore, died several years ago. In addition to his son Don Jr., he is survived by three other sons, Tom, of Lexington, Ky., Ron, of Iowa City, Iowa, and Larry, of Overland Park, Kan.; two daughters, Bonnie, of North Olmstead, Ohio, and Connie, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; a brother, Burt, of North Ridge, Calif.; two sisters, Mary Jane, also of North Ridge, and Anne, of Resido, Calif.; 13 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren. From History To Humor
        Don Ameche's versatility and dapper good looks brought him a wide variety of roles, notably that of Alexander Graham Bell in the 1939 film biography of the inventor. Here are some of his other credits.
        Alexander's Ragtime Band 1938
        Midnight 1939
        The Three Musketeers 1939
        That Night in Rio 1941
        Kiss the Boys Goodbye 1941
        Heaven Can Wait 1943
        Wing and a Prayer 1944
        Sleep, My Love 1948
        Fever in the Blood 1961
        The Boatniks 1970
        Trading Places 1983
        Cocoon 1985
        Harry and the Hendersons 1987
        Coming to America 1988
        Things Change 1988
        Cocoon II: The Return 1988
        Oddball Hall 1990
        Oscar 1991
        Folks! 1992
      