
        Robert Taft Jr., a former United States Representative and Senator who was the grandson of a President and the son of a Presidential contender, died on Monday at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati. He was 76.
        The Cincinnati Enquirer said he had a stroke on Nov. 29.
        Mr. Taft, a scion of a wealthy Ohio family that helped define Republican politics in the United States for more than a century, never sought to follow in his grandfather's or father's quest for the White House.
        He was the great-grandson of Alphonso Taft, who served as Attorney General and as Secretary of War under President Ulysses S. Grant in 1876; the grandson of William Howard Taft, who was President of the United States from 1909 to 1913 and Chief Justice of the United States from 1921 to 1930, and the son of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, who unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination for President in 1948 and again in 1952. Reluctant Politician
        Robert A. Taft Jr., who did not have a middle name, was often called "Young Bob" to distinguish him from his father. The younger Mr. Taft won four terms in the Ohio Legislature and ran for national office six times, serving as a Representative from Ohio for three terms and as a Senator for one term, yet early on he seemed to be a reluctant politician.
        When his father died in 1953, leaving his Senate seat vacant, the younger Mr. Taft rejected pleas by Republicans that he seek the seat, saying he lacked the necessary experience.
        "I never tried to pattern myself after my father," he said after losing his last campaign, a bid for re-election in 1976, to Howard M. Metzenbaum, a Democrat who, at 76, is retiring from the Senate when his term expires next year.
        From 1977 to 1988, when Mr. Taft retired, he was a partner in the Cincinnati law firm of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister.
        Mr. Taft, a graduate of Yale University and Harvard Law School, began his political career in 1954, when he was elected to the Ohio House of Representatives. He was elected to Congress in 1962 and two years later made an unsuccessful run for the Senate.
        He was again elected to Congress in 1966 and re-elected in 1968. Two years later he made another bid for the Senate and this time was successful, defeating Gov. James Rhodes in the Republican primary and Mr. Metzenbaum in the general election.
        In his six years as a Senator, Mr. Taft served on the Armed Services, the Labor and Public Welfare, and the Banking, Currency and Housing committees. He helped write legislation to extend the National Labor Relations Act to health care workers.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; four children, including a son, Bob, who is Ohio's Secretary of State, and six grandchildren.
      