
        Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Riza Golpaygani, an Iranian cleric who was a senior religious figure for Shiite Muslims, died Thursday in a hospital in Teheran. He was in his late 90's and was prominent in Islamic learning for decades in Qum, the Shiite religious center 75 miles southwest of Teheran.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, the Iranian press agency I.R.N.A. reported, and he had been suffering from a lung ailment.
        On Friday, hundreds of thousands of mourners accompanied his body from Teheran for a funeral and burial in Qum, The Associated Press reported. Pillar of Orthodoxy
        Ayatollah Golpaygani was a pillar of orthodoxy in Shiite Islam, which has 200 million adherents in Iran, Iraq and other countries. He gained additional pre-eminence with the deaths of two other grand ayatollahs, in 1992 and 1993.
        Only three living Shiite clerics now bear the title of grand ayatollah. Ayatollah Golpaygani was elevated to that rank 30 years ago, Teheran radio said last week.
        He supported the Muslim Government of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who took control in Iran after an Islamic revolution there led to the flight of the last Shah, Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, in 1979. Ayatollah Khomeini died in 1989.
        Ayatollah Golpaygani generally stayed out of the politics of the post-revolutionary Islamic Government, although he differed with Ayatollah Khomeini, whom he had known for many years, on some political and religious matters.
        Ayatollah Golpaygani articulated critical opinions that were held by some Iranian Shiite clerics concerning Government measures like the seizing of property whose owners were charged with being counterrevolutionaries.
        He also objected on religious grounds to the Government's increasing tolerance toward some activities. In the early 1990's, he contended that its permissiveness concerning music and chess was contrary to the edicts of Islam.  Recognized as Theologian
        The future Ayatollah Golpaygani won recognition as a young teacher of theology and law in Qum more than 60 years ago.
        After Ayatollah Khomeini came to power, the Government tried, with a measure of success, to give additional power to some Iranian ayatollahs whose political views it found congenial. And Ayatollah Khomeini unofficially claimed for himself the status of the senior Shiite religious leader in the world Shiite community.
        After Ayatollah Khomeini's death, there was a return to the traditional system, with religious scholarship determining the status of senior Shiite leaders. There have been attempts, though, to cast aside Iranian religious figures who are senior by virtue of their learning but whose political views do not suit the Teheran Government.
      