
        Jozsef Antall, the Hungarian Prime Minister, died today in Budapest. He was the longest-ruling leader of post-Communist Eastern Europe and probably the most conservative.
        Mr. Antall, 61, was hospitalized in Budapest last month with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form of cancer of the lymph glands. He had been receiving chemotherapy and had also had been treated in Germany in October.
        The victory of Mr. Antall's party, the Hungarian Democratic Forum, in multiparty elections in March 1990 formally ended Communist rule in Hungary and ushered in an era of foreign investment, a drive to be part of Western Europe and stability in an uncertain region.
        Some of these early attributes of the Antall Government had started to fade by this year, and it seemed clear that Mr. Antall's party was headed for defeat in elections scheduled for next spring. The Hungarian Socialist Party, whose members come from among the former Communists, and the Federation of Young Democrats, a party that supports a free market, have been leading in the polls. Acting Premier Named
        With Mr. Antall's death, it is up to President Arpad Goncz to decide whether to move up the general election or to ask the Democratic Forum to form a new government. In the meantime, Interior Minister Peter Boross was named Acting Prime Minister today.
        An anti-Communist, but one who steered clear of dissident movements during Communist rule, Mr. Antall was a rather uncharismatic leader. But his plodding manner was offset by the grandness of his office in Hungary's neo-Gothic Parliament building on the Danube.
        Born in Budapest and educated at a Roman Catholic school, Mr. Antall headed a workplace revolutionary committee during the 1956 uprising against the Communists at the high school where he taught history. He subsequently lost his job and was only allowed to travel abroad for the first time in 1974.
        He eventually found a job as a librarian. In 1964, he joined the Semmelweis Medical History Museum, becoming its director 10 years later.
        In 1989, as Hungary moved toward multiparty government, he headed the Democratic Forum delegation at the round-table talks with the Communists, was elected party president and went on to lead the party to election victory. He described his party's philosophy to Andrew Nagorski, the author of the book "The Birth of Freedom," an account of Eastern Europe in the early 1990's, as "close to the center, and Christian Democratic, nationalist trends." Conservative Instincts
        His instincts usually seemed to be conservative and initially revealed an inexperience in government. Among his first appointments were seven teachers from the secondary school where he taught as under secretaries of state in various ministries. And early in his rule, he introduced Roman Catholic religious instruction into the public school curriculum, even though Hungary is not uniformly Catholic. Protestants, Jews and atheists make up perhaps a third of the population.
        Hungary quickly became a favorite of foreign investors, who found Mr. Antall's Government more willing to sell off state enterprises than other Governments in the region. But the arrival of outside capital helped stir anti-Semitism, particularly in the right wing of Mr. Antall's party.
        Last year, the vice president of the party, Istvan Csurka, called for all true Hungarians to rise up against what he described as a conspiracy of Jews, Communists, liberals, journalists and international bankers, which he said was smothering Hungary's nationalist revival.
        It took more than a year for Mr. Antall to stand up to Mr. Csurka, and some Hungarians speculated that he was reluctant because he shared some of Mr. Csurka's views.
        Mr. Antall seemed to reinforce this impression when he lauded Adm. Miklos Horthy, the Hungarian leader who collaborated with Hitler in World War II and whose remains the Prime Minister allowed to be buried at a major ceremony in Hungary in September. Mr. Antall called Admiral Horthy a "Hungarian patriot."
        The article also referred incorrectly to the Antall Government's introduction of religious instruction into public schools. Voluntary instruction is available not just in Roman Catholicism but also in Judaism and some Protestant denominations.
        Correction:  December 16, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary on Monday about Prime Minister Jozsef Antall of Hungary referred incorrectly to the formation of a new government when the Prime Minister dies. The ruling party has the right to try to form a government; if it fails, the President can call an election.
      