
        Rear Adm. Joseph W. Fowler, a master builder of warships and Disney theme parks, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 99 and also had a home in Brooksville, Me.
        Admiral Fowler was the oldest living graduate of the United States Naval Academy and the oldest living retiree of the Walt Disney Company.
        At Disney, he was senior vice president for engineering and construction until 1972 and a consultant until 1976. He had been hired in 1954 on his reputation as Can-Do Joe and was a main figure in the development of both Disneyland and Disney World.
        Born in Lewiston, Me., he graduated from Annapolis in 1917, second in his class, and served in World War I as a navigator on submarine-patrol duty.
        In 1921 he received a master's degree in naval architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He built gunboats in the late 1920's while posted in Shanghai, and, while assigned to the Navy Department in Washington, he oversaw design changes for warships, including the carriers Saratoga and Lexington. He supervised submarine construction and repair at the Portsmouth Naval Yard in Kittery, Me., and while in command of the San Francisco Naval Shipyard oversaw the assembly-line launchings of the Kaiser fleet of cargo ships.
        He retired from the Navy in 1948 to become a private consultant. The Defense Department recalled him in 1951 during the Korean War to cut red tape in overlapping supply systems by setting up a single-catalogue buying system for all the armed services.
        In 1952 President Harry S. Truman appointed him civilian director of the Federal Supply Management Agency with a mandate to root out waste in the military.
        Congressional praise for his role was followed by Disney's invitation in 1954 to direct construction of Disneyland, the world's first theme park, in Anaheim, Calif. He built the park in one year on schedule.
        He then traveled incognito in Florida to scout for a site for a second theme park, Disney World. Ground was broken outside Orlando in 1967. The admiral was in charge of engineering and construction, and the park opened on schedule in 1971.
        Admiral Fowler's wife of 66 years, Marguerite Turner Dowler, died in 1984. He is survived by a son, Dr. William Fowler of Cambridge, Mass.; a sister, Jennie Mae Howe, a resident of Maine; four granddaughters, and five great-grandchildren.
      