
        Ted Haworth, who was the art director of many films, including "Sayonara," for which he won an Academy Award, died on Thursday at the Utah Valley Regional Hospital in Provo, Utah. He was 75 and lived in Sundance, Utah.
        His son, Sean, said Mr. Haworth (the name is pronounced HAW-worth) died of heart failure after he was injured in a car accident and developed a blood clot in the brain.
        In movie parlance, the art director -- also known as the production designer -- is the person with overall responsibility for all facets of a film's decor, including indoor and outdoor settings, costumes and props.
        The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther, in a review of "Sayonara" at its New York premiere in 1957, called it "a richly colorful film" with "handsome Japanese surroundings -- outdoor gardens, graceful, sliding-paneled homes and delicate teahouses, shown in colors of exceptional taste and blend."
        Based on a novel by James Michener, the film starred Marlon Brando as a career American Air Force officer in love with, and secretly living with, a beautiful Japanese actress (Miiko Taka). The set decoration was by Robert Priestley.
        Mr. Haworth's work over the years included such movies as "Marty" (1955), "Some Like It Hot" (1959), "Pepe" (1960), "The Longest Day" (1962) and "What a Way to Go!" (1964). His more recent films included "Mr. Baseball" (1992) and "Batteries Not Included" (1987).
        Mr. Haworth's given name was Edward S. Haworth, and he used that form of his name early in his career. He was born in Cleveland, grew up in Willoughby, Ohio, and went on to attend the University of Southern California at Los Angeles.
        His marriages to Miriam Severy, Hallie Stagner and Anna Wackevitch ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son, Sean, of Los Angeles, who is a freelance designer of movie sets, Mr. Haworth is survived by two daughters, Maria Haworth, an actress, of Los Angeles and Jann Haworth, a sculptor and painter, of Bath, England; three grandchildren; a brother, Joe Haworth of Seattle, and a sister, Cathy Haworth of Santa Monica, Calif.
      