
        Robert F. Lewine, who worked as a vice president for programming at all three national television networks, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 80.
        The cause was a respiratory condition, said an announcement by the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences in North Holywood, of which he was a past president.
        As a programmer Mr. Lewine was responsible for many popular shows, including the original "Disneyland" and "Mickey Mouse Club." He was also a founder and partner of Creative Management Associates Inc., a talent agency that later became ICM, or International Creative Management.
        A native of New York City, he was a 1934 graduate of Swarthmore College. His career as a television executive started in 1945 as vice president of operations for Cine-TV Studios Inc. Acadmey President
        He joined ABC eight years later as director of programming for its Eastern division and held other management positions before becoming vice president for programming in 1958. From 1959 to 1962 he was in charge of programming at CBS Films Inc. and then worked at the CBS network for two years. His association with NBC dated to 1977.
        He was president of the television academy from 1961 through 1963 and again from 1970 to 1976. He founded its New York chapter in 1955 and served on numerous committees over the years. They included panels on awards, membership, Emmy Magazine and the International Council. Last year the academy presented him with the Syd Cassyd Founder's Award, an Emmy statuette, in recognition of his services.
        Most recently, until four years ago, he taught courses on broadcasting at the University of Southern California and the University of California, Los Angeles. He was a trustee of Columbia College in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Lewine is survived by his wife of 55 years, Lucille Litwin Lewine, and their son Rob, of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  December 16, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Robert Lewine, who was a vice president for programming at all three national television networks, omitted the name of a survivor. He is Mr. Lewine's brother, Richard I., of Manhattan.
      