
        Mr. Tanaka was until his convicton Japan's most potent political figure by virtue of his role as leader of the most powerful faction in the dominant Liberal Democratic Party, a conservative group that has dominated Japanese politics for decades.
        In 1983, Mr. Tanaka, a shrewd political tactician, a skilled fund raiser and a deft dispenser of patronage, was convicted of having taken the equivalent of $2.1 million in bribes from the Lockheed Corporation while he was Prime Minister.
        Soon after his conviction, he was re-elected to Parliament by an overwhelming majority in his native Niigata Prefecture, a rural constituency that had been sending him to Parliament for 36 years.
        Insisting that he was innocent, Mr. Tanaka told campaign audiences, "I have never done anything which I must be ashamed of before God."
        He pointed to the Government money he had helped to provide for medical benefits and other aid he had given to deserving recipients. "Politics by nature is warm-hearted," he said. "Without understanding these things, you can't feel the true politics of Japan."
        Mr. Tanaka had an inelegant, gravelly, sometimes curt way of talking that helped to make him an outsider in the upper levels of the Japanese Government. In addition, unlike many high-ranking Japanese, he did not study at a university, and he did not spend time in the Government bureaucracy, which is a time-honored path to authority.
        But he had great energy and determination, in addition to his personal magnetism, and through years of hard work he forged personal relationships around the country that were an immense and durable political asset. Rebuilt Ties to China
        His earthy ways helped make him highly popular early in his time as Prime Minister. A book he wrote advocating economic changes became a best seller, and he rode a wave of national sentiment in rebuilding Japan's traditional ties to China. But his administration was beset by inflation and, in 1973, full-blown recession. His popularity shriveled even before the revelations of questionable dealings in finance and real estate that led him to step down in 1974, although he was not then prosecuted.
        "I am solely to blame for the fact that my personal affairs invited people's misunderstanding," he said at the time, "and I feel a pain I cannot bear."
        In 1976, he was indicted for bribery, which was said to have occurred while he headed the Government. He was jailed for a while that year, in Kosuge Prison in Tokyo, before being released on bail.
        Also indicted, on the same day as Mr. Tanaka, were three Japanese former executives of the Marubeni Trading Corporation, Lockheed's official sales agent in Tokyo, who were charged with offering the bribes.
        In convicting him, seven years later, the Tokyo District Court found him guilty of having taken the bribes from Lockheed while he was Prime Minister to arrange for Japan's largest domestic airline, All Nippon Airways, to buy Lockheed Tristar aircraft. He was sentenced to four years in prison and fined $2.1 million.  He Retained His Power
        Despite the furor surrounding the bribery indictment and conviction, which opposition parties tried with limited success to exploit politically, Mr. Tanaka retained such enormous extragovernmental power that he was sometimes known as "the Shadow Shogun" in reference to the title once born by military governors of Japan. But later his leadership came under repeated challenge from within his party.
        Mr. Tanaka was born May 4, 1918, in Futada, a village later renamed Nishiyama, in Niigata Prefecture, a poor agricultural region on the coast of Honshu Island. He was the only son of Kakuji Tanaka, a livestock farmer with a weakness for gambling on horse racing, and of Fume Tanaka, an unpretentious woman who wanted their son to become a railroad worker.
        Kakuei Tanaka spent six years at an elementary school in the prefecture where, he said decades later, he was deeply influenced by mottoes posted on the wall. "Endless study, endless effort" was one. Another was, "Leave the flower and take the fruit."
        He applied the first precept so thoroughly that his determination, as well as his stocky build, led his schoolmates to nickname him "the Mole."
        After two additional years of schooling, Mr. Tanaka became a construction worker at the age of 15. At 16, he went to Tokyo, where he worked as a clerk for a building contractor and in other jobs while attending a private secondary school, the Central Technological School, at night.
        Two years later, he founded his own small construction concern, the first of many companies he ran over the years while amassing his fortune. He interrupted his business career early in 1939 when he joined a cavalry unit of the Japanese Army, but he later caught pneumonia, was discharged as an invalid and plunged back into the building industry.
        By the end of World War II, the Tanaka Construction Company was one of the 50 largest construction companies in Japan.  Ran for Parliament at 28
        In 1946, Mr. Tanaka, then 28 years old, ran for a seat in Parliament from his home district. He was beaten but won a seat the next year.
        After he had been in Parliament less than two years, Mr. Tanaka was implicated in a scandal concerning the nationalization of a coal mine. He was charged with having taken a bribe, was convicted and spent a month in jail before a higher court overturned his conviction. Afterward, by dint of much effort, he got back into the mainstream of Japanese political life.
        In 1957 and 1958, he was Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, and in 1961 and 1962, he was chairman of the Liberal Democrats' Policy Affairs Research Council. From 1962 to 1965, he served as Finance Minister in three Cabinets.
        He went on to become the Liberal Democrats' secretary general in 1965 and 1966 and again from 1968 to 1970. His duties in that post included raising and allocating money. In 1971 and 1972, he was Minister of International Trade and Industry.
        In 1972, Mr. Tanaka was elected president of the Liberal Democratic Party, which was then in power, and was designated Prime Minister at plenary sessions of both houses of Parliament, replacing Prime Minister Eisaku Sato, whose Cabinet had resigned.
        Mr. Tanaka was, at the age of 54, the fifth youngest Prime Minister in modern Japanese history and the youngest since World War II.  Was Popular at the Start
        Early in his tenure, Mr. Tanaka scored repeated successes. He was popular in large part because he had more in common with the ordinary Japanese voters than had his uppercrust predecessors as Prime Ministers of postwar Japan. His admirers bought quantities of copies of his book, "The Remodeling of the Japanese Archipelago," which advocated allocating economic benefits and costs more fairly.
        He also urged that Japan consider other countries' economic needs. In a speech in 1973, he noted that his country had amassed balance-of-payments surpluses and said, "If she seeks only her own interests, she cannot be expected to win international trust and understanding."
        As Prime Minister, Mr. Tanaka also argued that Japan's task, after achieving great prosperity in the last 25 years, was "to consolidate the environment of all of our lives."
        "It is often said that we Japanese have been working too hard," he said. "I think it is true."
        But problems began to plague his prime ministership. Prices soared, and the recession that struck the country in 1973 was the worst in the 21 years since the end of the United States occupation of Japan.
        In 1976, when he was indicted for taking the bribes, the indictment said that a month after taking office as Prime Minister, he was visited by the three Marubeni executives at the elegant housing compound in Tokyo where he lived.
        There, the indictment said, the executives asked him to use the power of his office to make sure that All Nipon Airways bought Lockheed L-1011 Tristar passenger jets.
        In return, according to the indictment, the executives promised to pay him cash. The money, in Japanese yen, had a total value of $1.6 million at the exchange rate prevailing when he was indicted and of $2.1 million when he was convicted. A few weeks after the visit, according to the indictment, the airline said it would purchase the Tristars, reversing an earlier decision to buy McDonnell Douglas DC-10 jets.
        The indictment said the bribes were delivered in four installments, which were handed over to Mr. Tanaka's secretary between August 1973 and March 1974.  Chief Issue in Elections
        Mr. Tanaka's refusal to give up his Parliament seat after his conviction in 1983 became the chief issue in the parliamentary elections in December of that year, in which the Liberal Democrats suffered substantial losses, although Mr. Tanaka himself was swept back into his parliamentary seat by voters who were influenced in part by favors he had done for their district over the years.
        Mr. Tanaka married his wife, the former Hana Sakamoto, who was the daughter of his landlord, in 1942. They had two children, a son, who died as a child in 1947 and a daughter, Makiko, whose husband, a Member of Parliament, was born Naoki Suzuki but now officially uses the name Naoki Tanaka.
        Kakuei Tanaka is survived by his wife and daughter, four sisters and three grandchildren.
      