
        Leighton Allyn Wilkie, founder of the international DoAll Group of companies that make and distribute machine tools and other industrial equipment, died on Monday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93.
        He had a brief illness, said a spokesman for DoAll, of Des Plaines, Ill. Mr. Wilkie was a former chairman of the company and a senior vice president at his death.
        Mr. Wilkie also was an inventor, author and student of anthropology. His enterprise embraced more than 70 companies, including plants in Minnesota and Illinois and DoAll industrial supply centers in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia, the Netherlands, Britain, Germany, Belgium and Sweden.
        Born in Winona, Minn., he attended the University of Minnesota in the early 1920's. Moving to Minneapolis, he turned to manufacturing and developed an improved process for stamping parts out of metal. He founded Continental Machines Inc. and devised a metal-cutting band saw that became a standard tool in industry. Supported Museums
        Through a family foundation, Mr. Wilkie supported anthropological expeditions and sites overseas. He also benefited other scientific study groups as well as museums. He was a director of the Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History.
        He sponsored educational exhibits in museums, including a "Civilization Through Tools" display and the Julius C. Wilkie Steamboat Museum in Winona, named after his father and featuring Robert Fulton documents and steam-driven equipment and plants.
        Mr. Wilkie wrote books about machine tools and the industrial revolution. He was the co-author, with Richard S. Rimanoczy, of "The Principles of American Prosperity" (Devin-Adair, 1975).
        Mr. Wilkie is survived by his wife of 58 years, Adele Mearns Wilkie; a son, Michael L., of Chicago, now president and chairman of DoAll; a daughter, Bonnie Henricks of Lake Forest, Ill.; a brother, Robert J., of Escondido, Calif.; six grandchildren, and one grandchild.
      