
        Bill Robinson, an innovative men's fashion designer who was known for his pioneering soft-shouldered jackets with slim waists, arresting combinations of just-off colors, and zippers going up the fronts of his vests, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich Village. Besides his Manhattan home, Mr. Robinson had a weekend home in Bucks County, Pa. He was 45.
        He died after a long illness, said his companion, Leo Chiu.
        Beginning with the fall of 1986, garments designed by Mr. Robinson were manufactured and marketed by the Bill Robinson sportswear division of Bidermann Industries, which is a Paris-based fashion company.
        But after Mr. Robinson became seriously ill two years ago, the operations of the Bill Robinson division -- where he had the title of designer -- halted. A Parsons Graduate
        This past September, though, he was feeling better and returned to his offices to design a line called the "Best of Bill Robinson" consisting of sweaters and of woven and knit shirts for fall, 1994.
        Mr. Robinson was born and raised in Philadelphia and went on to graduate from the Parsons School of Design, where, in 1969, he received three awards as the most promising graduating fashion student at the school.
        After Parsons, he worked for various fashion designers and their fashion companies: Anne Klein, Valentino -- for whom he worked in Rome -- Stan Herman, Leo Narducci and Gloria Vanderbilt.
        Then, in 1977, he joined Calvin Klein and worked as the chief designer of Mr. Klein's menswear collection for several years. Later he moved to Yves St. Laurent. There he produced new designs for men's clothing.
        After the birth of the Bill Robinson division of Bidermann, Mr. Robinson won two Cutty Sark men's wear award nominations in one year, 1987. He went on to win the Cutty Sark Award for Most Promising Designer in 1987. He also won the Council of Fashion Designers of America Menswear Designer of the Year award in 1988.
        He is survived by his companion, Leo Chiu, with whom he lived; his parents, Ann and Will Robinson of Wildwood, N.J.; two sisters, Jane, of Naalehu, Hawaii, and Lynn DiMaio of Hilton Head, S.C.
      