
        Charles Moore, whose exuberant and eclectic architecture made him one of the most influential and prolific practitioners of post-modern design, died yesterday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, his office said.
        A leading figure in American architecture and architectural education for three decades, Mr. Moore strove to celebrate a sense of place with a collagelike mix of pop, historical and modernist motifs.
        He achieved national recognition in 1966 with the completion of Sea Ranch, a condominium project on the California coast north of San Francisco that raised the form of the simple shed to architectural grandeur. After Sea Ranch, his buildings became more whimsical, and he went on to produce such well-known projects as the Faculty Club at the University of California at Santa Barbara (1968), designed with William Turnbull, one of the first expressions of post-modernism's eclectic sensibility, and the Piazza d'Italia in New Orleans (1978), a public plaza that is a brightly colored melange of classical elements. Practiced and Preached
        Mr. Moore, who in 1991 received the Gold Medal from the American Institute of Architects, the professional organization's highest honor, was widely known also as a teacher and a writer. He was the chairman of the architecture department at the University of California at Berkeley from 1962 to 1965, when he moved east to head Yale's architecture school, where he served as chairman and later as dean. At his death, he held the O'Neil Ford Chair in Architecture at the University of Texas.
        He had an unusual form of practice, preferring to set up small architectural offices wherever his teaching positions took him. Over the years, many of these offices grew into substantial architectural firms, like Centerbrook Architects in Essex, Conn., and Moore Rubell Yudell in Santa Monica, Calif., that continued to prosper long after Mr. Moore had moved on, making for a kind of network of Charles Moore progeny all around the country. Most recently, Mr. Moore's main base was with Moore/Andersson Architects in Austin.
        Like Robert Venturi, Mr. Moore was a provocative author whose writings set forth a theoretical framework for his highly diverse designs. He wrote or co-wrote 11 books, including "Body, Memory and Architecture (Yale University Press, 1977), written with Kent Bloomer; "The City Observed: Los Angeles" (Vintage, 1984), written with Peter Becker and Regula Campbell, and "The Place of Houses" (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974), written with Gerald Allen, in which he argued for an architecture of inclusion, a pluralist esthetic free from the restrictions of puritanical taste.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Moore argued against the abstract quality of modern architecture, with its reliance on pure geometric forms. Instead, he insisted that buildings should reflect the particular circumstances of place and use. Summing up the design philosophy of Sea Ranch, Mr. Moore wrote, "The dreams which accompany all human actions should be nurtured by the places in which people live."
        "If buildings are to speak, they must have freedom of speech," he wrote in 1978. "If architecture is to survive in the human consciousness, then the things buildings can say, be they wistful or wise or powerful or gentle or heretical or silly, have to respond to the wide range of human feelings." Visions of the Modern Village
        Mr. Moore was born in Benton Harbor, Mich. Entering the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor at 16, he received his bachelor's degree in architecture in 1947. He later studied at Princeton University, receiving a master of fine arts degree in 1956 and a doctorate in 1957.
        From 1962 to 1970 he was a partner in Moore Lyndon Turnbull Whitaker, later known as MLTW/Moore Turnbull, in Berkeley. In 1970, after moving to New Haven, he formed Charles W. Moore Associates, and in 1975 he became a partner in Moore Grover Harper, now Centerbrook Architects.
        In many of his most important projects, Mr. Moore sought new images for community life in the age of the automobile. At Sea Ranch, a vacation resort built along a 10-mile stretch of the Pacific coast, the pitched-roof, redwood-clad houses, clustered into picturesque compositions, appeared to grow like a natural outcrop of the dramatic cliffside site. The development, which was widely published, became a prototype for many suburban communities nationwide.
        Mr. Moore continued to develop his vision of the modern village at Kresge College, designed with William Turnbull in 1973. In this residential college for the University of California at Santa Cruz, Mr. Moore used a modern vocabulary of geometric forms, but he planned the sloping, redwood-filled site to evoke such traditional concepts as the town square and the main street. A Prophet of Pop
        Mr. Moore's most widely publicized and debated civic project was the Piazza d'Italia, an outdoor gathering place built in 1978 to honor New Orleans residents of Italian ancestry. A festive agglomeration of semi-circular colonnades, neon arches and fountains, the Piazza, designed in collaboration with Perez Associates and the Urban Innovations Group of New Orleans. The piazza enlarged the traditional orders of classical architecture with "delicatessen order," Mr. Moore's playful allusion to a restaurant planned for the site. Although the restaurant did not materialize, the piazza nonetheless gave full expression to what the historian Heinrich Klotz described as Mr. Moore's ability to "create illusionistic fictions whose contents were the ironization of the solemn and the solemnization of the trivial."
        Mr. Moore was an early champion of pop architecture, and his 1965 essay "You Have to Pay for the Public Life," published in Perspecta 9/10, the Yale Architectural Journal, was one of the first scholarly attempts to reckon with the social and architectural dimensions of theme parks. In 1984, he created the Wonderwall at the Louisiana World Exposition in New Orleans. A half-mile-long architectural fantasy designed to mask overhead power lines, the Wonderwall was a visual roller coaster in which giant alligators and pelicans leaped over classical temples toward a giant Ferris wheel.
        Other major projects include the Hood Art Museum at Dartmouth College, the Beverly Hills Civic Center, the art museum of Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., and the Humboldt Library in Berlin.
        Mr. Moore is survived by two sisters, Mimi Weingarten of Pebble Beach, Calif., and Lilla Shook of Prescott, Ariz.
      