
        Kakuei Tanaka, a gravel-voiced politician who dominated Japanese politics for two decades, even after being convicted of accepting a multibillion-dollar bribe from the Lockheed Corporation, died today after a long illness. He was 75.
        Doctors at the Keio University Hospital here, where the former Prime Minister had been staying since September, said he died at 2:04 P.M. from a thyroid condition. Mr. Tanaka had also been suffering from diabetes.
        Mr. Tanaka was one of the most powerful Prime Ministers in the postwar era, a charismatic man whose earthy style transformed Japanese politics into a forum for debating where new bridges or tunnels should be built, not ideology or basic policy.
        He was Prime Minister for just two years, from 1972 to 1974, when he was forced to resign because of allegations that he used his office to enrich himself through questionable property transactions. Two years later he became the only politician to be charged with wrongdoing while in office when he was arrested on charges of accepting bribes from Lockheed for steering a large contract to the airplane manufacturer. But Mr. Tanaka held even more influence as the Liberal Democratic Party's undisputed kingmaker while he fought the charges.  Retired in Late 1980's
        Although he retired in the late 1980's after suffering a stroke, the death of Mr. Tanaka carried deep contemporary resonance. His legacy is known as money politics, and it still gripped Parliament this summer when a rebellion of younger members in his old faction brought down the Liberal Democratic Party after 38 years in power. The reform movement begun by Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and his coalition Government is founded on the principle of trying to put policy making ahead of fund raising and patronage.
        After the announcement of Mr. Tanaka's death, his home in northern Tokyo was besieged by journalists and old supporters, who watched as many of the most prominent politicians in the country arrived to pay their respects.
        Though he never made it past high school, Mr. Tanaka was a man of extraordinary self-confidence and, at one time, popularity. In power he was known as "the computerized bulldozer" for his forcefulness, particularly in pushing through pork barrel projects.  Behind-the-Scenes Power
        Out of office he was called "the shadow shogun," or "the godfather," for his behind-the-scenes power. He was involved in, and in many instances influenced, some of the most significant events in Japan's postwar history.
        In 1972, as a young, conservative Prime Minister, Mr. Tanaka normalized relations with China. As a Posts and Telecommunications Minister in the 1950's, he granted the first television broadcasting licenses in Japan. As Finance Minister in the early 1960's he oversaw the most dynamic period in Japan's postwar economic development, the so-called high-growth era.
        But Mr. Tanaka is likely to be remembered best for the corruption charges that dogged him much of his career, and the way his financial practices came to define the way his party, the Liberal Democrats, won and wielded power until being unseated this summer -- in the midst of a corruption scandal.
        Mr. Tanaka's arrest on July 27, 1976, on charges that he had accepted a multimillion-dollar bribe from the Lockheed Corporation just a few months after becoming Prime Minister shocked the nation. It resulted in tough anti-bribery laws in the United States. Had Stroke in 1985
        But in Japan it just meant that Mr. Tanaka had to exercise his authority surreptitiously, at times operating through two of his most trusted lieutenants, Noboru Takeshita and Shin Kanemaru.
        Mr. Tananka influenced the selection of the next three Prime Ministers and controlled party patronage. His power was only challenged after he was convicted in 1983 of accepting 500 million yen, or the current equivalent of about $4.5 million, in bribes from Lockheed, and then suffered a stroke in 1985. In the ensuing power struggle, Mr. Takeshita seized control of Mr. Tanaka's faction and then became Prime Minister.
        Mr. Takeshita, too, was forced out of office in an influence-peddling scandal. Then, last year, Mr. Kanemaru faced charges for accepting millions of dollars in improper political contributions.
        Eager to clean up politics, a number of young Liberal Democrats bolted from their party this summer. They brought down the Government and then formed a new one as part of a conservative, reformist coalition. However, the new Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, and the other key members of the coalition are all former members of Mr. Tanaka's faction. Turning Point in Japan
        Mr. Tanaka's rise marked a turning point in Japanese politics. Previous prime ministers had generally been distant, patrician men drawn from the nation's elite. Mr. Tanaka, by contrast, was the only postwar leader who had not earned a university degree.
        He had made a fortune operating a construction company in World War II and prided himself on his common touch. He was immensely popular among his mostly rural constituents, often offering them bitterly mocking attacks of his better-educated critics. Reports of his mistresses, his financial peccadilloes and even his conviction, which he was still appealing when he died, failed to weaken the support he enjoyed in his district.
        Mr. Tanaka's predecessor as Prime Minister, Eisaku Sato, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1974 for insuring that Japan would not develop nuclear weapons and for signing a treaty restricting the spread of nuclear technology.
        For Mr. Tanaka, who took office shortly after publishing a manifesto calling for massive construction projects across Japan, the prize was control over new bullet train lines, roadways and tunnels and new industrial developments that lifted, on occasion, the price of land he owned.  A Plan for Japan
        A book by Mr. Tanaka, "Building a New Japan: A Plan for Remodeling the Japanese Archipelago," was regarded as either a bold vision for modernizing this country and decentralizing the economy, or one of history's most audacious attempts at pork barrel spending.
        His tenure as Prime Minister was brief and rocky. In addition to the charges of corruption, Mr. Tanaka watched his standing in the polls plummet because of soaring inflation, which reached 25 percent, as a result of the OPEC oil embargo.
        A retired United States admiral's testimony in Congress that American warships had brought nuclear weapons into Japanese waters for years also created difficulties for Mr. Tanaka. Publicly, Japan has always insisted that as the only country to have faced an atomic bombardment, it refuses to permit such weapons on its shores.
        When Mr. Tanaka finally succumbed to pressure and resigned, the announcement was read by his chief Cabinet secretary, Nobuo Takeshita.
        Mr. Tanaka was born in a small town in Niigata Prefecture on May 4, 1918. After he turned 15, he worked at construction jobs, continuing his education part time at night school. He formed his first construction company at 18, then joined the army in 1939. His service was brief, however. He became ill and was discharged, permitting him to build his construction company into one of Japan's largest by the war's end. Several Scandals
        He won a seat in the powerful lower house of the Parliament in 1947, on his second try, and held on to it for four decades.
        Mr. Tanaka was long identified with the construction industry, because of his background and the fact that he was believed to have received large annual donations from the companies in return for contracts. But he never headed the Construction Ministry. Instead, Mr. Tanaka served at various times as Minister of Finance, of Posts and Telecommunications and of International Trade and Industry.
        Mr. Tanaka was brought down by a scandal involving allegedly improper land transactions and stories about his mistresses. Two years later came an even greater blow, this one from Washington.
        The Lockheed scandal was first disclosed during a Congressional hearing under Senator Frank Church on Feb. 4, 1976. Lockheed officials admitted to paying the 500 million yen to go-betweens, who passed the money to Mr. Tanaka in four installments.  Began an Appeal in 1983
        The aim was to purchase Mr. Tanaka's help in persuading All Nippon Airways to drop plans to buy McDonnell Douglas aircraft and instead buy L-1011 Tristar jets from Lockheed. The plan worked.
        Mr. Tanaka declared his innocence, even after he was convicted in 1983 and began to appeal. His political career did not come to an end until 1985, when he was felled by a stroke that impaired him physically and slurred his speech. That was when Mr. Takeshita saw his chance and usurped power from his mentor.
        Mr. Tanaka married the former Hana Sakamoto in 1942 and had two children, a son who died in his childhood and a daughter, Makiko. Her husband, Naoki, took the Tanaka name and was elected to Parliament, but he has remained a minor figure. She ran for her father's old seat in July and won with a strong showing.
        Mr. Tanaka is survived by his wife, daughter and grandson.
        Correction:  December 18, 1993, Saturday
        The obituary yesterday of Kakuei Tanaka, a former Prime Minister of Japan, described a bribe he was convicted of taking incorrectly in some editions. As explained elsewhere in the article, the amount was $4.5 million; it was not a multibillion-dollar bribe.
      