
        Ratu Sir Penaia Ganilau, President of Fiji, died on Wednesday at the Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington. He was 75.
        He had been treated for leukemia and died of a blood disorder, said Peter Halder, a presidential aide.
        Ratu Sir Penaia was flown to Washington three weeks ago from Suva, the Fijian capital, by a United States Air Force medical evacuation plane. It was the third time he had been treated at the hospital in the last 18 months.
        Under Fiji's Constitution, Ratu Sir Penaia's successor will be appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, which has represented traditional tribal leaders since Fiji gained independence from Britain in 1970 and became a parliamentary democracy.
        The death of Ratu Sir Penaia came two months before parliamentary elections that are scheduled for February. He became Fiji's first President after two military coups in 1987 led to the ouster of Queen Elizabeth II as the formal head of state of the Pacific island nation.
        He had previously served as the Queen's representative, or Governor General, after a long political career that included the post of Deputy Prime Minister.
        In the 1950's, Ratu Sir Penaia commanded the detatchment of Fijian troops who helped British forces fight Communist guerrilla insurgents in Malaya, which now is part of Malaysia.
        With the traditional title of Tui Cakau, Ratu Sir Penaia regularly mediated between militants among the indigenous Fijians and ethnic Indian politicians after coups by the army in the name of indigenous rights.
        Fiji's population of about 750,000 people is roughly divided between indigenous Fijians and ethnic Indians, who are the descendants of laborers imported by British colonizers.
        Ratu Sir Penaia is survived by his wife, Lady Bale Ganilau; six sons, Ratu Epeli Ganilau, Ratu Tomasi Korovakaturaga, Ratu Rabici Ganilau, Ratu Josefa Ganilau, Ratu Jone Ganilau, and Ratu Fugaway Ganilau; and two daughters, Adi Mei Gauna, and Adi Sivo Ganilau.
      