
        John W. Eckman, former chairman and chief executive of the Rorer Group, the drug and medical products manufacturer, and a director of its successor company, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, died Friday at Devon Manor Nursing Home in Devon, Pa. He was 74 and lived in Chester County, Pa., and Nantucket, Mass.
        He died of cancer of the lymph system, his family said.
        Mr. Eckman was known as the dean of chief executives of the American pharmaceutical industry at the peak of his career in the mid-1980's, and he remained active as a corporate director and philanthropist until he became ill earlier this year.
        Mr. Eckman joined Rorer, based in Fort Washington, Pa., in 1962, when it was a long-established but low-growth company with one well-known product, the antacid Maalox, and annual sales of $15 million. Over the next two decades, analysts said, he built it into a Fortune 500 company and one of the nation's largest makers of pharmaceuticals and medical products. Born in Queens
        John Whiley Eckman was born in Forest Hills, Queens, in 1919, graduated from the Trinity School in New York and attended Yale University before enrolling in the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a bachelor's degree in economics in 1943.
        In World War II, he was as a submarine officer, and in his last tour of duty was the commanding officer of a captured German U-boat, which he piloted on a record 33-day undersea voyage.
        After the war, he joined SmithKline and French Laboratories, based in Philadelphia, and in 1952 became vice president of Thomas Leeming & Company, later known as Pfizer. He joined Rorer in 1962 as executive vice president and was president from 1970 to 1980, chairman and chief executive from 1976 to 1985 and chairman of the executive committee from 1986 until a merger formed Rhone-Poulenc Rorer in July 1990.
        In expanding Rorer in the 1970's and 1980's, Mr. Eckman used the cash flow from Maalox to acquire 20 subsidiary companies and to develop a broad variety of pharmaceuticals and specialized medical products, including high-technology surgical instruments and diagnostic equipment. Charity and Civic Leader
        One of Philadelphia's best-known charity and civic leaders, Mr. Eckman contributed to and raised money for hospitals, schools, youth centers, homes for the elderly, social service agencies, urban improvement councils, historical societies and performing arts organizations.
        He was also chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia from 1977 to 1981, chairman of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association in 1981 and 1982, and a trustee of the University of Pennsylvania and a director of many companies and educational, medical and cultural institutions.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane Haussmann Eckman; a daughter, Alison Eckman Beiser of Houston; a son, Stephen Keyler Eckman of Mount Airy, Pa.; two stepdaughters, Jane Darden Ziesing of Nantucket and Heather Whitney Ziesing of Chester County; two sisters, Grace Eckman Gilbert of Sun City West, Ariz., and Alice Eckman Mason of Winnetka, Ill., and a grandson.
      