
        D. Mead Johnson, who turned a medium-sized family business that made infant formula into a worldwide marketer of nutritional products and pharmaceuticals, died Thursday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla., where he had retired. He was 78.
        Mr. Johnson, who had not been ill, died unexpectedly of natural causes, said Ed Mitchell of Bankers Trust of Florida, who is handling the estate.
        Mr. Johnson was the third generation of his family to serve as chief executive of Mead Johnson & Company. He did so from 1955 until 1968, when the company, which was founded in 1900 by his grandfather in Evansville, Ind., merged with Bristol-Myers.
        Born in Philadelphia, he spent most of his life in Evansville. He graduated as the valedictorian of his class at the Tennessee Military Institute in 1932 and was an honors graduate at Johns Hopkins University in 1936.
        He then joined the company as a sales representative in New York City and stepped into his first management position at the headquarters in Evansville in 1938. He became a vice president in 1949 and rose to executive vice president two years before taking over as president in 1955.
        During that tenure, annual sales of Mead Johnson & Company more than tripled, to $131 million, and its worldwide work force grew from 1,400 to 4,355. In 1989, two decades after the Bristol-Myers merger, a second merger formed the present Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, based in New York. But that giant's Mead Johnson nutritional group remains in Evansville.
        Mr. Mitchell, of Bankers Trust of Florida, said that a bad back had kept Mr. Johnson from being accepted for combat duty in World War II and that as a result he had gone to Britain to volunteer. He served with the British Eighth Army and was decorated by the British and French Governments.
        For a number of years he was a member of the board of Johns Hopkins.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by a son, Edward Mead Johnson 3d of Grandville, Mass.
      