
        Edward J. Ross, a lawyer in the case that pitted the estate of Mark Rothko against the Marlborough Gallery in the 1970's, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of complications from lymphoma, said his wife, Felice.
        The Rothko case, one of the art world's most celebrated legal battles, began in 1971 with charges that the three executors of the estate of the Abstract Expressionist painter, who died in 1970, had conspired with the Marlborough Gallery in New York to defraud the estate. Mr. Ross, the chief litigation partner for Breed Abbott & Morgan, represented the artist's daughter, Kate. In his investigation, he tracked Marlborough sales of Rothko works at prices sometimes 10 times higher than what the gallery had paid the estate for them. Executors Fined and Removed
        After six years, including a lengthy trial in Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, the litigation ended in 1977 with a victory for the estate and the two Rothko children, Kate and Christopher. The executors were removed; fines and damages of $9.3 million were levied against them and Frank Lloyd, head of the Marlborough Gallery, and the contracts with the gallery for purchase and consignment of about 800 Rothko works were canceled.
        In his later years, the public-interest aspect of art cases appealed to Mr. Ross, and he took on several in addition to the Rothko matter. In 1986, on behalf of the estate of Mathilde Beckmann, the widow of the Expressionist painter Max Beckmann, he brought a suit against two sisters who, executors of the estate claimed, had coerced the widow to assign the bulk of her assets to them. The assets, mostly paintings, were restored to the artist's family. Blocked Auction
        Recently, Mr. Ross represented Gillian T. Sackler, the widow of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, the medical entrepreneur and art collector, in efforts to prevent the vast Sackler art holdings from being sold by other family members. Mr. Ross blocked the sale, scheduled for Jan. 13 at Christie's, of a collection of majolica, a form of Renaissance and 18th-century pottery, owned by the doctor and designated for the National Gallery of Art in Washington.
        Born and reared in New York, Mr. Ross graduated in 1931 from the College of the City of New York and in 1934 from the Yale Law School, where he was an editor of The Yale Law Journal. In 1941 he became the regional price attorney for the Office of Price Administration, a wartime Federal agency. In 1943 he entered the Navy as a lieutenant in the legal department of the Bureau of Ships, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant commander.
        He had been with Breed Abbott & Morgan since 1946. An ice skater and ballroom dancer, he served as president of the Midtown Skating Club and at his death was president of the board of the American Ballroom Theater.
        In addition to his wife, the former Felice Teplitz, who married him in 1941, he is survived by two daughters, Andrea Dalton and Donna Leeb, of Manhattan; a son, Peter J. Ross, of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      