
        Arthur Markewich, a retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged on West 106th Street. He was 86 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side.
        His son Daniel said that the cause of death was pneumonia and that he had been in the nursing home since suffering a stroke a year ago.
        Justice Markewich was the justice presiding on the panel of Appellate Division judges that in 1976 disbarred Richard M. Nixon in New York State after Mr. Nixon's resignation as President in 1974 because of the Watergate scandal.
        The panel found Mr. Nixon guilty of violating the New York State Code of Professional Responsibility for lawyers. As the historian Stephen E. Ambrose wrote in the third volume of his biography "Nixon" (Simon & Schuster, 1991), "This was the first time Nixon had been found guilty by an official party of charges relating to Watergate." Violating a Code
        The disbarment came after the Grievance Committee of the City Bar Association in New York brought the charges against Mr. Nixon, contending that he had obstructed justice and had concealed evidence in the Watergate affair.
        It was by a vote of 4 to 1 that the five-justice panel sustained the charges and found Mr. Nixon, who had practiced law in Manhattan before becoming President, guilty of violating the code.
        In an unsigned decision -- of which Justice Markewich was a main drafter, his son Daniel said yesterday -- the panel affirmed that the essential part of Mr. Nixon's misconduct was his "obstruction of the due administration of justice, a most serious offense, but one which is rendered even more grievous by the fact that in this instance the perpetrator is an attorney and was at the time of the conduct in question the holder of the highest public office of this country and in a position of public trust."
        Justice Markewich was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1954, served a 14-year term, was re-elected and was elevated to the Appellate Division by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1968. He retired after serving another 14-year term.
        The future judge was born on the Upper West Side, grew up there and earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell in 1926 and a law degree from Columbia in 1929.
        In addition to his son Daniel, a lawyer who lives in South Nyack, N.Y., he is survived by his wife of 63 years, Dr. May Elish Markewich; another son, Dr. Maurice Markewich of Pleasantville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 27, 1993, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Arthur Markewich, a retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court, who died Wednesday, omitted the name of a brother. He is Robert Markewich of Manhattan.
      