
        Charles H. Callison, former executive vice president of the National Audubon Society and a major figure in the conservation movement, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Columbia, Mo. He was 79 and lived in Jefferson City, Mo.
        His wife, Amy, said the cause was complications following open-heart surgery.
        Mr. Callison was in the forefront of conservation issues at national, state and local levels for more than half a century. His efforts helped to focus attention on a broad range of problems from the defense of wildlife to the management of public lands.
        Strongly critical of the Bureau of Land Management, Mr. Callison said in a 1986 interview with The New York Times that the bureau's failure to act more swiftly to protect public lands meant "that a lot of areas of critical wildlife habitat, or supporting endangered species or unusual plant life, or archeological or historical treasures, will be abused by off-road vehicles, excessive grazing or unsupervised mining." Oversaw Audubon's Growth
        In his years at the National Audubon Society, from 1960 to 1977, the organization grew from a group of 50,000 bird watchers into a significant grass-roots force of nearly 400,000 wildlife advocates. Mr. Callison oversaw the chartering of hundreds of new chapters and chronicled developments in conservation in his regular "National Outlook" column for Audubon magazine.
        While he was with Audubon's national headquarters in New York, he led a successful campaign in 1965 for a billion-dollar New York State bond issue for water pollution control, fought to preserve the Adirondack Park and served on the New York State Environmental Board under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Leaving Audubon when he was 64, Mr. Callison founded the Public Lands Institute, a research and conservation organization that sought to overhaul the Bureau of Land Management in the Western states and Alaska. He was president of the Denver-based institute until 1986 and supervised its merger with the Natural Resources Defense Council of New York.
        He was appointed by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Richard M. Nixon and Jimmy Carter to serve on various advisory committees and boards dealing with wildlife, forestry, water pollution control and energy. Born in Canada
        Mr. Callison was conservation director and secretary of the National Wildlife Federation from 1953 until 1960. He was also chairman of the Natural Resources Council of America, a coordinating organization of about 40 national conservation groups and scientific societies, from 1957 to 1959.
        He joined the staff of the Missouri Conservation Commission in 1941 as chief of information and editor of the "Missouri Conservationist." In 1946 he became executive secretary of the Conservation Federation of Missouri.
        Returning to Missouri in 1982, he established a citizen's group, the Missouri Parks Association, to provide support for the state's park system. As volunteer executive secretary, he published a newsletter, Heritage, and successfully campaigned for a parks and soils tax.
        He was born in Lousana, Alberta, Canada, and at the age of 5, moved with his family to Holliday, Mo. He graduated from the School of Journalism at the University of Missouri in 1937 and received an honorary Ph.D. from his alma mater in 1979.
        Mr. Callison's books include "America's Natural Resources," edited for the Natural Resources Council (Ronald, 1957); "Areas of Critical Environmental Concern on the Public Lands," a two-volume study for the Public Lands Institute, 1984 and 1986, and "Overlooked in America: the Success and Failure of Federal Land Management" (Aperture, 1991).
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a brother, Paul, of Paris, Mo.; a son, C. Stuart Callison of Potomac, Md.; three daughters, Joyce Melville of Madison, Wis., Karen Bater of Pequannock, N.J., and Bettye Callison-Palermo of Rochester, and eight grandchildren.
      