
        Beaumont Newhall, a pioneering historian of photography and an ardent and articulate advocate of the medium, died yesterday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 84.
        Mr. Newhall's companion, Christi Newhall, his former wife, said the cause was complications from a stroke.
        It was in 1937, as the young librarian of the Museum of Modern Art, that Mr. Newhall first published his groundbreaking research into the history of photography. In that year he presented "Photography 1839-1937," an exhibition surveying the history of the medium that he had prepared at the invitation of Alfred H. Barr, the museum's director. An expanded version of Mr. Newhall's catalogue essay was published by the museum the following year as "Photography: A Short Critical History."
        Expressed in clear, forceful prose, Mr. Newhall's account of the development of the medium as both an art and a means of communication quickly became established as the pre-eminent history of photography. In 1947 Mr. Newhall was awarded a Guggenheim Foundation fellowship to rework his book, and the new version was published the following year under the title "The History of Photography, 1839 to the Present." Mr. Newhall continued to revise and expand his study over the years, and in 1982 it was published in its fifth edition.  A Harvard Graduate
        Mr. Newhall was born in Lynn, Mass., in 1908. He studied art history at Harvard, graduating in 1930. He received a master's degree from Harvard in 1931, and later studied at the University of Paris and the Courtauld Institute of Art of the University of London. He worked briefly at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art before being hired in 1935 as the librarian at the Modern.
        In addition to his central role as a chronicler of photography, Mr. New hall served for many years as a leading curator and museum director. In 1940 he was named the first curator of the newly created Department of Photography at the Modern. When Mr. Newhall was called to military service in 1942, his first wife, Nancy, took over the department, but upon his return in 1945 he resumed his duties as curator.
        In 1947, the photographer Edward Steichen was hired to be head of the department of photography, and Mr. Newhall left the museum. The following year he was named curator of the George Eastman House, now known as the International Museum of Photography, a museum in Rochester devoted to the medium. In 1958 Mr. Newhall became director of the Eastman House, a position he held until 1971 when he retired to join the faculty of the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. In 1984 he was named an emeritus professor of the university. A Scholar and Author
        Despite his curatorial duties, Mr. Newhall was a prolific scholar, publishing over 600 articles, catalogue essays, and books. In addition to his history, he produced many innovative studies of the medium, including "The Daguerreotype in America" (1961), "Airborne Camera" (1969) and "Frederick H. Evans" (1975). His "Latent Image: The Discovery of Photography" (1961) remains perhaps the best account of the events leading up to the announcement of the first photographic processes in 1839.
        Mr. Newhall was a friend of many of the most important photographers of his time, including Edward Weston, Ansel Adams and Henri Cartier-Bresson; this fact lent added authority and insight to his writing about the medium.
        In recent years, the enormous influence of Mr. Newhall's history made it a target for younger scholars, who criticized it as unresponsive to contemporary trends. Mr. Newhall was a strong advocate of the Modernist tradition in photography, arguing for "the direct use of the camera for what it can do best, and that is the revelation, interpretation, and discovery of the world of man and nature."  A Tough Critic
        He did not mince words in his criticism of some recent styles. He described attempts to use photography in a narrative fashion as "basically illustration, related more to the dramatic arts than to the inherent qualities of the photographic medium," and wrote that pictures that combine photographs with painting or printmaking "have little to do with photography."
        In his later years Mr. Newhall devoted himself increasingly to his own photographs, straightforward black-and-white images of people and architecture presented in strong compositions. In 1983 a collection of his pictures was published by Peregrine Smith; his memoirs will be published by Bulfinch Press in August.
        In addition to Ms. Newhall, Mr. Newhall is survived by her son, Theo Christopher Newhall, of Santa Fe.
      