
        Norman H. Strouse, who started as a secretary in a newspaper advertising office and became the head of the world's largest ad agency, died on Tuesday at a hospital in St. Helena, Calif. He was 86 and lived in St. Helena.
        He died of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Strouse worked 40 years at the J. Walter Thompson agency. In 1955 he was promoted to president over 84 other vice presidents. He was made chief executive in 1960 and was chairman from 1964 until he retired in 1968.
        During his tenure in charge of the agency, then the world's largest, billings nearly tripled, and he was credited with modernizing organization and management. He was also chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the recipient of advertising's Gold Medal Award.
        An early career coup was his popularizing of the concept of the two-car American family. When suburbia boomed after World War II, he worked in Detroit on the Ford account. Ford was reorganizing and trying to shed its reputation for antiquated automobiles.
        He helped update its image and persuade the public of the desirability of having one car for the husband commuting to work and another for the modern wife's homemaker errands. Ford promoted its affordability as "two cars for the price of one."
        After retiring in 1968, Mr. Strouse focused on his hobby of collecting rare books, fine printing and bindings. He specialized in books by Thomas Carlyle, works bound by Thomas Bird Moser and 12th- to 16th-century illuminated manuscripts.
        He donated more than 1,500 volumes to the University of California at Berkeley and a Carlyle collection to the University of California at Santa Cruz, where he taught about books. He and his wife founded the Silverado Museum in St. Helena, dedicated to Robert Louis Stevenson, with more than 6,000 books and other items. He also wrote four books, including "How to Build a Poor Man's Morgan Library."
        His wife of 37 years, the former Charlotte Auger, died in 1982.
        Surviving are a son, W. Stanley Holt, of London; two daughters, Patricia Beresford of Winchester Center, Conn., and Johanna Edwards of Leawood, Kan.; a sister, Raibin Strouse of Tacoma, Wash.; seven grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      