
        Paul R. Anderson, the retired president of Temple University and Chatham College, died on Sunday at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 85.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Anderson became Temple's president in 1967 as students on campuses across the nation were protesting the Vietnam War and demonstrating on behalf of civil rights.
        His own inauguration at the Philadelphia campus was disrupted when hundreds of students, many bearing signs, walked out. In 1970 he was criticized by Frank Rizzo, then the city's police commissioner and later its mayor, for offering meeting space at Temple for a national convention of the Black Panthers.
        Dr. Anderson weathered the tumult and was credited with guiding Temple through it. He retired in 1973. Teacher and Administrator
        In his career as a professor and administrator, he taught at MacMurray College for Women in Jacksonville, Ill.; Lake Erie College in Painesville, Ohio; Oberlin College in Ohio; American University in Lebanon, and Lawrence College in Appleton, Wis., where he was also a dean.
        In 1945 he was appointed president of the Pennsylvania College for Women, a Pittsburgh institution that was renamed Chatham College in 1955. In 1960 he became vice president for academic affairs at Temple.
        Dr. Anderson served as president of the Pennsylvania Association of Colleges and Universities and the Pennsylvania Foundation of Independent Colleges. He was chairman of the Governor's Commission on Higher Education, the Penn Center Academy and the American Council on Education's Committee on Measurement and Evaluation.
        A native of Akron, Ohio, he graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1929. He earned his doctorate in philosophy at Columbia in 1933.
        Dr. Anderson, who was previously married to Betty Ann Brown and Ruth Kelly, is survived by his wife of two years, the former Mern Anthony; a son, Bayard D., of Newtown Square, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      