
        Msgr. Joseph P. Moore, a priest of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York and longtime chaplain at the United States Military Academy, died on Wednesday at the residence of St. Augustine's Rectory in Ossining, N.Y. He was 87.
        Msgr. Robert F. McCormick, the pastor of St. Augustine's, said he had been ill for a long time.
        Monsignor Moore served at the Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., from 1939 to 1967. During those years he redecorated and enlarged the Academy's Holy Trinity Chapel and conducted the Roman Catholic Choir of 60 cadets. As pastor of Holy Trinity he also led adult discussion groups and taught classes in religion.
        He was a native of Yonkers, the eighth child of Irish immigrant parents, Thomas and Catherine Moore. After public elementary school, he entered Cathedral Preparatory Seminary and College, graduating in 1923. Ordained at 24
        He trained at St. Joseph Seminary and was ordained a priest in the New York Archidiocese in 1929, when he was 24. His first assignment at St. Peter's Church in Poughkeepsie lasted six years, when he became assistant pastor at Corpus Christi Catholic Church in Manhattan.
        The church on West 121st Street served many students from nearby Columbia University. Among them was Thomas Merton, the French-born son of a Church of England father and a Quaker mother whose readings and sense of social injustice had led him toward Catholicism and service in a Catholic settlement house in Harlem.
        Father Moore instructed him at Corpus Christi and received him into the Roman Catholic Church. Mr. Merton was then ordained, entered a Trappist monastery and became an author of religious prose and poetry.
        After leaving West Point in 1967, Monsignor Moore served as pastor of St. Joseph's Church in Bronxville. He retired to St. Augustine's in 1980 but performed parish duties until a stroke left him partly paralyzed him three years ago.
        Throughout his 63 years in the priesthood, he pursued his interest in church liturgy and music, and often acted as choir master. He also was an avid golfer. During his tenure at West Point, first as assistant pastor and then pastor, he was elevated by Pope Pius XIIto Monsignor.
        He is survived by a niece, Barbara N. Dauherty of Novato, Calif.
      