
        Oliver Hailey, a prolific playwright and writer of film and television dramas, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 60 and died of cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth Forsythe Hailey.
        The dark and humorous sides of families and of personal relationships were the broad theme of Mr. Hailey's work, often described as black comedy by reviewers. Among his many television credits were work on "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman," "McMillan and Wife," "Family," and "The Cosby Show."
        On Broadway, Mr. Hailey may not be remembered as much for his three plays that appeared there -- "First One Asleep, Whistle," "Father's Day," and "I Won't Dance" -- as for the fact that each closed after a single performance.
        A reviewer once called Mr. Hailey the "most produced, least successful" playwright in the New York theater, and Mrs. Hailey vigorously agreed with the assessment. She said that her husband often joked to friends about the distinction of having each of his Broadway productions open and close the same day. 'They Ran All Evening'
        "He used to say, 'They ran all evening,' " she remembered.
        Four more of his plays were produced Off Broadway in the 1960's and 70's, and numerous others have appeared in regional theaters, including a revival last year of the 1967 play "Who's Happy Now ?" in Croton Falls, N.Y. Altogether, Mr. Hailey wrote more than 20 plays.
        Acting students drawn by the taut dialogue and whimsical humor in his work often used scenes from Mr. Hailey's plays for theatrical studies and workshops. Mr. Hailey was also an energetic advocate of new playwrights, and Beth Henley is among those whose work he helped promote.
        Mr. Hailey was born in Texas in 1932, and was graduated from the University of Texas in 1954 before joining the United States Air Force, where he spent three years.
        He began his writing career as a reporter on the Dallas Morning News in 1957. It was there that he met Elizabeth Forsythe, another reporter, who later became a successful novelist. They were married in 1960. Play Reading Scheduled
        Mr. Hailey studied at the Yale Drama School under John Gassner and earned a Masters of Fine Arts in 1962. His first play, "Hey You, Light Man!" was produced in New York the following year.
        He moved to Los Angeles in 1967 when "Who's Happy Now" was produced there at the Mark Taper Forum. He wrote, edited and produced numerous television and film scripts, but retained a preference for theater until he died.
        A reading of his last play "The World and His Wife," is scheduled to be held today at the Tamarind Theater in Los Angeles, a commitment made several weeks ago. Mrs. Hailey said her husband was still working on an ending for the play last week.
        Mr. Hailey suffered from Parkinson's disease for 10 years, but his death from cancer of liver came suddenly, Mrs. Hailey said. The disease was diagnosed only a week ago.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Hailey is survived by two daughters, Kendall, of Los Angeles, and Brooke, of New York.
      