
        Brett Weston, a photographer long renowned for his magisterial, sharply delineated landscapes and close-ups of plant forms, sand dunes and other natural objects, died on Friday, at Kona Hospital in Hawaii. He was 81 and lived in Carmel, Calif., and Paradise Park, on the island of Hawaii.
        Mr. Weston died of complications from a stroke, his brother Neil said.
        Throughout Mr. Weston's life his work was inevitably compared to that of his father, Edward, the pioneering modernist. Like his father, Mr. Weston strove in his photography to record subjects as clearly and dispassionately as possible, using large-format cameras and sharp-focus lenses and rejecting any darkroom manipulations of the image. This approach, known as straight or pure photography, exerted a major influence on the development of the medium as an art form.  An Eye for Nature's Patterns
        Many of the subjects Mr. Weston photographed, which ranged from the patterns in cracked windows to eroded rocks on the beach near his home in Carmel, recalled those of his father's work. Both men stressed the powerful, semiabstract shapes that could be attained by photographing natural subjects in close-up, but Mr. Weston's pictures were generally considered to be crisper than his father's in their rendering of detail, and harsher in their emotional tone.
        Born in Los Angeles in 1911, Mr. Weston traveled to Mexico with his father and the photographer Tina Modotti in 1925. It was there, at the age of 13, that he made his first photographs.  Even his earliest pictures revealed his ability to recognized strong, simple forms in everyday scenes. The father often praised the son's work, and Mr. Weston's 1925 photograph from a corrugated-iron roof bisected by a strong diagonal shadow was included by the historian Beaumont Newhall in his standard history of the medium.  Inspiration in the California Coastline
        In 1929, Mr. Weston moved with his father to San Francisco, then back to Carmel, the small seaside town south of the city. Both men explored the rich natural beauty of the area, and particularly the rugged, cypress-covered hillsides and rocky beaches of Point Lobos. During this period, Mr. Weston and his father began photographing driftwood, seaweed and eroded rocks in close-up, producing pictures that emphasized the abstract patterns of light and texture formed by the objects.
        In 1930, Mr. Weston set up a portrait studio in Glendale, Calif., and later moved to Santa Barbara. In 1932, he was given his first major solo exhibition, at the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum in San Francisco. Later the same year he was invited to be part of an exhibition at the Oakland Museum of work by the members of Group f.64, photographers who were inspired by Edward Weston's work and ideas.
        The group, whose members included Ansel Adams, Imogen Cunningham, Willard Van Dyke and others, took their name from the aperture setting on a lens that would secure maximum sharpness in the image.
        During World War II, Mr. Weston served in the Army and was stationed in New York. In 1947 he received a fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation to photograph up and down the East Coast.
        In subsequent years, Mr. Weston photographed widely in Europe, Baja California, Japan and Alaska. In the 1980's he purchased a home in Hawaii and began to divide his time between there and Carmel.
        Mr. Weston was renowned as a master craftsman whose large prints were characterized by great detail and rich, subtle tonalities. In December 1991 he created a stir among photographers when, on his 80th birthday, he destroyed all but 12 of his negatives. He did so, he said, because he felt he alone was capable of making the kind of print needed to express his vision fully.
        In 1980 Mr. Weston's work was collected in a lavish catalogue, "Photographs from Five Decades," published by Aperture. He continued to photograph until shortly before his death.
        Married and divorced four times, he is survived by a daughter, Erica, of Santa Fe, N.M., and his brothers: Neil, of Waikaloa, Hawaii; Chandler, of Prunedale, Calif., and Cole, of Garrapata, Calif.
      