
        William Pene du Bois, the author and illustrator of popular children's books known for both whimsy and serious themes, died on Friday at a hospital in Nice, France, where he lived. He was 76.
        His death came after a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. du Bois also illustrated other books and magazines, but he specialized in creating dozens of children's books, starting in his early 20's and continuing the rest of his life.
        The American Library Association honored him with its Newbery Award for the best children's book in 1948 for "The Twenty-One Balloons," about an airborne escape from an eruption of the volcano Krakatoa.
        In his "Lion" (Viking, 1956), the Animal Factory boss invents the lion. But the prototype is small, fat and multicolored with feathers, a fish tail and a peeping voice. Fortunately, the boss consults his staff, and the lion benefits from a complete makeover before final production. 'A Total Performance'
        The New York Times Book Review named Mr. du Bois's "Bear Circus" one of the 10 best children's works in 1971, calling it "a total performance that is a genuine comedy, a work of literary merit where pictures and text control and sustain more serious undertones." The book describes koala bears encountering a crashed pink circus airplane. A Times review called Mr. du Bois "a rare artist-author, one of the most talented and stylistic."
        In a series on the seven deadly sins, gluttony was the topic of "Porko von Popbutton" (Harper & Row, 1969). It told the trials of a fat boy who aspired to the school hockey team, which discovered his body was almost big enough to block the entire goal.
        "Otto and the Magic Potatoes" (Viking, 1970) was about a large dog -- two and half stories tall -- and giant potatoes that wept so profusely from every eye that nothing was left but their big brown skins, collapsed like tents.
        Returning to bears, a favorite theme, his "Gentleman Bear" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1986) described the adventures of Lord Billy Browne-Browne and his constant companion, Bayard the teddy bear, at the Olympics, meeting Hitler and getting shot down in an airplane.
        "Bear Party" (Viking, 1951) told how squabbling koala bears eventually returned to harmony. A Times review said: "Children will want to hear and see it over and over -- which will work no hardship on the adults who share the fun."
        Mr. du Bois was born in Nutley, N.J., to a family of artists. His father, Guy, was a painter and teacher, and his cousin Raoul was a noted set and costume designer. He studied in France and learned art from his father.
        In World War II he served in the United States Army as an artist and editor for Yank and other publications. He was also a founding editor of The Paris Review.
        He was married twice, to Jane Michele Bouche and to Willa Kim, a designer, both of Manhattan. He is also survived by his companion, Reneclair Sinreich, and his sister, Yvonne McKenney of Boston.
      