
        Eliot Janeway, the political economist and author whose career spanned seven decades, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Mr. Janeway had been in declining health for some years, suffering from diabetes and heart problems, his son Michael said.
        Mr. Janeway was a vigorous critic of economic policies adopted by American Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan, a stock market forecaster whose gloomy predictions earned him the nickname "Calamity Janeway" on Wall Street, and a tireless commentator on the changing business scene.  Linked Economics and Politics
        Although he majored in economics at Cornell University and did graduate work at the London School of Economics in the early 1930's, Mr. Janeway did not champion any branch of economic theory. Rather, his writings stemmed from the hypothesis that political pressures determine economic and market trends.
        "I'm the last person who could be accused of practicing economics in any sort of computerized vacuum," he once told an interviewer. "Political economy is not a science, it's a clinical art, like medicine."
        Henry Kaufman, the former chief economist for Salomon Brothers who now runs his own money management firm, said: "He always tried to link politics and economics. I always found him very interesting and provocative."  'Colorfully Irreverent'
        Indicative of Mr. Janeway's ability to arouse attention is a recommendation in his last book, "The Economics of Chaos," published in 1989, in which he urged the Treasury Department to invest Social Security and other Government trust funds more aggressively, to generate greater benefits in the future. Such greater benefits, Mr. Janeway said, would in turn coax millions of workers in the underground economy to pay their taxes in order to reap the rewards of Government-sponsored programs.
        Reviewing the book for The New York Times, Jeffrey E. Garten, an investment banker, said he found most of the suggestions unworkable but called the book "a colorfully irreverent and passionate essay."
        Mr. Janeway's analysis and criticism of President Lyndon B. Johnson's handling of the Vietnam War was considerably more prescient. As an informal adviser during Mr. Johnson's career in the United States House of Representatives and the Senate, Mr. Janeway urged him to run for the presidency in 1956 and was an active fund-raiser for Mr. Johnson during the 1960 Democratic Presidential primary. Breakoke With JohnsonLBJ Over Vietnam
        After Mr. Johnson became President in November 1963, Mr. Janeway disagreed with him on many points of fiscal policy, and broke irrevocably with the President when Mr. Johnson escalated the war in Vietnam in 1965.
        "I was not arguing against the war itself; that is not my field of expertise," he once told an interviewer. "I said that putting it on the back of the economy without raising taxes and instituting controls would bring on disaster."
        Mr. Janeway's writing career began at 24, when he wrote a series of articles for The Nation magazine predicting the 1937-1938 inventory recession and proposing a massive program of government investment in transportation and power equipment to cure it. Hired by Luce
        "The Depression transformed economics from a subject of study into an obstacle to be overcome," Mr. Janeway said in the 1988 interview.
        The articles attracted interest in the Roosevelt Administration and brought him some influence within its policy-making councils.
        Another interested reader was Henry R. Luce, who hired Mr. Janeway to write part-time for Time and Fortune magazines. Mr. Janeway worked for the magazines until 1944, but for the next four years he worked directly for Mr. Luce, writing a private weekly economic and political advisory letter.
        In 1948, he quit to write his first book, "Struggle for Survival," a study of the Roosevelt Administration's war-mobilization policies, published in 1951. Economic Advisory Newsletters
        In 1955, Mr. Janeway started two weekly economic advisory newsletters that formed the heart of the Janeway Publishing and Research Corporation, a business he operated out of his five-story town house on East 80th Street.
        In addition to his newsletters, in the 1960's and 1970's Mr. Janeway was a syndicated columnist for The Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate.
        Over the years, Mr. Janeway never actually wrote his views. He dictated them.
        "I don't think of myself as a writer," he once said. "I'm a talker who reduces some of what he says to writing."  Voracious Reader
        He tended to begin his days about 9 A.M. by reading a dozen newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and to finish around 3 A.M. by reading history, economics, biographies or novels.
        His wife, the former Elizabeth Hall, is a novelist and essayist. They married in 1938.
        Mr. Janeway was born in New York City on Jan. 1, 1913, the son of Meyer Joseph Janeway and the former Fanny Siff.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Janeway is survived by two sons, Michael C. of Evanston, Ill., and William H. of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      