
        Erling Dekke Naess, a former chairman of the Anglo-Norness Shipping Company, a tanker fleet, died Sunday at his home in Bermuda. He was 91.
        His son Michael said Mr. Naess died of complications from kidney failure.
        Mr. Naess established Anglo-Norness in Bermuda in 1959, building it into one of the largest tanker and bulk-carrier fleets in the world, operating under the flags of five nations. The group was sold to the Zapata Corporation of Houston in 1968.
        Mr. Naess, a native of Norway, rose to prominence in international shipping as deputy director of the Norwegian Shipping and Trade Mission from 1942 to 1946. This agency, based in Washington and New York, was established by the Norwegian Government in exile to operate its national fleet during World War II. Promoter of Norse Registry
        In 1960 Mr. Naess was a founder of the American Committee for Flags of Necessity, now known as the Federation of American-Controlled Shipping. In the mid-1960's, he was also a founder of the International Association of Independent Tanker Owners and served as its first chairman.
        After retiring in 1980, Mr. Naess worked vigorously to persuade Norway to establish a free registry for vessels flying the Norwegian flag. Largely through his efforts, the Norwegian International Ship Register has become one of the largest registries.
        Mr. Naess graduated from the University of Oslo in 1922 and went on to the London School of Economics, studying under John Maynard Keynes and receiving a master's degree in economics.
        He is survived by his wife, Elisabeth Thorsen Naess; three sons, Michael R. Naess of Bermuda, Janecke B. Madsen of New Canaan, Conn., and Per Fredrik Naess of Evergreen, Colo.; two daughters, Karen F. Budd of Devon, Pa., and Astrid M. Gifford of Vail, Colo.; a stepdaughter, Jennifer Moe of New Canaan; two brothers, Ragnar D. Naess of Essex, Conn., and Prof. Arne Naess of Oslo; a sister, Christina Naess of Oslo; 14 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      