
        Harold Taylor, an innovative educator who became a college president at 30 and said, "What is wrong with a great deal of higher education in America is that it is simply boring," died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78.
        His family attributed his death to natural causes. He lived in Manhattan and Holderness, N.H.
        Dr. Taylor, who became a champion of educational change, was a little-known philosophy teacher at the University of Wisconsin when he was chosen in 1949 to head Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, N.Y. He was the nation's youngest college president. Unconventional Views
        Sarah Lawrence College had set new paths in education when it opened in 1928 offering what it called progressive education. That matched his own unconventional views, and soon he was widely known as a critic of traditional practices and a proponent of change.
        "This business of knowledge through suffering is rubbish," Dr. Taylor said. He told a 1947 conference: "The whole educational system has become one massive quiz program, with the prizes going to the most enterprising, most repulsively well-informed person -- the man with his hand up first."
        Sarah Lawrence gave no grades or report cards. Classes were few and small in size. Students developed their own courses of independent study, in close consultation with professors, and received detailed evaluations.
        The campus was known for informality; blue jeans were allowed long before they became the norm everywhere. Students governed themselves democratically and took turns doing chores like waiting tables and scrubbing floors.
        He defended academic freedom against McCarthyism. He also pressed for racial integration at Sarah Lawrence, then a women's college with a predominantly white enrollment and one of the nation's highest tuitions. Active in Peace Efforts
        After he retired from Sarah Lawrence in 1959, Dr. Taylor taught at the New School for Social Research and City University of New York, founded the Center for International Service at Staten Island College, led the National Committee for Support of the Public Schools and was the host of ABC television's "Meet the Professor" series in 1962-63.
        Dr. Taylor also was active in the performing arts and in peace efforts. He was a past president of the American Ballet Theater and Agnes de Mille Dance Theater, vice chairman of the Martha Graham School for Contemporary Dance, and chairman of the Peace Research Institute and National Research Council on Peace Strategy. He also was a human-rights adviser to Adlai E. Stevenson and a leader of the U.S. Committee on the United Nations University.
        Among his hundreds of articles and many books were "How to Change Colleges: Notes on Radical Reform" (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1971) and "Students Without Teachers: The Crisis in the University" (McGraw-Hill, 1969), which a review in The New York Times called "a blueprint for radical change in the whole style and purpose of our colleges and universities."
        Dr. Taylor was born in Toronto. He graduated from the University of Toronto in 1935, earned a master's degree there in 1936 and a doctorate in philosophy at the University of London in 1938.
        His marriage to Grace Muriel Thorne ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two daughters, Mary E. Lehner of Waitsfield, Vt., and Jennifer Thorne Tuthill of Bozeman, Mont.; a sister, GlaydisNeilson of Ontario, Canada, and three grandchildren.
      