
        Dr. Albert D. Anderson, who became a doctor to disabled patients and an expert on rehabilitation through his own struggle with a rare disease, died Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in the Bronx.
        He had been in a coma since being stricken by pneumonia in July, his family said.
        As a teen-ager, Dr. Anderson began suffering symptoms that were eventually diagnosed as resulting from syringomyelia, a spinal-cord disease causing progressive loss of motor control. There is no known cure.
        While he was a Harvard medical student, his manual dexterity deteriorated, forcing him to abandon a career in surgery. He chose instead to become a physiatrist, a doctor of physical therapy.
        He was the founding director of the rehabilitation medicine department at Harlem Hospital Center and was also a physician at Montefiore and Presbyterian hospitals.
        Dr. Anderson taught about rehabilitation at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York University and Columbia University, where he was a professor of clinical rehabilitation medicine.
        He served as president of the New York Society of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation sections of the New York Academy of Medicine and of the State Medical Society. Focused on Feelings
        As a consultant, lecturer and author, he often focused on patients' feelings. One article he wrote for the New England Journal of Medicine was titled "Prelude to Death: Emotional Effects of Lower Limb Amputation in the Aged." An article in another publication was titled "Why Me."
        Dr. Anderson was the chairman of Harlem Hospital's Construction Committee and president of its medical board and chairman of a committee to recruit minority medical students at Columbia. He was also the founding director of Harlem Learning Experience, which trains health-care professionals on the needs of patients in Harlem.
        Dr. Anderson was born in New York City. After graduating from Columbia in 1948, he earned his medical degree in 1952. He served briefly in the Army but was given a medical discharge.
        His marriages to Roslyn Weiner and Nancy Elmer ended in divorce. His third wife, the former Mercedes Cartier, is deceased. He is survived by a son, James A. of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Nancy Ann Anderson of Mozambique, and two granddaughters.
      