
        Eleazar Lipsky, a novelist and lawyer who was prominent in Jewish affairs, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 81 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        His son Michael said the cause was leukemia.
        A 100-page manuscript by Mr. Lipsky was the basis of the 1947 film "Kiss of Death," starring Richard Widmark, and the full novel was published by Penguin that same year. His detective novel "The People Against O'Hara" (Doubleday, 1950) was made into a 1951 movie starring Spencer Tracy. He also wrote the detective novel "Murder One" (Doubleday, 1948).
        Martin Levin, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called Mr. Lipsky's book "Malpractice" (Morrow, 1972) "a brilliant courtroom novel." Another Times critic, Orville Prescott, wrote in The Times that Mr. Lipsky's book "The Scientists" (Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1959), another novel with a legal background, had "crisp dialogue, smooth professional polish and considerable dramatic flair." His other nondetective novels were "Lincoln McKeever" (Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1953) and "The Devil's Daughter" (Meredith, 1969) Also Wrote for Radio
        Mr. Lipsky's other writings included a series of radio dramas under the title "Indictment" that were broadcast in the late 1950's, and two plays.
        Mr. Lipsky, who practiced law until three weeks ago, was an assistant district attorney for Manhattan in the 1940's and later had a diversified law practice in Manhattan and served as legal counsel to the Mystery Writers of America. In recent years, he helped many artists with their legal problems as counsel to the New York City Artists' Equity.
        At his death, Mr. Lipsky was on the board of the American Jewish League for Israel, and he had been active in other Jewish organizations. In the 1960's he was president of the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, a press association specializing in covering news of Jewish interest. He was also a co-founder of The Jewish Week, a newspaper published in New York.
        He was born in the Bronx, the son of Louis Lipsky, an American Zionist leader, and went on to earn bachelor's and law degrees from Columbia University.
        In addition to his son Michael, he is survived by his wife, the former Hannah Kohn, to whom he was married in 1935; two other sons, David, of Manhattan, and Jonathan, a playwright, of Arlington, Mass.; four grandsons, and two brothers, David, of Manhattan, and Joel, who has written books on the Middle East and other subjects under the name Joel Carmichael, also of Manhattan.
      