
        A. Pharo Gagge, a biophysicist who was a leader in studying the interaction of human body temperature with the environment, died on Saturday at his home in Branford, Conn. He was 85.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        His work had wide applications for health, safety and comfort in the design of clothing, equipment, buildings, air heating and cooling and other work and living conditions in situations ranging from steel mills to space exploration.
        In his emerging field, he developed basic principles like the relation of skin wetness to discomfort, the "met unit" to measure metabolic activity and "effective air temperature" to gauge the combined effect of temperature and humidity on body heat regulation and comfort. Devised the 'Clo'
        He conceived the standard measure for the insulation value of clothing as the "clo" and arbitrarily rated a business suit at 1 clo. Studies rated the insulation of a long-sleeved shirt and tie at 0.29 clo, for example, and socks at 0.03 and pantyhose at 0.01.
        Dr. Gagge (pronounced like baggy) also worked on oxygen masks and anti-gravity suits for high-altitude flights, atmospheric ionization and the scattering of electrons in gases.
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, Dr. Gagge grew up in Richmond. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Virginia and a doctorate in physics at Yale in 1933, when he joined Yale and its affiliated John B. Pierce Laboratory.
        In 1941 he joined the Aeromedical Laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and became chief of biophysics. In 1950-51 he was chief of medical research for the Surgeon General. From 1951-55 he served as the chief of the Human Factors Division Directorate in the Air Force. From 1955-60 he was deputy commander and then commander of the Office of Scientific Research. From 1960-63 he was the manager of cloud physics weather modification for the Secretary of Defense. He retired as a colonel.
        He returned to Yale and Pierce in 1963 and retired in 1978.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Edwina Mead; two daughters, Eleanor Martin of Severna Park, Md.; Ann Gagge of Jacksonville, Fla.; two sons, Peter of Central Falls, R.I., and John of Jacksonville, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      