
        Michael F. Adubato, a former New Jersey Assemblyman who sponsored a bill that changed the way the state's motorists pay for automobile insurance, died on Saturday at Claramaass Hospital in Belleville, N.J. He was 58 and lived in Newark.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his nephew, Stephen Adubato Jr.
        Mr. Adubato, a Democrat, was elected to nine consecutive terms, beginning in 1974, and represented the 28th and 30th Districts, which included Hudson and Essex Counties. He did not run for re-election in 1991.
        In 1983, Gov. Thomas H. Kean signed the Automobile Insurance Reform Act, which was sponsored by Mr. Adubato. The law eliminated the "assigned risk plan," under which 1.4 million motorists who could not obtain insurance on their own were assigned to insurance companies. Also an Insurance Executive
        The new system was meant to hold down costs for those drivers, who paid rates for collision and comprehensive coverage higher than the 1.9 million motorists insured under the voluntary market and whose rates climb after they are involved in accidents.
        In 1984, Mr. Adubato and Stephen Adubato Jr. became the only uncle and nephew to serve together in the State Legislature. The nephew served from 1984 to 1986.
        After leaving office, he was a consultant on insurance matters to the Speaker of the House and the minority leader of the Assembly. Mr. Adubato was an insurance executive and the president of Adubato Associates and a general agent for Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company of Chattanooga, Tenn.
        He was also a trustee of the Boys and Girls Club of Newark and a board member of the North Ward Center in Newark, a nonprofit community group providing day-care and other services. He was born in Newark on Sept. 15, 1934, and attended Seton Hall University and Jersey City State College.
        He is survived by his wife, Peggy; two sons, Richard, of Crawford, N.J., and Michael, of Bloomfield, N.J.; a daughter, Lisa Nesi, of Crawford; two brothers, Frank, of Kenilworth, N.J., and Steve, of Newark; two sisters, Lenore DeGhetto of Clifton, N.J., and Carol Brown of Rutherford, N.J., and one granddaughter.
      