
        Philip S. Klein, a professor and historian who was an authority on President James Buchanan, died Feb. 15 at his home in State College, Pa. He was 83.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        His book, "President James Buchanan" (Pennsylvania State University Press, 1962) was considered the definitive work on Buchanan and is in the White House collection of Presidential biographies.
        John Updike credited the book as "my main text, source and guide" for his play "Buchanan Dying" and novel "Memories of the Ford Administration" (Knopf, 1992), about a Buchanan biographer. He praised Dr. Klein's mastery of detail, novelistic touches and animated vignettes.
        Defending Buchanan, whose term preceded Abraham Lincoln's, against historians who rated him among the nation's least effective Presidents, Dr. Klein focused on the President's efforts to prevent the Civil War. He also wrote other history books and articles and was a past president of the Pennsylvania Historical Association and the Historical Foundation of Pennsylvania.
        A native of Allentown, Pa., he grew up in Lancaster County, where Buchanan was born. After graduating from Franklin and Marshall College, Dr. Klein earned a master's degree in international law at the University of Chicago and a doctorate in history from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He was born to a family of historians. His father, H. M. J. Klein, and a brother, Frederic, wrote histories of Lancaster. The three Kleins were once the entire history faculty at Franklin and Marshall. Later Dr. Klein taught at Pennsylvania State and for three years was its chairman of the history department. He retired in 1972.
        In World War II he served in the Navy on anti-submarine duty in the Caribbean and later helped write the history of the war in the Pacific.
        He was married to Dorothy Orr, who died in 1991. His survivors are a son, J. Douglass of Schenectady, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      