
        Thomas A. Dorsey, who was widely known as the father of gospel music, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 93 years old.
        He had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, Doris.
        "Few composers dominate their genre so dramatically as Thomas Andrew Dorsey, father of the gospel song; the lion's share of the most popular gospel compositions are his," wrote Anthony Heilbut, an authority on gospel music, in reviewing a biography of Mr. Dorsey in The New York Times Book Review in August.
        Moments before the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in 1968, he asked to have Mr. Dorsey's best-known gospel song, "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," performed, and in the following days, Mr. Heilbut wrote, "it nearly replaced 'Amazing Grace' as an anthem of black America." Using Elements of Blues
        By the time he was a teen-ager, Mr. Dorsey was a pianist and composer, then mainly of secular blues music. He came to combine elements of the blues with religious music in the many gospel songs he went on to write and compose, beginning in 1919, when he was 20. A notable early gospel song of his was "If You See My Savior" (1926). He later became an influential gospel choir director, at a Baptist church in Chicago.
        Gospel music comes out of the black church, not all black churches, but primarily the Baptist and the Holiness churches. It is descended from spirituals, and John Lovell Jr., a professor of English at Howard University, said in a 1975 interview that it was "an effort to give the spiritual a modernity in form, content and beat."
        Dr. Lovell said that there was widespread agreement that Mr. Dorsey had been the chief force in gospel's development, adding tabernacle song material and blues touches to the spiritual. Wrote Hundreds of Songs
        Thomas Andrew Dorsey was born in Villa Rica, Ga., had his schooling in Atlanta and went on to study at the Chicago Music College, where he led a band. He served as musical director of the Pilgrim Baptist Church in Chicago from 1932, when he organized a gospel choir there, until the late 1970's. In 1932, he was also a co-founder of the National Convention of Gospel Choirs and Choruses. The Associated Press reported yesterday that he had written more than 1,000 gospel songs, all told, and hundreds of blues songs.
        Mr. Dorsey's first wife died in childbirth in 1931, and their infant child died soon afterward.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Chicago, he is survived by his second wife, the former Kathryn Mosley, to whom he was married in 1941; his son, Mickey, of Detroit; and four grandchildren.
      