
        Raymond Jacobs, who, with his wife, brought a Danish sandal to America, called it the Earth Shoe and created an indelible symbol of the 1970's, died on Wednesday. He was 69.
        Mr. Jacobs's heart failed at a nursing home in Torrington, Conn., after a long illness, his family said.
        He and his wife, Eleanor, founded the Earth Shoe Company in 1970 in Manhattan. The sandal became instantly popular, and the company eventually established 123 outlets to sell the sandal and other footwear using the sunken-heel design, across the United States and in Europe.
        The Earth Shoe is a wooden sandal with a sunken heel intended to simulate the feeling of a bare foot sinking into soft ground. The shoe soon became a counterculture symbol, along with tie-dyed fashions, long hair and beards, the peace emblem, health food and back-to-nature communes.
        The Earth Shoe phenomenon began quite by chance. In 1969, on a trip to Europe, the Jacobses made a side trip to Copenhagen, where they spotted a shop that sold the sandals. They bought two pairs and found that they relieved their tired feet and backaches. Impressed, they asked about selling the shoes in the United States.
        Anna Kalso, the owner, had rejected offers from conventional shoe manufacturers, but she took a liking to the American couple after checking their astrological signs; Mr. Jacobs was a Taurus and Mrs. Jacobs was a Leo. Ms. Kalso found them to be astrologically correct. Auspicious Opening Day
        The Jacobses came home and opened a store on East 17th Street in 1970. Opening day, by chance, turned out to be the first Earth Day, and they dubbed their sandal the Earth Shoe. A rally in nearby Union Square produced a stream of curious customers. Many were unable to pay, so the Jacobses gave the shoes away and said, "Pay later." "They all did and brought back friends to buy more," Mrs. Jacobs said.
        Soon the Earth Shoe was featured in the Whole Earth Catalogue and then in mainstream media. It was advertised in Time and on Johnny Carson's "Tonight" show. A United States factory opened to meet demand.
        The company dissolved in 1977, and the original Earth Shoe became a nostalgia collectible. A pair is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's permanent collection.
        The Earth Shoe came after Mr. Jacobs's first career in photography. He won more than 50 art directors' awards for his advertising work. His art photography is in the Museum of Modern Art's permanent collection and the Family of Man Show. His portraits included Louis Armstrong, Gloria Swanson, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., Salvador Dali and Eartha Kitt.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include two daughters, Susan Jacobs of Manhattan and Laura Jacobs-Pavlick of Litchfield, Conn., and a sister, Sally Eckerle of Delray Beach, Fla.
      