
        Robert Crichton, author of the best sellers "The Great Impostor" and "The Secret of Santa Vittoria," which became popular films, died yesterday at a nursing home in New Rochelle. He was 68.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Crichton (pronounced CRY-ton) relished story-telling as a universal human experience. "You can't go to a dinner party without hearing story after story," he once said. "If you say someone's a bad guy, you'll have to explain what you mean -- and therein hangs the tale."
        His efforts met with commercial success and critical praise, starting with "The Great Impostor" (1959), which was his first book. The outlandish but true story of Ferdinand W. Demara Jr., a man who successfully posed as a Catholic priest and an assistant warden at a maximum-security prison in Texas and even performed operations pretending to be a Canadian Navy surgeon, the book was an immediate hit. The 1961 movie version starred Tony Curtis.
        Mr. Crichton returned to the best-seller lists with his first novel, "The Secret of Santa Vittoria" (1966). The book was based on the actual story of an Italian village that hid its precious hoard of wine from the Nazis, but the rest of the plot and details were largely fiction.
        "The Secret of Santa Vittoria" sold 100,000 copies the first month, rivaling "Valley of the Dolls." Stanley Kramer directed the 1969 movie version, which starred Anthony Quinn. Based Novel on His Ancestors
        Mr. Crichton's next novel, "The Camerons" (1972), was loosely inspired by his Scottish ancestors, who were coal miners. Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times, " 'The Camerons' is a gem among a thousand rhinestones -- an old-fashioned story that makes dead traditions come to life again, an old chestnut that seems warm and savory once more." The book was made into a film in Britain.
        Born in Albuquerque, N.M., Mr. Crichton grew up in Bronxville, N.Y. His father, Kyle, was a writer and editor.
        At Portsmouth Priory School in Rhode Island, he was an all-state athlete in football, basketball and baseball. An Army sergeant in World War II, he fought in the Battle of the Bulge and won a Bronze Star and Purple Heart.
        After graduating from Harvard, he tried his hand at chicken farming till a storm destroyed most of his flock of 5,000. He turned to freelance writing and worked for a time as a writer of bill-collection letters.
        His stories at a cocktail party caught the ear of an editor at Argosy magazine, who hired him. There Mr. Crichton learned of Mr. Demara, and his book career blossomed.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Judith Feiner, a television producer; three daughters, Sarah Crichton of Brooklyn, Jennifer Crichton Emil of Manhattan and Susan Crichton of Mahopac, N.Y.; a son, Rob, of Seattle; a sister, Vivienne Mudd, of St. Louis; a brother, Andrew, of Mamaroneck, and five grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held on Friday at 5:30 P.M. at the Harvard Club, 27 West 44th Street, in Manhattan.
      