
        Herbert Tenzer, a lawyer, philanthropist and former Democratic Congressman from Nassau County, died yesterday at his home in Lawrence, L.I. He was 87.
        Yeshiva University reported his death and said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Tenzer was a trustee and chairman emeritus of Yeshiva.
        Mr. Tenzer served two terms in the House from 1964 to 1968, representing the Fifth Congressional District on the South Shore. He was the first Democrat-Liberal the district had sent to Washington.
        On Capitol Hill, he sponsored bills to create a Federal wetlands on Long Island and to curb jet-aircraft noise. He did not run for re-election in 1968, for personal reasons.  Trustee at Yeshiva
        Mr. Tenzer was a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Tenzer Greenblatt Fallon & Kaplan, which he formed in 1937. From 1940 to 1960 he was chairman of the Barton's Candy Corporation.
        A trustee of Yeshiva University since 1965, he served as board chairman from 1977 until four years ago. The university said he played a pivotal role in the establishment of its Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1955, the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in 1976 and the Sy Syms School of Business in 1987.
        Mr. Tenzer was a founder and past president of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York and took an active part in many other Jewish and civic organizations. After World War II, he headed Rescue Children Inc., which cared for European war orphans.
        Born on the Lower East Side, he graduated from New York University Law School in 1927 and was admitted to practice in New York and before the United States Supreme Court.
        Mr. Tenzer's wife of more than 60 years, the former Florence Novor, died a year ago at the age of 86.
        He is survived by a son, Barry, of Manhattan and Quogue, L.I.; a daughter, Diane Schachter of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I.; two sisters, Eva Pion and Estelle Schiff, both of Rockaway Beach, Queens, and nine grandchildren.
      