
        E. W. Kenworthy, a Washington correspondent for The New York Times who wrote about government and politics with flair and erudition for 20 years, died today at his home here. He was 83.
        He died of complications from prostate cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Kenworthy was 47, an advanced age to begin a new career, when he first arrived at the Washington bureau of The Times in 1957 at the start of Dwight D. Eisenhower's second term. But from the mid-1950's to the mid-1970's he covered Washington with a skill and scholarship that made him a force in daily journalism.
        For example, on the White House beat in 1962, he wrote a news analysis article about the way President John F. Kennedy was twisting the arm of labor unions to support his anti-inflation program. The article began this way: "The man from Boston went up to Atlantic City this week and put on a performance for the United Automobile Workers that was one part Honey Fitz (blarney) and nine parts Ralph Waldo Emerson ('When duty whispers low, thou must')."
        In addition to the White House, over the years Mr. Kenworthy covered the State Department, Congress and politics, and in the last years of his career he reported on the environment. He retired from The Times in 1977. 'Most Literate Reporter'
        Max Frankel, now executive editor of The Times, who was Washington bureau chief in the late 1960's and early 1970's, said Mr. Kenworthy was "simultaneously the most energetic and the most literate reporter in the Washington bureau, and there can be no more potent combination in journalism."
        Edwin Wentworth Kenworthy (he used his initials in his byline and went by the nickname Ned) was born on Sept. 23, 1909, in Attleboro, Mass., and received undergraduate and graduate degrees from Oberlin College in Ohio.
        He taught English at the high school level for several years and at Indiana University for several more. In World War II he worked for the Office of War Information, providing daily cables to overseas embassies about developments in the United States.
        After the war Mr. Kenworthy worked briefly as an editorial writer at The Baltimore Evening Sun and then served as an information officer in the United States Embassy in London and worked for the Reporter magazine. His Proudest Achievement
        In 1949 and 1950 he was executive secretary on President Harry S. Truman's Committee for Equality of Treatment and Opportunity in the Armed Services. The committee's report led to the racial desegregation of the military; Mr. Kenworthy always said he was prouder of the work he did on this issue than of any other professional accomplishment.
        In the summer of 1950, after the committee had disbanded, Mr. Kenworthy joined The Times as a writer for The Week in Review. For seven years before moving to Washington, he wrote articles for the Sunday section on subjects ranging from the Korean War to science teaching.
        In Washington, in what may have been the tour de force of his career, he covered the 1968 insurgent Presidential candidacy of Eugene J. McCarthy, providing unusual insights into this most complicated of politicians.
        Take, for example, this paragraph: "His approach is not political, but moral and religious. The other day, when he offered his platform plank on Vietnam, he said he was not asking for 'repentance' from the Administration and the party. Perhaps not, but he was asking for confession. Confession may be good for the soul, but politicians have never believed it is good for the party."
        Mr. Kenworthy's main beat in the 1970's was the environment, and he wrote about it with the same verve he had applied to other fields. Covering the political battle over whether to allow a power-project dam on the New River in North Carolina and Virginia, he began one article by quoting Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes: "A river is more than an amenity; it is a treasure."
        Mr. Kenworthy's first wife, Jane Elizabeth, died in 1977. They had three children: John, of Washington; Tom, of Vienna, Va., and Jane Schorsch, of Alexandria, Va. Besides his children, Mr. Kenworthy is survived by his second wife, Martha, whom he married in 1988, and seven grandchildren.
      