
        Dr. Judah Zizmor, a physician who helped lay the foundations for high-technology radiology of the head and neck, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83.
        His death came after a lengthy illness, said Dr. Arnold M. Noyek, a former associate who is professor of otolaryngology and radiology at the University of Toronto.
        Dr. Zizmor served as chief of radiology at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital from 1949 to 1978 and continued on the staff until he retired six years ago. He was also a member of the board of surgeon directors of the hospital, which is at East 64th Street.
        His medical contributions were made primarily in the 1960's and 1970's, and were significant steps toward the latest techniques used to diagnose and treat trauma, cancer and other head and neck disorders -- as exemplified by computerized tomography, scanning and magnetic resonance imaging. Expert in His Field
        "He was recognized locally, nationally and internationally for his expertise and as a teacher," Dr. Noyek said. "From a service, scientific and academic perspective, he is considered one of the founding fathers of the specialty of otolaryngologic radiology."
        An author, contributor and editor for many publications and books in his field, Dr. Zizmor was co-author of the "Atlas of Otolaryngologic Radiology," originally published in 1978 by W. B. Saunders. A classic textbook of the time, it pointed the way to the advances made since.
        He was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the University of Wisconsin, where he also received his medical degree in 1934. He specialized in chest disease at Bellevue Hospital before wartime service as a medical officer in the Coast Guard.
        After the war, he worked as a radiologist at the Veterans Hospital in Brooklyn and the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary in downtown Manhattan. His other associations over the years included Mount Sinai Hospital, Beekman Downtown Hospital and Harlem Eye andEar Hospital as well.
        Dr. Zizmor's wife of 48 years, Dr. Naomi Katcher Zizmor, died in 1987. He is survived by a daughter, Ruth Zizmor Bradley of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      