
        Frank Freidel, a noted biographer of President Franklin D. Roosevelt who taught for 26 years at Harvard, died yesterday in the university's Stillman Infirmary in Cambridge, Mass. He was 76 and lived in Belmont, Mass.
        He died of pneumonia and had cancer, his son Paul said.
        Professor Freidel specialized in American political history. A native of Brooklyn who grew up in the Depression, he found much to admire in Roosevelt's life and wrote six volumes about him over a span of four decades. A seventh was under way when he died.
        After teaching at a half dozen colleges and universities, he joined the Harvard faculty in 1955 and was Charles Warren Professor of American History from 1972 to 1981, when he retired from the faculty. He then was named Bullitt Professor of History at the University of Washington in Seattle, where he taught from 1981 until his second retirement in 1986.
        At various times, he was president of the Organization of American Historians, the New England History Teachers' Association and the New England Historical Association. Six Volumes of F.D.R.
        Reviewing his last book, "Franklin D. Roosevelt: A Rendezvous With Destiny" (Little, Brown, 1990) in The New York Times, the critic Herbert Mitgang called it "a solid, scholarly biography" that "touches most of the high points of the Presidency, yet still makes the reader hunger for more details."
        The 710-page book was a traditional biography. It followed four narrowly focused volumes by Professor Freidel that dealt with Roosevelt's life through the beginning of the New Deal, and a fifth, "F.D.R. and the South" (Louisiana State University Press, 1966).
        In "A Rendezvous with Destiny," he summarized the new President's first 100 days in office in 1933 by writing: "It was a time of acute national privation and foreboding that the closing of the banks reinforced. Roosevelt instantly countered the pessimism with a bold, reassuring inaugural address that shifted the national spirit from gloom toward optimism. From an ambiguous figure seeming to possess more charm than backbone, Roosevelt emerged amazingly as a confident, commanding President."
        Each of Professor Freidel's four earlier volumes on Roosevelt was published by Little, Brown. Each was titled "Franklin D. Roosevelt" followed by a subtitle: "The Apprenticeship" (1952), "The Ordeal" (1954), "The Triumph" (1956) and "Launching the New Deal" (1973). Prolific Writer and Editor
        The first volume came out while the author was an assistant professor of history at the University of Illinois, followed by volumes two and three at two-year intervals. The fourth was delayed while additional documents from the period became available and controversy blazed about the New Deal.
        At Professor Freidel's death, he was writing a short biography of Roosevelt for McGraw-Hill, for use by college students.
        His other books included: "Splendid Little War" (Little Brown, 1958), a pictorial history of the Spanish-American War; "America in the Twentieth Century" (Knopf, 1960); and "A History of the United States" in two volumes (Knopf, 1959).
        In all, Professor Freidel was the author of a dozen books, a co-author of four, and the editor or co-editor of six books and three series of books.
        Born in Brooklyn, he grew up in Plattsburg, N.Y., and in various parts of California. He earned a B.A. degree from the University of Southern California in 1937, an M.A. there in 1939 and a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1942.
        His 1938 marriage to Elisabeth Margo ended in in divorce in 1955.
        In addition to his son Paul of Index, Wash., he is survived by his second wife, the former Madeleine Bicskey, to whom he was married in 1956; four daughters, Linda Fried of London, Ontario; Dolly Freidel of Eugene, Ore., Christine Freidel of Arlington, Va., Irene Freidel of Acton, Mass.; two other sons, David of Dallas, and Chuck of San Bernardino, Calif.; his mother, Edith M. Friedel of Orange, Calif.; a brother, Richard of South Gate, Calif.; and three sisters, Shirley Morgan and Doris Sawyer, both of Orange, Calif., and Audrey Badgett of Nevada; and eight grandchildren.
      