
        Dr. Stuart W. Cook, a social psychologist who studied the impact of racial and religious prejudice on society, died in his sleep at home in Boulder, Colo., on Thursday. Dr. Cook was 79 years old.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Stephen H. Cook. Mr. Cook said his father suffered a stroke in early January.
        Dr. Cook was one of the social psychologists, with Isidor Chenin and Kenneth Clark, whose study on the effects of segregation on black children was used to support the appellants' case in Brown v. The Board of Education, the 1954 landmark Supreme Court desegregation case. He was also a research adviser from 1955 to 1958 on the Federal Government's Commission on Race and Housing. In 1956 Dr. Cook was on a panel of social scientists who asserted their studies found no evidence to support the theory that black children were intellectually inferior to white children.
        Born in Richmond on April 17, 1913, Dr. Cook received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Virginia and a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Minnesota in 1938. After serving during World War II as a captain in the Army Air Force, Dr. Cook was hired by the American Jewish Congress as director of research for the organization's Commission on Human Relations. N.Y.U. Psychology Head
        In 1949 Dr. Cook was among the founders of the Center for the Research for Human Relations at New York University. In 1950 he became the head of N.Y.U.'s psychology department.
        In 1963 he was named chairman of the psychology department at the University of Colorado, where he also served as director of the university's Institute of Behavioral Science from 1968 to 1981. He retired from the University of Colorado in 1980.
        Along with Marie Jahoda and Morton Deutsch, Dr. Cook wrote "Research Methods in Social Relations," a textbook published by Dryden Press of New York in 1951 and which was revised and updated in 1959 (Holt) and 1976 (Holt, Rinehart & Winston). Among Dr. Cook's awards were the 1986 gold medal award from the American Psychology Foundation for distinguished contributions by a psychologist in the public interest.
        In addition to his son, Stephen, who lives in Boulder, Dr. Cook is survived by his wife, Annabelle; another son, Timothy, of Richmond; a daughter, Joanna Chinen of Kawasaki, Japan; a sister, Margaret Cook of Richmond, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 30, 1993, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Stuart W. Cook, a social psychologist who studied the impact of racial and religious prejudice, referred incorrectly to a colleague of his. The colleague is Isidor Chein.
      