
        Edwin H. Wilson, a founder of the modern humanist movement and a retired Unitarian Universalist minister, died Friday at Veterans Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 94 and lived in Salt Lake City.
        He died of cancer, said Florien Wine riter, president of Humanists of Utah, a group founded by Dr. Wilson two years ago.
        Dr. Wilson was an signer of the 1933 Humanist Manifesto, which set forth the tenets of humanism, a philosophy that holds that human beings determine the moral principles governing their lives.
        He was also a primary author of the Humanist Manifesto II of 1973, a document criticizing religious dogmatism. The manifesto called for more participatory democracy, universal education and a guaranteed annual income. It also affirmed the right of women to choose abortion and the right to birth control, euthanasia, divorce and privacy, and declared that nationalism and war were obsolete. Significant Agreement
        In a letter to The New York Times in September 1973, shortly after the document was published, he wrote, "What is significant about Humanist Manifesto II is that 120 persons of varying philosophic, psychological and religious orientations have arrived ethically at common goals and principles."
        He was among the founders of the American Humanist Association in 1941, along with the philosopher John Dewey. At his death Dr. Wilson was a board member and executive director emeritus of the association, which is based in Amherst, N.Y. Dr. Wilson also was the first editor of the association's bimonthly magazine, The Humanist.
        In 1964 in Yellow Springs, Ohio, he founded the Fellowship of Religious Humanists, which has since moved to Chicago. The fellowship, an independent affiliate of the Unitarian Universalist Association, publishes a quarterly magazine, Religious Humanism.
        Dr. Wilson's wife, the former Janet Jenkins, died in 1986. He is survived by two sons, John Wilson of Houston and Dana Wilson of Salt Lake City, and three grandchildren.
      