
        Luis Kutner, a human rights lawyer who practiced in Chicago for more than six decades, died Monday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago. A lifelong resident of the city, he was 84 years old.
        The cause was heart failure, his office said.
        Mr. Kutner was co-founder with Peter Benenson of Amnesty International in London. He campaigned for a worldwide habeas corpus code so that any arrested person would be properly charged and, at the court's discretion, released on bail.
        In widely reported cases, he helped win the release of the poet Ezra Pound from a mental ward after World War II and, at the behest of Pope Pius XII, of Jozsef Cardinal Mindszenty, who was imprisoned in Hungary on treason charges. Mr. Kutner negotiated improved prison conditions for the Cardinal and eventually eased his departure from house arrest at the American Embassy in Budapest. The 'Living Will' Concept
        The plight of a friend dying a slow, painful death after a violent robbery drove Mr. Kutner to write his first "living will" nearly 60 years ago. The thought behind the document was to allow patients to specify at what stage life-sustaining systems should be shut off when conditions become hopeless.
        With support from the New York-based Society for the Right to Die, such wills are now legally enforceable in many states, and Mr. Kutner was credited with the concept.
        Born in Chicago to Russian-Jewish immigrant parents, Luis Kutner entered the University of Chicago at the age of 15 and established himself as a poet, author and musician. While at the university's law school he was a clerk for Clarence Darrow. He also came to the attention of Roscoe Pound, Harvard University's legal scholar, before finishing law school at 21.
        He himself gained national recognition in 1949 when he obtained freedom for a black mechanic from Waukegan, Ill., who had served nearly 26 years of a life term in the rape of an itinerant who later died in a mental hospital. A Federal judge described as "a sham" the defendant's 1924 trial in which a vengeful prosecutor withheld vital evidence, notably a doctor's evidence that the woman had not been raped.
        Mr. Kutner is survived by his wife of 59 years, Rose; a son, Tony, of San Francisco, and a sister, Anne Koven of Miami.
      