
        Thomas L. Jordan, who was once considered the leading individual cotton trader in the world, died Thursday at his home in the Garden District here. He was 90.
        His family said he had died of complications after hip replacement surgery.
        In October 1946, his speculations led to a worldwide crash in the commodities markets, after he guessed wrong about the direction of prices and started to unload his huge holdings. The panic temporarily closed the New York, Chicago and New Orleans Cotton Exchanges.
        A newspaper at the time described Mr. Jordan, who was known as Duke, as an "old-time Wall Street plunger."
        In 1941, when cotton was selling for 10 cents a pound, he started trading on a stake of $2,000, most of which he had won at a suburban gambling house.
        With World War II raging, prices were extremely volatile and in a few months Mr. Jordan ran this shoestring up to $1 million. He told reporters it was a "cinch" to make money on cotton futures. On the exchange, where he always seemed to win, he became known as the man with ice water in his veins.
        The crash came after cotton prices had jumped up to 39 cents a pound. Mr. Jordan bet they would continue rising sharply, but they began to sink on Oct. 16 and then plunged after he began liquidating his holdings. His losses were estimated to be $5 million.
        "Today's traders may trade bigger, but in his day he was as big as they come," Herman S. Kohlmeyer Jr., a New Orleans commodities broker and longtime friend, said after Mr. Jordan's death.
        Mr. Jordan was born in Virginia, attended the College of William and Mary, where he earned letters in baseball and football, and worked in Boston, New York and Atlanta before coming to New Orleans in 1932.
        In the 1950's his company, Thomas Jordan Inc., built and leased a large fleet of steel deck barges. With his brother, Harry, in 1954 he founded American Tidelands Inc.
        He is survived by two sons, Thomas Jr. of Covington, La., and Ingersoll of New Orleans; two daughters, Cornelia Howard Jordan and Priscilla J. Claverie of New Orleans; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      