
        Speakers from the many walks of life touched by Reginald Francis Lewis, who died last Tuesday at 50, gathered yesterday to honor the Wall Street lawyer and financier. Mr. Lewis, a resident of New York City and Paris, died of a cerebral hemorrhage related to cancer.
        A service was held at the Riverside Church on Riverside Drive in Manhattan in an atmosphere of warmth, interspersed with touches of gentle humor. Those addressing the audience of several hundred included members of Mr. Lewis's immediate family and notables whose paths had crossed with his, including Mayor David N. Dinkins; James W. Kinnear, the president of Texaco as a fellow chief executive officer; Percy E. Sutton, the Harlem entrepreneur and former Manhattan borough president; Robert C. Clark, the dean of Harvard Law School, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
        Musical interludes featured the Harlem Boys Choir, the soprano Kathleen Battle, with "Amazing Grace," and Lea Salonga, the "Miss Saigon" star, performing "The Quest" ("The Impossible Dream"). Also presented was a 10-minute videotaped biography in which Mr. Lewis was heard with his message to others willing to defy and seeking to achieve in life: "Keep going on, no matter what!" His admonition was echoed by yesterday's speakers.
        Tribute was paid to the fact that Mr. Lewis shared his wealth and experience so that others may follow in his footsteps. Mr. Lewis, one of the country's richest businessmen, capped his career as a takeover dealer with the $1 billion acquisition in 1987 of the Beatrice Companies, a food concern. 'Warm and Generous'
        The move created Mr. Lewis's own company, TLC Beatrice International -- with TLC standing for The Lewis Company. It became the largest enterprise in the country to be run by a black person, and Mr. Lewis's personal assets were estimated at $400 million by Forbes magazine.
        "Reginald Lewis accomplished more in half a century than most of us could ever deem imaginable," Mayor Dinkins told the audience. "And his brilliant career was matched always by a warm and generous heart."
        Mr. Dinkins said that for a brief period Mr. Lewis had considered joining him in a law partnership, "but his brilliant judgment again prevailed, and he declined." Instead, Mr. Lewis founded his own law firm to specialize in venture capital projects and eventually pursued his career in finance.
        His life proved, especially to blacks, that dreams of success need not be left to dry up, Mr. Dinkins declared. "It is said that 'service to others is the rent we pay for space on earth,' " he added. "Reg Lewis departed us paid in full."
        In recent years, Mr. Lewis became deeply involved in philanthropy and donated millions each year to charities, including homeless shelters, neighborhood churches and scholarships. Last year, he contributed $3 million to Harvard Law School, from which he graduated in 1968. The gift made him the school's largest individual donor ever.
        Dean Clark said Mr. Lewis, in frequent contacts with a new generation of students, shared "practical wisdom with them that he was uniquely qualified to provide." His advice, the dean said, was to "keep in touch with the real world."
        "He recognized the importance of education in his own life, and his response was noble," Dean Clark said.
        Mr. Jackson contrasted Mr. Lewis's conduct with others who grow wealthy and morally corrupt, developing "amnesia" about their roots. "He knew he was stronger because he came from a zero base," he said.
      