
        Bert Andrews, a performing-arts photographer whose pioneering work chronicled the history of the black theater since the 1950's, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 63.
        He died of stomach cancer, said Ida Lewis, a friend.
        A collection of 3,000 of Mr. Andrews's photographs at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Manhattan is considered to be the largest visual documentation of the contemporary black theater movement, said Dr. Howard Dodson, chief of the center.
        "More than any single individual, he preserved the record of this aspect of black history and culture," Mr. Dodson said.
        "He was the first full-time black photographer who specialized in taking pictures of theater people," said Howard Atlee, a theatrical press agent who began working in Manhattan in 1953.
        Mr. Andrews's subjects included Phylicia Rashad, Adolph Caesar, Godfrey Cambridge, Louis Gossett Jr., Robert Hooks, Morgan Freeman, James Earl Jones, Theresa Merritt, Esther Rolle, Diana Sands, Raymond St. Jacques, Louise Stubbs, Cicely Tyson, Denzel Washington and Billy Dee Williams.
        Among the production companies whose plays he photographed were the Negro Ensemble Company, the New Federal Theater and the Frank Silvera Writers' Workshop.  Many Photos Burned
        Among the shows he photographed were "A Soldier's Play," "Black Nativity," "Bubbling Brown Sugar," "Eubie," "Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death," "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom," "Moon on a Rainbow Shawl," "The Blacks" and "The Blood Knot." He was also a photographer for Actors' Equity Association and in recent years documented the events at the Schomburg Center.
        A fire in Mr. Andrews's Manhattan studio on Jan. 29, 1985, destroyed more than 40,000 prints and 100,000 negatives from 1,000 shows he had documented. For the next three years, Mr. Andrews set about reconstructing part of the collection from prints and negatives in the possession of the artists and theatrical companies he photographed. That collection is at the Schomburg Center.
        Mr. Andrews was born on March 21, 1929, in Chicago and grew up in Harlem. Originally a songwriter, singer and dancer, he began studying photography while in the Army in the early 1950's. Later he was an apprentice with Chuck Stewart, one of the best-known photographers of jazz musicians.
        Mr. Andrews's work was collected in a book, "In the Shadow of the Great White Way: Images from the Black Theater" (1990). The book included reminiscences by Mr. Andrews and Paul Carter Harrison, the playwright, with an introduction by Ms. Tyson.
        There are no survivors.
      