
        Maj. Gen. George J. Keegan Jr., a former Air Force intelligence chief who often annoyed the Pentagon with warnings about Soviet military preparations, died on Wednesday at Bethesda Naval Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Oxon Hill, Md.
        His family said he suffered a stroke in January.
        General Keegan, a much-decorated former combat pilot, retired in 1977 after five years as assistant Chief of Staff for intelligence at Air Force headquarters in the Pentagon. He then disclosed possibilities based on data collected by his staff that ran counter to interpretations held by his civilian and military superiors and by the Central Intelligence Agency.
        Describing himself as the eye of controversy in Washington, he contested official estimates of Soviet might and intentions for 22 years, saying the United States was underestimating the Russians. He did so chiefly using his access to photographic intelligence data. Warnings About Russians
        He asserted that the Soviet Union was building a civil-defense system that would insure a reasonable rate of survival from a nuclear exchange. He also believed that the Russians were close to deploying futuristic charged particle-beam weapons.
        General Keegan's views found a broader outlet in a 1987 book by William E. Burrows, "Deep Black: Space Espionage and National Security" (Random House), a history of spy satellites.
        Born in Houlton, Me., he graduated from Harvard University with the delayed class of 1944 and earned a master's degree in international affairs at George Washington University.
        He was commissioned during World War II and flew 56 combat missions in the Pacific, where he also served as a combat-intelligence officer after the war. He then held a number of intelligence positions.
        Following his graduation from the National War College in Washington, he was assigned to duty at the Pentagon and, in the late 1960's, served in Vietnam. He started in his Pentagon job in 1972.
        His decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with three oak-leaf clusters and the Air Medal with two clusters.
        General Keegan is survived by his mother, Beatrice Bailey of New Brunswick, Canada; two daughters, Constance K. Owen of Boulder, Colo., and Elizabeth A. C. Chaplin of Mechanicsville, Md.; a son, George J., 3d of Occoquan, Va.; a brother, Thomas, of Rockport, Mass., and two grandsons.
      