
        Tadao Kashio, who led the expansion of the Casio Computer Company as it popularized the pocket calculator and developed other major consumer electronic products, died on Thursday at a hospital in Tokyo. He was 75 and lived in Tokyo.
        The cause of death was respiratory failure, company officials said.
        In 1946, amid Japan's devastation from World War II, Casio started out as a small manufacturer of simple electrical relays. Mr. Kashio founded the company, orginally called Kashio Seisakujo, with his father, Shigeru, and was joined by three younger brothers, Kazuo, Toshio and Yukio. Succeeding his father as president, Mr. Kashio headed Casio from 1960 until his retirement in 1988.
        Under his leadership, Casio developed an internationally popular array of digital watches, cash registers, stereos, liquid crystal display pocket televisions and other devices for business and private use.  Grew to $2 Billion Business
        The company grew into a $2 billion-dollar global operation with thousands of employees.
        Mr. Kashio made important product contributions. With his background as an engineer and inventor, coupled with his interest in music, he conceived and directed the development of electronic music synthesizers. The compact keyboard devices enable players and composers to reproduce notes in a variety of musical instrument sounds, from piano to violin, with a wide choice of background rhythms, from rock to waltzes.
        Business analysts have praised Casio for innovative management and aggressive marketing and pricing. Casio invests at least 5 percent of its income in research and development and constantly introduces new products and models throughout the year. The company accounts for nearly a third of the world's calculator market and more than two-thirds of digital watch sales.
        Mr. Kashio was born in Nangoku City and educated at Waseda Workers School.
        He was married for 50 years to the former Shige Noguchi, and they had three daughters and a son. Besides his wife and children, survivors include his three brothers.
      