
        Henry Giniger, a longtime correspondent for The New York Times who spent two decades chronicling the rise of postwar France before moving on to report from dozens of other countries, died yesterday at a hospital in Paris. He was 71 and lived in Boulogne, a suburb of Paris.
        He had lung cancer, said his daughter, Marianne Moncrief of Westfield, N.J.
        Mr. Giniger joined the Paris bureau of The Times in 1946 and soon became a mainstay of the paper's European coverage. Fluent in French, Spanish and Portuguese, he specialized in articles that described the political scene on the Continent as its nascent governments struggled to rebuild.
        He was regarded as a correspondent who thrived on breaking news events and distinguished himself in his reporting from Budapest during the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and from Algeria during the revolution there in the early 1960's. Won Press Club Award
        In 1965 he moved to Mexico City, from which he covered Latin America, winning an Overseas Press Club Award in 1969 for the best reporting from that region.
        He then returned to Paris and in 1972 took over the Madrid bureau, covering the Portuguese revolution, the death of Franco and Spain's return to democracy. He later was head of the newspaper's bureaus in Montreal and Ottawa. In 1982 he moved to New York to work as an editor on the Week in Review section. He retired in 1987.
        Mr. Giniger was born on Jan. 15, 1922, in Brooklyn and attended City College before receiving a master's degree in journalism at Columbia University.
        During World War II he served in the Marines as a combat correspondent, writing for The Stars and Stripes newspaper. Slight of build, he once told his family that he had landed on the beach at Iwo Jima with a rifle over one shoulder and a portable typewriter over the other.
        Mr. Giniger loved Europe. He immersed himself in the Continent's culture and married a French woman. Upon his final return to Paris in 1987, he wrote an article for the Op-Ed page of The Times that described his surprise at the American influence in the country. 'No Need to Feel Homesick'
        "After jeans and rock, American-style television is taking over the French public," he wrote. "An American who moved from New York City to Paris no longer needs to feel homesick."
        He had a talent for spinning stories. He delighted in opening a bottle of French wine, lighting a pungent Gauloise cigarette and, with a roguish look in his eyes, launching into a tale about his travels around the world.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Janine; a stepdaughter, Jany Plasse of Paris; a sister, Selma Hammer of Larchmont, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      