
        Izaak Maurits Kolthoff, a pioneer in analytical chemistry whose research led to the improvement of synthetic rubber during World War II, died last Thursday at Bethesda Lutheran Hospital and Rehabilitation Center in St. Paul. He was 99 and lived in St. Paul.
        The cause of death was kidney failure, said his trustee, Sidney Barrows.
        Dr. Kolthoff was best known for his work on the emulsion polymerization process, the crucial step in making synthetic rubber for use in the military industry during the war, when the supplies of natural rubber had been cut off. His "cold process" rubber project was praised as a contribution to the Allied war effort.
        For 35 years, Dr. Kolthoff was professor and chief of the Division of Analytical Chemistry at the University of Minnesota. He retired in 1962, but as professor emeritus, he continued to work with post-doctoral students until well into his 90's. Helped German Scientists
        Politically active, he helped German scientists persecuted by Hitler find jobs at the University of Minnesota. He also campaigned against Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's investigations of suspected Communists and led protests against nuclear weapons.
        He was born in Almelo, the Netherlands, and graduated from the University of Utrecht, which awarded him a doctoral degree in chemistry in 1918. He served as Conservator of the Pharmaceutical Institute at the University of Utrecht and as a teacher-investigator until 1927, when he joined the University of Minnesota faculty.
        He was the author of nine scientific books and some 1,000 research papers. He co-wrote with E. B. Sandell the Textbook of Quantitative Inorganic Analysis (Macmillan, 1936), which became a standard text on the subject.
        Dr. Kolthoff was recognized for his work in modern analytical chemistry by the American Chemical Society, which accorded him one of its highest honors, the William H. Nichols Medal, in 1949. He was knighted in the Netherlands and received many other honors including, the Charles Medal of the Charles University in Prague and the Fisher Award of the American Chemical Society.
        He is survived by a niece, Robina Buchbinder of Haifa, Israel, and a nephew, Benedictus Kolthoff of Apeldoorn, the Netherlands.
      