
        Dr. Solomon J. Buchsbaum, a physicist and top official at Bell Laboratories who served as a science adviser to United States Presidents for the last 22 years, died on Monday at a hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 63 and lived in Westfield, N.J.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, his family said.
        Dr. Buchsbaum was the chairman of the White House Science Council under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush and was chairman of the Energy Research Advisory Board under President Jimmy Carter. He was also on President Richard M. Nixon's Science Advisory Committee and President Gerald Ford's Committee on Science and Technology.
        He also served as a consultant to nuclear power, science and military agencies. He was chairman of the Defense Science Board from 1972 to 1977 and an adviser on the Strategic Defense Initiative, known as the Star Wars system, and on the deployment of MX missiles.
        In his 45 years at Bell, Dr. Buchsbaum rose to several high-ranking posts. Since 1979 he was the senior vice president in charge of technology systems.
        He supervised projects dealing with fiber-optic communications, digital signal processing, advanced satellites, computers, software, military systems and high-definition television.
        Dr. Buchsbaum began at Bell in 1958 as a researcher on gaseous and solid plasmas. He wrote 50 published articles on his specialty and was awarded eight patents. He was the associate editor of three physics journals and chairman of the plasma division of the American Physical Society.
        He served on boards at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, the Rand Corporation, Draper Laboratory and the Argonne and Sandia National Laboratories.
        His honors included defense and energy agency medals, the National Medal of Science from President Reagan and awards from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering and the National Academy of Engineering.
        Dr. Buchsbaum was born in Poland. His parents died in the Holocaust, but he and his sister avoided capture.
        As a teen-ager he moved to Canada. Originally he planned to be an accountant, but his mastery of physics won him a scholarship in that field. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at McGill University and his doctorate at M.I.T.
        Surviving are his wife of 37 years, the former Phyllis Isenman; a daughter, Rachel J., of Winchester, Mass.; two sons, David J., of Atlanta and Adam L., of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Dorothy Steinbach of Glen Rock, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      