
        Jerome S. Hardy, a salesman and promoter of commodities ranging from securities to books and magazines, died Thursday at the Cambridge Manor nursing home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 74.
        He died from the complications of Alzheimer's disease, said a son, Douglas Hardy.
        During his career Mr. Hardy was the vice president of advertising for Doubleday & Company, the first publisher of Time-Life Books, publisher of Life magazine and the president of the Dreyfus Corporation, which managed a group of mutual funds.
        He graduated from the University of Maryland, served in the Army Air Force during World War II and in 1946 began a career in publishing as a blurb writer for book covers for Doubleday, for which he worked for 13 years in promotion and trade advertising. Created Time-Life Books
        In 1959 Time Inc. hired Mr. Hardy to create a book division, and in five years Time-Life Books emerged as one of the nation's major book publishers with hundreds of millions of dollars in sales. In 1964 Mr. Hardy, then a vice president of Time Inc., became publisher of Life, serving six years.
        Mr. Hardy joined the Dreyfus Corporation as executive vice president in 1970, becoming president of the mutual fund group the following year. Dreyfus and its subsidiaries, like the Dreyfus Liquid Assets Fund, became a major force in Wall Street securities sales. A decade later he founded Juniper Enterprises, a consulting firm in direct marketing and publishing.
        Mr. Hardy was a director of many commercial and philanthropic groups, including the Encyclopedia Britannica, Doyle Dane Bernbach Advertising, Reeves Communications, the China Fund, Harper's magazine, and Rolling Stone. Enjoyed Playing Golf
        An avid golfer, Mr. Hardy's love for the sport started as a boy when he became a caddy at the American Legion course in Manhattan, Kan., his hometown. His father died when the boy was 4. He eventually was a member of eight golf clubs, as well as the University Club, the Sky Club and the Book Table.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty St. Claire, whom he met in college; a daughter, Martha Baskett of Lake Village, Ark.; four sons, James, of New Canaan, Conn., Douglas, of Fairfield, Conn., Gordon, of West Medford, Mass., and Quentin, of Tokyo; his mother, Irene Johnson Hardy of New Canaan; a brother, Neal, of Orange City, Fla.; a sister, Pauline, of Weston, Conn., and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Friday at the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan.
      