
        John Caldwell, the curator of paintings and sculpture at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and a well-known advocate of contemporary art, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach, where he had a vacation home. He was 51 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Chelsea Brown, the director of public relations and marketing at the museum.
        Mr. Caldwell was born in Nashville on Nov. 16, 1941, the only child of Nathan Green Caldwell and Camilla Johnston Caldwell. His father was a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who wrote for The Tennessean.
        Mr. Caldwell earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1963 and a master's degree in art history from Hunter College in 1973. For the next three years, he pursued graduate studies in 18th- and 19th-century American art history at Yale University. In 1975, he went to the Metropolitan Museum of Art as an Andrew W. Mellon Fellow, and in 1977 he was named assistant curator of American art. Revived Pittsburgh International
        Between 1980 and 1984, Mr. Caldwell contributed art criticism to the suburban weekly sections of The New York Times for Westchester, New Jersey and Connecticut, and in this period he became increasingly interested in contemporary art. In 1984 he was hired by John R. Lane, the director of the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, as adjunct curator of contemporary art; he became curator of contemporary art in 1985. Working with Mr. Lane, he organized the 1985 Carnegie International, a show that was widely seen as reviving interest in that 90-year-old invitational exhibition. While at the Carnegie, Mr. Caldwell organized exhibitions of the work of contemporary artists like Richard Deacon, Sean Scully and Joan Witek. He also acquired paintings by Anselm Kiefer and Sigmar Polke that were among the first major works by these well-known German artists to enter American museum collections.
        Mr. Lane, who became director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 1987, named Mr. Caldwell curator of painting and sculpture in 1989. The program that Mr. Caldwell instigated for San Francisco was an astute mixture of underappreciated and high-profile artists. In the last year, for example, he assembled a retrospective of the works of Luciano Fabro, an Italian Arte Povera artist whok is not well known in this country, and a survey of the work of the American artist Jeff Koons. He also organized a widely acclaimed retrospective of Mr. Polke's work that toured the United States in 1990 and organized an exhibition of younger artists including Sherrie Levine, Martin Kippenberger, Christopher Wool and Matthew Barney.
        Although Mr. Caldwell was sometimes criticized for his emphasis on European and New York art, he and Mr. Lane were often credited with bringing new life and international visibility to the museum, which is constructing a new building designed by Mario Botta in downtown San Francisco. Mr. Caldwell contributed to the design of the galleries in this building, which is to open in January 1995, and was working on plans for the inaugural exhibition and the installation of the permanent collection.
      