
        Benjamin Huger Read, founding director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and first president of the German Marshall Fund, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 67.
        He died from complications from liver disease, his family said.
        At his death Mr. Read was president of Ecofund '92, an environmental group that was founded in connection with the Earth Summit conference last year in Rio de Janeiro. He had just returned from Costa Rica and a meeting with the Earth Council Foundation, which was established to monitor the results of the Rio de Janeiro conference.
        He earlier served in the State Department, first in the Johnson Administration and then in the Carter Administration.
        Mr. Read grew up in Conshohocken, Pa., and graduated from Williams College and the University of Pennsylvania Law School. In World War II he was a sergeant with the Marine Corps in Guam and China. Aide to Dean Rusk
        He joined a law firm in Philadelphia and was a public defender there before moving to Washington in 1958. For the next five years he was a legislative aide to Senator Joseph Clark, a Pennsylvania Democrat.
        From 1963 to 1969 Mr. Read served as executive secretary of the Secretary of State, Dean Rusk, and worked with Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, the Democratic Presidential nominee, in the 1968 campaign.
        In 1969, Mr. Read was named director of the Wilson center, financed by Congress and private sources to provide an opportunity for intellectuals and public figures to discuss international affairs.
        In 1972, Willy Brandt, then Chancellor of West Germany, announced the endowment of the German Marshall Fund, and Mr. Read resigned from the Wilson center to become its founding president. The fund, based in Washington, was intended to study issues confronting industrialized nations.
        In the Carter Administration he was Under Secretary of State for Management and part of the State Department team that sought to free the American hostages held in Iran from November 1979 to January 1981.
        Mr. Read, who lived in Washington, is survived by his wife of 42 years, the former Anne Lowell Keezer; two sons, Benjamin H. Read Jr. of Jackson, Wyo., and Dexter K. Read of Washington; a daughter, Mary B. Read of Ferney-Voltaire, France, and three sisters, Rachel Hopkinson of Conshohocken, Anne Brown of Edmonds, Wash., and Mary Read of Washington.
      