
        L. Arthur Larson, a top aide to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and chief theoretician for moderate Republicanism in that era, died on Saturday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 82.
        The presumed cause was heart failure, his family said.
        In the 1950's Mr. Larson, a law professor, served in three posts in the Eisenhower Administration. He was called its principal "egghead" for his books expounding New Republicanism.
        The President read a Larson book, "A Republican Looks at his Party" (Harper, 1956), while recovering from an operation and summoned Mr. Larson for private talks. Eisenhower said the book reflected his own philosophy on the political path the party should take to recreate itself in the post-New-Deal era. 'The Authentic Center'
        Mr. Larson urged Republicans to aim for the middle ground, "the authentic American center." He wrote: "The man who holds the center holds a position of almost unbeatable strength."
        In shedding extreme conservatism, Republicans should accept a modified government role in modern industrial society, he said, and as a minority party, it should expand by appealing to urban voters, liberals, young people and minorities.
        When the party rejected such advice in 1964 by nominating Barry Goldwater for President, Mr. Larson publicly campaigned for the Democratic incumbent, Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Mr. Larson enlarged his thesis for the Republican Party in "What We Are For" (Harper, 1959). A cover article in The New York Times Book Review by Senator John F. Kennedy praised much of the book's analysis, saying it "poses the central issues of American political life." But he faulted its proposals as "very vague." 'Skyscrapers and Bathtubs'
        First appointed Under Secretary of the Labor Department in 1954, Mr. Larson later became an executive assistant to Eisenhower in charge of his speeches, then director of the United States Information Agency.
        "I don't believe we should boast about our skyscrapers and bathtubs," he said in his last post. "We aren't going to win friends by making people envy us. But if we can tell them something about us that will help them, then we are doing the job."
        In 1968, he wrote "Eisenhower: The President Nobody Knew" (Scribner). It made news with the assertion that Eisenhower had told Mr. Larson that he disagreed with the Supreme Court's school-desegregation ruling. By then Eisenhower's own memoirs contended that he supported the decision from the outset.
        Foreign affairs was another focus for Mr. Larson. He was a consultant to President Johnson, the State Department and the United Nations. He also championed peace efforts.  Workers' Compensation Expert
        As a legal scholar, Mr. Larson was the nation's leading authority on workers'-compensation law. His best-known work is the 11-volume "Workmen's Compensation," which remains the standard reference in that field.
        After practicing law for four years in Milwaukee, he taught at several law schools. On leaving the Government in 1958, he taught law at Duke University.  He continued writing after retiring.
        Mr. Larson, a judge's son, was born in Sioux Falls, S.D. He graduated from Augustana College, won a Rhodes scholarship and earned a degree in jurisprudence at Oxford.
        He sang and played the harpsichord, organ, classical guitar and a 14-string viola d'amore, an instrument he said he favored "because nobody knows how it's supposed to sound anyway."
        His survivors include a son, Lex of Durham; a daughter, Anna Barbara Larson of Takoma Park, Md.; a brother, Richard of Madison, Wis.; a sister, Marguerite Hogue of Seattle, and six grandsons.
        He was married for 55 years to the former Florence Faye Newcomb, who died recently. He met her in a high school debate on independence for the Philippines, which her team won.
      