
        Rabbi Chaim Mordechai Aizik Hodakov, the chief of staff for the spiritual leader of the Lubavitcher movement, died on Friday at Brookdale Hospital and Medical Center in the East New York section of Brooklyn. He was 91.
        He died after a brief illness, said officials at the Hasidic group's headquarters in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
        Rabbi Hodakov was a highly regarded leader within the movement who held several other posts, among them director of the group's educational, publishing and social service branches.
        He was named to those posts in the early 1940's by the group's previous leader, Rabbi Joseph I. Schneersohn.
        He was born in the town of Beshenkovichi in Belarus in 1902 and moved to Riga, Latvia, with his parents two years later. Appointed Chief of Staff
        In 1950, Rabbi Menachem M. Schneerson became the spiritual leader of the movement and appointed Rabbi Hodakov as his chief of staff. He was also named as chairman of Agudas Chassidei Chabad, the group that oversees Lubavitcher organizations throughout the world.
        Rabbi Hodakov was instrumental in winning acceptance for Jewish day schools, where children are taught secular subjects and receive comprehensive religious training as well. When Rabbi Hodakov arrived in the United States in 1940, there were only a handful of these schools in the country. Under the direction of Rabbi Schneersohn, he set out to establish an American network of Jewish day schools.
        The efforts of the two men initially met with significant resistance from many established Jewish organizations because of a fear that these schools would isolate the Jewish community, said Rabbi Yehuda Krinsky, a spokesman for the Lubavitcher movement. As time passed, the fears were dispelled and the schools gained wide acceptance. Today, there are hundreds of Jewish day schools throughout the United States, Rabbi Krinsky said.
        Rabbi Hodakov is survived by his wife, Ethel Tzerna; a son, Sholom Yisroel, and a daughter, Chaya Rivkah Kramer, all of Crown Heights.
      