
        Everett F. Drumright, who retired as United States Ambassador to Taiwan in 1962 after 32 years in the Foreign Service, died on Saturday at Pomerado Hospital in Poway, Calif. He was 86 and had lived in Poway since retiring.
        He had been ill for a brief time, his family said.
        During his four years in Taiwan, Ambassador Drumright was the official channel between Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and Gen. Chiang Kai-shek during the crisis over Quemoy and Matsu, two small islands off the coast of China. Held by the Nationalists in Taipei, the islands were the target of takeover attempts and an intense propaganda campaign by the Government in Beijing.
        The confrontation also came at a time of loud contention at the United Nations over who should fill the permanent Chinese seat on the Security Council, and Ambassador Drumright was in the thick of the battle to sustain the Nationalists' claim.
        Mr. Drumright, who was fluent in Chinese, continued to lecture extensively at colleges and universities after leaving the State Department. He also remained active in the China Foundation of Taipei, an educational institution fostering Chinese-American understanding.
        A tall, solidly built native of Oklahoma, Mr. Drumright graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1929. He started his diplomatic career as a vice-consul in Juarez, Mexico, the next year.
        His postings thereafter were chiefly as a language officer, moving successively from Hankow to Beijing to Shanghai, Shantou, Nanjing and Chongqing. Leaving China for a time, he held assignments in London and Tokyo. The State Department called him to Washington in 1945 to become chief of the Division of Chinese Affairs.
        Three years later, he was back overseas, with posts in Seoul, New Delhi and Bombay. He was named Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs in 1953. After that he received the personal rank of Minister as Consul General in Hong Kong and Macao. He was sent to Taiwan in 1958.
        He retired with 211 other career diplomats, an unusually large exodus, when the State Department offered a special 12 percent bonus to officers leaving by mid-1962.
        Mr. Drumright is survived by his wife of 38 years, Florence Teets Drumright, a travel and aviation writer; and a brother, Aaron, of Ottawa, Kan.
      