
        Jim Valvano, the fast-talking, wisecracking New York-bred basketball coach who led North Carolina State to its Cinderella 1983 national championship, died yesterday at Duke University Medical Center after a yearlong battle with cancer. He was 47.
        Valvano, who had been a basketball commentator since he left North Carolina State amid controversy in 1990, had been admitted to the hospital, in Durham, N.C., at the end of March.
        During the last months of his life, Valvano, whose family was at his side at the end, had grown close to the Duke basketball coach, Mike Krzyzewski, who issued a statement yesterday.
        "Jim was a dreamer, motivator and a fighter," he said. "He did all those things to the last day." An Unexpected Presence
        It was in the 1950's that Frank McGuire established the pipeline that took crack New York City players to the Carolinas. But for all their resulting familiarity with New York coaches and New York ways, the people and fans of North Carolina were simply not prepared for what hit them -- and their ears -- when Valvano took over as head coach at North Carolina State in 1980.
        Valvano, a Queens native who had coached Iona to a 94-47 record over the previous five seasons, was seen and heard as the quintessential Noo Yawker.
        Well before the Wolfpack won the 1983 national championship in his third season, Valvano had made himself into the state's most visible, and audible, character, appearing almost incessantly on a statewide radio hookup, accepting speaking engagements in every Carolina town and cheerfully promoting a soft drink, a health club, a fast-food chain and a bank.
        Valvano's various activities not so much supplemented as dwarfed his initial annual salary of $50,000, bringing in an estimated $500,000 to $1 million a year.
        "I set out very calculatedly to become known," he said, suggesting that fame would help his recruiting efforts. "The only thing I maybe miscalculated was how easy it would be."
        Whatever misgivings his ubiquitous activities may have engenderded were generally swept away by his impish charm and his self-deprecating humor.
        Flyfishing, a North Carolina passion, was alien to him, he would explain.
        "It's tough casting into a fire hydrant." A Stunning Season
        North Carolinians were mollified even further by what happened at the end of the 1983 season. The Wolfpack finished the regular season in a tie for third place in the Atlantic Coast Conference with an 8-6 record, 17-10 over all. They did not lose again, winning a bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament by capturing the conference tournament, and upsetting higher-ranked teams to reach the final.
        Their opponent was top-ranked Houston, which had won 26 straight games led by Clyde Drexler and the 7-foot Hakeem Olajuwon, currently stars in the National Basketball Association.
        For all their post-season flair, the Wolfpack, which had ended the season ranked 14th by one news agency poll and 17th by another, wasn't given a chance.
        Knowing victory depended on a deliberate pace, Valvano showed his mastery as a coach by slowing the tempo. Still, with just over a minute left, Houston was up by 6 points. Valvano, realizing that the Cougars were weak free-throw shooters, ordered his team to commit fouls, and as the Cougars foundered at the free-throw line, the Wolfpack erased the deficit.
        In the final seconds, North Carolina State's Dereck Whittenburg lofted a long desperation shot that faded short and to the right of the basket. As Olajuwon, out of position, looked on helplessly from the foul line, Lorenzo Charles, who was jumping up as the ball was coming down, grabbed it and slammed it into the net at the buzzer, giving North Carolina State a 54-52 victory.
        To the thousands who attended the game in Alburquerque, N.M., and to the millions who watched on television, Valvano defined the moment of victory, leaping off the bench with a whoop and running wildly down the court looking for someone to hug. A Basketball Family
        James Thomas Valvano, who was born in Corona, Queens, and grew up on Long Island, was raised on basketball. His father, Rocco, and an uncle were high school coaches, and Jim and his brothers all played for his father's Seaford High School team.
        After playing for Rutgers, Valvano spent a year as an assistant coach there before becoming head coach at Johns Hopkins in 1970 at the age of 22. After leading the team to a 10-9 record, the Blue Jays' first winning season in 24 years, he spent two years as an assistant at Connecticut and three as head coach at Bucknell (32-32) before moving to Iona.
        He capped his five years at Iona with two stunning seasons -- a 23-6 record that included the Gaels' first N.C.A.A. appearance, a first-round loss to Penn, in 1979, and a 29-5 season the next year, when the team made it to the N.C.A.A. second round before losing to Georgetown.
        The successes led to the call from North Carolina State. Valvano departed along with all five starters from the 1979-80 Iona team, including its star, Jeff Ruland, a prize Valvano recruit who was declared ineligible for his senior season after he signed a contract with an agent, a violation of N.C.A.A. rules. An N.C.A.A. Inquiry
        Valvano may have ultimately fallen victim to his own salesmanship as a recruiter, sometimes promising more playing time than he could deliver, sometimes blinding himself to possible academic and disciplinary shortcomings.
        The beginning of the end of Valvano's coaching career came early in 1989 with the publicity surrounding a book, "Personal Fouls" (Carroll & Graf), which promised to expose corruption within the North Carolina State basketball program.
        Valvano demanded an N.C.A.A. investigation, which found that some players had improperly sold game tickets and committed other irregularities. Valvano disclaimed any knowledge of the infractions, but was forced to give up his post as athletic director. He remained as basketball coach as the program began a two-year period of probation.
        A few months later, in February 1990, reports surfaced that a former Wolfpack star, Charles Shackleford, had improperly accepted $65,000 from a man posing as an agent and a Wolfpack booster during his years at North Carolina State. Valvano said he had not known about the payments, and Shackleford himself said that the coach hadn't, but in April, Valvano departed to start a career as a commentator with ABC and ESPN.
        A little over two years later, Valvano discovered that he was suffering from cancer.
        His survivors include his wife, Pam, and three daughters, Jamie, Nicole and Lee Ann.
      