
        Cy Howard, a comedy writer, director and producer best remembered for his 1940's radio shows "My Friend Irma" and "Life With Luigi," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 77 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, said a friend, the writer Larry Gelbart.
        "In a town full of carbon copies, he was an original," Mr. Gelbart said. He added that Mr. Howard had engendered many anecdotes during his comedy career that are often retold in Hollywood.
        Once, Mr. Howard was called to Philadelphia by Alfred Bloomingdale, the department-store owner, to give his opinion on a Broadway-bound play he was backing called "Allah Be Praised." Mr. Howard immediately wired Bloomingdale, "Al, the only way you can break even is to close the show and keep the store open nights."
        Mr. Howard, whose original name was Seymour Horowitz, was born on Sept. 27, 1915 in Milwaukee. He attended the University of Wisconsin, where he was junior tennis doubles champion in 1933, then transferred to the University of Minnesota, where he earned a degree in economics.
        After a $70-a-week job as a salesman in Chicago, some modest successes as an actor in New York City and some joke-writing for Danny Thomas, Mr. Howard became a comedy writer for Jack Benny. He later wrote and produced the radio series "My Friend Irma," based on people he had met while living in a rooming house on West 73d Street in Manhattan. The radio series spawned several "Irma" movies -- the first two of which starred Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis -- and a television show on CBS in 1952. "Life With Luigi" also came to television in 1952.
        Mr. Howard also appeared on Broadway in 1944 in a Maxwell Anderson play, "Storm Operation."
        In Hollywood, Mr. Howard wrote the 1965 film "Marriage on the Rocks," was co-writer of "Every Little Crook and Nanny" (1972) and directed "Lovers and Other Strangers" (1970). Mr. Gelbart said that earlier this year Mr. Howard had sold a story, "Proper Education," to the Walt Disney Studios.
        Mr. Howard's first two marriages, to the actresses Nan Wynn and Gloria Grahame, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his third wife, Barbara Warner Howard; a daughter, Paulette Howard of Los Angeles, and a sister, Dorothy Bensman, of Milwaukee.
      