
        Gary DeLoatch, a leading dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan.
        He had a long illness, said Michael Kaiser, the executive director of the Ailey company.
        Mr. DeLoatch was the company's finest dramatic dancer. Tall, rangy and handsome, he could be sweetly innocent and slyly funny at the same time, but was even more compelling in searing dramatic roles, chief among them Charlie (Bird) Parker in Alvin Ailey's "For Bird: With Love," a part Mr. Ailey created for him.  On His Portrayals
        He brought an almost casual conviction to parts that ranged from the prayerful, sensual monk in "Hermit Songs," a solo Mr. Ailey had created for himself, to a variety of elegant dudes, sympathetic acolytes and zany, uninhibitedly exuberant street-corner lotharios. But Mr. DeLoatch did not seem able to play a thorough villain. His drug dealer in "The Stack-Up," a dance by Talley Beatty, was as touchingly pitiable as he was snakelike.
        "There is something very real in Mr. DeLoatch's stage presence," Anna Kisselgoff, the senior dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1988 in a review of "Tell It Like It Is," a solo created for the dancer by Kelvin Rotardier in a program presented by the Ailey company to celebrate Mr. DeLoatch's 10th year with the troupe. "We believe in the characters he creates, in the drama he evokes with gestures he draws out of street life, in the contemporary flavor of his impressive dance technique. His physique projects power and yet the final image with which he often leaves us is that of vulnerability."
        Mr. DeLoatch was born in Philadelphia and was an athlete and gymnast in high school. He received his early dance training from Faye Snow and from Joan Kerr at the Settlement School of Music in Philadelphia. In New York City, he studied at Dance Theater of Harlem. When he was 19, Mr. DeLoatch performed with the George Faison Universal Dance Experience and with companies that included the Chamber Dance Group. When the Ailey company took several of Mr. Faison's dances into its repertory, Mr. DeLoatch came along as a rehearsal director. By 1979, a year after he joined the company as a dancer, Mr. DeLoatch was attracting attention in many solo roles.
        Mr. DeLoatch also appeared in the Broadway and film versions of "The Wiz." Though not a prolific choreographer, he began creating dances early in his career and choreographed pieces for companies that included the Ailey senior and junior troupes. He was an adept children's teacher and led many Ailey outreach programs and performances. Mr. DeLoatch also taught Ailey company classes.
        He is survived by his companion, Stephen Smith of New York, and his mother, Margaret Ella DeLoatch, two sisters, Delores DeLoatch-Hart and Denise Inel DeLoatch, and a brother, Junious Irving DeLoatch, all of Philadelphia.
        A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. on Thursday at the Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea.
      