
        Benjamin Baldwin, an architect and designer known for his simple and timeless interiors, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80 and had a winter home in Sarasota and also lived in East Hampton, L.I.
        The cause was heart complications after a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Baldwin was recognized internationally as a leading force in the modern movement of American design. His work for cultural institutions and prominent Americans was featured in books and numerous magazines. It also was displayed at the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Louvre.
        Jack Lenor Larsen, the furniture and fabric designer, called him the "dean of American interior architects." To Louis Kahn, the architect, he was the "classic interior designer." In Hall of Fame
        Mr. Baldwin's talent extended to virtually every aspect of his chosen metier, from home and office interiors to gardens to furniture and textiles. He was chosen in 1985 as a charter member of the Interior Design Hall of Fame, administered for the industry by Interior Design magazine.
        He sought to integrate form, scale, space, light, color and texture, blending them into a natural, harmonious whole with classic design principles.
        In an interview last year with Wilson Stiles, a writer who was a friend, Mr. Baldwin said, "My work is my expression of opposition to the chaotic world man creates; it is a constant search for the tranquillity one finds in nature."
        A native of Montgomery, Ala., Mr. Baldwin received encouragement from his grandfather to develop his artistic talent and observed architecture on summer trips. In 1935, he received his undergraduate degree in architecture from Princeton University.
        He studied painting with Hans Hofmann, the painter and teacher, who left a lasting impression on him. On a scholarship, he trained at the American School of Fine Arts in Fontainebleau, France, and returned to Princeton for a master's degree in fine arts. Collaborated With Pei
        His career received an important lift in 1940 when he gained recognition in a competition, "Organic Design in Home Furnishings," at the Museum of Modern Art. He then spent four years in the Navy, stationed in French Morocco where he came to appreciate the simplicity of African art.
        In 1948, Mr. Baldwin opened his own practice to design houses, interiors and furniture. He worked in Montgomery, his hometown, and Chicago before settling in Manhattan in 1963.
        Over the years, he collaborated with I. M. Pei on a residence for Charles Tandy in Fort Worth, designed the New York studio of Adolph Gottlieb, the artist, and the studio and apartment of Richard Avedon, the photographer. He joined with the architect Edward Larrabee Barnes on several projects, including the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts. At the New York Philharmonic, he did the Green Room and Leonard Bernstein's dressing room.
        With Mr. Kahn, the architect, he worked on the Yale Center for British Art and the library and dining hall at Phillips Exeter Academy. He also designed the interiors of a museum for the Richardson Foundation in Fort Worth and the Americana Hotel there for the Bass family.
        Mr. Baldwin is survived by three sisters, May Holbrook of Sarasota, Kitty Weese of Chicago and Betty Baldwin of Montgomery.
      