
        Hugh Rodham, the father of President Clinton's wife, Hillary, died last night in Little Rock, Ark. He was 82 and lived in Little Rock.
        Mr. Rodham was hospitalized on March 19 at St. Vincent Infirmary Medical Center after suffering what his doctor said was a stroke. Carolyn Lindsey, the director of communications for the medical center, said Mr. Rodham died at 8:35 P.M.
        The Clintons planned to fly to Little Rock on Thursday morning, Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokeswoman, said.
        Mr. Rodham, the former owner of a drapery-making business, had lived in Chicago, where Mrs. Clinton was born in 1947, and then moved to a suburb, Park Ridge, in 1950. He and his wife moved to Little Rock to be near the Clintons in the late 1980's when Mr. Clinton was Governor.
        Mr. Rodham, a conservative Republican, moved to Chicago in the Depression and operated his small business there for more than a quarter-century, putting in long work days as he strove to expand its sales. He also worked for other textile companies.
        Mrs. Clinton's biographer, Judith Warner, wrote in "Hillary Clinton: the Inside Story" (Signet, 1993) that Mr. and Mrs. Rodham "worked hard to instill the sense in Hillary and her two brothers, Hugh and Tony, that the biggest responsibility of their young lives was to be sure they got the best education possible. 'Learning for learning's sake,' her mother said. 'Learning for earning's sake,' her father joked."
        Mrs. Clinton, the Rodhams' eldest child, once told an interviewer: "My father would come home and say, 'You did well, but could you do better? It's hard out there.' Encouragement was tempered with realism."
        Mr. Rodham grew up in Scranton, Pa., where his British-born father was employed by a fabric company. Hugh Rodham graduated from Pennsylvania State University after studying there on a football scholarship. He served om the Navy during World War II.
        By some accounts, Mr. Rodham had been in poor health before suffering the stroke in March. When he went to a baseball game with Mr. Clinton in July 1992, he walked slowly and with a cane. In late 1992 he made a cameo apperance on the television situation comedy "Hearts Afire." The producers of the series, Harry Thomason and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, are friends of the Clintons.
        Besides Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Rodham's survivors include his wife, the former Dorothy Howell, to whom he was married in 1942, and their two sons, who both live in the Miami area. Hugh Rodham is an assistant public defender in Dade County, and Tony Rodham is a private investigator.
      