
        Richard B. Stearns Jr. a real-estate investment executive, died on Tuesday night at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer of the bladder, said his brother-in-law Cecil Wray.
        Mr. Stearns managed a portfolio of real estate valued at more than $15 billion when he was chairman, from 1989 to 1991, of Prudential Real Estate Investors, which is based in Newark. It is part of the Prudential Insurance Company of America, also based in Newark.
        Of the total, $10 billion worth of real estate was owned by the Prudential, and more than $5 billion was owned by other institutional investors, mostly pension funds.
        He joined the insurance company, which is the country's largest, in 1981 and became chairman or chief executive of three other Newark-based Prudential real-estate and mortgage units. Involved in Schools
        Over the years, Mr. Stearns was also a director or trustee of the Brearley School, an independent school for girls, and the Diller-Quaile School of Music, both in Manhattan; the New York School for the Deaf, in White Plains; the Interracial Council for Business Opportunity, and the National Association of Real Estate Investment Managers.
        He was born in Stamford, Conn., grew up in New Hampshire, and graduated from Kimball Union Academy in Meriden, N.H. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Colgate University in 1960 and a master's degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1961.
        After serving as a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank and of Gulf & Western Industries and as treasurer of Schlumberger Ltd., he joined the Prudential, as a vice president.
        He founded Prudential Home Mortgage Company in 1984 and oversaw its burgeoning operations in its first five years. The company, which was a joint venture with Salomon Brothers from 1984 to 1988, is now the second-largest originator of home mortgages in the United States. From several offices across the country, it issues mortgages to individual home buyers. In 1992 it originated more than $28 billion worth of mortgages. Director of Several Companies
        In early 1992, after a reorganization of the Prudential Realty Group, Mr. Stearns was the chief executive officer of Institutional Investment Management -- a Newark-based division of the Realty Group -- which manages commercial real-estate investments, mostly for pension funds.
        Last year, Mr. Stearns left Prudential and became a managing director of Security Capital Group, a closely held corporation that invests in real estate, using pools of capital provided by investors, and also manages investments in real estate. In addition he was a managing director of several affiliated companies.
        He is survived by his mother, Barbara Stearns, of New London, N.H.; his wife, the former Sharon Gates, to whom he was married in 1968; a son, Owen Johnson Stearns, and two daughters, Hope Gates Stearns and Leigh Asher Stearns, all of Manhattan, and a sister, Ruth Santos, of Larchmont.
      