
        Milan M. Vuitch, a doctor who brought one of the earliest legal challenges to restrictive abortion laws, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital here after suffering a stroke. He was 78 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        Dr. Vuitch's open defiance of legal prohibitions on abortion made him an important figure in the early abortion rights movement during the decade before the Supreme Court's 1973 ruling in Roe v. Wade, which gave women a constitutional right to choose abortion.
        While other doctors around the country during those years provided safe and affordable illegal abortions to patients referred through a network of abortion rights advocates in New York, Dr. Vuitch was one of the very few to speak openly about what he was doing, challenging both the law-enforcement authorities and the medical profession.
        "Women cry for help and doctors just chase them away," he told Lawrence Lader, an early leader of the abortion rights movement, as Mr. Lader quoted him in a 1973 book, "Abortion Two: Making the Revolution." Dr. Vuitch also told Mr. Lader: "I'm getting rid of medical absurdities. If you think that abortion is a medical service, you can't ignore it." Arrested 16 Times
        He performed thousands of abortions a year, principally at a clinic he ran here. He was arrested 16 times in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, but he never served time in jail.
        In 1969, he responded to one arrest by challenging the constitutionality of the District of Columbia's abortion law. That law, which dated to 1901, differed from most others in permitting abortions necessary to preserve a pregnant woman's life or health. Most other jurisdictions at that time had prohibitions with life-saving exceptions but did not mention health.
        Dr. Vuitch's lawyers argued that the law was unconstitutionally vague, because it subjected doctors to criminal prosecution without providing sufficient guidance on what the "health" exception meant.
        Judge Gerhard A. Gesell of Federal District Court agreed with him in the first Federal court decision to find an abortion law unconstitutional. "The jury's acceptance or nonacceptance of an individual doctor's interpretation of the ambivalent and uncertain word 'health' should not determine whether he stands convicted of a felony, facing 10 years' imprisonment," Judge Gesell wrote, adding, "His professional judgment made in good faith should not be challenged."
        In April 1971, the Supreme Court overturned Judge Gesell's ruling in an opinion by Justice Hugo Black, United States v. Vuitch. The law was not unconstitutionally vague, the Court said. But the original ruling had galvanized abortion-rights supporters and infused the struggling movement with new energy. Born in Northern Serbia
        "The real importance of the case was what Judge Gesell said, not what the Supreme Court said," David Garrow, a historian who is writing a book about the period leading up to Roe v. Wade, said today in an interview. "The Gesell opinion had a kind of kick-off effect."
        Mr. Garrow described Dr. Vuitch as "a bridge between the world of underground abortion and the nascent abortion rights movement."
        Milan Vuitch was born in northern Serbia in 1915 to a peasant family. He was a young child when his father died. His mother grew potatoes and beans to support the family.
        He attended the University of Budapest on a full scholarship and received his medical degree in 1939. During World War II, he was taken prisoner first by the Nazis and later by American troops, which captured a German Army hospital train on which he was serving as a conscript in the Hungarian Army. Married an American
        After the war, he returned to Yugoslavia to practice surgery and gynecology and teach at the medical school in Skopje. He married an American, Florence Robinson, who helped him obtain a visa to immigrate to the United States in 1955.
        The couple settled in the Washington area. Dr. Vuitch's early patients were Hungarian immigrants who had fled the 1956 revolution. He performed his first abortion here on a Hungarian woman who begged him for the operation. He charged $100 to $200 for the procedure during his early years; his fee by the time he stopped practicing in the mid-1980's was about $300. He lectured his patients on the need to use birth control.
        Dr. Vuitch is survived by his wife; three sons, Frank Vuitch of Dallas and William and John Vuitch of Silver Spring, and a grandson.
      