
        Hugh E. Rodham was buried today after a service at the Methodist church where his daughter, Hillary Rodham Clinton, was baptized as a child.
        The Rev. Jeffrey Hale of the Court Street United Methodist Church led the private, hourlong service, and President Clinton spoke briefly. After the service, the President and Mrs. Clinton followed the hearse carrying Mr. Rodham's coffin to the Washburn Street Cemetery, on the western slope in this valley town, where Mr. Rodham bought a family plot in 1952.
        Several hundred residents of the north Scranton neighborhood where Mr. Rodham spent his boyhood lined the street outside the Romanesque brick church, hoping for a glimpse of the President and Mrs. Clinton. Followed by several vans carrying guests, the Clintons arrived at 2:15 P.M., a half-hour after a hearse carrying the coffin pulled up.
        Mr. Rodham, who died Wednesday in Little Rock, Ark., at 82, was born in Scranton and lived on Diamond Avenue, a block and half from the church. As a young man, he joined his father as a worker at the Scranton Lace Company.
        Today, the railroads, steel hearths and anthracite coal mining that made Scranton an industrial boom town in the last century have faded to the status of museum pieces, but Scranton Lace still makes tablecloths and draperies in its plant on Meylert Avenue, two blocks from the church.
        The family conducted another funeral service on Thursday in Little Rock, where Mr. Rodham and his wife, Dorothy, had lived since 1987.
        Although Mr. Rodham left Scranton to start his own drapery business in Chicago, he took his three children, Hillary, Hugh Jr. and Tony, back to Scranton to be baptized at Court Street Methodist Church, where he was baptized as a baby in 1911.
        The Clintons plan to spend the rest of Easter weekend at Camp David.
        Scranton was filled today with memories of the Mrs. Clinton's father.
        "They were like any other family around here, except they had a cabin up at the lake," said Merle Leonard, a retired pattern maker who said he had lived on Diamond Avenue across from the Rodhams.
        Mrs. Clinton's father kept the little tan-and-green cabin on Lake Winola, about 12 miles north of here, throughout Mrs. Clinton's childhood, although the family was living in Chicago.
      