
        Franz Schneider, a businessman and investor, died on Friday at his winter home in Key Largo, Fla. He was 105 and lived mainly in Oyster Bay, L.I.
        His daughter, June Occhiuto, said the cause of death was complications from hip surgery after a fall.
        Mr. Schneider was involved in the starting up of a variety of corporations, largely in the natural gas industry after World War II. He became a director of Canadian Export Gas and Oil Ltd., the El Paso Natural Gas Company, Piedmont Natural Gas, the Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation and other companies.
        In 1974, he and another director resigned from the Transcontinental board after the Federal Trade Commission contended that their presence on the board and that of El Paso Natural Gas violated antitrust laws forbidding interlocking directorates between competing companies.
        It was announced at the time that the two men resigned to forstall possible time-consuming hearings. Mr. Schneider felt there was no merit to the commission's contention because the two companies did not complete directly, his son, Franz Jr., said yesterday. Served on Company Boards
        The elder Mr. Schneider was a longtime director of the Continental Oil Company, the Phelps Dodge Corporation and the Newmont Mining Corporation, of which he was an executive in the 1930's and 40's. The other boards he served on included those of the New York Federal Reserve Bank in the 1950's and the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York and Long Island University.
        He was born in Lawrence, Mass., earned B.S. and M.S. degrees in 1909 and 1910 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and was a staff officer in the Army in World War I. He was a financial journalist in the 1920's, held posts in Government agencies dealing with war mobilization and war shipping in World War II and was awarded a Presidential Certificate of Merit for that war work.
        After the death of his first wife, Alice Carroll, Mr. Schneider married Elizabeth Burns in 1936. She was the mother of all his children and died in 1990.
        In addition to his daughter Ms. Occhiuto, of Oyster Bay, and his son, of Marblehead, Mass., he is survived by four other daughters, Elizabeth Miller of Oyster Bay, Timothea Larr of Manhattan, Katherine Fones of Frederick, Md., and Ann Wilson of London; 12 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      