
        Richard C. Failla, the first acknowledged homosexual elected to the New York State Supreme Court and a leader on gay rights and AIDS issues, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was complications from AIDS, said Tony Picard, a family friend.
        Justice Failla was appointed as New York City's first openly gay Criminal Court judge in 1985 by Mayor Edward I. Koch. In 1988, he won an uncontested election to the state court with endorsements from the Democratic, Republican and Liberal parties.
        His rise symbolized an era of growing legal, political and social acceptance of homosexuals, in contrast to the atmosphere when he entered the legal profession in the 1960's. At that time, homosexual acts were still crimes under state law, and gay lawyers were silent for fear of being fired or disbarred. Turning Point
        Justice Failla's life reached a turning point when, as a 30-year-old assistant district attorney, he chastised a lawyer whom he felt was charging exorbitant fees to gay defendants. In an interview years later, he recounted her threatening reply: "I know you're a faggot, and I'm going to get you." He recalled thinking, "I could lose my license, lose my job, lose my ability to practice law -- something I had worked so hard for."
        But instead of being intimidated, he grew determined. "That's when I decided, come what may, I'm not going to live under this kind of oppression, and I will come out," he said. "I'm not going to shout it from the rooftops, but I will not deny it to anybody."
        Even as a young man, Justice Failla had felt different from others and made furtive trips to the library to read about homosexuality. Books of those days described it as an illness and perversion, so for a time he dated women and tried to repress his feelings.
        Eventually he accepted the feelings, and his career flourished as he gained influential positions in legal circles, government, and in gay and AIDS organizations.
        When sworn in as a judge, he said, "The symbolism need not be belabored, but it should be noted," because it signaled to "young gay people that they can be who they are, and that they can achieve whatever their abilities will allow them to do." Born in Queens
        Justice Failla (pronounced FAIL-uh) was born in Queens, where as a boy he worked at his family's grocery store. After graduating from the University of Florida in 1962, he earned a law degree at Columbia in 1965.
        His legal career started in an institution that banned homosexuals, the military. He served in the Navy from 1964 to 1969 as a lieutenant in the judge advocate general corps in the Philippines and in Vietnam. When gay sailors were discharged, he volunteered to defend them.
        For the next five years, he worked in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, becoming a senior trial attorney in the homicide bureau. From 1974 to 1978, he was the director of a Federal project to upgrade legal representation for indigents in the Manhattan and Bronx courts.
        In 1978, Mayor Koch named him the chief administrative judge of the new Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings for city government. The Board of Education put him in charge of hearing misconduct charges against its suspended chancellor, Anthony J. Alvarado, who resigned early in that proceeding.
        In 1984, Mayor Koch appointed William J. Thom as the first openly gay Civil Court judge, then named Justice Failla to the Criminal Court in 1985.
        When the AIDS epidemic arose, Justice Failla joined the newly organized board of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, the world's first and largest private AIDS agency, and later was its vice president.
        He also served on the State Health Department's AIDS Advisory Council, which recommends official policy. And he was instrumental in a 1989 City Bar Association study that found state courts and prisons often violated the legal rights of people with AIDS and endangered their lives with deficient medical care.
        His efforts won awards from the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Fund for Human Dignity and the Lesbian and Gay Law Association of Greater New York.
        His companion of 20 years, Richard Gross, died last year. The judge's survivors include his mother, Florence, and a brother, Robert, both of Tampa, Fla., and his father, Frank, of Safety Harbor, Fla.
      