
        Juan de Borbon, who renounced his claim to the Spanish crown to settle a dispute over the accession of his son, Juan Carlos, died today at the University Hospital of Navarre in Pamplona. He was 79.
        He had been hospitalized since September with throat cancer and died of respiratory and cardiac collapse, a spokeswoman for the royal family said. The King and his two sisters, Princess Pilar and Princess Margarita, were said to have been with their father when he died.
        Don Juan, as he was known throughout Spain, renounced his claim to the Spanish throne in 1977, two years after Juan Carlos had been crowned. In doing so, he ended division among Spanish monarchists during the democratic transition after the death of the dictator Francisco Franco and paved the way for the legitimization of Spain's parliamentary monarchy. The first democratic Constitution, adopted in 1978, proclaimed Juan Carlos the "legitimate heir" of the Spanish monarchy. Monarchy Is 'Suspended'
        Born in the summer palace of La Granja, in Segovia, on June 20, 1913, Don Juan was a witness, and sometimes played a significant part, in Spain's 20th-century upheaval. He was the fourth child of King Alfonso XIII, who "suspended" the monarchy and went into exile in 1931 as the Spanish Republicans were coming into power.
        Alfonso renounced his claim to the throne in favor of Don Juan in January 1941, a month before his death. Don Juan's two older brothers, one a hemophiliac married to a commoner, and the other a deaf mute, had previously renounced their rights to the throne.
        Critical of the Franco dictatorship, Don Juan lived most of his life in exile in Estoril, Portugal, but allowed Juan Carlos to be educated in Spain from the age of 11.
        "I think that Franco saw in my father the only person who could dispute the legitimacy of his power," King Juan Carlos told his biographer, Jose Luis de Vilallonga in the recently published book, "The King."
        In 1947, Franco proclaimed Spain a monarchy with himself as life regent, responsible for the choice of his successor. When Franco designated Juan Carlos as his successor in 1969, Don Juan, then 56, faced the most difficult period of his life. Although biographers say he understood his son's decision to accept, it caught him by surprise and he felt deeply hurt. Don Juan had always maintained that his right to the throne was "irreversible and unrenounceable."
        A period of chilly relations with his son followed for several years, although Don Juan is said to have recognized that his son's acceptance of Franco's appointment was the only way to restore the monarchy. Franco would never have accepted Don Juan as King, and thought that Juan Carlos, hand-picked and groomed to take over, would be more docile and pliable.
        Two days after the death of Franco on Nov. 20, 1975, Juan Carlos was sworn in as King. Just before the dictator's death, Don Juan gave instructions to his followers to "help" his son, Mr. Vilallonga wrote in "The King."
        In July 1976, Juan Carlos appointed Adolfo Suarez to head a new transition Government and proclaimed a sweeping political amnesty. Soon after, the Francoist Parliament voted to dissolve itself, and unions and political parties were legalized.
        On May 14, 1977, Don Juan, whom his followers still addressed as "the King," formally abdicated in favor of Juan Carlos in a small family reunion at the Zarzuela Palace in Madrid, ending his 36-year claim to the throne. The first democratic elections in Spain were held in June 1977, and the first democratic Constitution was approved by popular referendum in December 1978, legitimizing the title of King Juan Carlos. Close Family Ties
        Family relations remained close and cordial throughout the remainder of Don Juan's life. He moved to Madrid in 1982 and declared in 1985 that King Juan Carlos "has brought to Spain the monarchy for which I had fought."
        Don Juan retained the title of Count of Barcelona, a title formerly held only by the King. The Crown Prince's title, Prince of Asturias, skipped a generation and was given to Prince Felipe, the son of King Juan Carlos.
        Although he was never a king, Don Juan will be buried next to his father, Alfonso XIII, in the pantheon of the 16th-century Escorial Monastery outside Madrid, the traditional resting place of Spanish royalty.
        The Government of Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez has decreed seven days of official mourning, with funeral honors reserved for kings. His body will lie in state on Friday at the Royal Palace in Madrid, where Don Juan grew up. A private funeral Mass will be held Friday at the Royal Palace and another open to the public on Monday, after the body is transferred to the Escorial. A state funeral will be held in the Escorial next Wednesday. Most of Europe's royal families will be represented.
        Don Juan is survived by his wife, Maria de las Mercedes; his son the King and his two daughters, Princess Pilar and Princess Margarita. King Juan Carlos has three children, Crown Prince Felipe, Princess Elena and Princess Cristina.
      