
        Stephen P. Taylor, an economist and a retired official of the Federal Reserve System, died last Friday at a hospital in Arlington, Va., his hometown. He was 69.
        He died of injuries suffered in a fall from a bicycle, his family said.
        Mr. Taylor worked for 32 years at the Federal Reserve's headquarters in Washington in the Flow of Funds and Saving Section, which he headed from 1961 until he retired in 1985.
        The flow-of-funds system tries to track all significant parts of the economy, including borrowing, lending, saving and investment. Other countries have adopted the system.
        Mr. Taylor integrated the statistics into a single system and was responsible for its early computerization. He also helped to develop the United Nations' national capital finance accounts, and devised a measure of private holdings of credit instruments called the Kaufman debt proxy. Head of Statisticians Group
        He became assistant director of the Federal Reserve's Research and Statistics Division, and was president of the Group of Financial Statisticians of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an international group based in Paris.
        In retirement, he was a consultant on balance-of-payments discrepancies for the International Monetary Fund, helped Indonesia on statistics for the Agency for International Development and last year joined a mission to Kyrgyzstan in the former Soviet Union for the World Bank's first report on the new nation.
        Mr. Taylor was born in White Plains. He served in the Marines after graduating from Cornell University in 1944 and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1949.
        His first wife, Natalie, died in 1989. He is survived by his second wife, Phyllis; three daughters, Carol Taylor of Eureka, Calif., Valerie Taylor of San Rafael, Calif., and Wendy Kafka of McGrath, Minn.; a sister, Mary T. Peterman of White Plains; six grandchildren; two stepchildren, Henry D. Lockhart 3d and Melissa L. Harlow, and four stepgrandchildren.
      