
        Wallace Stegner, the novelist and short-story writer whose work celebrated the American West and won him the country's highest literary awards, died on Tuesday night at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 84 and lived in Los Altos Hills, Calif.
        The cause of death was respiratory failure, said Lynn Stegner, his daughter-in-law. On March 28, Mr. Stegner was seriously injured in a traffic accident in Santa Fe, where he had gone to give a lecture.
        In a literary career that covered more than 50 years and produced more than two dozen novels, historical works and collections of stories and essays, Mr. Stegner found the Western frontier spirit of boundless optimism receding.  But he saw in its place, as he once expressed it, "a respect for the heroic virtues: fortitude, resolution, magnanimity." The Potential for Dignity
        His preoccupation with these upbeat qualities separated Mr. Stegner's writing from the despair and alienation in the work of many of his contemporaries. His characters seem propelled by the author's conviction "that man, even Modern Man, has some dignity if he will assume it, and that most lives are worth living even when they are lives of quiet desperation."
        To appreciate the West, he once remarked, "You have to get over the color green; you have to quit associating beauty with gardens and lawns; you have to get used to an inhuman scale."
        He also turned upside down the stereotypical characters of the West: the barroom beauties with hearts of gold and the lean, heroic cowboys in their chaps and Stetsons. In "Remembering Laughter," he portrayed two sisters who are a complex mixture of youthful exuberance, penance and hatred; in "All the Little Live Things" (1967) and later in "The Spectator Bird" (1976), the recurring character Joe Allston, a fearful retired literary agent, struggles to extricate himself from a tragic past.  'The New World's Last Chance'
        "The West does not need to explore its myths much further; it has already relied on them too long," he told a reporter in 1981. "The West is politically reactionary and exploitative: admit it. The West as a whole is guilty of inexplicable crimes against the land: admit that, too. The West is rootless, culturally half-baked. So be it."
        Despite all this, he continued, the West remains "the New World's last chance to be something better, the only American society still malleable enough to be formed."
        He won the 1972 Pulitzer Prize in fiction for "Angle of Repose," a novel about an elderly, sickly man who learns to accept his anguish when he studies the lives of his grandparents and realizes that their lives, too, left much to be desired.
        In 1977, he won a National Book Award for "The Spectator Bird." His work has been nominated several times for the National Book Critics Circle Awards, including this year for a 1992 collection of essays, "Where the Bluebird Sings to the Lemonade Springs: Living and Writing in the West." Dream of the Easy Life
        Among his most popular novels was "The Big Rock Candy Mountain" (1943), a semiautobiographical work in which two sons learn to cope with life by coming to understand their father's failings. When Mr. Stegner was a child, his father had shuttled the family from North Dakota to the state of Washington, and from Saskatchewan to Montana and Utah, pursuing the dream of an easy life that was always just out of reach. The book's title is taken from the hobo song about an imaginary land where life is never less than ideal.
        An important theme of that and other works was the fragility of the environment. In an essay for The Saturday Review in 1964, Mr. Stegner compared the way Americans were learning about the environment to the cracker-barrel joke about the boy who twisted the mule's tail and "isn't as pretty as he once was, but knows more."
        "There is nothing in the history of the West that indicates any great concern for the environment or for the renewability and sustainability of the economy," he said in an interview last year. "Nor for the labor force used in that exploitation. Those are all serious mistakes."
        His "Beyond the Hundredth Meridian" is a biography of John Wesley Powell, who explored the Colorado River. "Wolf Willow" is a history of Saskatchewan.
        Another significant nonfiction work was "One Nation" (1945), a collection of photographs illustrating the corrosive effect of racial prejudice in the United States. The book was a co-winner of the Anisfield-Wolfe Award for the best book of the year on race relations. A Teaching Career
        Besides writing and editing, Mr. Stegner had a long career as a teacher of creative writing and literature at the University of Utah, the University of Wisconsin, Harvard University and Stanford University, where he was the director of the Creative Writing Center from 1945 until his retirement in 1971.
        His students at Stanford included a number who went on to become notable writers, including Larry McMurtry.
        Wallace Earle Stegner was born on Feb. 18, 1909, in Lake Mills, Iowa, the son of Scandinavian immigrants. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Utah in 1930, a master's degree from the University of Iowa in 1932 and a doctorate from Iowa in 1935.
        He then taught English at the University of Utah, and began his literary career in earnest after winning a $2,500 Little, Brown novelette contest in 1937 with "Remembering Laughter," a tale about an adulterous triangle in Iowa farm country.
        In addition to his daughter-in-law, he is survived by his wife, Mary; a son, Page Stegner, who is a novelist and professor of American literature and creative writing at the University of California at Santa Cruz, and three grandchildren.
      