
        Dr. Denis P. Burkitt, a missionary surgeon in Africa who turned to research in his late 40's and came up with important findings on cancer and nutrition, died on March 23 in England. He was 82.
        His death from a stroke was reported in the current issue of The British Medical Journal.
        Dr. Burkitt's maps of the incidence of a tumor that occurred in children across Africa accelerated research into whether viruses cause cancer. His championing of a thesis that high fiber protected against colon cancer and many other diseases led millions of people to change their diet. Detective Work Relished
        Despite the loss of an eye in a childhood accident, Dr. Burkitt became a surgeon and a Presbyterian missionary. His major medical contributions came from a passion for plotting diseases on maps and a relish for detective work carried out as a distraction from the operating room.
        His first important finding came in the late 1950's and early 1960's after he and two colleagues visited hospitals on a 10,000-mile trip to study the distributuon pattern of the most common childhood cancer in East Africa. It was a rapidly fatal cancer of the immune system, which is now known as Burkitt's lymphoma. It occurs in five million square miles of Africa between the latitudes 10 degrees north and 10 degrees south.
        Ultimately, Dr. Burkitt and his colleagues recognized that the map reflected altitude and climatic conditions that suggested the childhood cancer might be due to a virus spread by insects.
        Through collaboration with researchers in New York City and elsewhere, Dr. Burkitt went on to develop a combination of drugs that usually melted the cancer and sometimes cured it. Eating Habit Criticized
        Then in the 1970's and 1980's, Dr. Burkitt plotted maps that pointed to vast differences in the kinds of diseases affecting poor Africans and the affluent in the Western world. In trying to explain the differences, Dr. Burkitt turned to observations made earlier by others. In lectures in New York City and elsewhere, Dr. Burkitt criticized the modern habit of eating carbohydrate sugars and starches in refined form, stripped of their bulky, chewy coverings. And he pointed to dangers of eating white flour.
        Dr. Burkitt's investigations contributed in turn to additional research developments in cancer, chemotherapy, immunology and infectious diseases. It was after listening to a lecture by Dr. Burkitt in London that Dr. Tony Epstein went on to discover what is now known as the Epstein-Barr virus. It has been linked to Burkitt's lymphoma, infectious mononucleosis and cancer of the nose and mouth.
        Dr. Burkitt received the highest scientific honors in many countries, including the Lasker Award in the United States. Friends described him as a modest and deeply religious man with an infectious sense of humor. When he lectured, he held an audience spellbound, often drawing on anecdotes from his experiences in Africa.
        Denis Parsons Burkitt was born on Feb. 28, 1911, in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, where his father was a surveyor and naturalist. The senior Burkitt is credited with pioneering the ringing of birds to map out their territories and movements. Answering 'God's Call'
        Denis Burkitt considered becoming an engineer when he enrolled at Trinity College in Dublin. But he settled on medicine after conquering chemistry, a subject for which he had little aptitude. As a medical student he attended evangelistic rallies and developed what would be a persuasive speaking style.
        In 1938, after training as a surgeon, Dr. Burkitt spent five months on a cargo ship bound for Manchuria, reading and planning his future as a surgeon and missionary. But his application for the Colonial Services in West Africa was rejected. The official reason was his glass right eye. Dr. Burkitt suspected it was because of his religious zeal.
        So he joined the British Army. In 1943 he married the former Olive Rogers on a 48-hour pass. He was sent to Kenya and decided to stay in Africa. After the war, the Colonial Medical Service decided that loss of an eye was not a handicap and appointed Dr. Burkitt government surgeon in Uganda.
        "I didn't go out to Africa for science but because what I believed to be God's call, and I've had no complaints," Dr. Burkitt told a medical historian, Elmer Bendiner, for an article he wrote in Hospital Practice, a medical journal published in New York. "I gave a spoonful and got back a shovelful."
        From 1946 to 1964, Dr. Burkitt often worked in remote areas in small hospitals that had no X-ray facilities, and he taught surgery at Makerere University Medical School in Kampala. He ministered to his patients' spiritual as well as physical needs.
        On a home leave in Britain, Dr. Burkitt took courses to learn orthopedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine and devised ways to make cheap artificial limbs. When he returned to Uganda, he set up a small workshop where limbs could be made from plastic and spare iron. Crutches were made from iron scrap and broom handles.
        In 1957, a colleague, Dr. Hugh Trowell, asked Dr. Burkitt to examine the swollen jaws of a 5-year-old boy. The swelling was due to a tumor that was beyond surgical treatment. Soon Dr. Burkitt recognized similar cases and found that the jaw tumors appeared in many other areas of the body. A Career in Research
        A colleague told him the cancer was unknown in South Africa. Curious, Dr. Burkitt set out to map the peculiar distribution of the lymphoma, and he relinquished his scalpel for a new career, full-time medical research.
        Dr. Burkitt reported the tumor in 1958 in The British Journal of Surgery. It drew little notice. But Dr. Burkitt persisted, and gathered additional data showing that the tumor did occur elsewhere in the world but far less often than in East Africa. Further analysis showed that Burkitt's lymphoma followed the distribution of malaria and yellow fever, suggesting spread by an insect.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Burkitt again collaborated with Dr. Trowell, a nutritional expert, and expounded the dietary fiber hypothesis in scientific journals and in several books.
        In its obituary, The Lancet, an international medical journal published in London, said: "Some of the original fiber hypothesis has had to be dropped, more has been toned down or modified but, thanks largely to Burkitt, the science of nutrition was galvanized into new life and people's eating habits all over the Western world changed drastically."
        Dr. Burkitt, who lived in Bisley, Gloucestershire, in southwest England, is survived by his wife and three daughters: Judy, Cas and Rachel
      