
        Dr. Harrison Echols, a biologist whose findings advanced the understanding of viral infections and normal cell functions, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 59.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, the University of California said.
        Dr. Echols was professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        He was internationally known for his studies of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), the material in all cells that contains the genetic code. DNA was isolated more than a century ago, but its complex molecular structure -- a double helix -- was deciphered only in the 1950's. Since then, researchers have been puzzling out its significance and function as the chemical bearer of hereditary characteristics.
        Professor Echols was a pioneer in the biochemical study of how a virus DNA moves in and out of a host cell's DNA. He and his peers showed that giant complexes of DNA control seemingly disparate processes and insure that the tasks are done efficiently and accurately.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences two years ago. Membership is considered one of the highest honors to which an American scientist or engineer can aspire.
        Dr. Echols was among the first molecular biologists to work with the bacterial virus lambda, a convenient virus to study, to try to find out how cells produce proteins and duplicate chromosomes, said a colleague at Berkeley, Prof. Randy W. Schekman.
        "His unique contributions were in discovering how the lambda chromosome recombines into and out of a bacterial chromosome so as to allow the virus to propagate along with the host organism," said Dr. Schekman, head of biochemistry and molecular biology. "These studies were influential in suggesting how certain human tumor viruses may combine with a cell's chromosome." Clarity in Writing
        The scientist gained a reputation for presenting difficult concepts clearly and precisely. He believed that scientists owed it to the public to explain their work in understandable language. At his death he was writing an intellectual history of his field called "Operators and Promoters: The Story of Molecular Biology." The university said the book would be published.
        Professor Echols, known as Hatch, was born in Charlottesville, Va. He received a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Wisconsin, where he returned to teach after postdoctoral training at M.I.T. He became a professor at Berkeley in 1969.
        Professor Echols is survived by his wife, Prof. Carol Gross of the University of California Medical School in San Francisco; three daughters by a previous marriage, Catharine Echols of Austin, Tex., Elizabeth Echols of Washington and Jean E. Lighthall of Baltimore; a son, Robert, of Davis, Calif.; a sister, Anne Echols of Charlottesville, and one granddaughter.
      