
        Peter F. Fleischmann, the former president and chairman of The New Yorker magazine, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan at the age of 71.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        For 32 years he served as an officer of The New Yorker. His father, Raoul H. Fleischmann, was the financial backer who co-founded the magazine in 1925 with the editor Harold Ross, and was its first president, chairman and publisher.
        Mr. Fleischmann joined the company as a director in 1953. He became treasurer of the board in 1955, while still in his early 30's; executive vice president in 1965, and president in 1968. After his father's death in 1969, he succeeded as the chairman.
        For many years the magazine flourished, both as a literary journal and a business.
        At its peak, The New Yorker was forced to turn down some advertising for lack of space. In 1975, noting that the last time the magazine had borrowed money was in 1930, Mr. Fleischmann mused that "banks get very cross at us." In later years, however, revenues declined. Observed Strict SeparationXx
        Mr. Fleischmann upheld his father's tradition of strict separation of the magazine's business side from its editorial functions under Mr. Ross and his successor as editor, William Shawn.
        "It's unique," Mr. Fleischmann said in 1975 of the editorial department's independence. "I don't think anybody understands it except maybe Shawn and myself."
        Control of The New Yorker was sold to Samuel I. Newhouse's Advance Publications in 1985 for $142 million. The next year, Mr. Fleischmann retired, citing ill health.
        Although he agreed to the sale and received more than $40 million for his stock, Mr. Fleischmann also expressed reluctance. "The takeover of The New Yorker was hard to bear," he said afterward. "For 60 years there had been a Fleischmann on the premises and in charge, and now there was none."
        Mr. Fleischmann was born in Manhattan, descended from an Austrian immigrant family that started the Fleischmann yeast company.
        He graduated from Yale in 1944. During World War II he served as a captain in the Army, fighting the German counteroffensive in the Battle of the Bulge, and was wounded twice.
        After the war he went into business, working at Smith Barney & Company and serving as secretary-treasurer of Electronic Control Corporation.
        His first marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his second wife, the former Jeanne Cowles; two sons, James R. of Langhorne, Pa., and Stephen F. of Manhattan; a daughter, Ruth Planitzer of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      