
        Nearly 23 years after he was captured and killed in Cambodia while covering the war, the remains of Welles Hangen, an award-winning NBC News correspondent, were buried yesterday in a ceremony marked by a 21-gun salute at Arlington National Cemetery.
        Mr. Hangen and his television crew were seized by Viet Cong and Khmer Rouge guerrillas in southern Cambodia on May 31, 1970. They were killed three days later.
        Mr. Hangen, who was 40 years old when he was slain, was one of more than a score of news corrspondents who died covering the war in Southeast Asia. Moments before he and his colleagues were captured, three members of a CBS News team led by George Syvertsen were killed when their jeep struck a mine further up the road.
        Mr. Hangen's widow, Patricia Hangen, who set out years ago to learn the facts surrounding her husband's death, received a folded United States flag at the ceremony yesterday. Search for Remains Delayed
        After his disappearance, Mrs. Hangen and many of her husband's friends hoped he would turn up later as a released prisoner. But the search for him was halted in 1975 when the Khmer Rouge came to power, and it was not until 1991, when Cambodia was moving toward a peace accord, that an NBC News team was allowed to return to the Cambodian village where Mr. Hangen and his colleagues were last seen, about 30 miles south of Phnom Penh near the Vietnamese border.
        The villagers reported that Mr. Hangen had been beaten to death and directed the crew toward a riverbed in a rice field. An initial excavation last year by the United States military failed to turn up the remains, but the Army returned and found four skeletons a few yards away last March.
        Tests confirmed two weeks ago that one of the recovered skeletons was that of Mr. Hangen.
        A former reporter for The New York Times, Mr. Hangen joined NBC in 1958. As a newspaper and television journalist he covered stories ranging from the Middle East to the Soviet Union to the Far East.
        A collection of Mr. Hangen's audio and video tapes was installed at the Museum of Broadcasting in Manhattan in 1978.
      