
        Mario Moreno, who was better known as Cantinflas, Mexico's most famous comic actor, died on Tuesday in Mexico City. He was 81.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Mario Jr.
        Thousands of mourners gathered yesterday outside the funeral home where his body lay. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari paid his respects there and issued a statement that said, "Cantinflas glorified, in an exceptional manner, the wit and dignity of our people."
        Cantinflas (pronounced cahn-TEEN-flas) made 49 films over a half-century, but is best known for his role as Passepartout, Phileas Fogg's devoted valet in the 1956 film "Around the World in 80 Days." David Niven played Fogg, the urbane explorer.
        By the time Cantinflas made his United States film debut in "Around the World," some two dozen of his films had earned him a personal fortune estimated at $25 million. After seeing one of his Mexican films, Charles Chaplin is said to have declared, "He's the greatest comedian alive!" Philanthropist and Reformer
        That judgment of Cantinflas, who was often called "Latin America's Chaplin," was one shared by millions of Spanish-speaking moviegoers, who idolized the wistful clown. He was revered by Mexicans as his country's most active philanthropist and as a worker and propagandist for social reform.
        But most of all, in Mexico and throughout Latin America, Cantinflas was loved for his onscreen epitomization of the bedraggled underdog who always, in the end, manages to endure his tribulations.
        Cantinflas was born in a Mexico City slum on Aug. 12, 1911, the son of a postal worker. As a child he earned small change by singing and dancing in the streets, and while still a teen-ager ran away to join a traveling tent show.
        One night, forced to substitute for the missing master of ceremonies of the show, he went into the spotlight and suffered stage fright so profound that everything he said came out garbled. The audience laughed at his disjointed sentences, however, and he soon began working on a routine featuring a combination of gibberish, double-talk, mispronunciation, wild exaggeration and pantomime.
        During one performance, a heckler shouted, "En la cantina tu inflas!" ("In the barroom you talk big!"), a phrase the comedian found so delightful that he contracted it to Cantinflas and adopted it as his stage name. (Years later, the name entered the Spanish language in some dictionaries. As a verb, "cantinflar" means to talk a lot and say little; the noun "cantinflas" means lovable clown.) Started in Commercials
        In 1937, Cantinflas married Valentina Zubareff, the daughter of the tent show's owner. In 1940, at her urging, he began making short commercial films advertising trucks and household appliances in the Latin-American market. They were so well received that he joined with two partners to form Posa Films to produce movies starring himself.
        His first two films, "Here's the Point" and "Neither Blood Nor Sand," broke box-office records all over Latin America. Many more, all moneymakers, followed, and although in recent years he limited himself to making one film annually, his public never tired of revivals of his old movies.
        Cantinflas became a millionaire many times over, and he lived like one. He maintained five homes, including one in Mexico City that housed an extensive art collection, a swimming pool, a bowling alley, a jai alai court, a theater, and barber and beauty salons. He often flew his own airplane to his 1,000-acre ranch, La Purisima, where he raised fighting bulls. He was also a legendary soft touch who, it was once estimated, doled out $175,000 a year to long lines of people who queued up almost daily at his door. At one time he was the sole support of more than 250 destitute families in a Mexico City slum called Granjas, where he later built 64 apartment houses. He sold the units to the poor for a fraction of their worth. Benefit Performances
        In addition to the money that he gave away, Cantinflas raised funds for charity by appearing at dozens of benefits every year. The most successful of these were his annual performances as a wacky bullfighter, which always packed the 46,000-seat Plaza Mexico in Mexico City. His bullfighting burlesque was a comic highlight of his performance in "Around the World in 80 Days."
        The extent to which he was idolized was never more apparent than in 1951, when officials unveiled a half-blocklong mural on the wall of a new theater depicting great heroes in Mexican history. Diego Rivera, the artist, had put Cantinflas in the center panel.
        Cantinflas's wife died in 1966. He is survived by his son and three grandchildren.
      