
        George Rude, a British historian and author known for his study of the role of common people in social upheaval, died on Jan. 8 at a hospice near his home in Rye, England. He was 82.
        The cause of death was not known.
        Mr. Rude (pronounced roo-DAY) was part of a school of Marxist historians who focused on what it regarded as the neglected role of common people, an approach sometimes described as "history from below." His own work centered on revolutionary crowds, which some scholars tended to disdain as malevolent mobs and others had idealized as forces for good.
        Looking beyond such assumptions, Mr. Rude delved into police archives and took a closer look at demonstrators arrested, for example, in the French Revolution. He concluded that most of them were workers and middle-class people with legitimate grievances like spiraling food prices and that they lacked a voice in governing their fate.  Author of 15 Books
        He wrote 15 books. J.H. Plumb, a British historian, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called Mr. Rude's "Paris and London in the Eighteenth Century: Studies in Popular Protest" (Viking, 1972), "elegant and perceptive."
        The son of a Norwegian and an Englishwoman, Mr. Rude was born in Oslo but raised in England, attending Shrewsbury School and Trinity College, Cambridge.
        He taught at preparatory schools in the 1930's and 40's and worked during World War II fighting fires caused by German bombing. He received a Ph.D. from the University of London in 1950.
        His focus of historical interest arose from his support of Communism, which was fostered during a visit to the Soviet Union in 1931. He joined the British Communist Party in 1935.
        Disillusioned by Stalinism, he quit the Communist Party in 1959 and the following year moved to Australia to teach at the University of Adelaide and University of Flinders.
        He later moved to Canada, accepting a post at Concordia University in Montreal in 1970 where he founded the Inter-University Center for European Studies. He retired in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Doreen de la Hoyde.
      