
        Andries P. Treurnicht, the adamant advocate of apartheid who founded South Africa's Conservative Party, died yesterday at a hospital in Cape Town. He was 72.
        He died after heart bypass surgery, said the party's chief whip, Frank le Roux.
        Dr. Treurnicht established his party to oppose concessions by the ruling National Party, which first devised the apartheid system, to the country's nonwhite majority. Preacher, Editor and Official
        He was a former fire-and-brimstone preacher in the Dutch Reformed Church and a newspaper editor. As a member of the National Party, he rose to prominence and became a Cabinet member.
        But in 1982, alarmed by Prime Minister P. W. Botha's talk of "power sharing" and proposed concessions to South Africans of mixed race and of Asian descent, he quit the National Party and formed a new one.
        "We reject the idea of an open society," he said then. His steadfast intransigence on apartheid earned him the nickname "Dr. No."
        In 1991, as President F. W. de Klerk was proceeding with the dismantling of apartheid, Dr. Treurnicht said, "It is unthinkable to say we will submit to black domination." A Force in Legislature
        The Conservatives achieved some electoral success, and they became the largest minority party in the white-dominated Parliament.
        His death poses new uncertainties for his party, over who will succeed him as leader and what policies the Conservatives will press as the country drafts a new national constitution.
        Until now, the Conservatives have bitterly opposed moves to grant rights to the black majority and other nonwhites. But under Dr. Treurnicht, the Conservatives also distanced themselves from more extreme rightist groups like the neo-Nazi Afrikaner Resistance Movement.
        That relatively respectable image was shaken, however, with the arrest last week of a Conservative leader, Clive Derby-Lewis, and his wife Gaye, for questioning about the assassination of Chris Hani, a popular, militant leader in the African National Congress and the South African Communist Party. Factional Struggle Predicted
        Wim Booyse, a political consultant, predicted "there will be a battle royal" between the Conservative factions for control of the party. He said that for some members, "obviously violence is in the back of their minds."
        One contender for the Conservative leadership, Ferdi Hartzenberg, said earlier this week that the party's focus is to partition the country, with an independent state set aside for whites.
        Born in 1921 near Piketberg in Cape Province, Dr. Treurnicht was educated at the Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape Town. He was a Dutch Reformed minister from 1946 to 1960, then was the editor of Die Kerkbode, a church weekly, from 1960 to 1967 and of Hoofstad, a Pretoria daily, from 1967 to 1971.
        After his election to Parliament in 1971, he rose to a succession of high party and government posts. Posts in Government
        They included National Party provincial leader in the Transvaal, Deputy Minister of Education and Training, Deputy Minister of Plural Relations and Development, Minister of Public Works, and Minister for State Administration and Statistics.
        As his conservative views clashed with movements for change within the National Party, he was suspended as the Transvaal leader and then resigned from the Cabinet to form the Conservative Party.
        Dr. Treurnicht denounced Mr. de Klerk's moves to grant rights to nonwhites, saying "We are surely doomed to national suicide." He opposed compromise, saying, "If we think we can buy off revolutionary political demands with better living conditions, we are making a big mistake."
        In 1991 he said of the black leader Nelson Mandela, "He wants white capitulation. He wants black majority rule! But I tell you, Mr. Mandela, we have a love of what is ours, and we shall protect it."
        But the next year, despite Dr. Treurnicht's campaigning, Mr. de Klerk won an overwhelming endorsement of his policies in a referendum in which only whites were allowed to vote.
      