
        Mieczyslaw Horszowski, a pianist whose performances were admired for their elegance, reflectiveness and clarity of musical intent in a career that lasted more than nine decades, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 100.
        John G. Zawadziski, a friend of the family, said the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Horszowski made his debut as a child prodigy, playing a Beethoven concerto in Warsaw in 1901, and continued giving concerts and making recordings until last year. He was not so famous as Arthur Rubinstein, Vladimir Horowitz or other elder statesmen of the keyboard in the late 20th century. But he always had a strong cult following, and in recent years his reputation and audience blossomed anew as a younger generation discovered him through a recent series of recordings that reveal his special mastery of the works of Chopin, Mozart, Schubert, Debussy and Bach.
        He was also greatly esteemed by his colleagues. He was a frequent chamber-music partner of the cellist Pablo Casals. He first performed with Arturo Toscanini in 1906 and continued appearing with him until 1953. When he was seeking an American foothold at the start of World War II, Rudolf Serkin invited him to join the faculty of the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. Throughout his career, he gave recitals with the violinists Joseph Szigeti and Alexander Schneider, the cellist Janos Starker and the tenor Askel Schiotz. And he outlived them all, winning a place in the musical record books for the span of his career. Playing at 3, Touring at 11
        Mieczyslaw Horszowski (pronounced myeh-chih-SWAHF hor-SHOFF-skee) was born on June 23, 1892, in Lvov, Poland (now in Ukraine). His father owned a piano shop, and his mother was an amateur pianist who had studied with Karl Mikuli, a pupil of Chopin. He began to pick out melodies at the piano when he was 3 years old, and by the time he was 5, he was playing the Bach Inventions by memory and composing works of his own.
        In 1899 he began his formal studies with Theodor Leschetizky, a legendary virtuoso whose students included Ignace Paderewski, Artur Schnabel, Benno Moiseiwitsch, Ignaz Friedman and other great pianists who flourished in the first half of the 20th century. By 1903 Mr. Horszowski, then 11, was touring Europe and making an impression on some of the great musicians of the day. Around this time, he became friendly with Casals, Rubinstein and the violinist Jacques Thibaud, and he performed for the composers Ravel and Faure.
        In 1906, after touring Europe and South America, the 14-year-old pianist made his New York debut. He was known, at the time, for his interpretations of Romantic composers like Tchaikovsky and Grieg. A dozen years later, he changed his emphasis to the music of Ravel, Debussy and the French Impressionists, and after World War II he drifted toward Chopin, Mozart and Beethoven.
        Mr. Horszowski dropped out of the performing world for seven years starting in 1911. At the time, he announced that he wanted to continue his studies, not only in music but in Greek, Latin and other academic fields. He settled in Paris until the end of World War I, and then in Milan, where he resumed performing. The Limitations of Small Hands
        When Mr. Horszowski returned to the United States in 1926, he presented what he considered his mature debut. By then, both his strengths and limitations were apparent in a way that they were not when he performed as a child, 20 years earlier. His hands, for instance, were comparatively small and reached just over an octave, putting much of the splashy Romantic virtuoso literature out of his range. But he turned this limitation into an asset by focusing on music that was written on a more compact scale and made intellectual rather than physical demands.
        These characteristics were noted in reviews from the 1920's onward. Reviewing the first 1926 concert, a critic for The New York Times praised Mr. Horszowski's "urbanity and moderation." A month later, another Times reviewer wrote that he played a Bach English Suite in "a scholarly spirit, with meticulous care and accuracy."
        At the start of World War II, Mr. Horszowski came to the United States by way of Brazil. He eventually settled in Philadelphia, where he joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute. Among his more distinguished students were Seymour Lipkin, Anton Kuerti, Peter Serkin, Murray Perahia and Richard Goode.
        Mr. Horszowski performed widely from the 1940's on, and he undertook a few marathon projects. In the 1954-55 season, for example, he played all of Beethoven's solo piano works in 12 recitals. In 1960 he played all the Mozart sonatas in four concerts.
        Contemporary music was also part of his repertory, though not a large part of it. In the 1920's, he gave the first New York performances of works by Honegger, d'Indy, Stravinsky and Szymanowski. Even as late as 1975, in a concert celebrating (slightly early) the 75th anniversary of his debut, he gave the New York premiere of a set of Bagatelles by the Finnish composer Joonas Kokkonen. And unlike most pianists of his generation, he experimented, though gingerly, with the fortepiano. In 1983, he played part of a recital at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on an 18th-century Cristofori fortepiano.
        From the 1940's through the early 1970's, Mr. Horszowski collaborated with other musicians nearly as much as he performed as a soloist. He was a regular visitor to the Casals festivals in the village of Prades, France, and in San Juan, P.R., and he performed with Casals at the United Nations in 1958 and in a televised concert at the White House in 1961. His collaborative performances were often as impressive as his solo recitals. When he accompanied the Polish bass Doda Conrad in Schubert's "Winterreise" in 1942, for example, he played the lengthy, detailed cycle from memory.
        Mr. Horszowski's memory was one of the secrets of his longevity. In the 1980's, when he began to lose his eyesight, he drew on the enormous repertory he had memorized over the years in preparing for his recitals and recordings. He also relied on his wife, Bice Costa, a pianist whom he married in 1981, who helped him practice by dictating the notes when he was unsure. He married only once, at the age of 89; his wife survives him, as do a sister, Sister Marie Delacroix; a brother, Andre, and a stepbrother, Eugene, all of whom live in France.
        Listening to even his very last recordings, one would not have had the impression that he was ever unsure about anything. Among his finest recordings are a set devoted to the first book of Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier," released by Vanguard in 1981, and a series of mixed recitals recorded by Nonesuch in the late 1980's and early 1990's. A collection of superb live recordings, recorded from 1958 to 1983, was released last year by Pearl Records.
        In recording the Nonesuch series, and in presenting his final recitals, Mr. Horszowski rarely provided a program in advance, but instead played the works that moved him at the moment. The result was the kind of pure, unforced musical expression that gave the impression that the music was being improvised on the spot.
        Correction:  May 25, 1993, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about the pianist Mieczyslaw Horszowski referred to the cellist Janos Starker incorrectly. Mr. Starker is alive and still performing; he presented the premiere of Chou Wen-Chung's Cello Concerto in January at Carnegie Hall.
      