
        Orville E. Beal, who was president of the Prudential Insurance Company in Newark from 1962 until his retirement in 1969, died on Saturday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Florham Park, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Bruce O. Beal. Mr. Beal had fallen at his home on Wednesday, he said.
        While Orville Beal was president, Prudential became the largest insurer in the world in terms of assets, and the second-largest corporation in terms of assets after A.T.& T. When Mr. Beal stepped down, Prudential had assets of more than $26 billion and 57,000 employees in the United States and Canada.
        Mr. Beal was a sales executive for much of his career, but his responsibilities also included advertising and public relations. He began with Prudential as a 17-year-old, $15-a-week clerk in Newark in 1926, became a vice president in 1945, a senior vice president in 1947 and an executive vice president in 1957. Seats on Many Boards
        Mr. Beal had sat on the boards of Rutgers University, R. H. Macy and Company, Englehard Minerals and Chemicals, the Englehard Corporation and Prudential. He also served on the National Council of the Boy Scouts, and he was a director of Maher Terminals, based in Jersey City and one of the largest independent container terminal operators.
        Mr. Beal, the son of a Prudential sales agent, was born in southwestern Pennsylvania. He studied at night at Rutgers, earning a bachelor's degree in 1937 and an M.B.A. in 1954.
        His wife of 55 years, the former Jean D. Vivers, died in 1984.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Glen Rock, N.J., Mr. Beal is survived by a daughter, Beverly Staniar of Annapolis, Md.; four grandchildren; five sisters, Grace Blaney of Long Island City, Queens; Joyce Flint of Hemet, Calif.; Thelma Wright of Beaverton, Ore.; Myrtle Burns of Uniontown, Pa.; Ethel Gates of McClellandtown, Pa., and two brothers, Richard of Hemet, and Wayne of Palmyra, Va.
      