
        Jack Gould, a television and radio critic and reporter for The New York Times from 1944 to 1972, died yesterday at the Manor Care Convalescent Home in Concord, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of a gall bladder infection, said his son Lewis.
        A reporter, commentator and critic who at one time supervised a staff of eight, Mr. Gould is widely believed to have been the most influential television critic in the industry's formative years. His skeptical, often moralistic reviews and news analyses led others in the industry to label him "the conscience of the industry," a term that always made the no-nonsense Mr. Gould wince, said Richard F. Shepard, formerly one of his colleagues in The Times's television department.
        Nevertheless, network executives through the years admitted that their spines were stiffened by Mr. Gould's applause for such worthy cultural shows as "Omnibus" and broadcasts like Edward R. Murrow's indictment of Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy and the 1971 "Selling of the Pentagon" by Peter Davis.
        The many honors Mr. Gould received included a George Polk memorial award in 1953, a Page One Award in 1953, and a Peabody Award in 1957, which cited his "fairness, objectivity and authority" as a critic. Present at an Industry's Birth
        John Ludlow Gould was born in New York City on Feb. 5, 1914, the son of John W. Gould and Evelyn Fisk Gould. Educated at the Loomis School in New York City, he went to work at The New York Herald Tribune in 1932 as a copy boy. After joining the drama department of The Times in 1937, he wrote about plays, films and night clubs, and covered the radio industry in the early 1940's. He became radio critic in 1944, and the radio and television reporter, editor and critic later in the decade.
        Mr. Gould tuned in to the world of television from his home on Long Island Sound in Old Greenwich, Conn., in an office armed with a shortwave radio, two telephones, a small black book of unlisted telephone numbers, and a typewriter.
        An assiduous reporter, he was not only interested in the esthetics of television, but also deeply informed on the business, advertising and technical aspects of the medium. He enjoyed working on television sets with a soldering iron at a time when amateurs could still improve their reception by tinkering with aerials and console innards. Shaming the Networks
        He broke one exclusive story after another, on quiz-show scandals, station licensing, Nielsen ratings coups, plans for new shows and sponsors' timidity. When he arrived in the office with a big story, he would say, "The roof is falling in," and proceed to hammer out his exclusive.
        Although he was listed in the Social Register, thanks to his family's prominence, Mr. Gould was usually dressed informally. (Some said sloppily.) He customarily sat in a halo of smoke in his tiny critic's cubicle, ringed by cigarette butts as he pounded out his columns.
        Mr. Gould often said his finest hour was his criticism during the Suez Crisis in 1956. He excoriated the networks for running game shows instead of broadcasting the United Nations Security Council proceedings live. Subsequently the networks put the proceedings on the air.
        In addition, Mr. Gould recognized that the results of computerized polling were front-page news and kept after the networks to compete to present early election returns. Later, he criticized the networks for taking the surprise out of elections when the polling became ever more elaborate and expensive. Setting Ethical Standards
        Mr. Gould could also aim his astringent comments at his profession. In the wake of his reporting and criticism on the 1950's quiz-show scandals, Mr. Gould attacked members of the print press for hypocrisy in accepting Christmas gifts and other benefits from news sources. As a result, conflict-of-interest guidelines were strengthened at several news organizations.
        Although Mr. Gould could be generous in his support of broadcasters like Murrow, whom he praised for his "Harvest of Shame" documentary on migrant workers, he later criticized Murrow when, as director of the United States Information Agency, he tried to kill a BBC broadcast of his own documentary.
        As a critic, however, Mr. Gould wasn't always prescient. He ridiculed the debut of the "Today" show, and was less than enthusiastic about the premieres of such television classics as "Playhouse 90," "The Defenders" and "The Seven Lively Arts."
        "In politics, his views were generally those of an unashamed liberal, always riding his horse into combat somewhere," said Mr. Shepard, who was a Times television reporter from 1955 to 1963.
        Early in the 1960's, Mr. Gould left The Times to become a television executive at CBS. Soon he was telling his friends that he was uncomfortable working within the industry that he had covered so critically for so long. Subsequently he was back in his old job at the paper.
        Mr. Gould retired from The Times in 1972 to move to California. Fred W. Friendly, who served as both adversary, source and colleague at CBS, said at the time that Mr. Gould "was the great equalizer" who fought against the mindless mass-culture aspects of television, and praised him as "the conscience of an industry that too often could not find its own."
        Mr. Gould's wife, the former Carmen Letitia Lewis, died in 1991. In addition to his son Lewis, of Austin, Tex., he is survived by two other sons, Richard, of Berkeley, Calif., and Robert, of Kansas City, Mo., and three grandchildren.
      