
        Julio Gallo, who helped to build the immense E.& J. Gallo Winery and in the process helped change Americans' drinking tastes, was killed Sunday afternoon when a vehicle he was driving veered off a dirt road on a family ranch near Tracy, Calif., about 80 miles east of San Francisco. He was 83.
        Mr. Gallo, the longtime president of the company, which is one of the world's largest winemakers, was driving the vehicle, The Modesto Bee, a California newspaper, reported yesterday. He was flown by helicopter to Memorial Medical Center in Modesto, where he was declared dead on arrival. According to the Stanislaus County coroner, he died of a cervical spine fracture and partial dislocation caused by blunt-force trauma. Family Injured
        Mr. Gallo's wife, Aileen, and two granddaughters were in the vehicle, a Jeep Wrangler, which plunged 35 feet down an embankment and into a shallow pond, an officer of the Tracy rural fire department said.
        Mrs. Gallo, who is 80, and Gina Gallo, 26, were injured in the accident and were taken to Eden Hospital in Castro Valley, where Mrs. Gallo was treated for a fractured sternum and rib and Gina Gallo for fractured ribs. Both were reported to be in satisfactory condition and were released yesterday. The other granddaughter, Amie Gallo, 22, was not hospitalized.
        Mr. Gallo and his brother Ernest -- his elder by one year and the chairman of the privately held winery, based in Modesto -- each amassed a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Fortune magazine reported late last year that the two men owned the entire winery business and that their combined wealth was $1.3 billion.
        Jon Fredrikson, a wine industry economist based in San Francisco, said yesterday that the $1.3 billion estimate was plausible. But some wine industry executives in central California estimated, after Mr. Gallo's death, that he and his brother each had assets of only about $300 million.
        The Gallo business has annual revenue of about $1 billion. It sells an estimated 150 million gallons of wine a year and claims roughly 26 percent of the United States wine market. It markets 16 brands of wine, of which 7 are among the 20 top sellers in the country.
        From his desk at the company's headquarters, the amiable Julio Gallo oversaw the buying of the grapes and the making of the wine, remaining active and touring vineyards regularly until his death.
        His brother created the company in its mammoth form, oversaw sales and was the driving force. According to wine industry analysts, Julio Gallo was partly responsible for the company's growth and its role in increasing wine consumption by Americans after World War II.
        In 1983, the wine critic for The New York Times, Frank J. Prial, said, "The Gallos' influence has been enormous -- and far more positive and benevolent than most people think."
        But the company has had its troubles. It signed a consent decree in 1976 with the Federal Trade Commission to stop pressuring its wholesalers; the order was rescinded in 1983.
        The winery was also boycotted for five years in the 1970's by the United Farm Workers in a dispute over worker representation.
        In 1986, the Gallo winery sued Ernest and Julio Gallo's younger brother, Joseph, who had earlier managed vineyards for his brothers. The suit involved accusations of trademark infringement related to Joseph's opening of a cheese factory near his home in Livingston, Calif., using the family name. Legal documents and depositions in the case gave the public a rare look inside the business.
        Eventually, the winery prevailed in its litigation with Joseph, who was barred by a court from using the family name in business.
        Documents from the litigation and other data were the basis for a recent book, "Blood and Wine: the Unauthorized Story of the Gallo Wine Empire" (Simon & Schuster), which chronicled the family's rise and Joseph's counter-contention that Julio and Ernest had cheated him of one-third ownership in the business.
        The author, Ellen Hawkes, recounted how the brothers' father, Joseph Gallo Sr., also known as Giuseppe, was a pubkeeper who entered grape-growing when Prohibition began, and went on to become a large-scale provider of wine grapes to the eastern United States, where home winemakers were legally permitted to make 200 gallons of wine a year during Prohibition.
        Ms. Hawkes contended that Joseph Gallo Sr. shot his wife, Susie, to death and then turned the weapon on himself. The deaths were ruled a murder-suicide by the police, but the author reported that the motive was never known.
        She argued that it was the elder Mr. Gallo who founded the Gallo Wine Company, in 1909, and that Ernest and Julio simply continued the business. The company's official history, however, said the two sons founded the company outright. It said the two were untutored in winemaking when their parents died and had to learn the art from a booklet they found in a library. A Matter of Pride
        The company grew primarily because of the popularity of Gallo's inexpensive wines. The company's success was a matter of fervent pride for both Julio and Ernest Gallo. Fred T. Franzia, a nephew of Ernest who became the president of the Bronco Wine Company, a small rival, once said: "They want to go out being known as the greatest winemakers, as well as the greatest wine marketers."
        The bespectacled Julio Gallo was in charge of orchestrating the wines' tastes and controlling production costs. He and his staff got the grapes largely from California growers who had signed long-term contracts with the company.
        Under his guidance, the wine business was a technology innovator. It pioneered the use of stainless-steel winemaking vats and computers for wine blending.
        Although most of the Gallo wine output is unpretentious, a Gallo vice president, Charles Crawford, once said that when Mr. Gallo began making a premium-quality Chardonnay -- which was introduced in 1981 -- he was so discriminating that half the crushed grapes were rejected.
        Mr. Gallo was largely responsible for the company's longtime refusal to turn out vintage wines -- those made from grapes grown in a single winemaking year, or vintage.
        But the Gallo brothers eventually broadened their range of products and began producing, and energetically marketing, varietal and vintage wines, which have greater appeal to sophisticated wine drinkers. In the 1970's the company built a 200-yard-long subterranean complex for aging the varietals. It was furnished with more than 600 oak wine-aging casks, each with a capacity of 4,000 gallons.
        While overseeing such wide-scale operations, Mr. Gallo did not stint on research, and the company prides itself on employing platoons of chemists and viniculturists. Aggressive product research has enabled the company over the years to introduce successful and relatively inexpensive products like Thunderbird, Ripple, Spanada and Boone's Farm for the mass market
        In so doing, the company incurred widespread criticism for appealing to minority groups with some wines that were generally perceived as cheap and meant for drinkers who were interested in the alcohol's effect, not in the wine's savor. Thunderbird, Ripple and other inexpensive wines with relatively high alcohol content are often referred to in the wine industry as street wines.
        In recent years, the Gallo business has broadened its market by promoting its midpriced wines and its Bartles & Jaymes wine coolers.
        Another problem for the company has been that growth in the consumption of wine in the United States has slowed, except in the premium wine category. People are drinking less wine, but drinking wine of higher quality, industry analysts report.
        The Gallo brothers, seeing sales of some of their traditional wine categories dwindle, began making a major effort to shift their production into premium wine categories.
        With that goal in mind, Julio Gallo was highly active in his last years in the company's vast program to develop new vineyards, mostly in premium grape-growing regions in Sonoma County in northern California.
        Mr. Gallo was born March 21, 1910, in Oakland, Calif., grew up outside Modesto and was graduated in 1929 from Modesto High School. In his early years, he labored in a vineyard near Modesto that belonged to his father, an immigrant from the Piedmont region, in north and northwestern Italy, which also has a wine industry.
        In addition to his wife and the two granddaughters, Julio Gallo is survived by a son, Robert J. of Modesto; a daughter, Susan Coleman, and numerous other grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      