
        Louis A. Grant, vice president of the board of Gay Men's Health Crisis and a former assistant dean at Columbia College, died on Saturday at his home in Hillburn, N.Y. He was 52.
        He died of AIDS-related complications, said Jeff Soref, board president of the AIDS service organization. Mr. Soref said Mr. Grant had lived for more than 11 years after developing AIDS symptoms.
        As a longtime volunteer, client and, since 1989, member of the board of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, Mr. Grant applied political activism to the struggle against AIDS. Speaking out at AIDS walks and meetings with Washington officials and school assemblies, he advocated better health care for people with AIDS, particularly poor people and racial and ethnic minorities.
        "I've had to make a commitment to live," Mr. Grant said in a 1990 interview. He explained that he had adopted a diet that he believed strengthened his immune system and had entered an experimental drug program.  Assistant Dean at Columbia
        Until his death, Mr. Grant was a freelance management consultant. He served as associate director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, responsible for financial management, in 1989 and 1990. Earlier, he was deputy director for finance and administration at the Youth Action Program of the East Harlem Block Nursery Inc.
        Mr. Grant was assistant dean of students at Columbia College from 1975 to 1980. He directed freshmen orientation, supervision and advisory programs, served as counselor and adviser and supervised the preparation of the Student Handbook and the Guide to Freshmen Studies.
        A graduate of the New School for Social Research, he did postgraduate work in history and African art and religion at Harvard from 1971 to 1973 and received a master's degree from Dartmouth College in 1974.
        From 1968 to 1974, he was an administrator and history teacher at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., Then in 1982 and 1983, he was head of the history department and an assistant librarian at Friends Central School in Philadelphia.
        Survivng are his mother, Melba Grant, and a nephew, Cletus Garner, both of Hillburn.
      