
        Kimon Friar, a prolific American scholar, poet, critic and translator of modern Greek literature, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Athens. He was 81 years old and had made his home in Athens off and on since the 1960's.
        The cause was complications from head injuries suffered in a fall at his home, said Michael Tobias, a friend in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Friar, whose first name is pronounced KEY-mon, won high praise for his many translations of Nikos Kazantzakis. The Greek author is best known in the United States as the creator of Zorba the Greek. Mr. Friar was the highly acclaimed translator of the author's magnum opus, "The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel" (Simon & Schuster, 1958).
        A monumental epic poem, it was an extension of the Greek classic and Kazantzakis's deliberate challenge to Homer. It appeared in Greece in 1938 and Mr. Friar first saw it in 1949. He and the author then spent four years going over practically every word in its 33,333 lines, and thus Mr. Friar considered it a collaboration rather than just a translation.
        Mr. Friar also contributed an introduction, a synopsis and notes. The translation became a Book of the Month, Book Find Club and Seven Arts Club selection.
        His skillful English renditions in "The Sovereign Sun: The Selected Poems of Odysseus Elytis" (Temple University Press, 1974) helped to persuade the Nobel Prize jury to honor Mr. Elytis with the prize for literature in 1979.
        Mr. Friar, of Greek descent, was born in Imrali, Turkey, and came to the United States in 1915 as a 4-year-old. He attended the Art Institute of Chicago and Yale University, graduated from the University of Wisconsin and earned a master's degree at the University of Michigan. He taught at Adelphi University and Amherst College in the 1940's, at New York University and the University of Minnesota in the 1950's.
        Over the years, he lectured at the University of California at Berkeley, and many other institutions in this country, Greece and South America. He had weekly radio programs on prose and poetry in the Midwest, directed theater productions, wrote poetry and essays like one on "A Vision," by William Butler Yeats, for which he won one of his many awards.
        Oddly, he had an immigrant's problem with the English language until well into high school. Only when he read Keats's "Ode on a Grecian Urn" did he become fascinated with the language. He studied the poet's work and came to identify with him.
        With his friend John Malcolm Brinnin, he wrote "Modern Poetry, American and British," which is used in English classes at many colleges. He was also the author of "Modern Greek Poetry, From Cavafis to Elytis" (Simon & Schuster, 1973).
        Mr. Friar is survived by a brother, Dino of Chicago.
      