
        Michael Gordon, a stage and screen director whose gift for light comedy was unaffected by his being blacklisted in the 1950's, died on April 29 at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        Mr. Gordon died of natural causes, said his daughter Jane Gordon of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Gordon was born in Baltimore and attended Johns Hopkins University and Yale Drama School. As a member of the Group Theater from 1935 to 1940, he participated in several acclaimed productions, including "Waiting for Lefty," "Golden Boy," "Awake and Sing" and "Johnny Johnson."
        He moved to Hollywood in 1940 and directed a few B movies, but he did not attract attention until he returned to New York to direct stage productions in the mid-1940's. They included "The Home of the Brave," "Laura" and "The Gods Sit Back."
        These successes led him back to Hollywood and the movies. He won praise for "Another Part of the Forest," "I Can Get It for You Wholesale," and "Cyrano de Bergerac," for which Jose Ferrer won an Academy Award in 1951 as best actor.
        In 1951, the directors Edward Dmytryk and Frank W. Tuttle told the House Committee on Un-American Activities that Mr. Gordon had been a member of the Communist Party.
        Later that year, Mr. Gordon cited the Fifth Amendment and refused to tell the committee whether he was or ever had been a party member, whereupon he was blacklisted in Hollywood.
        He took his family back to New York, and over the next eight years he directed 11 Broadway productions, including "The Male Animal," "His and Hers" and "The Tender Trap."
        In 1959, the success of "The Tender Trap" helped persuade the management of Universal International studios in Hollywood to take a chance and hire Mr. Gordon to direct "Pillow Talk," which starred Rock Hudson and Doris Day. It was the first pairing of the two in what was to be a series of successful romantic comedies.
        "Pillow Talk" became a popular sensation that also charmed the critics. Writing in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther called it "one of the most lively and up-to-date comedy-romances of the year."
        Deluged with offers from almost every major Hollywood studio, Mr. Gordon directed a string of fluffy comedies, including "Boys' Night Out," "Move Over, Darling," "Texas Across the River," and "The Impossible Years."
        In 1971, he joined the theater department of the University of California at Los Angeles and quickly became a professor. He retired in 1990.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Gordon is survived by a son, Jon, of Los Angeles; another daughter, Susannah of Boston, and three grandsons.
      