
        Irving Howe, the literary critic and founding editor of Dissent magazine, who spent a lifetime advancing the cause of humane, democratic socialism, died early yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 72.
        The cause was cardiovascular disease, the hospital said. Mr. Howe had collapsed at his home in Manhattan.
        He was an emblematic New York Jewish intellectual, a man of modest origins who rose to pre-eminence in the serious study of ideas, literature and politics. He was known for many things, including a large, steady output of essays on culture and literature, the advocacy of democratic socialism and chronicling the Jewish experience in America. National Book Award Winner
        Perhaps his most famous and widely read book was "World of Our Fathers," a history of Eastern European immigration to the United States that won the National Book Award in 1976.
        Dissent, the magazine he founded and edited for nearly four decades, was for most of that time a leading journal of a certain kind of American politics.  It was deeply critical of the abuses of capitalism and what its writers sometimes saw as the paranoia of this country, but it was even more repelled by leftist totalitarianism, in the Soviet Union, Cuba or elsewhere.
        "Howe was always a counterpuncher who tended to dissent from the prevailing orthodoxy of the moment, whether left or right, though he himself was certainly a man of the left," said Morris Dickstein, professor of English at Queens College and the CUNY Graduate Center. "Whatever way the herd was going, he went in the opposite direction." A Target of Conservatives
        Mr. Howe was persistently attacked for his lifelong commitment to socialism by conservatives, including many Jewish neo-conservatives grouped around Dissent's rival magazine, Commentary. He also quarreled famously with the leading figures of the New Left in the early 1960's and was reviled by many of the student radicals of that era.
        "He lived in three worlds, literary, political and Jewish, and he watched all of them change almost beyond recognition," said Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic and a friend of Mr. Howe for 20 years.
        "He saw the end of socialism. He saw literature be mauled by second-rate deconstructionists and third-rate sociologists of race, class and gender. And he saw the world of Yiddish disappear."
        "But he never surrendered to nostalgia," Mr. Wieseltier said. "He remained almost diabolically engaged with the politics and the culture of his time."  Wrote Critical Studies
        Among Mr. Howe's influential books are "'Decline of the New," "Politics and the Novel" and an autobiography, "A Margin of Hope," published in 1982.  He wrote critical studies of William Faulkner and Sherwood Anderson and a biography of Leon Trotsky, the Russian revolutionary who was one of his childhood heroes.
        Mr. Howe, a tall man with wispy white hair who loved vigorous conversation above all things, had many highly developed interests.
        For many years he was a Distinguished Professor of English at the City University of New York, where he was famous for passionate lectures on literature. He could be abrupt and flinty when confronted with what he regarded as stupidity or sanctimoniousness. The story is told, for example, of his response when a woman, attending a lecture he gave on "The World of Our Fathers," criticized him for not titling the book "World of Our Fathers and Our Mothers."
        " 'World of Our Fathers' is a title," Mr. Howe responded testily. " 'World of Our Fathers and Our Mothers' is a speech." The Fate of a Radical
        Or the time in the 1960's at Stanford University when he was harassed by a student radical, among the many who felt that Mr. Howe, lacking in his commitment to "the revolution," had become a lackey of the status quo. Mr. Howe turned to the student and said: "You know what you're going to be?  You're going to be a dentist."
        "There is utopia and utopia," Mr. Howe once wrote. "The kind imposed by an elite in the name of a historical imperative -- that utopia is hell. It must lead to terror and then, terror exhausted, to cynicism and torpor."
        "But surely there is another utopia," he continued. "It cannot be willed either into existence or out of sight, it speaks for our sense of what may yet be."
        He was a bon vivant. He married three times. He loved the ballet and classical music and going to parties.  Last of a Breed
        Above all perhaps, Mr. Howe was among the last of a breed of public intellectuals. Like his socialist colleague, Michael Harrington, or his intellectual and political rivals Norman Podhoretz and Irving Kristol, Mr. Howe could express learned, rigorous opinions on many subjects.
        He honed his skills and his ideas in the lunchroom alcoves of City College in the late 1930's, debating socialism and Stalinism, fascism, Tolstoy and the meaning of Judaism.
        "Part of what he embodied is the notion of being a serious intellectual who was both political and literary," said Paul Berman, a writer and contributor to Dissent. "It's not that he had two careers, but that he lived a life informed by the ideal of being as serious as you could be, both about culture and about politics, and his idea of socialism was rooted in the old idea that socialism was itself an expression of high culture."  A Bronxian Tangle of Poverty
        Irving Howe was born on June 11, 1920, in the East Bronx, a community, he said in his autobiography, that "formed a thick tangle of streets crammed with Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe, almost all of them poor." His father ran a grocery store that failed, then worked as a peddler and finally a presser in a dress factory. His mother also worked in the dress trade as an operator.
        It was a world of close families and of Depression-era economic insecurity, but also of occasional trips to Yankee Stadium to see Babe Ruth ("the greatest man in the Bronx") play.
        And it was a world of radical politics.  The young Irving Howe became, he said, a socialist at the age of 14, socialism for the Jews of the Bronx being "an encompassing culture, a style of perceiving and judging."
        Except for a few years as an ardent follower of Trotskyism, Mr. Howe remained attached to socialism for the rest of his life. Like many upwardly mobile children of immigrants, he went to City College, where, he wrote in his autobiography, he spent more time talking with fellow students in the cafeteria than he did in class. The Army, Then Book Reviews
        He graduated in 1940, just in time to spend four years in the Army, two of those years at a remote camp in Alaska where he was able to do a lot of reading. When he returned to the Bronx, he began writing book reviews and essays in the small intellectual magazines of the time, including Commentary, The Nation and Partisan Review. For four years, he earned a living writing book reviews for Time magazine.
        In 1953, he was invited to teach English at Brandeis University outside Boston, thus beginning a career that would take him to Stanford and Hunter College before he settled down for a quarter of a century at City University.  In 1954, he and a group of close friends founded Dissent, which became a leading journal of what Mr. Howe called "the moderate left." He published Andrei Sinyavsky's famous essay "On Socialist Realism," one of the opening salvos of the Soviet dissident movement. He published the black writer Richard Wright, and Norman Mailer's famous essay "The White Negro." A Discovery: I. B. Singer
        Also in the 1950's Mr. Howe met a Yiddish poet named Eliezer Greenberg and the two began a long project to translate Yiddish prose and poetry into English, eventually publishing six collections of stories, essays and poems.  His greatest discovery came when Mr. Greenberg started reading "Gimpel the Fool," a story by Isaac Bashevis Singer, at that time almost entirely unknown to all but the readers of the Yiddish language newspaper The Forward.
        "It was a transforming moment," Mr. Howe recalled later. "How often does a critic encounter a major new writer?"
        Mr. Howe persuaded Saul Bellow, who had not yet achieved fame himself, to translate the story, which was published in Partisan Review, thereby beginning Singer's climb to literary celebrity among nonreaders of Yiddish. Encountering the New Left
        In 1962, as Mr. Howe recalled in his autobiography, several leading members of the newly formed Students for a Democratic Society, seeing in Mr. Howe a potential elder statesman of their movement, visited the offices of Dissent. It was an ill-fated encounter.
        Mr. Howe and others of his generation saw in the New Left tendencies toward violence, irrationalism, petulance and intolerance, impulses that they associated with earlier utopias of the sorts that had come to no good in the Soviet Union. Mr. Howe became a leading critic of the student radicals, even predicting in a much-noted article in the New York Times Magazine in 1970 that "the first and mildest consequence" of leftist terrorism in America would be the election of Ronald Reagan to the Presidency.
        Mr. Howe retired from City University in 1986, but continued to give speeches and to write essays for Dissent. His health had been deteriorating in recent years.
        He is survived by his wife, Ilana, his children, Nicholas and Nina, and two grandchildren.
      