
        Vincent P. Rao, a retired New York City judge and former assistant United States attorney, died on Tuesday at home in Hawthorne, N.J., at the age of 79.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed Mr. Rao a city magistrate in 1957. Under a judicial reorganization, he became a criminal court judge. He served through 1967, when Mayor John V. Lindsay declined to reappoint him.
        From 1950 to 1953 he was an assistant to United States Attorney Irving H. Saypol in the Southern District. Before and after his government posts, Mr. Rao was a lawyer with a general private practice in Manhattan. He retired seven years ago.
        As a judge, he presided over murder trials and other criminal cases. His family said he once threw out charges against the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. arising from a protest demonstration. Set Bail for Lenny Bruce
        In 1964 Judge Rao released the comedian Lenny Bruce on $1,000 bail when he pleaded not guilty to charges of indecency for speaking obscenities at the Cafe Au Go Go in Greenwich Village. That night Mr. Bruce avoided a second arrest at the coffee house by spelling out instead of pronouncing the forbidden words.
        Mr. Rao was born in Manhattan. He graduated from New York University and Fordham Law School. He was the chairman of the City Bar Association's Conciliation Committee.
        In World War II he served as a first lieutenant in the United States Army's Office of Strategic Services in Europe and Northern Africa. He was a liaison to the Italian underground and won a Bronze Star and other medals. He served again in the Korean War. Later he was the commander of the New York County Veterans of Foreign Wars.
        Mr. Rao was also active as a leader in the Columbus Day Parade.
        After his first wife died, he remarried. His survivors include his wife of nearly 24 years, the former Patricia Feeney; three sons, Edward J., Michael V. and Vincent P., all of Hawthorne; a sister, Nina Mazzeo of Maryland, and two grandchildren.
      