
        Dr. Leo J. Neuringer, a senior scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose research enhanced the medical applications of magnetic imaging technology, died Tuesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        The cause was cancer, M.I.T. said. He retired there last month after 30 years as a staff member of the Francis Bitter National Magnet Laboratory.
        Dr. Neuringer's work with M.R.I. -- the magnetic resonance imaging that creates cross-section snapshots of bodily organs -- found new ways to study the structure and functions of molecules and cells. Technology developed by him is used in cardiac surgery and in treating brain disease, diabetes and cancer. M.R.I.'s provide detailed "pictures" that show soft tissue not seen on X-rays.
        Although Dr. Neuringer was not a faculty member, he was known for inspiring the students who came in touch with him, many of them from Harvard Medical School, the Harvard-M.I.T. Division of Health Sciences and the M.I.T. Department of Nuclear Engineering.
        "There are people in almost all basic magnetic resonance-imaging fields who at one time or another worked with him," said Dr. David Holtzman, a neurologist at Children's Hospital and visiting scientist at the Magnet Laboratory.
        Leo Neuringer was born in Manhattan, graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1957. He founded the Magnet Laboratory's High Field Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Resource in 1974 and its Magnetic Resonance Imaging Facility in 1982, serving as director of both until four years ago.
        Before his retirement in April, he directed an effort to develop instrumentation for the whole-body imaging of patients.
        Dr. Neuringer is survived by his wife, the former Adele Friedman; a son, Larry of Rye, N.Y.; two daughters, Dr. Julia Neuringer-Cohen and Dr. Isabel Neuringer, both of Brookline, Mass.; a sister, Frances Yarmush of Brooklyn; a brother, Irv, of Bethlehem, N.H., and one grandson.
      