
        Robert De Niro, a New York painter whose career spanned more than four decades, died on Monday, his 71st birthday, at his home in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said a family spokeswoman.
        Mr. De Niro, who was the father of the actor Robert De Niro, was born in 1922 in Syracuse. In the late 1930's and early 40's, he studied with the painter Hans Hoffmann and from 1939 to 1941 he attended Black Mountain College in Asheville, N.C. He had his first one-man show in 1946 at Peggy Guggenheim's gallery, Art of This Century, in New York City. In the early 1950's, along with other artists like Larry Rivers and Lester Johnson, he became known for turning the looser paint-handling of Abstract Expressionism to more descriptive ends.  An Arresting Confidence
        Whether in drawing or painting, Mr. De Niro's art was defined by an arresting physical confidence and a quality of natural talent that was widely acknowledged, even by critics who felt that his efforts could sometimes have an unfinished or impatient quality. His subjects derived from traditional realism -- nudes, still lifes and portraits -- and he owed a particular debt to the contour drawings of Matisse. But his images, while legible, relied on a highly abstract repertory of quick dabs, thick swaths and thin washes of paint.
        Throughout his career, Mr. De Niro had regular solo shows in New York; the galleries that represented him included Charles Egan, Poindexter, Zabriskie and Graham Modern, where he had his most recent exhibition, in 1986. His current representative is Salander O'Reilly Galleries. He is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington.
        Mr. De Niro's marriage ended in divorce. In addition to his son, he is survived by his mother, Helen, of Syracuse; a brother, Jack, of Del Ray Beach, Fla.; a sister, Joan Bauder of Southington, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      