
        Samuel Rabin, a judge who served at all three levels of the New York State court system, died yesterday at his home in Floral Park, L.I. He was 87.
        His family said his death followed a brief illness.
        Mr. Rabin was elected to the State Assembly as a Republican from Queens in 1944 on his second try and was re-elected four times. He worked on housing issues and rent control, as well as on education and reapportionment. He was active in the fight against a "black market" in babies for adoption. Elected to Supreme Court
        In 1954 Mr. Rabin was elected to the first of two 14-year terms on the State Supreme Court in Queens. In 1962, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller elevated him to the Appellate Division, Second Judicial Department, and advanced him to Presiding Justice in 1971.
        As head of the Second Department, Justice Rabin was in charge of a court that hears appeals from Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island, Long Island, Westchester County and four counties to the north, making it one of the busiest tribunals in the nation. He also oversaw the work and conduct of all judges in the department.
        In 1974, he was appointed to the Court of Appeals, the state's highest, by Gov. Malcolm Wilson. After the interim, one-year appointment, the Republican Party wanted him to seek a full term, hoping for endorsement from the other parties as well. Instead, Judge Rabin faced Democratic, Conservative and Liberal challengers and bowed out, saying that it would be "inappropriate" for him to run a costly and protracted campaign for a 14-year term when he could serve only another year before mandatory retirement from the court at age 70. Returned to Appellate Court
        Gov. Hugh L. Carey then restored him to the Appellate Division for successive two-year terms until he retired in 1981 at the age of 76. At the time of his death, Judge Rabin was of counsel to the Wall Street law firm of Herzfeld & Rubin.
        He was born in Manhattan, but his family moved to Queens when he was a boy. At Cornell University, he ran with the track and cross-country teams. After graduation, he earned his law degree at New York University in 1928 and went into practice in Jamaica.
        Judge Rabin is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Florence Mittlemann; a son, Robert J., of Syracuse; a daughter, Jane Rabin Stern of Sands Point, L.I.; a sister, Ruth Rubenstein of Eugene, Ore.; a brother, Bernard of Liberty, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      