
        Algernon D. Black, a teacher and the leader emeritus of the New York Society for Ethical Culture, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Rye, N.Y. A resident of Manhattan, he was 92.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Black, a liberal social critic, was the Society's foremost elder statesman. He joined its staff in 1923, the year he graduated magna cum laude from Harvard. By 1934, at the age of 34, he was elected a leader, became executive leader in 1943, chairman of the Board of Leaders in 1945 and senior leader 10 years later.
        He reached emeritus status in 1973, and remained active until about 10 years ago, lecturing, counseling members and performing weddings. Faith Without God
        The Society was founded in New York in 1876 by Dr. Felix Adler as a religion based on ethics rather than creed and theology. Dr. Adler saw a pragmatic faith without God, a belief in the infinite worth of the individual, the centrality of ethical principles and the urgency to redeem the democratic promise by improving the lot of the poor and fighting privilege.
        This, he thought, offered a reasoned approach that reached out to those wanting an attractive alternative to Christianity and Judaism. The society currently has about 20 branches in addition to its New York City headquarters.
        Upon the death of Dr. Adler in 1933, Mr. Black was among those most responsible for translating the movement's message into programs to meet the crises of the Depression. And after World War II, he came to be viewed by many as emblematic of that spirit as he spoke out on social issues like equal housing opportunities or health conditions in Harlem.
        For four decades, he was heard on radio station WQXR in broadcasts of the Society's weekly Sunday meetings from its headquarters on Central Park West. To reach the general public he also had regular programs of commentary on WQXR, WHM, WMCA and WBAI in the 1940's and 1950's.
        He headed or sat on numerous committees, panels and boards concerned with juvenile delinquency, racial discrimination and human rights. In 1966, looking for a chairman of his new Civilian Complaint Review Board for the city's Police Department, Mayor John V. Lindsay turned to Mr. Black. Slapped in School
        Algernon David Black was born in Manhattan to Russian Jewish immigrant parents recently arrived from England. Widowed, his mother, Sonya, worked as a seamstress to keep the family afloat. In public school one day, an assistant principal slapped the boy hard for a minor infraction, knocking him unconscious.
        As a result, his mother sought a scholarship at the Ethical Culture School.
        "It was there," he recalled much later in an interview, "that I discovered the richness of an education designed not to sharpen your claws to get ahead in the world but to help you serve human beings."
        He then worked his way through Harvard waiting on tables before returning to Ethical Culture as a staff member. He took an interest in social issues early in his carer, teaching economics to union officials and working with civil-rights groups.
        He was the author of many articles and five books, including "The People and the Police: The Story of the Civilian Review Board" (McGraw-Hill, 1968), which was re-issued by Greenwood Press in 1976.
        Mr. Black's wife of 60 years, the former Elinor Goldmark, died four years ago. He is survived by three sons, David G. of Manhattan, Peter E. of Syracuse, and Jonathan of Chicago; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      