
        Julio Gallo, who helped to build the immense E.& J. Gallo Winery and in the process helped change Americans' drinking tastes, was killed yesterday when a vehicle he was driving hurtled off a road on the family ranch near Tracy, Calif., about 80 miles east of San Francisco. He was 82.
        Mr. Gallo, the longtime president of the company, which is one of the world's largest winemakers, was thought to be driving the vehicle. He was flown by helicopter to Memorial Medical Center in Modesto, Calif., where he was declared dead on arrival, Elaine Day, a nursing supervisor, said.
        Mr. Gallo's wife, Aileen, and two granddaughters were in the vehicle, a Jeep Wrangler, which plunged 35 feet down an embankment and into a pond, an officer of the Tracy fire department said.
        Mrs. Gallo, who is 80 years old, and Gina Gallo, 26, were injured in the crash and were taken to Eden Hospital in Castro Valley, where Mrs. Gallo was listed in serious condition with a fractured sternum and ribs, and Gina Gallo in fair condition with fractured ribs. The other granddaughter, Amie Gallo, 22, was not hospitalized.
        Mr. Gallo and his brother Ernest -- his elder by one year and the chairman of the privately held winery, based in Modesto, Calif. -- each amassed personal assets of $300 million, by some estimates. In the early 1980's, the Gallo family's net worth was estimated at up to $1.2 billion.
        The Gallo business has annual revenue of about $1 billion. It sells an estimated 150 million gallons of wine a year and claims roughly 26 percent of the United States wine market. It markets 16 brands of wine, of which seven are among the 20 top sellers in the country.
        From his desk at the company's headquarters, the amiable Julio Gallo oversaw the buying of the grapes and the making of the wine. His brother created the company, oversaw sales and was the driving force. According to wine industry analysts, Julio Gallo was partly responsible for the company's growth and its role in increasing the wine consumption by Americans after World War II. Influence Called 'Enormous'
        In 1983, the wine critic for The New York Times, Frank J. Prial, said, "The Gallos' influence has been enormous -- and far more positive and benevolent than most people think."
        But the company has had its troubles. It signed a consent decree in 1976 with the Federal Trade Commission to stop pressuring its wholesalers; the order was rescinded in 1983.
        The winery was also boycotted for five years in the 1970's by the United Farm Workers in a dispute over worker representation.
        In 1986, the Gallo winery sued Ernest and Julio Gallo's younger brother, Joseph, who had earlier managed vineyards for his brothers, for trademark infringement after Joseph had opened a cheese factory near his home in Livingston, Calif., using the family name. Legal documents and depositions in the case gave the public a look inside the business.
        Eventually, the winery prevailed in its litigation with Joseph, who was barred by a court from using the family name in business.
        Documents from the litigation and other data were the basis for a recent book, "Blood and Wine: The Unauthorized Story of the Gallo Wine Empire," which chronicled the family's rise and Joseph's counter-contentions that Julio and Ernest had cheated him of one-third ownership in the business.
        The author, Ellen Hawkes, recounted how the brothers' father, Joseph Gallo Sr., also known as Giuseppe, was a pubkeeper who went into grape-growing when Prohibition began, and went on to become a large-scale provider of wine grapes to the eastern United States, where they were bought by home winemakers who were legally permitted to make 200 gallons of wine a year.
        Ms. Hawkes contended that Joseph Gallo Sr. shot his wife, Susie, to death and then turned the weapon on himself. The deaths were ruled a murder-suicide by the police, but the author reported that the motive was never known.
        She argued that it was the elder Mr. Gallo who founded the Gallo Wine Company, in 1909, and that Ernest and Julio simply continued the business. The company's official history, however, said the two sons were untutored in winemaking when their parents died and had to learn the art from a booklet they found in a library. A Matter of Pride
        The company grew primarily because of the popularity of Gallo's inexpensive wines. The company's success was a matter of fervent pride for both brothers. Fred T. Franzia, a nephew of Ernest Gallo who became the president of the Bronco Wine Company, a small rival, once said: "They want to go out being known as the greatest winemakers, as well as the greatest wine marketers."
        The baldish, bespectacled Julio Gallo was long in charge of orchestrating the wines' tastes and controlling production costs. He and his staff got the grapes largely from California growers who were under long-term contracts to the company.
        Under his guidance, the wine business was a technology innovator. It pioneered the use of stainless-steel winemaking vats and computers for wine blending. Vertical Blending
        Mr. Gallo exulted in what the wine industry calls vertical blending -- combining wine produced in one year with wine made in one or two others.
        Although most Gallo wines were unpretentious, a Gallo vice president, Charles Crawford, said that when Mr. Gallo began making a premium-quality white Chardonnay -- which was introduced in 1981 -- he was so discriminating that half the crushed grapes were rejected.
        Mr. Gallo was largely responsible for the company's longtime refusal to turn out vintage wines -- those made from grapes grown in a single winemaking year, or vintage.
        That refusal had disadvantages, some wine experts argued. A wine critic at The Times wrote in 1982: "Though the Gallo wines are consistent, they are rarely able to match the bottlings of numerous other producers in quality or character. Peaks in quality or character, and valleys as well, are generally lost in blending."
        "Julio didn't want to vintage," Mr. Crawford said in an interview in 1981, "because he wants to do the traditional vertical blend. It just hasn't been our tradition to vintage. We don't want to surprise the customer." Varietal Winemaking
        Eventually, the Gallo brothers broadened their range of products and began producing varietal and vintage wines. In the 1970's the company built a 200-yard-long, subterranean complex for aging the varietals. It was furnished with more than 600 oak wine-aging casks, each with a capacity of 4,000 gallons.
        While overseeing such wide-scale operations, Mr. Gallo did not stint on research, and the company prided itself on employing platoons of chemists and viniculturists. Aggressive product research enabled the company to introduce successful products like Thunderbird, Ripple, Spanada and Boone's Farm. In recent years, the business has broadened its market by promoting its midpriced wines and its Bartles & Jaymes wine coolers. Vineyards Studied
        Research was carried out in vineyards as well as in winemaking facilities because, Mr. Gallo liked to say, wine is really made in the vineyard. The vineyard experiments were aimed at finding which grapes grew best in different parts of California.
        Armed with the findings, the company encouraged some contract grape growers to switch to more promising grapes. It did this in part by offering more generous contracts to growers who agreed to change.
        Julio Gallo recalled that in the beginning, he thought the modest-sized shed that he and his brother had rented for their company in 1933 was larger than necessary. And he said he had been sure that customers would complain about one too-young lot of wine that the fledgling company had shipped to the eastern United States not long after going into business.
        But, as he recounted with gusto, one buyer complimented the brothers, saying the wine was unusually good, with "a little bite, for a change." The Company's Growth
        Partly because of its size and power, the company has at times generated criticism and hostility. When wine industry workers struck Gallo and another wine company in 1980, stones were thrown and tires were slashed at a Gallo facility in Fresno, Calif., the company reported.
        In the 1970's, Cesar Chavez led the United Farm Workers into a protracted boycott of Gallo wines after the company signed a contract with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which subsequently won a workers' election that was opposed by the Chavez union. Mr. Chavez died 10 days ago in his sleep at the age of 66.
        In addition to his wife and two granddaughters, Julio Gallo is survived by a son, Robert J. of Modesto; a daughter, Susan Coleman, and numerous other grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      