
        Marvin M. Schwan, who transformed his father's local door-to-door dairy company into a billion-dollar food empire covering 49 states, died on Sunday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 64 and lived in Sioux Falls, S.D.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, a company spokesman said.
        His company, Schwan's Sales Enterprises based in Marshall, Minn., operates an estimated 2,300 computerized vans that deliver frozen food, including meat, vegetables and juices, to customers' homes. The yellow vehicles, bearing a swan logo, have been described as traveling 7-Elevens.
        The company also expanded into the nation's leading supplier of frozen pizza to school cafeterias and grocery stores under the Tony's, Better Baked and Red Baron brands. It also owns the Ram Center robotics company in Red Wing, Minn. 70th Richest American
        Forbes magazine rated Mr. Schwan among America's richest people for the past several years. He ranked No. 70 on last year's list, with an estimated worth exceeding $1 billion. Corporate Report magazine estimated the company's annual revenues at $1.8 billion.
        Mr. Schwan's personal life was reclusive and his company highly secretive.
        The business had humble beginnings. His father, Paul, a Prussian who immigrated to America in 1921, delivered milk in a wagon drawn by a horse. In the 1940's he started his own business and built a dairy. Seeking customers, it found a welcome market by sending trucks along remote routes.
        Marvin Schwan worked his way through Bethany Lutheran College in an ice cream factory and after graduation in 1949 joined the milk bottling operation. He drove trucks himself, soon took over the office side and began running the company in the late 1950's, while his father worked in the plant. The food delivery vans flourished, and the company also became known for its premium ice cream.
        In 1970 it bought Tony's, a pizza business with a small plant in Kansas and annual sales of $600,000. By 1975 Schwan was the nation's top supplier in the frozen pizza industry, and sales had grown to $80 million. The operation cut out middleman wholesalers and employed drivers as sales representatives. By the late 1980's the pizza gross was estimated to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
        Two months ago the company bought Chicago Brothers Frozen Pizza in San Diego.
        Mr. Schwan's first marriage ended in divorce. The Minneapolis Star Tribune said he was survived by a second wife, Delores, three sons, a daughter, two brothers and his mother.
      