
        Leigh Auston Wiener, a photo-journalist whose cameras captured images of the powerful and the famous, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        The cause was complications of a blood disease, said Cliff Dektar, his publicist. Mr. Wiener's doctors attributed the disease, Sweet's syndrome, to radiation Mr. Wiener had been exposed to when he photographed atomic-bomb tests near Las Vegas, Nev., after World War II for Life magazine, Mr. Dektar said.
        Mr. Wiener made his first sale of photographs to Collier's magazine at the age of 14. He formed his own company in 1958 and became known for his innovative use of 35-millimeter film and special equipment that brought the viewer close to an event.
        In 1960 he documented John F. Kennedy's Presidential campaign and, at the Vatican's request, the visit of Pope John Paul II to Los Angeles in 1987. He photographed scores of celebrities from the movies and sports, as well as literati and captains of industry. J. Paul Getty invited him to his English estate for a photo session.
        Mr. Wiener produced nine books, including "Marilyn: A Hollywood Farewell; The Death and Funeral of Marilyn Monroe" (Seven Four One, 1990). Another collection, "Tijuana Sunday" (1989), presented the gory side of bull-fighting, which, he believed, had been unduly romanticized in the writings of Ernest Hemingway and Barnaby Conrad.
        Mr. Wiener was born in Manhattan and attended the University of California at Los Angeles. In the early 1950's he worked for The Los Angeles Times as a staff photographer, then joined the military and worked in Europe on the staff of Stars and Stripes, the Army newspaper.
        As co-host of the television program "Talk About Pictures" he interviewed photographers like Ansel Adams and Alfred Eisenstadt. Another of his television ventures, "A Slice of Sunday," was a football documentary shot with equipment he designed himself. It served as the protoype of the "N.F.L.  Today" program.
        He took special pride in the recent acquisition of three of his photographs -- of Sandy Koufax, Willie Mays and President Kennedy -- by the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.
        Mr. Wiener is survived by his wife, the former Joyce Walker; a son, Devik H., of Los Angeles, and a sister, Maricia Melcombe of Stamford, Conn.
      