
        The Rev. Timothy S. Healy, a Jesuit priest who straddled the religious and secular life in a career that included the presidency of Georgetown University and finally leadership of the New York Public Library, died on Wednesday night after he collapsed at Newark International Airport. He was 69.
        Father Healy was returning from a vacation in Scottsdale, Ariz., when he was stricken. He was taken to Elizabeth General Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead at 11:21 P.M. His death was caused by a heart attack, said Nancy Donner, a spokeswoman for the library.
        In a career that spanned almost 50 years, Father Healy had also been vice chancellor of the City University of New York for academic affairs.
        In 1969, when he accepted the City University post, he found it necessary to explain that he was not controlled by his Jesuit superiors.
        "I am not under discipline to anyone," he said at the time. "I am a priest and as long as I behave myself, I am free to do as I please."
        His appointment to the library presidency in 1988 evoked criticism from some writers who questioned whether a Roman Catholic priest, with his commitment to papal authority, could still uphold the tenets of free speech. Father Healy dismissed the chance of such a conflict arising, but vowed to resign if one did.
        In an interview three months ago, it was evident that the earlier criticism still rankled. "Anti-Catholicism is the one allowable bigotry," he said.
        Told of Father Healy's death, President-elect Bill Clinton, a longtime friend, characterized the priest as "the epitome of the merging of faith and intellect, a walking demonstration that there need be no conflict between the two."
        A graduate of Georgetown and a Rhodes Scholar, Mr. Clinton maintained close ties with Father Healy and, at his request, often met with and counseled the school's Rhodes Scholar nominees.
        A native New Yorker who once had a summer job reshelving books at the main library on Fifth Avenue, Timothy Stafford Healy came from Georgetown to succeed Vartan Gregorian as library president when Dr. Gregorian resigned to become the president of Brown University. He had been widely credited -- by Father Healy, among others -- with bringing the library from near-destitution to robust institutional health during his eight-year tenure. 'A Place of Learning'
        Like Dr. Gregorian, Father Healy came to the New York Public Library from an academic background. The switch made sense, he once said, because "a university is a place of teaching and a library is a place of learning."
        "I grew up in libraries," he once told an interviewer. "I care for them. I understand how they work."
        A man of considerable scholarship -- he received his doctorate from Oxford for his work on the poetry of John Donne -- he was brought to the library more for his fund-raising and lobbying skills. During his 13 years as Georgetown's president he increased the school's endowment from $38 million to nearly $228 million. A five-year fund-raising effort that ended in 1989 raised $178 million, $63 million over the goal.
        He followed the same course at the Public Library. "The endowment was $170 million when I got here," he said last September. "It's $220 million now. I'd love to see it at $300 million or $400 million."
        As president of the New York Public Library, Father Healy was in charge of a system consisting of four research centers, which are owned and operated by a private foundation that must raise money to support them, and 82 branches, which are owned by the city and the state and operated under a city contract.
        Father Healy's enthusiasm for the library was informed by his own life in the city. He recalled his years at the City University with fondness. "Those were heady days," he said shortly before his death, "more fun than a barrel of monkeys. We tackled a lot of problems. We didn't solve them all, but we helped a lot of kids." Born in Manhattan
        Father Healy was born in Manhattan on April 25, 1923. His father, Reginald Stafford Healy, an Australian, came to the United States and Texas to study petroleum engineering after fighting in World War I. "I belong to all the Irish societies," Father Healy once said, "but I'm not Irish. I am probably the linear descendant of an 18th-century sheep thief."
        His mother, Margaret Vaeth Healy, was a schoolteacher in Gainesville, Tex. The family moved to New York, where the elder Healy ran the business side of a small oil company. After the business collapsed in 1929, he took various jobs, his son later recalled, including conducting a children's radio program called "Captain Tim's Stamp Club of the Air" on NBC.
        Timothy Healy joined the Society of Jesus after graduating from Regis High School, a Jesuit school in Manhattan, in 1940. "At first, my parents weren't too enthused about my becoming a priest," he once recalled. "They even bought me a car to test my resolve."
        He earned degrees in English literature and philosophy at a Jesuit seminary in Woodstock, Md., studied theology at the University of Louvain in Belgium and at the University of Valencia in Spain.  Ordained in 1953
        He taught English for several years at Fordham Preparatory School in the Bronx and was ordained a priest in 1953. He earned a master's degree in English literature at Fordham University in 1953 and his doctorate from Oxford in 1965.
        It was at Fordham, like Georgetown a Jesuit institution, that he first impressed his superiors as a potential administrator. He rose through the ranks, becoming executive vice president before he was tapped for the job as vice chancellor of the City University. Father Healy arrived at CUNY in the midst of a controversy over open enrollment, the plan that guaranteed all city high school graduates a place in the university system, regardless of their grades.
        By the time Father Healy left the City University in 1976, minority enrollment had jumped from 5 percent to 30 percent. "It was so simple at CUNY," he later told Time magazine. "There were no agendas, no politicking. Your task was clear: educate the poor. And that's what we did." Extended His Influence
        At Georgetown, Father Healy extended his influence into Washington's uppermost political and social arenas. He was criticized by the right for working to develop academic exchanges with Communist China and for equating the Rev. Jerry Falwell's Moral Majority with the Ku Klux Klan. The left complained when he hired Jeane Kirkpatrick and Henry Kissinger.
        He was criticized for accepting funds from the Government of Libya to endow a chair in Arab studies and was called a "Jesuit Zionist" by a history professor close to the Palestine Liberation Organization when he returned some of the money to Libya.
        On moral issues he could be conservative. He incurred the enmity of gay students when he refused to grant official recognition and a subsidy to their campus organization and he forced the editors of a student newspaper to drop an ad from an abortion referral service. Eventually, the gay students won a discrimination suit and got their recognition.
        After returning to New York to take the post at the library, he went frequently to Washington to urge the Government to take a larger role in supporting the library -- and all libraries. He lobbied Congress to finance a variety of projects included closer liaison with the neglected libraries of Eastern Europe.
        In New York, as in Washington, Father Healy led a divided life. He wore civilian clothes, just as he had done during his years at CUNY, with the occasional addition of some eccentric suspenders, a gift from the designer Bill Blass. He said Mass daily and lived not in the comfortable, three-bedroom apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side provided by the library, but in a smaller hideaway in midtown. Often he stayed at America House, a Jesuit residence at 106 West 56th Street in Manhattan.
        A heavyset man in his later years -- he admitted to being 50 pounds overweight -- Father Healy exuded the energy and bonhomie of a successful corporate executive. He swam almost daily but, in spite of many resolutions, never managed to give up smoking. He had heart surgery in 1983.
        He talked vaguely of retiring in two or three years but was filled with ideas that could have taken him beyond that period. He was particularly concerned about the library's branches. 'I want to see the library serve the poor better," he said last September. "We have this unique outreach. We have 40 branches in neighborhoods where junkies shoot up on the front steps while little kids run in and out with armfuls of books.  We can reach that population. We've got to." A Humorous Nature
        Humor was an integral part of Father Healy's nature. While he insisted there were no moral or philosophical impediments to his running the library, he once acknowledged that there were limits to what a priest could do. "I'd have great difficulty running a racetrack parlor and being a Jesuit," he said.
        Once during his years at vice chancellor at CUNY, a group of classics professors complained that recent budget cuts had demonstrated an insensitivity to their particular discipline. He took it upon himself to reply to them by telegram -- in Latin.
        Father Healy's roles in the religious and secular world often made new acquaintances uneasy; they didn't know what to call him. With students and most laymen he was simply Father Healy. At the library he was known as Dr. Healy. In personal encounters he solved the problem by jutting a hand out before anyone else spoke, smiling and saying: "Tim Healy."
        He talked about getting back to scholarship. In fact, he had never left. He taught a course at Georgetown; this past term he gave a class in the poetry of John Donne and Gerard Manley Hopkins at CUNY. And always he read Virgil -- in Latin. "Virgil," he once said, "is the best anger-reducer there is."
        He is survived by two sisters, Mary Dean Dumais of New York City and Dr. Peggy Beauvois of Knoxville, Tenn., and a brother, David Healy of London.
        A wake will be held at America House tomorrow and Monday from 2 to 5 P.M. and from 7 to 9 P.M. The funeral will be held at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue and 84th Street, Tuesday at 10 A.M.
        Correction:  January 2, 1993, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about the Rev. Timothy S. Healy, the Jesuit priest who was president of the New York Public Library and former president of Georgetown University, misstated the dates of his wake. It will be held tomorrow and Monday -- not today -- from 2 to 5 P.M. and from 7 to 9 P.M., at America House, 106 West 56th Street in Manhattan.
      