
        Will Weng, who for 10 years challenged, confounded, befuddled and thus became beloved by thousands of readers as editor of The New York Times crossword puzzles, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
        He had been suffering from throat cancer and was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday complaining of shortness of breath, said his sister, Damaras Rogers.
        Mr. Weng became The Times's second crossword editor in 1968, when he succeeded Margaret Farrar. He held the job until 1978, when he was succeeded by Eugene T. Maleska. Headed Metropolitan Desk
        Mr. Weng, who was previously a copy editor and served as chief of the metropolitan news copy desk before moving to puzzles, liked to say that one of the reasons he liked editing the word game so much was that he knew that in his era, nobody in top management of the newspaper did crossword puzzles. And so he was relieved of the rebukes that would normally flow from higher-up editors to lower-down editors in the normal review of the paper's content.
        In reality, friends said, he loved the job because it enabled him to engage the reader personally, a pleasure normally enjoyed by writers rather than the people who edit what writers write.
        As a result of his good fortune and his feelings of imperviousness to reproaches from above, Mr. Weng liked to reveal his goofs from time to time so that those who followed his word would feel that he was only incomparable, not perfect. A Dangerous Business
        On one occasion, a puzzle he edited described Nick Etten, a competent but rather obscure first baseman, as a "Yankee Great." To call such a person a "Yankee Great" in New York is a dangerous business and there were letters to Mr. Weng asking how dare he put Mr. Etten in the same dugout with Joe DiMaggio. "Some unsympathetic solvers suggested I was the type of person who could be expected to define Marv Throneberry as a Met Great," he wrote. "Or Marion Davies as a memorable star."
        And then there was the time a typographical error got past him so that the word across -- "deed" got changed to "deep" and the word down came out to be "daybep" instead of "daybed." Mr. Weng, a quiet, gentle man who tried assiduously to avoid confrontation, reported that "several people wrote in to ask just what the hell a daybep was."
        Mr. Weng came to New York from his hometown of Terre Haute, Ind., in 1927, after attending Indiana State Teachers College there. He got a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Journalism and joined The Times in 1930 as a reporter. He soon became an editor and remained an editor until the puzzle job opened up, except during World War II, when he served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy.
        Mr. Weng would receive a dozen or two puzzles from freelancers every week and could be seen studying them, usually puffing away on the cigars that he loved. He selected most of his puzzles from 20 to 30 regular contributors whose work he knew and whose judgment he trusted.
        The evaluation of puzzles is a dense business and the pleasure Mr. Weng derived from his cigars was not enough to make him forget that his chair was uncomfortable. When he retired, he complained that although he had always loved his job, he never had a decent chair at work to sit in.
        But he never permitted his lack of comfort to be visited upon his readers. When he finally retired, a reader wrote to The Times that his departure "was like bidding adieu to a favorite comrade who had suddenly announced that he was leaving town at sundown." She added that Mr. Weng had been many things to her: "Good company on lazy Sunday mornings, the source of fascinating but often useless information, the cause of not infrequent wailing and gnashing of teeth, and the fuse that blew up some friendships." The writer thanked Mr. Weng for "having been my pencil pal."
        In addition to his sister, Mrs. Rogers of Lansing, Mich., Mr. Weng is survived by another sister, Ruth Smith of Morristown, N.J.; two nieces and one nephew, and two great-nieces and two great-nephews.
      