
        Dr. Walter Abbott Wood, a geographer, explorer and past president of the American Geographical Society and the Explorers Club, died on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 and had homes in Palm Beach and Manhattan.
        His family said that death came after a long illness.
        Trained at an early age in mountaineering and Arctic survival, Dr. Wood took part in more than 100 ascents on four continents, scaling the Rockies, the Alps, the Andes and the Himalayas. He was part of a foursome that conquered Mount Steele in 1935. The peak rises to nearly 16,500 feet and is one of the highest and most inaccessible mountains in the Yukon.
        He also led teams in 1939 and 1962 that explored the St. Elias Mountains, an imposing section of the Coast Ranges straddling the Alaska-Yukon border. The first outing mapped the range by aerial photography. The second included a 4,500-mile trek to a base camp 8,500 feet above sea level for long-term studies of the immense region's ice, weather and geography. Escape and Personal Tragedy
        There were narrow escapes and tragedy, too. He and his son Peter were marooned on Malaspina Glacier at Mount Hubbard in 1951 because their supply plane had failed to show up and was declared missing. It turned out that Mr. Wood's first wife, the former Foresta Hodgson, was on that plane, as were their daughter, Valerie, and a veteran Alaska bush pilot.
        After being rescued, the father and son joined the search of the wilderness around the vast Seward Glacier, but the three aboard the missing craft were never found. Foresta Wood had accompanied her husband to Alaska several times as his photographer.
        Dr. Wood was a member of an American expedition that scaled Mount Ararat in Turkey in 1949, looking for evidence of Noah's Ark. They spent 12 days climbing over rugged terrain but found nothing.
        Dr. Wood was born in Hoosick Falls, N.Y., a village near the Vermont border. He studied in this country and in Switzerland and was in the first graduating class of the American Geographical Society's School of Surveying in 1932. He received an honorary doctorate of science from the University of Alaska in 1955.
        His first expedition in 1929 took him on a mapping mission in the Himalayas on the Kashmir-Tibet border. Besides his outings to the Yukon, his destinations in the 1930's included Panama, Guatemala, Mexico and Greenland. In 1937, he led ascents of Shiva Temple and Wotans Throne for a scientific survey of those Arizona mesas.
        Commissioned as an officer in the United States Army Specialist Corps in World War II, he took on various cold-weather assignments in Alaska, Canada and the Aleutian chain. He trained mountain troops and a commando unit in winter warfare and was discharged in 1947 with the rank of colonel.
        In his long association with the American Geographical Society, he worked as director of its exploration and field-research division and was president of the society from 1957 to 1967. The society named him councilor emeritus in 1992. He was president of the Explorers Club in New York from 1967 to 1971.
        Dr. Wood is survived by his wife, the former Renee Menassa, whom he married in 1976; his son, Peter H., of Cross River, N.Y.; six grandchildren; three great-grandchildren, and two stepdaughters.
      