
        Alfred J. Whittle Jr., a retired four-star admiral who was a longtime commander of Navy submarines and went on to develop submarine technology as a civilian, died on Tuesday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 69.
        His son Alfred J. Whittle 3d, a retired Navy commander, said the cause was cancer.
        Admiral Whittle, a 1945 graduate of the Naval Academy, began his 36-year career aboard the destroyer Harry E. Hubbard. He commanded the submarine Sterlet, the nuclear-powered submarine Seawolf and the Polaris missile submarine Andrew Jackson.
        In 1970, Admiral Whittle assumed command of the Submarine Squadron Six, out of Norfolk, Va., and from 1972 to 1974 he commanded the Submarine Flotilla Six, which includes several squadrons, with a homeport in Charleston, S.C.
        He then served in the Office of Naval Operations in Washington, after which he became chief of staff to the Supreme Allied Commander of the Atlantic from 1976 to 1978. Elevated to four-star rank, he served as chief of Naval Materiel until he retired in 1981.  New Career as Civilian
        Afterward, he joined the board of Sippican Inc. of Marion, Mass., a manufacturing company specializing in underwater vehicles for oceanographic and military markets, and took an active part in development. He was also chairman of the Bird Johnson Company of New York, which designs and manufactures marine propulsion systems for military and commercial vessels.
        From 1982 until 1985 he was general manager of Lockheed Advanced Marine Systems at Sunnyvale, Calif., where he was engaged in research and development. He was subsequently a consultant to the Lockheed Corporation.
        Admiral Whittle was founding chairman of the Naval Submarine League in Annandale, Va. in 1982. The league is an educational association that promotes discussion on issues related to submarine warfare.
        Admiral Whittle was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He attended New York University for a year before entering the Naval Academy.
        Besides his son Alfred, who lives in Millersville, Md., survivors include his wife, the former Phyllis King Schneible of Sag Harbor, L.I.; another son, Jeffrey King of Wayland, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      