
        Lieut. Gen. Joseph Smith, a major figure in the Berlin Airlift, died on Wednesday at the Andrews Air Force Base hospital in Maryland. He was 91 and lived at a military-retirement community in Fort Belvoir, Va.
        The cause of death was respiratory heart failure, his family said.
        As an air-transport commander and planner, General Smith also had important roles in the Korean War, the Suez crisis in 1956 and the airlift of 14,000 Hungarian refugees from the uprising in Budapest that year.
        General Smith was born in Scranton, Pa. He graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1923 and was commissioned into the cavalry. In 1928 he completed flight training in Texas and headed the cadet corps at Kelly Field. He flew mail over the Rockies, joined a bomber unit and graduated from the Command and General Staff School. To Cairo With Roosevelt
        By the outbreak of World War II he was on the General Staff of the War Department. As a senior planner in 1943 he accompanied President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Cairo conference to refine Allied strategy. After the war he was sent to Germany and led the Wiesbaden Area Command.
        In June 1948 the Russians cut off all road, rail and water links to West Berlin. The Allies began an airlift of food and fuel, and General Smith was appointed to head the operation to sustain the two million West Berliners. American and British transports landed every few minutes at Tempelhof Field.  On the return runs the planes flew out the products of Berlin's factories. The Russians lifted the blockade in May 1949, six months after General Smith had been reassigned to Washington.
        From 1951 until retiring in 1958 he commanded the Military Air Transport Service, which ferries troops, their families and cargo for the armed forces. He was awarded the Legion of Merit and the Distinguished Service Medal, both with oak-leaf clusters.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Anna Perle Krausse; a daughter, Sandra McKee Smith O'Keefe of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Joseph, of Atlanta, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      