
        Edouard Morot-Sir, a former French diplomat, cultural emissary, author and philosophy teacher, died on Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 83 and had lived in Manhattan since 1957.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Morot-Sir became a familiar figure on American campuses, the New York cultural scene and as a fund-raiser for numerous causes. He served as director of the Fulbright Commission for France from 1953 to 1957 and then, for the next 12 years, as Cultural Counselor of the French Embassy.
        As Cultural Counselor, he worked out of the French cultural office on Fifth Avenue. With a staff of 35, it was one of the largest foreign cultural operations in this country. Coordinating Tours
        Among his duties was to coordinate tours of French music, art and artists, which he did with help from museums, impresarios, lecture bureaus and colleges throughout this country. His imports ranged from the Paris Chamber Orchestra to an exhibition of paintings by Pierre Bonnard at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        His biggest project was the display of the Mona Lisa in 1963. More than a million people saw the painting at the Met before it went on to Washington.
        A native of Autun, France, he fought in the French army in 1940 and was interned as a prisoner. After the war, he earned two advanced degrees, including a doctorate, at the University of Paris, and he taught at the universities of Lille and Bordeaux. For a time he served as head of the philosophy department of the University of Cairo.
        From 1952 to 1956 he contributed to international education as director of the French-American University Exchange Commission. For his services, the French Government conferred its highest commendation on him as a Knight of the Legion of Honor.
        After leaving Government service in 1969, Mr. Morot-Sir taught at the University of Arizona and then, as the Kenon Junior Professor of French Civilization at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he retired in 1979. He wrote a number of philosophical works, including one on Jean-Paul Sartre, and was working on a book about Pascal at the time of his death.
        Mr. Morot-Sir is survived by his wife of 57 years, Jacqueline Le Senne Morot-Sir; a daughter, Catherine H. Morot-Sir Gordan of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      