
        Albert A. Chambers, a retired bishop who rebelled against the decision of the Episcopal authorities to ordain female priests in the 1970's, died Friday at a hospital in Sun City Center, Fla., where he lived. He was 86.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Bishop Chambers headed the Southern Illinois Diocese from 1962 to 1972. Earlier, he served 13 years as the rector of the Church of the Resurrection in Manhattan and held posts in the New York Diocese.
        He was at the forefront of opposition to the ordination of women, which the Episcopal Church approved in 1976. Without permission, he entered dioceses to perform confirmations for dissidents at several churches that seceded over the issue. 'I Can't Look Back'
        "I have no doubts that I have broken the constitution and canon laws," he said then, adding, "Once I've put my hand to the plow, I can't look back."
        In 1977 the House of Bishops adopted a resolution saying it "deplores and repudiates" his actions. Bishop Chambers said: "I have not changed my mind. I will accept your judgment, but I have my vocation to fulfill and I cannot go back on that."
        The next year he consecrated four new bishops in the breakaway Anglican Church of North America.
        A daughter, Sally C. Goldberg, said yesterday that the bishop's actions also reflected his dismay over the rewriting of the traditional prayer book into modern language. Ms. Goldberg said her father later softened on the issue of female priests.
        Bishop Chambers was born in Cleveland. He graduated from Hobart College and General Theological Seminary.
        He served two years as a missionary in western New York State, three years as the canon of St. Paul's Cathedral in Buffalo, six years as the rector of the St. Thomas Church in Neenah-Menasha, Wis., and seven years as the rector of St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Auburn, N.Y.
        In 1949 he moved to the Church of the Resurrection on the Upper East Side. He was the runner-up in elections for assistant bishop in the New York and Long Island dioceses.
        He was married for 42 years to the former Frances Davis, who died in 1976. He remarried, to Janet Snyder Wilson, who died a couple of years ago.
        In addition to Ms. Goldberg, of Columbus, Ohio, his survivors include another daughter, Frances C. Rogers of Nashville; a sister, Eleanor McIntosh of Cleveland, seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      