
        James Benton Parsons, a Federal judge for the Northern District of Illinois since 1961, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 81.
        Judge Parsons died after a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
        After President John F. Kennedy chose him in the summer of 1961, Judge Parsons became the first black appointed to the Federal district bench in the continental United States. He was also the first black to receive a lifetime appointment as a Federal District Court judge.
        By that time, several blacks had served as Federal district judges in the Virgin Islands, but these were fixed-term appointments. One of those judges, William Henry Hastie, went on to become a member of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia.
        Judge Parsons, born in Kansas City, Mo., was the son of a Disciples of Christ minister. He worked his way through Milliken University in Decatur, Ill., earning a bachelor's degree in 1934. He held teaching posts, then served in the Navy during World War II and earned a law degree from the University of Chicago in 1949.
        He then taught law at John Marshall Law School in Chicago, became an assistant corporation counsel for Chicago, a partner in a Chicago law firm and an Assistant United States Attorney for Northern Illinois before becoming, in 1960, a judge of the old Superior Court of Cook County, Ill.
        In one of his notable actions from the Federal bench in later years, he gave jail terms and fines to 47 cardboard-box-manufacturing executives who had pleaded no contest to charges of rigging prices in the industry. He later reduced the prison sentences for 14 of them.
        He retired from trial work in 1992 but continued to perform other functions, like swearing in new citizens, until his health deteriorated.
        His wife of 15 years, the former Amy Margaret Maxwell, died in 1967.
        He is survived by a son, Hans-Dieter Parsons; a sister, Mary Parsons Waters, and a grandson.
      