
        Charles H. Ehlers, a senior executive of W. R. Grace & Company, and his wife, Arlene, died on Friday, when his private plane crashed during takeoff from Martha's Vineyard, Mass. Mr. Ehlers, 62, and his wife, 61, lived in Concord, Mass.
        Joyce Thorne, Mr. Ehlers's executive assistant, also died in the crash. She was 52 and lived in Burlington, Mass.
        Airport officials said they did not know what had caused the crash, which is under investigation by the Federal Aviation Administration. Some witnesses reported seeing flames on the aircraft before it crashed.
        The Ehlerses and Ms. Thorne had been at Martha's Vineyard on vacation and were returning home in Mr. Ehlers's single-engine Cessna Centurion. Mr. Ehlers was the pilot of the six-seater plane, which crashed into woods about a mile from the Dukes County Airport, causing a fire.
        Dr. James Weiner, the Dukes County medical examiner, said the couple had died of smoke inhalation and burns.
        Since 1978, Mr. Ehlers had been a corporate vice president at Grace, which is based in New York. In 1992, he was named president of the company's worldwide container product line, based in Woburn, Mass.
        He started with Grace in 1954 as a sales engineer for the Dewey and Almy Chemical Division in Cambridge, Mass. He was appointed executive vice president for the division's Container and Chemical Specialities in 1971, then president of the division in 1975.
        Mr. Ehlers was born in New York City and graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1952. He completed the Harvard Business School's Advancement Management Program in 1975.
        At his death, he was a director of the Cambridge Trust Company, a member of the board of the Can Manufacturers Institute, and a trustee of the Concord Museum and other institutions.
        A native of Enid, Okla., Mrs. Ehlers graduated from Dana Hall in Wellesley, Mass. A pianist, she played with the Concord Orchestra.
        The Ehlerses are survived by a son, John, of Dallas and a daughter, Christine, of Winchester, Va. Mr. Ehlers is also survived by his mother, Rose, of Concord. Mrs. Ehlers is also survived by two sisters, Willa Jean Schneider and Mary Ellen Lee and two brothers, E. B. Mitchell and J. C. Mitchell, all of Enid.
        Ms. Thorne had been employed by Grace Container Products for 26 years.  She graduated from Cambridge High and Latin in Cambridge and was active in the Union Baptist Church there.
        She is survived by two daughters, Kimberly and Monique, both of Somerville, Mass.; her mother, Evelyn Marsh of Cambridge, and a sister, Maeodis Smith of Boston.
      