
        Joseph F. Talese, who was one of six immigrants honored when Ellis Island reopened as a museum in 1990 and whose assimilation as an American was chronicled in the 1991 best-seller "Unto the Sons," by his son, Gay, died of lymphoma on Wednesday night at his home here. He was 89 years old.
        Trained as an apprentice tailor in his native village of Maida in southern Italy, where his relatives had been tailors for generations, and later an assistant cutter in a shop in Paris that employed an older cousin, Mr. Talese passed through Ellis Island in 1920 in quest of prominence and affluence in the world of male fashion.
        Although he found neither after two years of effort in and around Philadelphia, the tailoring business he founded here in 1922 suddenly thrived after he added a gimmick called the Suit Club. At the cost of $1 a week members printed their names and addresses on small white cards and, after placing the cards in unmarked envelopes, deposited them in a vase on a counter in the shop. As his son recounted in his memoir, Mr. Talese "each Friday night would invite one of the Suit Club members to close his eyes and pick from the vase a single envelope, which would reveal the name of the fortunate winner of a free suit, to be made from fabric selected by that individual." After two fittings, it would be ready for wearing in a week.
        Because up to 300 or 400 people were soon paying $1 each week to partake in the raffle, Mr. Talese was earning on each "free" suit a profit perhaps three times the average cost of a custom-made suit in those days -- to say nothing of the additional money he earned when he enticed a winner into purchasing an extra pair of matching trousers.
        "But," his son wrote, "my father's bonanza was abruptly terminated one day in 1928, when an anonymous complaint sent to City Hall, possibly by a rival tailor, charged that the Suit Club was a form of gambling clearly outlawed under the town charter. And thus ended for all time my father's full-time commitment to the reputable but precarious life of an artist with a needle and thread. My father did not climb down from an impoverished mountain village in southern Italy and forsake the glorious lights of Paris and sail thousands of miles to the more opportunistic shores of America to end up a poor tailor in Ocean City, N.J. So, he diversified."
        He opened in succession a fur-coat remodeling business, a dry-cleaning operation and a women's dress boutique that, in partnership with his wife, he continued for more than 60 years on the main street of this shore resort. He and his wife were in their 80's before selling the business three years ago to the Papagallo firm.
        Also surviving are his wife of 64 years, the former Catherine DiPaola; a daughter, Marian, of Ocean City; a brother, Dominic, of Maida; a sister, Ippolita Pileggi of Rome; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      