
        Zdenek Kopal, an astronomer who was an authority on the Moon and also on the neighboring pairs of stars known as close binaries, died Wednesday at his home in Wilmslow, England. He was 79.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter Zdenka Smith of Boulder, Colo., a research physicist.
        Born in Austria-Hungary in what is now the Czech Republic, Professor Kopal (his name is pronounced ZDAIN-yek ko-paul) founded three journals, including Icarus, an international journal on the solar system, becoming its first editor in 1962. He headed the department of astronomy at the University of Manchester in England from 1951 until his retirement in 1981.
        Earlier he was a research fellow at Harvard Observatory from 1938 to 1940, a research associate in astronomy at Harvard University from 1940 to 1946 and an associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1947 to 1951. Consultant to NASA
        In 1958, as part of a crash effort begun by the United States Air Force to compile a detailed contour map of the Moon, Manchester University scientists led by Professor Kopal joined with scientists at a French observatory and in some other nations in a program of photographing the Moon. As another member of the Manchester astronomy department, Dr. J. E. Dyson, put it last week, Professor Kopal did much to bring about "the lunar mapping essential to the success of lunar flybys and landings" that ensued.
        In 1966, while on leave from Manchester, Professor Kopal was a consultant to Moon-exploring programs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. In the 1950's and 1960's, he was also a consultant to various American companies involved in the United States space program, and an adviser to a United States Army mathematics research center and to various undertakings of the American military.
        Professor Kopal was born in Litomysl, Bohemia, earned his doctorate in astronomy at Prague University in 1937 and studied at Cambridge University and at Harvard.
        He was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than 30 books, the author or co-author of more than 400 journal articles, and a member of the New York Academy of Sciences and the Explorers Club in New York.
        In addition to his daughter Mrs. Smith, Professor Kopal is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Alena Muldner; two other daughters, Georgiana Rudge of San Jose, Calif., and Eva Kopal of Seattle, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      