
        Rabbi Dovid Lifshitz, a chief rabbi in Poland who narrowly escaped the Nazi rise to power and became a leading professor of Talmud in New York, died yesterday at Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 86.
        Rabbi Lifshitz, who lived in Manhattan, died of heart failure, said his daughter Chaya Waxman of Queens.
        A funeral was held yesterday afternoon at Yeshiva's main campus in upper Manhattan, where Rabbi Lifshitz taught at the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary for nearly 50 years. The body was then flown to Jerusalem for burial. A Child Prodigy
        Born in Minsk, Russia, in 1906, Rabbi Lifshitz was recognized at a very young age as an "illui," a child prodigy in Jewish studies. At the age of 12, he coedited a volume of commentary on the Bible.
        After his ordination, he married Tzpora Joselovitz, the daughter of the chief rabbi of Suwalki, a city in Poland. Upon his father-in-law's death in 1933, he took over as chief rabbi, taking care of the physical and spiritual needs of the city's Jews and negotiating on their behalf with the Polish Government.
        He opened a school for advanced Talmudic learning and, when Jewish young men were conscripted into the Polish Army, he tried to provide for their religious needs.
        In 1939, when the war broke out, Rabbi Lifshitz remained in Suwalki to be with his flock. In 1941, on the eve of a Nazi roundup of Jews in the area, he fled with his wife and baby daughter. The daughter was shot and killed during the escape and was buried near Suwalki.
        Even after coming to the United States he retained the title of "Suvalker Rav," or rabbi, serving as the spiritual leader for others from Europe displaced by the war. At his death, he was the president of the Suvalki Benevolent Society in the United States. He also served as president of Ezras Torah, the international relief organization, and on the presidium of the Union of Orthodox Rabbis in the United States and Canada.
        Besides his daughter, Rabbi Lifshitz is survived by his wife and two other daughters, Shulamith Kaminetsky of Jerusalem and Sara Stein of Wickliff, Ohio; 16 grandchildren, and numerous great-grandchildren.
      