
        Prof. William Harrison Riker, a political scientist at the University of Rochester who fused mathematics with political analysis, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospice in Rochester. He was 72 and lived in suburban Brighton.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Professor Riker was the Wilson Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester, where he taught for more than 30 years. He reached emeritus status in 1991 but continued with an active schedule of teaching, advising students, writing and providing new ideas for research projects.
        He was best known for devising his political theory, which used the structured reasoning of mathematical formulas to interpret political events. He constructed a theoretical base for political analysis in the 1950's and 1960's, well ahead of most experts in his field. 'Changed the Discipline'
        "His scholarship changed the discipline of political science forever," said his colleague and friend, Richard F. Fenno Jr., the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Political Science at Rochester.
        Professor Riker's books include "The Theory of Political Coalitions" (Yale University Press, 1962), "Liberalism Against Populism: A Confrontation Between the Theory of Democracy and the Theory of Social Choice" (W. H. Freeman, 1982) and "The Art of Political Manipulation" (Yale, 1986).
        A native of Des Moines, he graduated from De Pauw University and earned a Ph.D. at Harvard University. He began his academic career at Lawrence College (now Lawrence University) in Appleton, Wis., and was a full professor by the time he moved to Rochester in 1962. 11th Book to Be Published
        In Rochester, he was instrumental in building the Department of Political Science into a nationally respected unit. His interests ranged from political bargaining to the Constitutional Convention of 1787. He wrote extensively for professional journals and had just finished his 11th book, "Rhetorical Interaction in the Ratification Campaigns" -- about the debate over the United States Constitution -- which is to be published by Yale University Press.
        Professor Riker is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Mary Elizabeth Lewis; two daughters, Katharine Riker of Portland, Ore., and Mary Paris Riker of Chico, Calif.; a son, William H. Jr. of Providence, R.I., and three grandchildren.
      