
        Dr. Monroe E. Spaght, a research chemist who became president and chairman of the Shell Oil Company, died Sunday while on vacation in the south of France. He was 83 and had been living in London since 1965, when he became the first American managing director of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, Shell's parent.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Spaght, who liked to call himself "just a country boy from Eureka, Calif.," worked his way through college playing the trombone in a dance band. A voracious reader with the urbane demeanor of a diplomat, he was a vocal champion of quality education for young Americans.
        His peers considered him a highly effective executive with top-to-bottom knowledge of the oil industry, acquired during decades with Shell.
        Monroe Edward Spaght (pronounced spate) graduated from Stanford University with a chemistry major; he also earned M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry there. Along the way, he studied physics at Leipzig University in Germany on a fellowship. Up the Corporate Ladder
        He joined Shell in 1933 as a researcher and began his climb up the corporate ladder.
        By 1949, he was president of the Shell Development Company, a research affiliate. He became executive vice president of Shell Oil in New York, a new position, in 1953; president in 1961, and chairman four years after that.
        In 1965 he was also named one of seven managing directors of Royal Dutch, based in London. The parent company changed its by-laws on nationality to accommodate him; its top team until then had been made up of four British and three Dutch members. At the time, Royal Dutch Petroleum ran 500 subsidiaries worldwide. Dr. Spaght retired in 1970 but remained a director of Royal Dutch and Shell for 10 more years.
        He is survived by his wife, Joy Garraway Spaght; two sons, Pearson M., of Southport, Conn., and David L., of San Jose, Costa Rica; a daughter, Sarah Spaght Brown, of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      