
        Judge Barrington D. Parker of the Federal District Court in Washington, who presided over the trial of John W. Hinckley Jr., the would-be Presidential assassin, and in other major cases, died on Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from a heart attack and stroke he suffered in 1989, a family spokesman said. Judge Parker lived in Northwest Washington.
        Judge Parker, who was appointed to the bench by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969, was noted for his boldness. "He has no hesitancy in coming forth with unpopular decisions," a longtime friend and fellow Federal judge, Robert L. Carter, once said.
        Until his appointment, Judge Parker, a Republican, practiced law as a partner in the firm of Parker & Parker. He retired from the Federal bench in 1985.
        Judge Parker was born in Rosslyn, Va., on Nov. 17, 1915, the only child of George A. Parker and Maude Daniels Parker. His father was dean of the Terrell Law School in Washington, which has since closed. Judge Parker once taught there. Chicago Law Graduate
        He went to Dunbar High School in Washington, where he met his wife, the former Marjorie Holloman. He graduated in 1936 from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania with a bachelor's degree in economics and, in 1938, he received a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He earned his law degree from the University of Chicago in 1947.
        In a 1973 ruling, Judge Parker barred the Nixon Administration's attempt to impose certain price controls, calling them "arbitrary and capricious." In another case, he ruled against a National Guard attempt to bar long-haired guardsmen from wearing short-cropped wigs when on duty.
        And in 1978, in connection with a merger between the National Student Marketing Company and an insurance holding company, he ruled that Federal securities regulations did not require lawyers to disclose fraud by their clients.
        At the 1982 trial of Mr. Hinckley, the jury found the defendant not guilty by reason of insanity of trying to assassinate President Ronald Reagan after Judge Parker told its members that they had to be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the prosecution had proved the gunman was able to understand the wrongfulness. Ordered Hinckley Committed
        Mr. Hinckley had shot and wounded Mr. Reagan and three other men, including the White House press secretary, James Brady, on March 30, 1981. After the acquittal, Judge Parker ordered Mr. Hinckley committed to a mental hospital.
        When not in judicial robes, the judge liked to read historical fiction -- James Michener was a favorite -- and listen to progressive jazz and classical music.
        In October 1975, Judge Parker was struck by a car while crossing a Washington street, and his left leg had to be amputated.
        Besides his wife, Judge Parker is survived by two sons, Jason Parker of Manhattan, and Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, Conn.; an uncle, Grafton Daniels of Washington, and three granddaughters.
      