
        Robert J. Klein, a founding editor of Money magazine and a consumer advocate, died on Thursday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 66 and had homes in Manhattan and Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Mr. Klein died of cancer, a news release from the magazine said.
        A senior editor at Money since its inception in 1972, Mr. Klein shaped the magazine's coverage of banking, credit services and insurance funds, the news release said. He was also the editor of "The Money Book of Money" (Little, Brown, 1987), an anthology of the magazine's best articles on financial advice.
        Mr. Klein retired from Money in 1988 and became a partner in Novos Planning Associates of New York, building a new career as a financial planner.
        Born on April 9, 1927, in Newark, Mr. Klein served in the Navy from 1945 to 1947, at the same time studying for a bachelor's degree in history, which he earned from Rutgers University in 1948. He then worked at several newspapers, including The York Gazette and Daily in York, Pa., The Newark News and The Wall Street Journal.
        For the past 10 years, besides his financial planning work, Mr. Klein also wrote a personal finance column for The Scarsdale Inquirer. Adviser on Consumer Matters
        Mr. Klein served as a consumer representative on the Federal Reserve Board's Truth-in-Lending Advisory Committee from the time it was established in 1968 until it became part of the board's Consumer Advisory Council, of which he remained a member until 1980. With his help, the two panels assisted in drafting consumer-protection legislation, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
        In addition, Mr. Klein testified at numerous Congressional hearings on truth in lending and no-fault insurance.
        Mr. Klein is survived by his wife, Elaine; his mother, Celia Klein of East Orange, N.J.; a daughter, Amy Klein of Manhattan, a son, William of Scarsdale, and a sister, Sandra Behrend, of Kendall Park, N.J.
      