
        James Bridges, a writer and director of films who was twice nominated for Academy Awards, died yesterday at the University of California-Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 57 and lived in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles.
        The immediate cause was kidney failure, and he had been suffering from cancer for two and a half years, said Jack Larson, his companion of 35 years.
        Mr. Bridge's most widely appreciated movies, among critics and moviegoers, were "The China Syndrome" (1979), which he wrote and directed, and for which he received an Oscar nomination for best screenplay, and "Urban Cowboy" (1980), which he directed and for which he co-wrote the screenplay with Aaron Latham
        Reviewing "Urban Cowboy" in The New York Times, Vincent Canby wrote that Mr. Bridges "attends to his beer-drinking, appliance-obsessed characters without condescension. He knows how they look, speak, dress and suffer; he measures their thresholds of boredom (very low) and he understands their world so well that 'Urban Cowboy' is not only most entertaining but also first-rate social criticism." The film is set in a Houston honky-tonk.
        Mr. Bridges received his other Oscar nomination, also for best screenplay, for "The Paper Chase" (1973), which he also directed. And his 1978 film "9/30/55," also known as "September 30 1955," (1978), abut the day of James Dean's death, which he also wrote and directed, has a small but ardent following.
        Mr. Bridges' style was realistic and subtle. He was skilled at getting actors to bring out nuances of their roles. Mr. Latham said yesterday, "He had been an actor and so empathized with the actors in his films."
        Mr. Bridges was born in Little Rock, Ark., and attended Arkansas State Teachers' College. He then went to Los Angeles to work in the theater and in films.
        In addition to Mr. Larson, a playwright and opera librettist, Mr. Bridges is survived by his mother, Celestine Wiggins, and a sister, Mary Ann Wiggins, both of Paris, Ark.
      