
        Eugene Clarence Braun-Munk, an international publisher, died in Paris on June 2. He was 58.
        The cause was AIDS, said Page Ashley, a friend.
        Mr. Braun-Munk, born in New York City of mixed Hungarian and German parentage, once told an interviewer he had been raised "between Berlin and Budapest" and jovially called himself "a middle-European cocktail." He spoke fluent French, German and Hungarian, and read Spanish and Italian.
        He was educated at the Bentley School in New York City and the University of Wisconsin.
        In 1961, while general manager of the Paperback Gallery branch at 399 Avenue of the Americas, Mr. Braun-Munk was one of four Greenwich Village booksellers who opened their stores on a Sunday afternoon, seeking a constitutional test of the state Sabbath law and their right to sell books on Sundays. All four were arrested, but soon the charges against them were dismissed because the policeman who served the summonses could not be sure that he had witnessed a book being sold.
        In 1976, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that prohibitions against public sales on Sunday were unconstitutional.
        In 1964, Mr. Braun-Munk moved to Paris as director of Hachette's Librairie Etrangere, which distributes non-French books. Later, through an arrangement with the publishers Editions Stock and Grosset & Dunlap, he became the first French publisher to employ a personal imprint: Collection Eugene Clarence Braun-Munk.
        Under this imprint, he published many well-known American authors in French translation, including James Baldwin, Henry Miller and Carson McCullers.
        He also published French translations of the memoirs of Rose Kennedy, Gloria Swanson and Lauren Bacall.
        The first book under his personal imprint was "The Merry Month of May," James Jones's novel based on the student uprising in France in 1968. The French translation came out in 1971 and was dedicated to Mr. Braun-Munk. His greatest commercial success was Norman Mailer's "Marilyn," which sold 35,000 copies.
      