
        James Bridges, a film director and writer who was twice nominated for Academy Awards, died on Sunday at the University of California-Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 57 and lived in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles.
        The immediate cause was kidney failure, and he had been suffering from cancer for two and a half years, said Jack Larson, his companion of 35 years.
        Mr. Bridges's most widely appreciated movies, among critics and moviegoers, were "The China Syndrome" (1979), which he directed and co-wrote, and which received an Oscar nomination for best screenplay, and "Urban Cowboy" (1980), which he directed and wrote with Aaron Latham. An Empathy With Actors
        Reviewing "Urban Cowboy" in The New York Times, Vincent Canby wrote that Mr. Bridges "attends to his beer-drinking, appliance-obsessed characters without condescension. He knows how they look, speak, dress and suffer; he measures their thresholds of boredom (very low) and he understands their world so well that 'Urban Cowboy' is not only most entertaining but also first-rate social criticism." The film is set in a Houston honky-tonk.
        Mr. Bridges received his other Oscar nomination, also for best screenplay, for "The Paper Chase" (1973), which he also directed. And his 1978 film "9/ 30/55," sometimes called "September 30, 1955," which he also wrote and directed, has a small but ardent following.
        His style was realistic and subtle. He was skilled at getting actors to bring out nuances of their roles. Mr. Latham said on Sunday, "He had been an actor and so empathized with the actors in his films."
        Mr. Bridges was born in Little Rock, Ark., and grew up in Paris, Ark., in the western part of the state. He attended Arkansas State Teachers College before moving to Los Angeles to work in theater and films.
        He began by acting from time to time in "Dragnet" and other television dramas and also sold ice cream. Before long he landed a minor part in "Johnny Trouble" (1957), Ethel Barrymore's final film.
        Turning to writing for television, he did the scripts for more than a dozen hourlong Alfred Hitchcock shows, one of which, "The Unlocked Window," won him an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America.
        Mr. Bridges also found work as a stage manager, with John Houseman's U.C.L.A. Theater Group, and wrote plays that were performed in the Los Angeles area. A Personal Film
        In 1966, he did his first directing in a Los Angeles staging of a play by Mr. Larson, "The Candied House." In 1972 he was chosen by Tennessee Williams to direct a 25th-anniversary revival of "A Streetcar Named Desire" at the Los Angeles Music Center.
        The first film Mr. Bridges wrote and directed was "The Babymaker" (1970), about a woman who decides to have a baby for a childless couple.
        Then came "The Paper Chase," which starred Lindsay Wagner and Timothy Bottoms as law students, and Mr. Houseman as a crusty professor. It won Mr. Houseman an Oscar as best supporting actor.
        By contrast, Mr. Bridges's next film, "9/30/55," was highly personal, drawing on what he had experienced, as a young, high-strung James Dean fan, on the day his idol died in a car crash. As time passed, Mr. Bridges pondered his hero-worship so intensely that it took him only three weeks to write what another New York Times critic, Janet Maslin, called the "graceful, reflective and often very funny screenplay" for the film.
        Mr. Bridges's last movie, which he wrote and directed, was "Bright Lights, Big City" (1988).
        In addition to Mr. Larson, a playwright and opera librettist, Mr. Bridges is survived by his mother, Celestine Wiggins, and a sister, Mary Ann Wiggins, both of Paris, Ark.
      