
        Vincent B. Copeland, a co-founder of the Workers World Party, former labor officer and a leader of protests against the Vietnam War, died on Monday at his home in Hoboken, N.J. He was 77.
        He had multiple illnesses, his family said.
        After starting as a Broadway actor in the 1930's, Mr. Copeland turned to political and social causes.
        In 1950, 16,000 workers walked out of Bethlehem Steel's Lackawanna, N.Y., plant to protest his dismissal as a welder for leading wildcat strikes.
        As a grievance officer and union newspaper editor, he had opposed the company's practice of denying black furnace workers better jobs by hiring outsiders to fill them. He was not rehired, which he attributed to the union hierarchy's dislike of his opposition to the Korean War.
        In 1959 he helped to organize the Workers World Party, a Marxist-Leninist organization of former members of the Socialist Workers Party and others. He was the founding editor of its weekly newspaper, The Workers World, and remained active until this year.
        In the 1960's he was an officer of the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam.
        He wrote "The Crime of Martin Sostre" (McGraw-Hill, 1970), about a Buffalo bookstore owner who accused the police of framing him on narcotics charges because of his race and radical politics.
        Twice Mr. Copeland's views led to constitutional court cases.
        He was denied a passport for spurning an oath required by law that said he was not a Communist, and he appealed. "I believe that every American citizen has a natural right to travel, regardless of his political or economic views," he said. He won after the United States Supreme Court, in a parallel case, struck down the law in 1964.
        In 1964 he and 16 others appealed disorderly-conduct convictions in the first Vietnam protest case to reach the Supreme Court. Key facts were not clear and the Court let the convictions stand.
        Mr. Copeland was also active in Jersey City issues and edited the Community Voice, a neighborhood newspaper there, from 1985-88.
        His stage career included appearances with Katherine Cornell, Lillian and Dorothy Gish, Ethel Waters and Jose Ferrer.
        He was married for 49 years to Elizabeth Ross, who died in 1989.
        He is survived by two stepchildren, Deirdre Griswold of Weehawken, N.J., and Patrick Thaddeus of Cambridge, Mass.; three sisters, Cynthia Cochran of Manhattan, Audrey Foley of Currie, N.C., and Lois Santos of San Leandro, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      