
        Frank J. Donner, a civil liberties lawyer who was an expert on the use of government surveillance and informers to discourage political dissent, died yesterday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Hamden, Conn.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Donner was director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Project on Political Surveillance since 1980. He also worked with the Center for Constitutional Rights, argued cases before the Supreme Court and wrote books on the House Committee on Un-American Activities and Federal and local surveillance and suppression. Attack on Surveillance Abuses
        In 1980, a book by Mr. Donner called "The Age of Surveillance" was published by Knopf. It called for curbs on surveillance abuses by the Federal Government and cited Government attempts to silence political activities and organizations outside the mainstream of American attitudes.
        His next book, "Protectors of Privilege: Red Squads and Political Repression in Urban America" (University of California, 1990), was a companion work on the role of local law enforcement in thwarting constitutional rights of free expression, assembly and association.
        Warning against the dangers of informers and undercover agents, he told a reporter in 1972, "It's hard to tell those guys to hang your clothes on the hickory limb of involvement but don't go near the water of provocation."
        In 1976 he disclosed that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had planted in its files in 1964 a phony letter in the handwriting style of William Albertson, a leading American Communist. The letter purported to be a report from an informer and asked the F.B.I. for a raise. The ruse worked. Despite Mr. Albertson's denials, the party expelled him as "a stool pigeon for the ruling circles," and he was shunned by old friends.
        Mr. Donner was born in Brooklyn. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Wisconsin and a law degree from Columbia University. Early Days as Lawyer
        His legal career began at the National Labor Relations Board, where he was on the staff from 1940 to 1943. He left that agency to represent prominent labor unions, including the Congress of Industrial Organizations and the United Steel Workers of America.
        When the Government began investigating Communist influence in unions and demanding non-Communist oaths, he represented officers who resisted in court cases, Congressional hearings and before security and loyalty boards.
        Called before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1956, he invoked the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer whether he was a Communist. Later, the committee accused him of being part of an "elite corps" of Communist lawyers promoting subversion, espionage and propaganda. He called the charge "a stupid smear."
        Mr. Donner's first wife, Madeline, died in in 1985.
        Surviving are his wife of seven years, the former Helen Brammal; a daughter, Eleanor Donner of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, Daniel Donner of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Phyllis Miller of Oakland; a brother, David of West Palm Beach, Fla.; three stepdaughters, Deborah Rossitto of Milford, Conn., Peggy Myers of Winthrop, Mass., and Susan Talty of Bricktown, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      