
        Juan Downey, a well-known video artist whose work helped establish his medium as a serious art form, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53 and also had a home in Patchogue, L.I.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marilys.
        Mr. Downey was born in Santiago, Chile, in 1940 and received a bachelor's degree in architecture from the Catholic University of Chile in 1961. He also studied at Stanley Hayter's Atelier 17 in Paris in the mid-1960's and the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn from 1967 to 1969.
        He began his career as a draftsman, printmaker and creator of participatory electronic sculptures. His first one-man exhibition in New York City was at the Martha Jackson Gallery in 1969, and the next year he joined the Howard Wise Gallery, which specialized in Kinetic Art.  An Eclectic Sensibility
        By then Mr. Downey was already experimenting with the video medium, having purchased a portable camera in 1967. By the early 1970's he was devoting all his energy to videotapes, performances and installation pieces, developing a sensibility that was both eclectic and versatile. His tapes often began with documentary material that he enriched with splicing, mixing and voice-overs.
        His subjects reflected a comparable complexity. From an involvement with perception and random sounds and images, Mr. Downey turned in the early 1970's to ecological subjects and then to politics and history. His work frequently had an autobiographical aspect, making use of his Indian-Spanish heritage and his experiences in Europe and America to examine issues of identity and power.
        Mr. Downey had one-man shows at the Whitney Museum of American Art (where his work was also seen in six Biennial Exhibitions between 1975 and 1991); the International Center of Photography; the University Art Museum, Berkeley, Calif., and the Contemporary Art Museum in Houston. His work is represented in many collections around the world, including the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum and the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Downey is survived by two stepdaughters, Marilys Lamadrid of New York City and Elizabeth Yingling of Cape Cod, Mass.; two stepsons, Rene and Juan Lamadrid of New York City; seven brothers and sisters, all of Santiago, and five grandchildren.
      