
        Thomas Ammann, a dealer in Impressionist and modern art and a major collector of contemporary art, died on Wednesday at the Bircher-Benner Clinic in Zurich. He was 43.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        The son of a businessman in Ermatingen, north of Zurich, Mr. Ammann became an art collector while still a teen-ager and ended his education with high school. At 18 he went to work at the Gallery Bruno Bischofberger in Zurich and in 1976 went into business for himself with the backing of a Swiss investor who was never identified.
        The gallery, Thomas Ammann Fine Art, was soon visited by major collectors from throughout Europe and the United States. Its patrons included David Geffen, Gianni Agnelli, Stavros Niarchos, Ronald Perelman, Ronald Lauder and Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza de Kaszon. From Picassos to Warhols
        Mr. Ammann dealt mainly in the paintings and sculpture of Matisse, Picasso, Giacometti and Francis Bacon. But he sometimes sold the works of contemporary artists, including Andy Warhol, Ross Bleckner, Cy Twombly and Eric Fischl. His gallery was preparing the Catalogue Raisonne of Warhol.
        Mr. Ammann was one of two dealers who sold Vincent van Gogh's portrait of Joseph Roulin to the Museum of Modern Art in 1989. The sale was negotiated with the museum by Mr. Ammann and Ernst Beyeler of Basel for its anonymous owners and the terms were never disclosed. But to pay for the portrait, valued at about $50 million, the museum then sold a number of art works.
        A prominent figure in social circles during the 1980's, Mr. Ammann was a major player in the art auctions in New York and London as the bidder and buyer on record-breaking art works. In 1989 he bought Bacon's "Study for Portrait of Van Gogh II" for $5.83 million, a price that was briefly the record for the artist. In 1991 he paid $2.09 million for Warhol's "210 Coca-Cola Bottles."
        He is survived by his sister Doris, who was his associate at the gallery; his parents, Emil and Nelly Ammann of Ermatingen, and two other sisters, Eveline of Ermatingen and Susan of Geneva.
      