
        Dr. Carl Bode, an authority on American literature and culture, died on Tuesday at the Heron Point residential care center in Chestertown, Md., where he lived. He was 81.
        His family said he had had several strokes.
        Dr. Bode (pronounced BOH-dee) wrote or edited 30 books, many of them on H. L. Mencken, Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson. He founded the Mencken Society, was a past president of the Thoreau Society of America and wrote the Encyclopaedia Britannica's entries on Mencken and Thoreau.
        His book "Mencken" was published in 1969, reprinted in paperback in 1973 and reissued in 1986 by Johns Hopkins. He also led efforts to create the Mencken Museum in Baltimore.
        Dr. Bode taught English and American studies for nearly 40 years at the University of Maryland and was executive secretary of its American civilization program.
        He founded the American Studies Association and headed the the Middle Atlantic Section of the College English Association, the Popular Culture Association, the Maryland State Arts Council, the Maryland State Humanities Council and the United States Education Commission in the United Kingdom. Cultural Attache in 1950's
        In his diverse career, he was also the cultural attache to the American Embassy in London from 1957 to 1959. He published three volumes of poetry and wrote columns for The Baltimore Sun and book reviews and essays for The Washington Post.
        As a longtime member of the Cosmos Club in Washington, he introduced the resolution that eventually gained membership for women in what had been an all-male club.
        Dr. Bode was born in Milwaukee. After graduating from the University of Chicago in 1933, he taught at the Milwaukee Vocational School for four years. At Northwestern University he earned a master's degree in 1938 and a doctorate in 1941.
        After serving in the Army in World War II, he joined the University of Maryland faculty in 1947. He won fellowships from the Ford and Guggenheim Foundations and the Newberry Library.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Charlotte Watkins Smith, and three daughters: Barbara Bode of Washington, Janet Bode of Manhattan and Carolyn Bode of Santa Monica, Calif.
      