
        Douglas C. Watson, an aeronautical engineer, died on Saturday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 73.
        Mr. Watson, who had suffered from emphysema for several years, died in his sleep, a family spokesman said.
        One of the first black aeronautical engineers in the United States, Mr. Watson spent 27 years with the Fairchild Republic Aviation Corporation in Farmingdale, L.I. He retired in 1978 as the company's chief of requirements and planning-systems effectiveness.
        During his career, he helped to develop the F-105 and F-84 jet fighters. But Mr. Watson considered his role in the design of the long-range P-47N, a bomber escort, to be his major contribution to aviation. He also designed several private homes and commercial properties. Led Consulting Company
        After his retirement from Fairchild, where he began his career as a designer working on both commercial and military aircraft, he served as president of the Sabre Research Corporation, consulting engineers.
        Mr. Watson received a bachelor's degree in 1941 and a master's degree in 1943 from New York University, both in aeronautical engineering, and later did advanced studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        When he first graduated from N.Y.U., Mr. Watson was the only black in his class, the third-ranking student in aeronautical engineering and winner of the Vought Medal for aeronautical design.
        Mr. Watson was born to a family of achievers. In 1930, his father, the late Judge James S. Watson, was the first black man elected to what was then called the New York City Municipal Court. His younger brother, James L. Watson, is the senior judge of the United States Court of International Trade.
        Mr. Watson's late sister, Barbara Watson, was the nation's first black Assistant Secretary of State and later served as Ambassador to Malaysia.
        Mr. Watson is survived by his wife of 45 years, Barbara; two sons, Marc, of Montclair, N.J., and Craig, of Chicago; his brother, James; a sister, Grace, and four grandchildren.
      