
        Harry Edward Neal, who retired as a top Secret Service official and started a second career as an author, writing 31 books, died Monday at a hospital in Culpeper, Va. He was 87 and lived in Culpeper.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        After 31 years with the Secret Service, Mr. Neal retired in his early 50's as the assistant director in 1957 and began writing books.
        Although he wrote about the Secret Service, he had a variety of other book topics: the Salvation Army, kites, political parties, maps, the Industrial Revolution, time, writing techniques, the telescope and the Smithsonian Institution.
        Many of his books were for young people and were about careers in engineering, banking, foreign service, medical research, conservation and aviation. In all, his works sold more than 500,000 copies.
        Beginning at the Secret Service as a stenographer, Mr. Neal sometimes accompanied agents. In a 1931 raid on counterfeiters, he retrieved a negative of a $10 bill from a furnace. It was the only evidence seized and it won a conviction, earning Mr. Neal a promotion to agent.
        During World War II, he helped direct the shipment of the Constitution, Declaration of Independence and other special documents from Washington to Fort Knox, Ky., for safekeeping. He also helped write the law that made the Secret Service a permanent agency.
        As an agent, he wrote articles on counterfeit money, then gradually expanded his work to short stories and nonfiction articles for popular magazines like Collier's, The Saturday Evening Post, Cosmopolitan, Changing Times and Esquire.
        He served as the president of the Association of Former Agents of the United States Secret Service.
        Mr. Neal was born in Pittsfield, Mass.
        He was married for nearly 36 years to the former Helen Armstrong, who died in 1965.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Berniece Raymer Roer; a son, Harry Jr. of Fredericksburg, Va.; a daughter, Barbara Dinsenbacher of Derwood, Md.; two stepsons, George Roer of North Brunswick, N.J., and Michael Roer of Fairfield, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      