
        Sheldon Keck, a pioneer in the field of art conservation, died on Saturday at the Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause of death was complications after a stroke, said his wife, Caroline.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1932, and serving an apprenticeship at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard, Mr. Keck was appointed conservator at the Brooklyn Museum.
        From 1934 to 1961, he established and ran one of the first museum laboratories in the nation specializing in the scientific examination and treatment of works of art. Mr. Keck's laboratory, which attracted international attention, trained many young conservators.
        One principle of conservation he insisted upon, which has become standard practice today, was that no act of restoration should be undertaken unless it was "fully reversible."
        "All matter deteriorates," he once said, "and so any repair made today might not be adequate tomorrow, and will have to be done over."
        During World War II, Mr. Keck was assigned to the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Service, whose purpose was to collect stolen or displaced works of art. Conservator and Detective
        After his return to the Brooklyn Museum, Mr. Keck and his wife became consultant conservators for the Museum of Modern Art, the Solomon R. Guggenhein Museum, the Phillips Collection in Washington, Colonial Williamsburg, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and other institutions.
        Mr. Keck was particularly adept at detecting forgeries. In 1947 and 1948, working with the art critic Alfred Frankenstein, he uncovered some 20 still-life paintings by John F. Peto, which bore the signature of W. M. Harnett. A forger had painted out Peto's name and added Harnett's signature to increase the sale price.
        In 1961, he left the Brooklyn Museum to assume the directorship of the Conservation Center of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, the first American graduate-training program of its kind.
        From 1969 to 1981, he and Mrs. Keck operated the Cooperstown Conservation training program under the auspices of the State University College at Oneonta, N.Y., and the New York State Historical Association.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Albert, of Cooperstown, and Lawrence, of Annandale, Va., and two grandchildren.
      