
        Vincent T. Hamlin, who created the popular Alley Oop cartoon strip, even though he had been thrown out of art class, died on Monday at a rest home in Spring Hill, Fla., at the age of 93.
        He had been in declining health, his family said.
        Alley Oop, a mesomorphic caveman, rode into the comics astride Dinny the dinosaur nearly 60 years ago. He still appears in 700 newspapers around the world, with Oola, his heartthrob, as well as King Guz, Queen Umpateedle, Grand Vizier Foozy and other inhabitants of the Kingdom of Moo.
        The strip's plot zooms back and forth across the centuries in Professor Wonmug's Time Machine, a device Mr. Hamlin dreamed up from working a movie projector, running reels forward and backward.
        Mr. Hamlin retired in 1971, when Dave Graue took over the strip. He was joined by another cartoonist, Jack Bender, last year.
        As a youngster, Mr. Hamlin caricatured teachers, but his life took several turns before he made cartooning a career. At 17 he enlisted in the Army and went to France in World War I. He returned to study journalism and art at the University of Missouri.
        He recalled being humiliated by a teacher who said his conventional rendering of a tiger was "the work of a truly fine artist, and he wants to perjure this God-given gift to become a cartoonist."
        Mr. Hamlin said: "When she gave me my tiger back, I proceeded to paint on a top hat, put spats on his feet, a cigar in his mouth and a cane in the crook of his tail. After that, I was out."
        Next he worked as a reporter in Des Moines, then moved to Fort Worth, where he worked as a photographer, reporter and cartoonist. In 1927 he started working in oil fields, doing layouts, posters and maps. Then, toying with the idea of a prehistoric caveman, he returned to Des Moines and developed the strip.
        Mr. Hamlin indulged in daredevil hobbies. He enjoyed aerial photography until his third crash. Then he built and raced midget automobiles, until he broke both wrists in an accident.
        He was married for nearly 60 years to the former Dorothy Stapleton, who died in 1984. His survivors include a son, Jon, of Spring Hill; a daughter, Theodora Dewalt, of Denver; two grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      