
        Maurice T. Turner Jr., who joined a largely segregated District of Columbia police department as a black officer in 1957 and rose to become its chief 24 years later, died Wednesday at Washington Hospital Center. A Washington resident, he was 57.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said a hospital spokeswoman, Dena Michaelson.
        Chief Turner, a native of the nation's capital, had the reputation of a tough law-enforcement official whose example helped the careers of many other black officers. Tall and burly, he was considered a cop's cop by friends and colleagues.
        He graduated from high school in Washington in 1953 and spent three years in the Marine Corps before being appointed to the Metropolitan Police Department. He became a lieutenant in 1968 and held a succession of supervisory positions until he became assistant chief in 1978.
        In mid-1981, Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. named him the 24th chief of the Department. Chief Turner played a key role in managing an unprecedented increase in Washington's police force, mandated by Congress to combat the capital's growing crime and drug problems.
        Under that mandate, 1,500 officers were recruited, trained and sworn in within two years, raising the department's strength from 3,600 to 5,100 members.
        He also got into public disputes with Mayor Barry, handed in his badge in July 1989 and became a registered Republican. The following year he ran as a law-and-order candidate to succeed Mr. Barry, who was then awaiting sentencing on a count of drug possession.
        Mr. Barry had bowed out of contention, but five Democrats were in the race in the heavily Democratic city. The winner was Sharon Pratt Kelly, a political novice who captured 86 percent of the vote.
        Mr. Turner, who was divorced, is survived by his longtime companion, Veronica Randall; two daughters, Andree Kelly and Jeannine Turner; a son, Maurice E.; three sisters, Doris Thorne, Judge Linda Turner Hamilton and Patricia Swain, and two brothers, Karl and Frank.
      