
        Aleksandr Sergeivich Davydov, one of the world's leading chemical physicists, has died, the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences has announced. He was 80.
        The brief announcement on Thursday did not disclose the date or circumstances of Dr. Davydov's death, but summarized the accomplishments of his long career.
        American physicists and chemists who learned of Dr. Davydov's death yesterday described the scientist as one of the world's most prolific and influential pioneers in explaining the subtle physics underlying the behavior of molecules. He was most well known for creating in the 1960's the "exciton theory," a quantum mechanical explanation for a peculiar effect seen in light passing through crystals.
        Dr. Michael Kasha, a professor of physics at Florida State University who translated many of Dr. Davydov's works into English, said Dr. Davydov's theoretical discoveries had profoundly affected research in solid-state physics, the branch of science concerned with semiconductors and other commercially important technologies.
        Dr. William Nunn Lipscomb of Harvard University, winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, said Dr. Davydov "was a truly great physical chemist."
        Although Dr. Davydov never visited the United States, he had many friends and admirers among American scientists. In 1960 and 1961, at the height of the cold war, Dr. Roald Hoffmann, a chemical theorist at Cornell University, obtained permission to work with Dr. Davydov at his laboratory at the University of Moscow and spent nine months there. 'An Inspiring Experience'
        "The Soviet authorities were rather uneasy about my presence in the U.S.S.R. at the time -- and my mother worried that I might be drafted into the Red Army -- but working with Davydov was an inspiring experience," said Dr. Hoffmann, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1981.
        Dr. Davydov's work on excitons began with observations of the spectra of light passing through crystals of naphthaline, the main constituent of moth balls. Physicists expected that the absorption lines in the spectrum should be diffuse, representing a kind of average of the millions of different energy levels of all the molecules in the crystal. Instead, they found two very sharp absorption peaks, a seemingly unexplainable phenomenon.
        Dr. Davydov's solution, based on quantum mechanics, was that all but two of the possible energy states of this myriad of naphthaline molecules were forbidden by the uncertainty principle, a mainstay of quantum physics. Only the two energy levels permitted by the uncertainty principle, he realized, contributed to the absorption spectrum, and it was these two that were represented by the sharp absorption peaks. The "exciton" particles that play a role in this phenomenon are electrons or photons that provide communication between the molecules of a crystal.
        Dr. Davydov was born Dec. 26, 1912, in Yevpatoriya in what is now part of Ukraine, in the Crimea. He graduated from Moscow University in 1939, and in 1953, after becoming a full professor at the University of Moscow, he was elevated to membership in the Soviet Academy of Sciences. At his death, he was director emeritus of the Institute of Theoretical Physics of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
        His book "Theory of Molecular Excitons" was translated into English by Dr. Kasha and Max Oppenheimer Jr. and was published in the United States in 1962.
      