
        Gordon Cardinal Gray, the spiritual leader of Scotland's 800,000 Roman Catholics since 1969, who was influential over the years in the liturgical policy of the Roman Catholic Church and its press relations, died Monday in Edinburgh. He was 82 and lived in Edinburgh.
        The Associated Press said Gardinal Gray entered Edinburgh Royal Infirmary last week suffering from a heart ailment.
        He was made a Cardinal in 1969, becoming the first Cardinal to reside in Scotland in more than 400 years, since the Reformation. He was Archbishop of St. Andrews and Edinburgh from 1951 until his retirement from that post in 1985.
        Cardinal Gray, who was born in Scotland, was conservative in doctrinal matters but was widely seen as temperate in expressing his views. The Times of London said yesterday, "His non-threatening personality and his ability to chair meetings efficiently made him an ideal candidate for a quiet but effective international role in the life of the church."
        During his years as Cardinal, he was a member of the Vatican's Sacred Congregation for Divine Worship and chairman of the International Commission for English in the Liturgy, whose mission was translating the Latin liturgy for English-speaking Roman Catholic worshipers around the globe.
        The commission's work was the result of the church's decision, taken at the Second Vatican Council in the early 1960's, to switch its liturgy from the traditional Latin to modern languages.
        The Cardinal was also a member of the Pontifical Commission for Social Communications, the church's central organization for dealing with the mass media. He helped to draft the Pastoral Instruction on the Media, which in 1971 set out the church's future approach to the printed press, television and radio.
        His manner was in many ways unassuming. In his spare time, he liked to fix old automobiles, and when he visited Rome, he used to obtain spare parts for the antiquated Fiat car he maintained in Edinburgh.
        Within Scotland, the Cardinal worked for good relations between Catholics and the Presbyterian Protestant majority.
        As early as 1964, as Archbishop, he had talks with representatives of Scotland's Presbyterian church organization, called the Church of Scotland, concerning marriages between Catholics and Protestants. In 1977 he became the first Cardinal to address the Church of Scotland's General Assembly.
        Gordon Joseph Gray was born in Leith, just north of Edinburgh. He attended Holy Cross Academy in Edinburgh and St. John's Seminary, in Wonersh, and was ordained in 1935.
        He is survived by a brother, George
      