
        Thomas Moody Campbell, a scholar and author on 20th-century American foreign policies and relations, died on July 11 at a hospital in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 57 and lived in Tallahassee, where he taught at Florida State University for 30 years.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Professor Campbell was co-editor with George C. Herring of "The Diaries of Edward R. Stettinius Jr., 1943-1946" (F. Watts, 1974), which was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize in 1975. He was the first recipient of a Stettinius Fellowship and catalogued the complete Stettinius papers for the Library of Congress.
        At his death, he was doing research for a biography of the industrialist, who served President Franklin D. Roosevelt as lend-lease administrator and Secretary of State. Books and Articles
        Professor Campbell was the author of "Masquerade Peace: America's U.N. Policy 1944-1945" (University Presses of Florida, 1973). He wrote several other books, as well as numerous papers and articles for historical journals.
        A native of Evanston, Ill., he was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Randolph-Macon College. He earned his master's and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Virginia, where he started his academic career as a teaching assistant.
        He joined the faculty of Florida State in 1963 as an instructor and became a full professor of history in 1977. He also served as a member of the Faculty Senate, assistant dean of the Graduate School and chairman of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee.
        The Junior Chamber of Commerce named him one of its 10 Outstanding Young Americans of 1971, and he was chosen as a Fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities two years later.
        Professor Campbell is survived by his wife of 20 years, Cora Rolfe Campbell; three sons by a previous marriage, Thomas M. 3d, of Tallahasse, David H., of New Orleans, and William H., of Lynchburg, Va., and a grandson.
        Correction:  July 26, 1993, Monday
        An obituary headline on Thursday about Thomas Moody Campbell, a scholar and author on 20th-century American foreign policies and relations, misstated his age in some editions. He was 57, not 51.
      