
        Dr. Karl Robert Paley, an internist and former department head associated with Lenox Hill Hospital for 45 years, died on Wednesday at his Greenwich Village home in Manhattan. He was 79.
        The cause was lymphoma, his family said.
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Paley graduated from City College and received his medical degree from New York University College of Medicine in 1938. He then worked as a researcher on metabolism at the medical college and completed his internship at Montefiore Hospital and his residency at Bellevue Hospital.
        In World War II, he went on active duty in the Naval Reserve. His assignments included service as a medical officer aboard a destroyer and flight surgeon on the U.S.S. Wasp. He was discharged with the rank of lieutenant commander in 1946. Trained in Use of Isotopes
        After the war, he joined the faculty of New York University, where he taught as an assistant clinical professor until 1979. In the 1950's, he also trained in the use of radioactive isotopes at the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was in private practice of internal medicine, with emphasis on metabolic disorders, in New York from 1948 to 1972.
        His link with Lenox Hill also dated from 1948. He served as chief of its Metabolic Clinic and subsequently of the Department of Nuclear Medicine, the branch that uses radioactive chemical elements -- isotopes -- in the diagnosis and treatment of disease. He formally retired in 1979 but continued his association to the present as honorary attending physician.
        He was active in community affairs in Greenwich Village in organizations including the Northern Dispensary, the Waverly Block Association and Community Board No. 2. At his death he was a member of the Office of Professional Medical Conduct in the New York State Department of Health.
        Dr. Paley is survived by his wife of 42 years, Ethel Schneider Paley; and two daughters, Claudia and Eliza Paley, both of Manhattan.
      