
        Rabbi Baruch N. Faivelson, a retired teacher, administrator and dean at Yeshiva University, died on July 17 at Kings Highway Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his family said.
        For 20 years Rabbi Faivelson was the dean and director of the Teachers Institute for Women, now the Stern College for Women at Yeshiva.
        During his tenure, the institute's enrollment grew from 10 students to more than 400. The institute granted Hebrew teacher's diplomas to nearly 700 women, many of whom became Jewish educators in the United States and Israel. He founded a program in which students studied in Israel for one semester and also organized a fund for needy Israeli students and families.
        He won several awards from Yeshiva and was also honored by the New York Metropolitan Commission of Talmud Torah Education.
        Rabbi Faivelson was born in Lithuania and moved to the United States at the age of 13.
        His affiliation with Yeshiva began as a student. He earned a Hebrew teacher's diploma from the Teachers Institute for Men in 1934 and a bachelor's degree from Yeshiva College in 1935.
        He was ordained as a rabbi at the Mir Yeshiva in Poland in 1938, served as a rabbi in Derby, Conn., taught at Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn, and earned a master's degree from Columbia University's Teachers College in 1949.
        Rabbi Faivelson started working at Yeshiva as a teacher at its Brooklyn Talmudical Academy, then taught at the Samuel H. Wang Yeshiva University High School for Girls. He was appointed registrar of the Teacher's Institute in 1953 and dean and director in 1959. After formally retiring in 1979, he continued as a lecturer and consultant.
        He was married for nearly 50 years to the former Dora Frankel, who died last year.
        His survivors include two daughters, Saralie Faivelson and Hannah Faivelson, both of Brooklyn; and a sister, Faygie Schneider, of Manhattan.
      