
        Francis Bouygues, a hard-nosed French businessman who built one of the world's largest construction groups and later diversified into the media business, died today at his vacation home in St. Malo, Britanny. He was 70.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, medical officials said in a statement.
        Born in the central region of Auvergne, France, Mr. Bouygues practiced the down-to-earth values for which that area is famous as he turned the small construction business he founded in 1952 into a group with sales last year of $11 billion and 84,000 employees.
        "I have no colleagues -- I only have competitors" was one of the favorite sayings of a man who shunned industry associations and seldom, if ever, spoke to news organizations. It was his character, as well as his enterprise, that earned him the nickname Monsieur Beton (Mr. Concrete). Projects Under Way Worldwide
        Bouygues S.A. was active across the world. Among its many construction projects were the University of Riyadh in Saudi Arabia; the central Paris shopping and entertainment complex known as the Forum des Halles; the Charles de Gaulle airport, just north of Paris, and the towering Grande Arche, which looms behind the Arc de Triomphe, in the modern western suburb of La Defense. The company is also a main contractor on the Channel Tunnel project, which is nearing completion.
        But Mr. Bouygues, while taking on his fair share of conspicuous projects, did not shun bread-and-butter ventures. He relentlessly secured valuable contracts to build roads and motorways throughout France and subsidized housing in city suburbs.
        Mr. Bouygues never cared much about public relations and liked to say that the only thing that interested him was telling the truth. But he knew a good business when he saw one, and emerged from a host of competitors, including Robert Maxwell, the late media tycoon, to win effective control of France's most popular television station, TF1, when it was privatized in 1987.
        It was an unlikely move for a man who preferred chatting with workers on a building site rather than the Paris limelight. But television became Mr. Bouygues's passion in his later years, and TF1 prospered. Its nightly news, presented by Patrick Poivre d'Arvor, became the most influential single program in France, and Mr. Poivre d'Arvor the most talked-about figure in the media. Expanding French Cinema
        Mr. Bouygues also moved into movie production through a company he established, Ciby 2000. In this role, he and a son, Martin, were aggressive in pushing French cinema production into a more international role. It was typical that the much acclaimed co-winner of this year's Cannes film festival, "The Piano" by the New Zealand director Jane Campion, was a Bouygues movie, although it was made in English and directed by a foreigner.
        A careful planner, Mr. Bouygues had largely ceded day-to-day running of the group to Martin and other family members. It therefore seemed unlikely that his death would cause major disruptions in the group.
        More information on survivors was not immediately available.
      