
        Dr. Simon Greenberg, rabbi, educator and religious thinker and vice chancellor emeritus of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, died on Monday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 92 and moved to Jerusalem last year from Manhattan.
        The cause was cardiorespiratory arrest, said a grandson, Joel Greenberg.
        Dr. Greenberg joined the faculty of the Jewish Theological Seminary in 1932 and became vice chancellor in 1957. He held the post until 1986. During his long tenure at the the seminary, he became known as an institution builder, visionary and a leading spokesman for Conservative Judaism.
        A scholar until his life's end, Dr. Greenberg was lecturing, teaching and writing the week before his death. He was working on a book that was to be a manual for rabbis on writing sermons.
        "Dr. Greenberg's main contribution was his life, which personified Jewish values, his passion for ethical living, his unbroken study of religious texts and love of ritual," said Dr. Ismar Schorsch, chancellor of the seminary.
        While he was vice chancellor of the seminary, Dr. Greenberg was founder of the University of Judaism at Los Angeles, a branch of the seminary, in 1958, serving as its first president until 1963. He was also instrumental in the establishment of the seminary's academic campus at Hebrew University in Jerusalem in 1958.
        From 1950 to 1953, he was executive director of the United Synagogue of America, the national organization of Conservative congregations, representing a compromise between the Orthodox and Reform movements in the Jewish religion. At the organizations's biennial conference in 1950, Dr. Greenberg forcefully denounced the McCarran Internal Security Act of 1950 as a threat to civil liberties and persuaded the delegates to demand its repeal.
        Dr. Greenberg served as rabbi of Har Zion Temple in Philadelphia, one of the leading synagogues of the Conservative movement, from 1925 to 1951. During that time, he was also adviser to Jewish students at the University of Pennsylvania and Temple University.
        He was born in Horoshen, Russia, and came to the United States at age 4. He studied at the University of Minnesota and graduated from City College of New York in 1922. He was ordained at the seminary in 1925 and was a member of the first class of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem that same year. He received his Ph.D. from Dropsie College in 1932.
        His best-known books include: "Living as a Jew Today" (Behrman, 1940), "Foundations of a Faith" (Burning Bush Press, 1967), "The Ethical in the Jewish and American Heritage" (Jewish Theological Seminary, 1977) and "A Jewish Philosophy and Pattern of Life" (Jewish Theological Seminary, 1981). He also edited "The Ordination of Women as Rabbis," a collection of articles, published by the seminary in 1988. He was a chairman of the executive committee of the Jewish Agency and the World Zionist Organization of America from 1963 to 1968. He also served as a past president of the Philadelphia Zionist Organization and the National Educational Committee of the Zionist Organization of America.
        His wife of 67 years, Betty, died in March.
        Surviving are two sons, Moshe, of Jerusalem and Daniel, of Sudbury, Mass.; a sister, Frances Gorin, Fresh Meadows, Queens; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      