
        Shannon McCune, an educator, geographer and specialist in Asian studies, died Monday at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 79.
        His family said he died of congestive heart failure.
        Dr. McCune, a former president of the University of Vermont and provost of the University of Massachusetts, was an expert on the geography of the Far East. Besides his academic positions he was director of Unesco's education department in Paris and held several United States Government positions as an Asian expert.
        He served as the first civil administrator of Japan's Ryukyu Islands from 1962 to 1964, when the islands were under American military control. He returned to Okinawa, the main island, in 1970 with a research grant from the National Science Foundation. Began Teaching in 1939
        He was born in Sonchon, Korea, the son of Presbyterian missionaries. He received a bachelor's degree from the College of Wooster, in Ohio, a master's degree from Syracuse University and a Ph.D. in geography from Clark University in Worcester, Mass., in 1939.
        Dr. McCune began his teaching career in 1939 at Ohio State University. In 1947 he went to Colgate University as chairman of the geography department, where he remained until 1955.
        He was provost of the University of Massachusetts from 1955 to 1961. In 1965 he was named president of the University of Vermont, but resigned in 1966 to do research for the university in the Far East.
        Dr. McCune was director of the American Geographical Society of New York from 1967 to 1969. He then went to the University of Florida in Gainesville as a professor and chairman of the geography department, retiring in 1979. Won Medal of Freedom
        He served with the Foreign Economic Administration in India, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) and in China, for which he won the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1946, and was educational consultant to a United Nations development mission in the Indonesian province of West Irian in 1967.
        In addition to scores of articles and monographs on Asian geography, Dr. McCune was the author of several books, including "Korea's Heritage, a Regional and Social Geography," published in 1956 by the Charles E. Tuttle Company in Rutland, Vt.; "Korea: Land of Broken Calm," published in 1966 by the Van Nostrand Company in Princeton, N.J., and "The Ryuku Islands," published in 1975 in England.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edith Blair; two daughters, Antoinette Bement of Jamaica, Vt., and Shannon Wagner of Pittsburgh; a son, George Blair McCune of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      