
        Vincent J. Schaefer, a self-taught chemist who invented cloud "seeding" and created the first artificially induced snow and rainfall, died on Sunday at a hospital in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Rotterdam, N.Y.
        Mr. Schaefer drew worldwide attention with his 1946 experiments for General Electric making the first snowstorm in a laboratory and inducing precipitation outdoors, solving many of the mysteries of rain and snow that had baffled scientists.
        He was hailed as the first person to actually do something about the weather and not just talk about it. Hopes grew that cloud seeding could fight drought, control storms, reduce hail, quench forest fires and even guarantee a white Christmas.
        But concerns arose about disrupting weather patterns and "stealing" rain. There were also practical difficulties in controlling the weather. The Saturday Evening Post noted that after seeding, it was still "difficult to aim a cloud."
        Although the grander hopes were unrealized, cloud seeding is still done in some countries, and the techniques are also used to clear clouds over some airports.
        Mr. Schaefer went on to become the founder and director of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center at the State University of New York at Albany. He retired in the 1970's. Inauspicious Beginning
        Mr. Schaefer's career began inauspiciously when he dropped out of high school at 15 to support his brothers and sisters as a drill press operator at G.E. The only formal education he completed was the Davey Institute of Tree Surgery, where he worked briefly as a landscape gardener.
        "Well-trained men wouldn't do the things I do," he said once. "If I found anything, it's most likely because I didn't know better."
        Yet he soon developed into an important scientific researcher on World War II projects and meteorology.
        At G.E., he recalled, "From the beginning I wanted to get into the lab, and kept pestering them until they put me into the model machine shop."
        His ingenuity in working on films only a molecule thick caught the attention of Dr. Irving Langmuir, the Nobel laureate who helped run the lab. The two shared a fondness for the outdoors, and he became Mr. Schaefer's mentor. The aspiring researcher read hundreds of scientific books.
        During the war, they invented several important devices, including gas mask filters, submarine detectors and a machine for generating clouds of smoke to conceal military maneuvers.
        Typical of Mr. Schaefer's knack for simplicity, his prototype for the smoke machine was an oil can, some fuel and an electric hot plate. Fascination With Snowflakes
        Their military research also included the problems of ice on airplane wings and static radio interference and weather projects. Mr. Schaefer developed various instruments, including a meter to measure the moisture in clouds. This work, together with Mr. Schaefer's own obsession with snow, set the stage for the cloud-seeding.
        While skating on a pond at the age of 18, he had marveled at the complexity and symmetry in snowflake crystals. He developed a system for capturing impressions of snowflakes on a plastic film before they evaporated or melted.
        Although he photographed and studied thousands of snowflakes, he was frustrated at not knowing how they formed. He was especially puzzled by supercooled clouds, in which moisture remained liquid even though the temperature was below freezing.
        At G.E., he lined a home freezer with black velvet and aimed a light beam at the little clouds of moisture that formed when he breathed inside. He tried sprinkling numerous materials -- talcum powder, household cleanser, sulfur and sand -- hoping they would form the nuclei for snowflakes. Nothing happened.
        One hot July day when the freezer was straining to stay cold, he added some dry ice, carbon dioxide. Instantly the little cloud turned into tiny ice crystals, caused by the temporary reduction in temperature. Soon he duplicated the effect from an airplane over Mount Greylock, Mass., using six pounds of dry ice and natural clouds.
        "It seemed as though the cloud almost exploded," he wrote in a notebook. From the ground, Dr. Langmuir watched the snow through binoculars. Later, with Dr. Bernard Vonnegut, the team developed silver iodide for seeding clouds.
        Mr. Schaefer also published nearly 300 scientific papers and books.
        His wife of 57 years, the former Lois Perret, died last year. He is survived by a son, James M., of Minneapolis; two daughters, Susan Sullivan of Sudbury, Mass., and Katherine Miller of Golden, Colo.; two brothers, Paul and Carl, both of Niskayuna, N.Y.; two sisters, Gertrude Fogarty and Margaret Allen, both of Albany; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      