
        Richard Joseph O'Keefe, a retired Air Force major general and a former commander of the 17th Air Force in Libya, died on July 21 at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Washington. He was 87 and lived in Fairfax, Va.
        The cause was cancer of the stomach, said his son Joseph Kirk O'Keefe.
        General O'Keefe took over as commanding officer of the 17th Air Force at Wheelus Air Base, outside Tripoli, in August 1956. Under the command were American bases in Italy, Greece, Turkey and Morocco as well as Libya.
        After receiving his second star in Tripoli, General O'Keefe returned to the Pentagon in July 1958, where he served in the Office of the Air Force Inspector General until his retirement in 1960. He earned his first star as commanding officer of the Dhahran Air Transport Base in Saudi Arabia in 1949, where he served for three years.
        He gained renown in 1952 as director of Air Force flight safety research, heading the investigation into the crash of a C-124 Globemaster at Moses Lake, Wash., in which 87 servicemen died. According to the official findings, the pilot had tried to take off with his controls at least partly locked; as a result of the inquiry, it was recommended that the unlocking device be redesigned.
        He was born in Brooklyn and enlisted in the New York National Guard in 1924. He went on to the United States Military Academy at West Point, graduating in the class of 1930 and became a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps on graduation from the Air Corps Flying School at Kelly Field in San Antonio.
        During World War II, he served as a colonel with the First Air Service Area Command, based in Cairo, and was responsible for air logistics in North Africa. His decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal and the Legion of Merit with two oak leaf clusters.
        Besides his son Joseph, of Corinth, Tex., survivors include his wife, Louise; another son, Richard Dennis of Redmond, Wash.; two brothers, Paul, of Wilmington, N.C., and Clement, of New York City, and four grandchildren.
      