
        Dr. John H. Harley, a leading expert on environmental radioactivity, died on Sunday at New York University's Tisch Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Hoboken, N.J.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Harley retired in 1980 as director of the Environmental Measurements Laboratory of the United States Department of Energy in Manhattan. He had joined the Atomic Energy Commission in 1949 as chief of the analytical division of what became its Health and Safety Laboratory, the predecessor of the present institution. The name change came shortly after it became part of the Energy Department in 1977.
        He spent more than half a century in the field of environmental radioactivity and established methods and systems for the analysis of airborne materials and biological samples. He used them to assess the occupational exposures left in production plants after the Manhattan Project, which produced the first atomic bomb. Safety Analyst for A.E.C.
        Dr. Harley, internationally known among his peers, frequently was in the public eye in the 1950's, when the mushroom clouds from ground tests in Nevada dispersed over thousands of square miles. As chief safety analyst in the A.E.C. laboratories in New York, he evaluated research on nuclear fallout sampled at more than 100 sites worldwide.
        In one instance, a Nevada test and a downpour of 0.58 inches of rain on New York City in 1953 made radioactivity levels in the city's atmosphere jump to seven times the normal amount. Concern over such occurrences, as well as people then worrying about strontium 90 in their milk, led the National Academy of Sciences in 1956 to set forth safe levels for Dr. Harley and his agency to use as a yardstick in monitoring radioactivity.
        He became director of the laboratory itself in 1960 and continued as a consultant after his retirement, particularly in the area of measurement and risk from environmental radon. He was the author of more than 100 scientific articles and reports.
        Dr. Harley, a native of La Folette, Tenn., was a chemistry graduate of Brown University. He received his advanced degrees at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also taught for several years. His studies were interrupted during World War II when he did research for the Manhattan Project.
        He is survived by his wife and collaborator, Dr. Naomi Hallden Harley; two sons, Peter, of Oakland, Calif., and Eugene, of Manhattan; a daughter, Patricia Spencer of Spokane, Wash., and five grandchildren.
      