
        Prof. Lauren V. Ackerman, a cancer pathologist whose textbooks guided a generation of physicians and teachers, died on Tuesday at the Health Sciences Center of State University of New York at Stony Brook, L.I. He was 88 and lived in Setauket, L.I.
        The cause was cancer, said Prof. Juan Rosai, an associate and former student of Mr. Ackerman's who is now chairman of the department of pathology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        At his death, Dr. Ackerman was a professor of pathology at Stony Brook, where he taught this spring semester. Surgical Pathology
        He specialized in surgical pathology, the diagnosis of disease based on surgical biopsies. It is concerned with the microscopic evaluation of surgical specimens, particularly tumors.
        Professor Ackerman's first book, written with Dr. Juan del Regato, was "Cancer: Diagnosis, Treatment and Prognosis." It appeared in 1947 and five editions had been published by the 1980's.
        His classic "Surgical Pathology" first came out in 1953 and set a standard for the practice of that specialty. It is in its seventh edition and an eighth is being prepared by Dr. Rosai, entitled "Ackerman's Surgical Pathology." Both books were published by the C. V. Mosby Company.
        "He, more than anyone else, changed the character of anatomical pathology by directing the focus toward surgical pathology," said Dr. Leon Sokoloff, professor emeritus of pathology and orthopedics at Stony Brook. "The use and interpretation of biopsies increased greatly under his influence."
        Lauren Vedder Ackerman was born in Auburn, N.Y., and received his medical degree at the University of Rochester in 1932. Following his postgraduate training, he became chief of laboratories and then medical director at Ellis Fischel State Cancer Hospital in Columbia, Mo.
        In 1948, he was appointed professor of pathology at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, where he taught for 25 years. He joined the faculty at Stony Brook in 1973. He contributed more than 200 papers, notably on tumors of the bone and breast, and lectured throughout the world.
        Professor Ackerman is survived by his wife, Carol Blum; three daughters, Jennifer Arndt and Gretchen O'Neal of St. Louis, and Allison Ackerman of Bokeelia, Fla.; a son, John, of Indianapolis, and 13 grandchildren.
      