
        Paul A. Conley, the retired chairman of a Wall Street investment firm, died yesterday at home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Conley was the chairman of Blyth & Company and its successor firm, Blyth Eastman Dillon & Company. It later became part of Paine Webber.
        His career started in 1934 when he was a trainee in the buying department of Blyth's Chicago office. Eventually he moved to the headquarters in New York City and was promoted to vice president in 1950.
        He became a director, member of the executive committee, senior vice president, executive vice president and president. In 1956 he was involved in one of the biggest securities issues up to that time, when Ford Motor Company stock went public.
        He was chairman of Blyth in 1972 when it merged with Eastman Dillon, Union Securities & Company, to become the nation's third largest investment house.
        Mr. Conley was a member of the governing council of the Securities Industry Association. He also served as a director of the General Aniline and Film Corporation, Hart Schaffner & Marx, General American Oil Company and Pauley Petroleum.
        His dual role at the two oil companies drew criticism in 1974 when the Federal Trade Commission complained that he and others were serving on the boards of competing companies in violation of the Clayton Antitrust Act. He stepped down from Pauley's board.
        After retiring from Blyth Eastman in 1975, he moved to Florida and became active in business and community affairs, including serving on the board of the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra.
        Mr. Conley was born in Chicago and graduated from Loyola University. In World War II he was a major in the United States Army Air Corps Air Transport Command.
        Surviving are his wife of 48 years, the former Ruth Pearce; two sons, Paul Jr., of Omaha, Neb., and Christopher, of Newark, N.Y.; two daughters, Deborah Bower of North Berwick, Me., and Anne Ondrey of Pittsburgh; a brother, Raymond, of Chicago; two sisters, Marcella Malloy of Del Ray Beach, Fla., and Isabelle Hamilton of Marion, Ky., and 10 grandchildren.
      