
        Joseph R. Wishy, a producer in the performing arts and television who presented Jiri Kylian's early choreography in the United States, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was amoebic dysentery, said Frederick Wildfoerster, his personal assistant in Wishupon Productions.
        Although Mr. Wishy originally trained to become an opera director, he became best known for conceiving and producing theme programs at music and dance festivals and for numerous cultural documentaries made for television.
        "Portrait of Giselle," a film about ballerinas who had danced in the 19th-century ballet, which Mr. Wishy produced for the cable network ABC/A&E, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1983. Commissioned 'Sinfonietta'
        In 1978, Mr. Wishy combined his love of dance and music in a highly successful venture that shot Mr. Kylian to international stardom at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A., in Charleston, S.C. Mr. Wishy commissioned Mr. Kylian, who was about to become artistic director of the Netherlands Dance Theater, to create a ballet, "Sinfonietta," to music by Leos Janacek. Like Janacek, Mr. Kylian was born in Czechoslovakia, and at a tribute to the composer, directed by Mr. Wishy, he stunned American audiences with ballets that fused a bold physicality with a new expressiveness. Last year, American Ballet Theater also took "Sinfonietta" into its repertory.
        The delirious reception given Mr. Kylian's work at the festival led Mr. Wishy to present the Netherlands Dance Theater at the City Center in Manhattan and on the West Coast in 1979. In 1981, Mr. Wishy produced a documentary about Kylian and the company titled "Creation of a Ballet."
        Mr. Wishy also had a long association with the Italian ballerina Carla Fracci, for whom he often served as an impresario. Studied in Berlin and Milan
        Mr. Wishy was born in New York City and graduated from Columbia College. After attending Oxford University in England, he studied with the opera director Walter Felsenstein in East Berlin and with the opera and theater director Giorgio Strehler in Milan, where Mr. Wishy served an apprenticeship at La Scala. In the 1950's he was an assistant to Samuel Chotzinoff, director of the NBC Opera Theater.
        Mr. Wishy's major projects included a trilogy of cultural films for ABC/ A&E, with Jack Healy as executive producer. In addition to "Portrait of Giselle," they were "I Live for Art, Tosca," in which Robert Merrill interviewed interpreters of the opera, and "To Be Hamlet," featuring the director Trevor Nunn.
        Among Mr. Wishy's most popular co-productions was "To Dance for Gold," a documentary that examined the 1982 International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., with techniques borrowed from sports coverage. Mr. Wishy's production company, Wish upon, was associated with ABC Video in eight productions. These included "The Romantic Age" with Alicia Alonso, Miss Fracci and others.
        In 1969, Mr. Wishy and Alexander Cohen produced the Broadway musical "A Time for Singing." In 1971, Mr. Wishy presented "Orlando Furioso," an Italian theatrical production in an air-bubble dome built in Bryant Park. In 1977, the inaugural season of Spoleto Festival U.S.A. concluded with a concert of dance and music arranged by Mr. Wishy in tribute to the Russian composer Alexander Scriabin.
        Mr. Wishy is survived by a brother, Bernard Wishy of San Francisco.
      