
        Dr. Clarence Melvin Zener, a physicist whose early hypotheses on solid-state physics contributed to modern computer circuitry decades later, died on Friday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 87.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Zener (pronounced ZEE-ner), a former director of research for the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, was a professor of physics at the Carnegie Mellon University at the time of his death.
        A paper that Dr. Zener wrote in 1934 explaining the breakdown of electrical insulators produced in the 1950's the Zener diode, a voltage regulator that found its uses as a basic component in modern electronics. Heat Through Internal Friction
        He also introduced a new field of study with his work on internal friction, a process by which the energy in a vibrating metal is converted into heat as the vibration subsides. He was to have been the keynote speaker at the 10th International Conference on Internal Friction, to be held in Rome this September.
        Dr. Zener did much of the work for a concept known as ocean thermal energy conversion, which proposes a form of solar energy that would use temperature differences in the oceans, or thermocline, to generate power at low cost and without pollution. The concept is being developed further overseas.
        He discovered how to develop alloys with the help of mathematics. At Westinghouse, he also developed a new "stop watch," a type of photoelectric tube capable of timing events to one-billionth of a second.
        He was born and reared in Indianapolis, graduated from Stanford University and earned a Ph.D. in physics at Harvard University in 1929. Dr. Zener taught at several colleges, including the City College of New York, and was professor of physics at the University of Chicago when Westinghouse recruited him in 1951.
        He was a dean at Texas A&M University for two years before joining Carnegie Mellon in 1968.
        Dr. Zener was the author of more than 125 papers and books, and received many professional awards and honors.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Ruby Cross; two daughters, Jean Lepley of Seattle and Ann Edwards of Pittsburgh; two sons, Robert Zener of McLean, Va., and Thomas Zener of Irvine, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Frances Humiston of Leyba, N.M.; and 11 grandchildren.
      