
        Longstreet Hinton, a retired banking executive credited with building the trust and pension fund operations of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company into billions of dollars, died at his home in Locust Valley, L.I., on June 24. He was 91.
        Mr. Hinton's entire career was at Morgan Guaranty and its predecessor, the J. P. Morgan Company, the fabled Wall Street firm.
        Starting there fresh out of college in 1923, he worked his way up, winning promotions to department head, manager, vice president, trust officer, senior vice president, board member, executive vice president, executive committee member and trust committee chairman.
        In "The House of Morgan" (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1990), Ron Chernow wrote that Mr. Hinton was put in charge of Morgan's new trust division in the early 1940's, and his selection was unusual because he was not a lawyer. Innovative Leadership
        Under his leadership the department flourished and made innovations. He broke from Morgan Guaranty's traditionally conservative investing policies by buying common stocks.
        Morgan also moved into the rapidly growing market of managing corporate pension funds in the 1950's. An early coup was the landing of the General Motors account, which offered the latitude of investing up to half its portfolio in stocks.
        "What made us was the General Motors fund," the book quotes Mr. Hinton as saying. "When we led the parade there, then everybody wanted us." By the mid-1960's, Morgan was managing $15 billion in assets. Retired in 1976
        In 1976, at the age of 65, he retired from full-time duties but continued for a time on the board and its committees.
        He was a past treasurer of Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He also served on the boards of the American Research and Development Corporation, the Abu Dhabi Investment Board, the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States and the Transatlantic Reinsurance Company of New York.
        Mr. Hinton was born in Memphis and grew up in Vicksburg, Miss. He was a graduate of Williams College.
        His first marriage, to Penna Tew, ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 41 years, the former Odette O'Higgins; three sons, Dirck of Reno, Nev., Kit of Monte Cristo, Calif., and C. Patrick of Lucca, Italy; two daughters, Gail Payett of Cottage Grove, Ore., and Marianne Hinton of London; four grandchildren, and one great- granddaughter.
        Correction:  July 10, 1993, Saturday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Longstreet Hinton, a former banker who died on June 24, misstated the year of his retirement. It was 1967, not 1976.
      