
        Nona Balakian, a literary critic, essayist and a former editor on the staff of The New York Times Sunday Book Review, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72 years old.
        She apparently had a heart attack after a fall, her sister, Anna Nalbantian, said.
        An authority on 20th-century European and American literature, Ms. Balakian encouraged such authors as Eudora Welty, Anais Nin, Joyce Carol Oates, Carson McCullers, Reynolds Price, Kurt Vonnegut and others to do work for The Times Sunday Book Review. She also wrote many reviews, review-essays and interviews herself for the Sunday and daily book-review sections of The Times and for literary publications, as well as lecturing on literary topics at a number of universities.
        She was co-author, with Charles Simmons, of "The Creative Present" (Doubleday, 1969), a collection of essays on contemporary American fiction. "Critical Encounters" (Bobbs-Merrill), a gathering of her own essays, was published in 1978. A second edition of the book is now in preparation. At her death she was working on a critical study of William Saroyan, for which she had received a Rockefeller Foundation Humanities Award.  On Pulitzer Committees
        Ms. Balakian was active in authors' organizations, among them P.E.N. and the Authors Guild. She was a founding member and first secretary of the National Book Critics Circle and she had served on the Pulitzer Prize committees for non-fiction and poetry.
        Born in Constantinople, Ms. Balakian came to New York as a child. She graduated from Barnard College and received a master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1943.
        She joined the staff of The Times Book Review that year, and remained a staff member for 43 years, until she retired in 1987. After that, she continued her affiliation with The Times as a literary consultant.
        Besides her sister, Ms. Balakian is survived by six nieces and nephews.
        A funeral service will be held tomorrow at noon at St. Vartan's Armenian Cathedral, at 630 Second Avenue at 34th Street.
      