
        Ruth Page, a pioneering American ballet dancer and one of the first ballet choreographers to employ American subject matter, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 92 years old.
        She died of respiratory failure, said Andrew Mark Wentink, her biographer.
        Miss Page, who arranged Rudolf Nureyev's New York debut by engaging him for one of the companies she directed, was involved with an almost bewildering array of activities. She performed with Anna Pavlova's classical ballet company, with Serge Diaghilev's avant-garde Ballets Russes and with German Expressionist modern dancers.
        She appeared in opera houses around the world, danced at the coronation of Emperor Hirohito of Japan in 1928 and gave programs in the Soviet Union in 1930. But she remained proudly American, making Chicago the base of her activities and refusing to change her name at a time when many Americans adopted exotic stage names.  Wide Range as Choreographer
        An eclectic choreographer, Miss Page is known for "Hear Ye, Hear Ye" (1934), a ballet about a murder trial to a commissioned score by Aaron Copland; "An American Pattern" (1937), a feminist protest against conformity; "Billy Sunday" (1948), a ballet derived from a fiery evangelist's sermons, and several ballets based on famous operas.
        During the 30's, her partner was Bentley Stone, an American choreographer with whom she occasionally collaborated on works. Their most enduring achievement is "Frankie and Johnny," which was inspired by a bawdy old ballad about love and betrayal. Since its premiere in 1938, it has been successfully revived by many companies, including Dance Theater of Harlem. Reviewing a production by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1947, John Martin, who was then the dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, "It convinces you of its human truth even while you are chortling at its crude and uninhibited sentimentalities."
        Miss Page was born in Indianapolis on March 22, 1899, the daughter of Dr. Lafayette Page, a brain surgeon, and Marian Heinly, a pianist. Her parents encouraged her desire to dance and sent her to study with local teachers. In 1914, the Russian ballerina Anna Pavlova was a guest at the Page house and was so impressed by Miss Page that she encouraged the teen-ager to make dancing her career. Miss Page appeared briefly with Pavlova's company that year.
        Moving to Chicago, Miss Page studied with Adolph Bolm, a former member of Diaghilev's Ballets Russes who had settled in America and was staging productions both for Chicago companies and for his itinerant Ballet Intime. In 1919 Bolm choreographed "The Birthday of the Infanta" for Miss Page, one of the first 20th-century ballets with a score by an American composer (John Alden Carpenter) and scenery by an American designer (Robert Edmond Jones).  In a Stravinsky Premiere
        Bolm and Miss Page again made history in 1928, when she portrayed Terpsichore in the world premiere of Stravinsky's "Apollo," choreographed by Bolm in Washington months before George Balanchine created his more familiar version of the ballet for Diaghilev.
        Miss Page married Thomas Hart Fisher, a well-to-do Chicago lawyer, in 1925, and on her honeymoon in Europe danced with Diaghilev's company. While she was with the Ballets Russes, Balanchine choreographed two divertissements for her, "Etude" and "Polka Melancolique," which are believed to be his first works created for an American.
        Always curious about dance forms, Miss Page studied with Mary Wigman, the great German Expressionist choreographer, in 1930. In 1933, she toured with another important German modern dancer, Harald Kreutzberg.
        During the 1940's, she staged works in Chicago and for the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. She choreographed "Revanche," a ballet version of "Il Trovatore," for Les Ballets des Champs-Elysees in Paris in 1951, and "Vilia," an adaptation of "The Merry Widow," for the London Festival Ballet in 1953. Their success prompted her to found the Chicago Opera Ballet in 1956, a touring company that featured ballets inspired by operas and operettas. Yet it also presented internationally known stars in classial excerpts. It was with this troupe that Mr. Nureyev made his New York City debut in 1962. Later known as Ruth Page's International Ballet, it continued until 1970.  An Annual 'Nutcracker'
        In Chicago in 1965, Miss Page staged a production of "The Nutcracker" that remains an annual event in that city. She frequently revived her works for regional companies and directed the Ruth Page Foundation School of the Dance, which will continue under the direction of Larry Long.
        Miss Page's first husband, Mr. Fisher, died in 1969. She married the French artist and stage designer Andre Delfau in 1983. Miss Page was the author of "Page by Page" (1980) and "Class" (1984). She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1980 and the Illinois Gubernatorial Award in 1985, and held honorary degrees from Indiana University, De Paul University and Columbia College of Chicago.
        She is survived by her husband and a brother, Dr. Irvine Page of Hyannis, Mass.
      