
        Cora DuBois, an anthropologist, teacher and author who was an authority on Southeast Asia, died Sunday at a nursing home in Brookline, Mass. She was 87 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        She died of pneumonia and heart failure, her secretary, Eric Davis, said.
        Dr. DuBois was the Zimurray Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University and Radcliffe College when she retired in 1969. In World War II, she served with the Office of Strategic Services. She was later with the State Department, the Institute of International Education and the Far Eastern Association.
        In 1938 Dr. DuBois, who had taught anthropology at Hunter College, went to live in Alor, a small island in the Dutch East Indies. Living alone in a house in a remote mountain village, she learned the local language and was able to win the confidence of villagers by giving simple medical aid. Study of Islanders
        The result of her 18-month inquiry was "The People of Alor," a social and psychological study published in 1944 that won acclaim for its thoroughness and lucidity. She also wrote "Social Forces in Southeast Asia," which appeared in 1949, and her writings were widely published in scholarly journals.
        Dr. DuBois was a graduate of Barnard College, where she worked under the anthropologists Franz Boas and Ruth Benedict. She received her doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley after extensive ethnographic studies of Indian tribes in the American Northwest.
        When she returned from Alor, Dr. DuBois tought at Sarah Lawrence College before joining the Office of Strategic Services in 1942 as chief of its Indonesia section. She later became chief of research and analysis for the Army's Southeast Asia Command.
        The Army awarded Dr. DuBois the Exceptional Civilian Award, and she also received the Order of the Crown of Thailand for her participation in the Free Thai underground movement through the O.S.S. From 1945 to 1949 she was Southeast Asia Branch Chief in the State Department's Office of Intelligence Research.
        In 1951 Dr. DuBois was named to direct a study of educational needs and resources of third world areas. In 1954 she was appointed director of the Far Eastern Association and at the same time returned to academic life with her appointment at Harvard and Radcliffe.
        Dr. DuBois was president of the American Anthropological Associaton in 1968-69 and of the Association for Asian Studies in 1969-70.
        She leaves no immediate family survivors. Her longtime companion was Jeanne Taylor.
      