
        Shirley Goodman, a driving force behind the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York for more than four decades, died on Sunday at her Manhattan apartment.
        She was 75 years old and had had cancer for many years, a spokeswoman at the institute said.
        "If there is a single person whose vision and guidance have been most influential in shaping F.I.T., that person is Shirley Goodman," Marvin Feldman, the president of the institute, said.
        Ms. Goodman worked tirelessly for the institute, cajoling designers and editors into lecturing, talking manufacturers into opening their showrooms to students and persuading corporations to donate money.
        At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
        Since her arrival at the fashion institute in 1949, it has grown from two floors of borrowed space in a nearby high school to an eight-building complex on West 27th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. Ms. Goodman is credited with leading the expansion from a small trade school to a specialized college offering 24 majors in fashion design, art, business and technology. The college's graduates include Calvin Klein, Norma Kamali, John Anthony and Stephen Burrows.  Building Named for Her
        "I didn't start F.I.T., but I helped build it and broaden it," Ms. Goodman said in an interview in 1978. In recognition of her contributions, the college in 1975 dedicated one of its buildings as the Shirley Goodman Resource Center. It houses a library, galleries, a graduate center and a design laboratory with one of the country's largest collections of fashion costumes and textiles.
        Throughout her career, Ms. Goodman worked in community and government organizations promoting the fashion industry. She was an honorary professor of the Bunka College of Fashion in Tokyo. She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards. In 1975, the Fifth Avenue Association named her Woman of the Year and in 1976, Business Week magazine listed her as one of the 100 top corporate women in the United States.
        She joined the fashion institute in 1949 to help draft the legislation making the five-year-old college part of the State University system. She expected to stay there six months, she later said, but never left.
        Born in Virginia and reared in North Carolina, Ms. Goodman always retained a trace of a gentle Southern accent that seemed to temper her toughness as a business woman and a fund-raiser. People in the fashion industry described her as "a dynamo" and "a woman of simple dignity and pride." Despite several bouts with cancer, she refused to retire, saying: "When you retire you get old and tired. You don't stay vital."
        She is survived by her husband, Himan Brown, a radio and television producer; two sons from a previous marriage, Alan Fishman of New York and Barry Fishman of San Rafael, Calif., and a grandson. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service will be held at 5 P.M. May 20 at the institute's Haft Auditorium.
      