
        Harriet Fleischl Pilpel, a lawyer and civil libertarian who was a prominent advocate of women's rights, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old.
        Mrs. Pilpel died of a heart attack, her husband said.
        Last Wednesday, she received an award from the New York Civil Liberties Foundation, one of many such awards she had received. At her death she was first vice chairwoman of the National Advisory Council of the American Civil Liberties Union.
        Mrs. Pilpel, a frequent guest on the television program "Firing Line" with William F. Buckley Jr., was associated with the Manhattan law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, which she joined in 1982. Throughout her career she lectured extensively on freedom of speech and the press, birth control, abortion and related subjects. She also spoke on the status of women and literary and entertainment law.  Served on Rights Panel
        In the 1960's, she was a member of the Kennedy and Johnson Commissions on the Status of Women, serving on the committee on political and civil rights. From 1970 to 1978, she was chairwoman of the Law Panel International of Planned Parenthood Federation. She was also a consultant to the Women's Bureau of the United States Department of Labor from 1965 to 1976 and general counsel to the American Civil Liberties Union from 1979 to 1986.
        She was also general counsel for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and special counsel for Planned Parenthood of New York City. In 1974, she was a founding member of the Women's Forum, an organization of women of achievement and influence from diverse fields.
        In 1961, she argued successfully for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America against a suit asking the Supreme Court to rule on Connecticut laws that would have made it a crime to use birth-control devices or for doctors to advise their use. The Court declined 5 to 4 to rule on the laws.
        In 1965, Mrs. Pilpel represented Dr. Benjamin Spock in a free-speech suit over whether advertising in his best-seller "Baby and Child Care," violated the public interest. The court ruled against Dr. Spock, who sought to block the ads.
        She graduated from Vassar College in 1932 and received a master's degree from Columbia University Graduate School in 1933. She received a law degree from Columbia in 1936.
        She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      