
        Dr. Leona Baumgartner Langmuir, a public health official who was New York City's Commissioner of Health from 1954 to 1962 and later was an assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Tuesday in Chilmark, Mass. She was 88 years old and lived Chilmark.
        She died of polycythemia, a blood ailment, said her husband, Dr. Alexander D. Langmuir.
        Dr. Baumgartner, as she was known during her career, joined the Department of Health in 1937 and rose to become its first female commissioner. Characteristically, she shrugged off the distinction, as she did again in 1962 when President John F. Kennedy appointed her to head the Office of Technical Cooperation and Research at A.I.D., making her the highest-ranking woman in the United States Government at the time.
        In 1966 Dr. Baumgartner was named visiting professor of social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, a post she held until she retired in 1972. Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.
        In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe. She was credited with persuading President Lyndon B. Johnson to reverse a policy that had prevented the agency from including birth control in its support of health programs in underdeveloped countries.
        Dr. Baumgartner was born in Chicago and raised in Lawrence, Kan., where her father taught zoology at the University of Kansas. She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the university and was a Rockefeller Research Fellow at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Munich before winning a Sterling Fellowship to study at Yale, where she took a Ph.D. in immunology and went on to receive an M.D. from the Yale Medical School.
        After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position. Safeguarding Public Health
        She left for 18 months in the late 1940's to become associate chief of the United States Children's Bureau, returning to the Health Department in 1950 as assistant commissioner. In 1953 she left again to become executive director of the nonprofit New York Foundation but returned a year later when Mayor Robert F. Wagner promised her a free hand as commissioner.
        A woman of seemingly boundless energy, Dr. Baumgartner raced about the city on inspection tours and spoke out on sanitary failures of restaurant kitchens, day nurseries and anywhere else she felt the public health could be safeguarded. For several years she gave a health-education message to a nationwide television audience on a morning program hosted by Arlene Francis.
        In contrast to most large cities, as many as 35 percent of the babies born in New York were seen in the city's well-baby and immunization clinics under her direction. Her management of emergency maternity and infant-care clinics for dependents of military personnel in World War II was recognized as innovative.
        After the war she undertook a thorough revision of the city's sanitary code and expanded a public health laboratory that had already won acclaim in the field. In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
        Dr. Baumgartner was an early advocate of the Salk vaccine to immunize the public against polio, and one of her last achievements as health commissioner was to win a political battle to fluoridate the city's water supply to prevent tooth decay.
        Among the honors Dr. Baumgartner received were the Sedgwick Medal and the Lasker Award of the American Public Health Association and the Public Welfare Award of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Baumgartner's first husband, Nathaniel M. Elias, a chemical engineeer, died in 1964. In 1970 she married Dr. Langmuir, an epidemiologist, who survives.
      