
        Bennetta Bullock Washington, an educator and a former director of the Women's Job Corps, died Tuesday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. She was 73 years old and lived in Washington.
        Dr. Washington, who was being treated for complications from a stroke, died of cardiac arrest, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Imbued with the desire to educate the poor and culturally deprived, Dr. Washington believed that all children, including poor, black, inner-city youngsters, have potential.
        The daughter of a prominent Baptist minister, she was the wife of Walter Washington, the first elected Mayor of the District of Columbia. During his tenure, 1967 to 1979, she was regarded as one of his two top advisers.
        She began her teaching career in a special school for disturbed youths called Boys Junior-Senior High. She was named principal of Cardozo High School in 1961, where she initiated an academic and work-study program that became a model for the National Teacher Corps.
        In 1964 she started a Job Corps program for women, setting up training centers around the country. In 1973 she became an assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, specializing in the education, vocational training and counseling of men and women in urban and rural ghettos. She retired in 1981.
        Dr. Washington wrote three books about the effects of poverty on the learning process, was a trustee for several colleges and was a member of Presidential committees on youth, hunger and employment of the handicapped.
        She graduated from Dunbar High School in Washington and from Howard University, where she receieved her bachelor's and master's degrees. In 1939 she earned a doctorate from Catholic University.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Bennetta Jules-Rosette, an anthropologist, of Leucadia, Calif.; two brothers, Dr. Samuel C. Bullock, of Philadelphia, and Joseph B. Bullock, of Washington; a granddaughter, and a great-granddaughter.
      