
        Coral Browne, an actress who had leading tragic and comic roles on the stage, mostly in London, and played urbane characters in occasional films, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 77 years old.
        She died of breast cancer, and her husband, the actor Vincent Price, was at her bedside, a family spokesman said.
        The Australian-born actress with chiseled features and a patrician manner began appearing with the Old Vic in London in 1951 in such Shakespearean plays as "Othello," "King Lear," "Troilus and Cressida," "Hamlet" and "Macbeth."
        With equal ease, she also starred on the West End over the decades in such American hits as "The Man Who Came to Dinner" and "My Sister Eileen" through "The Pleasure of His Company" and "Toys in the Attic."  An Early Start, Long Run
        In films, Miss Browne was the cynical and tippling actress and friend of the title character in "Auntie Mame" in 1958. She also appeared in "The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone" (1961), "Dr. Crippen" (1964), "The Night of the Generals" (1967), "The Killing of Sister George" (1968) and "The Ruling Class" (1972). She essayed the horror film in "Theater of Blood" in 1973. Her co-star was Mr. Price, to whom she was married a year later.
        Coral Edith Browne was born on July 23, 1913, in Melbourne, Australia, and studied art and scenic design. At 17, she filled in for an actress and liked it so well she changed direction, appearing in 28 plays in Australia. She received a 21st-birthday trip to London from her father, a restaurateur, started working in the theater and never stopped.
        In 1984, she won Britain's best-actress award for her performance in Alan Bennett's television film "An Englishman Abroad," which was based on her own encounter with the British spy Guy Burgess in Moscow in 1958 while she was touring with the Old Vic in "Hamlet."
        Miss Browne also triumphed in 1985 in "Dreamchild," playing the octogenarian who as a girl had inspired Lewis Carroll to write "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland." She is survived by her husband.
      