
        Jean Camper Cahn, a lawyer who helped establish Federal financing of legal services to the poor and was a co-founder of the now-defunct Antioch School of Law in Washington, died on Wednesday at her home in Miami Beach. She was 55 years old.
        She died of breast cancer, said her husband and law associate, Edgar S. Cahn.
        Mrs. Cahn spent most of her career pursuing legal and social causes in Washington, where the Cahns lived for two decades until they moved to Florida in 1984.
        In one of her latest cases, argued in a Federal District Court in Florida, a decision handed down a week before her death upheld her contention that money distributed under the Older Americans Act must be aimed at benefiting those in greatest need. A Family of Activists
        Mrs. Cahn was born into a family of social activists. Her father, Dr. John E. T. Camper, a physician in Baltimore, was a founder of the first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in that city, where she was born and reared.Regular visitors to the home included Thurgood Marshall, who was to become the first black Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and the singer Paul Robeson, who was her godfather.
        While at Swarthmore College she met Mr. Cahn, a fellow student whose ancestors had been rabbis and lawyers for seven generations. The couple married in 1957 when she graduated and he was in graduate study of English at Yale.
        Mrs. Cahn converted to Judaism and, at her husband's urging, applied for and won a scholarship to Yale Law School. Their elder son, Jonathan, was born on the day of her first examinations at law school, and their younger son, Reuben, was born a year later, while they were living and studying at Cambridge in England on a Fulbright fellowship.
        Returning to New Haven, Mrs. Cahn served as associate general counsel for the New Haven Redevelopment Agency and in the country's first neighborhood legal services program, the Dixwell offices of Community Progress Inc., financed by the Ford Foundation. Joined War on Poverty
        In 1964, during their final year in New Haven, the Cahns jointly wrote an article for The Yale Law Journal proposing a national system of legal services to the poor as part of what was to become the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty.
        They moved to Washington that year, he to enter private law practice and she to take a post in the Office of Economic Opportunity. Mrs. Cahn was the first director of the National Legal Services Program in the O.E.O. and later founded the Urban Law Institute at George Washington University.
        Mrs. Cahn attracted national notice in 1967 and 1968 as a lawyer for Adam Clayton Powell, a popular Harlem Congressman who was battling in court to reverse his 1967 expulsion from the House of Representatives for misuse of public funds and other transgressions. (The Congressman sat out the 90th Congress and subsequently won a special election and joined the 91st Congress in 1969. His expulsion was later found illegal by the United States Supreme Court. Mr. Powell died in 1972.)
        In 1971 the Cahns co-founded the Antioch School of Law, which placed emphasis on serving the poor and trained prospective lawyers in social activism. Eight years later, Antioch College in Ohio, with which the school was initially affiliated, dismissed the Cahns as co-deans. The law school eventually became autonomous and, largely because of severe financial problems, it closed in 1988.
        Mrs. Cahn continued to teach and to practice law. In 1984 she was a distinguished visiting professor at Middlebury College in Vermont, and in 1986 she was a distinguished visiting scholar at the London School of Economics. From 1986 until her death she was counsel to the Miami law firm of Fernandez-Caubi, Fernandez, Cancio & Allen.
        In addition to Mr. Cahn, she is survived by their sons, Jonathan, a member of the law firm of Steptoe & Johnson in Washington, and Reuben, a public defender in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; her mother, Florine Camper of Baltimore; two brothers, Nixon and John Camper, and three sisters, Elizabeth Jones, Mary Lou Redd and Ella Johns, all of Baltimore.
      