
        Eva Le Gallienne, who as an actress, producer, director, translator, writer and teacher was for many decades one of the grand figures of the American stage, died late Monday night at her home in Weston, Conn. She was 92 years old.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said a friend, Anne Kaufman Schneider.
        A commanding presence on the stage and a strong-minded director, Miss Le Gallienne was actually a slight and, according to her friends, a shy and private person, her affections being concentrated on her dogs and other pets. In a memoir, she expressed surprise at being called beautiful by critics; she said she thought beauty might be a burden.
        She was dedicated to the theater from early childhood, two aunts and an uncle having been successful English actors. She was born in London on Jan. 11, 1899, the daughter of Richard Le Gallienne, a then-famous poet and journalist, and the former Julie Norregard, a Danish journalist. Her parents were divorced when Eva was 4 years old, and she and her mother moved to Paris. Saw Bernhardt Act
        There, as a young girl, she saw Sarah Bernhardt act, and was taken backstage to meet the star. The experience was to determine the course of Miss Le Gallienne's own life.
        "It made such an enormous impression on me that I thought, 'That's what I'd like to do,' " she said.
        Eva was 15 when Constance Collier, a family friend, got her a walk-on role in Maeterlinck's "Monna Vanna" in London. She attended a drama school for a few months, but left for a part as a cockney servant girl in a minor comedy -- and brought down the house.
        On the strength of rave reviews and encouragement from theater folk, Miss Le Gallienne and her mother left wartime London in 1915 for New York. Her bright expectations were not immediately realized. The first two plays in which she found work were failures, and she was dismissed from the cast of another play during its out-of-town tryouts. She spent a season on the road and in summer stock.  First Success
        Finally, at the age of 20, she enjoyed her first big success, opposite Sidney Blackmer in Arthur Richman's "Not So Long Ago." This was followed by a still greater hit in 1921 with Joseph Schildkraut in the Theater Guild's production of Molnar's "Liliom."
        In 1923, she had another hit in the star role in "The Swan" by Molnar. During its long run in 1923 and again in 1924-25, she became obsessed with the need for a repertory theater.
        "Miss Le G.," as generations of theater people called her, came closer than any other person to endowing the United States with a permanent company performing repertory in the manner of the Old Vic, the Comedie Francaise and the Moscow Art Theater.
        Without any government subsidy, she very nearly realized her dream. Willingly abandoning a career as a Broadway star in 1926, she founded the Civic Repertory Theater and staged classics at popular prices that filled the old 14th Street Theater for six seasons.
        The Civic Rep's production of "Peter Pan," with the actress sailing to the balcony on an invisible wire, enchanted masses of children, and Josephine Hutchinson as "Alice in Wonderland" with Miss Le Gallienne as the White Queen enchanted grownups as well.
        Among the company's apprentices were such hopeful novices as Burgess Meredith, John Garfield, J. Edward Bromberg and Howard Da Silva.
        But although the Civic Repertory played in the main to full houses, the box office, with a top ticket price of $1.50, never quite met its budget. The company's wealthy patrons were hit by the Depression, donations dwindled and the theater closed in 1933. By then it had given 1,581 performances of 34 plays -- 32 of which Miss Le Gallienne had directed. She also acted in a majority of the plays.
        At the end of the 1930-31 season, Miss Le Gallienne was severely burned in the explosion of a gasoline stove at her country home in Weston. The use of her hands was only partly restored in a series of operations, but she so mastered the handicap that few in her audiences perceived it.
        After a series of operations on her crippled hands, she directed and starred on Broadway in Rostand's "L'Aiglon" with Ethel Barrymore.  'Rather Play Ibsen Than Eat'
        After its long run, Miss Le Gallienne performed the balcony scene from "Romeo and Juliet" in vaudeville, and translated, staged and acted in Ibsen's "Rosmersholm." It failed, using up her financial reserves. Long afterward, she wrote, "I would rather play Ibsen than eat -- and that's often just what it amounts to."
        With her longtime companion, the late actress Marion Evensen, she moved to the estate at Weston, which she had bought at a prosperous time in 1926. There, with barnyard and forest creatures, cats and a kennel of cairn terriers, she busily gardened, wove, wrote and studied for the rest of her life -- but never abandoned the theater.
        She lectured at colleges, toured frequently in plays and realized a youthful ambition by playing "Hamlet," in a summer production that she staged with the young Uta Hagen as Ophelia. For the Theater Guild, she directed a series of revivals at popular prices.
        During the war years, the actress also toured for the Guild as Mrs. Malaprop in "The Rivals" and returned to Broadway as a star opposite Joseph Schildkraut in two successes: "Uncle Harry" by Thomas Job and a new "Cherry Orchard." She had also produced the play and helped to translate it.
        With Margaret Webster and Cheryl Crawford, Miss Le Gallienne helped organize the American Repertory Theater in 1946, but the reviews were mixed, the costs were high and the three leaders did not always agree. The first season was the last.
        In 1958, her television production of "The Bridge of San Luis Rey" was described by Jack Gould, the New York Times critic, as "unforgettable" and her part as "acting at its supreme best." Played Queen Elizabeth
        Another memorable role was her performance as Queen Elizabeth in Schiller's "Mary Stuart," which she did on stage across the country periodically from 1957 through 1962, and also on television.
        As translator, director and a star of Chekhov's "Seagull" in 1964, Miss Le Gallienne received from Adlai E. Stevenson the award of the American National Theater and Academy. She got another ANTA award on her 78th birthday in 1977.
        She was then on tour, in "The Royal Family." The revival of the Edna Ferber-George S. Kaufman comedy based on the Barrymore family was a hit of the 1976 Broadway season and a triumph for Miss Le Gallienne, who played the mother of the tribe, skipping girlishly upstairs in Act I and descending like an elderly queen in Act III.
        As a result of her work in "The Royal Family," she received New York City's cultural award, the Handel Medallion, and the observation by the actress Rosemary Harris:
        "If you listen to Miss Le G., you can hear 15 shades of meaning in 15 syllables."
        In 1981 Miss Le Gallienne returned to Broadway in "To Grandmother's House We Go," which ran for only 61 performances. Returned as White Queen
        But her enthusiasm for her next Broadway project was boundless, since it involved her co-directing a late 1982 revival of her beloved "Alice in Wonderland" and again assuming the role of the White Queen. It, too, however, was a flop, closing after 21 regular performances.
        In 1986, President Ronald Reagan awarded her the National Medal of Arts.
        Miss Le Gallienne traveled everywhere for many years with a two-pound Yorkshire terrier, Nana, in a little basket.
        After observing two barnyard hens, she wrote a children's book, "Flossie and Bossie: A Moral Tale." She also translated "Seven Tales by Hans Christian Andersen" and wrote a bio graphy, "The Mystic in the Theater: Eleonora Duse" (1966).
        Stagestruck to the end, she once recalled a young woman complaining that she had never seen Sarah Bernhardt, Sacha Guitry, Isadora Duncan or Duse. "I thought to myself," Miss Le Gallienne said, " 'I wouldn't change places with you for anything; not even to be 20 again!' "
        There are no survivors.
      