
        Sylvia F. Porter, the author and newspaper columnist who gained wide readership by making business and financial news easy for the general public to understand, died on Wednesday at her home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. She was 77 years old.
        She died of complications from emphysema, her husband, James Fox, said.
        Miss Porter, who wrote more than a score of books on investment, taxes and other economic subjects, also reached 40 million readers through her column on personal finance. It was syndicated by The Los Angeles Times and carried five days a week by 450 newspapers around the world.
        From the mid-1930's, when her column began appearing regularly in The New York Post, Miss Porter specialized in reporting events of the financial and business worlds in terms that translated what she called their "bafflegab." Her arrival on the economic scene came at a propitious time: the public was slowly recovering from deep disillusionment with a Wall Street community that many blamed for plunging the country into the Great Depression.
        In 1978 she moved her column from The Post to The Daily News, where it continued under the title "Your Money."  Molded by 1929 Market Crash
        Miss Porter was born into a Russian-Jewish family in Patchogue, L.I., on June 18, 1913. Her father was a physician, and her mother became a successful milliner. She grew up in Brooklyn and was a freshman at Hunter College who intended to major in English literature and history when the stock market crashed in 1929.
        Her mother had invested $30,000 in the bull market of the late 1920's and lost it all. The daughter rethought her career goals and plunged into the study of economics. She earned a Phi Beta Kappa key at Hunter and graduated magna cum laude in 1932, the same year that she and Reed F. Porter, a bank employee, were married.
        She went to work for a small investment counseling firm in Wall Street and gained firsthand knowledge of the stock and bond markets, currency fluctuations, business cycles and other financial basics. She also took graduate courses at the New York University School of Business Administration.
        She began writing in specialized financial journals, using the byline S. F. Porter to conceal the fact that she was a woman in a field then dominated by men. In 1934 she wrote a weekly column in The American Banker on United States Government securities and soon started her own information service on Government bonds. A Crusader Role Adopted
        In 1935 Miss Porter began an occasional column in The New York Post on financial news. In a matter of months she was a regular writer on Wall Street for the paper, and in 1936 she was appointed financial editor. She wrote a daily column that was published under the title "S. F. Porter Says."
        Miss Porter became a crusader against what she perceived as economic injustice. She bluntly criticized Government officials for their fiscal policies, at one point asking in an article in The American Banker whether the Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau Jr., had been guily of "obstinacy, stupidity or sheer ill advice" in managing Government bonds.
        Mr. Morgenthau, like many other figures in the economic world, was unaware that S. F. Porter was a woman. When he did find out, and when officials acknowledged that many of her barbs were justified, he sent her a bouquet of roses.
        Other Washington figures were not so forgiving. When she attacked Senator Edwin Johnson of Colorado for his advocacy of silver, he called her "the biggest liar in the United States." Author of Many Books
        In 1939 she wrote the first of her many successful books, "How to Make Money in Government Bonds." The book combined her inside knowledge with a popular style, making her information useful to professionals and at the same time accessible to the public.
        In her second book, "If War Comes to the American Home," published in 1941 on the eve of America's entry into World War II, she drew on the experience of World War I to tell families how they might be affected in a war economy.
        A reviewer in The New York Times summed up her approach this way: "Facts, figures, broad word-pictures and succinct arguments are all presented with conversational ease."
        Although her books were published under her full name and she had been heard on radio, it was not until 1942 that The Post changed the title of her column to "Sylvia F. Porter." The newspaper's acknowledgement of her sex brought prominence on the lecture circuit and requests for articles from women's magazines and periodicals of general circulation.
        Her column was syndicated, beginning in 1947, and she collaborated with the tax specialist J. K. Lasser on financial handbooks for taxpayers, as well as with other specialists on parallel projects in various economic fields.  Posthumous Book Planned
        In 1975 she published "Sylvia Porter's Money Book: How to Earn It, Spend It, Save It, Invest It, Borrow It and Use It to Better Your Life." It sold more than a million copies. Her most recent book, "Sylvia Porter's Your Finances in the 1990's," appeared last year, and her last book, "Planning Your Retirement," is to be published in September.
        Not all Miss Porter's ventures were successful. In 1984 she started a magazine, Sylvia Porter's Personal Finance, which rapidly became the third largest periodical in its field, behind Time Inc.'s Money and the Kiplinger organization's Changing Times. But the stock-market plunge in 1987 dealt her publication a lethal blow, and in 1989 its list of 400,000 subscribers was bought by Kiplinger.
        Miss Porter's second husband, G. Sumner Collins, died in 1977. Besides Mr. Fox, a public-relations counsel, she is survived by a daughter, Chris Del Cuore of Norway, Me.; a stepson, Sumner Collins of Medical Lake, Wash.; a brother, Dr. John L. Feldman, a physician of Palos Verdes, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      