
        Margaret L. Suckley, an aide and confidante of Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and an archivist at the nation's first Presidential Library at Hyde Park, N.Y., died on Saturday at Wilderstein, her home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 99 years old.
        She died of congestive heart failure, her family said.
        Miss Suckley, who was known as Daisy, was a distant cousin and close neighbor of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt and lived her entire life in the landmark house overlooking the Hudson River near Hyde Park built by her grandfather in 1852.
        In 1940, Miss Suckley, who raised Scottish terriers, gave the President a puppy he named Fala. The dog soon became the country's most photographed animal. Miss Suckley was the co-author of a children's book about Fala and took part in producing two short films depicting the dog's life in the limelight. Center of Political Uproar
        Fala became the center of a political uproar in the 1944 Presidential campaign, when Republicans charged that the Navy had sent a warship to rescue the dog after he had been left behind during a visit by President Roosevelt to the Aleutian Islands. The President turned the story to his advantage by expressing mock indignation that his Republican adversaries would attack "even my little dog Fala."
        Miss Suckley was largely invisible to the general public although she traveled with the President on wartime inspection trips and to meetings with heads of state and allied military leaders. She was at the Little White House in Warm Springs, Ga., when President Roosevelt suffered a fatal cerebral hemorrhage on April 12, 1945.
        She continued on the staff of the Roosevelt Library until she retired in 1963. She often spoke about the Roosevelt Presidency from her privileged station close to the family but was unassuming and meticulously factual and circumspect in her recollections. Nurse's Aide During War
        Miss Suckley was born at Wilderstein and was a descendant of several prominent American families of the 17th and 18th centuries, including the Livingstons and Beekmans. She attended Bryn Mawr and during World War I served as a nurse's aide at a military hospital on Ellis Island.
        In 1980, she helped establish Wilderstein Preservation, dedicated to the maintenance and public enjoyment of her 45-acre riverfront property whose grounds were designed by Calvert Vaux, the noted 19th century park architect, and whose Queen Anne interiors were the work of J. B. Tiffany. Last year Wilderstein received National Historic Landmark status.
        Miss Suckley, the last of seven brothers and sisters, is survived by two nieces, Margaret Hendrick of Annapolis, Md., and Catherine Hambley of Rhinebeck.
      