
        Mildred Dunnock, the actress best known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "Death of a Salesman," died Friday evening at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Oak Bluffs, Mass. She was 90 years old, said her daughter, Linda McGuire.
        Her daughter said that Miss Dunnock died of old age. She lived in West Tisbury, Mass.
        Miss Dunnock was nominated for Academy Awards for her film performances as Linda Loman, the salesman's wife, in "Death of a Salesman" (1951) and for her performance in Tennessee Williams's "Baby Doll" (1956).
        She was small and slight with a thin, mobile mouth, and she excelled at playing the parts of mothers and eccentric ladies of various kinds. Her admirers praised her power to move audiences by making them care for the characters she portrayed.  Broadway's First Linda Loman
        Miss Dunnock originated the Linda Loman role on the stage, appearing with Lee J. Cobb as Willy Loman in the 1949 Broadway production of "Death of a Salesman," by Arthur Miller. She later played that part in the film, in regional productions and on television.
        Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures."
        In an interview late in her career, Miss Dunnock observed: "I like to play parts that are not like myself. I'm not the least bit exciting. I'm an ordinary person in an ordinary life, but in my imagination there's no stopping me."
        Among her other major portrayals were Lavinia in Lillian Hellman's "Another Part of the Forest," Big Mama in Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," and Miss Ronberry in "The Corn Is Green," a 1940 Emlyn Williams play starring Ethel Barrymore.  Many New Haven Productions
        Miss Dunnock performed in numerous stage productions at the Long Wharf theater in New Haven over the decades, including the parts of Mrs. Tyrone in Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and the mother in Mr. Williams's "Glass Menagerie."
        She taught in the late 1960's at the Yale Drama School. Over the years she also taught at Barnard College and at the Brearley School in Manhattan.
        Mildred Dunnock was born in Baltimore Jan. 25, 1901, her daughter said. She earned an A.B. degree from Goucher College there and an M.A. from Columbia. She first appeared on Broadway in the early 1930's.
        She became, as one New York Times writer, Warren Hoge, put it in 1976, "an institution among first-nighters, the creator of several major characters in American dramatic literature, a performer studied and revered by younger actors and actresses."
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      