
        Lee Remick, the elegant actress who illumined dozens of films and many stage and television plays, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 55 years old.
        The actress died of cancer after fighting the disease for two years, a spokesman for the family said. In one of her last public appearances, a star was dedicated in her honor in April on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
        Ms. Remick, an uncommonly versatile performer, portrayed characters as disparate as a seductive cheerleader and a tormented alcoholic, along with such historical figures as Lady Randolph Churchill and Eleanor Roosevelt.
        Once billed as "America's answer to Brigitte Bardot," she was as much admired for her acting abilities as for her bubbly attractiveness. Writing in The New York Times of her performance in the 1980 television movie "The Women's Room," John J. O'Connor said, "Lee Remick proves once again she is an uncommonly gifted actress whose somewhat fragile, almost stereotyped good looks tend to distract one from that fact."
        Ms. Remick, who was born in Quincy, Mass., studied dance as a child and won her first acting job at age 16 with a summer-stock company on nearby Cape Cod. This led to a part in a short-lived Broadway comedy, "Be Your Age," in 1953, several more summer-theater appearances and a string of television roles on "Philco Playhouse," "Hallmark Hall of Fame," "Playhouse 90" and other programs in the mid-1950's. 'I Chucked School'
        Later in her career, when asked about her decision to give up school in favor of acting, she said: "I'd cut classes to go to rehearsals, then stay up all night studying, but it wasn't working, and one day a very kind teacher advised me to choose one or the other. I guess the strain was showing. Anyway, it was an easily made decision. I chucked school, told my parents and then slept for 10 days."
        After the director Elia Kazan cast Ms. Remick as a seductive cheerleader in his 1957 film, "A Face in the Crowd," she gave highly praised performances in Martin Ritt's "Long Hot Summer" (1958), Otto Preminger's "Anatomy of a Murder" (1959) and Mr. Kazan's "Wild River" (1960). Her portrait of a happily married housewife turned alcoholic in Blake Edwards's "Days of Wine and Roses" (1963) brought her an Academy Award nomination. Subsequent film roles included "Baby the Rain Must Fall" (1965), "Loot" (1972), "Sometimes a Great Notion" (1972) and "The Europeans" (1979).
        She chose her roles with care. "After 'Anatomy,' in which I played a kind of tramp, for instance, I could have followed up with more of the same," she told an interviewer. "Reinforcing my 'image' by becoming a sex symbol would have been one way to be more strongly identified as a star, but I had no interest in doing that. I can't be something I'm not." On Broadway and Television
        Ms. Remick's most successful Broadway performance was in Frederick Knott's 1966 thriller, "Wait Until Dark," about a blind woman at the mercy of three criminals. Her other stage credits included "Anyone Can Whistle," the 1964 musical by Arthur Laurents and Stephen Sondheim, and a Boston production of John Pielmeier's play "Agnes of God" in 1982.
        Ms. Remick was a frequent star in television mini-series in the 1970's and 80's. She played the title role in "Jennie: Lady Randolph Churchill" (1975) and also starred in "Ike" (1979), "Haywire" (1980), "Toughlove" (1985) and "Nutcracker: Money, Madness, Murder" (1987).
        Reviewing Ms. Remick's performance in "Nutcracker," a 1987 NBC mini-series in which she played a woman who manipulates her son into committing murder, Mr. O'Connor wrote in The New York Times: "If she had been born with Bette Davis eyes or Katharine Hepburn cheekbones, she might long ago have been recognized as one of this country's most outstanding dramatic actresses."  Of Preparation and Humility
        Ms. Remick was known to prepare intensively for her roles, attending meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous for her work in "Days of Wine and Roses" and spending a month of blindfolded mornings at New York's Lighthouse for the Blind before starring in "Wait Until Dark."
        "I'm really a housewife who is incidentally an actress," Ms. Remick told an interviewer. On another occasion she said: "People tell me that I have a special quality in films, but if I do I take no intellectual credit for it. It's pure instinct. I think I've held on to certain qualities within myself which have been strong."
        Ms. Remick's marriage to William A. Colleran, a producer and director, ended in divorce in 1969. Her survivors include her husband of 21 years, Kip Gowans, a producer; a daughter, Kate Colleran Sullivan; a son, Matthew Remick Colleran; two stepdaughters, Justine Gowans Solly and Nicola Gowans, and her mother, Pat Packard.
        Correction:  July 29, 1991, Monday
        An obituary on July 3 about the actress Lee Remick omitted one of her survivors. He is her brother Bruce Waldo Remick of Springfield, Va.
      