
        Irina Nijinska, a dancer and teacher who spent much of her life in a one-woman crusade to preserve the choreography of her mother, Bronislava Nijinska, died on Tuesday at the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital in Inglewood, Calif. She was 77 years old and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
        She died of cardiac arrest, her husband, Gibbs S. Raetz, said.
        Miss Nijinska's career was devoted to the championing of a single choreographer. She believed, as did most dance historians, that her mother -- who first achieved acclaim with Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in the 1920's -- was among this century's greatest choreographers. And she traveled the world reviving the elder Nijinska's works with selfless devotion.
        In New York she staged productions for the Feld Ballet, the Joffrey Ballet and Dance Theater of Harlem. She was also a familiar figure in companies as diverse as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet, the National Ballet of Holland, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Tulsa Ballet Theater and the Dance Corps of the State University of New York at Purchase.
        She most often revived two contrasting masterpieces by her mother: "Les Noces," a monumentally scaled depiction of a peasant wedding choreographed in 1923, and "Les Biches," a satire on the French Riviera "smart set" that received its premiere in 1924. In 1981, under Miss Nijinska's supervision, the Oakland Ballet became the first American company to perform "Les Noces." Four years later, the Feld Ballet danced it in New York and in 1989 it entered the repertories of the Joffrey Ballet and Dance Theater of Harlem.  Collaborative Efforts
        That year, the Harlem company offered an all-Bronislava Nijinska program of "Les Noces," "Les Biches" and "Rondo Capriccioso," which Irina Nijinska revived in association with the ballerina Rosella Hightower. In 1989, Irina Nijinska and Frank W. D. Ries, a dance historian, reconstructed another satire, "Le Train Bleu," for the Oakland Ballet.
        Wherever she went, Irina Nijinska amazed people with her inexhaustible vitality. She was a warmhearted, gregarious woman, and dancers who began by respecting her as a mentor came to cherish her as a friend. Although acquainted since childhood with famous choreographers and artists, she remained modest in manner. Typically, when a reporter asked if she wished to be addressed as Madame Nijinska, she laughed and replied, "Call me Irina. In our family, there is only
        one
        Madame Nijinska."
        It was a distinguished family. Her uncle was the legendary dancer and choreographer Vaslav Nijinsky, and her father, Alexander Kotchetovsky,was also a dancer.
        Miss Nijinska was born in St. Petersburg on Oct. 20, 1913, but received most of her training, from her mother and other teachers, in Paris. She made her debut with the Olga Spessivtzeva Ballet in 1930 and, adopting Nijinska as her professional surname, danced during the 30's with the ballet ensemble of the Opera Russe a Paris, the Ida Rubinstein Ballet, the Theatre de la Danse, Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes and the Polish Ballet. Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood. Miss Nijinska married Mr. Raetz, an aeronautical engineer, in 1946, and for much of the 1950's and 60's devoted herself to her family. When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
        In recent years, Miss Nijinska had sifted through her mother's notes to determine precisely how many works by Bronislava Nijinska were revivable. With the aid of Nina Youshkevitch, a New York teacher who had danced in ballets by Bronislava Nijinska in the 30's, she staged an excerpt from "Le Baiser de la Fee" last fall for a symposium sponsored by the Dance Critics Association and the Dance Collection of the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center. At the time of her death, she was hoping to revive "Bolero," "Chopin Concerto" and "Impressions de Music Hall."
        Miss Nijinska and Jean Rawlinson translated and edited "Early Memories," the first volume of Bronislava Nijinska's autobiography, which was published in 1981. Miss Nijinska was in the process of editing a sequel.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Natalie Raetz of Long Beach, Calif., and a son, George Raetz of Denver.
      