
        Mary Goldburt Siegel, a lawyer who in the 1920's helped break down barriers against women in the legal profession, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 years old.
        She died of lymphoma, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mrs. Siegel, a 1917 graduate of New York University Law School, passed the bar examination at a time when there were only a handful of women in the profession. In 1921, after leaving the profession for two years to have a baby, she began to search for a position as a law clerk. At the time, a year as a clerk was a requirement for being admitted to the bar. In a 1982 article written for The Women's Rights Law Reporter, she recalled that while such positions were readily available for men, there were practically none for women.
        After a long search, a law school classmate finally hired her at no salary. A few months later, she took another position that paid her $4 a week to do some law research, but in which she primarily ran errands. The salary was $1 a week more than what she had earned operating a sewing machine in a garment center sweatshop when she came from Russia in 1911. Men in similar law clerk positions were being paid $15 to $25 a week.
        She finished her apprenticeship at another law firm that gave her broader experience but paid her nothing.
        Her first courtroom experience produced other traumas. "When my case was called and I walked over to the appropriate table, a bailiff rushed over to direct me to where he said I belonged -- the spectator's bench," she wrote.
        A short while later, the judge presiding over the case asked to speak to the lawyers.
        "As I walked toward him, I was reproached by the judge, who virtually sneered when he repeated that he wanted to confer with the legal representatives, not an office stenographer," she added.
        Mrs. Siegel said that throughout her legal career she had to fight against the sexist attitudes of colleagues and clients, who usually expected her to work for a lower fee than her male counterparts. She had to prove herself constantly, she said, until the situation improved in the 1960's and 70's as more and more women became lawyers. She was in private practice when she retired about 10 years ago.
        Mrs. Siegel was an assistant corporation counsel for New York City during the administration of Mayor John F. Hylan in the 1920's.
        Her husband, Jacob, died in 1987. She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      