
        Colleen Dewhurst, one of America's foremost actresses, whose career on stage, screen and television spanned 40 years and earned her two Tony Awards and three Emmys, died Thursday night at her home in South Salem, N.Y. She was 67 years old.
        She died of cancer, said her son Alexander R. Scott, a theatrical stage manager and writer.
        Ms. Dewhurst was closely identified with the works of Eugene O'Neill. She was nominated for a Tony in 1973 for her performance as Christine in O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra," in which she was hailed as one of the United States' pre-eminent tragic actresses, and in 1974 won a Tony Award for her portrayal of Josie Hogan in the acclaimed revival of O'Neill's "Moon for the Misbegotten."
        Her most recent New York appearances were in 1987, as O'Neill's wife Carlotta Monterey O'Neill in "My Gene," a one-woman play by Barbara Gelb at the New York Shakespeare Festival, and on Broadway in 1988 as Mary Tyrone in O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and as Essie Miller in his "Ah, Wilderness!"  Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of the Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until May of this year.
        An imposing presence both in person and on stage, Ms. Dewhurst was known as a woman never hesitant about using her distinctive big throaty voice to express an opinion on almost any subject. In the theater, she conveyed a mature sexuality, a folkish earthiness; her feline smile, crinkly eyes and high cheekbones combined to soften her large stature and enable the audience to feel closer to her and to identify with her characters, who were often tragic.
        Her friends considered her passionate and caring. "She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper. She's a pushover, a pussycat. She's the madonna of the birds with broken wings."
        Colleen Dewhurst was born in Montreal on June 3, 1924. Her father was Fred Dewhurst, a hockey and football player who later became sales manager of a lighting concern. Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
        She attended Milwaukee-Downer Collegewhere she decided to become an actress. She moved to New York, attended the Academy of Dramatic Arts for two years, and studied acting privately with Joseph Anthony and Harold Clurman. But finding stage work was not easy.
        She once described the 10 years from 1948 to 1958 as desperate and frustrating. "It was murder -- murder," she said. She worked as a receptionist, an elevator operator and on a telephone switchboard between roles in summer stock from Tennessee to Maine and bit parts in New York.
        Ms. Dewhurst actually made her Broadway debut in a very small role as a dancer in Mr. Clurman's 1952 revival of O'Neill's "Desire Under the Elms." But her first big break came in the mid-1950's, when she came to the attention of Joseph Papp, who was just beginning his New York Shakespeare Festival, producing plays on the Lower East Side. Playing Kate in "The Taming of the Shrew" in 1956, she was seen by Brooks Atkinson, the chief theater critic of The New York Times. Mr. Atkinson praised her acting in print, and the public began to take notice.
        Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming performer, George C. Scott. The production was staged by Jose Quintero, who would be her director for many O'Neill roles.
        Early in 1959, she played Cleopatra to Mr. Scott's Antony in Shakespeare's "Antony and Cleopatra" for Mr. Papp at the Heckscher Theater. The next year, Ms. Dewhurst and Mr. Scott divorced their respective spouses (Ms. Dewhurst had wed the actor James Vickery in 1947) and married. They had two sons, divorced, then later remarried and divorced again.
        Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family."
        In 1963, she returned to Circle in the Square and to "Desire Under the Elms," but this time instead of being a dancer she was a co-star, with Mr. Scott and Rip Torn, portraying Abbie Putnam in a critically praised production directed by Mr. Quintero.
        Mr. Quintero also staged the 1974 production of "A Moon for the Misbegotten," in which she co-starred with Jason Robards. Writing in The New York Times, Clive Barnes said Ms. Dewhurst "spoke O'Neill as if it were being spoken for the first time -- and not the first time in a theater (you always hope for that) but for the first time in a certain New England farm, on a certain September night in 1923."
        Among her many screen credits was the recent movie "Dying Young," with Julia Roberts and her son Campbell Scott, who also acted with her in the Broadway revivals of "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and "Ah, Wilderness!"
        Her television appearances included three seasons playing Candice Bergen's mother on "Murphy Brown," for which she won an Emmy Award in 1989. She also received Emmys for her roles in "Between Two Women" and "And Those She Left Behind."
        Last year, as president of Equity, Ms. Dewhurst became embroiled in the union's dispute with the producer Cameron Mackintosh over whether Jonathan Pryce should be allowed to perform the role of a Eurasian pimp that he created in the London production of "Miss Saigon" when the show opened on Broadway.
        The union first barred Mr. Pryce and then reversed its decision, and he went on to win the Tony Award this year as best actor in a musical.
        In announcing the ban on Mr. Pryce and her support for the union's declaration that it was inappropriate in 1990 for a Caucasian actor to portray a Eurasian, Ms. Dewhurst said, "It's not censorship, because it wouldn't have been censoring for us to ask for the stopping of the minstrel show." She was widely criticized for her statement and her stand, but there were also many who supported her and the union. Active in Theatrical Causes
        Long active in theatrical causes, Ms. Dewhurst was a member of the board of the Actors' Fund of America, the theatrical charity and social services agency. She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS. She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund. In 1982, she was active in the unsuccessful fight to save the Morosco and Helen Hayes Theaters on Broadway from being torn down to make way for the Marriott Marquis Hotel.
        But it was acting rather than activism that she cared about most. "When I started acting -- just a kid -- it was, 'I like theater,' " she said some years ago. "Then it was, 'I love theater.' Now it's more than that."
        Ms. Dewhurst lived on a farm in South Salem, in upstate New York, with her companion of the last 16 years, the Broadway producer Ken Marsolais. The farm's population also includes eight cats, two dogs, one goat and a parrot. "The farm," Ms. Dewhurst wrote a few years ago, "is my eye in the storm, my sanity, my safety, my knowledge that there is a place that I do exist, that is my home."
        In addition to her sons, she is survived by two grandchildren. No public service is planned. DIVERSE ROLES, MAJOR AND MINOR
        Theater The Taming of the Shrew, 1956 Children of Darkness, 1958 Antony and Cleopatra, 1959, 1963 Caligula, 1960 All the Way Home, 1961 Desire Under the Elms, 1963 Ballad of the Sad Cafe, 1963 More Stately Mansions, 1967 Hello and Goodbye, 1969 Mourning Becomes Electra, 1973 A Moon for the Misbegotten, 1974 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, 1977 You Can't Take It With You, 1983 My Gene, 1987 Ah, Wilderness!, 1988 Long Day's Journey Into Night, 1988  Television And Those She Left Behind Anne of Avonlea Anne of Green Gables As Is Between Two Women The Crucible Lantern Hill A Moon for the Misbegotten Murphy Brown No Exit The Price The Women's Room  Films The Nun's Story, 1959 Man on a String, 1960 A Fine Madness, 1963 The Last Run, 1971 Cowboys, 1972 McQ, 1974 Annie Hall, 1977 Ice Castles, 1978 When a Stranger Calls, 1979 Final Assignment, 1980 Tribute, 1980 The Dead Zone, 1983 Dying Young, 1991
      