
        Nell Donnelly Reed, a pioneer in women's ready-to-wear clothing in the 1920's and 1930's, died Sunday morning at her home in Kansas City, Mo. She was 102 years old.
        In 1916, Mrs. Reed began making and selling ruffled dresses to replace the drab, cotton house dresses of the period. By the 1940's her clothing company was described as the largest of its kind in the world.
        Mrs. Reed said her frilly designs under the Nelly Don label helped challenge conventional thinking of pre-World War I America that it was impossible to give style to clothing in the cheap price range. Her first dresses sold for $1, considerably more than the average price of 69 cents. Savvy in Business
        Mrs. Reed was described by Fortune Magazine in 1935 as possibly the most successful businesswoman in the United States. She was considered one who was ahead of her time, being among the first business leaders in her city to offer paid group hospitalization for employees and an unlimited number of tuition-paid night courses and scholarships for their children at local colleges, according to The Kansas City Star.
        Through her business, the Donnelly Garment Company, a $3.5 million business with 1,000 employees in 1935, she helped turn Kansas City into a thriving ready-to-wear manufacturing center. Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
        In 1931 Mrs. Reed was the subject of national headlines when she and her chauffeur were kidnapped at gunpoint outside her home and held for ransom. The $75,000 ransom went unpaid and the two were released unharmed 32 hours later. Two men received life terms for their part in the abduction.
        The prosecutor in the kidnapping case was James A. Reed, a former United States Senator and former Mayor of Kansas City, whom she would later marry. Mr. Reed, who served three terms in the United States Senate, from 1911 to 1929, died in 1944.  Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland. At age 16, she married Mr. Donnelly and moved with him to Kansas City.
        She said she began adding frills to house dresses so she could "make women look pretty when they are washing dishes," she once said.
        The rapid growth of her company in the 1930's brought efforts by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to organize her plant, but despite legal maneuvers that reached the United States Supreme Court, her company was still union free in 1948.
        Mrs. Reed retired from her company in 1956 and it changed its name to Nelly Don Inc. The company went public in 1958, but eventually filed for bankruptcy.
        After her retirement, Mrs. Reed continued her involvement in business and civic affairs in Kansas City, serving on the school board and boards of numerous social and cultural institutions, including the Kansas City Art Institute and the Midwest Research Institute.
        She is survived by a son, David, and four grandchildren.
      