
        Julie Bovasso, an actress and playwright in the avant-garde theater Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway, died Saturday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. She was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Ms. Bovasso died of cancer, said her literary agent, Helen Harvey.
        In the mid-1950's, Ms. Bovasso established the experimental Tempo Playhouse on St. Marks Place in Manhattan and introduced works of the Theater of the Absurd, including those of the playwrights Jean Genet, Eugene Ionesco and Michel de Ghelderode, to the professional theater in the United States. In the New York premiere of "The Maids" by Genet, she won an Obie Award as best Off Broadway actress in 1956.
        Ms. Bovasso also won Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle awards in 1972 as best actress for her performance in "The Screens" by Genet. 3 Obies in the Same Year
        In 1970, she won three Obies, as best playwright, director and actress, for "Gloria and Esperanza," which opened at Cafe La Mama. When the work moved to the ANTA Theater on Broadway, Clive Barnes wrote in The New York Times that "it represents La Mama both at its most adventurous and at its most self-indulgent."
        The writer Arthur Sainer, in the book "Contemporary Dramatists," described Ms. Bovasso as "a kind of mad mathematician, marshalling people and events into lunatic propositions and hallucinatory equations." Her other plays include "The Moon Dreamers," "Schubert's Last Serenade," "Monday on the Way to Mercury Island," "The Nothing Kid" and "Angelo's Wedding." Turbulent Productions
        In 1973, Ms. Bovasso was hired to direct "In the Boom Boom Room" by David Rabe, the first production of Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center. But she was replaced a few days before the play opened, and Mr. Papp became the director.
        When "Angelo's Wedding" was presented by the Circle Repertory Company in 1985, several weeks of difficult relations among the playwright, the director and several cast members culminated in an altercation at the theater during a performance.
        Marshall W. Mason, the theater's artistic director, said at the time that Ms. Bovasso attacked an intern and a house manager who had tried to evict her from the theater for disturbing the cast. At the beginning of Act III, Mr. Mason said, Ms. Bovasso went onstage to tell the audience to go home.
        Ms. Bovasso was born in Brooklyn. She attended the High School of Music and Art and City College.
        She is survived by her mother, Angela Bovasso of Staten Island, and a brother, Bernard X. Bovasso of Saugerties, N.Y.
        Correction:  September 20, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about the actress and playwright Julie Bovasso omitted the films in which she appeared. They include "Willie and Phil" (1980), "The Verdict" (1982), "Moonstruck" (1987) and "Betsy's Wedding" (1990).
      