
        Olga Spessivtzeva, a Russian ballerina whose dancing was praised for its Romantic purity and spiritual radiance, died on Monday at Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 96 years old and lived at the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y.
        She died of pneumonia, said Elizabeth Lopukhin, a social worker at the nursing home.
        Miss Spessivtzeva was acclaimed by critics in the 1920's and 30's as one of this century's most eloquent interpreters of "Giselle." In later years, her life was often compared to that of the ballet's tragic heroine. Just as Giselle, a frail, melancholy young woman, succumbs to madness in the ballet, so Miss Spessivtzeva had a series of mental breakdowns that ended her career.
        At the height of her performing powers, she was said to have been magical onstage. Anton Dolin, a former partner who became her biographer, once declared: "The quality of beauty she produced caused the heart to miss a beat. She had a calm, glowing integrity, a serenely devotional approach to her work."
        Miss Spessivtzeva was born in Rostov, Russia, and was trained at the Imperial Ballet School of St. Petersburg. After her graduation in 1913, she joined the Maryinsky (now the Kirov) Ballet and, despite a bout with tuberculosis, continued to dance during the 1920's in western Europe with Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. Diaghilev had long admired the ballerina Anna Pavlova, but he said, "My astonishment was then unbounded when I met Spessivtzeva, a creature finer and even purer than Pavlova." As choreographer for the Diaghilev company, George Balanchine created the title role of "La Chatte" for Miss Spessiv tzeva in 1927. Last Performance in 1937
        The ballerina, who occasionally shortened her name to Spessiva, also appeared with the Paris Opera Ballet, the Colon ballet in Buenos Aires and the Camargo Society, a London organization that was one of the forerunners of the Royal Ballet.
        While touring the world in the mid-1930's with the Victor Dandre-Alexander Levitov Ballet, the successor to Pavlova's company, Miss Spessivtzeva began to suffer from increasingly serious breakdowns. She gave her last performance in 1937 and settled in New York the next year. She was hospitalized from 1943 to 1963, when, with the aid of several friends, including Mr. Dolin, she was able to move to the Tolstoy Foundation.
        There she led a quiet life. Her health improved, and members of the dance world occasionally visited her. Gerald Arpino, who choreographed a tribute to her, "L'Air d'Esprit," for the Joffrey Ballet in 1978, recalled in an interview: "She had this fragile, unworldly quality. She seemed to transcend time."
        There are no immediate survivors. A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at St. Sergius Chapel in Valley Cottage.
      