
        Oona Chaplin, the daughter of one of the great tragic playwrights of the century, Eugene O'Neill, and wife of one of the screen's greatest comic geniuses, Charles Chaplin, died yesterday at the age of 66 in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland.
        She died of cancer of the pancreas, said her lawyer, Herbert Jacoby of New York City.
        Mrs. Chaplin, who became known as Lady Oona after her British-born husband was knighted in 1975, was an 18-year-old Brearley graduate and fledgling actress in 1943 when she became the fourth wife of the internationally beloved actor and director, who was then 54 years old. Their elopement so infuriated O'Neill, who was the same age as Chaplin, that he disinherited her.
        The Chaplins, who had eight children, lived most of their married life in their 18th-century mansion overlooking Lake Geneva. After her husband's death in 1977, Mrs. Chaplin stayed on, becoming something of a recluse. Renounced Citizenship
        Charles Chaplin, who grew up in the slums of London, championed leftist causes during the Cold War and was an ardent critic of the American Government.  In 1952 he went into self-imposed exile with his family. Two years later, it was learned that Mrs. Chaplin had renounced her American citzenship and become an English subject like her husband.
        In 1967 Mrs. Chaplin returned to New York without fanfare to visit her mother, who was dying. Chaplin did not return to the United States until 1975, when he was received in triumph and given a special Oscar.
        Throughout her life, Oona O'Neill Chaplin was a gracious, quiet presence overshadowed by her ebullient husband. Their home became a kind of intellectual watering hole; Pablo Casals, Nikita Khrushchev, Jawaharlal Nehru and Zhou Enlai were among those who visited the Chaplins in Switzerland.
        As a young and somewhat sensitive society beauty, Oona O'Neill had her own following. When she visited the West Coast in her brief attempt to become an actress, she received long daily letters from an admirer named "Jerry" -- the author J. D. Salinger. 'Oriental Objectivity'
        Her two best friends from Brearley also went to Hollywood and married famous older men. Carol Grace married the writer William Saroyan, and Gloria Vanderbilt married the conductor Leopold Stokowski. Gloria Vanderbilt once said of her fellow debutante that she possessed "a wonderful quality of oriental objectivity about life."
        She met Chaplin through a Hollywood agent who recommended her for a part in a Chaplin movie. Chaplin later said he had considered her too inexperienced at first, but changed his mind when he heard that a studio had offered her a contract.
        Mrs. Chaplin's parents had had a bitter divorce when she was 2, and she saw her father only infrequently as she grew up. She managed to survive her difficult childhood relatively unscathed, but her older brother, Shane, and a half-brother, Eugene O'Neill Jr., committed suicide.
        Mrs. Chaplin always told friends and interviewers that she was content to remain a wife and mother, and always said she never noticed the difference between her age and her husband's. "He is my world," she said in 1960. "I've never seen or lived anything else."
        She is survived by her children: Geraldine, the actress; Michael, Josephine, Victoria, Eugene, Jane, Annette-Emilie and James, and 17 grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 1, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary on Saturday about Oona O'Neill Chaplin misstated her age in some copies. Mrs. Chaplin was 66 years old, not 70.
      