
        Hallie Burnett Zeisel, a novelist, college teacher and co-editor of Story magazine from 1942 to 1971, died on Wednesday at the Steward Health Center in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 years old.
        She died of causes related to a stroke she suffered two years ago, said her daughter, Whitney Voss.
        The novelist, who was professionally known as Hallie Burnett, made her reputation as a nurturer of young talent at Story magazine.
        She joined the periodical in 1942 as assistant editor and new wife of its editor and founder, Whitney Ewing Burnett. Through the 1940's and 1950's, Story published known and unknown writers alike, paying the same standard fees. Salinger, Cheever, Etc.
        During her tenure, Mrs. Burnett helped publish the early short stories of writers like J. D. Salinger, John Cheever and William Saroyan.
        Then there was the young soldier named Joseph Heller who entered a writing contest held by the magazine. And there were stories from Carson McCullers and Truman Capote. A Harvard freshman named Norman Mailer won a Story college-writing prize for a piece entitled "The Greatest Thing in the World."
        In addition to publishing Story, the Burnetts edited anthologies of stories and fiction, along with "Story Jubilee: Thirty-Three Years of Story" (1965). The Burnetts also operated Story Press, a book-publishing concern. Story magazine closed down in 1971, and Whitney Burnett died two years later.
        In 1977, Mrs. Burnett married William Zeisel, who died in 1980. Wrotes Novels and Textbooks
        Mrs. Burnett's novels were "A Woman in Possession" (1951), "This Heart, This Hunter" (1953), "The Brain Pickers" (1957) and "The Watch on the Wall" (1965). She also wrote a number of textbooks, including "On Writing a Short Story," which was published in 1983.
        Mrs. Burnett, whose family name was Southgate, had little formal schooling in her native St. Louis. She spent a good deal of time at colleges as the daughter and niece of trustees. She was married in the 1930's to Robert Abbott, a college teacher, but the marriage ended in divorce.
        Later, she returned to campuses to teach literature and creative writing at schools like Sarah Lawrence, Wagner College, Hunter College and the University of Missouri.
        In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, John Burnett, of Bali, Indonesia, and six grandchildren.
      