
        Belinda Mason, a member of the National Commission on AIDS who pleaded with President Bush in a letter in August not to support proposed Federal policies that she said would further stigmatize AIDS sufferers, died this morning at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville. She was 33 years old.
        She died of AIDS-related pneumonia, a spokesman for the commission said.
        Ms. Mason was infected with the virus that causes AIDS when she received a blood transfusion in 1987 while giving birth to her second child. Hospital workers had not tested the blood she received, but later found that it was contaminated with the AIDS virus.
        Before she became infected, Ms. Mason worked as a reporter for two weekly newspapers, The Ohio County Times-News in Hartford, Ky., and later for The Appalachian News-Express in Pikeville, Ky. She also wrote short stories.
        When she learned she was infected with AIDS, she became an advocate for better medical and social treatment of people with the AIDS virus. Ms. Mason founded Kentuckiana People With AIDS Coalition, the first Kentucky-based advocacy organization for those stricken with AIDS. 'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
        "I have become the disease," she said in an interview six weeks ago. "When people talk to me now, they see the disease first. Nobody talks to Belinda Mason the short-story writer anymore. My previous identity has dissolved. I've become an AIDS poster child."
        In her letter to Mr. Bush on Aug. 2 she said she had no ill will toward health-care workers even though she contracted the disease through their lapses. She also said she opposed widespread compulsory testing of such workers. Nor, she wrote, did she want people with AIDS to be barred from entering the United States. Both proposals are being considered in Washington.
        "Mr. President, doctors don't give people AIDS -- they care for people with it," she wrote. "The blanket screening of health-care workers will create the false illusion that people with AIDS are a threat to others."
        Ms. Mason is survived by her husband, Stephen Carden, and their two children, Polly, 8, and Clayton, 4. She will be buried on their Kentucky farm.
      