
        Claire Zeisler, an artist and art collector who helped transform the two-dimensional craft of weaving into the three-dimensional medium called fiber art, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 88 years old.
        She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Joan Binkley of Lake Bluff, Ill.
        Mrs. Zeisler, whose maiden name was Block, was born in Cincinnati on April 18, 1903, and showed a strong interest in art from childhood. In 1921 she married Harold Florsheim, an heir to the Florsheim Shoe Company, and moved to Chicago.
        For a while, her interest in art was manifested in a collection that became well known for its broad range and exquisite taste. In the 1930's, she acquired paintings by European modernists including Picasso, Miro and Klee, as well as objects from many tribal cultures, among them African sculptures, tantric art, ancient Peruvian textiles and more than 300 American Indian baskets. Later, she added works by prominent postwar American artists, from Franz Kline and Robert Rauschenberg to Jenny Holzer.
        In 1943 Mrs. Zeisler divorced her husband, and in 1946 she married Ernest Zeisler, a physician and author. In the 1940's she also went back to school, studying with the sculptor Alexander Archipenko and with Laszlo Moholy-Nagy at the Illinois Institute of Technology, often known as the American Bauhaus. But it was the instruction she received from a Chicago weaver named Bea Swartchild that channeled her abiding interest in textiles toward the craft of weaving. A Move Toward Complexity
        At first she created functional loomed weavings, but by 1962, the year of her first solo exhibition, she had abandoned the loom to create three-dimensional free-form fiber sculptures of increasing scale and complexity. These works actively exploited the inherent qualities of weaving and thread, especially in their emphasis on knotting and wrapping and on free-falling unwoven strands of fiber, a device that the artist considered her trademark.
        After a 1963 exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Crafts in New York City that also included fiber works by Sheila Hicks and Lenore Tawney, Mrs. Zeisler came to be seen as an innovator in her field. From then on, she exhibited widely, in Europe and Japan as well as the United States, and many museums acquired examples of her work. In 1979 the Art Institute of Chicago organized a retrospective of her art; a smaller exhibition was mounted by the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1985.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two sons, Peter Florsheim of Sedona, Ariz., and Thomas Florsheim of Milwaukee; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      