
        Ann C. Whitman, an influential figure in the White House as the personal secretary to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and later as chief of staff to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, died Tuesday at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Clearwater.
        Mrs. Whitman died of heart failure, friends said.
        "There's no question she played a vital role in the Eisenhower Administration; he really depended on her tremendously," said Robert J. Donovan, author of "Confidential Secretary: Ann Whitman's 20 Years with Eisenhower and Rockefeller" (E. P. Dutton, 1988).
        Mrs. Whitman routinely worked 12 hours a day, and often seven days a week. Among her chores was supervising the President's responses to correspondence, which reached hundreds of thousands of letters a year. Recruited in 1952
        Mrs. Whitman, whose maiden name was Cook, was born in Perry, Ohio, and attended Antioch College. As part of its work-study program, she went to the Institute for Child Guidance in New York City, became a secretary there and never returned to college. Her next job, which she held for 16 years, was as a personal secretary to Adele Rosenwald Levy, whose father was a founder of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
        In the early 1950's Mrs. Whitman worked for the Committee for a Free Europe, which ran Radio Free Europe. She was then recruited for the Eisenhower Presidential campaign in 1952, and worked for Eisenhower through both of his Administrations.
        In 1961 she worked for George Hinman, a political adviser to Rockefeller when he was Governor of New York, and became the Governor's executive assistant in 1965. In 1974, when President Gerald R. Ford named Rockefeller as Vice President, she served as his chief of staff. She retired in 1977.
        Mrs. Whitman married Clarence Willard Moore in 1933, but the marriage ended in divorce. In 1940 she married Edmund Whitman, her first husband's business colleague at the United Fruit Company. That marriage also ended in divorce, in 1961.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      