
        Marcia Simon Weisman, a collector admired for her discerning taste in postwar American art and as a benefactor who helped found the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 73 years old.
        She died of a stroke, a spokesman for the hospital said.
        Known for her instrumental role in galvanizing support for, and contributing art to, the Museum of Contemporary Art in the late 1970's and early 80's, Mrs. Weisman also gave prize works from her collection to the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. In 1976 she initiated a program that resulted in the contribution by hundreds of donors of more than 8,000 works of art to Cedars-Sinai. She helped establish similar programs at medical institutions across the country. De Kooning, Warhol and Ruscha
        Born in Portland, Ore., she was a daughter of Meyer Simon, who with Mrs. Weisman's brother, Norton Simon, went on to found Val Vita Food Products, a forerunner of Hunt Wesson Foods. She attended Mills College in Oakland, Calif., where she began collecting art, buying posters and prints. In 1938 she married Frederick R. Weisman, who worked with Norton Simon before he became the head of a large Toyota distributorship. Beginning in 1952 the Weismans amassed one of the finest private collections of modern art in the country at their home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        When they divorced in 1979, the couple divided their holdings, which had come to include sigificant paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings by Willem de Kooning, Barnett Newman, Andy Warhol and others. To the National Gallery, Mrs. Weisman promised paintings by Ed Ruscha and Clyfford Still. To the Los Angeles County Museum of Art she gave works by Newman and Hans Hofmann, among others. Last year she gave Jasper Johns's "Map," perhaps the most important work in her collection, to the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art.
        Besides her brother, she is survived by a sister, Evelyn Simon Prell; two sons, Richard and Daniel; a daughter, Nancy, and two granddaughters.
      