
        Mary S. Painter Garin, an American economist who was an important innovator in the use of statistical techniques during and immediately after World War II, died Monday in Toulon, France, near her home in Sollies-Toucas. She was 71 years old.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said a niece, Sarah Wells.
        Miss Painter, as she was known professionally, was one of a small group of economists who made national-income analysis a powerful tool for government and military policy-making from World War II on. She served in the Marshall Plan and at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris,
        A native of Minneapolis, Miss Painter graduated from Swarthmore College in 1942 with high honors and went directly to the Board of Economic Warfare and then to the Office of Strategic Services. There she pioneered the development of original techniques for analyzing Nazi Germany's military abilities. She devised a statistical model for estimating the size of the German submarine fleet in the North Atlantic, which after the war, was found to have been startlingly accurate. Calculated Past G.N.P.
        After the war, she served at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington and at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Her article "Estimates of Gross National Product, 1919 Through 1928," published in the Federal Reserve bulletin in September 1945, used new Commerce Department concepts to calculate the gross national product for the 10 years after World War I.
        In 1948, Miss Painter went to Paris in the first wave of economists who set up the European headquarters of the Marshall Plan. She was in charge of analyzing the French and German economies at the United States Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other regional organizations until 1960. She returned to the United States for two years, working on problems of arms control and disarmament with Prof. Emile Benoit at Columbia University.
        In 1962, she returned to Paris to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the successor to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation, originally established to administer Marshall Plan aid to Europe.
        Miss Painter was also known as a remarkable cook. In 1969, she married Georges Garin, one of the outstanding chefs of France, who was the proprietor of Chez Garin, a restaurant on the Left Bank.  Work in Restaurants
        When Miss Painter retired as an economist from O.E.C.D., she became, in the best French tradition of restaurateur's wives, la Patronne of Chez Garin, presiding over its cash register.
        The Garins closed the restaurant in 1973 and established a new one, Le Lingousto, at Sollies-Toucas. Mr. Garin died in 1979, and Miss Painter lived there the rest of her life.
        She was a close friend and early supporter of the author James Baldwin, and his book "Another Country" is dedicated to her.
        She is survived by her sister, Charlotte Morse of Minneapolis, five nieces and three nephews.
      