
        Margaret L. A. MacVicar, dean of undergraduate education at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an innovator in shaping policies for undergraduate education and science education in public schools, died Monday at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. She was 47 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and Lebanon, Me.
        She had been ill with cancer for a year, an M.I.T. spokesman said.
        Professor MacVicar believed in educating students about their social responsibilities. "It is not technicians that we seek to prepare, nor bench-tied engineers practicing narrow specialities," she said. "Our purpose is to direct the best minds toward inquiries and enterprises concerned with the human condition." Work for Diversity
        After becoming undergraduate dean in 1985, she worked for diversity in the admission of women, members of minorities and students with varied interests. She also implemented changes in humanities and science requirements.
        Professor MacVicar, a professor of physical science, had held the endowed chair as Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Education since 1980.
        As dean, Professor MacVicar's responsibilities included oversight of M.I.T.'s Reserve Officer Training Corps program. Last year, she criticized a Department of Defense policy barring homosexuals from R.O.T.C. programs, saying that such policies "run counter to the values of inclusion and equality which are the foundation of this institution." The faculty voted to have M.I.T. work with other schools for a reversal of the policy. Recipient of Irwin Sizer Award
        Margaret MacVicar was born in Hamilton, Ontario, and moved with her family to Flint, Mich., as a child. She received her B.S., in 1964, and her doctorate, in 1967, from M.I.T. For two years, she was a postdoctoral fellow at Cambridge University in England.
        In 1973, she was the first recipient of the M.I.T. Class of 1922 Career Development Award to support young faculty members of exceptional promise and unusual devotion to teaching. In 1977, she received the Irwin Sizer Award for the most significant contribution to education at M.I.T., and in 1979, she held the Chancellor's Distinguished Chair at the University of California, Berkeley, in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering. In 1985, she was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Clarkson University.
        Survivors include her parents, George and Elizabeth MacVicar of DeBary, Fla., and two sisters, Anne Amato of Brookline, N.H., and Victoria MacVicar of Pepperell, Mass.
      