
        Muriel Stuart, an English-born ballerina who danced with Anna Pavlova and was a leading teacher at the School of American Ballet, died yesterday morning at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Stuart had been in poor health for years, said her son, Peter Warwick.
        She came to Pavlova's attention when, at age 8, she answered an advertisement for a class for eight girls to be taught by the Russian ballerina in London. At the audition, Pavlova was fascinated by the way the child moved with the music at a sudden change of rhythm. Miss Stuart's musicality and lyricism were the hallmarks of her style as a dancer with Pavlova, whose company she joined at age 13, and as a teacher at the School of American Ballet, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet. A Gifted Trainer
        Miss Stuart danced with Pavlova until 1926, when she left to marry a violinist, Julian Brodetsky. In 1927 she moved with him to Los Angeles, where she opened a dance school. Except for a brief stint as a first ballerina and choreographer with the Chicago Lyric Opera, she spent the rest of her career teaching, and she become known as a gifted trainer of female dancers.
        She was invited to teach at the School of American Ballet in 1935. Since she had recently studied modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg, Martha Graham and Agnes de Mille, she was asked to teach classes in an ill-defined style that was less stringent than ballet but not quite modern dance. "My dear, if I'd sat them on the floor, they'd have died," she once said of her early students.
        Though regal in manner, Miss Stuart was known for her waspish but understated wit. "It's either innate or it ain't," a student recalled her saying about rhythm. She could be transfixed by gifted students' dancing, as she was when Allegra Kent, a favorite, entered the school.
        Born in a London suburb, South Norwood, Miss Stuart also studied with Enrico Cecchetti. She wrote, with Lincoln Kirstein, "The Classic Ballet: Basic Technique and Terminology," a 1952 book that has become a standard text.
        Miss Stuart's first marriage ended in divorce, as did her second marriage, to James Warwick, a playwright. She is survived by her son, who lives in Middletown, N.J.
      