
        Sylvia Fine Kaye, a producer, lyricist and composer, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old.
        She died of emphysema, said her daughter, Dena Kaye of Manhattan.
        Mrs. Kaye, the widow of the actor Danny Kaye, wrote the music and lyrics for many of her husband's films, including "Up in Arms" (1944), "Wonder Man" (1945), "The Kid from Brooklyn" (1946), "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" (1947), "The Inspector General" (1949) and "The Court Jester" (1956).
        A native of Brooklyn, she was a graduate of Brooklyn College, where she studied music. After college, she helped put on skits at a summer camp in Pennsylvania, where her fellow entertainers included Imogene Coca, Max Liebman and Danny Kaye. There she began writing specialty material, including a Yiddish version of Gilbert and Sullivan's "Mikado" for Mr. Kaye. In 1940, the sketches were produced on Broadway under the title "The Straw Hat Revue."
        That year, she married Mr. Kaye, and the couple worked as a popular act at La Martinique, a Manhattan nightclub. Mrs. Kaye wrote the music and lyrics for her husband and accompanied him on piano. Wit and Patter
        Mrs. Kaye was known for her complex, witty lyrics, and she was often described as a composer of patter songs, which turn on the rapid delivery of tricky lines. Most frequently cited are "Anatole of Paris," "The Lobby Number" and "Soliloquy for Three Heads," the last sung by three mirror images in "The Inspector General." But Mrs. Kaye disagreed with this characterization. "I wrote many songs for Danny that had patter sections in them," she once told an interviewer, "but only two pure patter songs." They were "Melody in 4-F" and a variation of "The Nightmare Song" from Gilbert and Sullivan's "Iolanthe." For the film "Knock on Wood" (1954), she wrote "All About You," which Cole Porter called "a perfect love song."
        For most of her career, Mrs. Kaye wrote songs and music solely for her husband. She once estimated that she wrote more than 100 songs for him during their 40-year collaboration. She was also involved in the production of almost all his films. She was twice nominated fpr Academy Awards for her work on "The Five Pennies" (1959) and "The Moon Is Blue" (1953). Musical Comedy on Television
        In the 1970's, she embarked on a separate career as a television producer and teacher. She began teaching musical comedy at the University of Southern California in 1971 and at Yale in 1975. In 1979, she produced and narrated the course as a 90-minute PBS program, "Musical Comedy Tonight," which won a Peabody Award. In 1975 she was executive producer for a television special, "Danny Kaye: Look In at the Met." She also produced and edited "Assignment Children," a Unicef film that starred her husband.
        In the last three years, Mrs. Kaye devoted most of her time to writing a book about her life with Mr. Kaye, "Fine and Danny," for Alfred A. Knopf. She was also writing a catalogue of show-business material that she and her husband had donated to the Library of Congress.
        Brooklyn College awarded her an honorary doctorate in humane letters in 1985. This year she endowed the Sylvia Fine Chair in Musical Theater there. She recently financed the restoration of the 664-seat Playhouse at Hunter College.
        Mr. Kaye died in 1987 at age of 74. Mrs. Kaye is survived by her daughter, a magazine and television journalist, and a sister, Rhoda Gamson of New York City.
        Correction:  October 30, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about the songwriter Sylvia Fine Kaye omitted a survivor. He is Robert Fine Forrest, of Manhattan, her brother.
      