
        Nadine Gordimer, whose novels of South Africa portray the conflicts and contradictions of a racist society, was named winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize in Literature today as her country finally begins to dismantle the system her works have poignantly explored for more than 40 years.
        In a brief citation, the Swedish Academy, which confers the awards, referred to her as "Nadine Gordimer, who through her magnificent epic writing has -- in the words of Alfred Nobel -- been of very great benefit to humanity."
        The academy also added that "her continual involvement on behalf of literature and free speech in a police state where censorship and persecution of books and people exist have made her 'the doyenne of South African letters.' " Effects of Apartheid
        In her stories and in such novels as "A Guest of Honour," "Burger's Daughter" and "My Son's Story," Miss Gordimer has written of the effects of apartheid on the relationships of men and women, parents and children.
        The academy had reportedly passed over the 67-year-old Miss Gordimer several times. "I had been a possible candidate for so long that I had given up hope," she said today in New York City, where she was on a lecture tour to promote her new collection, "Jump and Other Stories."
        She is the first woman to win the literature prize in 25 years, and one of only seven to win it in its 90-year history.
        This year's Nobel awards, the rest of which will be announced here and in Oslo later this month, carry a stipend of about $985,000 each, the largest amount ever. Nobel's will established a sizable fund -- from his earnings as a chemical engineer and inventor of, among other things, dynamite -- for the winners: "those who, during the preceding year, shall have conferred the greatest benefit on mankind."
        Prof. Sture Allen, one of the 18 members of the academy elected for life and also its permanent secretary, said that he had tried to call Miss Gordimer in Johannesburg on Wednesday night to give her the good news, but nobody at her home knew how to reach her.
        The Swedish Academy, in a brief critique of her works issued with its citation, said today: "Gordimer writes with intense immediacy about the extremely complicated personal and social relationships in her environment. At the same time as she feels a political involvement -- and takes action on that basis -- she does not permit this to encroach on her writings."
        In South Africa, President F. W. de Klerk extended his congratulations to Miss Gordimer for what he called "this exceptional achievement which is also an honor to South Africa." He stopped short of endorsing her uncompromising writing.
        "As South African head of state, I am always pleased when one of my countrymen does well and achieves international recognition," Mr. de Klerk said in a deliberately neutral statement. "The Nobel Prize for literature is unequaled in prestige in the world. Winning it is a noteworthy achievement from any point of view."
        The award to Miss Gordimer led the television news broadcast of the state-run South African Broadcasting Corporation, which devoted 80 seconds to her achievement, informing viewers that the same honor had been bestowed upon Winston Churchill, Ernest Hemingway and Pearl S. Buck.
        Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, who was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985, said he was "over the moon" about the award to Miss Gordimer: "She's an outstanding artist, has a way with words but more than anything else she has had this tremendous commitment and caring about people, caring about justice."
        Miss Gordimer was born in 1923 in a small mining town near Johannesburg.  Both her parents were immigrant Jews -- her father from Lithuania, her mother from England. As a young writer, she has said, she was strongly influenced by "The Jungle," Upton Sinclair's 1906 novel of social protest in America, which started her thinking about the plight of the miners in her own country.
        Her first short story was published when she was only 15, and her first collection in 1949. Many stories appeared later in "The Soft Voice of the Serpent," a collection published in 1952; other notable groupings were "Friday's Footprints" in 1960, "Livingstone's Companions" in 1971, and "Something Out There," in 1984.  Ambiguity of a Title
        The decisive part of her work, for the Swedish Academy, was her novels, particularly "July's People," published in 1981. The book describes a white family fleeing civil war with the help of their black servant, July, who takes them to his village. "The ambiguity of the novel's title quickly etches itself -- July's people are the white family he still serves but also the members of his tribe," the academy's literary critique said.
        The announcement of the award to Miss Gordimer -- made at precisely 1 P.M., in keeping with tradition -- was met with cheers. Not since 1966, when Nelly Sachs shared the award with Shmuel Yosef Agnon of Israel, has a woman won the literature prize.
        Professor Allen said the disagreements within the academy that had prevented the prize from going to Miss Gordimer before this would remain a secret for 50 years, like most other details of the prize committee's deliberations. But he volunteered that he had long been an admirer of her work.
        He insisted that the award had nothing to do with the politics of apartheid, or with the fact that it was only this year that South Africa's leaders had finally begun to dismantle the system.
        "The Nobel Peace Prize is a political award," Professor Allen said, "and it will be announced in Oslo. This is a literary award. That is her own argument; she is very keen on that point. Her works have a political basis, but her writing is different." Will Help Black Writers
        Miss Gordimer, who is a member of the African National Congress, which had long been outlawed, said today that she wanted to use some of the prize money to help the predominantly black Congress of South African Writers.  "I'm a founder of the Congress of South African writers," she said at a news conference in New York, "and all my colleagues are black. Most of the black authors write in English, and I hope that they will begin to express themselves in their African languages."
        The South African Government banned "A World of Strangers," published in 1958 and describing the difficulties experienced by a Briton establishing friendships with black South Africans in segregated Johannesburg. More than 20 years later, it banned "Burger's Daughter," a novel described by the academy today as one of her masterpieces, along with "The Conservationist" and "July's People."
        "A Guest of Honor," published in 1970 and another novel cited by the academy today, described the conflict of loyalties experienced by a former colonial administrator returning to a newly independent African country that had expelled him for his ties to black groups.
        "My Son's Story," published in 1990, describes "love in an insupportable society, the complications and obstacles inherent in the path to change," the academy said.
        "The novel is ingenious and revealing, and at the same time enthralling because of its poetic values," the academy said. "Gordimer's specifically feminine experiences, her compassion and her outstanding literary style characterize her short stories as well."
        All of her 10 novels and 9 short-story collections are now permitted to be published in South Africa.
        Despite her fight against apartheid, Miss Gordimer, who has been married since 1954 to a Johannesburg gallery owner, Reinhold Cassirer, has always considered herself a South African. She said that she had only once considered emigrating, to Zambia. "Then I discovered the truth, which was that in Zambia I was regarded by black friends as a European, a stranger," she told Reuters in an interview this year.
        The Nobel awards for peace, literature, medicine, chemistry, physics and economics will be presented in Oslo on Dec. 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel's death. He established the first five categories in his will; economics was added in 1968, with an endowment from the Bank of Sweden.
      