
        Natalia Ginzburg, an author commonly ranked with Umberto Eco as one of Italy's most important writers of fiction, died on Monday at her home in Rome. She was 75 years old.
        She died of cancer, a spokesman for her publisher, Einaudi, said yesterday.
        Although once dismissed as a minor writer because of her preoccupation with family life, Miss Ginzburg had seen her six works of fiction, a play ("I Married You for the Fun of It"), essays, a biography of the 19th-century novelist Alessandro Manzoni and translations of Flaubert and Proust recognized in recent years as the creations of a major artist.
        Miss Ginzburg was born in Palermo, Sicily. Her mother was Catholic; her father, a professor of anatomy, Jewish. Her formative years were spent in Turin. There, she met and married Leone Ginzburg, a teacher of Russian and a leader of the anti-fascist intellectuals who in the late 1930's formed the core group of the Einaudi publishing house.
        From 1940 to 1943, the Ginzburgs were confined to a small village east of Rome because of their Jewish heritage. It was during this time that Natalia Ginzburg published her first book, "The Road to the City," using the pseudonym Alessandra Torninparte in order to circumvent laws restricting the activities of Jews. 'I Got to Know Grief'
        In 1943, her husband was arrested and imprisoned for anti-fascist activities. His death in prison a few months later was never explained by the authorities. "I got to know grief very well -- a real, irremedial and incurable grief that shattered my life," she recalled in an essay written in 1986, "and when I tried to put it together again I realized that my life had become irreconcilable with what had gone before. Only my vocation remained unchanged. At first I hated it, it disgusted me, but I knew very well that I would end up returning to it, and that it would save me."
        After the war, Miss Ginzburg returned to Einaudi as an editor and continued to write. She won several Italian literary prizes and gained international recognition with the publication of "Voices in the Evening," a novel (1961), and an autobiography, "Family Sayings" (1963).
        In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars. In a preface to the book, Miss Ginzburg wrote: "Possibly some people may not be pleased to find themselves described in the book under their own names. To such I have nothing to say."
        Her biography of Manzoni, which Mary McCarthy called an "original and engrossing work," stood the old-style heroic genre on its head. While admiring Manzoni's literary achievements, her study also lays bare Manzoni's shocking indifference to his children.  Taking Sides in an Adoption
        Miss Ginzburg's last book created an uproar. "Serena Cruz, or True Justice" recounts an explosive adoption case that divided Italy in 1989. In the dispute, a Filipino girl was taken from her adoptive Italian parents on grounds that the adoption was illegal. Miss Ginzburg strongly sided with the adoptive parents, arguing that their nurturing the child for 14 months should have entitled them to keep her.
        In a profile of Miss Ginzburg in The New York Times Magazine in 1990, the American writer Mary Gordon recalled having asked her to account for the quality of understatement that characterizes her work.
        "I was the little sister," Miss Ginzburg replied. "When you are the youngest in the family, people are always telling you to hurry up, to get to the point, say what you mean. I think that's why I write the way I do."
        Asked what kind of writer she would have become had her life not been disrupted by the war, she told Ms. Gordon: "Of course I wrote about the war. I was formed by the war because that was what happened to me. I think of a writer as a river: you reflect what passes before you. The trees pass, and the houses; you reflect what is there."
        "I write about families," she continued, "because that is where everything starts, where the germs grow." Likened to Chekhov
        The subtlety and economy of Miss Ginzburg's style has prompted critics to liken her to Chekhov. "When I write something I usually think it is very important and that I am a very fine writer," she wrote in an essay for The New York Times Book Review in 1986. "But there is one corner of my mind in which I know very well what I am, which is a small, a very small writer."
        In 1983, Miss Ginzburg was elected to the Italian Parliament as a representative of a left-wing party unaffiliated with the Communists. She served only one term. "I did it because I like to learn about things," she told Ms. Gordon. "I like to learn about them so that I can write about them."
        In 1950, she married Gabriele Baldini, a professor of English literature at the University of Rome. He died in 1969. She is survived by her four children, Alessandra, Carlo, Leone and Susanna. Funeral services are to be held tomorrow.
      