
        Aline Laveen MacMahon, an actress whose career on the stage, screen, radio and television lasted more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 years old.
        She apparently died from pneumonia, friends said.
        A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress in "Dragon Seed" in 1944, appearing as the Chinese mother to the part played by Katharine Hepburn.
        A Warner Brothers casting director in 1933 named Miss MacMahon one of the 10 smartest actresses, in a class with Miss Hepburn and Helen Hayes. Miss MacMahon's beauty inspired Cecil Beaton to photograph her and Isamu Noguchi to sculpt a marble bust. 'Beauty and Vitality and Truth'
        Raves acclaimed her early role in Eugene O'Neill's "Beyond the Horizon," in 1926. Alexander Woollcott, the critic, said she acted "with extraordinary beauty and vitality and truth." The New Yorker magazine said she "tempted one to rank her immediately as among the Olympians." Noel Coward called the newcomer "astonishing, moving and beautiful."
        Rarely did she get a bad notice, even in productions that were otherwise panned. Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times in 1967: "I have been seeing Aline MacMahon for more years than I'm going to be honest enough or ungentlemanly enough to count. Always she has pleased me, sometimes more, sometimes less, nevertheless always."
        Offstage, she was equally busy. As chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater in 1950, she organized productions for community theaters. She was active in relief charities.
        Miss MacMahon was born in McKeesport, Pa., and moved to Brooklyn with her family. Her father, the late William Marcus MacMahon, was the editor of Munsey's Magazine. At her urging, her mother, Jennie Simon MacMahon, began her own stage career at the age of 53. She died in 1984, three weeks before her 107th birthday.
        From Barrymore to Streep
        Miss MacMahon graduated from Barnard College in 1920 and made her Broadway debut the next year in "The Mirage." Among her more memorable plays were "Pictures in the Hallway," "Once in a Lifetime," "The Eve of Saint Mark," "The Confidential Clerk" and "All the Way Home."
        Her films included "Ah, Wilderness!" with Lionel Barrymore, "Gold Diggers of 1933," "The Search" with Montgomery Clift, "The Eddie Cantor Story," "The Lady Is Willing" with Marlene Dietrich, "The World Changes" with Paul Muni, "Five Star Final" with Edward G. Robinson, "One Way Passage" with William Powell, "Flame and Arrow" with Burt Lancaster, "I Live My Life" with Joan Crawford and "Babbitt."
        Her final role, in 1975 with Meryl Streep, was in "Trelawny of the Wells" -- the same play Ms. MacMahon performed in at Barnard 55 years earlier.
        She was married to the late Clarence S. Stein, the architect who helped design Sunnyside Gardens in Queens and plan Radburn, N.J. There are no survivors.
      