
        Simone Yellen Feldman, an interior designer, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 61 years old.
        She died of leukemia, said Victoria Hagan, her partner in Feldman-Hagan Interiors, a New York design firm.
        Mrs. Feldman was born in New York and obtained a B.F.A. from Syracuse University. She established her own design firm in the late 1950's and became a member of the American Society of Interior Designers in 1975. Ms. Hagan met Mrs. Feldman through a mentor-apprenticeship program sponsored by the A.S.I.D. when she was a student at the Parsons School of Design in 1982. Mrs. Feldman founded Feldman-Hagan Interiors with Ms. Hagan in 1985 to specialize in residential interiors and corporate office work.  Uncluttered, Not Minimal
        In the last few years, Feldman-Hagan Interiors has risen to prominence and garnered a following among stylish clients who favored a look that is uncluttered but not minimal. Spare, often neutral-colored rooms, were furnished with an eclectic mix of antiques and modern pieces, as well as graphic modern photographs.
        Feldman-Hagan Interiors participated in the 1988 showhouse at Keewaydin, a home in Southampton, L.I., that benefited the Rogers Memorial Library there, and in the prestigious 1990 Kips Bay Boys' and Girls' Club Decorator Showhouse. The decorators devised a "salon of social consciousness," an airy living room that was considered the most influential room in the showhouse.  Recycling a Theme
        Combining such objects as an antique toy airplane with a Louis XVI settee and including some handwritten words from Antoine de Saint-Exupery's "The Little Prince," the room wove the concepts of recycling and responsibility to nature into an elegant framework.
        Mrs. Feldman's corporate clients have included U.S. Steel, the Harmonie Club and, most recently, Mitsui Fudosan, a Japanese real-estate company.
        Mrs. Feldman is survived by her husband, Edgar; a brother, Sherman Yellen; a daughter, Mindy Schanback, and a grandson, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      