
        Simone Beck, a passionate cook, author and teacher who collaborated with Julia Child on the influential cookbook "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," died yesterday at her home in Placassier, a small village in southern France. She was 87 years old.
        Miss Beck, who preferred to be called Simca, had been having heart problems for several months and had stopped eating, said Harold Earle, a cousin. "The doctor said that because she wouldn't eat, she died," he said.
        Miss Beck, a champion of regional French cooking, also wrote two cookbooks of her own, "Simca's Cuisine,"' and "New Menus from Simca's Cuisine," both now out of print. Her latest book, "Food and Friends: A Memoir With Recipes," was written with Suzy Patterson and published in August by Viking. 'Changed People's Attitudes'
        "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," a two-volume set published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1961 and 1970, was a seminal work in the development of cooking in the United States. "The book changed people's attitudes totally, toward cooking as a real worthwhile pursuit," said Nach Waxman, owner of Kitchen Arts and Letters, a culinary bookshop in New York. Miss Beck, he said, was "an incredibly good home cook" who was never trendy, but never dull.
        Miss Beck was born on July 7, 1904, in Tocqueville-en-Caux, near Dieppe in Normandy, into a wealthy family that had made its fortune from the production of Benedictine liqueur. As a child, she learned about cooking from the family cook. She studied cooking in Paris at Cordon Bleu, where she met Julia Child at a cocktail party in 1949.
        "We were like sisters," said Mrs. Child, after learning of Miss Beck's death. "We were a pair of cooking nuts. She was a wonderful and generous friend. We called her La Super Francaise, because she was so French: a wonderful teacher, wonderful enthusiasm." In addition to working on books together, the two along with Louisette Bertholle, the third collaborator on the first volume of "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," ran L'Ecole de Trois Gourmandes in Paris.
        In 1937, several years after a first marriage ended, Miss Beck married Jean Fischbacher, a chemical engineer who died in 1986.
        She is survived by her brother, Bernard Beck, of Cagnes-sur-Mer, Provence, and five nephews.
      