
        Jean Wade Rindlaub, one of the first American women to become a major advertising executive, died on Thursday at the Courtland Garden Health Center in Stamford, Conn. She was 87 years old and lived in Stamford. She died of complications from a stroke, her family said.
        Mrs. Rindlaub, in 34 years at the Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn agency in Manhattan, rose to head of a copy group and in 1946 became a vice president, the first woman at that level in the company. In 1954, she became the first woman on the company board. The American Advertising Federation named her woman of the year in 1951 and in 1989 elected her to its hall of fame.
        Recognizing the growing importance of homemakers and working women, Mrs. Rindlaub organized nearly 400 women at the agency into sounding boards for products and marketing. As forerunners of marketing-research focus groups, they offered ideas and reactions for products, brand names, packaging and advertising.
        Mrs. Rindlaub, born in Lancaster, Pa., was from a Pennsylvania Dutch family. As a teen-ager, she taught typing and shorthand at her father's business school and worked for Armstrong Cork as a secretary to the advertising manager. She became editor of company publications.
        She joined B. B. D.&O. in 1930 as a copywriter and supervised campaigns for United Fruit, General Mills and Campbell's Soup. Her slogan for Oneida silverware, "Back home for keeps," resonated as a wartime theme in the 40's. Her work appeared in two compilations, "100 Top Copywriters and Their Favorite Ads" and "100 Greatest Advertisements."
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
        Appointed under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to the New York State Council of Women, she was the principal author of a report, "New York Women and Their Changing World." She participated in White House Conferences on Nutrition held by Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Richard M. Nixon and was a delegate to a White House Conference on Aging.
        For 50 years she lived in Teaneck, N.J., where she was a co-founder of the Senior Services Center and was chairwoman of the Friendship House, the Advisory Board on Senior Citizens and the Advisory Board on Community Relations. She was citizen of the year in 1981. In Stamford she volunteered as a teacher's assistant.
        Her husband, Willard, died in 1983. Surviving are a son, John, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Anne Dow of Cambridge, Mass.; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      