
        Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, the secretary of the Democratic National Committee who called the roll and tallied the votes at 12 national conventions from 1944 to 1988, died on Saturday in a hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 75 years old.
        Mrs. Bush died of lung cancer, her stepdaughter, Jan Bush Jennings, told The Associated Press.
        At each Democratic national convention, from the one that nominated the Roosevelt-Truman ticket to the one that drafted Michael S. Dukakis and Lloyd Bensten, Mrs. Bush called the role of states in a slight, but crisp, Dixie-accented voice that made her a fixture of the convention floor and a legend in the party. 'Born a Democrat'
        "I was born a Democrat," she said before the 1976 convention, "like most people were born into religion."
        Dorothy McElroy was born on Dec. 8, 1916, in Baldwyn, Miss., the third daughter of a postmaster. When she was in the eighth grade, her family moved to Columbus, Miss., so that she and her sisters could attend Mississippi State College for Women, from which she graduated in 1938.
        In 1940, she married Peter Vredenburgh 3d, a wealthy Alabama lumberman and prominent Democrat, and quickly became enmeshed in politics. She was elected national committee woman of the Alabama Young Democrats in 1941 and a vice-president of the Young Democratic Clubs of America in 1943.
        She was just 27 years old when she was named secretary to the Democratic National Committee in 1944. She was the first woman -- and the youngest person -- ever to serve in the position, which is unpaid.
        Mr. Vredenburgh died in 1956, and in 1962 she married John W. Bush, then a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
        In addition to her work at the conventions, she also arranged meetings of the national and executive committees and kept party records.
        She retired in September 1989.
        In addition to Mr. Bush and Mrs. Jennings, she is survived by another stepdaughter, Emily Bush Zuckett.
      