
        Eleanor Stockstrom McMillen Brown, a leading interior designer and founder of McMillen Inc. one of this country's best-known design concerns, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100 years old.
        Considered a pioneer in her field, she built her reputation on her ability to combine great style with a keen sense of business. Mrs. Brown went to both business and secretarial school after having studied design for three years at the Parsons School in New York and Paris. "I thought if I was going to do it at all, I'd better do it professionally," she once said. "That's why it's McMillen Inc. and not Eleanor McMillen. I wasn't one of the 'ladies.' "
        Instead of working from her living room, as so many decorators have done when starting out, she took $13,000 of her own money and opened an office in a town house on East 55th Street.  'Strong-Minded Vision'
        "Mrs. Brown was a great Victorian lady with amazing taste yet she had a clear, strong-minded vision," said Mark Hampton, the New York interior designer who worked for her for five years. "She knew how to keep other talented decorators working under the McMillen name."
        Over the years her clients included H. H. Rogers of Standard Oil, Arthur Houghton of Corning Glass, Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford 2d, Ambassador and Mrs. Kenneth Franzheim and Mrs. Charles W. Englehard Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Dillon, Mr. and Mrs. Winthrop Aldrich and Mr. and Mrs. William S. Paley.
        In 1963 she was selected to decorate portions of Blair House, the Federal Government's Washington guest house for foreign dignitaries. In the Johnson Administration, McMillen Inc. also decorated the President's private quarters in the White House. In 1952, Mrs. Brown was made a Chevalier of the Legion d'Honneur by the French Government.
        Mrs. Brown was born Eleanor Stockstrom in St. Louis. Her father, Louis Stockstrom, founded the American Stove Company. At 24, she married Drury McMillen, an engineer. They traveled extensively for 10 years and were later divorced.
        In 1934 she married the architect Archibald M. Brown.
        Between marriages, while she was at the Parsons School, she became close to two people who taught there: the antiques expert William Odom, who first taught her to appreciate fine French furniture and was known as her silent partner, and the designer Grace Fakes whose flair for architectural detail was to account for much of Mrs. Brown's reputation.  Valued Parsons Training
        So greatly did she value the school's training that she served on its board and for 40 years hired only Parsons graduates.
        She also had a reputation as a genius at furniture arrangements. "Mrs. Brown had that uncanny ability to look at a room and instantly tell exactly how to place the furniture and objects so everything just worked," said Stanley Barrows, the former head of the department of interior design at The Fashion Institute of Technology.
        She also had a talent for creating a look that was at once restrained and elegant. French furniture carefully mixed with modern pieces was one of her signatures. "Her earliest work could best be described as stripped-down Directoire," Mr. Barrows said.
        "Later on she was one of the first decorators to take Italian 18th-century furniture seriously," he said. "It was a reaction to all the gloomy Italian Renaissance pieces that had been so popular."
        One person who remembers her style particularly well is the decorator Sister Parish. When Mrs. Parish married at age 19 and had been decorating for all of a year, Mrs. Parish's mother gave the newlyweds a small house on Gracie Square. "It had been decorated from top to bottom by Mrs. Brown," Mrs. Parish recalls. "I never forgave my mother."
        Nonetheless, Mrs. Parish said, she still has antiques Mrs. Brown bought for her.
        Mrs. Brown went to her office every day until she was 85. "She came in regularly for five years after that," said Betty Sherrill, president of McMillen.
        For about 60 years she lived in a duplex apartment on East 57th Street that barely changed since she first decorated it. She once said, "If you get it right the first time there's no need for change." And indeed, Mrs. Brown lived by her beliefs. Every 20 years or so pieces of furniture were reupholstered and the walls given a fresh coat of paint, but always in the same shade of pale yellow.
        Mrs. Brown is survived by a son, Louis A. McMillen of Concord, Mass., three grandsons and two great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M on Feb. 11 at St. James Episcopal Church, at Madison Avenue and 71st Street.
      