
        LuEsther T. Mertz, a general partner in Publishers Clearing House who was known for her extensive philanthropy on behalf of the arts and other causes, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 85 years old and lived in Port Washington, L.I.
        She had had several strokes in recent weeks, said her lawyer, William B. O'Connor.
        Mrs. Mertz became a general partner in Publishers Clearing House, the magazine-subscription business, soon after its founding in 1953 by her husband, Harold E. Mertz, and their daughter, Joyce Mertz Gilmore. She and her husband were later divorced.
        She was the chairman of Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival from 1973 to 1987 and underwrote moving several of its productions from the Public Theater to Broadway, including "Two Gentlemen of Verona" and "A Chorus Line."
        Recalling her support for the arts and her interest in social justice, Mr. Papp said that despite her wealth, "there was nothing in her that suggested anyone was different from anyone else." He described her as high-spirited but said she "never wanted to be in the spotlight."
        Mrs. Mertz, a longtime supporter of dance, was on the board of the Original Ballets Foundation, which operates the Feld Ballets/NY and the New Ballet School. She also supported the New York City Ballet. The Joyce Theater on Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, which opened in 1982 and is devoted to dance, is named in memory of her daughter, who died of cancer in 1974. Literature on Tape
        In 1961 she founded Choice Magazine Listening in Port Washington for people who are unable to read regular print. The organization selects articles, fiction and poetry from contemporary periodicals, records them on cassette tapes and distributes the tapes free. To endow the organization, she set up a private foundation, the Lucerna Fund.
        The LuEsther T. Mertz Retinal Research Center at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital is named for Mrs. Mertz.
        She was a major contributor to many New York City cultural and educational institutions, including Lincoln Center and the New York Botanical Garden, and received the Mayor's Award for Arts and Culture in 1983 and the New York State Governor's Arts Award in 1986.
        In recent years, she was chairman of the Joyce Mertz Gilmore Foundation, which supports nonprofit activities in human rights, world security and the environment and New York City cultural and civic programs.
        She was a trustee of the Port Washington Public Library and a founding member of the Port Washington League of Women Voters.
        Mrs. Mertz, whose maiden name was Turner, was born in Cincinnati and grew up in Williamsport, Pa. She graduated from Syracuse University in 1927 with a degree in library science.
        Her son, Peter, died in an accident in 1954. There are no immediate survivors.
      