
        Aryness Joy Wickens, an economist and statistician who played the crucial role in developing the Government's cost-of-living index, now the Consumer Price Index, died last Saturday at the Lakeland Health Care Center in Jackson, Miss. She was 90 years old and lived in Jackson.
        She died of a heart attack, her family said.
        Mrs. Wickens retired from the Department of Labor in 1970 after a 42-year career in Fderal service that began when she joined the Federal Reserve Board as a research assistant in 1928 after having taught at Mount Holyoke College for four years.
        In 1933 she served on a committee organized by the American Statistical Association to advise Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins on setting up the Bureau of Labor Statistics program. A few years later she directed the bureau's studies for the Temporary National Economic Committee's investigation of monopolistic practices in industry.
        When the bureau was reorganized in 1940, Mrs. Wickens became chief of the branch studying prices and the cost of living. From 1946 to 1961 she was assistant and then deputy Commissioner of Labor Statistics.
        In 1952 she was president of the American Statistical Association. Eight years later, in recognition of her outstanding Government service, she was one of six recipients of the first Federal Women's Awards of the Civil Service Commission. Adviser at U.N. Conferences
        In 1961, after having been a United States adviser at many United Nations and other international conferences, Mrs. Wickens was named economic adviser to the Secretary of Labor. In that post she laid the statistical base for what became the department's Manpower Administration and its Employment and Training Administration.
        After retirement Mrs. Wickens served on the advisory board of the United States Export-Import Bank. In 1976 she returned to government work as director of statistical studies for the Commission on Federal Paperwork.
        Mrs. Wickens was born in Bellingham, Wash. She was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Washington and held a master's degree from the University of Chicago. She lived near Vienna, Va., before moving to Jackson four years ago.
        Her husband, David L. Wickens, an economist, died in 1970. She is survived by a son, Donaldson, of Jackson, and three grandsons.
      