
        Dame Margot Fonteyn, whose blend of refinement and passion redefined 20th-century ballet style and made her an international idol as the prima ballerina of the Royal Ballet in Britain, died yesterday in Paitilla Hospital in Panama City. She was 71 years old and lived on a farm near La Quinta Pata, Panama.
        Jane Hermann, the director of American Ballet Theater, said that she had been told of Dame Margot's death by telephone by Querube Brillenbourg, the ballerina's stepdaughter. Mrs. Brillenbourg said that Dame Margot had been ill for two and a half years but gave no further details. The Associated Press reported that Louis Martins, a friend of Dame Margot, said she did not want people to know she had cancer.
        The impact of Dame Margot's career was so strong that successive generations of viewers identified her with distinct phases in their own dancegoing experience.
        Most associated her with one of the greatest ballet partnerships in history when she and Rudolf Nureyev dazzled audiences in the 1960's and 1970's. Performing regularly, sometimes annually, in the United States for 15 years, the team was unsurpassed in critical acclaim, box office success and public adulation.
        But Dame Margot was a superstar in her own right long before the term came into use. She sealed the reputation of the young British company that became the Royal Ballet when she conquered New York in 1949 as the radiant Princess Aurora in "The Sleeping Beauty." The English-born ballerina was associated with the growth of British ballet since 1934, and her effortless artistry was equated with a British style.
        Dame Margot was also known as the muse of England's great choreographer, Sir Frederick Ashton, who created many of his major works for the young dancer whom he helped develop. Together they defined the lyrical side of 20th-century classicism in ballet. And yet as Dame Margot often demonstrated in her dancing, the ballerina with the openly well-bred style was also capable of a rush of passion -- an emotional outpouring that she made unforgettable in "Swan Lake," "Romeo and Juliet" and "Marguerite and Armand," which Sir Frederick choreographed as a vehicle for her and Mr. Nureyev in 1963.
        Dame Margot was known for her musicality, beauty of line, inner radiance and refinement. Most of England's leading male dancers were her partners, and as noted by one, Michael Somes, their wish was to act as cavaliers -- to step back and to show her off. Sacheverell Sitwell, the British poet and essayist, said Dame Margot could be compared only "to a bird of beautiful plumage taking pleasure and exulting in its wings."
        The New York Times dance critic John Martin analyzed her artistry in 1953 when he wrote: "She has a muscular awareness of the phrase which automatically translates music into movement, and her scale is beautifully sensitive, so that there is endless color in her movement. But beyond this, there is a feeling for choreographic form that gives shape and substance to the composition of what she is dancing, to a degree that one has never seen equaled in the ballet."  Studied Dance as a Child
        Dame Margot was born Margaret Hookham in Reigate, Surrey, on May 18, 1919. Her father was an English engineer; her mother was half-Irish, half- Brazilian. As a child, she studied at dancing schools in the London area.
        Her family moved around (she lived in Kentucky at one point), and when her father found work in China, she studied with George Goncharov, a Russian-born dancer who had settled in Shanghai. When she began to show talent, she and her mother returned to London, where she attended the school attached to the Vic-Wells Ballet (as the Royal Ballet was then known).
        The teen-ager made her debut with the Vic-Wells as a snowflake in "The Nutcracker" in 1934. Borrowing her mother's maiden name, she initially danced as Margot Fontes, but soon modified her stage name to Fonteyn. Her brother, Felix, a photographer, also adopted Fonteyn as a professional name.
        In 1935, Dame Margot received her first solo role, that of Young Tregennis, a doomed aristocrat, in "The Haunted Ballroom," a ballet by Ninette de Valois, the founder of the Royal Ballet. That same year, Sir Frederick created the role of the bride for her in "Le Baiser de la Fee." At the time, she told her mother: "Frederick Ashton is absolutely mad. His steps are impossible," but the dancer and the choreographer established an astonishing rapport. And Dame Margot later said, "There can be no doubt that my happiest moments on stage have been in Ashton ballets."
        Sir Frederick often cast her as a frail or otherworldly being. In "Apparitions" (1936) she was an artist's unattainable vision, while in "Nocturne" (1936) she portrayed a poor flower seller wistfully watching rich people at a ball. But Sir Frederick also gave her a comic role in "A Wedding Bouquet" (1937), emphasized her charm in "Les Patineurs" (1937) and made her a classical soloist in such abstractions as "Symphonic Variations" (1946) and "Scenes de Ballet" (1948).
        Other Ashton ballets in which she created starring roles included "Daphnis and Chloe" (1951), "Sylvia" (1952) and "La Peri" (1956). She charmed the public in Sir Frederick's "Ondine" (1958), which concerned a water spirit in love with a mortal, and she singled out the work as "my happiest ballet."  Widening Her Range
        The ballerina herself noted that she had difficulty with styles foreign to her temperament. She was defeated by the speed necessary for the main role in George Balanchine's "Ballet Imperial." But she widened her range successfully and dramatically when she performed as a guest artist with Roland Petit's company in Paris in 1948.
        Dame Margot appeared in productions by several contemporary choreographers, among them Sir Kenneth MacMillan's version of "Romeo and Juliet." In 1975, she danced in Martha Graham's "Lucifer" as a guest artist with the Graham company in Manhattan. She also excelled in classics like "Swan Lake," "Giselle" and Michel Fokine's "Firebird," which she imbued with a flashing brilliance.
        Her most memorable classical portrayal was that of Princess Aurora in "The Sleeping Beauty." The Sadler's Wells Ballet (as the Vic-Wells was renamed before it became the Royal Ballet) made its United States debut in 1949 with the 1890 classic by Marius Petipa. The full four-act version was virtually unknown in this country. Dame Margot, then 30 years old, stunned the audience in the Metropolitan Opera House with her performance as the youthful Aurora.
        "When she comes bounding in with all the young joyousness in the world at her first entrance in the birthday party scene," Mr. Martin, the Times critic, wrote, "the lights somehow seem to become brighter and the air fresher, and you know you are in the presence of magic."
        Dame Margot's partners over the years included British ballet's major male dancers, among them Mr. Somes, Robert Helpmann and David Blair. Then in 1962, when she was 42 and was reportedly giving thought to retirement, she starred with Rudolf Nureyev, a 23-year-old defector from the Kirov Ballet of Leningrad, in the Royal Ballet's production of "Giselle," and an electrifying new partnership developed.  'She Represents Eternal Youth'
        Dame Margot declared of Mr. Nureyev: "Something quite special happens when we dance together. It's odd because it's nothing we discussed or worked on, yet there in the photos both heads will be tilted to exactly the same angle, both in perfect geometric relationship to each other." And Mr. Nureyev said of Dame Margot, "For me, she represents eternal youth."
        Sir Frederick created "Marguerite and Armand" (1963), an adaptation of Dumas's "Dame aux Camelias," for the stars, and they danced together with the Royal Ballet and as guests with other companies. Dame Margot continued to be a globe-trotting ballerina until the late 1970's, after which she made occasional guest appearances in mime roles; during the New York season of La Scala Ballet in 1981, she was Lady Capulet in "Romeo and Juliet."
        Dame Margot married Dr. Roberto Arias, a Panamanian diplomat, in 1955. Nine years later, he was nearly paralyzed in an assassination attempt, and even as she maintained a strenuous performance schedule, Dame Margot devoted herself to his care until his death in November 1989.
        She was named Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1950 and Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1956. The Royal Ballet also officially named her its prima ballerina, although that title has rarely been used outside Russia in the 20th century.
        Dame Margot, who occasionally coached younger dancers, helped members of the Houston Ballet in "Swan Lake" in 1989. On May 30, 1990, the Royal Ballet offered a gala performance of "Romeo and Juliet" in her honor at the Royal Opera House at which Sylvie Guillem and Jonathan Cope portrayed the young lovers and two of Dame Margot's former partners were seen in supporting roles. Mr. Nureyev was Mercutio and Mr. Somes came out of retirement to play Lord Capulet.
        Dame Margot was the author of "Margot Fonteyn: An Autobiography" (1975) and "The Magic of Dance" (1979), based on a widely seen television series on dance history for which she was the commentator.
        Summing up her career in her autobiography, she said: "My attitude has never changed. I cannot imagine feeling lackadaisical about a performance. I treat each encounter as a matter of life and death. The one important thing I have learned over the years is the difference between taking one's work seriously and taking one's self seriously. The first is imperative and the second disastrous."
        In addition to Mrs. Brillenbourg, of New York City, and her brother, Felix, of London, she is survived by another stepdaughter, Rosita Arias, and a stepson, Roberto Arias, both of Panama.
      