
        Virginia Mae Brown, who as chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission became the first woman to head an independent administrative agency of the Federal Government, died Sunday at her home in Charleston, W. Va. She was 67 years old.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said her daughter, Pamela Kay Brown.
        Mrs. Brown, a lawyer, served as an I.C.C. commissioner from 1964 to 1979, was vice chairman of the commission in 1968 and was named chairman for a one-year term in 1969.
        Mrs. Brown, an appointee of President Lyndon B. Johnson, also was the first woman to serve on the commission, which was founded in 1887.
        She was also the first woman to be an assistant attorney general for West Virginia, a post she held from 1952 to 1961. After serving from January to May 1961 as counsel to Gov. William W. Barron of West Virginia, she became the state's first female insurance commissioner. And in 1962 she became the first female member of the West Virginia Public Service Commission. An Administrative Law Judge
        After leaving the I.C.C. in 1979, Mrs. Brown returned to West Virginia, where she was an administrative law judge for the Federal Department of Labor in Charleston and later for the Social Security Administration there.
        Mrs. Brown, whose maiden name was the same as her married name, was born in Pliny, W. Va., and graduated from the University of West Virginia in 1945. She then enrolled at the university's law school, one of two female students there at the time, and graduated in 1947.
        After receiving her law degree in 1947, she served as law clerk to Ira J. Partlow, then the West Virginia Attorney General.
        Her marriage to James V. Brown, a Charleston lawyer, ended in divorce.
        Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      