
        Katinka Loeser, many of whose short stories were infused with what a critic described as "autobiographical sketches of warmth and charm," died Wednesday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived in Westport.
        She died of kidney failure, said her daughter, Jan DeVries.
        Miss Loeser published three collections of stories, most of which first appeared in The New Yorker: "Tomorrow Will Be Monday: Stories of Parents and Children" (1964); "The Archers at Home" (1968), about a suburban couple afflicted with empty-nest syndrome, and "A Thousand Pardons" (1982), stories about a Westport couple who enjoy their lives and the changing seasons.
        Miss Loeser was born in Ottumwa, Iowa, on July 2, 1913, and grew up in Chicago. She started writing poetry when she was 14. In 1943 she won the Young Poet's Prize of Poetry magazine, and her poems later appeared in The New Yorker. She was notified of the Young Poet's Prize in a telegram from the editor of Poetry, the humorist Peter DeVries, whom she married later that year.
        In an interview in 1982, Miss Loeser maintained that it is more difficult to write short stories and poetry than novels. With a poem, she said, "You're thinking in abstract terms and trying to get a rhythm." In a novel, she added, "There is more leeway." But to be a successful writer of any kind, she added, "you have to be a decent reader from the time you're small."
        At the University of Chicago, from which she graduated in 1936, Miss Loeser studied under the playwright Thornton Wilder, one of her favorite teachers. When she taught a writing class at the Westport Division of Continuing Education in the 1970's, she adopted the Wilder method of reading his students' stories out loud, anonymously, and having the other students critique them.
        Miss Loeser is survived by her husband and three children: Jan DeVries of Media, Pa.; Peter Jon, of New York City, and Derek, of Santa Monica, Calif. Another daughter, Emily, died of leukemia in childhood and is remembered in Miss Loeser's story "Whose Little Girl Are You?" and in Mr. DeVries's book "The Blood of the Lamb."
      