
        Helen Lee Caldwell, a leading designer of children's clothes in Manhattan for three decades under the name Helen Lee, died on Wednesday at Fort Sanders Hospital in Knoxville, Tenn. She was 82 years old and had lived in Knoxville since 1981.
        She died after a series of strokes, a spokesman for the family said.
        In 1953 she became the first children's designer to win the Coty American Fashion Critics Award, for her designs for Youngland Inc. The award cited her "significant influence in the development of good taste and charm in children's fashions."  Clothes for Girls and Boys
        For the next three decades, Miss Lee designed clothes for infants, girls, boys and teen-agers. She also created designs for Sears, Roebuck & Company; Saks Fifth Avenue; Alyssa, a children's fashion concern, and for her own company, Designs by Helen Lee Inc.
        Despite the reputation of English children's clothes as the best in the world, her designs won accolades from critics at a London fashion show in 1962. One of the models, 3-year-old Cathryn Harrison, the granddaughter of the actor Rex Harrison, wore a white eyelet dress sashed with yellow and cried when asked to take the dress off after the showing.
        A 1965 showing in Tokyo was received with equal enthusiasm by an international audience.  Designs Shown in Moscow
        Miss Lee's designs appeared at the American Fair in Moscow in 1959 and in a dress worn by her granddaughter, Hilary Ball, on the cover of Life magazine in 1959.
        As designer and partner of Alyssa, she received a Neiman-Marcus Award in 1958 and the Ethel Traphagen Award in 1970. She retired in the late 1970's.
        Miss Lee was born in Knoxville and attended the University of Tennessee before coming to New York, where she studied at the Art Sudents League and at the Traphagen School of Art.
        She is survived by a daughter, Jenny Higginbothan Caldwell of Newton, Mass., five grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      