
       Judge Edward Weinfeld, one of the nation's most respected Federal judges, died of cancer at his home in Manhattan yesterday at the age of 86.
        Judge Edward Weinfeld, one of the nation's most respected Federal judges, died of cancer at his home in Manhattan yesterday at the age of 86.
        The judge served in Federal District Court in Manhattan for almost four decades, attaining a reputation that extended far beyond his own court. He conducted his last trial in November but was compelled to give up the case when he became weakened by illness.
        Judge Weinfeld was known for dedication and fairness of such a high order that he became a legend in legal circles. His extraordinary reputation was noted a few years ago by Associate Justice William J. Brennan Jr. of the United States Supreme Court, who said, ''There is general agreement on bench and bar throughout the nation that there is no better judge on any court.'' Oldest Active U.S. Judge
        He was the oldest active Federal district judge in the country, according to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. He remained an active judge with a full caseload, although he could have reduced his work or retired with full pay long ago.
        On Nov. 16, while conducting a major tax-fraud trial, Judge Weinfeld, weakened by his illness, tripped and fell on a sidewalk as he was leaving the United States Court House at Foley Square. Three days later, his voice weak, his face bruised, he returned to court against his doctor's orders and presided over the trial's final testimony. But his illness finally forced him to relinquish the case to another judge.
        For many years, the judge regularly arrived at the courthouse before 6 A.M. to begin his working day of 12 hours or more. He began arriving even earlier in recent years, confiding to friends that he needed less sleep as he grew older. He usually worked six days a week, sometimes seven, including most holidays. 'Every Case Is Important'
        He devoted extensive time to doing the legal research for his rulings and to writing the decisions with extreme care. Lawyers felt compelled to raise their own performance when appearing in his courtroom because of his high standards.
        Speaking at his alma mater, the New York University Law School, Judge Weinfeld told students that he was guided by the precept that ''every case is important'' and ''no case is more important than any other.'' He said that ''a case involving a small sum'' was as important to a poor person as a case involving millions of dollars was to powerful interests.
        Judge Weinfeld was a small, lively man who shunned publicity and wanted his record to speak for itself.
        He was born May 14, 1901, on Manhattan's Lower East Side, where he continued to live for almost 70 years. In his later years, he and his wife lived on the Upper East Side. Attended School at Night
        As a young man, he went to law school at night and worked at various jobs during the day, establishing a habit of hard work that continued throughout his life. He opened his own law office in the city, where he handled a wide range of cases.
        He also became active in the city's Democratic Party and maintained close ties with Gov. Herbert H. Lehman, who named him as the state's first Housing Commissioner in 1939.
        President Harry S. Truman appointed him to the Federal bench in 1950 on the recommendation of Mr. Lehman, who had become a Senator. The judge established a reputation for decisions that were rarely reversed and often cited for their authoritative quality.
        His prominent cases included his ruling that Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's subcommittee lacked authority to investigate the author Corliss Lamont; a proposed merger of the Bethlehem and Youngstown steel companies that was blocked; the Quentin Reynolds-Westbrook Pegler libel trial, and the bribery trial of a former New York City Water Commissioner, James L. Marcus. Consistently High Standards
        The judge's renown stemmed not from big cases, however, but from the consistently high standards that he applied to all cases.
        Many lawyers expressed regret that Judge Weinfeld was not named to the United States Supreme Court. The judge, however, voiced pride in serving on the district court, calling it ''the greatest court in the country, bar none.''
        Judge Weinfeld wrote a few years ago of his attitude toward his work at the court. ''When, at a fairly early hour of the morning, I put the key into the door of my darkened chambers and walk across the room to start the day's activities,'' he said, ''I do so with the same enthusiasm that was mine the very first day of my judicial career. What one enjoys is not work. It is joy.'' The judge, who seemed stern in court but friendly off the bench, invariably wore a bow tie but never put on an overcoat, even on the coldest day. He enjoyed walking five miles to work each morning before dawn but gave that up after being mugged.
        Judge Weinfeld received numerous awards in recognition of his judicial service. Mayor Koch recently selected him for the city's highest award, the La Guardia Medal, which he was to receive in March.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Lillian Stoll; two daughters, Dr. Fern Cohen and Ann Schulman, both of Manhattan; a sister, Bertha Shapiro; a brother, Morris Weinfeld, and five grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held tomorrow at 12 o'clock noon in Temple Emanu-El, at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street.
      