
       Eli Mintz, an actor who played the ever-philosophizing Uncle David in the stage, movie and television versions of ''The Goldbergs,'' died of pneumonia yesterday at Point Pleasant Hospital in New Jersey. He was 83 years old and lived in Brick, N.J.
        Eli Mintz, an actor who played the ever-philosophizing Uncle David in the stage, movie and television versions of ''The Goldbergs,'' died of pneumonia yesterday at Point Pleasant Hospital in New Jersey. He was 83 years old and lived in Brick, N.J.
        Born Edward Satz, the son of a tailor in Lvov, Poland, Mr. Mintz made his debut as a child actor in the Yiddish classic, ''The Dybbuk.'' After arriving in the United States in 1927, Mr. Mintz worked as a waiter, a presser and a clothing salesman before finally landing roles in Yiddish theater in New York.
        His brother, Ludwig Satz, had already become well known in Yiddish theater in this country, according to Mr. Mintz's daughter, Leona Schwartz of Trumbull, Conn. And so, she said, he changed his name ''in order to make it on his own.'' Moved to Television
        It was in 1947 that Mr. Mintz first portrayed Uncle David. His friend, Menasha Skulnick, who had played the original Uncle David in the radio program, ''The Goldbergs,'' was unavailable for the role when a stage version, ''Me and Molly,'' was mounted for Broadway. Mr. Skulnick recommended Mr. Mintz for the part and, from then on, it belonged to Mr. Mintz.
        After the show closed in 1948, ''The Goldbergs'' moved to television and Mr. Mintz brought his interpretation of the short, balding, always-willing-to-be-consulted Uncle David to the new medium. In 1951, Gertrude Berg, famed as the matriarch of the family from the Bronx, wrote a screenplay called ''Molly,'' and Mr. Mintz was cast as Uncle David. A catch-phrase for the part became ''and Uncle David also.''
        Mr. Mintz played numerous featured roles in Broadway shows, on television and in films. Among his stage credits were ''The 49th Cousin,'' ''I Was Dancing,'' ''Catch Me If You Can,'' ''The Fabulous Irishman,'' ''A Worm in Horseradish'' and ''Jimmy Shine,'' with Dustin Hoffman. His film appearances included roles in ''Murder Inc.'' and ''The Proud Rebel.''
        Besides his daughter, Leona, Mr. Mintz is survived by his wife, Hasha; another daugther, Iva Loftman of Staten Island, and four grandchildren.
        Services are scheduled for noon today at the Gutterman-Musicant Funeral Home in Hackensack, N.J.
      