
       James R. Killian Jr., the first Presidential assistant for science and technology, an architect of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and a president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        James R. Killian Jr., the first Presidential assistant for science and technology, an architect of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and a president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        A science administrator, not a scientist, Dr. Killian had been M.I.T.'s president for 10 years by 1957, when the Soviet Union launched Sputnik I, its first satellite, beating the United States into space. In worried response, President Eisenhower picked him as the first full-time Presidential science adviser, to serve as chief architect of the country's scientific programs.
        As chairman of the President's Science Advisory Committee as well as Presidential assistant from 1957 to 1959, Dr. Killian, as the columnist Arthur Krock wrote in The New York Times, ''repaired a dangerous national deficiency by bringing science and technology into the inner circles of the government.'' 'A Brisk, Incisive Man'
        Later, as chairman of the Carnegie Commission on Educational Television from 1965 to 1967 and chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in 1973 and 1974, Dr. Killian came to be considered the father of public broadcasting.
        Dr. Killian's main responsibilities in the Eisenhower Administration were, as General Eisenhower put it at the time, ''helping me follow through on the program of scientific improvement of our defenses'' as well as expediting the United States' space program.
        Once installed in Washington, Dr. Killian, a genial South Carolinian, soon showed himself to be, as Theodore H. White put it, ''a brisk, incisive man with the manner and dispatch of a brilliant surgeon.''
        Moving briskly but coolly, Dr. Killian began laying the groundwork for the creation of NASA, which became what he defined as ''a civilian-directed and civilian-oriented space science and exploration program,'' providing ''research support for military aeronautics and space programs.'' It began operating in late 1958 and put the first American into space in 1961 and the first men on the Moon in 1969. In the Hurricane's Eye
        In the months between the launching of Sputnik I and the creation of NASA, competition among the American armed forces and other government agencies for roles in the stepped-up space race became strident, as Dr. Killian noted tartly in his 1977 volume of memoirs, ''Sputnik, Scientists and Eisenhower,'' and ''under these conditions, the President's Science Advisory Committee found itself in the eye of a political hurricane.''
        Dr. Killian had formed that influential body by taking over the Office of Defense Mobilization's Science Advisory Committee, putting it directly under the President, and beefing it up.
        It was largely through the committee that Dr. Killian, smiling but tough-minded, moved in helping to shape what became NASA. Admirers said he was aided in that endeavor, and throughout his varied career, by a gift for persuading people with differing views to reach a consensus. Space Program Outlined
        Dr. Killian and others on the committee - which had two dozen members, largely distinguished scientists - decided, as he put it in his book, ''that we should propose the outlines of our space program before we proposed an agency to manage it.''
        He then named a four-member subcommmittee, headed by Edward Purcell, the Harvard physicist and Nobel laureate, to delineate a space program. The subcommittee's other members were Gen. James H. Doolittle, then chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics; Edwin Land, the inventor who founded the Polaroid Corporation, and Herbert F. York, a physicist at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Stressing, in Dr. Killian's phrase, ''the importance of civilian exploration of space for scientific purposes,'' the subcommittee, as he wrote in his memoirs, gave General Eisenhower, ''without waffling or alternatives, a recommendation for one organization that in the wrap-up was the organization, with some appropriate modifications, that won approval from him and the Congress and that has managed our space program brilliantly'' - NASA. A Civilian Agency
        On the ticklish question of how to set up the space organization, Dr. Killian wrote, a consensus emerged within his committee, at the Bureau of the Budget, and elsewhere in General Eisenhower's entourage, that the agency should be built around the National Advisory Council for Aeronautics, a civilian body established in 1915.
        Dr. Killian talked the idea over with General Eisenhower and wrote that the President, ''as he explored possibilities with me, clearly leaned toward a civilian rather than a military agency.'' Dr. Killian then formally presented the recommendation to General Eisenhower, who approved it and had the necessary draft legislation prepared. In due course, after much debate on Capitol Hill, NASA was established by the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958.
        In July 1959, Dr. Killian resigned as science adviser, convinced, as he wrote later, ''that I had pretty well done the job that I, as a science administrator, had agreed to undertake.'' He also felt that the job should now go to a ''full-fledged scientist.''
        Dr. Killian returned to M.I.T., where, in early 1959, he had been named chairman of the university's corporation, being succeeded as president by Julius Stratton, who had become acting president in his absence.
        Although Dr. Killian was no longer General Eisenhower's science adviser he stayed on until 1961 as a member of the President's Science Advisory Committee. The committee got recommendations from many scientists leading, eventually, to the setting up of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and to other innovations. Science Funding Increased
        Dr. Killian worked hard in his Washington tenure, Sherman Adams, the former Eisenhower aide, wrote in his 1961 book, ''Firsthand Report,'' and ''early in 1958 he was able to report to the Cabinet that a great increase in scientific cooperation had been arranged with our allies in the NATO alliance and that basic research was being stepped up through transfers of Defense Department funds to the National Science Foundation.''
        The many other science-related actions taken while Dr. Killian was in the Eisenhower Administration included expanding the program of the National Science Foundation and increasing its funding to $136 million in the fiscal year 1959, up from $50 million in 1958.
        Before becoming science adviser, Dr. Killian was named by President Eisenhower, in 1954, to head a Technological Capabilities Panel, which made recommendations to the President and the National Security Council about ways to advance the missile program and about other aspects of military technology. Editor of Journal
        So respected was Dr. Killian as an administrator and analyst that he was repeatedly tapped for important tasks in science and education despite the fact that he never earned an advanced degree beyond his M.I.T. Bachelor of Science degree, awarded in 1926, in business and engineering administration. He was, however, awarded many honorary doctorates.
        Before beginning his administrative career at M.I.T. as an aide to its then president, Dr. Karl T. Compton, in 1939, Dr. Killian was the editor of Technology Review, a journal published at M.I.T.
        After stepping down as M.I.T.'s president and becoming corporation chairman, he became heavily involved in fund raising for the university. Nonetheless, he continued his government service in the Kennedy Administration as chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. Public Television Advocate
        When Dr. Killian went on to become chairman of the Carnegie Commission on Educational TV from 1965 to 1967, he formulated a report that established the framework for a nationwide, Government-supported network of stations. All told, he was on the board of directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting from 1968 to 1975, serving as chairman in 1973 and 1974.
        James R. Killian Jr. was born July 24, 1904, in Blacksburg, a textile and chemical manufacturing town in northern South Carolina, the son of James R. Killian Sr., a textile manufacturer, and Jeannette Rhyne Killian.
        He attended the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn., and studied at Trinity College, now Duke University, from 1921 to 1923 before transferring to M.I.T., where he earned his B.S. He then became assistant managing editor of Technology Review, rising to managing editor in 1927 and editor in 1930. Academic Administrator
        In World War II, much armaments research and development was carried out at M.I.T., and Dr. Compton gave much of his attention to applying science to the war effort. As a result, Dr. Killian came to do much of the administering of M.I.T.'s academic programs, becoming executive vice president in 1943.
        Late in 1945, after the war's end, with Dr. Compton doing more of the administering of the university's academic affairs, Dr. Killian became vice president and a member of the corporation. He advanced to to president-designate in 1948 before his inauguration as president in 1949.
        As president, he was instrumental in the establishment of a School of Humanities and Social Studies. Other new units of the university set up during his tenure were the School of Industrial Management, the Center for International Studies, and the Lincoln Laboratory.
        He also oversaw much new building as well as the expansion of the university's research, its graduate programs, and its instruction in the social sciences and the humanities. Dr. Killian retired as chairman of the M.I.T. corporation in 1971, becoming honorary chairman. Service on Many Boards
        It was early in his university career that Dr. Killian began advising the Federal Government about science. From 1951 to 1959, he was chairman of the Army Scientific Panel. In 1951 he also joined the Office of Defense Mobilization's Science Advisory Committee, becoming that group's chairman in 1957, when it was renamed the President's Scientific Advisory Committee.
        Over the years, Dr. Killian won many awards, was given 39 honorary degrees, and served on the boards of many organizations, including the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Academy.
        He was also at various times a director or trustee of, among others, the General Advisory Committee of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Mount Holyoke College, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Polaroid Corporation, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, and the General Motors Corporation.
        In addition, he was Moderator of the American Unitarian Association in 1960 and 1961.
        Dr. Killian was the author of many papers and articles and the co-author, with Harold E. Edgerton, of ''Moments of Vision, the Stroboscopic Revolution in Photography'' (1979), which was published in earlier forms in 1939 and 1954.
        Dr. Killian's wife, the former Elizabeth Parks, died in 1986. He is survived by a daughter, Carolyn Staley of Berwyn, Pa,, and a son, R. Meredith Killian of Chelmsford, Mass., and a sister, Ruth Killian Nichols of Wellesley, Mass.
      