
       Dr. Sol Nichtern, a prominent child psychiatrist, and his wife, Edith, a social worker and former official of the Child Development Center, were found dead at their home at 25 Sutton Place South in Manhattan last Monday. Dr. Nichtern was 68 years old and Mrs. Nichtern was 74.
        Dr. Sol Nichtern, a prominent child psychiatrist, and his wife, Edith, a social worker and former official of the Child Development Center, were found dead at their home at 25 Sutton Place South in Manhattan last Monday. Dr. Nichtern was 68 years old and Mrs. Nichtern was 74.
        According to family members and a police report, Dr. Nichtern, who had been suffering from Parkinson's disease for several years, and his wife were last seen on Sunday. Their bodies were found by a maid in their bedroom at 4:15 P.M. Monday and a note was recovered. The deaths were listed as an apparent double suicide from an overdose of sleeping pills.
        The Medical Examiner's office said yesterday that the cause of death could not be determined pending completion of toxicological tests this weekend.
        Dr. Nichtern was director of psychiatric services for the Jewish Child Care Association of New York from 1970 until 1985, when he retired because of ill health. In addition to maintaining a private practice for more than 30 years, Dr. Nichtern directed psychiatric services for children and adolescents at several institutions, including Hillside and Elmhurst Hospitals in Queens. An Innovative Program
        He was also a former president of the New York Council on Child Psychiatry and had taught at New York University Medical Center and the New York Medical College.
        While at Hillside, Dr. Nichtern began a program, now widely copied, of bringing parents into school classrooms to help troubled children on a one-to-one basis.
        Dr, Nichtern was a native New Yorker, received his medical degree from the University of Chicago and served as a captain in the United States Army Medical Corps in World War II.
        Mrs. Nichtern was born in Montgomery, Ala., and attended the Dalton School here and Bradford College in Haverhill, Mass.
        After heading the Child Development Center, a branch of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, she directed social work programs at Metropolitan and Beth Israel Hospitals. At Beth Israel she was a founder of the Grandmothers Program to assist patients, and she worked extensively with babies suffering from AIDS. The Nichterns were married in 1968. Dr. Nichtern is survived by two children from his previous marriage to Claire Nichtern, the theatrical producer: a daughter, Judith Gelfer, and a son, David, of Manhattan. He is also survived by a brother, Leo, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
        Mrs. Nichtern, who was the former Edith Jacobi Marks, is survived by two sons, Arthur D. Marks 3d and Andrew H. Marks, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Edith Seligson of Locust Valley, L.I., and Alice Preston of Berwyn, Pa.; a brother, Harold Jacobi of Miami Beach, and six grandchildren.
      