
       Josep Tarradellas, who helped keep the idea of Catalan autonomy alive during 38 years of self-imposed exile from Spain after the civil war, died of a chronic lung ailment on Friday in Barcelona, Spain. He was 89 years old.
        Josep Tarradellas, who helped keep the idea of Catalan autonomy alive during 38 years of self-imposed exile from Spain after the civil war, died of a chronic lung ailment on Friday in Barcelona, Spain. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Tarradellas was Prime Minister of Catalonia during Spain's Second Republic, which was overthrown by the forces of Generalissimo Francisco Franco in the 1936-39 civil war.
        Catalonia, the heavily industrialized region on the Mediterranean in northeastern Spain, was the Second Republic's last major stronghold. But after the Franco victory, the region, like the Basque country, lost its autonomous status; Its institution of self-government, the Generalitat, whose origins go back to the 14th century, was abolished, and the Catalan language was suppressed. Fled to France
        Mr. Tarradellas fled to France, vowing not to return until Catalan autonomy was restored. From his exile in the French town of St.-Martin-le-Beau, Mr. Tarradellas worked tirelessly for the rights of Catalonia. In 1954, in Mexico, he was elected president of the Generalitat by exiled legislators.
        After the death of Franco in November 1975, Mr. Tarradellas, with local backing, pushed to be recognized by the new Government of Adolfo Suarez as a negotiator for Catalan rights.
        But only after Mr. Suarez agreed to restore the Generalitat, having won a mandate in 1977 in Spain's first free elections since the civil war, did Mr. Tarradellas, then 78, decide to return in October of that year. Tens of Thousands Greet Him
        Tens of thousands of Catalans greeted him, waving the red and yellow flag of the region. They joined him in singing Catalonia's ancient song, ''Els Segadors,'' whose opening line begins: ''Catalonia triumphant, will again be rich and full.''
        During the 1977 elections, Catalonians favored the left far more than did other parts of Spain, and it was believed that Mr. Suarez hoped Mr. Tarradellas would help rebuild the center-right in the region.
        Catalonia recovered its autonomy in Spain's 1978 Constitution, and King Juan Carlos confirmed Mr. Tarradellas as president of the Generalitat. He retired from politics in 1980.
      