
       Frank Drozak, a maritime union leader, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 60 years old.
        Frank Drozak, a maritime union leader, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Drozak, who was born in Coy, Ala., had been president of the Seafarers International Union of North America since 1980. The union, with 100,000 members, represents men and women working on vessels sailing inland waters and the Great Lakes and on oceangoing ships flying the United States flag. It also represents fishermen, cannery workers and allied marine workers.
        Mr. Drozak, who was active until several months ago, was also president of two affilates of the Seafarers Union, the S.I.U. Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes and Inland Waterways District and of the United Industrial Workers, Service, Transportation, Professional and Government of North America. Member of A.F.L.-C.I.O. Panel
        He was a member of the executive council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and president of its maritme trades department, which consists of 43 national and international unions with a combined membership of 8.5 million workers.
        Mr. Drozak served on a variety of boards and committees, including labor adviser to the Congressional Maritime Caucus, the National Maritime Council, the Joint Maritime Commission, the A. Philip Randolph Institute and Boston University's Center for Democracy.
        Mr. Drozak began his career at the age of 16 when he took a shipyard job in Mobile, Ala. He joined the seafarers union shortly afterward. In World War II, he served in the Merchant Marine and attained the rank of boatswain. Took Up Labor Role After War
        After the war, he began union organizing work in the port of Mobile and his success led to his appointment in 1964 as union agent in Philadelphia. He later represented the union on the West Coast and was elected a vice president of the union in 1965.
        In 1972, Mr. Drozak was transferred to the union headquarters in Brooklyn and became vice president in charge of contracts. He was also named executive vice president. In 1980, he succeeded Paul Hall as president.
        Mr. Drozak is survived by his wife, Marianne Rogers Drozak, of Alexandria; a daughter, Sarah Frankie Bell, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; a sister, Mary Alice Walraven, of Lilburn, Ga.; a brother, David, of Stone Mountain, Ga. and three grandchildren.
      