
       Melvin Starr, the president of a company that has set Times Square ablaze with spectacular signs for almost a century, died Tuesday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 69 years old.
        Melvin Starr, the president of a company that has set Times Square ablaze with spectacular signs for almost a century, died Tuesday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Starr ran the company, Artkraft Strauss Sign, for 30 years. Its handiwork includes the huge illuminated ball that delights millions of people each year as it slowly descends to mark the beginning of the New Year.
        The company also made the famous smoking-cigarette sign for Camel cigarettes, the block-long Bond's waterfall, Anheuser-Busch's flying eagle and hundreds of glittering billboards, theater marquees and illuminated signs that symbolize New York City to visitors from around the world.
        Once, when asked about New Yorkers seemingly blase attitude toward his signs, Mr. Starr said: ''New Yorkers see the signs. It's just that they'd drop dead before they'd allow anybody to catch them gaping at them.''
        Mr. Starr's company also created the scoreboards at Yankee and Shea Stadiums, Veterans' Stadium in Philadelphia, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis, Forest Hills Tennis Stadium and the Anaheim (Calif.) Convention Center.
        Mr. Starr was known to many of his friends as Mr. Broadway because of his flamboyant, Runyonesque-style of dress and his creative designs for his signs.
        ''He was so involved with the character of Times Square,'' said his daughter, Tama Starr, executive vice president of Artkraft Strauss in Manhattan. ''He was very, very creative and thought very big.''
        Artkraft Strauss began as the Strauss Sign Company, founded by Mr. Starr's father, Jacob, at the turn of the century. Its first signs were illuminated with gas. In 1932, Strauss merged with Artkraft of Lima, Ohio, which then controlled the process for illuminating signs with neon gas.
        Mr. Starr was a director of the Trans-Lux Corporation, a manufacturer of information display terminals. He was also involved in many Jewish charities.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Jean; a son, Jonathan of Hana in Maui, and a sister, Lita of Manhattan.
      