
       Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Deli, who was renowned for his celebrated corned beef as well as his cornball kosher humor, died of complications from a brain tumor yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Deli, who was renowned for his celebrated corned beef as well as his cornball kosher humor, died of complications from a brain tumor yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Under Mr. Steiner and his principal partner, Milton Parker, who purchased the Carnegie Deli 12 years ago from its previous owners, the business prospered and became nationally famous, both for the quality of its food and for its star-studded clientele, which included Henny Youngman, Jackie Mason, Woody Allen and the French singer and actor Yves Montand. In recent years the Carnegie opened branches in Atlantic City, Secaucus, N.J., and Tysons Corner, Va.
        As the fame of the Carnegie grew -Mr. Allen shot part of his movie ''Broadway Danny Rose'' there - Mr. Steiner became something of an unofficial ambassador of Jewish cuisine. He appeared in a television commercial for rye bread, prepared corned beef and pastrami for international heads of state during the 1983 economic summit meeting in Williamsburg, Va., and participated in the United States bicentennial celebration by making a 60-pound ''Statue of Liverty'' from chopped liver - complete with a turkey wing torch.
        ''Leo Steiner was the hardest worker I ever saw in my 22 years in the business,'' Harold Jaffe, the Carnegie's general manager, said yesterday amid the clamor of countermen and jingling of the cash registers. ''He took so much pride in Jewish cooking. All the recipes here are his.'' Corned Beef and Pastrami
        Leo Steiner was born in Newark and grew up in Elizabeth, N.J., where he worked in his parents' grocery. He later owned Pastrami & Things, at 23d Street and Third Avenue. In 1976 he purchased the Carnegie Deli along with two partners, Mr. Parker and Fred Klein, from its three previous owners, Max Hudas, Bernie Gross and Thomas North.
        Mr. Steiner's corned beef and pastrami, cured in the deli's cellar according to his own recipe, has been acclaimed by delicatessen food aficionados across the country. The Carnegie goes through more than 1,000 pounds of brisket a week to make corned beef. It is cured in a mixture of spices for almost two weeks.
        ''To tell you the truth,'' Mr. Steiner confided one day while showing his method to a reporter, ''you could eat it after seven days, but if you wait until the 13th you're in heaven.''
        Mr. Steiner was buried yesterday at Gomel Chesed, in Elizabeth.
        He is survived by his wife, Irma, and his brother, Sam Steiner, who is a manager at the Carnegie Deli.
      