
       Harold Matson, a literary agent who represented Evelyn Waugh, C. S. Forester, Arthur Koestler, Malcolm Lowry and William Saroyan, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        Harold Matson, a literary agent who represented Evelyn Waugh, C. S. Forester, Arthur Koestler, Malcolm Lowry and William Saroyan, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        An energetic octogenarian, Mr. Matson still oversaw many of the details of his agency, the Harold Matson Company. And less than two years ago he auctioned Richard Condon's novel, ''Prizzi's Family,'' for a high six-figure advance.
        ''He has a side that's gentle as a pussycat,'' Mr. Condon once said of Mr. Matson, who represened him for more than 30 years, ''but he's fierce as a tiger in negotiations.'' Former Newspaperman
        After working as a newspaperman in California, Hawaii and Arizona, Mr. Matson joined the McClure Newspaper Syndicate as a roving correspondent and soon became managing editor. In 1932 he joined a literary agency whose clients included Sinclair Lewis, and six years later he opened his own agency, soon distinguishing himself as one of the most influential figures in book publishing.
        In the late 1940's he negotiated a deal with Doubleday for $20,000 for an unwritten first novel, one of the highest advances ever paid for such a proposal. His agency was one of the first to negotiate movie contracts directly with Hollywood studios, rather than through West Coast agents. And he sold the paperback rights to Robert Ruark's novel ''Something of Value,'' for $106,000, reportedly the highest price ever paid at that time.
        Mr. Matson recalled that when Evelyn Waugh visited the United States during World War II, he obtained for the author a $5,000 cash advance on an unwritten short story. Waugh at the Waldorf
        ''I went over to the Waldorf to see Waugh about 11 in the morning,'' he said. ''While he ordered a glass of champagne I told him I brought the money he wanted. He said, 'That's good,' and put the envelope in his pocket. I asked, 'Aren't you going to count it?' He looked at me, twisted his head a little, gave me a squint, and said, 'Should I?' ''
        In 1967, Mr. Matson bought the McIntosh, McKee & Dodd Agency, whose clients included William Styron, Flannery O'Connor and John Irving. He was also a founding partner in the Intercontinental Literary Agency in London.
        Over the years a number of his most important clients died and others followed Don Congdon, his associate of 36 years, when Mr. Congdon opened his own agency in 1983. Still other clients had earlier followed Peter Matson, his nephew, who left the agency in 1979. But the Matson company still represents about 100 clients, and also represents the early works of many of the late authors according to the founder's son, Jonathan Matson, who is president of the agency. Injured in a Fall
        Mr. Matson did not slow down perceptibly until several years ago when he fell and broke three vertebrae. After he was discharged from the hospital he continued to conduct business by telephone from his East Side apartment.
        ''Some people think I'm an idiot for working as long as I have,'' he said while he was recovering. ''But I never found anything better to do.''
        Mr. Matson was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Feb. 26, 1898 and was raised in San Francisco.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann T. Matson, of Manchester, Mass.; two daughters, Katinka Matson of Manhattan and Hallie Matson of San Francisco, and by three sons - Jonathan and Christopher of Essex, Mass., and Timothy of Thetford, Vt.
        A memorial service will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, on Tuesday at 1 P.M.
        Correction:  January 8, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
      