
       Floyd J. McCree, who two decades ago in Flint, Mich., became one of the first black mayors of an American city, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at the Hurley Medical Center in Flint. He was 65 years old.
        Floyd J. McCree, who two decades ago in Flint, Mich., became one of the first black mayors of an American city, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at the Hurley Medical Center in Flint. He was 65 years old.
        At his death, Mr. McCree was the Register of Deeds for Genesee County, of which Flint is the seat. He had held that post for the last 17 years.
        Mr. McCree's rise in local politics began soon after World War II, in which he served as an Army staff sergeant in the South Pacific. After his discharge, he was hired by the Buick foundry in Flint and became a foreman and later supervisor of maintenance. At the same time, he was working his way up the ladder of the local Democratic organization. In 1958, he was elected to the City Commission, Flint's legislative body, where he held office for the next 12 years, a period that included his tenure as Mayor, from 1966 to 1968. Open-Housing Advocate
        As Mayor, Mr. McCree led drives for open housing and for equal opportunity in employment. During racial disturbances in 1967 in Detroit, he was active in trying to end the violence there.
        Later that year he threatened to resign as Mayor when the City Commission declined to adopt an open housing law. Prominent blacks in Flint rallied to him, with many threatening to resign from public boards. An open housing measure was later adopted in a hotly contested referendum.
        Mr. McCree was born in Webster Grove, Mo., and attended high school in St. Louis and Lincoln University in Jefferson City.
        He was a former secretary and chairman of the Genesee County Democratic Party, a member of the National Urban League's board of trustees and president of the local Urban League chapter.
        He is survived by his wife, Leeberta McCree; two sons, Byron and Melvyn; two daughters, Anita and Marsha, and two grandchildren.
      