
       Edward Sulzberger, a patriarch of the New York real estate industry who was chairman of the board and former president of Sulzberger-Rolfe, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        Edward Sulzberger, a patriarch of the New York real estate industry who was chairman of the board and former president of Sulzberger-Rolfe, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Sulzberger served as president of Sulzberger-Rolfe for 33 years. Under his guidance, the company became a diversified real estate organization involved in building management, cooperative conversions and sales, leasing, appraisals and urban redevelopment.
        He was a vigorous spokesman for the industry and was often in the public eye. In 1967, he represented the industry in negotiations during a building service strike. Opposed Rent Control
        A critic of rent control, Mr. Sulzberger once predicted that ''New York's housing will become a massive and growing slum, if rent control is continued.''
        He was born in a brownstone on East 72d Street. His father, Myron Sulzberger, was a lawyer who served as a Municipal Court judge for 17 years.
        Mr. Sulzberger attended DeWitt Clinton High School and the Dwight School, and graduated in 1929 from Brown University, where he met his wife, the former Maye Dorfman, who attended Pembroke College.
        His first venture after graduation was a baking business. But an allergy to flour sent him into real estate, and by 1942 he was handling 50 buildings.
        Ten years later he acquired the company of Joseph H. Nassoit, changing its name in 1966 to Sulzberger-Rolfe. He joined his own name with that of his business partner and son-in-law, N. Anthony Rolfe, who succeeded him as president this year. Served on Housing Panel
        Mr. Sulzberger was appointed in 1982 by President Reagan to the board of directors of the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships. The board was created to increase the participation of private industry in the construction of housing for low- and moderate-income families.
        Mr. Sulzberger was a former president of the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee and the Association for Government Assisted Housing, honorary chairman of the New York Rent Stabilization Committee and a member of the Realty Foundation of New York.
        He was a trustee of Tougaloo College in Jackson, Miss., and a former trustee of Brown University. He was active in more than 30 civic groups, including the boards of directors of Doctors Hospital, B'nai Brith, the United Jewish Appeal and the Flying Doctors in Kenya. In 1986, he established the Edward Sulzberger Foundation, a philanthropic fund.
        Mr. Sulzberger was an avid golfer and was a member and former president of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club in Scarsdale, N.Y. He also collected handmade figures of soldiers in English and Scottish regiments.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their daughter, Susan S. Rolfe, three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        A service will be held at the Beth'El Chapel at Temple Emanu-El, 65th Street and Fifth Avenue, at 1 P.M. Sunday.
      