
       John S. Millis, chancellor emeritus of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, died of cancer Friday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        John S. Millis, chancellor emeritus of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, died of cancer Friday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        In more than 45 years as an educator, Mr. Millis earned a reputation as an energetic advocate of interdisciplinary studies, and was widely recognized as an authority on medical education.
        The son of an economics professor, Mr. Millis was born in Palo Alto, Calif., and attended grade school in Lawrence, Kan., and an experimental high school at the University of Chicago. Entered College at 16
        He entered the University of Chicago at the age of 16, earning an undergraduate degree in mathematics and astronomy. He then received master's and doctoral degrees in physics there, studying under the physicist Albert A. Michelson, who had helped establish that the speed of light was a constant.
        Mr. Millis taught physics and served as dean at Lawrence College in Appleton, Wis., before becoming president of the University of Vermont in 1941. He was named president of Western Reserve University in 1949, and became chancellor of Case Western Reserve University in 1967 when Western Reserve University and Case Institute of Technology federated.
        In the course of his career, Mr. Millis served as chairman of the board of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, president of the Association of Urban Universities and president of the National Commission on Accrediting. Report on Medical Education
        He also served as chairman of the American Medical Association's Commission on Graduate Medical Education, which in 1966 issued an influential report, urging medical colleges to place new emphasis on the education of general practitioners.
        After his retirement, Mr. Millis served as an officer of the National Fund for Medical Education from 1969 to 1977, and as chairman of the National Board of Medical Examiners.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Roseberry Wisner; a son, Harry W., of Waite Hill, Ohio; two daughters, Jean Ann Gilpin of Princeton, N.J., and Alice Gertrude Vest of Montrose, Colo.; two sisters, Savilla Simons of Concord, Calif., and Charlotte Millis of St. Paul, Minn,; and seven grandchildren.
      