
       Samuel Ruben, a scientist who had no formal education beyond high school but whose inventions led to more than 300 patents, including the alkaline battery now in wide use, died Saturday in Milwaukie, Ore., where he lived in retirement. He was 88 years old and was a longtime resident of New Rochelle, N.Y., before moving to the West Coast three years ago.
        Samuel Ruben, a scientist who had no formal education beyond high school but whose inventions led to more than 300 patents, including the alkaline battery now in wide use, died Saturday in Milwaukie, Ore., where he lived in retirement. He was 88 years old and was a longtime resident of New Rochelle, N.Y., before moving to the West Coast three years ago.
        Mr. Ruben was a research scientist and inventor who made many pioneering contributions in electrochemistry and applied electrochemical engineering. Although he never earned a college degree, let alone an engineering certificate or a doctorate, he received many academic honors.
        He remained active in retirement and at his death was an adjunct professor of physics at Reed College in Portland, Ore.
        Mr. Ruben was far better known in the scientific and business world than he was to the general public. Many of his inventions were hidden in larger products. His dry electrolytic condenser, for example, was found in nearly every radio and television set manufactured for decades and in the starters of most electric motors, with several hundred million condensers produced annually. A Compact Battery
        He invented a compact, mercuric-oxide dry-cell battery used in such diverse products as electronic watches, earth satellites, heart pacemakers and distress-signal transmitters used in airplanes.
        Because early vacuum tubes for radios took so long to heat up, Mr. Ruben invented the ''7-second tube'' that made it possible for listeners to flip a switch and hear broadcasts almost immediately.
        During World War II he came up with the sealed mercury battery that led to many advances in military technology. The battery, which was not affected by temperature extremes, maintained its voltage at full strength throughout its use. Millions were produced for the military services for walkie-talkies, mine detectors and various communications equipment.
        He voluntarily turned over all his patents to the Government during the war and canceled his royalty arrangements with his licensees. In 1944, he received a certificate of appreciation from the United States Signal Corps. An Inventive Mind
        Mr. Ruben was born in Harrison, N.J., and was educated in New York City public schools. He worked to support his family after graduating from high school, forgoing college for a tutorial education augmented by night classes.
        Possessed of an inventive mind, he received assistance and encouragement from a Columbia University physics professor, Bergen Davis, who arranged for him to attend lectures and to use the Columbia physics library. With the aid of Dr. Davis and others, Mr. Ruben set up his own small laboratory in the mid-1920's in New Rochelle, where he conducted his research for more than 60 years.
        One of his first important inventions, in the early 1920's, was the solid-state rectifier, a device that converted regular household electric current for use in radios. Before this, radios had been powered by lead-acid storage batteries, which frequently spilled over and ruined carpets and furniture. Size of Radios Reduced
        Next, he came up with the dry electrolytic capacitator, a small device that stored electricity, making it possible to reduce radically the cost and size of radios.
        Mr. Ruben held honorary doctorates from Columbia, Butler University and the Polytechnic Institute. He was named Inventor of the Year in 1965 by George Washington University. He held the Acheson Medal of the Elctrochemical Society and the Longstreth Medal of the Franklin Institute.
        In 1963 the P. R. Mallory Company, the licensee of many of Mr. Ruben's major inventions, dedicated its engineering laboratory in Tarrytown, N.Y., to him. From 1976 to 1984, he was a staff associate at Columbia, which in 1982 created a chair in electrochemistry at its School of Engineering and Applied Science to honor him and Peter G. Viele, the head of Duracell Inc., who died in that year and with whom Mr. Ruben had worked for many years.
        Mr. Ruben is survived by his wife, the former Rena Koch; a son, Laurens, of Portland; three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      