
       Jake W. Lindsey, a combat hero of World War II who received the Medal of Honor at a special Congressional ceremony, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Waynesboro, Miss. He was 67 years old. Mr. Lindsey, then a technical sergeant, was the 100th infantryman awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II.
        Jake W. Lindsey, a combat hero of World War II who received the Medal of Honor at a special Congressional ceremony, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Waynesboro, Miss. He was 67 years old. Mr. Lindsey, then a technical sergeant, was the 100th infantryman awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II. As such he received his medal from President Truman at a joint session of Congress in May 1945, six months after the exploits that earned him the award.
        In four days of fighting in the Huertgen Forest near Hamich, Germany, Sergeant Lindsey's platoon, an element of the First Infantry Division, had been reduced to 6 men of the original 40. The platoon captured its objective but faced an enemy counterattack. Fought Off Enemy Company
        The sergeant, although wounded, faced a German infantry company, backed by five tanks. With rifle and grenade fire, he killed more than 20 Germans, knocked out one of the tanks and then, after his ammunition was exhausted, took his bayonet and engaged in hand-to-hand combat.
        His citation, read by Gen. George C. Marshall, stated: ''His unerringly accurate fire destroyed two enemy machine-gun nests, forced the withdrawal of two tanks and effectively halted the enemy flanking patrol. Later, although painfully wounded, he engaged eight Germans, who were establishing a machine-gun position, in hand-to-hand combat, killing three, capturing three, and causing the other two to flee.'' 'The Essence of Victory'
        Mr. Lindsey, who was 24 years old at the time, quit high school in 1939 to enter the regular Army. He heard President Truman acclaim his gallantry as ''unselfish valor'' and ''the essence of victory.''
        Mr. Lindsey also served in the Korean War, in which he received a battlefield commission as a second lieutenant. Later he gave up his bars for the stripes of a master sergeant. He retired from the Army in 1963 and then spent 10 years with the United States Forest Service.
        He leaves his wife, Lucille; a son, William, and a daughter, Renee, all of Waynesboro; a son, Jake Jr., of Holbrook, Mass., and a daughter, Gail Darling, of Brockton, Mass.
      