
       David Chertok, a leading collector of jazz on film, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old.
        David Chertok, a leading collector of jazz on film, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Chertok created an archive of nearly 600 hours of film and showed his collection in nightclubs, concert halls and at colleges and jazz festivals. He also edited his films for television, an irony in that some of his material originated on television.
        In 1985, the Museum of Broadcasting mounted an exhibition, ''Jazz on Television,'' based largely on Mr. Chertok's material. He considered the 1950's and 60's to have been the heyday of jazz on American television.
        Mr. Chertok's collection featured nearly all the major jazz figures, including Bessie Smith, Louis Armstrong, Count Basie, John Coltrane, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, and Billie Holiday.
        ''The films add another dimension to your understanding of the musician,'' Mr. Chertok once told an interviewer. ''There is nothing on record that will tell you about how Coltrane held his horn, his embouchure and things like that.''
        Born in Poland, Mr. Chertok came to New York as an infant. He worked at the Sherman-Grinberg Film Library, a stock footage house, and began collecting jazz films in 1957.
        Since 1969 he devoted all his time to collecting and showing his films. His sources were American and European theatrical films, documentaries and television. He acquired the rare films by trading, he said, because purchasing them was too costly.
        Recently, he and a partner, Burrill Crohn, created three video cassettes: ''Trumpet Kings,'' with 25 solos by outstanding jazz trumpeters and a short history of the jazz trumpet; ''The Coltrane Legacy,'' and ''Piano Legends.''
        Mr. Chertok is survived by his wife, Corinne; a daughter, Linda; a son, Michael; a sister, Blanche; a brother, Bernard, and four grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street, at noon tomorrow.
      