
       Former Representative Robert N. McClory, a 10-term Republican from the Chicago suburbs and a key figure in the impeachment proceedings against Richard M. Nixon, died Sunday at Georgetown University Medical Center after a heart attack. He was 80 years old and lived in Washington and Gurnee, Ill..
        Former Representative Robert N. McClory, a 10-term Republican from the Chicago suburbs and a key figure in the impeachment proceedings against Richard M. Nixon, died Sunday at Georgetown University Medical Center after a heart attack. He was 80 years old and lived in Washington and Gurnee, Ill..
        Mr. McClory's wife, Doris, said he had returned from jogging and to get a newspaper Sunday morning when he collapsed. He died minutes after reaching the hospital.
        A conservative who was his party's second-ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. McClory was initially opposed to impeaching President Nixon, but tapes of Presidential conversations swayed him, and he helped draft charges that the committee considered in July 1974. Two 'Aye' Votes
        Under the Constitution, it was up to the Judiciary Committee to sift through the allegations of break-ins, cover-ups and interference with the Federal Bureau of Investigation that made up the Wategate scandal and decide whether criminal charges of obstruction of justice and failure to uphold that Constitution were warranted.
        ''I realize that there is no nice way to impeach a President of the United States,'' Mr. McClory told his colleagues in the debate.
        In the end, he voted against the article that accused Mr. Nixon of obstruction of justice, still unconvinced that the President was personally involved in criminal wrongdoing. He cast his ''Aye'' for two other articles citing Mr. Nixon for abuse of power and contempt of Congress.
        The committee votes at the end of July 1974 directly led to Mr. Nixon's resignation on Aug. 9, after yet more tapes left no doubt that maneuvers to cover up illgeal actions were discussed in the Oval Office. Teacher of English
        President Gerald R. Ford later pardoned his predecessor for whatever he might have done to break the laws he was sworn to uphold. But some of Mr. Nixon's closest aides, including his former Attorney General, John Mitchell,were tried and convicted.
        Mr. McClory was born Jan. 31, 1908, in Riverside, Ill. He spent a year teaching English and studying in Switzerland, where he became a pole-vaulting champion.
        Before turning to banking and the law, he attended Dartmouth College.
        Mr. McClory became a lawyer because a Chicago bank where he looked for a career foundered in 1932, just as he got a law degree from Chicago-Kent College of Law that was required for a promotion. While practicing law, he reluctantly entered politics and served in the Illinois State Legislature from 1951 to 1962, when he was elected to Congress.
        In 20 years in the House, he helped manage unsuccessful efforts to pass an equal rights amendment for women and sponsored legislation to observe several national holidays on Mondays. Denounced Redistricting
        The 1980 Census and a Federal Court order led to the reshaping of Illinois districts that Mr. McClory denounced as ''blatantly political.'' Rather than run in 1982 against another redistricted Republican, John Porter, he retired.
        He then worked with the Washington law firm of Baker & McKenzie.
        Mr. McClory married the former Doris Hibbard in 1969, after the death of his first wife, Audrey. Also surviving are two sons, Michael, of Washington, and Oliver, of Richmond, Calif.; a daughter, Beatrice Etienne of Geneva; a sister, Elizabeth Poole of Saint Helena, Calif.; a half-brother, Frederick McClory of Long Beach, Calif., six grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
        A memorial service is to be held Saturday at the United Methodist Church in Lake Bluff, Ill.
      