
       Eddie (Cleanhead) Vinson, an alto saxophonist and singer who got his start in be-bop and made his career in rhythm and blues, died of a heart attack Saturday at the California Medical Center here. He was 70 years old and had entered the hospital in mid-June for treatment of cancer of the esophagus.
        Eddie (Cleanhead) Vinson, an alto saxophonist and singer who got his start in be-bop and made his career in rhythm and blues, died of a heart attack Saturday at the California Medical Center here. He was 70 years old and had entered the hospital in mid-June for treatment of cancer of the esophagus.
        Mr. Vinson, whose rounded, golden sound on alto saxophone graced both big bands and small groups, was primarily known as a hoarse-shouting rhythm-and-blues singer.
        He was known for a swinging instrumental style balanced by mellifluous vocals. Yet it was as a saxophonist that he made his greatest musical contributions. At the time of his death he was considered one of America's finest be-bop saxophonists. A Clean-Shaven Head
        Mr. Vinson, who sang with the Cootie Williams Orchestra in the 1940's, was best known for such songs as ''Cherry Red,'' ''Kidney Stew Blues,'' and ''Somebody's Got To Go.'' He got his nickname for his clean-shaven head, which he often joked about in the lyrics of his songs, including ''Cleanhead Blues.''
        He was born Dec. 18, 1917 in Houston, Tex.; his parents were musicians.
        He toured through the South and Midwest with bands fronted by Chester Boone and Milton Larkin from the mid- to late 1930's, and in 1940 toured with blues legend Bill Broonzy. Formed His Own Orchestra
        Mr. Vinson moved to New York City in 1942, joined the Williams orchestra and recorded ''Cherry Red.'' After serving in the Army near the end of World War II, Mr. Vinson formed his own 16-piece orchestra and appeared with the Ink Spots. But he returned to Houston in 1954 to teach music.
        Rediscovered by bandleader Johnny Otis, Mr. Vinson moved to Los Angeles more than 20 years ago and revived his career with club engagements and new albums, including ''Kidney Stew is Fine,'' ''Cleanhead's Back in Town'' and ''You Can't Make Love Alone.'' Performed at Summer Festivals
        He was extremely popular among jazz and blues fans nationally, regularly performed at European summer jazz festivals, and made a series of appearances with Count Basie.
        One of his last performances was sponsored by the Southern California Blues Society earlier this year.
        ''As frail as he was at that last show when I talked to him backstage, when he got up to the stage his voice was very strong and his playing was wonderful,'' recalled Betty Miller, a member of the society. ''That showmanship always came through.''
        Mr. Vinson is survived by his wife of 51 years, Bernice; three daughters; five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      