
       Carter Cooper, who leaped to his death from the penthouse apartment of his mother, Gloria Vanderbilt, was eulogized yesterday as a young man who moved through life with grace, affirming ideals and principles he believed in.
        Carter Cooper, who leaped to his death from the penthouse apartment of his mother, Gloria Vanderbilt, was eulogized yesterday as a young man who moved through life with grace, affirming ideals and principles he believed in.
        ''If we hold his principles for him, if we dream his dreams for him, if we ennoble what we touch for him, then this reeling world will become a better place, a place of civility,'' said James Stewart, who said he had taught and advised Mr. Cooper at the Dalton School.
        Among the 2,000 mourners who listened to Mr. Stewart describe Mr. Cooper were the First Lady, Nancy Reagan, a longtime friend of his mother; the director Sidney Lumet, a former husband of Miss Vanderbilt; the designer Bill Blass; the magazine publisher Malcolm Forbes; the actress Dina Merrill, and the editor of Cosmopolitan magazine, Helen Gurley Brown. Some of the others who attended were Princeton University classmates of Mr. Cooper, some wearing orange-and-black ties emblazoned with the school mascot, a tiger. Mr. Cooper graduated last year.
        Mr. Cooper jumped from a ledge of Miss Vanderbilt's Gracie Square apartment on the Upper East Side last Friday after she tried to talk him out of it, the police said. Mr. Cooper, who went to his mother's apartment for lunch, had been under treatment recently for depression, the police said . He left no suicide note. Mr. Cooper was 23 years old. A Younger Brother Speaks
        Yesterday's service, at St. James Episcopal Church at 865 Madison Avenue, at 71st Street, began with brief remarks by Mr. Stewart; two other friends, Fernanda Eberstadt, a writer, and Matthew Bardin, a college classmate of Mr. Cooper's; and Mr. Cooper's younger brother, Anderson.
        Mrs. Reagan, wearing a black suit with white checks, arrived at the church about 35 minutes before the service began. But she did not enter the sanctuary until moments before the senior associate to the rector, the Rev. J. Seymour Flynn, appeared at the altar.
        Mr. Stewart read passages from F. Scott Fitzgerald and Evelyn Waugh, and Mr. Bardin addressed his remarks to Mr. Cooper.
        ''You were so uncompromising with yourself, so tough if someone paid you a compliment,'' Mr. Bardin said. ''You swam against the tide of popular sentiment, and for me, this simple daring was invigorating.''
        Anderson Cooper, his voice breaking with emotion, said his brother's soul was ''golden and true.''
        ''It's hard to believe he's not going to wander in here absent-mindedly, laugh good-naturedly and apologize for all the trouble he's caused, and then ask Mom to make him some spaghetti,'' Anderson Cooper said. ''We must all take heart. Carter is without pain.''
        After the service, Mrs. Reagan and Miss Vanderbilt embraced in Mrs. Reagan's limousine.
      