
       Stuart Z. Perlman, who with his brother founded Caesars World Inc., a chain of opulent gambling casinos and hotels, and then severed ties with it amid charges of ties to suspected organized-crime figures, died of a heart attack Monday at the North Miami Medical Center in North Miami Beach, Fla. He was 60 years old.
        Stuart Z. Perlman, who with his brother founded Caesars World Inc., a chain of opulent gambling casinos and hotels, and then severed ties with it amid charges of ties to suspected organized-crime figures, died of a heart attack Monday at the North Miami Medical Center in North Miami Beach, Fla. He was 60 years old.
        Until 1981, Mr. Perlman and his brother Clifford were the chief officers and largest shareholders of Caesars World, which grew from a single Las Vegas casino, Caesars Palace, into a national chain that included luxury hotels, gambling casinos and a string of honeymoon hotels in the Poconos.
        That year, under pressure from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, which accused the brothers of doing business with people believed to be organized-crime figures, the Perlmans sold their shares in Caesars World for a total of about $99 million.
        From then until his death, Mr. Perlman invested in a number of other companies and joined with his brother in real-estate development projects in New Jersey, Virginia and elsewhere. A Restaurant Chain
        Mr. Perlman, who was born in Philadelphia in 1927, went into business for himself selling clothes and other dry goods in Philadelphia after serving in the United States merchant marine and in the Army.
        He then moved to Florida, where he and his brother opened a moderately priced restaurant, Lum's. Eventually, the venture grew to a chain of about 450 restaurants by that name around the world. In 1969, the brothers purchased Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, a casino hotel that catered to a glittery, high-rolling clientele. The brothers then formed Caesars World, a corporation that encompassed Caesars Palace and subsequent holdings, and sold their interest in Lums.
        In 1980, the Perlman brothers, seeking to widen their expanding empire of casinos, applied for a permanent license to operate the Boardwalk Regency in Atlantic City, which had been operating under a temporary license. But the effort was stymied by accusations that some of their business associates were involved in organized crime. Active in Real Estate
        The New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement put Mr. Perlman and his brother on a list of people deemed ''unsuitable'' for casino licenses. Soon afterward, the State Casino Control Commission forced the brothers to sell their 18 percent share in Caesars World, valued at about $99 million, and to resign from their posts as chairman and vice chairman, saying it would not grant a license to the Boardwalk Regency otherwise.
        At the time of Mr. Perlman's death, he and his brother were active in real-estate development in southern New Jersey, where they had become a major builder of homes and shopping centers. They also operated luxury hotels in New Jersey and overseas.
        In Miami, Mr. Perlman organized and financed a rehabilitation program for juvenile criminals. He also was a founder of the Ner Tamid Synagogue in Miami Beach, and was a contributor to Jewish philanthropies.
        In addition to his brother, who lives in Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Harriet; a sister, Marilyn Tredwell of Miami; three sons, Scott and Richard, of Miami, and Brett, of Atlantic City, and a granddaughter.
      