
       Harold Ross Harris, a retired Air Force brigadier general and one of the nation's most distinguished pilots, died of pneumonia and other complications yesterday at his home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 92 years old.
        Harold Ross Harris, a retired Air Force brigadier general and one of the nation's most distinguished pilots, died of pneumonia and other complications yesterday at his home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 92 years old.
        General Harris's career as a pilot included top posts in military and civilian aviation. He served as a bomber pilot in Italy in World War I, and after the war became one of the nation's first test pilots. In World War II he became a brigadier general and became chief of staff of the Air Transport Command.
        Between the wars and after World War II General Harris was an executive for several airlines, including Pan American World Airways and Northwest Airlines.
        His interest in airplanes began when, as a 14-year-old boy, he attended the first air meet in Los Angeles. By the time he was 20 he was flying the rickety airplanes of the day. In 1917 he joined the Army Signal Corps and went to Foggia, Italy, as a pilot of Caproni bombers. His commanding officer was Fiorello H. La Guardia, who later became Mayor of New York City. An Early Parachute Jump
        General Harris was one of the first people in the United States to bail out of an airplane in an emergency, a feat he was forced to undertake in October 1922 when an experimental fighter he was testing developed structural problems and began to break up.
        ''We happened to be doing some experimental work with parachutes and I had one of them on,'' he said in an interview in 1953. ''I got out.''
        He also was the first person to pilot an airplane with a pressurized cabin whe he flew over the Alps in 1920.
        In addition, he helped set up the first lighted runway near Dayton, Ohio, and flew the first night airmail between Dayton and Columbus, Ohio. #13 World Flying Records As chief of the flight section at McCook Field in Dayton, where he served from 1920 to 1925, he held 13 world flying records, including speed records for 1,000 and 2,000 kilometers, as well as endurance and altitude records. In 1923, as a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, he and a civilian co-pilot set speed records for a 1,000-kilometer distance by averaging 126 miles an hour.
        He resigned his commission in 1926 to become the general manager of a crop-dusting company. He later mapped air routes in South America and helped develop Peruvian Airways, the forerunner of Pan American Grace Airways.
        After World War II General Harris became vice president and general manager of American Overseas Airlines. When the airline merged with Pan American in 1950 he became vice president of its Atlantic division.
        In 1953 he became president and chief executive officer of Northwest Airlines. Two years later he resigned from Northwest to become president of Aviation Financial Services Inc., where he was involved in airline financing until his retirement in 1965. Founder of the Wings Club
        General Harris was a founding member and later president of the Wings Club, a New York center for members of the aviation industry. In 1963 he started a ''sight lecture'' series, which brought leading figures in aviation to speak about ''insights, hindsights and foresights'' of aviation.
        He was born in Chicago on Dec. 20, 1895, and was a graduate of the California Instititute of Technology and of the Air Force Engineering School.
        General Harris was a fellow of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences. Besides the Wings Club, he was a member of the Society of Automotive Engineers, the University Club of New York, the Quiet Birdmen and the Cloud Club.
        He held the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Air Medal and decorations from Britain, Italy, Ecuador and Peru.
        General Harris is survived by two children, Harold R. Harris Jr. and Alta Mae Stevens, both of Falmouth.
        The family requests that in lieu of flowers donations be made to charities. A memorial service will be held on Aug. 7 at 2 P.M. in the First Congregational Church in Falmouth. NWAd(Northwest Airlines)
      