
       Richard Stetson Morse, a scientist and inventor with a knack for turning inventions into commercial successes, including high-vacuum machines and frozen orange juice concentrate, died Friday of a heart attack at his summer home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 76 years old and a resident of Wellesley, Mass.
        Richard Stetson Morse, a scientist and inventor with a knack for turning inventions into commercial successes, including high-vacuum machines and frozen orange juice concentrate, died Friday of a heart attack at his summer home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 76 years old and a resident of Wellesley, Mass.
        He was born in Abington, Mass., near Boston, and received a bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and studied physics at the Technische Hochschule in Munich. He then went to work for the Eastman Kodak Company in Rochester in 1935.
        In 1940, he founded the National Research Corporation of Cambridge, Mass., to develop techniques and products and then persuade manufacturers to use or make them. Uses for Vacuums
        Among the successes scored by Dr. Morse and his staff were vacuum processes to powder drugs, coat optical lenses, dehydrate food without sacrificing taste or vitamins and refine metals without impurities. He helped set up what became the Minute Maid Corporation and started marketing frozen orange juice concentrate in 1946.
        National Research also helped develop instant coffee, antibiotics and machinery for television and radar tube production.
        After serving as a Government adviser on chemical, biological and radiological warfare for several years, Dr. Morse left National Research, which later was acquired by the Norton Company, in 1959 to become director of research and development for the Army. His responsibilities were broadened in 1961 and he was appointed an Assistant Secretary of the Army.
        Dr. Morse resigned within a few months without public comment. But he had publicly criticized the Kennedy Administration's decision to hold off with the development of the Nike Zeus anti-missile missile and Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara's order assigning most space research to the Air Force. Returned to M.I.T.  After leaving Washington, he became involved in efforts to reduce automobile pollution and search for cleaner alternatives to the combustion engine. He also returned to M.I.T. in 1961 as senior lecturer at its Sloan School of Management.
        M.I.T. then asked Dr. Morse to set up an experimental foundation to help launch new enterprises. Using his experience with new ventures at National Research, he was assigned the task of finding ways to bridge the gap separating the inventor from the investor and manufacturer, thus easing new technologies into the market place.
        He retired from M.I.T. and the M.I.T. Development Foundation in 1977.  Dr. Morse is survived by his wife, the former Marian Elsa Baitz; two sons, Richard S. Jr., of West Newton, Mass., and Kenneth P., of Wellesley; a sister, Elizabeth M. Thomas of Hingham, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date.
      