
       Gustave G. Rosenberg, a lawyer who was chairman of the New York City Board of Higher Education a quarter-century ago during controversies over free college tuition and control of the City University, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Mr. Rosenberg was a prominent trial lawyer in 1952 when he was appointed to the board, which sets policy for the City University.
        Gustave G. Rosenberg, a lawyer who was chairman of the New York City Board of Higher Education a quarter-century ago during controversies over free college tuition and control of the City University, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Mr. Rosenberg was a prominent trial lawyer in 1952 when he was appointed to the board, which sets policy for the City University. Five years later he was elected chairman, a nonsalaried, supposedly part-time post to which he gave full time.
        An outspoken advocate of free public higher education, he led a highly charged political fight against imposition of fees at City College and other schools of the municipal college system. He also fought against attempts to shift control of the university to the state, the major provider of funds for the university's four major colleges -City, Brooklyn, Queens and Hunter -and the community college system that was then growing rapidly.
        But the most contentious dispute during Mr. Rosenberg's tenure was between the board and its top operating officers, led by the Chancellor, Dr. Albert H. Bowker. The Chancellor, together with the presidents of Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges and the academic dean of the university, accused Mr. Rosenberg and the board of going beyond their policy-setting role, interfering in operating matters and demanding ''fealty'' of the administrators. Resigned Chairmanship in 1966
        Mr. Rosenberg, in turn, accused Dr. Bowker and the others of failing to carry out board policies and of working to end free tuition and to bring about state control. At the height of the controversy the four officials resigned, but the dispute was settled and the resignations were withdrawn. Before long, however, most of the participants had left the scene, including Mr. Rosenberg, who resigned in 1966 for what he said were personal reasons, After serving briefly as head of the City University's construction arm, he resumed a quest he had begun several years earlier: to become a state Supreme Court justice.
        Political infighting between the Manhattan and Bronx Democratic clubhouse factions had long prevented his securing a nomination for the bench despite the strong support of Mayor Robert F. Wagner. Finally, in 1967, he was appointed by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller to fill a vacancy. The following fall, running as a Republican-Liberal, he was defeated for election.
        But the Governor again came to his aid. In 1969, only a year before he was to reach the retirement age of 70, Mr. Rosenberg was named a Court of Claims justice. Instead of retiring, he sought and received three two-year waivers, the maximum permitted, and continued to serve until 1976. He then returned to a law practice that he had started in 1922. At 5, a Gas Lamp Lighter
        Born in the last months of the 19th century in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, one of seven children of Polish immigrants, Gustave George Rosenberg went to work at age 5 lighting gas lamps in lower Manhattan. He worked at the New York Public Library while going to Stuyvesant High School and, after serving in the United States Army in World War I, he went to City College and to New York University, where he earned his law degree in 1921. A month later he married Jeanette Scheer, a former yeomanette in the Navy.
        He is survived by Mrs. Rosenberg, one of their three children, a son, Lawrence, of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      