
       Lee Weyer, a National League baseball umpire for the last 26 years, died of a heart attack Monday night in San Mateo, Calif. He was 51 years old.
        Lee Weyer, a National League baseball umpire for the last 26 years, died of a heart attack Monday night in San Mateo, Calif. He was 51 years old.
        Mr. Weyer collapsed while visiting the home of a fellow umpire, Ed Montague, the San Mateo County Coroner's office reported. He had been the umpire at first base in the game Sunday between the San Francisco Giants and the Chicago Cubs.
        Mr. Weyer was pronounced dead at Mills Hospital in San Mateo. Some Memorable Games
        In 1974, Mr. Weyer was the third-base umpire when Hank Aaron hit his 715th home run to pass Babe Ruth at the top of the major league career list. ''I was the one who grabbed the fan who came onto the field and followed Aaron as he circled the bases,'' the umpire once recalled.
        Mr. Weyer was behind the plate in 1985 when Pete Rose singled for his 4,192d hit, breaking Ty Cobb's record.
        ''I told him three, four, five years ago that I was going to be behind the plate when he broke it,'' Mr. Weyer said, referring to Rose. ''This was a great thrill. A lot of people from all over the world would have loved to see it. It's just part of our job.'' World Series Controversy
        Last season, Mr. Weyer was involved in a controversy while umpiring at first base in Game 7 of the World Series between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Minnesota Twins.
        With the score tied at 2-2, the Cardinals' Tom Herr was on first base with one out when Frank Viola picked Herr off.
        After a rundown, Viola, who was covering first base, tagged Herr and Weyer called him out. Taped replays showed that Herr was safe. The Twins went on to win, 4-2. Admitting a Bad Call
        ''I know that I missed the one on Tom Herr,'' Weyer said later. ''I got blocked out on the play.''
        Mr. Weyer umpired in the Midwest League, the Southern Association and the International League before working his first National League game in September 1961. He became a regular member of the league's staff the next year, and was second to Doug Harvey in seniority among National League umpires.
        He umpired in four All-Star Games, five League Championship Series and four World Series.
        Mr. Weyer was born Sept. 3, 1936, in Imlay City, Mich., and lived in Lauder Lakes, Fla., and Hollywood, Calif. He is survived by two sisters, Gladys Fellers of Gretnor, La., and Zola Smith of Imlay City.
      