
       David T. Wilentz, the New Jersey Attorney General who in 1935 successfully prosecuted Bruno Richard Hauptmann in the Lindbergh kidnapping and later became one of the state's most powerful Democratic politicians, died in his sleep yesterday morning at his home in Long Branch, N.J. He was 93 years old.
        David T. Wilentz, the New Jersey Attorney General who in 1935 successfully prosecuted Bruno Richard Hauptmann in the Lindbergh kidnapping and later became one of the state's most powerful Democratic politicians, died in his sleep yesterday morning at his home in Long Branch, N.J. He was 93 years old.
        Although he had reduced his political activities in the last decade, Mr. Wilentz remained vigorous and regularly worked at his law office in Woodbridge, N.J. He spent several hours at his desk on Tuesday. Family members declined last night to speculate on the cause of his death.
        After taking on the prosecutor's role in the Lindbergh case, Mr. Wilentz was catapulted to worldwide attention as the sensational case unfolded, ending in a six-week trial in a tiny courtroom in Flemington, N.J., that was reported daily by newspapers and radio stations around the world. First Criminal Case
        It was the first criminal case Mr. Wilentz had ever tried. A year earlier he had been appointed Attorney General at the behest of Frank Hague, then the Mayor of Jersey City and the state's undisputed political boss. Mr. Wilentz had a successful law practice in Perth Amboy at the time and was chairman of the Middlesex County Democratic Committee. He was reported to have told Mr. Hague, ''If I take the office, I will be no dummy.''
        When he became Attorney General he had no inkling that he would soon be world-famous. Charles A. Lindbergh Jr., the infant son of the aviator who flew the first solo trans-Atlantic flight from New York to Paris, had been kidnapped from the family mansion in Hopewell in March 1932.
        The child's body was found two months later in a shallow grave, but it was not until September 1934 that Mr. Hauptmann, a German-immigrant carpenter, was arrested. Some of the $50,000 ransom money paid by the family was traced to Mr. Hauptmann, and the ladder used by the kidnapper to reach the child's nursery window contained a board from Mr. Hauptmann's attic.
        During the trial, which began on Jan. 2, 1935, the prosecutor's demeanor attracted instant attention. A short, wiry man, Mr. Wilentz dressed nattily and spoke with a sharp, satirical tongue that he had used to good advantage in political caucuses. Outside the courthouse, cameras focused on his sassafras-colored felt hat. Intricate Web of Evidence
        He presented the intricate web of circumstantial evidence against Mr. Hauptmann effectively, and the jury returned a guilty verdict. After appeals and continued controversy, including intervention by Gov. Harold G. Hoffman, Mr. Hauptmann was electrocuted on April 3, 1936, maintaining his innocence to the end.
        Mr. Wilentz said many times in later years, after supposedly new evidence came to light, that there was no question in his mind that Mr. Hauptmann was guilty. In 1981 Mr. Hauptmann's widow brought a $100 million damage suit against Mr. Wilentz and the state, seeking to overturn the verdict, but it came to naught.
        In the wake of the trial, Mr. Wilentz's new-found fame helped to increase his influence within New Jersey's Democratic Party. By 1940 his Middlesex Democratic organization was second only to Mayor Hague's Hudson County Democratic machine. Mr. Wilentz and several other county leaders gradually consolidated power on their own and when Mr. Hague was overthrown in 1950, they were ready to take over.
        With Mayor John V. Kenny of Jersey City, who defeated Mr. Hague, Mr. Wilentz helped found the National Democratic Club of New Jersey, which soon wrested control of the party's state committee from the Hague forces. By the mid-1950's Mr. Wilentz and a few other leaders were able to choose gubernatorial and senatorial nominees. Power to Be Reckoned With
        A decade later, now a member of the Democratic National Committee -and given New Jersey's frequently pivotal role in politics - he was a power to be reckoned with in selecting Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates. He had been a delegate to every Democratic National Convention since 1940 and was increasingly active in behind-the-scenes brokering. Within New Jersey he was a close adviser to each governor the Democrats elected.
        Through it all, Mr. Wilentz maintained a thriving law practice, with his clients including many business concerns and, when gambling was legalized in Atlantic City, casinos that opened there.
        His sons, Warren and Robert, had joined him in the family firm. Robert remained a member until 1979, when he was named Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court, a position he still holds. Warren was an unsuccessful candidate for United States Senate in 1966, losing to Clifford Case.
        David Theodore Wilentz was born in Lithuania in 1894. The next year his parents brought him to the United States, where they settled in Perth Amboy, N.J. When he graduated from high school, he got a job with The Perth Amboy Evening News, hoping to become sports editor one day. The job was held by Harold Hoffman, the man who later became Governor, and when Mr. Hoffman quit, Mr. Wilentz succeeded him, also becoming manager of the local basketball team. Night Classes at Law School
        He commuted to Manhattan to attend night classes at New York Law School. When the United States entered World War I, he joined the Army as a private and emerged as a lieutenant. After the war, he got his law degree and soon was in private practice in Perth Amboy and plunging into Democratic politics.
        He became the City Attorney in Perth Amboy and in 1928 was elected Democratic chairman for Middlesex County. He reorganized the party machine and swept out of office the Republicans who had held sway in the county for 10 years. The Republican chairman at the time was Mr. Hoffman. A few years later came the offer from Mr. Hague for Mr. Wilentz to become State Attorney General.
        In addition to his sons, Warren, of Edison, N.J., and Robert, of Deal, N.J., Mr. Wilentz is survived by his wife, the former Lena Goldman, whom he married in 1919; a daughter, Norma Hess, who is the wife of Leon Hess, the oilman and owner of the Jets football team; a sister, Ada Trynin of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held today at 2 P.M. at Temple Beth Mordecai, at 224 High Street in Perth Amboy.
      