
       Philip H. Weinberg, a lawyer who served as appointments secretary to two governors of New York, died of leukemia Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Philip H. Weinberg, a lawyer who served as appointments secretary to two governors of New York, died of leukemia Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Weinberg, managing partner of the law firm of Rivkin, Radler, Dunne & Bayh, of Garden City, L.I., was named appointments secretary to Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1972, during the last of Mr. Rockefeller's four terms in office.
        After Mr. Rockefeller resigned in 1973, Mr. Weinberg held the same post under his successor and fellow Republican, Malcolm Wilson, and was deputy director of Mr. Wilson's unsuccessful 1974 election campaign. As appointments secretary, he recruited and screened candidates for hundreds of non-civil service positions in state government, state commissions and public authorities.
        Mr. Weinberg was born in Brooklyn and attended Adelphi College before receiving a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1954. He practiced law with his father in Jamaica, Queens, until 1963, when he became executive director of the New York State Republican Committee. Joined Rockefeller in '69
        In 1966 he was appointed counsel to the Speaker of the Assembly, Perry B. Duryea Jr., Republican of Montauk. He moved to Mr. Rockefeller's staff in 1969, where he held a variety of staff positions before becoming appointments secretary.
        State Senator John R. Dunne, Republican of Garden City, and Mr. Weinberg's law partner, said that Mr. Weinberg, as the law firm's managing partner, was largely responsible for its expansion in the last five years from a 50-lawyer Long Island firm to a firm with 200 lawyers and offices in New York, Washington, Chicago and Los Angeles. Rivkin, Radler specializes in environmental law.
        Mr. Weinberg is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Hughes; his father, Morris, of Lauderhill, Fla., and two sisters, Edythe Block of Boca Raton, Fla., and Meta Lane, of Coconut Grove, Fla.
        A funeral will be held today at 11:30 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at Madison Avenue and 81st Street in Manhattan.
      