
       Frank Wille, a banker who had been chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and New York Superintendent of Banks, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 57 years old.
        Frank Wille, a banker who had been chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and New York Superintendent of Banks, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Wille, at his death, was chairman and chief executive officer of the Greater New York Savings Bank, a post he had held since 1981. For five years before joining the bank and after he had left the Government, he was a member of the New York law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft.
        During his six years as chairman of the F.D.I.C., beginning in 1970, Mr. Wille was faced with the first major crisis in the banking industry since the Depression. The recession that began in 1973 and continued through 1974 resulted in severe lending losses for many banks. The agency, which insures depositors' accounts, had to contend with the failures of the Franklin National Bank on Long Island and the United States National Bank in San Diego. A third major institution, the Bank of the Commonwealth in Detroit, was kept open by long-term financial assistance from the deposit corporation.
        In this period, Mr. Wille and his colleagues, together with other Federal and state agencies, devised techniques to assure that the experiences of 1933, when many depositors lost their savings, were not repeated. Working with the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve System and state officials, the F.D.I.C. was able to move accounts from the failing banks to solvent institutions. Spokesman for the Industry
        Before his appointment, Mr. Wille had been for six years the chief bank regulator in New York. He proposed and supported legislation to foster competition. Commercial banks were permitted to engage in direct-lease financing and offer travel-agency services. Savings banks and savings and loan associations were authorized to offer day-of-deposit-to-day-of-withdrawal interest and to widen their investments.
        After he left the Government, Mr. Wille became a spokesman for the thrift industry. At Greater New York, he instituted consumer-services programs and promoted community activities at branches in Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens and in Nassau and Westchester Counties.
        Mr. Wille, a native of New York, was an alumnus of Phillips Andover Academy and received his bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1951. He served for three years during the Korean War as an officer on the carrier Leyte before returning to Harvard for his law degree. While working with the firm that is now Davis, Polk & Wardwell, he earned a master's degree in law at New York University.
        In 1960, Mr. Wille joined the staff of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller as an assistant counsel. Four years later, he was named Superintendent of Banks and chairman of the Banking Board.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Barbara Bowen; two daughters, Serena and Alison; his mother, Alma Wille of Lexington, Mass., and a sister, Vivian B. Wheeler of Magnolia, Mass.
        A service will be held Monday at 2 P.M. at St. Barnabas Church in Greenwich.
      