
       Alfred Reginald Allen, who had a long career as an assistant general manager at the Metropolitan Opera and as the executive director of operations for Lincoln Center, died last Sunday in Washington. He was 83 years old.
        Alfred Reginald Allen, who had a long career as an assistant general manager at the Metropolitan Opera and as the executive director of operations for Lincoln Center, died last Sunday in Washington. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Allen, who was also known as an expert on Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, was born in Philadelphia and educated at Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College. His first venture into the performing-arts business came in 1926 when he did promotion for the Victor Talking Machine Company.
        After a period in Africa as part of a scientific expedition, he returned to the United States and became a copywriter for advertising agencies in Philadelphia and New York. This led to an association with Leopold Stokowski, and subsequently to Mr. Allen's election to the board of the Philadelphia Orchestra and to a job as the orchestra's manager beginning in 1935. In the latter post he succeeded Arthur Judson, the powerful artists' manager. Served in World War II
        In 1939, Mr. Allen became head of the scenario department at Universal Pictures in Hollywood. That career was interrupted by World War II, in which he served as a lieutenant commander in Air Combat Intelligence.
        After working for the J. Arthur Rank organization in postwar Hollywood, Mr. Allen returned to work at the Metropolitan Opera. He helped preside over the transition from Edward Johnson's regime at the house to that of Rudolf Bing. Mr. Allen worked at the Metropolitan until his retirement in 1969, except for a five-year interlude when he moved to the Lincoln Center project and supervised the Metropolitan's transition to its new headquarters.
        His subsequent activities included executive positions at the American Academy in Rome and with D'Oyle Carte Inc.; from 1971, he was curator of the Gilbert and Sullivan Collection of the Pierpont Morgan Library. Mr. Allen published two books on Gilbert and Sullivan operettas.
        Mr. Allen's wife, the former Helen Howe of Boston, died in 1975. He is survived by two nieces and a nephew.
      