
       C. Jared Ingersoll, a former railroad executive and Philadelphia civic leader, died yesterday in his sleep in Dunwoody Village, a retirement home in New Town Square, Pa. He was 94 years old.
        C. Jared Ingersoll, a former railroad executive and Philadelphia civic leader, died yesterday in his sleep in Dunwoody Village, a retirement home in New Town Square, Pa. He was 94 years old.
        A graduate of Princeton University, Mr. Ingersoll joined the Midland Valley Railroad Company as a clerk in 1920. By 1932, he was president of five railroads and later became chairman of a railroad holding company.
        After World War II he received the Medal of Merit from President Truman for his wartime services as chief of ordnance for the Philadelphia district, carrying out war contracts. In 1953, he served on President Eisenhower's Advisory Committee on Army Organization.
        He was a co-founder of the Greater Philadelphia Movement to redevelop and revitalize the city and a former member of the Philadelphia Planning Commission. He purchased and donated to the state two historic properties in Fort Washington, Pa., Hope Lodge and Farmar's Mill. He also restored an 18th-century house on Society Hill.
        He was a former director of the United Fund, the Community Fund, Temple University Research Institute and the University of Pennsylvania Hospital.
        Mr. Ingersoll was a former director of the United States Steel Corporation, the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Insurance Company of North America. He was a former member of the National council of the Episcopal Church.
        As a member of the Sons of the American Revolution, he refused to paricipate in an event honoring Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin in 1954 when Mr. McCarthy was using his positions as chairman of two Senate panels to direct an anti-Communist crusade.
        Surviving are his wife, Agnes; three daughters, Anna Roberts of Fort Washington, Sally Fox of Stephentown, N.Y. and Gainor Miller of Philadelphia; two stepdaughters, Ann Clay of Arlington, Vt. and Ellen Clay of Honeyoye Falls, N.Y., 23 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
      