
       Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died late Saturday at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old.
        Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died late Saturday at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old.
        Mr. Presser, who underwent brain cancer surgery in May, died at 10 P.M. Saturday, a spokesman for Lakewood Hospital, John Kerezy, said.
        The immediate cause of death, Mr. Kerezy said, was cardiac arrest. Mr. Presser had been admitted June 28 with a blood clot on his right lung. Led Union Into Mainstream
        Mr. Presser had led the long-besieged teamsters' union back into the mainstream of American labor. Last fall the teamsters were readmitted to the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which had ousted them in the 1950's over corruption charges.
        That success notwithstanding, Mr. Presser had been able to do little to stem his union's reputation for ties to the underworld.
        The day he was admitted to Lakewood Hospital, the Justice Department filed suit in an effort to oust him and other senior leaders of the teamsters and to put the union under the control of a Government trustee. The suit alleged a decades-long ''devil's pact'' between the teamster leadership and organized crime.
        And in a report issued two years ago, the White House Commission on Organized Crime concluded that Mr. Presser himself would never have become the teamsters' president without assistance from Anthony (Fat Tony) Salerno, head of the New York-based Genovese crime family. But in May a New York jury found Mr. Salerno and two other defendants not guilty of fixing teamsters elections although he and eight others were convicted of other racketeering charges.
        At his death Mr. Presser was facing a Federal trial on charges of siphoning union money with which to pay organized-crime figures for jobs they had not performed. The trial had been delayed indefinitely because of his poor health.
        His health also led Mr. Presser to announce in May that he was taking a four-month leave of absence. He turned over interim control of the union to its secretary-treasurer, Weldon L. Mathis, who is considered the leading candidate to succeed Mr. Presser.
        Several labor analysts said they expected a fairly smooth transition. ''I don't expect any upheaval or grave unrest in the short term, because an acting president is in place,'' said Sar Levitan, a labor economist at George Washington University. He added that ''the union has had a lot of problems, but it's a well-run organization, with people who have been working together for years. I don't sense a lot of rivalry between them.'' 'Some Scurrying Around'
        Victor Kamber, a Washington consultant who has worked closely with the teamsters, said that he expected that there might be a ''brief battle for the leadership.'' He added, ''There will be an election for the new president within 15 days. Over the next several days we are likely to see some scurrying around to see what happens.''
        In a statement yesterday on behalf of the union's executive board, Mr. Mathis said: ''He will be long remembered for his progressive ideas and deep commitment to the labor movement. He was a great communicator and spokesman for the needs and concerns of working people throughout the 80's and throughout his distinguished career, spanning some four decades.''
        An eighth-grade dropout and one-time jukebox delivery boy, Mr. Presser became an influential and image-conscious union leader. When he took over the teamsters' top job in 1983, he promised to end their strong-arm reputation, which was as much a part of union lore as allegations that top teamster officials had ties to organized crime.
        It was an elusive goal. By the time he came to power, the union had been a subject of Federal investigations for 30 years. Previous teamster presidents had run into trouble dealing with both Government and gangsters. Three of Mr. Presser's four predecessors had been indicted, and he got his chance at the teamsters' presidency only because his immediate predecessor, Roy L. Williams, stepped aside after a bribery-conspiracy conviction in Chicago. 'Wouldn't Last Two Minutes'
        Mr. Presser soon found himself facing charges that he was a front man for organized crime and that the Mafia served as the teamsters' ''shadow governing body.'' James Fratianno, a convicted Mafia assassin, testified: ''The Cleveland family moved Presser up. And he knows without them people he wouldn't last two minutes in the teamsters' union.''
        Unlike members of the steel and mineworkers' unions, the teamsters never got to vote directly for their president. Under union rules, Mr. Presser was elected by delegates chosen by the members, although each teamster paid $4 a month to support Mr. Presser and the other national officers. This amounted to a $75 million-a-year bonanza that Federal investigators contended was spent mostly on six-figure salaries, luxury cars and expense accounts for Mr. Presser and his top aides.
        Mr. Presser was the nation's highest-paid union official, earning $530,000 from the teamsters in 1984. And he seemed unconcerned that he took home more than many chief executives of the companies his members worked for. 'Million Through the Union'
        ''I'm a millionaire,'' he said. ''So what? I can't be induced with bribes under the table. I can make a million through the union.''
        In his effort to lead the union on its uphill climb to respectability, he shed the pinkie rings and diamond bracelets that he had worn as a union organizer in Cleveland and traded in his loud sports jackets for conservative, custom-tailored suits. He also tried diet after diet in a mostly unsuccessful effort to keep from tipping the scale at more than 300 pounds.
        The grandson of a Jewish immigrant from Austria who fought on picket lines in the New York garment district, Jackie Presser was born in Cleveland on Aug. 6, 1926. His father, William Presser, was a nationally known teamster leader and a protege of Jimmy Hoffa, and Jackie's ambition was always to head the teamsters.
        ''Yes, my hunger in the beginning was for what my father had achieved in his lifetime, and I felt I could fill those shoes,'' Mr. Presser said in 1983. But he added, ''The time comes when you suddenly find those shoes are really too tight for you.''
        His father was ultimately elected leader of the Ohio teamsters and emerged as a major figure within the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and Joiners. But when Jackie Presser was young, his father was a poorly paid organizer. The father stuffed newspapers in shoes he could not afford to have repaired and shuttled his family from apartment to apartment, moving in at the beginning of the month and moving out at the end of the same month because he did not have rent money. Back From the Navy
        Jackie Presser joined the Navy at age 17 and was hired for his first union job after he came home after World War II. He signed on as a staff member of Local 10 of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union in Cleveland.
        In only three years, he became president of Local 10 and quickly moved to expand his power base, arranging speedy mergers with other locals. But his strategy backfired almost as quickly. After a dispute with members he had brought in, he was ousted.
        In 1952, he went to work as a teamster organizer. Mr. Presser held a series of nonelective teamster jobs before arranging a real estate deal in 1964 for a sports club and restaurant in suburban Cleveland. Despite a $1.1 million loan from the Teamsters Central States Pension Fund, the project failed, costing the pension fund more than $265,000 after Mr. Presser defaulted.
        Mr. Presser's next step was to establish himself as a duly elected power within the teamsters. With a charter granted by his father, he set up a new local, Teamsters Local 507, with headquarters between a freeway and the campus of Cleveland State University. Starting with a dozen paint-company workers in 1966, he expanded Local 507 until it represented workers in dozens of plants and warehouses. Joined Leadership in '76
        Mr. Presser joined the teamsters' leadership in 1976, when his father resigned and he was nominated to succeed him.
        The younger Presser urged the union to stop ignoring allegations of corruption and pushed to go on the offensive with public relations techniques he had tried out in Ohio. Beginning in 1976, the union spent $250,000 a year to sponsor football games on radio. The advertisements Mr. Presser commissioned for broadcast at half-time described gains the union had won for its members.
        Mr. Presser moved into a huge new public relations center in the teamsters' headquarters in Washington in 1977, further expanding the union's campaign to polish its image and strengthening his standing within the national organization. Under his desk was a button that controlled draperies that opened on a panoramic view of the Capitol.
        Back home in Cleveland, where he hung on to his post as secretary-treasurer of Local 507 while serving as head of the International Brotherhood, he had an office lined with plaques and photographs, including a framed picture of President Reagan, something that would probably have been a target of scorn in other labor leaders' offices. Mr. Presser was the only leader of a major union to endorse Ronald Reagan in 1980 and 1984, steps he said he took after polling teamsters.
        At first he played down the corruption issue. Later he broke teamsters precedent and testified voluntarily before a Congressional committee. But the allegations continued. In 1976, the Labor Department filed a civil suit against Mr. Presser and 18 other trustees of the Central States Pension Fund, charging that they had made questionable loans at unaccountably low interest rates. Denied Mafia Control
        Mr. Presser asserted that the teamsters were not controlled by the Mafia. But prosecutors said the Ohio teamster payroll was filled with organized crime figures. In 1977, a Justice Department analysis declared, ''The union is dominated and controlled by organized crime.''
        Mr. Presser was also accused of padding the union's payroll. Mr. Presser's uncle, Allen Friedman, was convicted in Federal District Court in Cleveland of embezzling $165,000 from Mr. Presser's home local for accepting a no-show job. The charges against Mr. Friedman were later dropped. Mr. Presser denied any wrongdoing, maintaining that he was a subject of Federal harassment.
        In 1985, the Justice Department said it was closing a four-year effort to indict Mr. Presser for embezzlement in connection with ''ghost employees'' who did no work for Local 507.
        But it reopened the inquiry amid allegations that an F.B.I. agent in Cleveland had coached Mr. Presser on what to tell investigators. The agent, Robert Friedrick, was charged with lying to his superiors by saying that agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation had approved improper payments made by Local 507. Mr. Presser was then indicted on embezzlement and racketeering charges, and was still under indictment when he died.
        Mr. Presser is survived by his wife, Cynthia; his mother, Faye, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; his son, Gary, of the Cleveland area, and his daughter, Bari Lynn, of Bainbridge Township, Ohio.
      