
       Should New York stiffen its penalties for hate crimes? Should there be a permanent special state prosecutor for such crimes? After more than a year of study, Governor Cuomo's Task Force on Bias-Related Violence has reached sound conclusions: yes to stiffer penalties, no to the special prosecutor.
        Should New York stiffen its penalties for hate crimes? Should there be a permanent special state prosecutor for such crimes? After more than a year of study, Governor Cuomo's Task Force on Bias-Related Violence has reached sound conclusions: yes to stiffer penalties, no to the special prosecutor.
        The task force was named early last year while shock waves reverberated from the Howard Beach incident. Its job was to explore thoroughly the problem of bias-related violence, from education to the role of the judiciary. But the only questions that really mattered concerned tougher penalties for bias crimes and a special prosecutor.
        Governor Cuomo has offered a bill to increase by one degree the severity of any offense determined to be motivated by invidious bias. Thus a Class D felony would become a Class C, with its heavier penalty. The measure has passed the Assembly but is mired in a Senate committee. Its approval requires the Governor's strenuous efforts.
        The special prosecutor question is trickier. Led by State Senator David Paterson, minority group legislators seek a permanent statewide special prosecutor for all bias crimes. Such an office is needed, they say, to reassure minorities that they can obtain justice in New York courts.
        That's a worthy goal, but the method has a downside: it cannot inspire confidence among minorities to know that elected prosecutors need not enforce the law on their behalf. There has been no showing that the state's 62 district attorneys systematically botch or refuse to prosecute bias-motivated cases. If one does, a mechanism for replacing him already exists: The governor can have the attorney general take over prosecution.
        Governor Cuomo has set up a committee to advise him when special prosecutors are warranted on a case-by-case basis. The task force recommends formalizing and publicizing this arrangement, so that citizens know another resort is available. That modest course seems the wiser one, both for victims of bias-related violence and the state.
      