
       Bill Roberts, a founder of political consulting and the manager of Ronald Reagan's entry into politics in 1966, died of heart failure Thursday in California after a long battle with diabetes. He was 63 years old.
        Bill Roberts, a founder of political consulting and the manager of Ronald Reagan's entry into politics in 1966, died of heart failure Thursday in California after a long battle with diabetes. He was 63 years old.
        For three decades Mr. Roberts was an important and sought-after figure among California Republicans, but to Democrats and Republicans across the country he is best known as the forerunner of the political consultants who now dominate much of American political campaigning.
        ''He was one of the original people who put this industry on the map,'' said James M. Dwinell, publisher and executive editor of Campaigns and Elections, a magazine whose very existence demonstrates the growth of the political consulting industry.
        When Mr. Roberts and his longtime partner, Stuart Spencer, both young organizers for the Republican Party in Los Angeles County, opened their consulting firm in 1960, political campaigns were virtually always run by amateurs who took time from other work to help out, said Larry Sabato, professor of political science at the University of Virginia. Today it is a multibillion-dollar industry. 'Valued and Trusted Friend'
        President Reagan issued a statement saying he and his wife, Nancy, were deeply saddened by Mr. Roberts's death.
        ''Bill Roberts was a valued and trusted friend for more than 20 years,'' the President said. ''I could always count on him for solid, honest and reliable advice. Not only were his political instincts among the best in the business, he was a man of great principle who loved his country and was dedicated to the cause of good government.''
        Professor Sabato called Mr. Roberts ''one of the most significant political consultants'' and ''a forerunner of the modern breed.''
        ''It really wasn't a profession before they started plying their trade the way they did,'' he added, referring to Mr. Roberts and Mr. Spencer. ''They converted a fly-by-night, part-time activity into a full-blown profession.'' 'Obligation of Responsiveness'
        Mr. Roberts pioneered techniques that are now commonplace, but at the time were sometimes suspect. In 1970, for example, he defended the use of scientific sampling of public opinion to plan political campaigns. Such polling, he said, ''enables the candidate to talk about the issues which interest the public and not about those on which the public disagrees with him.''
        He added: ''I believe this work can help restore the democratic process. Public officials have an obligation of responsiveness. A well-regulated survey can give a candidate a line on what the public wants, and that's a wonderful thing.''
        Mr. Roberts worked only for Republicans. But within that limit, he ranged widely. ''We've found over the years that the philosophical differences between Republican candidates are not as great as they are made out to be,'' he once said.
        In 1982, three weeks before Election Day, Mr. Roberts was forced to resign as manager of George Deukmejian's campaign for Governor of California after suggesting that the polls were exaggerating how far Mr. Deukmejian was trailing his Democratic opponent, Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles. Some voters would not support Mr. Bradley because he is black, Mr. Roberts said, but would not admit this in a poll.
        Mr. Deukmejian defeated the Mayor by a razor-thin margin that year. Breakthrough Came in 1964
        Mr. Roberts's breakthrough in national politics was in 1964, when the firm of Spencer-Roberts & Associates represented Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York in the California primary campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination. Mr. Rockefeller narrowly lost the primary to Barry Goldwater, then a Senator from Arizona, who went on to win the Republican nomination.
        Two years later the firm went to work for Mr. Reagan, who was planning to run for Governor of California.
        Recognizing that Mr. Reagan had little background in government, Mr. Roberts and Mr. Spencer hired some social psychologists to identify issues - they found 17 - that Mr. Reagan should focus on.
        The issues, Professor Sabato reported, were reduced to statements on index cards with describtions of the problem and a proposed solution. ''Reagan studied them and memorized the answers,'' the professor said.
        Mr. Reagan won the election, and Mr. Roberts and Mr. Spencer also ran his re-election campaign in 1970. 'The Only Thing I Knew'
        Mr. Roberts and Mr. Spencer split their partnership in 1974, and Mr. Roberts briefly left the campaign business. But by 1976 they were back together, working for President Ford's campaign in Florida.
        ''I decided, what the hell, this was the only thing I knew how to make a living at,'' Mr. Roberts said in explaining his return.
        Mr. Roberts, who lived in Santa Monica, had been in declining health, losing both legs and his eyesight to diabetes. He never married. He is survived by two sisters, Mary King and Jane Thimmesch, both of Reno, Nev.
        Services will be held Tuesday morning at St. Monica's Roman Catholic Church in Santa Monica.
      