
       Raymond W. Goldsmith, an economist who for several decades was a leading authority on national income and wealth, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Whitney Center, a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. He was 83 years old and had lived for many years in New Haven.
        Raymond W. Goldsmith, an economist who for several decades was a leading authority on national income and wealth, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Whitney Center, a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. He was 83 years old and had lived for many years in New Haven.
        Dr. Goldsmith was regarded as a pioneer in developing ways to measure wealth and in devising balance sheets that record the flow of funds among segments of the economy. He served for many years with Government agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, from its early days in the 1930's, and the War Production Board in World War II.
        He was also a longtime member of the senior research staff of the National Bureau of Economic Research and was a professor of economics at Yale University from 1960 until 1974.
        ''Raymond Goldsmith was one of the major scholars of his period in the examination of national wealth,'' Richard Ruggles, retired chairman of the economics department at Yale, recalled yesterday. ''He virtually created the field of wealth measurement, starting in the early 30's and continuing right up to the 70's. He was very instrumental in building up statistics on the American economy that the Federal Reserve Board and other agencies use to track such things as the flow of funds among financial institutions.'' Consultant to Governments
        Professor Ruggles, who brought Dr. Goldsmith to Yale, noted that the economist had been a consultant to numerous foreign governments, including those of many developing countries, among them India and Brazil. He was called on to advise several international commissions and undertook several missions abroad for United States agencies.
        Robert Nathan, a consumer economist, praised Dr. Goldsmith yesterday as ''one of the most precise and scientific economists of recent times,'' adding that ''unlike a lot of policy-oriented people, he never picked a bunch of numbers and ran with them; he was very careful to utilize data properly.''
        And Solomon Fabricant, retired director of research at the National Bureau, called Dr. Goldsmith ''perhaps the major figure in designing the national accounts, including gross national product, wealth estimates, savings trends and export-import balances.''
        Chief among Dr. Goldsmith's published works was the three-volume ''A Study of Savings in the United States,'' completed in 1955, which isolated and measured the elementary relationships among personal, corporate and government saving over 50 years. He wrote voluminously on the economy from 1933, the year before he joined the S.E.C., when he produced ''The Changing Structure of American Banking,'' until 1985, when his last book, ''Comparative National Balance Sheets: A Study of 20 Countries, 1688-1978,'' was published.
        Raymond William Goldschmidt - he later Anglicized his name - was born Dec. 23, 1904, in Brussels. He received his doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1927 and moved to the United States in 1934.
        After five years at the S.E.C., he became chief of its research section and assistant director of the trading and exchange division in 1939. From 1942 to 1946 he served on the staff of the War Production Board, directing its planning division the last two years. Missions for State Department
        In 1945 he went to Paris on the staff of the American delegation to the conference on war reparations, and in the next three years he undertook various missions for the State Department, including serving as adviser to the German Currency Reform Commission and to the American delegation at the major Allied conference on the Austrian peace treaty.
        Dr. Goldsmith was chairman or a member of several key committees studying economic problems for the Federal Reserve Board and other national and international government agencies.
        In 1963 and 1964 Dr. Goldsmith, on leave from Yale, was vice president of the newly founded Development Center of the Office for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, and in this country he served later on the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers.
        Dr. Goldsmith was married in 1939 to the former Selma E. Fine, who was also an economist. She died in 1962. He is survived by a brother, Lucien Goldschmidt of Manhattan; a daughter, Jane, of San Francisco; two sons, Donald, of Berkeley, Calif., and Paul, of Amherst, Mass., and a granddaughter.
        A funeral service will be held tomorrow at 11:30 A.M. at the Hawley Lincoln Funeral Home at 493 Whitney Avenue in New Haven.
      