
       Percy Qoboza, an award-winning black journalist who was editor of several leading anti-apartheid publications, died today. He was 50 years old.
        Percy Qoboza, an award-winning black journalist who was editor of several leading anti-apartheid publications, died today. He was 50 years old.
        Mr. Qoboza, whose journalism career spanned three decades, suffered a heart attack on Dec. 25 and remained in serious condition until his death at Rand Clinic in Johannesburg.
        Since 1985, he had been editor of City Press, a twice-weekly publication aimed at black readers. Previously, he edited two black publications that were closed by the Government.
        Mr. Qoboza - the name is pronounced keh-BOH-zuh - was born Jan. 17, 1938, in a slum area that is now a white suburb of Johannesburg. He earned a theology degree from a university in Lesotho.
        After starting in journalism in 1963 at The World, Mr. Qoboza rose to become editor before the Government closed the paper in 1977. He then worked as editor of The Post, the country's leading black publication until it was closed in 1980. Neiman Fellow at Harvard
        He was a Nieman fellow at Harvard University in 1975-76 and was editor in residence at The Washington Star, which is now defunct, in 1980-81.
        Mr. Qoboza was detained in 1977 and held for more than five months before being released without charge. Earlier, he had been detained under the since-repealed pass laws, which required blacks to carry identity documents when they were in white areas.
        Writing about the experience, he said: ''For every man you throw in jail for a pass offense, you release later a potential enemy of the state. Nobody who has not gone through the humiliating experience of being locked up like a common criminal can understand this. Take it from me, it's shocking.'' He was a consistently outspoken critic of apartheid, the policy of separating the 26 million blacks from the 5 million whites, who control politics and the economy.
        In a 1981 article aimed at white readers, he wrote: ''If you sometimes get mad at me, because the sentiments I express keep you awake at night, then I am glad. I do not see why I should bear the brunt of insomnia worrying about what will happen tomorrow. If many of us can keep awake at night, then maybe we will do the sensible thing - talk together about our joint future.'' Cited Life in U.S. When Mr. Qoboza returned from his nine months as a Nieman fellow at Harvard, he said living in a multiracial society had opened his eyes.
        ''When I went down to Harvard Square for a meal I was tempted to look in the window of a place, to see if there were any blacks inside, before going in,'' he said. ''The experience forced me to look at myself, and I was surprised to find that I was an Uncle Tom.''
        On his return to South Africa, he said, ''I found myself completely maladjusted, quite unable to accept the things that seemed quite normal before.''
        He received honorary doctorates from Tufts University and Amherst College in the United States and was awarded the Golden Pen of Freedom from the International Federation of Newspaper Proprietors.
        ''Percy's death is a great loss to journalism in South Africa,'' said Keith Lister, publisher of City Press. ''Percy was both a leading black political voice and an extremely successful editor.''
        Mr. Qoboza is survived by his wife, Ann, a son and four daughters.
      