
       Lester V. Chandler, an economist, author and adviser to the Federal Government during World War II, died of leukemia Saturday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Lester V. Chandler, an economist, author and adviser to the Federal Government during World War II, died of leukemia Saturday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton.
        A monetary expert, Mr. Chandler was associated with the rubber and chemical branches of the Office of Price Administration during World War II, first as price executive and then as economic adviser.
        After the war, Mr. Chandler conducted research for the Congressional Subcommittee on Monetary and Fiscal Policy of the Joint Economic Committee. In 1953 he became public director and deputy chairman of the board of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
        A native of Geuda Springs, Kan., Mr. Chandler received his bachelor of arts from the University of Missouri and his doctorate in economics from Yale.
        He taught at Dartmouth and Amherst Colleges before joining the Princeton University faculty in 1950 as its first Gordon S. Rentschler Memorial Professor of Economics. Twice chairman of the department of economics at Princeton, he also served in 1963 and 1964 as acting director of Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.
        His works include ''The Economics of Money and Banking,'' originally published in 1948 and co-authored in 1986 with Stephen M. Goldfeld.
        Mr. Chandler and his wife, the late Elizabeth R. Chandler, who died June 22, were active in the Princeton Association for Human Rights, the Princeton Committee for the NAACP and nearby integrated housing projects.
        He is survived by a son, John W., of Corralitos, Calif.; a daughter, Jean E. Chandler of Oakton, Va.,; a brother, Donald Chandler, of Charlotte, N.C.; two sisters, Etta C. Myers, of Palo Alto, Calif., and Daisy C. Webb, of Los Gatos, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      