
       Harold P. Goodbody, who headed Wall Street's fifth-largest stock brokerage firm when it collapsed in a paper-work morass in 1970, died of brain cancer Sunday at the Sweetbrook Nursing Home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 82 years old and for most of his career was a resident of Florham Park, N.J.
        Harold P. Goodbody, who headed Wall Street's fifth-largest stock brokerage firm when it collapsed in a paper-work morass in 1970, died of brain cancer Sunday at the Sweetbrook Nursing Home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 82 years old and for most of his career was a resident of Florham Park, N.J.
        He was the senior partner of Goodbody & Company, a firm founded by his grandfather in the 1880's, when a crunch of paper work caught up with several Wall Street brokerage concerns nearly two decades ago. Unable to keep up with trades on the New York Stock Exchange and other exchanges, Goodbody sustained heavy losses.
        In December 1970, a rescue was arranged in which Goodbody was taken over by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, saving the firm's customers from losses and, equally important for Wall Street powers, preventing what might have become a snowballing loss of confidence among investors. Wiped Out in Collapse
        Mr. Goodbody, however, was wiped out in the collapse. The following year, at the age of 66, he started over, forming the Dalgood Institutional Service Corporation, which brought together borrowers and lenders of stocks - a rapidly growing business at the time.
        After an investigation into the Goodbody collapse that took seveal years, the New York Stock Exchange found in 1976 that Mr. Goodbody had filed false financial reports and had failed properly to supervise the firm's operations.
        He was not fined but was barred from re-entering the stock brokerage business without prior approval. Mr. Goodbody, who had retired to Williamstown that year, said he regarded the exchange's ruling as ''friendly.'' Graduated From Williams
        Mr. Goodbody, a native of Toledo, Ohio, was a 1927 graduate of Williams College. He went immediately into the family business on Wall Street and rose to become managing partner as the firm, under his direction, advanced to the top five among brokerage firms. He served as president of the Association of Stock Exchange Firms in 1948 and 1949.
        In 1969, a year before Goodbody & Company's downfall, he began turning over the reins to a younger management team, relinquishing his role as chief executive officer and becoming senior partner and chairman of the executive committee.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Blair; a daughter, Sarah Norris of Summit, N.J.; three sons, James, of Cumberland Foreside, Me., Harold, of Pennington, N.J., and William, of Pleasantville, N.Y.; four brothers, Lyman and Garrett, both of Perrysburg, Ohio, Thomas Jr., of Honolulu, and Carl, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Luette G. Semmes of Potomac, Md., and 10 grandchildren.
      