
       John Cardinal Dearden, a liberal voice in his church who was the spiritual leader of 1.2 million Roman Catholics in metropolitan Detroit for more then 20 years, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at Providence Hospital in suburban Southfield, Mich. He was 80 years old.
        John Cardinal Dearden, a liberal voice in his church who was the spiritual leader of 1.2 million Roman Catholics in metropolitan Detroit for more then 20 years, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at Providence Hospital in suburban Southfield, Mich. He was 80 years old.
        Cardinal Dearden served as Archbishop of Detroit from December 1958 until failing health prompted his retirement in 1980, three years after a heart attack. He continued to head the archdiocese as apostolic administrator until 1981, when Bishop Edmund Szoka, who has recently been elevated to cardinal, succeeded him.
        Archbishop Dearden was deeply involved in the work of the Second Vatican Council (1962-65) and helped shape some key doctrinal documents. Vatican II, called by Pope John XXIII to reform the liturgy, was meant to bring the church hierarchy and a polyglot laity closer together. Pope John died in 1963, but his successor, Paul VI, kept the legacy alive. Siding With Progressives
        In the spirited debate between conservative and progressive factions, Archbishop Dearden was a central figure, siding with the progressives.
        Earlier, he was an active participant in his community, backing equal employment opportunities and encouraging Catholic lay people to improve Detroit's racial climate.
        In 1966 Archbishop Deardon was elected president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, serving until 1971, when he was succeeded by John Cardinal Krol of Philadelphia, a leading conservative in the American church.
        After Vatican II, he drew national attention with his innovative approach to the new liturgy and teachings. Led Delegation to World Synod
        For instance, after Paul VI restored the lay deaconate in 1967, on the recommendation of Vatican II, Cardinal Dearden - he was elevated to Cardinal in 1969 - was quick to seize the opportunity to augment a shrinking regular clergy. In 1971 he ordained 13 married laymen as deacons, filling a church office that had been in disuse more than 1,000 years. The deacons were among the first Americans to complete the training to perform most priestly functions, except to offer Mass, hear confessions and give last rites.
        In 1971 he led the American delegation to the third Synod of Bishops, called to advise Pope Paul VI on the issue of social justice and the problem that led to the revival of the deaconate: the dearth of seminarians and ordained priests. The synod had been established after Vatican II to provide the Pope with continuing counsel from the bishops on important issues facing the church.
        In the mid-1970's, at the time of the American Bicentennial, he headed a church committee that undertook a two-year study of public issues. Hearings and debates involved 1,350 delegates chosen from 150 dioceses by their bishops. They adopted a five-year, 182-point ''Call for Action'' agenda at a 1976 conference in Detroit and submitted it to the Conference of Bishops.
        Many of the 182 proposals, on social justice and the like, were approved by the bishops. Others, which went against basic church tenets on divorce, contraception and the ordination of women, were discarded.
        ''Right now I could not vote for women in the priesthood,'' Cardinal Dearden said. ''There are too many theological objections.'' Speculation of Papal Snub
        While some liberal Catholics thought the Cardinal was not moving fast enough toward reform, conservatives considered him too radical.
        In 1979, when the United Nations Secretary General, Kurt Waldheim, invited Pope John Paul II to address the General Assembly, his schedule included five of the eight American cities normally with a resident cardinal. Detroit was not among them.
        Rumor in Rome had it that the Pope snubbed Cardinal Dearden in favor of John Cardinal Cody of Chicago, whose conservatism the Pope found more to his liking. The Vatican refused to comment on such speculation.
        John Francis Dearden was born Oct. 15, 1907, in Valley Fall, R.I., and graduated in 1928 from St. Mary Seminary in Cleveland, where he became rector and a professor of philosophy in the 1940's. He was ordained in 1932 and was Bishop of Pittsburgh from 1950 to 1958, when he took over the Detroit Archdiocese.
        In Detroit, he became known as a hard-working administrator who made it his habit to drop in at parishes unannounced to say Mass and meet worshipers. Closing of Schools
        One of the low points of his tenure came in 1970 when Michigan voters amended the state constituion to bar all public aid to nonpublic schools. Cardinal Dearden ordered all his parishes to study their finances and the schools that drained them because of declining enrollments.
        The scrutiny forced the closing in 1971 of 56 of the 269 schools. The cuts raised an outcry that echoed for years, particularly because the cardinal was the head of the bishops' conference when he ordered them.
        At the time of his death, the Cardinal remained a member of the Roman Curia's Congregation for the Sacraments.
        He is survived by two brothers, Edward and Gregory, both of Cleveland.
        A Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated by Cardinal Szoka at noon Friday at the Cathedral of the Most Blessed Sacrament, followed by internment at Holy Sepulcher Cemetery.
      