
       William H. Phelps Jr., an ornithologist, explorer and former trustee of the American Museum of Natural History, died of circulatory problems last Saturday at his home in Caracas, Venezuela. He was 85 years old.
        William H. Phelps Jr., an ornithologist, explorer and former trustee of the American Museum of Natural History, died of circulatory problems last Saturday at his home in Caracas, Venezuela. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Phelps, an American-educated businessman who was born in Venezuela and was a lifelong resident there, conducted several expeditions to unexplored parts of the country. Pico Phelps, the highest point in Venezuela, is named in his honor.
        Together with his father and his wife, Kathleen Deery de Phelps, he built the foremost collection of birds in Latin America, which consists of 100,000 tropical bird specimens. He was the author of more than 75 scientific publications and described more than 150 previously undocumented forms of bird life.
        An ardent conservationist, Mr. Phelps was Venezuela's delegate to the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment in 1972 and served for many years as president of the Pan American section of the International Council for Bird Preservation. Founded Radio Caracas
        In his business career, he was the founder of Radio Caracas in 1930 and its television counterpart in 1953. Until his death, he was vice president of the family business, Sindicato Phelps.
        He was a 1922 graduate of Lawrenceville and earned a bachelor of science degree from Princeton University in 1926. He received many international awards, including the David Livingston Medal of the American Geographical Society and the Explorer's Medal of the Explorers Club of New York. He was also active with the New York Zoological Society and the New York Botanical Garden and was an elected member of the American Academy of Physical Sciences, Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
        Mr. Phelps is survived by his wife, whom he married in 1941, and by two stepsons, Peter and Toby Bottome, both of Caracas.
      