
       C. Ray Smith, a writer and critic in the field of architecture, died of a heart attack Thursday in the emergency room of Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan and Krumsville, Pa.
        C. Ray Smith, a writer and critic in the field of architecture, died of a heart attack Thursday in the emergency room of Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan and Krumsville, Pa.
        Mr. Smith taught various aspects of design at Parsons Institute and the Fashion Institute of Technology. He also lectured at Pratt Institute, the Architectural League of New York, the New York School of Interior Design and the Institute for Architecture and Urban Studies.
        He was editor of Oculus, the newsletter of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, of which he was also a fellow. He was former editor of Theater Crafts magazine and Theater Craft Books and of Interiors magazine. Earlier, he was senior editor and features editor of Progressive Architecture magazine.
        Mr. Smith was president of the United States Institute for Theater Technology, a national nonprofit group that promotes research and knowledge of the performing arts, from 1968 to 1971. He lectured on new attitudes in design from 1971 to 1973 at various institutions including Yale, Cornell and Tulane Universities, the Winterthur Museum and the Art Institute of Chicago. From 1972 to 1975, he was managing director of the Aston Magna Foundation for Music. Author of Several Books
        ''Theater, music and architecture were the three compelling passions of his life, apart from family and friends,'' Leslie Armstrong said yesterday. Ms. Armstrong, an architect, married Mr. Smith in 1971. The couple later divorced but remained friends.
        He was the author and editor of a number of books and other publications, most recently a book entitled ''Interior Design in 20th-Century 1987). He also wrote ''Interior Design in the Twentieth Century,'' with Allen Cate (Harper & Row; 1986), ''The Wood Chair in America,'' with Marian Page (Brickel Associaties; 1982) and ''Supermannerism, New Attitudes in Post-Modern Architecture'' (E. P. Dutton; 1977).
        Mr. Smith was born in Birmingham, Ala., and moved to the Bronx with his mother when he was 5 years old. He was a graduate of Kenyon College and attended the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London for a year after graduation. He earned a master's degree at Yale University.
        He is survived by a son, S. Scott, and a stepdaughter, Vanessa Layle Cortesi, both of Manhattan.
      