
       Jerome B. Zerbe, a chronicler and photographer of international society, died Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a long illness. He was 85 years old.
        Jerome B. Zerbe, a chronicler and photographer of international society, died Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a long illness. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Zerbe, who was a native of Euclid, Ohio, and a 1928 graduate of Yale, was art editor of Parade magazine in Cleveland from 1931 to 1933. That time also saw the start of his many years as a photographer for Town & Country magazine.
        He was one of those who in the 1930's pioneered the type of photography adopted decades later by the paparazzi: candid shots of socialites and entertainers out-on-the-town and eager to be seen. His pictures appeared in many national magazines and in books.
        Mr, Zerbe, who was based in Manhattan since the early 1930's, helped turn El Morocco into one of the world's best-known nightclubs. His photography became one of the elements on which cafe society thrived. Hearst Papers Were His Outlet
        He pursued his willing subjects from New Orleans to Palm Beach to Deauville and Paris, London, Cuernavaca and scores of fashionable places in between. Though one the country's premier society photographers, he himself never was a frenetic paparazzo and never tried to catch a celebrity at a momentary lapse into the grotesque or unflattering.
        In the mid-1940's the Hearst papers became one of his outlets. He was feature writer for the Sunday Mirror magazine until 1958 and wrote a column for The New York Journal-American. From 1949 to 1974, when his health began to fail, he was society editor of Town & Country.
        Mr. Zerbe, whose first camera was a Brownie, studied art in Paris and exhibited his drawings in Cleveland before making his mark as a photographer. He was also the author of a number of books, including ''El Morocco Family Album'' (1937); ''The Art of Social Climbing'' (1965), and ''The Pavillions of Europe'' (1976).
        Brendan Gill wrote the text for a chronological sampler of Mr. Zerbe's art. Published in 1973 as ''Happy Times,'' their effort captured the famous - Winston Churchill to Marilyn Monroe - and their habitats.
        The book also showed the other side of Mr. Zerbe. In World War II, he donned a Navy uniform and, as a chief photographer's mate, recorded the defeat of Japan. He was decorated with a Bronze Star and was the personal photographer of Adm. Chester W. Nimitz for a year.
        Mr. Zerbe, who never married, is survived by a sister, Margaret Zerbe Larsen of Nantucket, Mass., and Vero Beach, Calif.
      