
       Jules-Francois Crahay, a Belgian designer who began working as a couturier in Paris in the early 1950's, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Monte Carlo. He was 70 years old.  Mr. Crahay retired in 1984 from the House of Lanvin, where he had worked for 20 years. Before that, he worked for Nina Ricci from 1952 to 1963.
        Jules-Francois Crahay, a Belgian designer who began working as a couturier in Paris in the early 1950's, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Monte Carlo. He was 70 years old.  Mr. Crahay retired in 1984 from the House of Lanvin, where he had worked for 20 years. Before that, he worked for Nina Ricci from 1952 to 1963.
        His first big success was at Ricci in 1959, when he presented a curvy, feminine collection, including cocktail dresses with deep decolletages as well as rounded suits, at a time when the more austere clothes of Balenciaga and Givenchy were in the limelight. Later, he joined the House of Lanvin and became known for his folkloric styles.
        The designs were not necessarily inspired by visits to any particular country. Clothes for People in Castles
        ''They come from my imagination,'' he explained after a collection in 1977 for Lanvin that marked the 50th anniversary of the company's perfume, Arpege. Russian, Tibetan and North African themes were all intermingled in the clothes.
        When he was not pursuing ethnic themes, he did grand clothes for people who lived in castles. Floor-length mantles with hoods lined with fur, long pleated trousers and shawls the size of tablecloths were among his designs.
        ''I have no use for afternoon clothes,'' he once remarked. ''Fashion leaps from the little morning suit to the evening gown.''
        A quiet, unassuming man who wore casual clothes himself, he designed for women in the grand couture tradition, where lavishness of fabrics and design was practically unlimited. Born in Liege
        Mr. Crahay was born on May 21, 1917, in Liege, Belgium, where his mother, Francoise Crahay, ran a couture house that catered to Belgian society.
        He began working as a sketcher there when he was 13 years old. In 1934, he studied art and fashion in Paris before rejoining his mother's couture house in 1936.
        During World War II, he was captured and imprisoned in Germany. In 1951, he opened his own couture house in Paris. Although the house was not successful, he attracted the attention of Nina Ricci, who offered him a job as one of a group of designers at her house.
        After seven years, he was given the title of chief designer. He then attracted notice with his feminine designs.
        After his retirement, he lived in Monte Carlo and in St. Raphael, a village on the French Riviera. Services will be held tomorrow morning in Bagnols-en-Foret, near St.-Raphael.
      