
       Percy Foreman, the flamboyant lawyer who defended James Earl Ray in the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died yesterday at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 86 years old.
        Percy Foreman, the flamboyant lawyer who defended James Earl Ray in the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died yesterday at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 86 years old.
        A hospital spokeswoman, Brenda Koch, said Mr. Foreman died of cardiac arrest. She said he had been a patient in the hospital for some time, but, citing what she said was a request from the family, she refused to say when he had been admitted.
        ''There is no better trial lawyer in the U.S. than me,'' Mr. Foreman once asserted.
        As evidence, he cited 1,500 death penalty cases he had handled. Fewer than half ever went to trial, and of those that did, he lost only 53. In the rest, his clients were either never indicted or pleaded guilty to lesser offenses. 'Deserved to Die'
        Only one of his clients, a restaurateur named Steve Mitchell. who was convicted of shooting his wife, was executed. Mr. Foreman, a steadfast opponent of capital punishment, said later that Mr. Mitchell ''deserved to die.''
        Mr. Foreman became James Earl Ray's lawyer 36 hours before he was scheduled to go on trial for the killing of the civil rights leader. Mr. Ray had dismissed his attorney Arthur J. Hanes after conferring with Mr. Foreman for several hours. Mr. Foreman eventually persuaded Mr. Ray to plead guilty to the 1968 slaying in exchange for a 99-year sentence.
        Mr. Ray, who maintained that his only role in the assassination was to buy the murder weapon and give it to a man named ''Raoul,'' later said Mr. Foreman had pressured him into pleading guilty by saying he was 99 percent certain Mr. Ray would go to the electric chair if he faced a jury in Tennessee.
        Until he took the Ray case, Mr. Foreman was most famous for a case he did not handle at all. Jack Ruby, shortly after he shot Lee Harvey Oswald, asked that Mr. Foreman represent him. But Mr. Ruby's family objected to what it considered Mr. Foreman's excessive fee. ''Ruby's family was quoted a figure which happened to be four times higher than the fee I had actually asked,'' Mr. Foreman said later, ''and they turned it down. I don't know how something like that happened, but it did.'' Appeals for Help
        As one of the nation's best known criminal lawyers, he was constantly bombarded with appeals for help and built his practice on an unshakable loyalty to clients. ''They may not always be right, but they are never wrong,'' he once said.
        It was Mr. Foreman, however, who invariably became the center of attention. In court, he was a figure to ridicule, eschewing conservative pinstripes for attention-getting black-and-white plaid sports jackets and bow ties. As he sat at the defense table, wisps of his iron-gray hair would tumble over his forehead, and as he shuffled papers, he sometimes seemed disorganized. But opponents soon learned that he was not.
        Mr. Foreman combined a shrewd legal mind and a mastery of tactics, vitriol and unabashed showmanship. Defending a woman who had killed her husband after he flogged her with a whip, Mr. Foreman picked up the whip from the evidence table and cracked it repeatedly during closing arguments. Son of a Sheriff
        He was a Baptist deacon, but a colleague once said that in addressing juries Mr. Foreman was as likely to quote Playboy magazine as the Bible. Some opponents questioned his tactics and his concept of justice. ''The only justice he knows,'' one former adversary said in 1964, ''is get 'em off and get their money.''
        Mr. Foreman was born June 21, 1902, the son of a sheriff who lived in a log cabin near the east Texas town of Cold Springs. His first job, at age 8, was as a shoeshine boy in nearby Livingston.
        He quit school when he was 15, because, he said, ''I knew everything they could teach me.'' He took correspondence courses and, with $6,000 cash in his pocket and his mother's advice that 'law would be my best bet,'' entered the University of Texas Law School. Dancers and Bell Ringers
        Mr. Foreman spent much of his time in law school on the Chautauqua circuit, where he shared platforms in small towns with Cossack dancers and Swiss bell ringers and gave talks on ''The High Mission of Women in the 20th Century'' and ''How to Get the Most Out of Life.''
        It was good training for court. ''If you didn't talk for two and a half hours, people thought they were cheated,'' Mr. Foreman said.  He served briefly as an assistant county prosecutor before going into private practice. For years he kept the $5 bill he received as the fee for his first legal case, drawing up a lease on a five-acre orchard. His wife, Marguerite, died in 1979. Survivors include a son, William, of Galveston; a daughter, Marguerite, of Huntsville; a brother, Keith, of Austin, and two sisters.
        Services were tentatively set for Mondat at Settegast-Kopf Funeral Home, said Mike DeGeurin, one of Mr. Foreman's partners.
      