
       Richard E. Merriam, a former Chicago alderman who lost to Richard J. Daley in a 1955 mayoral race and then became an adviser to three Presidents, died Thursday of a heart attack at his Chicago home. He was 69 years old.
        Richard E. Merriam, a former Chicago alderman who lost to Richard J. Daley in a 1955 mayoral race and then became an adviser to three Presidents, died Thursday of a heart attack at his Chicago home. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Merriam followed in the footsteps of his father, William E. Merriam, a local alderman and 1911 mayoral candidate who bitterly opposed machine politics. The younger Mr. Merriam switched to the Republican Party in 1947 and was elected alderman of the Fifth Ward.
        In 1954 he tweaked City Hall by playing host on a local television show, ''Spotlight on Chicago,'' that broadcast stories about local corruption, including tape-recorded accounts of police officers receiving payoffs from gamblers.
        In 1955 Mr. Merriam, then 36, ran for Mayor against Mr. Daley, who had defeated the Democratic incumbent, Martin H. Kennelly, in the primary. Mr. Daley defeated Mr. Merriam by more than 125,000 votes and remained in office until his death in 1976. Official in Budget Bureau
        After Mayor Daley took office, Mr. Merriam continued to lash out at the political patronage system. In 1957 he was a co-author of ''Going Into Politics: A Guide for Citizens,'' which expressed his political philosophy.
        He also wrote ''Dark December,'' a popular account of his involvement in the Battle of the Bulge in World War II.
        Mr. Merriam's interest in politics attracted the attention of President Eisenhower, who appointed him Assistant Director of the Bureau of the Budget in 1958. Mr. Merriam later served under Presidents Nixon and Ford as chairman of the President's Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Affairs.
        Mr. Merriam was executive vice president for the Urban Investment and Development Company from 1971 to 1976, when he became partner in Alexander Proudfoot & Company, a consulting concern.
        He is survived by his wife, Marguerite, two daughters and a son.
        Correction:  August 29, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition
      