
       TORONTO, Aug. 29 -
        TORONTO, Aug. 29 -
        Jean Marchand, who made his early career as a Quebec labor leader and later played a pivotal role in the election of Pierre Elliott Trudeau as Canada's Prime Minister, died Sunday at his summer home outside Quebec City. He was 69 years old.
        The cause of death was not immediately known, but the Quebec Provincial Police said he died of natural causes.
        Like Mr. Trudeau, Mr. Marchand was an influential member of the group of educated young French Canadians in the 1950's and 60's who helped make the ''Quiet Revolution'' in Quebec, the movement that broke the tight hold of the arch-conservative Union Nationale on the province's life. Later, when the reform movement split over the issue of independence for Quebec, Mr. Marchand and Mr. Trudeau were prominent among those who argued that the province should remain part of Canada. Pushed Trudeau Into Politics
        In 1965, the federal Liberal Party, seeking to strengthen its appeal in Quebec, invited Mr. Marchand to run for Parliament. But the labor leader was reluctant to go to Ottawa alone. Convinced that a strong voice for French Canada required a nucleus of reform-minded Quebecers in the capital, he persuaded Mr. Trudeau, then a law professor at the University of Montreal, and Gerard Pelletier, a prominent newspaper editor, to run for election with him.
        When Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson announced his retirement two years later, Mr. Marchand was sought as a possible successor. But he pushed Mr. Trudeau forward instead. After winning a close-fought leadership contest with several English-Canadian politicians, Mr. Trudeau became Prime Minister and held the post for nearly 16 years. For the first eight of them, until he resigned from the Cabinet, Mr. Marchand was one of Mr. Trudeau's closest advisers.
        The posts held by the fiery tempered politician included the ministries responsible for immigration, labor, regional development, transport and environment. In 1976, he resigned to protest the Government's refusal to grant French Canadian pilots the right to communicate with air traffic controllers in French. He later ran unsuccessfully against the separatist Parti Quebecois for a seat in the Quebec Legislature before Mr. Trudeau appointed him to the federal Senate. 'A Great Federalist'
        His role in promoting bilingualism and opposing separatism in Quebec were emphasized in the tributes paid by prominent Canadians. ''With the death of Jean Marchand, Quebec and Canada lose one of their champions,'' Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said. The Premier of Quebec, Robert Bourassa, struck a similar note. ''We will remember him as a great Quebecer and a great federalist,'' Mr. Bourassa said.
        Mr. Marchand had a reputation for outspokenness. He once denounced a group of Quebec separatists who provoked a fistfight at a political meeting. ''Ladies and gentlemen, you see here fascism at work,'' he said. ''If these separatist hoodlums ever get into power, they will rule the country with an iron fist.''
        Mr. Marchand, the youngest of six children, was born Dec. 20, 1918, at Champlain, a village on the St. Lawrence River near Montreal. He worked his way through Laval University as a night-shift stenographer and rose through union ranks to become president of the Confederation of National Trade Unions, Quebec's largest labor organization. He married Georgette Guertin of Quebec City in 1942, and they had one child, Marie-Eve; both survive him.
      