
       Benjamin C. Willis, who as Superintendent of Schools in Chicago in the 1960's was accused of perpetuating segregation by refusing to move black children into white schools, died at his home in Plantation, Fla., on Saturday, his family said yesterday. He was 86 years old.
        Benjamin C. Willis, who as Superintendent of Schools in Chicago in the 1960's was accused of perpetuating segregation by refusing to move black children into white schools, died at his home in Plantation, Fla., on Saturday, his family said yesterday. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Willis presided over Chicago's schools in the era of court-ordered desegregation after the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education in 1954 and passage of the Civil Rights Act 10 years later. His critics charged that he purposely kept black children at overcrowded schools in the inner city, while spaces went begging at schools in white neighborhoods.
        To many civil rights leaders, who led protests against Mr. Willis from 1963 to 1965, his 13-year tenure as superintendent was symbolized by the 625 mobile classrooms he established to alleviate overcrowding at mostly black schools on Chicago's South Side. The critics called the mobile classrooms ''Willis Wagons.''
        Benjamin Coppage Willis was born on Dec. 23, 1901, in Baltimore. He received his doctorate from Columbia University and, after starting as principal of a four-room schoolhouse in Henderson, Md., eventually became superintendent of the school systems in Hagerstown, Md., Yonkers and Buffalo. Drew Praise at First
        He was appointed to the Chicago post in 1953. Forceful and confident, described in one new account as confronting ''each hour as another landing on Guadalcanal,'' Mr. Willis drew praise in the 1950's for cutting class size, streamlining construction of new school buildings, and working out higher salaries for teachers.
        But in 1963, protests broke out when civil rights leaders and black students accused Mr. Willis's administration of fostering segregation in the schools. Protesters burned mobile classrooms, boycotted classes, went on hunger strikes and picketed Mr. Willis's home. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led some of the protests against Mr. Willis. At the 1963 march on Washington, 3,000 Chicagoans strode down Pennsylvania Avenue, chanting ''Down with Willis.''
        For three stormy years rife with similar upheavals, Mr. Willis kept his post, finally leaving in 1966, four months before his term was to end.
        After leaving Chicago, Mr. Willis worked for two years as schools superintendent in Broward County, Fla.. He retired in 1972.
        Mr. Willis is survived by his wife, Rachel, of Plantation; his daughter, Rachel Bischoff, of Glencoe, Ill.; two brothers, C. Milton of Jupiter, Fla., and Orville, of Cambridge, Md.; three grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      