
       Paul C. Reardon, a former Associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, who directed a study that advocated restrictions on the release and publication of information about people accused of crimes, died of heart failure Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 78 years old.
        Paul C. Reardon, a former Associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, who directed a study that advocated restrictions on the release and publication of information about people accused of crimes, died of heart failure Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 78 years old.
        Former Justice Reardon, a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School and a former Harvard overseer, was named Chief Justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court in 1955 and was appointed to the state's highest court by Gov. John A. Volpe in 1962.
        Three years later, Justice Reardon was named chairman of the American Bar Association's Advisory Committee on Fair Trial and Free Press , which was established to recommend guidelines for regulating news coverage of criminal trials. The 10-member committee, a byproduct of the Warren Commission report on the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, undertook a study of how courtroom proceedings were handled by news organizations.
        The committee's 20-month investigation of criminal trials found that much of the prejudicial information originated from lawyers and police officers involved in criminal cases. Curbs on Journalists Urged
        A report on the investigation, issued in October 1966, urged lawyers and police officials to restrict comments on pending criminal cases. The Reardon report also recommended that judges punish journalists, among others, who disseminate prejudicial statements in a trial.
        The recommendation, which was opposed by the American Society of Newspaper Editors on the ground that it infringed on the First Amdendment's guarantee of free speech and a free press, was adopted by the bar association's House of Delegates in February 1968, and by the Judicial Conference of the United States later that year.
        In his 14-year tenure on the state's Supreme Judicial Court Justice Reardon wrote 610 opinions, including one in 1969 that postponed an inquest into the death of Mary Jo Kopechne and the conduct of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who was driving the car in which she drowned. Justice Reardon also issued a 1971 opinion that upheld no-fault automobile insurance. He retired in 1976.
        The former justice, who lived in Hingham, Mass., and had a summer home in Plymouth, Mass., is survived by his wife, Ann; two daughters, Martha Reardon of Hingham and Jane Labys of Morgantown, W.Va.; two sons, David, of Hancock, N.H., and Thomas, of Newton, Mass.; a brother, George, and a sister, Mary A. Reardon, both of Hingham, and five grandchildren.
      