
       Dan J. Bradley, a former president of the Legal Services Corporation who later became a leading advocate for gay rights, died of AIDS today at Doctors Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., He was 47 years old and lived in Miami.
        Dan J. Bradley, a former president of the Legal Services Corporation who later became a leading advocate for gay rights, died of AIDS today at Doctors Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., He was 47 years old and lived in Miami.
        Mr. Bradley began his government career in 1967 as a lawyer in the legal services program in Florida. In 1977 he was appointed Racing Commissioner in Florida under Gov. Reubin Askew.
        President Carter named Mr. Bradley in June 1979 to the top job at Legal Services, the independent, federally sponsored agency that finances local legal aid offices to provide noncriminal legal representation for the poor.
        He was widely credited with thwarting the Reagan Administration's attempts to abolish the agency. Mr. Bradley built a coalition of key conservative and liberal politicians, convincing them to continue financing the agency, according to Clinton Lyons, executive director of the National Legal Aid and Defenders Association. 'Deeply Commited to His Cause'
        Representative Robert W. Kastenmeier, Democrat of Wisconsin, who is chairman of a subcommittee on courts, civil liberties and administration of justice that is still grappling with the agency's future, said Mr. Bradley was a ''very effective president.''
        ''They would have eliminated every dime, but he was deeply committed to his cause,'' Mr. Kastenmeier said. ''Dan wouldn't give up.'' Mr. Lyons dismissed assertions by some conservatives that Mr. Bradley had misused Federal funds for lobbying to help save the agency.
        ''Dan was an extremely gifted person about human relations,'' he said. ''He was great at building consensus. Without him, the Legal Services Corporation would not have survived.''
        In 1982, after more than 15 years of government service, Mr. Bradley publicly announced his homosexuality and accepted appointments on the boards of the Gay Rights National Lobby and the Lambda Legal Defense Fund Inc.
        He later said that he delayed disclosing his homosexuality while Congress comtemplated the agency's fate so that opponents of legal aid could not use it to their advantage.
        ''He was just so warm,'' said Virginia M. Apuzzo, a colleague in the gay rights movement. ''Dan built a life out of caring, concern, and compassion.''
        In 1982, he moved his law practice to Miami and embarked on a new mission as an advocate for gay rights.
        He chaired the American Bar Association's committee on gay rights while he continued his law practice.
        ''For some of us, the movement saved our lives so you give it back,'' Ms. Apuzzo said of the gay rights movement. ''Dan was like that. He would find a way to give even when it seemed impossible.''
        Mr. Bradley was orphaned at the age of 5 and grew up in the Georgia Baptist Children's Home, separated from his five siblings. He received undergraduate and law degrees from Mercer University in Macon, Ga.
        A funeral service will be held Sunday at 2 P.M. at the Smith, Steele, Meadows Funeral Home in Manchester, Ga. There also will be a memorial service 11 A.M. next Friday at Temple Israel in Miami. A memorial service in Washington will follow at a date yet to be announced.
      