
       J. Skelly Wright, who played an important role in promoting racial desegregation in a long career as a Federal judge, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westmoreland Hills, Md. He was 77 years old.
        J. Skelly Wright, who played an important role in promoting racial desegregation in a long career as a Federal judge, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westmoreland Hills, Md. He was 77 years old.
        Judge Wright, a pioneer in the desegregation of public schools and public transportation in his native New Orleans, was considered one of the most liberal judges in the nation's court system. He was also regarded by many Southern whites as a traitor to his class. Some called him ''Judas'' Wright.
        In the months after his order to integrate the public schools in New Orleans in 1960, Judge Wright was shunned by old friends. A cross was burned on the lawn of his home. Telephone threats against his life became so numerous that police guards were assigned to protect him.
        In the end, Judge Wright had his way, bringing about not only the integregation of the public schools in New Orleans but also the integration of universities, buses, parks, sporting events and voting lists, historic moves that reverberated elsewhere in the South in the 1950's and 1960's, the era of the civil rights campaigns.
        While his landmark desegregation efforts in New Orleans brought him national recognition, he was to remain very much in the public eye for years afterward, primarily as a liberal judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, widely regarded as second only to the United States Supreme Court as the nation's most powerful court. A Significant Retirement
        In June 1986, prompted by advancing age and concern over his health, Judge Wright retired from the appellate court. His retirement opened the way for President Reagan to achieve a conservative majority on what had once been regarded as the most liberal court in the nation, a friend of labor unions, consumer groups, the poor and the blacks.
        James Skelly Wright was born on Jan. 14, 1911, in New Orleans, the second of seven children of a city building superintendent. He attended all-white public schools and won a scholarship to Loyola University in New Orleans, graduating with a degree in philosophy. He then taught high school history courses while attending Loyola Law School at night.
        He received his law degree in 1934, four years into the Depression, so he accepted a position as a history teacher at Loyola. In 1937 he became an Assistant United States Attorney in New Orleans and participated in the early 1940's trials of some members of Huey Long's old political machine.
        Mr. Wright served in the Coast Guard in World War II, and while on duty in London in 1945 he married the former Helen Mitchell Patton, a secretary in the United States Embassy there. After the war he practiced law in Washington. A Federal Judge at 38
        In 1948 President Truman named Mr. Wright as United States Attorney in New Orleans and, a year later, appointed him as a judge on the Federal District Court in New Orleans. At the age of 38, he was the youngest judge on the Federal bench.
        Years later President Kennedy considered appointing Judge Wright to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, based in New Orleans, but feared that reaction to the judge's orders enforcing desegregation would make it difficult to win approval from Southern Senators. Instead, the President named him to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
        There, too, Judge Wright had a major effect on integregation efforts by ordering sweeping changes to eliminate ''criminal'' discrimination against poor blacks in the district's public schools.
        In that ruling, he broadened discrimination to include ''de facto'' discrimination - segregation existing largely because of segregated residential patterns. He wrote: ''Racially and socially homogeneous schools damage the minds and spirits of all the children who attend them - the Negro, the white, the poor and the affluent - and block the attainment of the broader goals of democratic education, whether the segregation occurs by law or by fact.'' Role in Pentagon Papers Case
        Judge Wright also played a pivotal role in the legal controversy over the publication in the summer of 1971 of the Pentagon papers, classified Defense Department documents dealing with covert United States involvement in the Vietnam War. He was the sole dissenter on a three-man panel that agreed to a temporary restraining order halting publication of portions of the documents by The Washington Post.
        In his dissent, Judge Wright argued that the White House had ''enlisted the judiciary in the suppression of our most precious freedom.'' Such a restraining order, he held, ''cheapens the First Amendment.''
        He lost that round, but was vindicated when the Supreme Court, just 11 days later, upheld in a 6-to-3 decision the right of The Post, The New York Times and other newspapers to publish the documents under the protection of the First Amendment.
        In his years on the bench, Judge Wright championed the poor, particularly the poor of the nation's inner cities, through his writings.
        In an article in The New York Times Magazine in the spring of 1969, Judge Wright wrote: ''Ignorance, discrimination, slums, poverty, disease and unemployment - these are conditions that breed dispair and violence. Is is any wonder that our cities, once melting pots, are now powder kegs?''
        He is survived by his wife; a son, James Skelly Wright Jr. of Washington; a brother, James Edward Wright Jr. of New Orleans; and three sisters, Rosemary Ruckert and Kathryn Hotard, both of New Orleans, and Margaret Hewes of Birmingham, Ala.
      