
       Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, who long dominated civilian politics in Panama even though he was deposed from the presidency three times by the military, died in Miami today, the Panamanian consul here said. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, who long dominated civilian politics in Panama even though he was deposed from the presidency three times by the military, died in Miami today, the Panamanian consul here said. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Arias had been living in exile in Miami and ''died of a heart attack at his home just a few hours ago,'' the consul, Roberto Dominguez, said.
        Dr. Arias reportedly suffered from heart trouble. His wife, Mireya, was with him when he died, Mr. Dominguez said.
        Dr. Arias feared returning to Panama because of his opposition to the nation's military ruler, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, said Mr. Dominguez, who also opposes the Noriega Government. ''If he had gone back, the military would have killed him,'' the consul said.
        Dr. Arias was elected President of Panama three times, and three times he was ousted by the military. He held the office in 1940-41, 1949-51 and for 11 days in 1968. Narrow Loss in '84
        The last coup led to the long domination of the Panamanian Government by the military, first under Gen. Omar Torrijos, who died in a 1981 plane crash, now under General Noriega.
        Dr. Arias, head of the Authentic Panamanian Party, narrowly lost the 1984 election to the official party's candidate, and his supporters and others accused the Government of fraud. Many also felt the military stole a 1964 electoral victory from him.
        He continued to speak out against the military, in 1986 accusing it of killing an opposition leader, Dr. Hugo Spadafora, who had accused the Noriega Government of involvement with drugs.
        General Noriega was indicted in Miami this year on charges of involvement in drug trafficking.
        Dr. Arias said he was always at a loss to explain his popularity with the Panamanian people.
        Born in 1901 when Panama was still part of Colombia, he was educated in the United States, becoming a physician, then returned to Panama. He became active in the new nation's politics as early as 1931, when he helped stage a coup against the President. A Supporter of Mussolini
        He later became ambassador to France and England, and in Europe became enamored of Mussolini's fascism. He returned to advocate it in Panama, and was elected President in 1940. In 12 months in power, he laid the basis of his future power by creating a social security system, giving the vote to women and strengthening labor laws.
        The United States, worried about his connections to the Axis powers on the eve of World War II, encouraged a military coup against him. Jail and exile followed until he returned again, winning the 1948 election but being forced to wait 18 months until the victory was recognized.
        Then, in May 1951, he was deposed by an alliance of the National Guard and wealthy families. In 1968, he was again elected, but this time served only 11 days before being ousted by the military. He then went into exile in Miami.
      