
       M. Carl Holman, president of the National Urban Coalition, a major figure in the fields of civil rights and urban affairs over four decades, died of cancer Tuesday night at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 69 years old and lived in Washington.
        M. Carl Holman, president of the National Urban Coalition, a major figure in the fields of civil rights and urban affairs over four decades, died of cancer Tuesday night at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 69 years old and lived in Washington.
        After a career as a college professor, poet and playwright, Mr. Holman joined the National Urban Coalition in 1968 as vice president of programs. In 1971 he became the organization's president.
        The coalition, formed in in the summer of 1967 after many cities were torn by racial rioting, sought to prevent future urban violence through a reordering of national priorities that would create jobs, provide decent housing and enhance private-sector involvement in reversing urban decline. Working Behind the Scenes
        Mr. Holman, a tall, dynamic administrator, was widely admired by civil rights and urban affairs advocates. ''He was a mentor and personal friend of almost everyone important in the civil rights movement for a quarter-century,'' said Robert Curvin, director of the urban poverty program of the Ford Foundation.
        His work often was quietly done behind the scenes. ''More than anybody I knew, he made it his business to make sure that people who ought to be talking to each other - but sometimes wouldn't - did indeed get together and talk,'' said Roger Wilkins, Robinson Professor of History and American Culture at George Mason University.
        His admirers spread far beyond the black community. For example, Hyman Bookbinder, of the American Jewish Congress, said, ''Since the earliest days of the war on poverty we shared together, no other public servant or public interest representative has been more successful in combining passionate advocacy and sophisticated strategy for elimination of poverty and discrimination in America.''
        Mr. Holman pioneered programs in housing, education, employment opportunity, job training and economic development. He also worked to bridge the gap between blacks and Hispanic Americans. ''He spent more time than virtually any black leader familiarizing himself with Hispanic issues and getting to know Hispanic leaders,'' Mr. Wilkins said.
        Alarmed in recent years over how poorly American children, especially those in the inner cities, were performing in science and mathematics studies, Mr. Holman devoted much energy to a program intended to help minority and female children develop scientific, mathematical and computer skills.
        Moses Carl Holman was born in Minter City, Miss., on June 27, 1919, the son of Moses and Mamie Durham Holman, who took him to St. Louis in his infancy. His father worked in a steel mill.
        Soon after M. Carl, so called to distinguish him from the elder Holman, entered school, he began writing stories and winning local prizes for them.
        He graduated magna cum laude from Lincoln University in Missouri in 1942, received a master's degree in English from the University of Chicago in 1944 and a master of fine arts from Yale in 1954. He was a professor of English and the humanities at Clark College in Atlanta from 1948 to 1962. Writer and Editor
        In those years, Mr. Holman wrote plays, a few of which received local performances, and poems, some of which were published in magazines and anthologies. He also became active in civil rights causes, working for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        At the request of some of his students, Mr. Holman helped found The Atlanta Inquirer in 1960, editing it as an all-black journal and refusing advertising from segregated businesses.
        In 1962, when friends urged him to get involved in civil rights on a national scale, Mr. Holman joined the staff of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, and, by 1966, he had become the agency's deputy staff director.
        As president of the National Urban Coalition, Mr. Holman gave it an approach that differed from other urban advocates for cities and the poor, emphasizing the need for partnerships in solving urban problems.
        The coalition, now made up of more than 40 affiliated groups in all the major cities, has been hindered in reaching its goals, Mr. Holman said recently, because ''we haven't had a coherent urban policy in this country''
        Mr. Holman is survived by his wife, the former Mariella Ama; two sons, Kwasi and Kwame, of Washington; a daughter, Kinshasa Conwill, director of the Studio Museum of Harlem; a sister, Milteree Jenkins, of St. Louis, and four grandchildren.
        A wake is to be Friday from 6 to 8 P.M. at Shiloh Baptist Church in Washington, and the funeral, at the same church, is Saturday at 11 A.M.
      