
       Jean Despres, a former executive of the Coty fragrance house and the husband of the milliner Lilly Dache, died Aug. 9 at his home in Meudon, France, of natural causes. He was 84.
        Jean Despres, a former executive of the Coty fragrance house and the husband of the milliner Lilly Dache, died Aug. 9 at his home in Meudon, France, of natural causes. He was 84.
        Mr. Despres spent his entire career at Coty, working for Francois Coty, the company's founder, in Paris and accompanying him to the United States in 1921 to establish its American operation. He remained in New York, rising to the rank of executive vice president. When he retired in the early 1970's, he served as a consultant to Pfizer Inc., which had acquired Coty.
        Born in Paris on Oct. 12, 1903, the son of Emile Despres, professor of mathematics and theology at the Sorbonne, and his wife, Marie-Louise Pitaluga, he attended the Lycee Janson de Sailly in Paris. A summer job in the shipping room of the Coty perfume laboratories led to his lifelong career. In 1931, he married Lilly Dache, who reigned as a leading hat designer from the 1930's until hats went out of fashion in the 60's. They lived for many years in a penthouse atop her millinery salon at 78 East 56th Street and maintained a weekend house in Pound Ridge, N.Y., He was formerly the chairman and director of the Toilet Goods Association, a trade organization now known as the Cosmetics, Toiletry and Fragrance Association. He was a Commandant des Chevaliers du Tastevin and a member of the French Purchasing Commission during World War II and was involved in secretly transferring perfume supplies to the United States shortly before the German Occupation of France.
        Mr. Despres is survived by his wife, a daughter, Suzanne Dache Gould of New York, and two grandsons, Douglas and John Gould. A private funeral service will take place Aug. 12 in Paris, with burial in the family plot at Montmartre Cemetery. A memorial service in New York is being planned for the fall.
      