
       Jean-Pierre Ponnelle, one of the most successful of present-day operatic directors and designers, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich, West Germany, where he maintained an apartment. He was 56 years old.
        Jean-Pierre Ponnelle, one of the most successful of present-day operatic directors and designers, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich, West Germany, where he maintained an apartment. He was 56 years old.
        Mr. Ponnelle's productions have been seen in nearly every important opera house in the world, from the Metropolitan in New York to the San Francisco Opera, from Paris to London and Milan to Vienna, from the Bayreuth Festival to the Salzburg Festival. His cycle of the Mozart operas with James Levine conducting has been a fixture at the Metropolitan and at Salzburg in recent seasons.
        Mr. Ponnelle was one of the first stage designers to direct his own productions, a fusion that insured the single-minded unity and clarity of his work. His success was the result of his intense professionalism, his high level of craftsmanship and his ability to tread the delicate line between vanguard innovation and operatic traditionalism. Protest Over 'Hollander'''
        In New York, his work was generally greeted with reservations, although his prevailingly gray, muted Mozart productions for the Metropolitan Opera received generally acceptable notices. His version of Wagner's ''Fliegender Hollander'' in 1979, in which the action is seen as a dream of the Steersman, a minor character, was met with howls of protest, as was his large-scale, determinedly unsparing view of Massenet's ''Manon'' two seasons ago.
        Harold C. Schonberg, writing in The New York Times, called Mr. Ponnelle's ''Hollander'' ''a bad dream, all the way through,'' and Donal Henahan, in an article for The Times entitled ''How About an Opera Directors' Hall of Infamy?,'' wrote of Mr. Ponnelle's ''mangling'' of the opera.
        Elsewhere, Mr. Ponnelle's work was often more warmly greeted. Michael Walsh of Time magazine praised his 1981 staging of Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde'' at Bayreuth, calling it ''exactly what is needed to keep the dead hand of tradition from strangling the vitality of music.'' A Special Success
        Mr. Ponnelle enjoyed a special success last summer with his production of Schoenberg's 12-tone opera ''Moses und Aaron'' at Salzburg - a production scheduled for repeat performances there next week. According to the Salzburg press office, illness forced Mr. Ponnelle to limit his participation in rehearsals for that production and for his staging of Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro.''
        Mr. Ponnelle was born in Paris on Feb. 19, 1932. His father, a vintner and music critic and a friend of Richard Strauss, moved the family from Burgundy to Baden-Baden, Germany, after the war, where the senior Mr. Ponnelle headed the radio in the French zone of occupation. There his son studied music with Hans Rosbaud, the noted modernist conductor. His later education included courses in philosophy and art history at the Sorbonne and instruction in painting from the French cubist Fernand Leger.
        A friend from student days was the German composer Hans Werner Henze, who encouraged Mr. Ponnelle to design his first production, of Mr. Henze's opera ''Boulevard Solitude'' in 1952. Throughout the 1950's, Mr. Ponnelle worked all over Europe as a designer in opera, ballet and theater. His American debut came in 1958, with sets for Carl Orff's ''Carmina Burana'' in San Francisco.
        Gradually, however, he began to feel that he had to direct, as well, in order to see his ideas properly realized. After his miltiary service ended in 1961, he directed a few plays, then made his operatic directing debut with a production of ''Tristan und Isolde'' in Dusseldorf, West Germany, in 1962.
        Mr. Ponnelle is survived by his wife, the actress and director Margit Saad, and a son.
        JEAN-PIERRE PONNELLE, 56, IS DEAD
      