
       Louis Balducci, the grocer who put Italian sunshine on New York tables with the ripest tomatoes and the finest focaccio, died of leukemia Thursday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 89 years old and lived in Flushing.
        Louis Balducci, the grocer who put Italian sunshine on New York tables with the ripest tomatoes and the finest focaccio, died of leukemia Thursday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 89 years old and lived in Flushing.
        Born in Corato, Italy, he came to New York in 1914 and opened a produce business. His first store was in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn.
        But it was Greenwich Village that he nourished, long before virgin olive oil and buffalo mozzarella became part of the stock of amateur cooks, and radicchio replaced iceberg lettuce almost everywhere but McDonald's. His first store, on Greenwich Avenue, stocked the best fruits and vegetables.
        In 1972, he moved to the present Balducci's, 424 Avenue of the Americas, near Ninth Street, where the business evolved from grocery to gastronomy. In 1977 he added Italian and French cheeses and specialty foods. Remained a Step Ahead
        As his public became more sophisticated and exacting, Mr. Balducci remained a step ahead of their tastes, importing white truffles, kiwis, creme fraiche and blue corn chips. Today, Balducci's is a full-scale upscale greengrocer-butcher-charcuterie, with an ecumenical mix of bialys and Brie, souffles and sausages, chilis and cabbages, all reflecting Mr. Balducci's efforts to bring the best to his customers.
        He once said that his motto was simple: ''Courtesy - you should smile all the time and don't cheat anybody. But quality is the most important.''
        Joseph Doria, who married Mr. Balducci's daughter Grace and went into the family's business, recalls the winter of 1955, ''when a customer who was pregnant wanted watermelon. So my father-in-law flew it in, specially,'' Mr. Doria said.
        As the store expanded, Mr. Balducci searched out new products in Italy and France, and on his own table. ''He started takeout with food cooked by my mother-in-law and my wife,'' Mr. Doria said. Famous Customers
        Mr. Balducci also looked northward for inspiration - to Zabar's - for its abundance of food. He sought out the best prosciutto, the tastiest breads, the fruitiest oils. ''He knew how to tell a good stringbean from a bad one,'' Mr. Doria said. ''He got up early, when everyone else was sleeping. He always bought the best quality - price was no object.''
        Famous neighbors and visitors became frequent customers: Mayor Koch, James Beard, Lauren Hutton, Anne Bancroft, Perry Como among them. Mr. Balducci could often be found in the produce department, explaining differences among six varieties of Italian mushrooms.
        In 1985, when Mr. and Mrs. Doria left to start their own business on the East Side, a family rift developed over the Dorias' intention to name their store Balducci's. It was finally called Grace's Market Place, and Mr. Balducci proudly attended the opening, at which Mathilda Cuomo cut a ribbon.
        He continued to visit his store, offering advice and greeting customers, until a month ago, when he became ill.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria; two sons, Charles, of Malba, Queens, and Andrew. of Roslyn, L.I.; his daughter, Grace Doria of Flushing; 17 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      