
       Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occupant of the White House Oval Office.
        Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occupant of the White House Oval Office.
        ''Anyone who is fortunate enough to get close to Ed Williams is well served,'' said Edmund S. Muskie, the former Democratic Senator from Maine and former Secretary of State. ''Ed is not directly or actively involved in politics, but he is a political animal with good political instincts. If he were to speak well of a candidate, or to make himself available for counseling, this becomes known and has a rippling effect among opinion makers, party leaders and fund raisers.''
        But Mr. Williams insisted that his political connections were merely ''professional friendships,'' and he defied, a bit disengenuously, anyone to tell him how his knowing a President or many senators could help him in the courtroom.
        ''I'm not a lobbyist, and I'm not a fixer, so my political connections have never benefitted me'' he said. ''I do most of my work in a goldfish bowl of the courtroom.''
        In the courtroom, in his passion to see that his clients received every benefit of the Sixth Amendment guarantee of a defendant's right to a fair trial, Mr. Williams found himself in sometimes diverse company, and more often than not, he won his cases.
        He defended the likes of Senator McCarthy, whose Communist-hunting zeal brought him to disgrace and censure by his Senate colleagues; teamster bosses Dave Beck and Mr. Hoffa, accused of racketeering and bribery; the Mafia mobster and gambler Frank Costello, whom Mr. Williams saved from deportation; Bobby Baker, the Lyndon B. Johnson protege who wound up in prison for political corruption; the fugitive financier Robert Vesco; John B. Connally, the former Treasury Secretary who was exonerated on charges that he took an illegal gratuity from a lobbying group; and Adam Clayton Powell, the former United States Representative from New York accused of tax evasion. Wins Case for Powell
        The Powell case typified Mr. Williams's courtroom skills. He won dismissal of the first two of three of the charges against Mr. Powell. Then, by raising enough doubt about the remaining one, obtained a hung jury.
        His fellow lawyers marveled at Mr. Williams's way with juries, holding them in thrall with a rare combination of courtroom qualities. He made it evident he had almost total recall, and when he rose to address a jury, he spoke quietly but forcefully for as long as two hours without notes, citing dates, names, page numbers and figures flawlessly.
        Mr. Williams was also admired as an uncommonly shrewd judge of human nature, one who eschewed the use of sociological or psychological studies to pick a jury. ''I have never taken more than a half day to select as jury, and I have never lost a case because I didn't have time to pick a jury,'' he said.
        Nevertheless, some of Mr. Williams's critics who deplored what they called his ''hired gun'' approach to accepting clients of wealth, pointed to at least one important case in which he was most careful to select a jury that was composed of eight blacks and four whites. That was the 1957 bribery case of Mr. Hoffa. His critics complained that Mr. Williams was able to win the union official an acquittal partly by having Joe Louis, the boxer who was an idol among blacks at the time, walk up to Mr. Hoffa in a brief recess and, in sight of the predominantly black jury, give him an affectionate hug.
        As a result of the Hoffa victory, Mr. Williams won a $50,000-a-year contract as general counsel to the teamsters union. But relations between lawyer and client were ruptured in 1964 when Mr. Williams maintained that he could not represent Mr. Hoffa personally in his protracted legal troubles because he was counsel to the union membership, not individual union leaders. Born in May 1920
        Born May 31, 1920, in Hartford, Conn., Mr. Williams was the son of Mary Bennett and Joseph Barnard Williams, a department store floorwalker who lost his job in the Depression and was often without work. The young Williams helped out by working at a gas station, but continued to do well in local schools and went to the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., on a scholarship. Upon graduation in 1941 he entered the Army, but received a medical discharge two years later after suffering back injuries in the crash of a training plane.
        Planning to get into politics, Mr. Williams enrolled in Georgetown University law school, where his record was outstanding. He was picked by a prominent Washington law firm, Hogan & Hartson, to work in its offices.
        ''I went there during my third year of law school,'' Mr. Williams said. ''I began sitting at the table every day with trial lawyers. I became so taken with it that I just abandoned the idea of going back to Hartford and entering politics. I liked the idea of being a trial lawyer in Washington.''
        With Hogan & Hartson, starting in 1945, Mr. Williams gained invaluable trial experience defending corporate clients in dozens of routine negligence and damage suits. But by 1949 he had decided there were ''only a certain number of ways to get hit by a streetcar'' and he wanted to deal with trial law ''in its relationship to human rights as distinguished from property rights,'' and to defend controversial figures who had been ''prejudged by society.''
        Mr. Williams opened his own law office, but not before marrying Dorothy Adair Guider, the daughter of one of his former bosses. They had three children. She died in 1959, and the next year Mr. Williams married one of the lawyers in his own firm, Agnes Anne Neill, and they had four children.
        In his 1962 book ''One Man's Freedom,'' in which Mr. Williams stated his passionate belief in the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to competent counsel, he said that as his success and fame grew, he himself began to suffer from ''imputation of guilt by client.'' Vilified by Both Sides
        Depending on the case, Mr. Williams was vilified either as a Communist or as a right wing reactionary. He successfully advised Senator McCarthy in a tax case and a libel suit and he became nationally known in 1954 when he advised the Mr. Mcarthy in the Senate censure action against him. It was generally believed that Mr. Williams lost that battle because of Mr. McCarthy's interference in proceedings outside the hearings.
        In the same year he was advising the conservative Senator in the censure hearings, Mr. Williams also represented Robert Rossen and Sidney Buchman, two Hollywood writers cited for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer Congressional questions about alleged Communist activities.
        Mr. Williams said that his successes were due largely to his elaborate pretrial preparation, which required self-discipline so intense that he would go into ''an almost monastic existence for weeks at a time.'' His total immersion in a client's cause made it possible, he said, for him to abide by his cardinal rule: ''Never ask a witness a question to which you don't already know the answer.''
        A trademark of a Williams defense was the creative use of character witnesses. In the 1975 case of Mr. Connally, for example, he paraded before the jury a string of famous friends of the defendant, including the evangelist, Billy Graham.
        Mr. Williams asked Mr. Graham what his profession was, and Mr. Graham replied: 'I teach the gospel of Jesus Christ across the face of the earth,'' impelling one juror to say ''Amen!'' Mr. Williams said he thought that was a good harbinger of the acquittal that was to follow.
        Mr. Williams was a tall, impressive, well-tailored presence in the courtroom. His hair was wavy and flowed over the back of his collar, and as he spoke in a calm but resonant voice he moved about the chamber with the grace of a leopard. Leaves Republicans in Disgust
        Although for years he liked to say that he followed ''private political convictions,'' Mr. Williams was in fact a liberal Republican until 1964. But he was so disgusted by the harassment and jeering of one of his political idols, Nelson A. Rockefeller, by the right wing at his party's national convention that he became a Democrat.
        He had cordial relationships with all Presidents in the years that followed, but in the Jimmy Carter Administration he decided he did not much care for the style of the Georgian who had campaigned against the ''Washington establishment'' of which Mr. Williams had been so long a part.
        In 1980 Mr. Williams spearheaded the ''Dump Carter'' movement, an unsuccessful attempt to have an open Democratic convention at which delegates would not be bound by the vote in their states' primary elections. Mr. Carter won renomination but lost the election to Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Williamns is survived by his wife, Agnes, seven children, and three grandchildren.
      