
       Otto E. Passman, an acid-tongued son of Louisiana sharecroppers who served in Congress for 30 years and pursued a relentless battle against spending for foreign aid, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Monroe, La. He was 88 years old.
        Otto E. Passman, an acid-tongued son of Louisiana sharecroppers who served in Congress for 30 years and pursued a relentless battle against spending for foreign aid, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Monroe, La. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Passman, who became a central figure in a case of reported influence-buying by a Korean businessman a decade ago, was first elected to Congress in 1946. He was a conservative Democrat and segregationist who staunchly opposed civil rights legislation, fought for restrictions on organized labor and criticized government spending in many areas.
        He was chairman of the House Foreign Aid Appropriations Subcommittee from 1954 until he was defeated in his bid for a 16th term in 1976. His fiery speeches in opposition to foreign aid on the floor of the House, and his critical questioning of foreign aid administrators in the Eisenhower and Kennedy Administrations, led critics to brand him ''Otto the Terrible.'' Represented Rural Area
        ''The best way to destroy friends is to start supporting them with gifts and favors,'' Mr. Passman said in 1956 when he urged Congressional colleagues to reject an appeal from President Eisenhower to raise a foreign aid ceiling.
        A dapper, gray-haired man, who represented the largely rural Fifth District of Louisiana, he faced no organized or well-financed election challenges in his 30 years in Congress until he was upset by Jerry Huckaby in a 1976 primary.
        Before the primary defeat, Mr. Passman had been accused of cheating on his Congressional expense accounts and using his influence to persuade foreign governments to ship rice in ships owned by a California company, the St. John Maritime Company. He denied the charges.
        Two years after was out of Congress, he was charged with taking illegal gratuities while in the House. He was found not guilty in 1979 after a lengthly trial in Monroe of taking $273,000 from Tongsun Park, a wealthy Korean rice trader in exchange for using his influence to aid him.
        Otto Ernest Passman, who described himself as ''just a country boy,'' was born on June 27, 1900, on farm near Franklinton, La.. to Ed and Pheriby Passman, who were sharecroppers.
        As a child, he left grade school when he was 13 years old and spent the next 16 years working at a variety of jobs. While working in the day, he attended night classes, graduating from Baton Rouge High School and Commercial Business College in Bogalusa, La. First Wife Died in 1984
        Mr. Passman, an astute businessman, moved in 1929 to Monroe and established the Passman Wholesale Equipment Company, which manufactured commercial refrigerators and restaurant equipment. In 1931, he married the former Willie Bateman, his wife of 53 years, who died in 1984.
        In the 1930's Mr. Passman also acquired a wholesale equipment company in Fort Smith, Ark., and a furniture concern and an investment company in Monroe.
        He joined the Navy in 1942 as a lieutenant and served as a procurement officer until his discharge as a lieutenant commander in 1944.
        It was in World War II that he decided to enter politics, and he defeated the incumbent Congressman from Louisiana's Fifth District, Charles E. MacKenzie, in a 1946 Democratic primary election.
        In Congress, Mr. Passman quickly established a reputation as an articulate conservative. With a largely rural constituency, he supported several measures designed to aid farmers, including an allocation of $2 billion in farm price supports in 1950, but he opposed government aid programs in other areas. Aid Delays and Reductions
        After he was named chairman of the House Foreign Aid Appropriations Subcommittee in 1954, he began a crusade against foreign aid that forced delays and reduced spending in the programs for more than 20 years. In closed committee meetings, he frequently subjected administrators of the programs to prolonged hostile questioning on minute details of their programs.
        One target was the Development Loan Fund, an government agency that made loans to poor nations. After making what he described as fact-finding trips to several countries in Asia and the Middle East in 1959 and 1960, he charged the program with mismanagement, but offered no evidence to support the charges.
        Throughout his 30 years in the House, Mr. Passman, who was six feet tall, maintained an early morning regimen of calisthenics that kept him at a trim 175 pounds. A dapper dresser, he told reporters that his wardrobe included 48 suits.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha, whom he married in 1985.
      