
       Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but both Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occupant of the White House Oval
        Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but both Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occupant of the White House Oval Office.
        ''Anyone who is fortunate enough to get close to Ed Williams is well served,'' said Edmund S. Muskie, the former Democratic Senator from Maine who was also a former Secretary of State. ''Ed is not directly or actively involved in politics, but he is a political animal with good political instincts. If he were to speak well of a candidate, or to make himself available for counseling, this becomes known and has a rippling effect among opinion makers, party leaders and fund raisers.''
        But Mr. Williams insisted that his political connections were merely ''professional friendships,'' and defied, a bit disingenuously, anyone to tell him how his knowing a President or many senators could help him in the courtroom.
        ''I'm not a lobbyist, and I'm not a fixer, so my political connections have never benefitted me'' he said. ''I do most of my work in a goldfish bowl of the courtroom.'' Passion for Fair Trial
        In the courtroom, in his passion to see that his clients received every benefit of the Sixth Amendment guarantee of a defendant's right to a fair trial, Mr. Williams found himself in sometimes giddily diverse company, and more often than not, he won his cases.
        He defended the likes of Senator McCarthy, whose Communist-hunting zeal brought him to disgrace and censure by his Senate colleagues; the teamster bosses Dave Beck and Mr. Hoffa, accused of racketeering and bribery; Mr. Costello, whom Mr. Williams saved from deportation; Bobby Baker, the Johnson protege who wound up in prison for political corruption; the fugitive financier Robert Vesco; John Connolly, the former Treasury Secretary who was exonerated on charges that he took an illegal gratuity from a lobbying group, and Adam Clayton Powell, a United States Representative from New York accused of tax evasion.
        The Powell case typified Mr. Williams's courtroom skills. He won dismissal of the first two of three charges against Mr. Powell. Then, by raising enough doubt about the remaining one, obtained a hung jury.
        His fellow lawyers marveled at Mr. Williams's way with juries, holding them in thrall with a rare combination of courtroom qualities. He made it evident he had almost total recall, and when he rose to address a jury, he spoke quietly but forcefully for as long as two hours without notes, citing dates, names, page numbers and figures flawlessly. Shrewd and a 'Hired Gun'
        Mr. Williams was also admired as an uncommonly shrewd judge of human nature, one who eschewed the use of sociological or psychological studies to pick a jury. ''I have never taken more than a half day to select a jury, and I have never lost a case because I didn't have time to pick a jury,'' he said. ''I think this is one of the shortcomings of our criminal justice system - judges tolerate too much in the jury selection process.''
        Nevertheless, some of Mr. Williams's critics, deploring what they called his ''hired gun'' approach to accepting clients of wealth, pointed to at least one important case in which he was most careful to select a jury that was composed of eight blacks and four whites. That was the 1957 bribery case of Mr. Hoffa. His critics complained that Mr. Williams was able to win the teamsters' leader an acquittal partly by having the boxer Joe Louis, an idol among blacks at the time, walk up to Mr. Hoffa in a brief recess and, in sight of the predominantly black jury, give him an affectionate hug.
        As a result of the Hoffa victory, Mr. Williams won a $50,000-a-year contract as general counsel to the teamsters' union. But relations between lawyer and client were ruptured severely in 1964 when Mr. Williams maintained that he could not represent Mr. Hoffa personally in his protracted legal troubles because he was counsel to the union membership, but not individual union leaders. Picked Out by a Big Law Firm
        Born May 31, 1920, in Hartford, Conn., Edward Bennett Williams was the son of Mary Bennett and Joseph Barnard Williams, a department store floorwalker who lost his job in the Depression and was often without work. The young Williams helped out by working at a gas station, but continued to do well in local schools and went to Holy Cross College on an academic scholarship. Upon graduation in 1941 he entered the Army, but received a medical discharge two years later after suffering back injuries in the crash of a training plane.
        Planning to get into politics, Mr. Williams enrolled in Georgetown University Law School, where his record was outstanding. So much so, in fact, that he was picked by a prominent Washington law firm, Hogan & Hartson, to work in its offices.
        ''I went there during my third year of law school,'' Mr. Williams said. ''I began sitting at the table every day with trial lawyers. I became so taken with it that I just abandoned the idea of going back to Hartford and entering politics. I liked the idea of being a trial lawyer in Washington.''
        With Hogan & Hartson, starting in 1945, Mr. Williams gained invaluable trial experience defending corporate clients in dozens of routine negligence and damage suits. But by 1949 he had decided that there were ''only a certain number of ways to get hit by a streetcar'' and that he wanted to deal with trial law ''in its relationship to human rights as distinguished from property rights,'' and to defend controversial figures who had been ''prejudged by society.'' Marriage and a Practice
        Mr. Williams opened his own law office, but not before marrying Dorothy Guider, the daughter of one of his former bosses. They had three children. She died in 1959 and the next year Mr. Williams married one of the lawyers in his own firm, Agnes A. Neill, and they had four children.
        In his 1962 book ''One Man's Freedom,'' in which Mr. Williams stated his passionate belief in the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to competent counsel, he said that as his success and fame grew, he himself began to suffer from ''imputation of guilt by client.''
        ''The lawyer is neither expected nor qualified to make a moral judgment on the person seeking his help,'' Mr. Williams wrote, but in the view of the public, ''only the lawyer is expected to turn away a client because society regards him as socially, morally or politically obnoxious. Only the lawyer is suspect if he advises someone in defense of his liberty.'' He added that conversely, and perversely, no one would criticize a clergyman or physician for helping a client of low moral character.
        But depending on the case, Mr. Williams was vilified both as a Communist and a right-wing reactionary. He successfully advised Senator McCarthy in a tax case and a libel suit and he became nationally known in 1954 when he advised the Mr. Mcarthy in the Senate censure action against him. It was generally believed that Mr. Williams lost that battle because of Mr. McCarthy's interference in proceedings outside the hearings. Witch Hunts: For the Defense
        In the same year that he was advising the conservative Senator in the censure hearings, Mr. Williams also represented Robert Rossen and Sidney Buchman, two Hollywood writers cited for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer Congressional questions about alleged Communist activities.
        Mr. Williams said his successes were due largely to his elaborate pretrial preparation, which required self-discipline so intense that he would go into ''an almost monastic existence for weeks at a time.'' That meant going on a diet, abstinence from alcohol, and refusing to see even his closest friends, most of whom were sports figures and journalists. His total immersion in a client's cause made it possible, he said, for him to abide by his cardinal rule: ''Never ask a witness a question to which you don't already know the answer.''
        A trademark of a Williams defense was the creative use of character witnesses. In the 1975 case of John B. Connally, for example, he paraded before the jury a string of famous friends of the defendant, including Lady Bird Johnson; Robert Strauss, the Democratic Party official; former Secretary of State Dean Rusk; former Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara, and the evangelist Billy Graham.
        Mr. Williams asked Mr. Graham what his profession was, and Mr. Graham replied: 'I teach the gospel of Jesus Christ across the face of the earth,'' impelling one juror to say ''Amen!'' Mr. Williams said he thought that was a good harbinger of the acquittal that was to follow. Became a Democrat in '64
        Mr. Williams was a tall, impressive, well-tailored presence in the courtroom. His hair was wavy and flowed over the back of his collar, and as he spoke in a calm but resonant voice he moved about the chamber with the grace of a leopard. He never shouted for emphasis, was never flamboyant, never pounded on desks to make a point and never resorted to the theatrical tricks often associated with trial lawyers.
        Although for years he liked to say that he followed ''private political convictions,'' Mr. Williams was in fact a liberal Republican until 1964. But he was so disgusted by the harassment and jeering of one of his political idols, Nelson A. Rockefeller, by right-wingers at his party's national convention that he became a Democrat.
        He had cordial relationships with all Presidents in the years that followed, but during the Jimmy Carter Administration he decided he did not much care for the style of the Georgian who had, after all, campaigned against the ''Washington establishment'' of which Mr. Williams had so long been a part.
        Prompted by Senator Henry M. Jackson and other Democrats, Mr. Williams in 1980 spearheaded the ''Dump Carter'' movement, an unsuccessful attempt to have an open Democratic convention at which delegates would not be bound by the vote in their states' primary elections. Mr. Carter won renomination but lost the election to Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, Agnes, seven children and three grandchildren.
      