
       Barry Bingham Sr., whose newspapers in Louisville, Ky., were leading liberal voices in the South, for decades, died yesterday at his Louisville home. He was 82 years old and had been undergoing treatment for cancer.
        Barry Bingham Sr., whose newspapers in Louisville, Ky., were leading liberal voices in the South, for decades, died yesterday at his Louisville home. He was 82 years old and had been undergoing treatment for cancer.
        The Bingham newspapers, The Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, championed such unpopular causes as civil rights and strip-mining reform, and won seven Pulitzer Prizes after coming under Bingham ownership in 1918.
        In large part, their success was a result of Mr. Bingham's long-standing policy of sacrificing profit for editorial excellence. For instance, each paper had its own art critics, which most owners of papers the size of his two would have considered a great extravagance.
        In 1971, Mr. Bingham retired from active management of the family companies, though he remained chairman. The family businesses included Louisville television and radio stations and a printing company. New Publicity Over Sale
        Mr. Bingham was again thrust into the public eye in January 1986 when he decided to sell the papers and other enterprises to escape bitter family strife. His decision was characterized as a betrayal by his only surviving son, Barry Bingham Jr., who had managed the family businesses since 1971.
        At the time, Barry Bingham Jr. was locked in a struggle over the future of the companies with his sisters Eleanor Miller, who favored the sale and has remained close to her parents, and Sallie Bingham, who also favored selling but has denounced the family as sexist and is estranged from the family.
        The sale of the properties brought about $435 million, $300 million of which was paid by the Gannett Company for the newspapers.
        Barry Bingham Sr. said in 1986 of his decision to sell the companies that his children had never learned to compromise, a practice he considered essential. Though the family remains divided over the wisdom of selling, he was attended closely by Eleanor and Barry Jr. in the months of his sickness.
        Mr. Bingham was born in Louisville, where his father, Robert Worth Bingham, was a lawyer and politician and, later, United States Ambassador to Britain. After Mr. Bingham's mother died in an automobile accident, his father remarried Mary Lily Kenan Flagler, one of the nation's richest women. She died within a year, and left Robert Worth Bingham $5 million with which he acquired the Louisville newspapers.
        After graduating magna cum laude from Harvard in 1928, Barry Bingham Sr. returned to Louisville to enter the family business. He married Mary Clifford Caperton of Richmond, Va., who graduated from Radcliffe in the same year.
        After his father died in 1937, Barry Bingham became sole owner of the family enterprises. He hired Mark Ethridge, a celebrated liberal Southern publisher, as operating head of the companies. Advocate of Civil Rights
        Mr. Bingham, as editor, directed the editorial page. Though the papers' later support for civil rights prompted a violent backlash, he said that in 1939 and 1940 his vigorous advocacy of the United States entering World War II was even more unpopular in isolationist Kentucky.
        In May 1941 Mr. Bingham went on active duty in the Naval Reserve, mainly in response to taunts by his isolationist critics. He left Mr. Ethridge in charge of the newspapers in his absence, directing him to pay close attention to Mrs. Bingham, who was her husband's closest adviser.
        He directed public relations for the Navy in Europe and was praised by reporters for his energetic efforts to speed articles through censorship. Upon returning to Louisville in 1945, he elected to remain editor and president of the papers so he could retain the services of Mr. Ethridge, who kept the title of publisher until 1961. That was the year Mr. Ethridge retired.
        The arrangement freed Mr. Bingham to accept a wide array of other tasks. For example, in 1949 he began a year's service as chief of the Marshall Plan in France, and was given the rank of Commander, Legion of Honor, by the French Government. In 1955, he gave a series of lectures in the Fourth Fulbright Conference on American Studies at University College, Oxford.
        Mr. Bingham took a very active role in local affairs. The companies contributed 5 percent of their pretax earnings to local charity, and even late in life, Mr. Bingham was deeply involved with community projects, especially arts endeavors like the Kentucky Center for the Arts Endowment Fund, of which he was chairman.
        But the elegant appearance and glamorous living style of the Binghams, as well as their wealth, power and liberal politics, set them apart from many of their Louisville neighbors. They moved with a patrician grace through the cosmopolitan world outside Kentucky that occupied much of their time. Mr. Bingham was an overseer at Harvard University for 12 years, a trustee of the Asia Foundation and involved with many national and international organizations. A Stevenson Supporter
        He was an ardent Democrat and devoted himself full time to Adlai E. Stevenson's 1956 Presidential campaign, not an unusual move for newspaper executives of that era.
        Mr. Bingham's editorial page usually endorsed Democrats and he was at his most combative when he was writing editorials. He was also a man who loathed confrontation and sought common ground, and that made him less a kingmaker than his Republican and conservative critics contended he was.
        Instead, to exert leadership behind the scenes, he used a talent for charm and tact and the influence of his communications empire.
        Two of Mr. Bingham's sons, Jonathan and Worth, were killed in accidents in the mid-1960's, and his third son, Barry Bingham Jr., was stricken with Hodgkin's disease soon after taking charge of the family businesses in 1971. Though Barry Jr. recovered, the series of misfortunes aroused in Mr. Bingham a sense that the family was ill-fated.
        Maintaining family ownership, especially of the newspapers, had been the central purpose of Mr. Bingham's life. But after deciding to sell, he said that he felt the outcome was almost destined.
        Mr. Bingham lived from childhood on the family estate overlooking the Ohio River at Glenview, Ky., and had a summer house at Chatham, Mass.
        He is survived by his wife, two daughters, and son, all of Louisville, and nine grandchildren.
      