
       Frank Pace Jr., a former Secretary of the Army and the first chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, died of a heart attack Friday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Frank Pace Jr., a former Secretary of the Army and the first chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, died of a heart attack Friday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Mr. Pace, who combined strong interests in public service and private business, was a senior executive with the General Dynamics Corporation for 10 years, serving as the executive vice president, president and chairman of the giant military contractor between 1953 and 1963.
        Mr. Pace had a lifelong affiliation with the Democratic Party and sat on scores of Presidential commmissions, task forces and other panels under eight Presidents, starting with Harry S. Truman in 1946 and ending with President Reagan in 1982.
        His first Federal post came under President Truman. He joined the Truman Administration in 1946 as a special assistant to the Attorney General. Four years later, President Truman named him Secretary of the Army, a post in which he remained until President Eisenhower took office in 1953.
        President Johnson appointed Mr. Pace chairman of the Public Broadcasting Corporation when it was established in 1968. He served until 1972.
        Besides his prominent roles in business and Government, Mr. Pace also founded two nonprofit service organizations: the International Executive Service Corps, in 1964, and the National Executive Service Corps, in 1977.
        He headed the international corps, which uses American management talent to help developing countries, until 1982, and was chairman of the domestic corps, which helps other nonprofit organizations to address their management needs, at the time of his death.
        Mr. Pace, who was born in Little Rock, Ark., on July 5, 1912, was educated at the Hill School in Pottstown, Pa., before attending Princeton University, from which he graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in political science in 1933. He earned a law degree from the Harvard Law School in 1936.
        That same year, he became an assistant District Attorney in Arkansas's 12th judicial district. From 1938 to 1940, he was general counsel to the Arkansas Revenue Department.
        During World War II, Mr. Pace was a personnel and administrative officer with the Army's Air Transport Command, rising to the rank of major.
        After the war, Mr. Pace joined the the Justice Department for a year, followed by two years as an executive assistant to the Postmaster General. In 1948, he was named assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget, and its director the following year, during which time there was a $3 billion budget surplus.
        Mr. Pace, who was a director or trustee of dozens of companies and civic organizations, received many awards. Among them were honorary degrees from 16 universities, including Columbia, Dartmouth and Syracuse.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Morris Janney of Philadelphia; three daughters, Paula P. Smith of Manhattan, Priscilla von Matthiessen of Yellow Springs, Ohio, and Penny Pace-Schott of Ipswich, Mass., and three grandchildren.
        The funeral service will be private. A memorial service is to be at 11 A.M. Wednesday at Christ Episcopal Church in Greenwich.
      