
       Monroe Wheeler, who over the past half century was deeply involved in the publication and exhibition programs of the Museum of Modern Art, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        Monroe Wheeler, who over the past half century was deeply involved in the publication and exhibition programs of the Museum of Modern Art, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Wheeler joined the staff in 1935, six years after the museum opened, and became a key figure in the institution's work. In 1941, he was named head of the department of exhibitions and publications, a post he kept until 1967, when he resigned to become an adviser to the board of trustees.
        Before joining the museum, Mr. Wheeler had been a publisher for six years in Europe, where he befriended many leading modern artists - among them Picasso, Renoir and Chagall -and commissioned deluxe illustrated books and limited-edition prints from them.
        His knowledge of and passion for books continued at the museum, and it was as head of the publications department that he made his greatest mark. He supervised the publication of more than 350 books on the visual arts, including Edward Steichen's book of photographs ''The Family of Man,'' and scholarly publications including John Rewald's ''History of Impressionism.''
        ''He reached out and created a whole new public for the Modern,'' Richard Oldenburg, the museum's director, said yesterday. ''The museum became known for the quality of its books. He was passionately devoted to quality of illustration and design, and he developed the first-rate publishing by museums that we know today.'' A Detail Man
        In his role as director of exhibitions, Mr. Wheeler organized dozens of major museum shows, often tending to the myriad details of loan negotiations, budgets and staff management.
        ''It was as a diplomat, an organizer and a publisher, not as a scholar, that he made his career in the museum,'' wrote Russell Lynes of Mr. Wheeler in the 1973 history of the museum, ''Good Old Modern.''
        After his retirement in 1967, Mr. Wheeler remained actively involved in museum business, especially as a trustee and as a member of the International Council, which supports the Modern's international exhibition and education programs. In 1968, Mr. Wheeler directed the exhibition ''Cezanne to Miro,'' which traveled to Argentina, Chile and Venezuela, the first major exhibition of modern art to travel from the United States to Latin America.
        Early this year, the museum dedicated a reading room in the Prints and Illustrated Books Galleries to Mr. Wheeler.
        He is survived by his brother, Richard Wheeler of Evanston, Ill., and his sister, Doris Bach, of Madison, Wisc.
      