
       Abe J. Greene, the Paterson, N.J., newspaperman and ring official who was credited with cleaning up boxing in New Jersey and turning the state into a major venue for the sport, died of heart failure yesterday at Barnert Memorial Hospital in Paterson. He was 89 years old.
        Abe J. Greene, the Paterson, N.J., newspaperman and ring official who was credited with cleaning up boxing in New Jersey and turning the state into a major venue for the sport, died of heart failure yesterday at Barnert Memorial Hospital in Paterson. He was 89 years old.
        As the longtime president and later commissioner of the old National Boxing Association and as a four-term New Jersey State Athletic Commissioner, Mr. Greene became one of the boxing's best-liked and most respected officials. He championed the rights and well-being of boxers against their sometimes callous and unscrupulous managers even as he worked to make the sport profitable for the businessmen who ran it.
        He worked as an editor at The Paterson Evening News while serving in his boxing posts.
        Mr. Greene, then the city editor of The Evening News, first came to prominence in 1933, when he served as chairman of a special labor-management commission that resolved a 14-week strike by 10,000 local silk workers.
        A campaign he waged in the newspaper against fake boxing matches led to his appointment as a boxing inspector, which led in turn to his appointment as the state's athletic commissioner in 1937 and in 1941 to his election as president of the National Boxing Association, which sanctioned bouts outside New York.
        The next year he became the first man re-elected to the boxing association post, which he held until the late 1940's, when he was named commissioner, a more powerful position that had been created especially for him.
        Mr. Greene, whose wife, Hana, died many years ago, is survived by a sister, Rose Blank of Hackensack, N.J.; two daughters, Marna Palmisano of Paterson and Ronnie Bernstein of Allendale, N.J., and five grandchildren.
        The funeral will be held at 2 P.M. today at Schoen's Menorah Chapel in Paramus.
      