
       Roy Kinnear, a British actor best known for his comic roles, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Ruber International Hospital in Madrid after falling from a horse. He was 54 years old and lived in London.
        Roy Kinnear, a British actor best known for his comic roles, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Ruber International Hospital in Madrid after falling from a horse. He was 54 years old and lived in London.
        During the filming of ''The Last Return of the Three Musketeers,'' Mr. Kinnear fell from his horse in Toledo, Spain, and was taken to the Madrid hospital with a fractured pelvis. He suffered a heart attack the next day.
        He played the role of Planchet, the servant of the Musketeer d'Artagnan, a role he created in the Richard Lester hit, ''The Three Musketeers,'' in 1974.
        Mr. Kinnear's fellow actors in the film, including Michael York, Richard Chamberlain, Oliver Reed and Frank Finlay, and Mr. Lester, the film's director, said they planned to dedicate the film to Mr. Kinnear. Filming was nearly completed when he died. A Befuddled Manner
        The short, heavyset actor first came into prominence on the BBC television show ''That Was the Week That Was.'' Its zany satire, which became symbolic of the cheeky, anti-Establishment London of the 1960's, was a perfect vehicle for Mr. Kinnear's perpetually befuddled manner, used frequently to lampoon Government officials.
        Mr. Kinnear enjoyed a long collaboration with Mr. Lester and appeared in several of his films, including ''Help!,'' the 1965 film that starred the Beatles and Leo McKern; ''How I Won the War,'' starring John Lennon, Jack MacGowran and Michael Crawford, and ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum,'' with Zero Mostel, Phil Silvers and Jack Gilford.
        He began his career in the Theater Workshop, headed by Joan Littlewood, which produced such satire as ''Oh! What a Lovely War.'' He had been a member of the Royal Shakespeare Company and had appeared at the National Theater. His was a familiar face on British television and on the stages of the West End, where he appeared recently in a revival of Robert Bolt's ''Man for All Seasons.''
        He is survived by his wife, Carmel Cryan, and three children.
      