
       Ferit Melen, a former Prime Minister and Defense Minister of Turkey, died Saturday of a heart condition, it was reported in Ankara. He was 82 years old.
        Ferit Melen, a former Prime Minister and Defense Minister of Turkey, died Saturday of a heart condition, it was reported in Ankara. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Melen entered government at the local level in 1931. Four decades later, he became Minister of Defense during one of modern Turkey's most violent periods, when the military struggled to control what Turks referred to as ''the anarchy.'' He served as Prime Minister in 1972 and 1973 and returned to the Defense Ministry for two more years in 1975.
        Fed up with the extremist kidnapings, killings and bank robberies that were plaguing the country, the army had toppled the conservative Justice Party Government of Prime Minister Suleiman Demirel in March 1971. It installed a ''controlled democracy'' to run Turkey that was, however, too weak to interfere with the army crackdown.
        The campaign eventually succeeded, but only after a state of emergency, martial law and secretive courts-martial for thousands of people charged with engaging in terrorism to impose a Soviet-backed Communist regime. The Draconian countermeasures and harsh punishment, including executions, aroused international outrage - as well as fist-fights in Turkey's National Assembly - before a degree of normalcy returned.
        What was supposed to be a coalition Cabinet ''above parties'' underwent several reshuffles before Mr. Melen came to lead it as its fourth Prime Minister. Elected to Parliament in 1950
        Mr. Melen was born in Van in southeastern Turkey, the ancient cradle of Armenian civilization. He received a degree in political science at the University of Ankara and returned home for a brief stint in the district administration before starting a career with the Ministry of Finance in 1933.
        He entered politics in 1950, winning election to Parliament from Van as a member of the left-leaning Republican People's Party, He served until 1964, when he was elected to the Senate. He was appointed Minister of Finance in 1962 and held that post until 1965.
        With four dozen other colleagues, Mr. Melen resigned from his party in 1967 over a policy dispute and became a founding member and vice president of the National Reliance Party, now part of the Republican Reliance Party.
        He gave up the Prime Minister's post after the 1973 election to Bulent Ecevit of the Republican People's Party. Its five Ministers had pulled out of the Cabinet months earlier, charging that the governing coalition had turned too far to the right.
        Mr. Melen was married and had two children. There was no report about survivors.
      