
       Lawrence Brown, a trombonist with the Duke Ellington orchestra for several decades, died Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old. Mr. Brown had recently had a stroke, his brother, Harold, said.
        Lawrence Brown, a trombonist with the Duke Ellington orchestra for several decades, died Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old. Mr. Brown had recently had a stroke, his brother, Harold, said.
        Lawrence Brown was one of three notable trombone players in the Ellington orchestra. The other two were Joe (Tricky Sam) Nanton, known for a growling trombone, and Juan Tizol, who wrote ''Caravan'' with Duke Ellington. Mr. Brown's strong suits were ballads and jazz, each played with gospel roots. A composition that displayed his talent effectively was ''Rose of the Rio Grande.''
        Beginning his professional career at age 19 in Pasadena, Calif., where he grew up, Mr. Brown worked with several California ensembles. He became house trombonist at San Sebastian's Cotton Club in Culver City, Calif., and worked there with Les Hite. Joined Ellington in '32
        Mr. Brown signed with Duke Ellington in 1932 and remained with the band until 1951. Then he joined an Ellington alumnus, Johnny Hodges, in Mr. Hodges' septet. After four years Mr. Hodges returned to the Ellington orchestra, but Mr. Brown continued to work as a freelance musician, leading his own small group from time to time and doing studio work for CBS, among others. In 1960, he rejoined the Ellington orchestra.
        Until 1970, Mr. Brown worked regularly with the Ellington group. He occasionally joined other musicians and he can be heard on non-Ellington recordings with Jimmy Rushing, Lionel Hampton, Ruby Braff, the Metronome All Stars and Buck Clayton.
        Mr. Brown stopped performing in 1970 and eventually moved back to California, where he became a recording agent for Local 47 of the musicians union.
        Mr. Brown was born in Lawrence, Kan., and studied piano, tuba and violin before taking up the trombone. His father was a minister, and Mr. Brown's first professional appearance was said to be at a Mother's Day service in Los Angeles at Aimee Semple McPherson's church before an audience of 6,000.
        Mr. Brown's marriages to Fredi Washington, the actress, and Dorothea Bundrant ended in divorce. He is survived by his brother.
      