
       Hans K. Maeder, a maverick in secondary education who briefly headed the Walden School in New York City before founding his own preparatory school in the Berkshire Hills, died of prostate cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.
        Hans K. Maeder, a maverick in secondary education who briefly headed the Walden School in New York City before founding his own preparatory school in the Berkshire Hills, died of prostate cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Maeder's nonprofit school, Stockbridge, which he and his wife, Ruth, opened in 1949 in Interlaken, Mass., was long considered one of the more progressive private boarding schools in New England in an era when such institutions catered mostly to the children of well-to-do white families.
        Stockbridge, Mr. Maeder declared, would be interracial, nondenominational and international in outlook, ideals that he said had been inspired by the United Nations Charter. The school dramatized its commitment by flying the United Nations flag just below the American flag. The curriculum included a junior year abroad, and for several years, Stockbridge operated a branch in Corcelles, Switzerland.
        Mr. Maeder retired as the director of Stockbridge in 1971, and five years later the school, beset by declining enrollments and increasing debts, closed its doors. Search for a Better World
        Among the better known Stockbridge alumni is the singer Arlo Guthrie, whose celebrated arrest for littering by the Stockbridge police occurred a short time after his graduation. The episode inspired Mr. Guthrie to write the song ''Alice's Restaurant'' - Alice Brock had been the school librarian - and it helped begin his career.
        ''Stockbridge was inspired by a search for a better world,'' Mr. Maeder told a gathering of parents and alumni in 1968. ''Those of us who have been at Stockbridge for the last 20 years were willing to pay the price, and sometimes it was a very tough price to pay.
        ''We had enemies in the neighborhood, we had parents who didn't trust what we were doing, we had teachers who found that they could not live and work here. But today we have a group of alumni of whom we are proud, not because they make a lot of money - although some do - but because they are the kind of people to whom we can turn whenever we need a human being who will understand.''
        Mr. Maeder was born on Dec. 29, 1909, in Hamburg, Germany, the third of three children in a prosperous middle-class family. As a youth, he broke with his father, whom he described as a passionate nationalist and anti-Semite. He became active in the anti-Nazi underground, and fled Germany in 1933, traveling extensively, finally reaching Hawaii from the Philippines in 1941.
        In 1945, Mr. Maeder joined the faculty of Walden, and became its director in 1947. He left the school to found Stockbridge.
        His wife died in 1976. He is survived by his sister, Renata Schwartz of Hamburg, and a stepson, David Gordon of Manhattan.
      