
       John D. J. Moore, a lawyer and executive and a former United States Ambassador to Ireland, died of bone cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old.
        John D. J. Moore, a lawyer and executive and a former United States Ambassador to Ireland, died of bone cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Moore was named Ambassador by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969 and served six years, the longest tenure of any American envoy to Ireland. He negotiated the aviation agreement that brought to fruition a 20-year effort by the United States to obtain landing rights for American carriers in Ireland.
        Mr. Moore, a lifelong New Yorker, was a graduate of Yale and the Yale Law School. He practiced law with the firm of White & Case before becoming assistant corporation counsel under Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia and an assistant district attorney under Frank S. Hogan.
        Mr. Moore later joined W. R. Grace & Company and became a vice president at its headquarters in New York. He traveled extensively in Latin America and Europe and was chairman of the Latin American committee of the Business Council and vice chairman of the Council of the Americas. Adviser to Nixon
        Mr. Moore received the Order of Merit of Equador and the Gold Insigniaof the Pan American Society of the United States. In 1958 and 1959, he accompanied then Vice President Nixon to South America and the Soviet Union, serving as an adviser.
        He was also a founder and first chairman of the Ireland-United States Council, which promotes economic relations between the two countries. His longtime interest in problems of the mentally ill led to his service as vice president of the American Schizophrenia Foundation and to his establishment in 1960 of the Family Care Foundation for the Mentally Ill.
        Mr. Moore's wife, the former Mary Foote, died in 1975. He is survived by a son, John D., of San Marino, Calif.; four daughters, Dr. Anne Lisio and Martha Battles, both of New York, Julia Bartholomew, of Philadelphia, and Mary, of Boston; a brother, Richard, of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
      