
       Hans Wilhelm Frei, whose studies of narrative in the Bible have had a major impact on recent theological discussion, died of a stroke yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in North Haven, Conn.
        Hans Wilhelm Frei, whose studies of narrative in the Bible have had a major impact on recent theological discussion, died of a stroke yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in North Haven, Conn.
        The work of Mr. Frei, the John A. Hoober Professor of Religious Studies at Yale University, laid the foundation for a decisive change in biblical interpretation, according to his Yale colleague, George Lindbeck, a professor of historical theology.
        In ''The Eclipse of Biblical Narrative: A Study in Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century Hermeneutics,'' published by Fortress Press in 1974, Mr. Frei showed how modern biblical scholarship, in abandoning older ways of reading Scripture, came to neglect the narrative form that was an essential element of the biblical message.
        A year later, in ''The Identity of Jesus Christ: the Hermeneutical Bases of Dogmatic Theology,'' also published by Fortress Press, Mr. Frei proposed an understanding of Jesus based on the rediscovery of this narrative element.
        His work helped stir the current interest in using the tools of literary criticism, in addition to the more familiar techniques of historical investigation, to understand the Bible. The popularity of ''narrative theology,'' which reflects the conviction that certain truths can be conveyed only in story form, owes much to Mr. Frei's writings.
        Mr. Frei was born in 1922 in Breslau, Germany, arrived in the United States in 1938 and received his Bachelor of Divinity degree and Ph.D. from Yale. An Episcopal priest, he joined the Department of Religious Studies there in 1957.
        Mr. Frei is survived by his wife, the former Geraldine Frost Nye; two sons, Thomas, of New Haven and Jonathan, Tecate, Calif.; a daughter, Emily McGalliard of Trumbull, Conn.; a sister, Marianne Darrow of Berkeley, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      