
       Henry C. Wallich, a longtime member of the Federal Reserve Board and its leading authority on international finance, died today at George Washington University Hospital. He was 74 years old and had been in failing health since undergoing surgery for a brain tumor in 1985.
        Henry C. Wallich, a longtime member of the Federal Reserve Board and its leading authority on international finance, died today at George Washington University Hospital. He was 74 years old and had been in failing health since undergoing surgery for a brain tumor in 1985.
        Mr. Wallich's diverse career as an academician, journalist, Treasury official, Presidential adviser and central banker was marked by an insistence on intellectual rigor and an implacable opposition to inflation.
        Throughout his 12-year tenure as a Federal Reserve governor he was the board's most persistent voice for price stability, and his periodic dissents from policy decisions nearly always reflected this concern.
        ''Like burglary, inflation is an extralegal form of redistribution,'' Mr. Wallich once wrote. ''Unfortunately, many economists share with politicians the habit of always regarding inflation as the lesser of any alternative evils.'' A Thinker and a Connoisseur
        Witty, precise, extraordinarily diligent and somewhat austere, Henry Christopher Wallich seemed equally at ease with international central bankers and reporters. Most of his colleagues regarded him as one of the foremost economic thinkers of his generation. He was also known for a passion for fine wine and cigars.
        Mr. Wallich was appointed by President Nixon in 1974 as one of the Fed's seven governors. His term, which was to have expired last January, was cut short when he had to resign in late 1986 because of poor health.
        Mr. Wallich was perhaps best known to the public as an economic columnist for Newsweek magazine from 1965 until he joined the Federal Reserve Board. A former academic colleague once described him as ''a conservative Keynesian who hated inflation.''
        One of Mr. Wallich's most imaginative ideas was a proposal he espoused in 1971 with Sidney Weintraub, a liberal economist, for a tax-based incomes policy, or TIP. Their plan, devised to curb inflation, called for an income-tax surcharge to be levied against companies raising their average wage level above specified inflation-related guideposts. The Wallich-Weintraub plan never became law.
        Mr. Wallich was born in Berlin on June 10, 1914, to Paul and Hildegard Rehrmann Wallich. His father and paternal grandfather were both bankers. The younger Mr. Wallich had a brother, Walter, and a sister, Cristel. Both are now dead. #2 Years in South America After studying at Munich University and at Oriel College, Oxford University, Mr. Wallich began his business career in South America in 1933. ''It was arranged,'' he wrote years later, ''that I would work for a Buenos Aires exporting firm which already had done business with my grandfather.'' He spent two years in the export business in Argentina and Uruguay, learning the importance of adequate foreign exchange reserves, and as a banker in Chile.
        He came to New York in 1935 to work for the Chemical Bank, and the next year he joined a securities firm, Hackney, Hopkinson & Sutphen. While working on Wall Street he studied economics at New York University and earned a master's degree from Harvard University.
        In 1941 Mr. Wallich began 10 years at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he became chief of its foreign research division. While at the bank he continued his studies, earning a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1944, the year he became an American citizen.
        His doctoral dissertation, he recalled, drew upon his experience in South America with the problems of a ''small open economy'' dependent on exports.
        He joined the faculty of Yale University in 1951. Campus and Capital Posts
        Except for stints in Washington in the later years of the Eisenhower Administration as an assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury and as a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, he remained a Yale economics professor until joining the Federal Reserve Board in 1974.
        For many years he was the board's main emissary to the Bank for International Settlements, the institution in Basel, Switzerland, that serves the world's central banks.
        Mr. Wallich was also credited with raising the standards of the Federal Reserve's research department, now considered among the world's best, and he insisted that its work be incorporated into the Fed's decision-making process.
        His special interests included the economies of developing countries in the third world. He worked as a consultant to officials of Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Cuba in the pre-Castro era. He also served on the advisory board of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1972-73 and was the United States representative on the United Nations Experts Panel on the Economic Consequences of the Arms Race.
        Mr. Wallich took a particular interest in theories of portfolio management. He believed that securities markets were highly efficient and that the key to investment success was proper diversification rather than poring over corporate financial statements. He enjoyed chiding Wall Street friends with the argument that they could do just as well in the market by throwing darts at stock tables. Wine-Tasting Parties
        At Yale he was known for his wine-tasting parties, and he restocked his extensive wine cellar on trips to Washington, where prices were lower. He went to the trouble, friends said, of obtaining documents from state officials that made it legal for him to haul large quantities of wine in the trunk of his car.
        In 1950 Mr. Wallich married Mable Inness Brown, an economist from Floral Park, L.I. They met while both were working at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Sometimes they collaborated in economic research and writing.
        Before joining the Federal Reserve Board, Mr. Wallich was a director of the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, the United Illuminating Company, the Lionel Edie Capital Fund and the First New Haven National Bank, among other institutions.
        He also served in the early 1960's as an editorial writer for The Washington Post, and he contributed to other publications, including The New York Times Magazine, Forbes, The Journal of Commerce and Dun's Review, as well as Newsweek.
        His most-praised book was ''The Cost of Freedom,'' published in 1960.
        Mr. Wallich was a member of the New Haven Lawn Club, the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences and the University Club of Washington.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Wallich is survived by his mother, Hildegard, of Shelton, Conn., and three children, Christine Wallich of McLean, Va., Anna H. Kehoe of Bedford, N.H., and Paul I. Wallich of New York City.
      