
       Harold S. Mohler, former chief executive of the Hershey Foods Corporation, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, Pa. He was 69 years old and lived in Hershey.
        Harold S. Mohler, former chief executive of the Hershey Foods Corporation, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, Pa. He was 69 years old and lived in Hershey.
        Mr. Mohler, a graduate of Lehigh University who majored in engineering there, joined Hershey Foods in 1948. He was named assistant to the president in 1957, vice president in 1962 and president three years later. He became chairman of the board in 1974 and held that position until he retired in 1984.
        While he was associated with the corporation, it diversified and acquired companies that dealt with other products besides chocolate, including Delmonico Foods, Georgio Macaroni, H. B. Reese Candy, Y&S Candy, Skinner Macaroni and Friendly Ice Cream.
        At the time of Mr. Mohler's retirement, the acquired companies accounted for over $700 million in annual sales, about five times what the original Hershey Chocolate Corporation was selling when he joined it in 1948. Total sales at Hershey Foods, as the company came call itself, amounted to nearly $1.7 billion in sales in 1984 when he stepped down. Developed Hershey Advertising
        In 1969, Mr. Mohler was also instrumental in changing a 66-year-old company tradition of not advertising, and he helped develop a consumer advertising program for its confectionery and grocery products. These decisions were said to have brought the company into the forefront of modern advertising and marketing.
        Mr. Mohler was involved with many Hershey-related enterprises. Most recently he was chairman of the Hershey Bank and a director of the Hershey Entertainment and Resort Company. Over the years, he received awards including honorary doctor of laws degrees from Lehigh University in 1975 and by Elizabethtown College in 1978.
        He was a former chairman of the Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry and was recently named Engineer of the Year by the Harrisburg Chapter Society of Professional Engineers.
        In World War II, Mr. Mohler served as a navigator in the 15th Air Force, a bomber group in Italy, and completed 23 missions. He was a prisoner of war in Germany for a year and was awarded the Air Medal with two Oak Leaf clusters and the Purple heart.
        He is survived by his wife, Melba Mohler, of Hershey; a son, Jeffrey, of Bethlehem, Pa.; two daughters, Susan Schrectengast, of Camp Hill, Pa., and Julie Leonard, of Hershey; and five grandchildren.
      