
       John J. Williams, a Republican Senator from Delaware for 24 years, died of heart and respiratory failure Monday night in a hospital in Lewes, Del. He was 83 years old and had been in poor health for some time.
        John J. Williams, a Republican Senator from Delaware for 24 years, died of heart and respiratory failure Monday night in a hospital in Lewes, Del. He was 83 years old and had been in poor health for some time.
        A small-town dealer in chicken feed who turned to politics when his business prospered, Mr. Williams, was known for his efforts to battle corruption and waste in the Federal government.
        Mr. Williams's four-term tenure in the Senate, from 1947 to 1971, was longer than that of any Senator from Delaware.
        The targets of his painstaking investigations included Sherman Adams, the Assistant to the President in the Eisenhower Administration, whose ties to a Boston industrialist Mr. Williams found unseemly; and the grain industry, in which he uncovered evidence of illegal storage practices. I.R.S. Scandal
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Williams's disclosures of unlawful activity in the Internal Revenue Service led to 125 convictions for bribery, extortion and other crimes.
        Mr. Williams was also known for his shy demeanor, his tendency to mumble during important speeches, and his lack of interest in the Washington social scene. Asked in 1969 about his refusal to attend political cocktail parties, he said: ''For one thing, you can't go out every night and do your work. For another, we just plain don't care for it. Neither my wife nor I drink, and you can't hear what anybody is saying.''
        Mr. Williams prided himself on his honesty and integrity, and in 1957, was involved in a short squabble with the Treasury Department when he attempted to return $1,500 of his office stationery allowance. At first, the department refused to accept the money.
        Born on a farm in 1904, the 9th of 11 children, Mr. Williams borrowed a few hundred dollars after high school and entered the chicken-feed business. His company flourished, and he decided to run for the Senate in 1946.
        After retiring from the Senate, Mr. Williams returned to Delaware, settling in the small town of Millsboro and devoting himself to real estate and farming.
        He is survived by his wife, Elsie; his daughter, Blanche Baker, of Millsboro; a sister, Blanche Smith, of Salisbury, Md.; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      