
       Harry McCabe, a former president of New York City's Offtrack Betting Corporation, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Randall Manor, S.I. He was 68 years old.
        Harry McCabe, a former president of New York City's Offtrack Betting Corporation, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Randall Manor, S.I. He was 68 years old.
        When he retired last year after five years as the chief of the city-owned gaming parlors, one writer described him as looking ''like Stubby Kaye preparing to sing 'Fugue for Tinhorns,' '' a salute to the perpetual confidence of horse players.
        A career civil servant for 40 years, he was sent in 1970 from the city's budget office to help set up OTB. He was chosen for the assignment when Howard J. Samuels, the first OTB president, asked Mayor John V. Lindsay for someone who knew something about government and racing.
        Mr. McCabe was a longtime fan of the sport, and as a principal management analyst in City Hall in the 1950's, he conducted an investigation into charges of race-fixing at harness tracks. The inquiry began with a review of race-track stock transfers and whether they violated state parimutuel laws. Rose Through the Ranks
        Mr. McCabe was supposed to work at the newly formed OTB for six months, but he stayed 17 years, until his retirement. In 1982 he became the first president of OTB to have risen through the ranks of the organization.
        Mr. McCabe was born in Manhattan on May 11, 1920. He graduated from Fordham University in 1941 with a bachelor's degree in finance. He attended Fordham Law School in 1946 and 1947, and the New York University Graduate School of Public Administration in 1949 and 1950.
        He served as a second lieutenant in the Army during World War II, and was active in the Army Reserve until 1980.
        During his years in charge of OTB, he lobbied for simulcasting of races in OTB offices, something the race tracks eventually agreed to. OTB also opened restaurant parlors to attract affluent bettors and cut the number of betting shops from 148 to 109, saving manpower. After six years of steadily falling city profits, fiscal 1987 produced an $8 million increase over 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean; three sons, Robert A., of East Patchogue, L.I., and Thomas H. and Harry J., both of Staten Island; a sister, Catherine, of Portsmouth, R.I., and two grandsons.
      