
       Burton Benjamin, former vice president and director of CBS News, and a longtime documentary producer who wrote the report about the preparation of the controversial CBS television documentary critical of Gen. William C. Westmoreland, died of a brain tumor last night at his home in Scarborough, N.Y.
        Burton Benjamin, former vice president and director of CBS News, and a longtime documentary producer who wrote the report about the preparation of the controversial CBS television documentary critical of Gen. William C. Westmoreland, died of a brain tumor last night at his home in Scarborough, N.Y. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Benjamin was the author of ''Fair Play: CBS, General Westmoreland, and How a Television Documentary Went Wrong'' a newly published book about his report, and the need for higher broadcasting standards. It carries an introduction by his longtime colleague, Walter Cronkite.
        In a review of the book that appeared yesterday in The New York Times Book Review, Prof. Ruth Bayard Smith, of the University of Michigan, concluded: '' 'Fair Play' is an important book - one that will fascinate general readers as well as watchers of the media and First Amendment.'' Directed News Division
        In his 29 years in television with CBS News as a writer, producer and executive, Mr. Benjamin rose to be director of the news division from 1978 to 1981. Between 1975 and 1978, he served as executive producer of the CBS ''Evening News.'' He was a senior executive producer, based in New York, from 1968 to 1975 and held the same title again from 1981 to 1985, when he retired.
        In 1986 Mr. Benjamin became a senior fellow at the Gannett Center for Media Studies at Columbia University.
        While his name appeared on the screen hundreds of times as a documentary film producer, he perhaps became best known to the general public as the author of the Benjamin Report. It was made made public in 1983, following his internal investigation of the 1982 CBS documentary on the Vietnam War, ''The Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception.'' Westmoreland Libel Suit
        The program gave rise to a $120 million libel suit that General Westmoreland filed against the network. The general had been interviewed for the documentary, which concluded overall that, while he commanded United States forces in Vietnam, the general systematically understated the Communist military manpower there to President Johnson and to Congress.
        General Westmoreland, who denied these contentions in a press conference early in 1982, eventually abandoned the suit after lengthy court proceedings. In his report, Mr. Benjamin found the 90-minute program had been unbalanced and had broken various CBS guidelines concerning fairness.
        In a sternly worded summary, Mr. Benjamin wrote that the ''principal flaws'' had included ''coddling sympathetic witnesses,'' interviewing mainly witnesses who backed the program's principal contentions, and failing to demonstrate that there had indeed been a ''conspiracy'' to withhold data about Communist troop numbers. Broadcasting Standards
        The 59-page document also included parts of unedited transcripts of interviews for the broadcast in which interviewers appeared to be coaching witnesses. In addition, the report cited material that had been kept out of the program and might otherwise have undermined its main findings about the General's activities.
        The report was made public after the judge in the Westmoreland libel case, Pierre N. Leval, agreed it should be given to the general, who had demanded it. The judge found that the network did not have the right to keep the report confidential, as it had contended, because it had earlier disclosed parts of it.
        Mr. Benjamin observed in 1985, when he left CBS, that he hoped he would be remembered less for the report than for for his work on television documentaries. Down the decades, he produced numerous programs for CBS, often in collaboration with Mr. Cronkite. 'The Twentieth Century'
        After the new management of CBS took over a few years ago, Mr. Benjamin was invited to become the president of CBS News, but he declined and decided to write a book about elevating the standards of broadcasting news and documentaries.
        Mr. Benjamin became a television writer in 1955. He was executive producer of the CBS News series ''The Twentieth Century'' in 1957, its successor, ''The 21st Century'' in 1967, and of a series on the 50th anniversary of World War I. He was also executive producer of the CBS ''Evening News,'' from 1975 to 1978.
        Over the years, he won numerous prizes and citations for his television work, including eight Emmy Awards, a Peabody Award, two Ohio State University Awards, and the American Bar Association Silver Gavel Award. Served in the Coast Guard
        Burton Richard Benjamin was born Oct. 9, 1917, in Cleveland, the son of Sam Benjamin and Ruth Bernstein Benjamin. He earned a B.A. degree at the University of Michigan in 1939.
        He worked for United Press and the Newspaper Enterprise Association in Cleveland and New York from 1939 to 1946, with time out for World War II service in the Coast Guard, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant.
        Mr. Benjamin became a writer and producer of documentary films for RKO-Pathe in New York from 1946 to 1955. TV News in 'Enormous Flux'
        In an article that he wrote for the New York Times in 1986, Mr. Benjamin expressed a somewhat bleak view of the condition of network television news, which he said was then ''in a state of enormous flux.'' He said:
        ''The news directors of some larger local stations are saying: Just give us the money and we can do without the network news. Some of the dreams that many of us in the business used to have - such as an hour newscast - are dead.''
        ''The hour documentary is comatose,'' he said. ''The instant special is rarely seen, except in times of great crisis. The new corporate owners of the networks have invoked a kind of austerity that has hit the news divisions especially hard.''
        Over the years, Mr. Benjamin also taught at the University of Michigan and at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. He served as a trustee of the Scarborough School.
        Mr. Benjamin married Aline L. Wolff, a book editor and critic, in 1942.
        He is survived by his wife, of Scarborough, N.Y.; two daughters, Anne Benjamin, of New York City, and Dr. Jane Benjamin, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and a brother, James Benjamin, of North Tarrytown, N.Y. A memorial service will be held on Sept. 30 in Manhattan at a place to be announced.
      