
       Walter P. Chrysler Jr., one of the country's leading art collectors and benefactors whose reputation as a shrewd judge of talent was tainted by suspicions that he knowingly attained forged works, died of cancer Saturday at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 79 years old.
        Walter P. Chrysler Jr., one of the country's leading art collectors and benefactors whose reputation as a shrewd judge of talent was tainted by suspicions that he knowingly attained forged works, died of cancer Saturday at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Chrysler, whose father, Walter Sr., founded the Chrysler Corporation, devoted much of his life to building a multimillion-dollar collection of paintings that was housed at the Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences in Norfolk, which was later renamed the Chrysler Museum. But he made substantial forays into other collecting fields such as stamps, rare books and glassworks. The glass collection at the Chysler Museum has about 8,000 pieces. He also produced a movie, ''The Joe Louis Story,'' released in 1953.
        Known as an innovative collector who moved quickly, Mr. Chrysler made huge profits from early investments. In the 1970's he sold for $1.6 million a Picasso that he had bought 30 years earlier for $450. Bought a Renoir for $350
        John Russell, writing in The New York Times, said Mr. Chrysler was not ''the kind of collector who refines and refines until he has just one or two items that sum up a lifetime of curiosity.''
        He was born in Oelwein, Iowa, on May 27, 1909, and he grew up on the family estate on the north shore of Long Island. He first displayed a keen eye for art at the age of 14, when, as a student at the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut, he purchased a Renoir for $350. The painting, a landscape with an inch-high nude, drew disapproval from a supervisor who destroyed the piece. Later at Dartmouth University he began an art magazine with Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        After attending Dartmouth, Mr. Chrysler toured Europe where he met several popular artists of the day, including Picasso, Braque, Gris, Matisse, Leger and others. He later also acquired signifcant works by Charles Burchfield, John Marin and Thomas Hart Benton.
        He helped in the development of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, and some of his works were exhibited at the Mellon Library and the Detroit Institute of Arts. Reputation Suffered
        But over the last 26 years, Mr. Chrysler's standing in the art world suffered. His celebrated art collection, then housed in his own museum in Provincetown, Mass., caused a controversy in the art community in 1962 when it was put on exhibition at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa.
        The Art Dealers Association of America, formed to uphold ethical standards in the art market, asserted that 90 of the 187 paintings on display were fakes. Among those cited were works purported to be by Van Gogh, Matisse, Bonnard and Paul Klee. Most of the suspect works had been purchased over a two-year period from two New York dealers, Joly Hartert and H. B. Yotnakparian. Picasso Discovers 'False' Works
        Before that, when Mr. Chrysler offered six of his Picassos for the artist's 80th-birthday exhibition in New York, Picasso himself was shown photographs of the works. The artist picked out two and wrote across both of them ''faux'' or ''false.''
        Mr. Chrysler defended his acquisitions, saying, ''I don't make any claim for their being the greatest examples of each artist, but we can't look at masterpieces all the time.'' He never pressed a case against the dealers, reportedly because he was concerned that he might lose the tax-exempt status of his museum, a status which provides that works on view must be bona fide. But when the collection was transferred to what is now the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk, the forged works had been removed.
        Later, according to Robin Maurice, public information officer for the Norfolk museum, when Dr. David W. Steadman became director of the museum, ''he weeded out any works that were suspect.'' He was considered meticulous when it came to the finances of the museums that bore the family name, first the museum in Provincetown, Mass., and beginning in 1971, the museum in Norfolk.
        Mr. Chrysler is survived by several nieces and nephews. Mrs. Chrysler, the former Jean Esther Outland, died in 1982. A memorial service will be held Tuesday at the Church of The Good Shepard in Norfolk. Burial will be Wednesday in the family plot in Tarrytown, N.Y. A memorial service will be held in Manhattan on Thursday at St. Bartholomew's Church.
      