
       Luis W. Alvarez, winner of the 1968 Nobel Prize in Physics who was a member of the team that developed the atomic bomb, died yesterday in Berkeley, Calif., after a long bout with cancer. He was 77 years old.
        Luis W. Alvarez, winner of the 1968 Nobel Prize in Physics who was a member of the team that developed the atomic bomb, died yesterday in Berkeley, Calif., after a long bout with cancer. He was 77 years old.
        From splitting atoms to theories about the extinction of dinosaurs, Dr. Alvarez contributed to extraordinarily diverse enterprises in his career. He won the Nobel Prize for his use of bubble chambers to detect new subatomic particles. He also developed a type of radar to aid aircraft landings and proved that there were no hidden chambers in the Chephren pyramid in Egypt by using radiation from space to scan its interior.
        Most recently he joined his son, Walter, in vehement support of their controversial theory that one or more extraterrestrial impacts killed off the dinosaurs and hundreds of other species 65 million years ago. 'Creative and Inventive' Mind
        Dr. Marvin L. Goldberger, director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., a former president of the California Institute of Technology, characterized Dr. Alvarez as ''one of the most imaginative, creative and inventive scientists I ever encountered.''
        ''He thought all the time about real problems and then ways to deal with them,'' Dr. Goldberger said.
        Dr. Alvarez died of complications from a succession of recent operations for cancer of the esophagus, according to a statement issued by the University of California at Berkeley, where Dr. Alvarez worked most of his life. Colleagues said he had also had a benign brain tumor removed last year. Ridicule for Critics
        Luis Walter Alvarez, a tall man with commanding mien, was sometimes outspokenly critical of those opposing his views. In recent interviews, for example, he had ridiculed skeptics of his theory about the extinction of dinosaurs.
        ''I don't like to say bad things about paleontologists, but they're not very good scientists,'' Dr. Alvarez said earlier this year. ''They're more like stamp collectors.''
        In the early 1940's Dr. Alvarez and Lawrence H. Johnson, an associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, created a radar beam narrow enough for someone on the ground to help an aircraft blinded by fog to land. A result was the ground-controlled approach system, which is still in wide use at military airfields.
        In the war years, he was a group leader at Los Alamos, N.M., working on the atomic bomb. When the first bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, he rode in an aircraft accompanying the Enola Gay, which dropped that weapon. After the war, he returned to the University of California at Berkeley, where he began the work that won him a Nobel Prize. Nobel-Winning Research
        This involved the use of chambers cooled sufficiently so that hydrogen within them became a liquid. If the hydrogen was on the verge of boiling, a fragment passing through the chamber from an atom smasher would leave a trail of bubbles. The nature of the particle could be deduced from such characteristics of the trail as its response to a magnetic field.
        While in Stockholm to receive the 1968 Nobel Prize in Physics for his bubble chamber development, he entertained the local press with an account of his efforts to learn if there was a chamber hidden within the Chephren pyramid at Giza in Egypt. Chambers once laden with treasure had been found in other pyramids, but not this one.
        While the rock of the pyramid absorbed some cosmic rays, radiation from space, detectors placed under the pyramid, in cooperation with Egyptian authorities, would show a ''bright spot'' where there was a chamber and therefore less stone. None were found.
        Dr. Richard Muller, a protege and physicist at Berkeley, writing about Dr. Alvarez's pyramid work, said: ''Luie's pyramid project was an adventure, science being used for exploration. He believed that he had inherited the legacy of the great explorers. He had read and reread the journals of Sir Richard Burton, the first non-Muslim to enter Mecca, and of Capt. James Cook, explorer of the Pacific.'' Extinction of Dinosaurs
        The theory about dinosaur extinctions arose from his son's geological work in Gubbio, Italy, in the 1970's. He found an iridium-enriched layer of sediment little more than an inch thick. The formations were laid down between the Cretaceous and the Tertiary periods of geologic time, 65 million years ago.
        Because iridium is abundant in meteorites but rare on earth, Dr. Alvarez and his son developed the theory that an asteroid or a comet struck the earth, causing the mass extinctions. Critics of the impact hypothesis have argued that iridium also occurs in volcanic debris.
        Those favoring an impact argued that one or a succession of such events enveloped the earth in a cloud sufficiently persistent to chill the planet and cause widespread extinctions. Perhaps this happened, they said, when periodic returns of Nemesis, a hypothetical star in a wide orbit around the Sun, disrupted the outer comets and sent some raining upon Earth.
        Dr. Alvarez undertook a variety of tests that he thought verified the impact theory. He ridiculed as unscientific the arguments of some paleontologists that the extinctions were gradual and that some species of dinosaur survived well into the Tertiary Period. Thriving on Big Risks
        In the book about his work with Dr. Alvarez on the dinosaur-extinction research, Dr. Muller described his mentor's style as a scientist: ''Alvarez's whole approach to physics was that of an entrepreneur, taking big risks by building large new projects in the hope of large rewards, although his pay was academic rather than financial. He had drawn around him a group of young physicists anxious to try out the exciting ideas he was proposing.''
        ''Alvarez seemed to care less about the way the picture in the puzzle would look, when everything fit together, than about the fun of looking for pieces that fit,'' Dr. Muller continued. ''He loved nothing more than doing something that everybody else thought impossible. His designs were clever, and usually exploited some little-known principle that everyone else had forgotten.''
        Dr. Alavarez was also an expert on magnetic monopoles, which are hypothetical particles with only one magnetic pole. But he was indignant at some claims that magnetic monopoles had been observed. There are theoretical grounds for believing in the existence of the particles, but despite occasional reports, no convincing evidence of their existence has ever been found. Debate on Hydrogen Bomb
        Dr. Alavarez also generated controversy in 1953, when a hearing was held in Washington on the loyalty of J. Robert Oppenheimer, who was in charge of the laboratory at Los Alamos that developed the atomic bomb. Dr. Alvarez agreed to testify, despite a recommendation against it from his superior, Dr. Ernest Rutherford.
        In his testimony, he supported the proposal of Dr. Edward Teller to proceed with development of a hydrogen bomb. But in his autobiography, published last year, he said he told the inquiry that opposition to the plan by Dr. Oppenheimer was ''in no way related to his loyalty to his country, of which I had no doubt.''
        In addition to his son, Walter, he is survived by his wife, Janet Landis Alvarez, and his children, Jean, Donald and Helen. A brother, Robert, and sister, Bernice Brownson, live in Foster City, Calif. Another sister, Gladys Alvarez Mead, lives in Berkeley. His previous marriage to Geraldine Smithwick of Chicago ended in divorce.
        Correction:  September 3, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        In addition, the obituary omitted some biographical material, which follows:
        Dr. Alvarez was born in San Francisco, where his father, Walter, was a physician. The senior Dr. Alvarez became a researcher at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota and, after retiring from the clinic, wrote a syndicated newspaper column offering medical advice.
        Luis Alvarez majored in physics as an undergraduate at the University of Chicago, where he also obtained his doctorate in 1936. He then joined the faculty at the University of California in Berkeley, where he remained almost continuously except during the war years.
      