
       Oren Lee Staley, the first president of the National Farmers Organization, a group that grew out of the turbulence of farm price protests of the 1950's to become a strong advocate for growers, died at a local hospital Monday. He was 65 years old.
        Oren Lee Staley, the first president of the National Farmers Organization, a group that grew out of the turbulence of farm price protests of the 1950's to become a strong advocate for growers, died at a local hospital Monday. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Staley had suffered a skull fracture when he slipped and fell on a pavement Sunday in St. Joseph, Mo.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Staley, who had resigned the presidency of the farmers group nine years ago, was earning his living principally as a real estate broker with offices in Kansas City, Mo., and St. Joseph, not far from the family farm where he was reared and where he had continued to live.
        Two years ago he told a reporter that the farm had fallen victim to the same agricultural maladies he had struggled against for most of his professional life: distressed prices for farm products and the high costs of borrowed money. But he was continuing to operate it under provisions of Chapter 11 of Federal bankruptcy law. Faced Own Farm Problems
        His farm problems were aggravated, Mr. Staley acknowledged at the time, by debts assumed in an ill-fated campaign in 1984 for the Democratic nomination to represent Missouri in the Senate. He ran third in the primary to Lieut. Gov. Harriet Woods.
        But it was as a charismatic farm leader through frequently stressful times that associates best remember Mr. Staley, a deeply religious teetotaler who was also good at poker. Associates say that he used his eloquence to good effect in negotiations aimed at improved prices for farmers.
        Mr. Staley was elected the president of the National Farmers Organization at its first national convention in 1955, and for years he ran its affairs out of a storefront office in Corning, Iowa, which is still its headquarters.
        The group had grown out of bitter demonstrations by Iowa farmers over sharp declines in farm prices under Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson, and for a time the group pursued its goals largely through protests. But in 1958 it changed its tactics. Pioneer in Protest Tactics ''There is no question that Oren Lee and the people around him pioneered the concept of withholding commodities from a plant'' as they sought to negotiate contracts for their farm members, said Chuck Frazier, Washington representative for the farmers group. ''By those tactics they were able to get some processors to come over to the side of the producers.''
        Mr. Staley had always been convinced, he once told a reporter, that farmers had reached a crossroads in the 1930's and taken the wrong turn. ''The farmer could have gone either way,'' he said. ''He could have organized like labor and fought for a price, or he could have turned to the Government for help. He chose the Government.''
        The organization now represents farmers and handles delivery of a variety of their products to processors around the country. It reportedly has 250,000 farm families as members, though the national office declines to disclose membership figures.
        Mr. Staley's reign as president was marked by rapid growth as well as financial strain as the organization sometimes was forced to borrowed money from its members to meet its needs. At one point in the late 1970's, as Willis Rowell, the group's historian, recalls in his book ''Mad as Hell,'' the group was under pressure from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which had filed a suit in Federal court seeking to force it into receivership.
        At the brink of a court hearing, Mr. Rowell says, Mr. Staley called a meeting in Des Moines, and thousands of farmers attended. When he had finished speaking, a Brinks truck was called in to receive the results - contributions of $5.2 million in cash, checks and canceled loan obligations.
        ''There is no question,'' said Roger Blobaum, a longtime consultant to the farmers group, ''that Oren Lee Staley was one of the great orators of the farm movement.''
        Mr. Staley is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Turner; his son, Gregg, a farmer at Rea; and two daughters, Cathy Staley, who operates the family realty office in St. Joseph, and Janice Lee Utley of Ft. Myers, Fla.
      