
       Dr. Joachim Prinz, a former president of the American Jewish Congress and a leader in civil-rights causes, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Brookside, N.J.
        Dr. Joachim Prinz, a former president of the American Jewish Congress and a leader in civil-rights causes, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Brookside, N.J.
        Dr. Prinz came to the United States in 1937 after he was driven out of his native Germany, where he had served as rabbi of the Jewish community in Berlin for 12 years. In 1939 he was named rabbi of Temple B'nai Abraham in Newark, the second oldest Jewish congregation in New Jersey, which he served until his retirement in 1977, although he continued to preach until a few years ago.
        Always outspoken on public issues, Dr. Prinz quickly established himself in his adopted country as a fighter against racism and bigotry. He was one of the founding chairmen of the 1963 March on Washington led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and he took part in many demonstrations for civil-rights causes in the New York metropolitan region and in the South.
        From 1958 to 1966, Dr. Prinz was president of the American Jewish Congress and he served two terms as chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, composed of 22 religious and lay bodies, which speaks out on political and social matters for the majority of American Jews. Preached Against Hitler
        Born in the village of Burkhardtsdorf in Saxony, the son of a well-to-do merchant, he attended the University of Berlin and received a Ph.D. from the University of Giessen. He was ordained a rabbi at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Breslau in 1925.
        After assuming the rabbinate in Berlin two years later, he began to speak out against the rising National Socialist movement, and after the Nazis assumed power in 1933, he urged the immediate mass migration of Jews to Palestine. He left his synagogue in Berlin to preach against the Hitler regime in other parts of Germany and elsewhere in Europe.
        When he was expelled from Germany after being repeatedly arrested by the Gestapo, Dr. Prinz was invited to the United States by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise of the Free Synagogue in New York, and he decided to settle here. His vocal advocacy of liberal causes in the early 1950's led to an accusation by the right-wing journal Common Sense that he was a Communist. He sued and won a court award of $30,000, a sum he was never able to collect.
        Dr. Prinz's first wife, the former Lucie Horovitz, died in 1931. He is survived by his second wife, the former Hilde Goldschmidt, whom he married in 1932; two sons, Jonathan, of Manhattan, and Michael, of Montclair, N.J.; three daughters, Lucie, of Cambridge, Mass., Deborah Prinz-Neher of Mendham, N.J., and Jo Seelmann of Milburn, N.J.; a sister, Thea Goldmann of Switzerland; 10 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
        A funeral is scheduled for Sunday at 11:30 A.M. at Temple B'nai Abraham, 300 East Northfield Avenue in Livingston.
      