
       Sir Sacheverell Sitwell, the poet, art critic and last of the Sitwell trio of literary siblings, died Saturday at his home, Weston Hall, 50 miles north of London, said his son, Francis Sitwell.
        Sir Sacheverell Sitwell, the poet, art critic and last of the Sitwell trio of literary siblings, died Saturday at his home, Weston Hall, 50 miles north of London, said his son, Francis Sitwell.
        Sir Sacheverell and his eccentric brother and sister, Sir Osbert and Dame Edith Sitwell, were for nearly 50 years the first family of British literature.
        They were regarded as the spearhead of the avant-garde during the 1920's, when they were known as the ''stormy petrels'' of the London scene.
        All three were prolific writers, and they gathered around them some of the most talented and creative people of the time.
        The composer William Walton lived in their London apartment for many years. He wrote music to accompany Edith's public readings of her poetry and composed ''Belshazzar's Feast'' in the stables at Weston Hall, near Towcester, Northamptonshire.
        ''He made such a frightful din on the piano we had to banish him from the house,'' Sir Sacheverell once said. Introduced Picasso
        The Sitwells organized the 1919 exhibition of French art that introduced Picasso and Modigliani to the British public. The siblings were parodied by Noel Coward, and their long-nosed, patrician faces invited caricature.
        Sacheverell Sitwell was born Nov. 15, 1897, the youngest child of the fourth baronet Sir George Sitwell.
        His first work was published in 1924 and over the next 56 years he produced 50 volumes of poems and at least 40 other books on travel, music, art and architecture.
        While his brother delighted in scandalizing literary circles with his exhibitionism, and his equally famous sister became renowned for her eccentricity of dress, Sacheverell preferred to spend his time traveling.
        He said in 1982 that he had fulfilled a desire of his youth to see every beautiful place and thing in the world. He rated the Italian city of Venice first and Angkor Wat in Cambodia second.
        In 1987, the writer Philip Purser called Sir Sacheverell ''an 18th-century gentleman who has seen all the world's masterpieces of art, visited its most beautiful countries, read its books, collected its stories, meditated on its curiosities.'' A Short-Term Columnist
        Sir Sacheverell wrote the famous Atticus column in London's Sunday Times for 10 months in 1950, commenting on amusing events in life around him. In 1981, the anonymous author of the column at the time interviewed him and quoted him as saying about himself and his siblings:
        ''We are undervalued. Obscurity is descending and the only honor that I have received is the freedom of the city of Lima for giving a lecture on Velazquez. But I am modestly confident about my long-term fame.''
        The Sitwell biographer John Lehmann said in 1969, ''Of the three, Dame Edith and Sir Osbert acquired the greatest fame, but there is no doubt that Sir Sacheverell was an extremely gifted writer, and towards the end of the 20's he wrote poetry that was quite outstanding.''
        Dame Edith died in 1964. When Sir Osbert died five years later, Sir Sacheverell became the sixth baronet.
        He continued to write until the death of his wife, Georgia, in 1980 after nearly 56 years of marriage.
        They had two sons and several grandchildren.
      