
       Vic Raschi, the big right-hander who joined Allie Reynolds and Eddie Lopat in pitching the Yankees to six World Series championships over eight seasons in the 1940's and the 1950's, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Groveland, N.Y., outside Geneseo. He was 69 years old and had lived in the rural upstate area on the shore of Lake
        Vic Raschi, the big right-hander who joined Allie Reynolds and Eddie Lopat in pitching the Yankees to six World Series championships over eight seasons in the 1940's and the 1950's, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Groveland, N.Y., outside Geneseo. He was 69 years old and had lived in the rural upstate area on the shore of Lake Canesus since he retired from baseball in 1955.
        Known as the Springfield Rifle, in honor of his hometown and his fastball, Mr. Raschi, a native of West Springfield, Mass., was the keystone of one of the most acclaimed pitching staffs in the history of major league baseball. The Big Three of Reynolds, Raschi and Lopat combined for 53 victories in 1949, 55 in 1950 and 59 in 1951.
        Mr. Raschi's five World Series victories, which put him in eighth place on the major league list, included such notable performances as his two-hit shutout of the Philadelphia Phillies in the first game of the 1950 Series. That came after Reynolds had scored a two-hit shutout of the Dodgers in the opening game of the 1949 series. Key Game Recalled
        But the game the former Yankee pitching coach Jim Turner remembered most fondly was the one Mr. Raschi pitched against the Red Sox on the last day of the 1949 season to win the American League pennant.
        It was the first of three consecutive 21-victory seasons for Mr. Raschi, who had a 120-50 record in his eight seasons with the Yankees and finished his 10-year career with a 132-66 record and a 3.72 earned run average.
        As the 85-year-old Mr. Turner recalled yesterday from his home in Nashville, Mr. Raschi was known both for his overpowering fastball and his surprising array of pitches, including an effective slider and changeup. ''He had good control for a power pitcher,'' Mr. Turner said.  Scouted as a Teen-Ager Mr. Raschi, whose full name was Victor John Angelo Raschi, was scouted by the Yankees as a teen-ager, and at the age of 14 signed a contract that guaranteed his college education. After starring in football, basketball and track in high school, he attended the College of William and Mary but was persuaded by the Yankees to drop out of school in 1941 to get some minor league experience before fufilling his military obligations.
        After serving as a physical trainer for the Army Air Force in World War II, Mr. Raschi played minor league ball under Mr. Turner in Portland, Ore., and under Lefty Gomez in Newark before being called up to the Yankees at the end of the 1946 season.
        When he balked at taking a pay cut after winning only 13 games against 6 losses in 1953, Mr. Raschi, who had become expendable with the return of the young Whitey Ford from military service, was sold after the season to the St. Louis Cardinals for $85,000. Although he won his first five starts with the Cardinals, he ended the season with an 8-9 record. He ended his career in 1955 after being traded to the Kansas City A's during the season.
        After his retirement, Mr. Raschi operated a liquor store in Geneseo, coached high school basketball, and taught physical education at Geneseo State Teachers College, which became the State University at Geneseo.
        In addition to his wife, Sally, he is survived by a sister, Chella Raschi, a brother, Eugene; three children, Victoria, William and Mitje Raschi, and two grandchildren.
      