
       John Ball, a music critic turned mystery writer, died of colon cancer Saturday in Encino (Calif.) Hospital. He was 77 years old.
        John Ball, a music critic turned mystery writer, died of colon cancer Saturday in Encino (Calif.) Hospital. He was 77 years old.
        The author of some 35 books translated into 17 languages, Mr. Ball's best-known book is ''In the Heat of the Night'' (1965), which won an Emmy from the Mystery Writers of America. The film version won the Academy Award as the best motion picture of 1967.
        That book introduced Virgil Tibbs, a detective from Pasadena who becomes involved in a murder case while visiting his mother in a Southern town. In the motion picture, starring Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger, Pasadena was changed to Philadelphia. Worked for Fortune Magazine
        Mr. Ball was born in Schenectady, N.Y. on July 8, 1911 but moved to Milwaukee as a child. After graduation from Carroll College in Waukesha, Wis., he joined Fortune magazine in 1937 and three years later became an assistant curator of the Hayden Planetarium. He wrote liner notes for Columbia record albums, became a music critic for the Brooklyn Eagle in 1946, and left in 1951 to review records for the New York World-Telegram.
        Although best known for his mystery novels, Mr. Ball - who had a commercial pilot's license, and who flew the Hump as a navigator with the Air Transport Command from 1942-45 -also wrote novels about aviation. These include ''Last Plane Out'' (1970) and ''Rescue Mission'' (1966), the latter about two pilots of the Civilian Air Patrol attempting to fly 78 evacuees away from a hurricane.
        In addition, Mr. Ball, who held a black belt in aikido, wrote books about the Orient. These include ''Miss 1001 Spring Blossoms'' (1968), ''Dragon Hotel (1968) and ''Five Pieces of Jade'' (1972). #2 New Books to Be Published Two new novels by Mr. Ball are scheduled for publication within the next few months: ''The Van'' (Bantam Books), a novel about a murder set in Los Angeles, and ''The Kiwi Target'' (Dodd, Mead & Company), a police procedural set in New Zealand.
        Mr. Ball was a vice president of the Mystery Writers of America and past president of its Los Angeles chapter. He was a founding member of the Sherlock Holmes Society in Los Angeles and a member of the Baker Street Irregulars, the Holmes fan club. He was also a member of the British Crime Writers.
        Mr. Ball is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Hamilton, and a son, John David Ball, both of Encino, where the family has lived 35 years.
        A memorial service will be held tomorrow at 1 P.M. in Forest Lawn in Hollywood, followed by a private burial.
      