
       Piero Fornasetti, an Italian artist and designer, died in Milan on Oct. 9. He was 74 years old.  His son, Barnaba, said in a telephone interview yesterday that Mr. Fornasetti had had ''heart problems.''
        Piero Fornasetti, an Italian artist and designer, died in Milan on Oct. 9. He was 74 years old.  His son, Barnaba, said in a telephone interview yesterday that Mr. Fornasetti had had ''heart problems.''
        Mr. Fornasetti was internationally known for his original and boldly graphic black-and-white ceramics and furniture that ran the gamut from coasters to multipanel screens - and included whimsical and decorative umbrella stands, trays, cabinets, chairs and china. Mr. Fornasetti worked with glass, fabric, porcelain and wood.
        Mr. Fornasetti's fanciful pieces were always witty and imaginative. In his motifs, he favored Piranesi-like engravings, the sun, moon and stars, playing cards, animals and surrealistic images. His famous series of Adam and Eve plates, in which each of the dozen plates in the set is printed with a different section of a human body, were considered both controversial and decorative. #11,000 Different Objects A prolific artist - by the 1960's, there were 11,000 different objects decorated with his signature illustrations - Mr. Fornasetti's popularity diminished in the 70's.
        But recently, there has been a renewed interest in his work and his trompe l'oeil motifs have inspired new fabrics and home furnishing accessories. A growing number of collectors are seeking out the vintage Fornasetti pieces in avant-garde modern furniture boutiques and at auction.
        Mr. Fornasetti was born in Milan on Nov. 10, 1913, the eldest of four children. His mother, Marta Munch, was German. His father, Pietro Fornasetti, was an accountant.
        An artistic and talented child, Mr. Fornasetti studied at the Brera Academy of Fine Arts in Milan and later at the Castello Sforzesco school in Milan. Creation of Silk Scarves
        An educational grant gave Mr. Fornasetti the opportunity to travel as a young man. ''He just took a ship and went to Africa,'' his son said. ''It was better than a school for him.'' On his return to Italy, one of Mr. Fornasetti's first projects was the creation of silk scarves. They caught the attention of Gio Ponti, an Italian architect who became Mr. Fornasetti's most important and loyal patron and with whom he collaborated on furniture designs and large scale interior decoration projects that included the first-class staterooms on the steamship Andrea Doria.
        In 1959, Mr. Fornasetti received a Neiman-Marcus award for ''distinguished service in the field of fashion.'' A meticulous craftsman, Mr. Fornasetti was able to produce his whimsical designs in awesome numbers.
        Mr. Fornasetti was always secretive about his printing techniques. ''It was a kind of print transfer, but it was always a big secret,'' said Ralph Cutler, a partner in Fifty-50, a Manhattan gallery that specializes in decorative accessories and furniture of the 30's, 40's and 50's.
        The designer often refused to sign his work according to Norton Blumenthal, an importer of Mr. Fornasetti's furniture and ceramics. ''He regards his work as manufactured pieces, not art,'' he said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Fornasetti was working with his son on a biography.
        Apart from his son, who manages Mr. Fornasetti's shop and business in Milan, the artist is survived by his wife, the former Giulia Gelme; two sisters, Lina and Marta, and a brother, Gigi, an interior decorator in Milan.
      