
       James Aronson, an editor, teacher and journalism critic for five decades, died of cancer of the prostate yesterday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        James Aronson, an editor, teacher and journalism critic for five decades, died of cancer of the prostate yesterday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1948, Mr. Aronson co-founded The National Guardian, a leftist weekly, with Cedric Belfrage, and he was its editor. He turned the publication over to his staff in 1967, after what both sides said was a nonideological dispute over format and coverage of events.
        On Thursday night, as The Guardian marked its 40th anniversary at a program at the Village Gate, Mr. Aronson's wife accepted an award in his behalf.
        A strong supporter of left-wing causes, Mr. Aronson was called before Congressional investigating committees in the 50's to answer charges that, as a civilian press-control officer in Germany after World War II, he had licensed Communists to establish newspapers. He testified that Communists were not excluded by Allied Military Government regulations. Critic of the Press
        At several hearings, he invoked the Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination when questioned about testimony that he had been an active Communist.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Aronson was a strong critic of much of the American press, which he contended in a book, ''The Press and the Cold War,'' published by Bobbs-Merrill in 1971, was essentially a voluntary arm of government. A new edition of the book is scheduled for publication next month by the Universe Publishing Company.
        Mr. Aronson later saw some hope in the birth of underground journals, alternative publications and journalism reviews. In ''Deadline for the Media'' (1973), he found signs that the mainstream press was being effectively countered.
        A graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism, Mr. Aronson worked at The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times, before becoming editor of Frontpage, the publication of the New York Newspaper Guild. He taught journalism at Hunter College for several years, until his retirement three years ago.
        In 1979, he was the first American to teach journalism in China after the resumption of relations with the United States.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Grambs Miller; two daughters, Mary McCormick of North Andover, Mass., and Maggi Saunders of Mill Valley, Calif.; a brother, Earl, of Hudson, N.Y.; a sister, Florence Greenblatt of Lauderdale Lakes, Fla., and three grandchilden.
      