
       Anthony V. Barber, a former headmaster of preparatory schools in the New York metropolitan region, died of bronchial pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Barber, who had been ill with cancer, was 83 years old and also lived in Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
        Anthony V. Barber, a former headmaster of preparatory schools in the New York metropolitan region, died of bronchial pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Barber, who had been ill with cancer, was 83 years old and also lived in Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
        Mr. Barber was headmaster of the Lawrence Country Day School in Hewlett, L.I., from 1943 to 1963, when he retired. He was headmaster of the Tuxedo Park School from 1941 to 1943.
        Mr. Barber began teaching after graduating from Columbia University in 1927 and doing two years of post-graduate work in history at New College of Oxford University.
        In 1929 he became an instructor at the Hun School in Princeton, N.J. A year later he joined the faculty of the Gunnery School in Washington, Conn., where he taught until 1934. His first association with the Lawrence School began that year as an instructor and ended seven years later, in 1941, when he was the school's assistant headmaster.
        Mr. Barber, whose first wife, Florence Louise Steinway, died in 1977, was a former director of the Steinway Foundation established by the piano-making family. He also was a former member of the committee on academic standards of the National Association of Independent Schools and of the board of governors of the United States Court Tennis Association. He was also a former president of the Tuxedo Park Library.
        In 1979, Mr. Barber married Virginia McClamroch Hoge, widow of James F. Hoge. Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Anthony Jr., of San Francisco and Frederick, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Julia S. Benedict of St. Louis; two stepsons, James F. Hoge, president and publisher of The New York Daily News, and Warren M. Hoge, an assistant managing editor of The New York Times; two stepdaughters, Barbara H. Daine of Riverside, Conn., and Virginia Hoge-Verwaal of Manhattan, nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        A memorial service is to be held Saturday at 11 A.M. at the St. Mary's-in-Tuxedo Episcopal Church in Tuxedo Park.
      