
       Franz Josef Strauss, the butcher's son who helped shape the West German state and exercised a caustic and often contentious influence over its politics from his stronghold in Bavaria, died today. He was 73 years old.
        Franz Josef Strauss, the butcher's son who helped shape the West German state and exercised a caustic and often contentious influence over its politics from his stronghold in Bavaria, died today. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Strauss, the Bavarian state Premier, collapsed Saturday while hunting deer on the land of Prince Johannes von Thurn und Taxis, one of the world's richest men, and died without regaining consciousness in a hospital in Regensburg, about 60 miles north of Munich. The cause of his death was given as failure of the heart and circulatory system.
        Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who learned of Mr. Strauss's death on a flight from Indonesia to Australia, announced he was cutting short his trip. The Chancellor described Mr. Strauss as ''one of the greatest of the founding fathers of the Federal Republic.''
        Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, a political rival whose conciliatory foreign policies were often attacked by Mr. Strauss, paid tribute to his ''irreplaceable contribution to the building of postwar democracy in Germany.'' Tough-Talking and Colorful
        Mr. Strauss's Christian Social Union, a conservative party he helped found in Bavaria and led for the last 25 years, has long been allied with the national Christian Democrats. Since 1983, it has participated in a center-right governing coalition with Mr. Kohl's Christian Democratic Union and Mr. Genscher's Free Democratic Party.
        Mr. Strauss has had frequent disputes with his Christian Democratic senior partners in recent years. He argued against the abolition of medium-range missiles and introduced a compulsory AIDS testing program for high-risk groups in Bavaria over the opposition of the federal Health Ministry.
        He was politically untouchable in Bavaria, a former kingdom that he ruled in regal style and that under his stewardship became one of the most prosperous regions of a prosperous West Germany. The tough-looking, tough-talking politician was one of the most colorful and enduring of West Germany's postwar leaders.
        His opponents, and they were many outside Bavaria, criticized him for his conservatism, his support of the arms industry, his trips to South Africa and his political style. Promoted Trade With East
        But to his admirers, including some Americans, Mr. Strauss was a shrewd and capable politician and patriot who helped lift West Germany out of the ruins of the Third Reich and raise it to a position of economic and military authority. Though a conservative, he was at the forefront of forging trade relations with the East, particularly East Germany.
        Above all, he stood out in the colorless world of present-day German politics as a fighter who played politics with the same passion he devoted to hunting, flying and drinking.
        For his 70th birthday, typically marked with opulent, weeklong celebrations, President Reagan personally signed the preface to a book of plaudits from prominent leaders, calling Mr. Strauss an ''extraordinary man.''
        Mr. Reagan said in a message to the Bonn Government and the Strauss family today that Mr. Strauss was ''a firm friend of the United States, sharing our dedication to individual freedom and close cooperation between our two countries.'' Artillery Officer During War
        Born the second son of a butcher in Munich on Sept. 6, 1915, Mr. Strauss earned high grades in secondary school and at the University of Munich, where he studied classics.
        He served in World War II as an artillery officer in France and the Soviet Union, and after suffering acute frostbite returned as an instructor at a military academy in Schongau, Bavaria.
        After the war, Mr. Strauss was cleared of war crimes as part of the Allied review of all former German Army officers and appointed administrator of Schongau. There he joined in founding the Christian Social Union, and before long he was among the leaders of the new West German state founded in 1949.
        Mr. Strauss held various ministerial posts under Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, but he is best remembered as the architect of rearmament as Defense Minister from 1956 to 1962.
        Mr. Strauss was forced to resign as a result of the ''Spiegel affair,'' in which he pressed treason charges against Der Spiegel, the prominent weekly news magazine, and had several of its reporters arrested for an article critical of the German military. But he recovered to become Finance Minister in the ''grand coalition'' of the left and right from 1966 to 1969. National Ambitions Failed
        His ambition to become Chancellor was thwarted in the elections of 1980, and his subsequent efforts to supplant Mr. Genscher as Foreign Minister also failed.
        Still, with a power base in Bavaria, which he ruled as minister-president for the last decade, Mr. Strauss continued to make well-publicized forays into national and foreign policy.
        Renowned for his fierce opposition to the Socialists' policies of detente in the 1970's, Mr. Strauss subsequently became one of the most active pursuers of trade and contacts with East Germany, the Soviet Union and other Communist countries. In 1983, he stunned West Germans with an announcement of a billion-mark credit to East Germany, a deal that opened a new era of economic relations between East and West Germany and made Mr. Strauss a welcome guest in Eastern Europe. 'Progressive Conservative'
        Mr. Strauss described himself as a ''progressive conservative,'' and insisted there was no contradiction between his ideological anti-Communism and his advocacy of economic ties with the East.
        ''I never betray my convictions,'' he said in an interview last year. He said that Socialists in Eastern Europe ''have not the slightest doubt what my convictions are.''
        ''But I believe the Socialists prefer to talk to conservatives than to other Socialists, because we have no ideological disputes,'' he added with a hearty laugh.
        In Bavaria, Mr. Strauss and his party were widely credited with pursuing policies that made the state one of West Germany's most prosperous and Munich aglittering and envied city. Mr. Strauss paid particular attention to the aviation industry, and served as the German chairman of Airbus, the European consortium. Libel Suit Over Nazism Charge
        In the course of Mr. Strauss's political career, his adversaries charged that he had been a Nazi, or at least associated with Nazis. Mr. Strauss fought back vehemently, initiating a successful libel suit against one magazine in 1981, in which he maintained that he was an active opponent of the Nazis and had been among the officers plotting against Hitler.
        Mr. Strauss did acknowledge that he was a member of the Drivers' Corps, a Nazi mass organization for technologically oriented people, but said he had joined at the urging of a teacher who told him he needed a camouflage for his anti-Nazi activities.
        Mr. Strauss's wife, Marianne, died in 1984 in an auto accident, and he is survived by two sons and a daughter.
      