
       David W. C. Clark, a New York lawyer implicated in the insider trading scandal that involved a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, died Saturday at his mother's home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 38 years old.
        David W. C. Clark, a New York lawyer implicated in the insider trading scandal that involved a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, died Saturday at his mother's home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 38 years old.
        Mr. Clark's death was attributed to chronic alcoholism, said Michael Salvati, an investigator with the Broward County Medical Examiner's office.
        In November, Mr. Clark was found guilty in Federal District Court in Manhattan on all but one of 17 counts of fraud, tax evasion and perjury. The charges stemmed from stock trading by him while he was practicing law at Appleton, Rice & Perrin in New York City.
        Mr. Clark had been charged with embezzling $3.7 million from law clients to finance his trading. The indictment also contended that he had failed to report his trading profits as income, and that he subsequently lied twice to investigators from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Mr. Clark, who was free on bail, was to have been sentenced Friday. He faced up to 75 years in prison. Payments to Winans
        Mr. Clark was the last figure tied to the case of the former columnist, R. Foster Winans, to be tried on criminal charges.
        Mr. Winans, one of the writers of The Journal's ''Heard on the Street'' column, was convicted two years ago on mail and wire fraud charges for misappropriating confidential information from the newspaper. He admitted that he disclosed the information of forthcoming columns, which potentially affected the stock prices of companies mentioned in the columns, to Peter N. Brant, a former stockbroker with Kidder, Peabody & Company.
        Prosecutors said that when Mr. Clark was unable to raise money to keep his financial scheme from being discovered, he and Mr. Brant paid Mr. Winans to tell them what stocks would be discussed in future columns.
        Although he was linked to Mr. Winans's case, Mr. Clark was not tried on insider trading charges. In September, 38 such charges against him were dropped after Judge John Keenan of Federal District Court, who presided over the case, said the charges threatened to delay the trial until the outcome of Mr. Winans's appeal to the United States Supreme Court. The Court upheld the conviction of Mr. Winans. 'Tragic End'
        F. Lee Bailey, Mr. Clark's lawyer, yesterday expressed regret over his client's death and said he believed Mr. Clark would have been vindicated.
        ''I think he had a very good chance to win on an appeal,'' Mr. Bailey said.
        Prosecutors in the case also expressed regret over Mr. Clark's death. ''It's a pretty tragic end to a tragic story,'' said Carl Loewenson Jr., an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan.
        A native of Kansas City, Kan., Mr. Clark was an alumnus of Deerfield Academy and Columbia University, from which he graduated in 1970. He received a law degree four years later from Fordham University.
        Mr. Clark is survived by his mother, Margaret Conger Clark; two brothers, Peter, of Fort Lauderdale, and Douglas, of Boca Raton, Fla., and two sons, Ian and Alistiar.
      