
       Spurgeon M. Keeny, who spent decades in Asia helping local governments set up programs for family planning and children's health care, died of a stroke Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        Spurgeon M. Keeny, who spent decades in Asia helping local governments set up programs for family planning and children's health care, died of a stroke Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        For more than 60 years, Mr. Keeny's work in humanitarian relief took him to much of Asia and Europe, starting in World War I, when he served as a Y.M.C.A. volunteer with the British Army, looking after Indian troops.
        In 1948, Mr. Keeny joined Unicef, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, as chief supply officer for Europe. Unicef promoted him in 1950 to regional director for Asia, a Bangkok-based post that he held until 1963, working to improve the lot of what he described as ''half the world's children.''
        After reaching the mandatory United Nations retirement age of 70, Mr. Keeny became the Asian representative of the Population Council, based in Taiwan. For the next 13 years, he helped bring family planning to the teeming villages and towns of Asia.
        He retired to Washington at the age of 83, but he continued to work as a consultant to the Population Council, the World Bank and other organizations.
        Spurgeon Milton Keeny, known to all as Sam, was born in Shrewsbury, Pa. After graduating summa cum laude from Gettysburg College in 1914, he headed for Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. Once in England, he volunteered his services to the British Army before the United States entered the First World War.
        When the Soviet Government signed a separate peace with Germany, the Y.M.C.A. asked Mr. Keeny to attach himself to the Czech Legion, marooned in Russia, and channel relief supplies to it during its long march to join the Allies on the Western Front. He managed to finish his studies at Oxford with distinction, then returned to Estonia and Russia to care for prisoners of war waiting to go home.
        He served with Herbert Hoover's American Relief Administration from 1922 to 1924, taking food and fuel to university students and teachers in the Soviet Union.
        For the next 20 years, Mr. Keeny held a number of prominent national posts with the Y.M.C.A. in New York.
        During World War II, Washington recruited him to help with civilian relief after the invasions of North Africa and Italy, and after the war he was appointed mission chief in Italy for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.
        Mr. Keeny is survived by his son, Spurgeon M. Jr. of Washington, two grandsons and a granddaughter. A memorial service will be held in Washington at a date to be announced.
        Correction:  October 25, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
        A picture in some copies yesterday with an obituary of Spurgeon M. Keeny was published in error. It showed his son, Spurgeon Jr.
      