
       Cornelius P. Mulder, who was forced to resign as South Africa's Information Minister in 1978 amid revelations about his role in a scheme to buy influence in the United States and other Western countries, died Tuesday at the age of 62, his family announced. He had been taken to hospital in Johannesburg on
        Cornelius P. Mulder, who was forced to resign as South Africa's Information Minister in 1978 amid revelations about his role in a scheme to buy influence in the United States and other Western countries, died Tuesday at the age of 62, his family announced. He had been taken to hospital in Johannesburg on Sunday, and the cause of death was given as kidney and liver failure.
        Shortly before his resignation, Mr. Mulder came close to defeating P .W. Botha for the post of Prime Minister in succession to John Vorster, who had retired as Government leader to become the country's titular president earlier in 1978.
        Mr. Mulder's bid for leadership of the ruling National Party failed by a handful of votes. Mr. Botha, now 71, eliminated the post of Prime Minister in a constitutional change in 1984, but continues to head the Government as executive president. New Right-Wing Group
        Mr. Mulder attempted a political comeback by forming a right-wing breakaway group, the National Conservative Party, but when that failed to attract significant support the party amalgamated with another right-wing group to become the Conservative Party, under the leadership of another former minister in the Vorster Cabinet, Andries P. Treurnicht.
        In an election in last May, the Treurnicht group shook the Government by winning 540,000 votes, half as many as the National Party and enough to make it the official opposition party in the white house of Parliament. One of the 22 members it elected was Mr. Mulder.
        For Mr. Mulder, joining those who advocated an end to liberalization of racial policies amounted to a radical change of course. As Information Minister in the 1970's, he struck a different posture, particularly on his frequent visits to the United States. At that time, he urged those concerned about apartheid to be patient while those within the Government who considered the official racial policies to be outdated - and he implied he was their leader - mustered their forces for a takeover of the National Party.
        Later, it became known that his public efforts to win sympathy for the Government had run parallel with a clandestine effort to buy influence with political figures, journalists and others in Western countries who were thought to be in a position to weaken opposition to South Africa. Defense Funds Diverted
        When these efforts became public, a judicial inquiry was commenced that confirmed that Mr. Mulder and his aides had plotted to gain financial control of The Washington Star. In addition, the inquiry found that millions of dollars from a secret defense fund had been siphoned off into officials' private bank accounts.
        Mr. Mulder escaped prosecution, but his career in the National Party was ruined. When his death was announced today, Mr. Treurnicht, a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church, appeared on the Government-run television service with a lengthy tribute in which he praised Mr. Mulder as an ''honest man'' of strong convictions.
        He is survived by his wife, Suzanne, and four children, one of whom, Pieter Mulder, is a Conservative Party candidate in a parliamentary by-election in Transvaal Province that has been scheduled for March 2.
      