
       Muzafer Sherif, a social psychologist who was the author of 17 books, died of a heart attack Oct. 16 at Fairbanks Memorial Hospital in Fairbanks, Alaska. He was 82 years old and lived in Fairbanks.
        Muzafer Sherif, a social psychologist who was the author of 17 books, died of a heart attack Oct. 16 at Fairbanks Memorial Hospital in Fairbanks, Alaska. He was 82 years old and lived in Fairbanks.
        Mr. Sherif was widely known for what Roger Brown, a social psychologist at Harvard University, calls ''the most successful field experiment ever conducted on intergroup conflict.'' In the experiment, Mr. Sherif showed how prejudice can develop and how it can be changed.
        In the experiment, 22 boys at a summer camp were split into two competing groups. Each group worked together as a team for a week, creating a strong sense of group loyalty. Then the two groups were pitted against each other in competitions, which grew progressively bitter. After a week of competition, the boys in each group saw the others with resentment and hostility.
        At that point, the groups were combined and all worked together on common projects. Once they began to share a sense of accomplishment, their hostility disapeared. Model for Psychologists
        The study, known as the ''Robber's Cave'' experiment, after the summer camp where it was done, was the subject of a book by Mr. Sherif published in 1961. It became a model for social psychologists seeking to break patterns of hostility in intergroup relations, particularly during the civil rights movement, and is still cited in most texts as the seminal study on intergroup relations.
        Born in Izmir, Turkey, Mr. Sherif was educated at the University of Instanbul, Harvard University and Columbia University, from which he received his Ph.D. in 1935. He had a long career in teaching and research, which included work at Princeton and Yale Universities and at state universities in Oklahoma, Texas, Washington and Pennsylvania. He was professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, from which he retired in 1972 as professor emeritus.
        Along with his wife, the late Carolyn Wood Sherif, and others, he wrote 17 books on social psychology, including ''The Psychology of Social Norms,'' (1965) reprinted in 1965 by Octagon Press; ''An Outline of Social Psychology,'' reprinted in 1956 by Harper; ''Intergroup Conflict and Cooperation: The Robber's Cave Experiment,'' published in 1961 by the University Book Exchange; and ''In Common Predicament: Social Psychology of Intergroup Conflict,'' published in 1966 by Houghton Mifflin.
        He is survived by three daughters, Joan, of Gastonia, N.C., Sue, of Fairbanks, and Ann, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio; and a brother and sister in Turkey.
      