
       S. B. Fuller, an entrepreneur who became the first black member of the National Association of Manufacturers, died of kidney failure Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Blue Island, a suburb of Chicago. He was 83 years old.
        S. B. Fuller, an entrepreneur who became the first black member of the National Association of Manufacturers, died of kidney failure Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Blue Island, a suburb of Chicago. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Fuller, who was born in Monroe, La., and reared in poverty, had only six years of formal education. But he built a multimillion-dollar conglomerate of companies that had sales of more than $10 million a year and offices in 38 states in the 1950's and early 1960's.
        Mr. Fuller's mother, who died when he was 17 years old, convinced him that the best way out of poverty was through door-to-door sales. He hitchhiked to Chicago and became a salesman but found, he said in a 1963 interview, ''that I could not get ahead working for somebody else.''
        In 1935 Mr. Fuller started his company, the Fuller Products Company, with $25, buying soap and then selling it door to door. He later used these sales techniques to offer 30 items of a little-known line of cosmetics. His business grew and he began producing his own cosmetics and allied products, which became nationally known. Newspapers and Real Estate
        By 1963 Fuller Products had more than 3,000 sales representatives in 38 states and Mr. Fuller controlled eight other corporations, including a department store in Chicago, a real estate trust in New York, farming and cattle interests and the Courier chain of newspapers serving black audiences in Chicago, New York, Detroit and Pittsburgh.
        Mr. Fuller, who was no relation to Alfred C. Fuller, the founder of the Fuller Brush Company, ardently believed that anyone could prosper in America through hard work, dedication and going into business for one's self.
        In a 1963 speech to a Baptist convention in Chicago, Mr. Fuller urged blacks to save their money so they could own their own busnesses. ''If we could save money as well as we save souls, many of our troubles would be solved,'' he said.
        Later that year, in a speech before the National Association of Manufacturers, Mr. Fuller said blacks could raise their economic level if they worked harder for a good education and showed more initiative in business and industry.
        ''The minute that they can develop themselves so they excel in whatever they do,'' he said of blacks in a 1963 interview with U.S. News & World Report, ''then they are going to find that they don't have any real problems.'' Blacks Boycotted Products
        His statements drew the wrath of civil rights advocates, and blacks boycotted his stores and products.
        ''The company lost $8 million because of that,'' said Gwynne Goodlet, a spokesman for the company, which weathered bankruptcy proceedings in 1968 but now sells only cosmetics.
        Mr. Fuller practiced what he preached. Through financial help or business advice, he helped other blacks to prosper in business. His wife, Lestine, said he helped John H. Johnson, publisher of Ebony magazine; George Johnson, the cosmetics manufacturer, and Mary Ellen Shadd Strong, another publisher.
        ''Over the years, he helped thousands of people get started,'' she said.
        Besides his wife, who lives in Robbins, Ill., a suburb southwest of Chicago, Mr. Fuller is survived by five daughters, Mary Casey, of Fairfield, Conn., and Jessie Spraggins, Ethel Fuller, Louella Moore and Geraldine Greene, all of Chicago, 13 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      