
       Pietro Annigoni, the Italian artist whose 1955 portrait of Queen Elizabeth II brought him international acclaim, died Friday in Florence, Italy. He was 78 years old.
        Pietro Annigoni, the Italian artist whose 1955 portrait of Queen Elizabeth II brought him international acclaim, died Friday in Florence, Italy. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Annigoni was hospitalized in Florence on Thursday and died of kidney failure the next day, a hospital spokesman said, He had had emergency surgery in May for a perforated ulcer, but did not recover fully.
        The artist was known for using a purist, classical style to paint contemporary people and things.
        Mr. Annigoni's romantic and celebrated portrayal of the young Queen Elizabeth paved the way for subsequent studies of other prominent people, including Pope John XXIII, Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, the Shah and Empress of Iran and several other members of the British royal family. Renaissance School
        He closely followed the Renaissance school, but his style was regarded by some as too conventional. Although loyal American and European admirers hailed Mr. Annigoni as ''the Maestro,'' many art critics accused him of mimicking great classical works instead of creating his own art.
        Mr. Annigoni was defiantly unaffected by the developments of painting in the last 100 years, acknowledging that he had no use for ''modern art.''
        In 1970, 15 years after he created a sensation with his idealized portrait of Queen Elizabeth, Mr. Annigoni surprised the art world and stunned British society when he unveiled a second portrait of Queen Elizabeth. This depiction was a harsh, unsmiling portrayal.
        He described himself as a religious man and dedicated much of his work to church frescoes in and around his adopted Florence and at the Monte Cassino south of Rome.
        He began his largest work, the dome of the monastery at Monte Cassino, at the age of 70 and took five years to complete it.
        A native of Milan, Mr. Annigoni was born to working-class parents, who praised his talent and encouraged him to draw on the walls of their home.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosella Segreto, one of his favorite models when he married her in 1976.
      