
       Billy Daniels, the veteran nightclub performer, actor and big-band singer who rose to fame with his recording of ''That Old Black Magic,'' died of stomach cancer Friday at the Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital and Research Institute at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old and lived in Hollywood Hills,
        Billy Daniels, the veteran nightclub performer, actor and big-band singer who rose to fame with his recording of ''That Old Black Magic,'' died of stomach cancer Friday at the Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital and Research Institute at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old and lived in Hollywood Hills, Calif.
        The son of a Florida postmaster, Mr. Daniels started in show business as a Depression-era singing waiter in Harlem and reached stardom in the late 1940's with hits that included ''On the Sunny Side of the Street'' and ''When You're Smiling.''
        His career suffered from several brushes with scandal, including two incidents in which he was stabbed and one in which he was charged with shooting another man. He pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of illegal weapons possession and was given a suspended sentence. But Mr. Daniels shrugged off his checkered reputation and concentrated on the soulful, supremely assured style of nightclub music that was his trademark.
        ''When you're a celebrity and just go out to have coffee, it becomes an orgy,'' he said in an interview in 1965. ''I wish I'd made some of those scenes they said I did.'' Hired by Erskine Hawkins
        Born in Jacksonville, Fla., William Boone Daniels, whose family traced its ancestry to the American woodsman Daniel Boone, began pre-law studies at Florida Normal College before dropping out to help support his parents. Moving to New York City, he took a job earning $15 a week as a singing waiter at Dickie Welles' Place, a Harlem club.
        Erskine Hawkins, the band leader, heard him sing and hired him as a featured vocalist, and Mr. Daniels then moved on to a series of solo nightclub engagements at such night spots as the Onyx Club, Ebony Club and the Famous Door. He also made an unsuccessful Broadway debut in the musical ''Memphis Bound,'' which closed after a month.
        During World War II, Mr. Daniels served in the Merchant Marine, and then returned to the United States to win national prominence with his 1948 recording of ''That Old Black Magic.'' The song, written by Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer, had been performed by many bands, and Mr. Daniels first sang it on a whim during an engagement in Atlantic City. But his recording became a national hit, eventually selling more than nine million copies.
        During the 1950's and 1960's, Mr. Daniels played engagements throughout the United States, Europe and Australia, and earned as much as $26,000 a week appearing in Las Vegas. In the late 1950's, he appeared in several films including ''Rainbow 'Round My Shoulder,'' ''When You're Smiling'' and ''Sunny Side of the Street.'' 'The Essence of Showmanship'
        He also branched out again into the theater with roles in ''Golden Boy,'' with Sammy Davis Jr., ''Hello Dolly,'' with Pearl Bailey, and as the lead in ''Bubblin' Brown Sugar'' in London in 1977.
        Twice after recuperating from heart-bypass surgery, in 1982 and 1987, Mr. Daniels returned to singing, winning wide praise for the silky interpretations and polished personal style that a reviewer for The New York Times called ''the essence of showmanship.''
        Mr. Daniels's first wife, the former Florence Clotworthy, died in 1947. His second marriage, to Martha Braun, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Pierrette Cameron; two sons, William 2d of Santa Rosa, Calif., and Bruce of Los Angeles; four daughters, Yvonne Daniels of Chicago, Adrienne Danel of Manhattan, Andrea Grefelt of Lake Tahoe, Nev., and Dominique Daniels of Glendale, Calif.; two brothers, Edwin of Jacksonville, Fla., and Joel of Long Branch, N.J.; two sisters, Hattie Mae Daniels and Gwen Stewart, both of Jacksonville, and five grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be held at 10:30 A.M. Tuesday at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Beverly Hills, Calif.
      