
       Edgar Williams Couper, a former Chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, died of a heart attack Sunday at Lourdes Hospital in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in Binghamton.
        Edgar Williams Couper, a former Chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, died of a heart attack Sunday at Lourdes Hospital in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in Binghamton.
        Mr. Couper, a Republican, was named to the State Board of Regents in 1951 to fill the unexpired term of George L. Hinman, who had resigned. He represented the Sixth Judicial District, along the Southern Tier. In 1955, he was elected to a 13-year term and, in 1957, was elected vice chancellor.
        In 1961, he became Chancellor, succeeding John F. Brosnan of Manhattan, and retired March 31, 1968.
        Among the Regents' powers is setting school standards and policies.
        Mr. Couper, a native of Boonville, N.Y., graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Hamilton College in 1920. Having worked his way through college, tuition costs were one of his chief concerns. He remembered the days when, even with a $100 Regents scholarship he had won in 1916 on graduation from Binghamton Central High School, he tutored students and worked summers to earn tuition money.
        ''I look with nothing but sympathy at the ordinary guy's problems - and I'm an ordinary guy - concerning the cost of education,'' Mr. Couper said when he was appointed. ''A college eduation is too expensive for him. I know this. I had to struggle through college. I know what it is.''
        In the early 50's, he headed a citizens group that succeeded in having a state university center established at Binghamton.
        In 1953, Mr. Couper was elected president of the First National Bank, now the First-City National Bank, the biggest bank in Binghamton at the time.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Esther Watrous; a sister, Mary, of Binghamton; a son, Richard, of Princeton, N.J.; a daughter, Katharine C. Watrous; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren, A service will be held today at 4:40 P.M. at Trinity Memorial Episcopal Church in Binghamton.
      