
       Merle Evans, the ''Toscanini of the Big Top'' who for 50 years thrilled crowds as he led the blaring band of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, died Thursday in Sarasota, Fla., the winter home of the circus. He was 96 years old.
        Merle Evans, the ''Toscanini of the Big Top'' who for 50 years thrilled crowds as he led the blaring band of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, died Thursday in Sarasota, Fla., the winter home of the circus. He was 96 years old.
        Mr. Evans and his all-brass ensemble used to play about 200 different pieces of music in a three-hour performance. His repertoire pacing the ringside action included a medley of waltzes, tangoes, fox trots, gallops, marches and Latin numbers, along with Wagner, Tchaikovsky and Smetana, not to mention Sousa.
        He wanted his music to have the zip that went with the sawdust, the beat of hoofs and the cheers of excited children.
        Mr. Evans also enjoyed an illustrious musical career beyond circus, recording and directing bands around the country and in Europe. There, his concert programs included Bach, Beethoven and Brahms, played before audiences in the many thousands. A Native of Kansas
        Born in Columbus, Kan., he taught himself to play the cornet when he was 10 years old. At 15 he left home and began to play with touring medicine shows, in revivals, aboard the Mississippi River showboat Cotton Blossom, in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show and, as he himself put it, ''every vaudeville pit in the country.''
        ''I had practiced for six hours a day for three years,'' he recalled, ''but the best training was listening to such greats as Clark, Bachman, Gilmore, Sousa and learning from them the art of phrasing, tonal production, varied styles.''
        He was blowing his cornet with Gus Hill's minstrels when Charles Ringling summoned him in 1919 to strike up the band for him. That was the year the circus of the five Ringling brothers joined forces with Barnum & Bailey, the creation of Phineas T. Barnum, to form the world's largest traveling exhibit, billed as ''The Greatest Show on Earth.''
        Soon, the Big Top hailed Mr. Evans as a Toscanini of its very own. Guest Appearances
        He announced his retirement for the first time in 1955, saying that the televised circus spectacular of that year would mark his final performance. By then he had struck up the band 22,000 times.
        But it was not until 1969, in his 50th year with the circus, that he formally passed on his baton, along with his job of musical director. Even after that he could still be seen now and then leading the band in its red-costumed splendor. And he continued to show up as a guest conductor at workshops until last year.
        Over the decades he witnessed the ups and downs of the circus world and the demise of the big tent, which Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey folded for the last time in Pittsburgh in 1956. He saw the acrobat Hans Jahn fall to his death in New York City in 1930 and the disasterous day of the fire, on July 6, 1944, in Hartford, Conn., that touched off a stampede in which 168 people died and 487 were injured.
        ''During the years,'' he said when he spoke of retirement in 1955, ''I have seen all the Ringling Brothers pass on, seen the end of the circus parade and the retirement of many stars and circus greats. Now I plan to rest myself.''
      