
       Truong Chinh, one of the last of the original group of militant Communist revolutionaries who governed Vietnam over the last 35 years, died at his home in Hanoi on Friday, according to the Vietnam News Agency. He was 80 years old.
        Truong Chinh, one of the last of the original group of militant Communist revolutionaries who governed Vietnam over the last 35 years, died at his home in Hanoi on Friday, according to the Vietnam News Agency. He was 80 years old.
        The official agency said Mr. Chinh had suffered an accidental fall and died of severe hemorrhaging an hour later. The Government set a five-day period of mourning to begin today.
        Mr. Chinh, regarded as a hard-liner and an ideologue, was General Secretary of the Communist Party from 1941 to 1956 and again for six months in 1986 but was abruptly retired in a shake-up in December of that year after the party leadership acknowledged severe economic problems and a loss of confidence in the top leadership After that he has officially a party ''adviser.'' Three of Old Guard Left
        His death leaves only three of the party's old guard, who formed the core of the late Ho Chi Minh's ruling cadre: Pham van Dong, a former prime minister; Le Duc Tho, a politician who held high defense posts, and Vo Nguyen Giap, the military commander in chief who defeated the French at Dienbienphu in 1954 to end colonial rule in Vietnam.
        Mr. Chinh is credited by Communist historians with being ''the first builder and commander'' of the revolution. But Western historical sources depict him as a ruthless leader whose attempt at agrarian reform in the mid-1950's led to large-scale dispossession of families and the killing of as many as 50,000 dissenters.
        Mr. Chinh was in and out of power several times during his long career. In 1956, he was dismissed as General Secretary over the failed atttempt at land reform, but he was back two years later as one of four vice premiers of North Vietnam, the Communist half of the then-divided country.
        When Ho Chi Minh, the Communist Party's founder and the country's undisputed leader, died in 1969, Mr. Chinh was eclipsed by another old-time revolutionary, Le Duan, who took over as General Secretary of the party. It was not until 1986, after Mr. Duan died, that Mr. Chinh assumed that post for what was to be a short tenure. Name Means 'Long March'
        He was born in 1908 in the northern province of Ha Nam Hinh; his father was a schoolteacher. As he rose in Communist ranks, he changed his name of Dang Xuan Khu to Truong Chinh, which means ''Long March'' in Vietnamese, because of his admiration for Mao Zedong, who led the Red Army's epic Long March across China in 1934 and 1935.
        Mr. Chinh began his nationalist political activity as a teen-ager and was expelled from school for agitation in 1928. He went to Hanoi, where he completed his secondary education and studied at the Hanoi College of Commerce.
        He joined Ho Chi Minh's Revolutionary Youth League and began contributing articles to Communist publications, laying the groundwork for his later role as the party's top ideologist. By 1930 he was a leading propogandist against the French, and in 1931 he was arrested and convicted of subversion, for which he spent five years in prison. He returned to Hanoi after his release, but in 1939, when the Communist Party was banned in what was then Indo-China, he fled to China with Ho Chi Minh. Propaganda Chief
        At the end of World War II they returned to Hanoi and in 1946 proclaimed the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, setting the stage for a protracted war with the French, which ended eight years later when General Giap's troops annihilated the garrison at Dienbienphu. During this period Mr. Chinh was propaganda chief for the Communist Party and second only to Ho Chi Minh in power.
        There followed Mr. Chinh's disastrous land-reform effort and his restoration to the top rank of the party in 1958. Two years later he was elected head of the National Assembly, a post he held until 1976.
        When the United States entered hostilities in Vietnam, Mr. Chinh persuaded his fellow leaders not to throw North Vietnamese troops into battle but to wage a protracted guerrilla war and to engage in a vigorous political struggle.
        But when the Communists won the war and took over South Vietnam, he and other members of the party's old guard were unable to manage the economy, and their loss of public support prompted a rise of younger leaders.
      