
       Dr. Joseph C. Elgin, dean of the Princeton School of Engineering and Applied Science from 1954 to 1971, died Tuesday at the Lawrenceville (N.J.) Nursing Home after suffering a stroke. He was 84 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Joseph C. Elgin, dean of the Princeton School of Engineering and Applied Science from 1954 to 1971, died Tuesday at the Lawrenceville (N.J.) Nursing Home after suffering a stroke. He was 84 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Elgin was widely known for his efforts to reform engineering education by putting primary emphasis on scientific knowledge rather than technical training. He played a key role in the development of Princeton's graduate program in engineering.
        He was born in Nashville and received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Virginia and a doctoral degree from Princeton. He joined the Princeton faculty in 1929. From 1936 to 1954, he was chairman of the chemical engineering department, serving also as associate dean of the engineering school from 1951 until his appointment as dean three years later. He retired in 1971. Dr. Elgin was a consultant to industry on plastics, rubber, chemicals, petroleum and textile processing, and he wrote many articles for scientific journals.
        In 1969 he received the Lamme Award, the highest honor of the American Society of Engineering Education. In 1957 he was named chairman of the board of trustees of Associated Universities Inc., operator of the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island.
        For four years during World War II, Dr. Elgin was an investigator and consultant for the National Defense Resources Council, and he also served with the War Production Board. In 1944 and 1945 he was associated with the Manhattan Project at Columbia University, working to develop the first atomic bomb.
        Dr. Elgin is survived by two daughters, Alice Bishop of Princeton and Sarah Timberlake of Alexandria, Va; a son, Joseph Jr., of Williamsville, N.Y.; a brother, Duncan, of Charlotte, N.C.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      