
       Frederick Ungar, a publisher who fled the Nazi occupation of Austria and published the works of Goethe, Thomas Mann and Erich Fromm in the United States, died of heart failure Nov. 16 at his home in Scarborough, N.Y. He was 90 years old.
        Frederick Ungar, a publisher who fled the Nazi occupation of Austria and published the works of Goethe, Thomas Mann and Erich Fromm in the United States, died of heart failure Nov. 16 at his home in Scarborough, N.Y. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Ungar, a publisher and translator for 65 years, founded the Frederick Ungar Publishing Company in New York in 1940, declaring that he wanted ''to publish books that are contributions either to knowledge, esthetic enjoyment or the affirmation of life.''
        His 2,000 or so titles over the next four decades included many books in literature and criticism, history and philosophy, science and the arts. The company's four-volume ''Encyclopedia of World Literature in the 20th Century'' remains one of the landmark references to writers from many other nations and languages. Its ''Literature and Life'' series of literary biographies consists of some 200 volumes and its Library of Literary Criticism consists of 30 volumes.
        Mr. Ungar also published almost 200 translations, including, in 1983, ''Reflections of a Nonpolitical Man,'' the last of Thomas Mann's major works to be translated into English. Although it was translated by Walter D. Morris, Mr. Ungar, who edited the book, compared every line of the translation with the original version.
        The book, written during World War I, amounted to a passionate defense of the German culture of Luther, Goethe, Nietzsche and others, which Mann felt was threated by the ''inferior'' civilizations and democracies of France and England. Mr. Ungar said he published it because it was ''an interesting intellectual autobiography by a major world writer.'' A Publisher at 24
        Mr. Ungar was born in Vienna on Sept. 5, 1898. He became a publisher in 1922, and printed many liberal and anti-Nazi books before he was forced to turn his company over to a non-Jewish employee in 1938. He left Austria for Prague, then traveled to Zurich and London before settling in New York.
        He edited or co-edited many books, including an anthology of German poetry through the 19th century, a collection of short stories in which European writers paid homage to mothers, an anthology of Friedrich Schiller, and a collection of Goethe's reflections and maxims.
        In 1985, Mr. Ungar sold his company to the Crossroad/Continuum Publishing group. Yesterday, Werner Mark Linz, the chairman of the group, praised Mr. Ungar's lengthy and distinguished service 'to the world of literature and the ideals of humanism.'' He noted that Mr. Ungar had continued to edit full time until two years ago and part time until last summer.
        Mr. Ungar is survived by his wife, Hansi, and a son, Bertrand, of Denver.
        Memorial services will be held on Sunday at 3 P.M. at Beecher Funeral Home in Pleasantville, N.Y.
      