
       Hans Peter Kraus, one of the world's foremost rare-book dealers and bibliophiles, died of pneumonia at his home in Ridgefield, Conn., yesterday. He was 81 years old and had remained active until a few days ago in the shop he had opened in Manhattan nearly half a century ago.
        Hans Peter Kraus, one of the world's foremost rare-book dealers and bibliophiles, died of pneumonia at his home in Ridgefield, Conn., yesterday. He was 81 years old and had remained active until a few days ago in the shop he had opened in Manhattan nearly half a century ago.
        Mr. Kraus had a narrow escape from the Nazis in his native Vienna and reached New York in 1939 to start over. At his shop, H. P. Kraus, he turned his scholarship and a love of books he discovered as a boy into a considerable fortune. His shop grew into one of the biggest and best-known on either side of the Atlantic.
        Mr. Kraus owned a Gutenberg Bible, acquired in 1970. Ten years later, he and his wife, the former Hanni Zucker, were honored by the Library of Congress for their giving his precious Drake Collection to the nation. The collection is a body of maps, manuscripts, medals and portraits relating to the life and explorations of Sir Francis Drake, the 16th-century English admiral and buccaneer. Gospels of Henry the Lion
        Transactions negotiated by Mr. Kraus often were widely noted for the prominence of seller and buyer and the fabulous sums changing hands along with a gem of a collection or ancient manuscript.
        For instance, a German consortium paid $11.7 million five years ago at an auction at Sotheby's in London for a sumptuously illustrated Romanesque gospel book, the Gospels of Henry the Lion. Connoisseurs consider it one of the greatest medieval masterpieces remaining in private hands, and Mr. Kraus was one of the principals involved. The book was placed on permanent display at a library in West Germany.
        The gospel was created about 1174 by a Benedectine monk at the great Helmarshausen abbey in Lower Saxony. The price paid was at the time the largest sum ever spent at auction for a work of art.
        In 1981, Mr. Kraus was the buyer, also in London, of the Ottobeuren Gradual and Sacramentary, a one-of-a-kind illuminated manuscript bound in pigskin over wooden board. Commissioned in Augsburg 817 years earlier, it had been sold at Sotheby's in 1887 for $:910. Mr. Kraus got it, again at Sotheby's, for $:700,000 - $1.4 million at the exchange then prevailing. The Son of a Doctor
        Hans Peter Kraus, an only child, was the son of Dr. Emil Kraus, a member of the medical faculty at the University of Vienna. An avid philatelist, Dr. Kraus sought to pass his interest to his son.
        Aged 16, Hans was in the mountains searching a 16th-century chest in the attic of an old house when, looking for stamps, he came across a mouse-eaten atlas. The owner gave it to him, and the boy found that he had happened on a treasure; one map was the celebrated 1578 Mercator map of the world.
        Hans Kraus had begun to buy books at 13 and did a trade with his school books. Early on, it dawned on him that a rare book picked up at a little suburban shop might fetch double the money in the city.
        At 17, he apprenticed to a leading store in Vienna and then trained formally at a book-seller's school before joining the Vienna branch of the old Berlin firm of Ernst Wasmuth. Following years of travel, he was ready to start his own shop in Vienna in 1932.
        It was a highly competitive field, and H. P. Kraus - then as today - offered old and rare books, particularly the classics. Mr. Kraus managed to escape from Austria in 1938, bringing some of his stock to the safety of New York. Shop on 46th Street
        Mr. Kraus's collection, crammed into the shop on East 46th Street, now amounts to about 10,000 items, many of them extremely rare and correspondingly valuable.
        He was the chairman of the Kraus Thomson organization, which handles periodicals and reprints. It also owns the Bettmann Archive of photographs on East 57th Street.
        Mr. Kraus is survived by his wife who, with their daughter Maryann Mitchell, a Manhattan resident, will now operate the shop. Also surviving are three other daughters: Barbara Gstalder of Chappaqua, N.Y.; Eveline Rauber of Zurich, and Susan Nakamura of Tokyo; a son, Hans Peter Jr. of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
        A memorial service was to be announced.
      