
       Richard Lewisohn, a business execu-tive and former New York City Finance Administrator, died of lung cancer Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Richard Lewisohn, a business execu-tive and former New York City Finance Administrator, died of lung cancer Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Lewisohn, a graduate of the Lincoln School at Teachers College and Harvard University, served in the administration of former Mayor John V. Lindsay in a succession of posts starting in 1966.
        He was Purchase Commissioner, head of the Department of Commerce and Industrial Development, Economic Development Administrator and Finance Administrator, a position he took in 1970 and held until two months into the administration of Mayor Abraham D. Beame. He then became a financial consultant.
        He began his business career working for the American Lead Pencil Company, owned by an uncle, and in 1950 was named president of the Venus Pen and Pencil Company, as the concern was then known. A Love for Politics
        A staunch Republican, he got his first taste of politics in 1937 when, after graduation from Harvard, he worked in Thomas E. Dewey's campaign for District Attorney of Manhattan. ''I loved it,'' he said of the experience.
        In 1959 he was elected a Republican district leader on Manhattan's East Side with the help of Mr. Lindsay, who was then a Representative in Congress. He worked in Mr. Lindsay's 1965 mayoral campaign and was rewarded with an appointment.
        In 1963 he had sought the Republican nomination for a seat on the City Council but withdrew in the interest of party harmony after Richard S. Aldrich, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's cousin, put in a bid for the same nomination. In 1973 Mr. Lewisohn ran unsuccessfully for City Comptroller on a ticket headed by State Senator John J. Marchi, who was seeking to become Mayor.
        In the campaign, Mr. Lewisohn denounced Senator Marchi's charge that the city was engulfed by ''an incredible crime wave.''
        ''I've spent the last five years of my life trying to build up New York City,'' Mr. Lewisohn said, adding that he was ''incensed'' at what he called Mr. Marchi's fear tactics. Promoted Industrial Causes
        Mr. Lewisohn was born in New York City on Jan. 26, 1916, to a family active in civic affairs. His father, Dr. Richard Lewisohn Sr., discovered the anticoagulant that made possible the development of blood banks, while his grand-uncle, Adolph, gave City College the stadium that bears the family name.
        For his part, in his various city positions, Mr. Lewisohn helped promote the city's industrial parks and developed a program in which privately financed plants were built on city-owned property and then leased at low rates to businesses. He pushed for creation of the Flatlands Industrial Park in Brooklyn and a food distribution center in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx.
        As Finance Administrator, he also started tours of construction in the city for bankers and corporate executives. The tours helped improve ratings for the city's bonds. In addition he pioneered the overnight investment of idle city cash in short-term securities, a move that earned the city more than $40 million a year in interest.
        He served on numerous public boards and commissions, including the State Urban Development Corporation, the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York and the New York Botanical Garden. At his death, he was chairman of the State Board of Equalization and Assessment, which sets tax equalization rates for local governments.
        Mr. Lewisohn is survived by his wife, the former Jeanne Florman; a daughter, Aileen Godsick of Manhattan; two sons, Richard 3d, of Manhattan, and Clifford, of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Barbara Heyman of Stockholm, and six grandchildren.
      