
       Alfred Easton Poor, a New York architect who designed many government buildings, banks and institutional headquarters, and who was part of a group that designed the restoration and extension of the East Front of the United States Capitol in the early 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan.
        Alfred Easton Poor, a New York architect who designed many government buildings, banks and institutional headquarters, and who was part of a group that designed the restoration and extension of the East Front of the United States Capitol in the early 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old.
        In a career that spanned more than half a century, Mr. Poor worked in a variety of conservative styles, often in collaboration with associates. He was a leading architect in the design of the neo-classical James Madison Memorial building - designed in the mid-1960's and completed in 1982 - of the Library of Congress.
        He was also a managing partner of Jacobs, Poor & Eggers, the architectural firm that designed the United States Customs House in Foley Square in lower Manhattan.
        Mr. Poor is perhaps best known for one of his earliest works, the Wright Brothers Memorial, a winged pylon of granite that is anchored in the dunes at Kill Devil Hill in Kitty Hawk, N.C. Mr. Poor won an open international competition for the design of the memorial in 1928, with the New York architect Robert P. Rogers. Country and City Homes
        Mr. Poor was born in Baltimore in 1899, and grew up in New York City. He attended Harvard University and received degrees in architecture at the University of Pennsylvania. In the 1930's, he designed a number of Long Island country homes and was a chief architect on New York housing projects, including the 40-acre, $13 million Red Hook project, which Mayor LaGuardia opened in 1939.
        After the war, as a partner in the firm Walker & Poor, Mr. Poor designed dozens of branch offices in Manhattan and abroad for the Chemical, National City and Marine Midland banks. In 1958, the same firm, jointly with the firm William Gehron, designed the Queens County Court and Prison in Kew Gardens.
        From 1966 to 1977, Mr. Poor served as the president of the National Academy of Design in New York, during which time he organized the exhibitions surrounding the academy's 150th anniversary, in 1975. He retired in the late 1970's.
        He is survived by two sons, Charles Lane Poor of Washington and John Sheppard Poor of Locust, N.J., and a daughter, Nancy Poor, of Princeton, N.J.
      