
       Albert A. Raby, a former teacher in the public schools who became one of the most important civil rights leaders in Chicago in the 1960's, died there Wednesday night, apparently of a heart attack. He was 55 years old.
        Albert A. Raby, a former teacher in the public schools who became one of the most important civil rights leaders in Chicago in the 1960's, died there Wednesday night, apparently of a heart attack. He was 55 years old.
        Mr. Raby collapsed at the office of his consulting concern and was pronounced dead less than an hour later at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. It was the same hospital where Mayor Harold Washington, whose successful campaign to become Chicago's first black Mayor was managed by Mr. Raby, died on Thanksgiving eve a year ago after a heart attack.
        Mr. Raby played a crucial role in persuading the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to bring his Southern civil rights movement to Chicago in 1966 to fight the city's heavily segregated school system and housing patterns. While historians continue to debate whether the Chicago campaign was a defeat for Dr. King, many observers point to it as the beginning of a movement that resulted 17 years later in Mr. Washington's election. Fight for School Desegregation
        ''There is no question of the continuity between the two movements,'' the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who was a top King aide in Chicago at the time, said yesterday. ''And for the record to be accurately written, it must reflect Al Raby's contribution. He was probably the single biggest reason that Dr. King came to Chicago.''
        Mr. Raby, a Chicago native, was an active member of Teachers for Integrated Schools when, in 1962, he helped form the Coordinating Council of Community Organizations, an association of community groups that led the fight for school desegregation in the city.
        After serving as a Peace Corps official in Ghana in the Carter Administration, Mr. Raby managed Mr. Washington's successful mayoral campaign in 1983. He subsequently ran in the Democratic primary for Mr. Washington's Congressional seat but lost. Mr. Raby was appointed to the Human Relations Commission, leaving soon after Mr. Washington's death. 'A Steadying Influence'
        Most recently, Mr. Raby was co-chairman of a group of black and Jewish leaders formed to ease tensions strained earlier this year by anti-Semitic remarks made by a black aide to Acting Mayor Eugene Sawyer.
        ''Al was always a steadying influence for the city,'' said Rabbi Robert J. Marx, the Jewish co-chairman of the group. ''He had the wonderful ability to be compassionate and firm at the same time.''
        Mr. Raby was a partner in the Haymarket Group, a political and public relations consulting firm.
        He is survived by his daughters, Kathy and Allison, and two grandchildren.
      