
       Luis Barragan, an intensely private man who has long been considered Mexico's greatest architect, died Nov. 22 in Mexico City. He was 86 years old and had been ill with Parkinson's disease for many years.
        Luis Barragan, an intensely private man who has long been considered Mexico's greatest architect, died Nov. 22 in Mexico City. He was 86 years old and had been ill with Parkinson's disease for many years.
        Mr. Barragan won the Pritzker Prize, among architecture's most respected international honors, in 1980, and his work was the subject of a retrospective exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1976. Until those events, which occurred near the end of his career, the architect had been little known outside his native Mexico, although his serene and relatively modest buildings were widely respected by architects as being among the major works of contemporary architecture in Mexico. Modernism and Traditions
        The elegant, aristocratic Mr. Barragan did not design skyscrapers or large institutional buildings, but devoted most of his career to the design of houses, housing complexes, fountains, public plazas and monumental gates. His quest was to merge the spirit of modernism with the traditions of Mexican architecture, and while his work relied heavily on simple geometric forms and straight lines, it also emphasized rich color, stucco walls and private gardens.
        Mr. Barragan's architecture was at once sophisticated and primitive, and his spare, subtle juxtapositions of forms in space possessed an almost haunting quality. ''His magnificent fountains and carefully constructed plazas seem to stand as great architectural stages for the promenade of mythical beings,'' the architect Emilio Ambasz, who served as curator of the Museum of Modern Art exhibition, wrote of Mr. Barragan.
        Although he was trained as an engineer, not an architect, Mr. Barragan created buildings that were viewed by critics as among Mexico's most profoundly poetic structures. An intuitive designer, Mr. Barragan's greatest influences were the vernacular architecture of Mexican villages and the gardens of Spanish and Islamic architecture, all of which he reinterpreted with a modernist sense of composition. From a Family of Builders
        Luis Barragan, a native of Guadalajara, Mexico, was the child of a family of builders. He worked on his own in Mexico City, where his most influential work was probably a series of suburban housing developments that he initiated himself in the late 1950's and early 1960's, in some cases acting as developer, urban planner and architect. These suburban communities gave Mr. Barragan the chance to produce some of his most famous public monuments, like his fountains for Los Clubes, where water and shadow play against the intersecting planes of warmly colored walls, and a set of abstract towers, a fantasy skyline, at Satellite City in northern Mexico City.
        Mr. Barragan never worked in the United States, although he did design a studio for Francis Ford Coppola, the movie producer, that was never built.
        In the 1960's, he was invited by Louis Kahn, the American architect, who died in 1974, to collaborate on the design of the gardens and landscaping around the Salk Institute, the laboratory Mr. Kahn designed in La Jolla, Calif. Mr. Barragan reportedly turned that commission down, saying that he did not feel he could add anything to the Salk building's harsh natural setting beside the Pacific Ocean.
      