
       Stewart Parker, an Irish playwright whose play ''Spokesong'' was performed on Broadway at Circle in the Square in 1979, died of stomach cancer on Wednesday in London, where he lived. He was 47 years old.
        Stewart Parker, an Irish playwright whose play ''Spokesong'' was performed on Broadway at Circle in the Square in 1979, died of stomach cancer on Wednesday in London, where he lived. He was 47 years old.
        Mr. Parker once said he was ''born, raised, educated, married and scarred'' in Belfast, Northern Ireland, where he grew up in a working-class, Protestant area.
        ''Spokesong,'' as well as much of his work, dealt with the religious warfare that has kept Northern Ireland a battleground for most of this century. Writing in The New York Times, Richard Eder said that while the play was small and undoubtedly flawed, ''nothing I know has approached so closely an artistic vision of the subject.'' A Premiere in Dublin
        The play had its premiere at the Dublin Theater Festival in 1975 and was produced in London the next year. In the United States, it starred Joseph Maher and John Lithgow. It was presented at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven in 1978 and then at Circle in the Square. Billed as ''a play with music,'' it used the conceit of the history of the bicycle to mirror the conflict in Mr. Parker's country.
        Mr. Parker lost a leg to cancer when he was 19. He came to the United States at age 22 and taught at Hamilton College and Cornell University. He returned to Belfast in 1969 - ''the very week the troubles began in Northern Ireland,'' he once commented - and lived there for almost a decade. While writing his first play, he worked as a rock-music columnist for The Irish Times. Some Other Works
        He wrote plays for radio and television as well as for the theater. His other works include ''Northern Star,'' ''Catchpenny Twist'' (which was presented by the Hartford Stage Company in 1978), ''I'm a Dreamer, Montreal,'' ''Nightshade'' and ''Pentecost.'' Mr. Parker's companion of the last six years was Lesley Bruce.
        He is survived by his father, George Herbert Parker of East Belfast; a brother, George Herbert Parker, also of East Belfast, and a sister, Joan Parker Clemens of Rostrevor, Northern Ireland.
      