
       George Samuel Dively, a businessman and electrical engineer who built the Harris Corporation into a multibillion dollar electronics and communications company, died of a stroke Tuesday at Community Hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 85 years old and lived in Cleveland.
        George Samuel Dively, a businessman and electrical engineer who built the Harris Corporation into a multibillion dollar electronics and communications company, died of a stroke Tuesday at Community Hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 85 years old and lived in Cleveland.
        Born in Claysburg, Pa., Mr. Dively received an electrical engineering degree in 1925 from the University of Pittsburgh and graduated in 1929 from the Harvard Graduate School of Business.
        He joined the Harris-Seybold Company of Cleveland in 1937 at a time when it was a small manufacturer of printing equipment. He became director in 1941 and three years later was named vice president and general manager. In 1947, he was named president and from 1954 to 1961 held dual positions as president and chief executive officer. He remained as chief executive until his retirement in 1971.
        Under his management and through mergers and acquisitions, annual sales of the Harris-Intertype Corporation, as the company came to be known, jumped to more than $2 billion a year from $10 million a year and was one of the leading corporations in the electronic publishing industry.
        Mr. Dively, who was known as a hard taskmaster, was a director of the White Motor Corporation and as chairman of the board, helped the company to survive by restructuring it and bringing in a new chief executive.
        His no-nonsense style of leadership was summed up in a quote from a book he wrote in 1971, entitled ''The Power of Professional Management.''
        ''The leader must effect change, he must make things happen,'' he wrote.
        He was involved in Cleveland Now and Cleveland Tomorrow, two organizations trying to renew the city.
        He was a staunch supporter of education and in 1961 created the Corporate One Per Cent Program, whereby coporations were encouraged to contribute 1 percent of their pretax income to higher education.
        He is survived by his wife, Lilita Dively, of Cleveland; a son, Michael, of Traverse City, Mich.; three stepsons, Paul Howland, of Lansing, Mich., John Howland, of Glencoe, Ill., and Perry Howland, of Russell Township, Ohio; a sister, Jennie Gardner, of Holidaysburg, Pa.; and six grandchildren.
      