
       It was all very downtown, except that it was uptown, as about 220 of Jean Michel Basquiat's friends and admirers packed a Manhattan church yesterday to pay tribute to the artist who died in August at the age of 27.
        It was all very downtown, except that it was uptown, as about 220 of Jean Michel Basquiat's friends and admirers packed a Manhattan church yesterday to pay tribute to the artist who died in August at the age of 27.
        With monologues, music and poetry, a handful shared their memories of a man who had no formal art training, grossed millions of dollars in his brief career and fought endlessly for recognition.
        Many in the standing-room-only crowd at St. Peter's Lutheran Church on East 54th Street were dressed in black and leather, the current choice of the contemporary art world. A few wore high-top sneakers and colorful hats, and one woman drew tissues silently from a green ''Land of the Lost'' lunchbox.
        On the altar was a color photograph of Mr. Basquiat, who was born in Brooklyn, in front of a painting he created showing two angular human figures with the words, ''Nothing to be gained here.'' Regarded as a Genius
        For most, the afternoon service was the only formal expression of grief they had shared. Mr. Basquiat was found dead Aug. 12 in the East Village apartment he rented from Andy Warhol's estate.
        His funeral last summer was a mostly private affair, said Jeffrey Deutsch, a collector, critic and dealer of art.''The family wasn't comfortable with this whole world,'' Mr. Deutsch said, his eyes sweeping across the people at yesterday's service. He added that no one from Mr. Basquiat's immediate family was there.
        Regarded by many contemporary art experts as a genius, Jean Michel Basquiat was remembered as a man who pursued every aspect of his life with drive and devotion, including those that were destructive.
        ''He could be a jerk,'' Nancy Brooks Brody, who said she had known Mr. Basquiat since they were teen-agers, told the crowd. ''But he was a jerk with such incredible energy.'' She added: ''He put that same energy into taking drugs. He went out to the edge.'' 'He Would Make the Rules'
        The artist Keith Haring noted Mr. Basquiat's desire to control the art world, not be controlled by it. ''He disrupted the politics,'' Mr. Haring said. ''He said if he had to play their game, he would make the rules.''
        Ingrid Sischy, a critic who is a former editor in chief of Art Forum magazine, called Mr. Basquiat ''a rearranger of language and images - a discoverer, and a recoverer.'' His paintings often included words or phrases, and he once said he used words like brushstrokes.
        Ethel Redner Scull, the collector, was among the mourners. ''The world doesn't realize it has lost a great artist,'' she said after the service. ''Everybody keeps saying he was Andy Warhol's friend. But Andy needed Jean Michel. He was drained of his ideas. Jean Michel was filled with brilliant ideas.''
        A band called Gray performed songs dedicated to Mr. Basquiat, a former member. John Lurie played a haunting composition on his soprano saxophone. People wept at times, laughed at times, applauded and embraced each other.
        Jennifer Goode, another friend, drew laughter when she described Mr. Basquiat as someone ''who knew every White Castle hamburger joint in the five boroughs.'' She also said he was a man who, because he was black, ''couldn't get picked up by a cab to get to his own show.''
        She read a poem by Robert Frost, ''Acquainted With the Night,'' which concludes:
        And further still at an unearthly height
        One luminary clock against the sky
        Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.
        I have been one acquainted with the night.
      