
       Norman N. Newhouse, a senior executive with the Newhouse newspaper chain who helped his brothers build it into one of the nation's largest communications conglomerates, died yesterday at his home in New Orleans after a long illness. He was 82 years old.
        Norman N. Newhouse, a senior executive with the Newhouse newspaper chain who helped his brothers build it into one of the nation's largest communications conglomerates, died yesterday at his home in New Orleans after a long illness. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Newhouse was diagnosed as having leukemia in 1971, and his doctors told him that he had five years to live. But he was active in the family-owned company until a few months ago.
        A former editor of the Long Island Press in Jamaica, Queens, Mr. Newhouse was an old-style newspaperman who liked to arrive at his desk by 6 A.M. He had been based in New Orleans for the last 21 years, overseeing The Times-Picayune there, along with newspapers in Cleveland, Alabama and Mississippi.
        Like his brothers, the late Samuel I. Newhouse, and Theodore, Norman Newhouse did not have a formal job title. ''Nobody has titles in our family company,'' said his nephew, Richard Diamond, the publisher of the Staten Island Advance. ''He was part of the management from the very beginning, helped run and make and build us into what we are today.'' Entire Career in Newspapers
        The Newhouse holdings include 26 newspapers; Conde Nast Publications, which include Vogue, Vanity Fair, GQ and the New Yorker; Parade magazine; the Random House book publishing group, which includes Alfred A. Knopf, and a large cable television operation. But Mr. Newhouse spent his entire career where the family-owned business began, in newspapers.
        He got his start selling a newspaper his family did not own, The Bayonne Times. He was 5 years old when he began hawking copies on street corners for a penny each. S. I. Newhouse once said his brother realized he could sell more if he held up just one copy and said, ''Mister, please buy my last paper.'' Whether Mr. Newhouse's customers knew that the hard-nosed young vendor kept a whole stack of papers nearby was an open question.
        He also worked in the composing room at The Bayonne Times, at age 9, and was badly burned when molten lead used for casting Linotype bars dribbled on his leg.
        After graduating from New York University with a degree in history and geology and working as an editor on the student newspaper, Mr. Newhouse became a reporter at the Staten Island Advance, which S. I. Newhouse had bought in 1922. When the newspaper's political reporter was removed after it was disclosed that he was on the public payroll, Mr. Newhouse was named to the job. He later became city editor and then managing editor. Met His Future Wife
        He transferred to The Long Island Press as editor when it became part of the Newhouse chain in 1937. Mr. Newhouse met his future wife, Alice Gross, at The Press. At the time, she was a college student working as a reporter.
        Mr. Newhouse was ''a working editor,'' said David Starr, the publisher of the Newhouse newspapers in Springfield, Mass., who succeeded Norman Newhouse at The Press in 1967. ''He read copy, wrote headlines and went down to the composing room.''
        During World War II, Mr. Newhouse was a writer for the United States Army Air Corps. He was later sent to North Africa, where he became executive officer of the Office of Strategic Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. During four years of military service he rose from second lieutenant to lieutenant colonel and was awarded the Legion of Merit and the New York Distinguished Service Medal. The Italian Government made him a knight officer of the Order of Saints Maurice and Lazarus.
        In recent years, Mr. Newhouse had been responsible for The Cleveland Plain Dealer, The Birmingham News, The Mobile Press, The Mobile Register, The Mississippi Press in Pascagoula and The Huntsville (Ala.) Times and News.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice Gross Newhouse; a daughter, Robyn Newhouse of Springfield, Mass.; four sons, Mark, of Summit, N.J.; Peter, of New Orleans; Jonathan, of Manhattan, and David, of Watertown, Mass.; a brother, Theodore, of Manhattan; a sister, Estelle Newhouse Miron of Jamesburg, N.J., and six grandchildren.
        A funeral service has been scheduled for 1 P.M. Wednesday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue in Manhattan.
      