
       Adm. Cato D. Glover, a pioneer naval aviator who commanded the aircraft carrier Enterprise in heavy combat in the Pacific in World War II, died after a brief illness Saturday at the King James Nursing Home in Navesink, N.J. He was 91 years old and lived in Rumson, N.J.
        Adm. Cato D. Glover, a pioneer naval aviator who commanded the aircraft carrier Enterprise in heavy combat in the Pacific in World War II, died after a brief illness Saturday at the King James Nursing Home in Navesink, N.J. He was 91 years old and lived in Rumson, N.J.
        When Admiral Glover retired in 1957 after 41 years in the service, he was advanced to four-star rank. At the time, he was Acting Commander in Chief of Mediterranean naval forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        Admiral Glover was born in Centerville, Ala. and attended the University of Alabama before entering the Naval Academy in 1916. Action in the Pacific His long association with naval aviation started with his appointment to the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, where he earned his wings in 1922. He then joined a squadron of airborne scouts stationed aboard the U.S.S. Wright.
        He did post-graduate work in aeronautical engineering at the Naval Academy and, in 1931, was awarded a Master of Science degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He was executive officer of the Saratoga when it provided air cover for the invasion of Guadalcanal in August 1942 and was involved in heavy fighting in the Eastern Solomons.
        Captain Glover eventually joined the staff of Adm. Chester W. Nimitz as assistant war plans officer. He also was awarded a Bronze Star for distinguished combat service. Commanded the Enterprise
        In July 1944, he took command of the carrier Enterprise and won the Navy Cross and Silver Star Medal, among other citations, in action around the Bonin Islands, the Palaus, the Philippines, Taiwan, Okinawa and Leyte.
        Toward the end of the war, he was assigned to planning posts. One of the few high officers favoring unification of the Armed Forces, he served under Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther of the Army, the first director of the Joint Staff.
        After the war, he was promoted to Rear Admiral and Vice Admiral while serving in a number of positions in naval air and carrier operations in the United States and in Europe. In the early 1950's, he also was appointed the first Chief of Staff to the newly authorized NATO Command, the Supreme Allied Command, Atlantic.
        Admiral Glover is survived by a daughter, Sally Johnson of Rumson, N.J.; a brother, Williamson Glover of Demopolis, Ala.; eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      