
       Sean MacBride, an Irish revolutionary who went on to win the Nobel and Lenin peace prizes, died after a short illness yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 83 years old. In a 70-year career that took him from street battles with the British in Dublin to the international award-ceremony podium in Oslo, Mr.
        Sean MacBride, an Irish revolutionary who went on to win the Nobel and Lenin peace prizes, died after a short illness yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 83 years old. In a 70-year career that took him from street battles with the British in Dublin to the international award-ceremony podium in Oslo, Mr. MacBride's name was linked, often controversially, with such causes as Irish nationalism, a united Europe, nuclear disarmament and human rights.
        He was a joint winner, with former Prime Minister Eisaku Sato of Japan, of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1974. Mr. MacBride was honored for his work on behalf of human rights.
        Three years later, in ceremonies in Dublin, he received the International Lenin Prize for Peace Among Nations for his efforts to end what he once called ''this absolutely obscene arms race.'' In Journalism and Law
        The two awards made him only the second person to win both prizes, the first having been Dr. Linus Pauling of the United States.
        Mr. MacBride's career also embraced journalism, law, politics and diplomacy. He was Ireland's Foreign Minister from 1948 to 1951 and an Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations and United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, or South-West Africa, from 1973 to 1976.
        In Dublin yesterday, Prime Minister Charles Haughey called Mr. MacBride ''a statesman of international status who was listened to with respect throughout the world.''
        At the time of his death, Mr. MacBride was president emeritus of the International Peace Bureau in Geneva, a well-known peace organization. He had headed the bureau from 1972 to 1985. Amnesty International Founder
        A lifelong rights advocate, he was a founder of Amnesty International in 1961 and served as its chairman until 1975. Almost simultaneously, from 1963 to 1970, he was secretary general of the International Commission of Jurists and remained a member of that rights group until his death.
        Mr. MacBride was sometimes criticized from both ends of the political spectrum, by the right as being too close to the Kremlin in his views and by the left as secretly advancing American conservative interests.
        As recently as 1980, he raised hackles among some Western journalists and governments as the head of a study commission on world communications of the United Nations Educational, Social and Cultural Organization. The commission's report prompted fears that it would lead to greater government control of the press, particularly in third-world countries.
        Mr. MacBride came naturally to his youthful revolutionary inclinations. Born in Paris on Jan. 26, 1904, he was the son of Maj. John MacBride, a County Mayo man who formed the Irish Brigade that fought against the British in the Boer War and who was executed in 1916 by the British for his part in the Easter Uprising in Dublin. Educated in France
        The major's wife and Sean's mother was a beautiful Irish actress and revolutionary by the name of Maud Gonne, the daughter of a British army colonel. She was called the Joan of Arc of Ireland and was celebrated in the poety of William Butler Yeats, who at one time was in love with her.
        Sean MacBride was educated in France and remained there until 1916, when he and his mother managed to spirit themselves into Ireland. That year, at the age of 12, he joined the Irish Volunteers, forerunners of the Irish Republican Army. He was only a year older when he was arrested for the first of many times by the British, who sent him to prison three times - in 1918, 1922 and 1930.
        Mr. MacBride spent 20 years ''on the run'' with the I.R.A. and was 24 years old when he became chief of staff of the underground army. He ended his association with the I.R.A. in 1937.
        While fighting the British, he managed to earn a law degree at Dublin's National University. Mr. MacBride, who was admitted to the Irish bar in 1937, quickly became the most successful trial lawyer in Dublin. A brilliant pleader, he earned the coveted title of senior counsel in seven years; it usually took 15. From Law to Politics
        From law it was an easy step into Irish politics, dominated since 1932 by Prime Minister Eamon de Valera's Fianna Fail Party. Before the 1948 elections, Mr. MacBride formed a new and radical party, the Republican Party, and in cooperation with other opposition parties managed to unseat Mr. de Valera. His prize, the Foreign Ministry, took him into the international arena, which he never left.
        Mr. MacBride had been elected to Parliament in 1947 and served there until 1958. His party, however, disappeared as a political force in Ireland in 1965.
        As the United States-sponsored Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe after World War II was getting under way in the late 1940's, Foreign Minister MacBride was named in 1948 a vice president of the newly formed Organization for European Economic Cooperation, a forerunner of the European Economic Community. He held the post until 1951 and, during one year, 1950, also served as the president of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Council of Europe.
        In 1984, at the age of 80, Mr. MacBride took on another controversial issue. He was the chief sponsor of an antidiscrimination code known as the MacBride Principles. Aimed at forcing American companies operating in Northern Ireland to insure equal employment opportunities for Roman Catholics, the code was much debated there and in this country and Britain.
        Mr. MacBride's Argentine-born wife of 50 years, Catalina Bulfin, died in 1976. He is survived by a son, Tiernan, and a daughter, Anna.
      