
       Kingman Brewster Jr., president of Yale University from 1963 to 1977 and Ambassador to Britain from 1977 to 1981, died of a brain hemorrhage yesterday in John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England, a Yale spokesman announced in New Haven. Mr. Brewster was 69 years old and lived in Oxford, where he had been the master of one of Oxford University's colleges since 1986.
        Kingman Brewster Jr., president of Yale University from 1963 to 1977 and Ambassador to Britain from 1977 to 1981, died of a brain hemorrhage yesterday in John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England, a Yale spokesman announced in New Haven. Mr. Brewster was 69 years old and lived in Oxford, where he had been the master of one of Oxford University's colleges since 1986.
        Under Mr. Brewster - an alumnus of Yale College and Harvard Law School and a former Harvard law professor - Yale enhanced the quality of its faculty and student body and added new programs in various fields. The university won praise as having a first-rate academic program that was excellent in many areas. During his tenure, Yale enrolled more minority students and began admitting women as undergraduates.
        But by 1977, the year he stepped down from his Yale post, there was widespread criticism of his presidency and of university activities and policies in his era. Yale had various financial problems, including a deficit, having amassed more than $16 million in operating losses during the previous decade. Disenchantment Among Alumni
        Another problem that arose during Mr. Brewster's tenure was widespread ill feeling among alumni, caused largely by a decline in the number of their children admitted to Yale during the 1960's. And, during his tenure, many of the alumni - then numbering 90,000 and constituting an important source of financial support - came to believe that Mr. Brewster was too lenient toward antiwar protesters and people in the civil rights movement on the Yale campus.
        They were particularly nettled by Mr. Brewster's declaration, on April 24, 1970, that he was ''skeptical of the ability of black revolutionaries to achieve a fair trial anywhere in the United States.'' He said uncertainty on that point had ''been created by police actions and prosecutions'' against the Black Panthers ''in many parts of the country,'' and he called it ''one more inheritance from centuries of racial discrimination and oppression.''
        Mr. Brewster voiced that view in a statement issued during a Yale student strike, which initially had been called to obtain the university's support for eight Black Panthers who were then awaiting trial in New Haven on on murder and kidnapping charges.
        Some of his admirers called the statement a political masterstroke that helped ease a potentially explosive situation on the campus. He was widely given credit for having kept Yale relatively unified during several years of his presidency, when turmoil racked other universities in the country. 'Equity' and 'Excellence'
        Yesterday, the current president of Yale, Benno C. Schmidt Jr., issued a statement through the Yale spokesman, Walter Littell, saying: ''Kingman Brewster was the pre-eminent university president of his day - a man who stood for equity as well as excellence, change as well as continuity, and understanding as well as courage.''
        A former Yale president, A. Bartlett Giamatti, who is now president of the National League in professional baseball, said: ''He was an immensely distinguished educational leader. He had an extraordinary sense for the values of the university and for how they meshed with the public good.''
        The author William Zinsser wrote in 1977, while he was the master of one of Yale's residential colleges, that Mr. Brewster was ''a hero to me for his defense of the democratic decencies in the late 1960's and for holding his university together when others were cracking throughout the Ivy League.'' Affection of Students
        Mr. Brewster also won the affection of Yale students. During the 1977 graduation ceremonies, when he was awarded a surprise honorary degree, they chanted, ''Long live the King!''
        And he was admired for his skill with words, notably in arguing the advantages of a liberal-arts education. In one report, he said, ''Perhaps the most fundamental value of a liberal education is that it makes life more interesting.''
        ''It allows you to think things which do not occur to the less learned,'' he went on, and ''it makes it less likely that you will be bored with life.''
        He added, ''By analogy it makes the difference between the traveler who understands the local language and the traveler to whom the local language is a jumble of nonsense sounds.''
        An urbane 6-footer from an old New England family, he was a bundle of contradictions: He enjoyed ceremony and prized tradition, but, as a student editor, was critical of Yale's fraternities and senior societies. As Yale's president, he was widely considered a dull speaker, although in private he was a deft and irreverent mimic.
        When he left Yale, he became relatively inconspicuous as the United States Ambassador in London in the Carter Administration. ''My role,'' he said at the time, ''is trying to advise my Government on British attitudes and concerns in the fullest way possible.''
        He traveled extensively and had working lunches with influential and informed Britons from many fields of endeavor and walks of life. He talked to ordinary people in pubs, workers at factories, people in homes for the aged.
        After stepping down as Ambassador in 1981, Mr. Brewster began working with the New York-based law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts. In 1984, he became its resident partner in London. An Academic Abroad
        Then, in April 1985, he returned to academe: he was elected to a five-year term as master of the 736-year-old University College at Oxford, succeeding Lord Goodman when he assumed the post in 1986.
        It was unusual, though not unprecedented, for a post such as that of Master of University College to go to an American.
        Mr. Brewster ceased being a partner in his law firm and, on Aug. 1, 1986, became ''of counsel'' to it, which means that he thereafter had a contractual relationship with the firm. He still had that relationship to the firm at the time of his death.
        Mr. Brewster was born on June 17, 1919, in Longmeadow, a town near Springfield in southern Massachusetts. He was the son of Kingman Brewster Sr. - a lawyer who was descended from Elder William Brewster, who came to the Massachusetts Bay Colony from Nottingham, England, in 1620 -and the former Florence Foster Besse.
        When young Kingman was six years old, his parents were divorced, and he later lived in Cambridge, Mass., with his mother, who married a Harvard music professor, Edward Ballantine.
        He went on to attend the Belmont Hill School, outside Boston, before entering Yale College, where he majored in History, the Arts and Letters. He was the chairman of the undergraduate newspaper - The Yale Daily News - and graduated cum laude in 1941.
        Mr. Brewster then served briefly in Washington as special assistant coordinator for economics in the Office of Inter-American Affairs, directed by Nelson A. Rockefeller. Submarine-Hunting Patrols
        During World War II he was a Navy aviator and flew on submarine-hunting patrols over the Atlantic. After the war he entered Harvard Law School, becoming note editor and treasurer of the Harvard Law Review.
        After graduating magna cum laude from Harvard Law in 1948, he went to Paris as assistant general counsel to Milton Katz, the United States Special Representative in Europe for the Economic Cooperation Administration. In 1949 and 1950, he was a research associate in the economics department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Brewster returned to Harvard, where he served as an assistant professor of law from 1950 to 1953, when, at 34, he was promoted to full professor. He was an expert on antitrust matters as well as on international commerce and relations.
        During his Harvard years he was the author of ''Antitrust and American Business Abroad,'' published in 1958, and the co-author, with Mr. Katz, of ''The Law of International Transactions and Relations: Cases and Materials,'' which was published in 1960.
        That year, Mr. Brewster returned to Yale at the invitation of its then president, A. Whitney Griswold, who had taught at Yale when Mr. Brewster was an undergraduate. Both had spent many summers at Martha's Vineyard.
        From 1960 to 1963 Mr. Brewster was a professor of law at Yale as well as provost-designate and later provost -then the second highest officer of the university. Mr. Griswold died in April 1963, and Mr. Brewster assumed the duties of president as well as provost until late in the year he was formally elected president by Yale's trustees, who had deliberated for months. That period, he later recalled wryly, was ''a very itchy time.''
        As president, he weathered a succession of controversies, rejecting calls to dismiss the university chaplain, the Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., who was indicted for conspiring to counsel draft evasion, and Prof. Staughton Lynd, of the history department, who traveled to Hanoi. Inspired Doonesbury Character
        One student at Yale during the Brewster era was Gary Trudeau, the creator of the ''Doonesbury'' comic strip. Mr. Brewster became the inspiration for one Doonesbury character - the archetype of the activist college administrator - called President King.
        It was President Jimmy Carter who called Mr. Brewster and asked him to take the Ambassador's post as the successor to Anne Armstrong, a Texas Republican who had been appointed by President Gerald R. Ford. Mr. Brewster accepted and was succeeded as Yale's president by Mr. Giamatti, a Yale professor of English and comparative literature with a bachelor's degree and doctorate from Yale.
        As Ambassador, Mr. Brewster took - and voiced - a mellow, sophisticated, somewhat skeptical view of British-American relations. In one speech he summed it up tactfully in these words: ''It is the natural desire of each nation to use the other as an instrument of its own purposes and policies. By dint of our mutual dependence, your influence is amplified by our power. Our power is made more responsible and more effective by your influence.'' Chairman of Cultural Group
        After stepping down as Ambassador, Mr. Brewster became for several years the chairman of the English Speaking Union of the United States, a cultural and historical group.
        Over the years, he was a trustee of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and of Reuters, the news agency, and a director of Common Cause, the American Council of Learned Societies and the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies. He also was awarded many honorary degrees.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Louise Phillips, whom he married in 1942; three sons, Kingman 3d, of Fairfield, Vt., Alden, of Rio De Janeiro, and Riley, of Brunswick, Me.; two daughters, Constance Dedelow of Crown Point, Ind., and Deborah Brewster of Brooklin, Me., and seven grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held on the Yale campus on a date to be announced.
      