
       Kaikhosru Sorabji, the English composer and critic whose eccentric 36-year ban on the performance of his music became better known than the music itself, died of heart failure Oct. 15 in a nursing home in Dorchester, England. He was 96 years old.
        Kaikhosru Sorabji, the English composer and critic whose eccentric 36-year ban on the performance of his music became better known than the music itself, died of heart failure Oct. 15 in a nursing home in Dorchester, England. He was 96 years old.
        Mr. Sorabji, whose name originally was Leon Dudley, was born in Chingford, England, in 1892. As a young man he became interested in the Parsi heritage of his father, and changed his name.
        He was largely self-taught in music, and in the early 1920's gave piano recitals in major European capitals to promote his own compositions. These works tended to be long, complex late-Romantic effusions. The most famous (if more by reputation than exposure) is the ''Opus Clavicembalisticum,'' which is apparently the longest nonrepeating piano piece ever composed, lasting more than three hours. His piano scores are written on as many as seven staves instead of the usual two. Free With His Opinions
        In the 1920's and 30's Mr. Sorabji was active as an essayist and music critic, dispensing outspoken and cutting judgments (in 1932 he wrote that ''the great old art of true and beautiful singing has been replaced by a repulsive emotion pumping and a noisy voluminousness of tone''). He reserved particular venom for lexicographers who published his original name (they were motivated, he said, by ''the mean malice of the base-born for their betters'').
        But he also praised the music of composers who were obscure in his day and have since been valued more highly -Mahler, Alkan, Szymanowski, Medtner - as well as others who have remained obscure, notably Bernard van Dieren. He Imposes His Ban
        In 1940 Mr. Sorabji issued a ban on the performance of his music as being unsuitable under ''present or foreseeable conditions,'' and withdrew from active musical life. He continued to compose, and the list of his works in the New Grove Dictionary is long, though the vast majority, aside from early piano compositions, remain unpublished.
        Importuned by a cult following that had kept interest in his music alive, the composer lifted his ban in 1976 and a pair of pianists, Michael Habermann and Yonty Solomon, began to play and record his works. Since then, interest in Mr. Sorabji's music has spread somewhat, and other pianists, including John Ogdon and Marc-Andre Hamelin, have shown an interest in it.
        There are no survivors.
      