
       Before a gathering that included former President Richard M. Nixon, John N. Mitchell was eulogized today as ''a stand-up guy,'' a man who ''went through the most unfair, cruel treatment of a public figure in the life of this city.''
        Before a gathering that included former President Richard M. Nixon, John N. Mitchell was eulogized today as ''a stand-up guy,'' a man who ''went through the most unfair, cruel treatment of a public figure in the life of this city.''
        Mr. Mitchell, who was Mr. Nixon's law partner, confidant, Attorney General and campaign chairman, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the age of 75, 10 years and five months after he went to prison for conspiracy, obstruction of justice and lying under oath.
        On the witness stand more than a decade ago, Mr. Mitchell would say nothing about President Nixon's role in the Watergate conspiracy. And at the funeral today at St. Alban's Episcopal Church on the grounds of the National Cathedral, Mr. Nixon said nothing about Mr. Mitchell, the man called ''the big enchilada'' of his Administration.
        At the funeral, Mr. Nixon escorted Mary Gore Dean, Mr. Mitchell's longtime companion, and sat in the front pew of the church. But the former President did not attend the burial at Arlington National Cemetery, where the coffin of Mr. Mitchell, a naval officer and Silver Star winner in World War II, was borne by a caisson drawn by six white draft horses. The burial was accompanied by a three-gun salute. Many Associates on Hand
        Mr. Mitchell was buried in a plot just downhill from the tomb of the unknown soldier, next to the graves of the boxer Joe Louis, the actor Lee Marvin and Col. Gregory (Pappy) Boyington, the World War II aviator and holder of the Medal of Honor.
        The funeral was something of a quiet gathering of the Nixon clan. Some leading figures of the Nixon Administration like H. R. Haldeman, John D. Ehrlichman and Henry A. Kissinger did not come.
        But many of Mr. Mitchell's close associates did, including Robert C. Mardian, an Assistant Attorney General who was convicted at the same trial as Mr. Mitchell but whose conviction was overturned on appeal; Frederick C. LaRue, a political assistant who cooperated with prosecutors and testified against Mr. Mitchell; Dwight L. Chapin, a campaign assistant who went to prison for perjury; Rose Mary Woods, Mr. Nixon's personal secretary; Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary, and Jerris Leonard and Donald Santorelli, who served under Mr. Mitchell at the Justice Department.
        Mr. Mitchell's most prominent Assistant Attorney General, William H. Rehnquist, now Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, did not attend the funeral.
        Richard A. Moore, Mr. Mitchell's closest friend and his special assistant at the Justice Department, who testified on his behalf before the Senate Watergate Committee, delivered the eulogy. After saying that Mr. Mitchell had been treated unfairly, Mr. Moore said, ''The innate fairness of the American people will prevail in time, and he will be accorded the place in history he deserves.'' Nixon Lingers With Well-Wishers
        Mr. Nixon's bodyguards hurried him into a waiting room until it was time for him to escort Mrs. Dean down the aisle to the front pew. But after the funeral, he tarried briefly in the foyer outside, shaking hands with well-wishers and making small talk.
        It used to be said when they were in power that Mr. Nixon regarded Mr. Mitchell as something of an alter ego, the person he looked to for approval before he acted. In recent years, according to someone who had lunch with Mr. Mitchell last week, the two men talked often on the telephone.
        After he was paroled in early 1979 after 19 months at the minimum security prison at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, Mr. Mitchell lived quietly in Georgetown and owned or represented several small companies around the world, including some in waste management. A bond lawyer before he entered the Government, he was disbarred after his conviction.
        Unlike many of his contemporaries, Mr. Mitchell did not write his memoirs or grant interviews after he left office.
        A friend of Mr. Mitchell found it noteworthy that so many prominent people had come to pay their respects. ''They weren't ducking the camera,'' the friend said after the funeral. ''They were showing their affection for a man they thought was misunderstood and unfairly treated. This was a man who never made friends in the press but made some deep friends among his colleagues.''
      