
       Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, a World War II hero who later served as commander of United Nations forces in the Korean War, Supreme Allied Commander in Europe and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, died of kidney failure yesterday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 89 years old.
        Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, a World War II hero who later served as commander of United Nations forces in the Korean War, Supreme Allied Commander in Europe and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, died of kidney failure yesterday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 89 years old.
        General Lemnitzer, heavyset and 6 feet tall, preferred to work in his shirtsleeves, kept a messy desk and, as one old friend described him, was ''not the least bit uptight, considering he's a four-star general.''
        But he was a skilled and deft diplomat as well as a soldier, and when he was appointed as the fourth Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1960, he was variously described as ''brilliant,'' ''an expert planner'' and ''a man of moderation and tremendous dignity.''
        In World War II he took part in a series of daring secret missions that paved the way for the invasion of North Africa and later the surrenders of the Italian Army and German Army. In the Korean War he was decorated for gallantry for leading infantry troops through fierce battles. In the 1960's, as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he supervised the strengthening of American troops in Europe, in response to the Berlin crisis. Graduation From West Point
        Lyman Louis Lemnitzer was born Aug. 29, 1899, in Honesdale, Pa. The future general, one of three sons of German Lutheran descent, graduated 86th in a class of 271 cadets at West Point in 1921.
        He chose to serve in the coast artillery, in which he saw routine duty in the United States and the Philippines, then taught philosophy at West Point in 1934. In 1936, he graduated from the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., having won a reputation as a warm, scholarly, modest officer with an ability to get things done.
        In 1941, months before the United States entered World War II, Major Lemnitzer was assigned to the War Department's War Plans Division. By September 1942 he was a brigadier general assigned to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's staff in London as assistant chief of staff in charge of planning Operation Torch, the invasion of North Africa.
        That assignment led General Lemnitzer to one of three spectacular forays into diplomacy. He joined the secret mission, codenamed Torch and led by Gen. Mark W. Clark, that slipped into North Africa by submarine in 1942 to get in touch with French commanders who were willing to defy the collaborationist Vichy French Government to support the forthcoming Allied invasion. The Vichy Government controlled North Africa at the time. Some Narrow Escapes
        In his secret stay in Algeria, General Lemnitzer had some close calls. Once he had to hide in a wine cellar as the Axis-controlled Vichy police searched overhead at a clandestine meeting place near the port of Cherchel. Later, after a narrow escape in the British submarine that had brought the Torch party to its rendezvous, he was on his way to Torch headquarters on Gibraltar when his B-17 was attacked by three German fighter planes. His co-pilot was wounded but General Lemnitzer was not. He later received the Legion of Merit for his part in the mission to Algeria.
        General Lemnitzer, who was also serving as commanding general of the 34th Anti-aircraft Brigade, led it through the Tunisian campaign and in the early part of the Sicilian campaign. For the rest of the war he was United States Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief of Staff for Gen. (later Field Marshal) Harold Alexander of Britain, who was commander of the 15th Army Group and later Supreme Allied Commander for the Mediterranean.
        While serving with Field Marshal Alexander, General Lemnitzer continued to hone his skills as a diplomat and negotiator. He participated in secret negotiations with Italy's Premier, Pietro Badoglio, that led to Italy's surrender to the Allies in September 1943. General Lemnitzer later slipped into Switzerland to begin talks, behind Hitler's back, with members of the German High Command. The secret talks eventually led to the surrender of the German armies in Italy and southern Austria in May 1945. Comic Aspects of Mission
        Years later, General Lemnitzer recalled the ''somewhat comic aspects of the Swiss mission.'' He said he and a British intelligence officer, dressed in civilian clothes to avoid suspicion, pretended to be visiting the border town of Locarno to buy a dog. ''We chose a dachshund and took pains to let everyone see us walking it and buying dog biscuits,'' General Lemnitzer said. ''Meanwhile, we got in contact with Gen. Karl Wolff of the German Elite Guard to arrange the surrender meeting.''
        General Lemnitzer was the senior American officer present when Col. Gen. Heinrich von Vietinghoff-Scheel signed the documents marking the surrender of German forces in Italy and southern Austria.
        After the war General Lemnitzer held several posts in the Pentagon involving staff planning. In 1949 he became director of foreign military assistance for the new Department of Defense. In that post, he played a major role in directing the early flow of materiel to European nations arming to resist possible Soviet aggression.
        In 1950 General Lemnitzer was placed in command of the 11th Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, Ky., and at the age of 51 he qualified after a week as a rated paratrooper. But soon afterward he was recalled to Washington to represent the Defense Department in studies of military policy in Western Europe. Honors for Gallantry
        General Lemnitzer took command of the Seventh Infantry Division in Korea in 1952, leading it in the desperate battle of Heartbreak Ridge, the Punch Bowl campaign and in the Chorwon Valley. He won the Distinguished Service Medal and the Silver Star for gallantry in Korea. He was later assigned to command the Eighth Army in Korea, and in 1955 he was promoted to commander of all United States and United Nations forces in Korea and Japan.
        In that capacity General Lemnitzer, in his quiet way, helped build Japan's postwar defenses, and he was a key figure in the successful diplomatic byplay to keep strategic United States forces in Okinawa in the face of growing local opposition. Years later, the United States returned Okinawa to Japanese control.
        Of General Lemnitzer's Far East diplomacy, a fellow Army general said, ''What John Foster Dulles was in civilian clothes, Lemnitzer was in uniform.'' Push to Modernize Army
        Returning to Washington in 1957, General Lemnitzer became Army Vice Chief of Staff under his longtime mentor, Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, from whom he had inherited the United Nations Command in the Far East. Soon afterward, General Taylor retired and General Lemnitzer succeeded him. As a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Lemnitzer took a strong position in favor of a mobile, hard-hitting and lightweight Army, with more manpower and more airlift resources.
        In 1960 he was named Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In his tenure in that position, General Lemnitzer supervised the strengthening of American forces in Europe in reaction to the Soviets' creation of the Berlin Wall in 1961.
        Under General Lemnitzer's guidance, the United States Strike Command, now the United States Central Command, was created to place under a united command all combat forces of the United States Strategic Army and the Air Force Tactical Air Command.
        General Lemnitzer's last assignment, after his two-year tour as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was to be Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. He retired from active duty in 1969.
        The general was married to the former Katherine Mead Tryon in 1923, and they had two children, William L. Lemnitzer, an Army officer, and Lois Katherine Simpson, who married an Army officer.
        A funeral mass will be offered at 2 P.M. Tuesday in the Old Post Chapel at Fort Meyer, Va. Burial will follow in Arlington National Cemetery.
      