
       Takeo Miki, who advocated Japanese-American amity before Pearl Harbor and went on to spend half a century in Japanese politics, becoming Prime Minister in the 1970's, died yesterday. He was 81 years old and lived in Tokyo.
        Takeo Miki, who advocated Japanese-American amity before Pearl Harbor and went on to spend half a century in Japanese politics, becoming Prime Minister in the 1970's, died yesterday. He was 81 years old and lived in Tokyo.
        Mr. Miki was admitted to the State Hospital Medical Center in Tokyo on June 4, 1986, after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage at his Tokyo home that day. He was left partly paralyzed and had remained hospitalized until his death.
        The short, wiry and soft-spoken son of a village dealer in fertilizer, Mr. Miki attended to his political ties and rivalries as zealously as he pruned his persimmon and mandarin orange trees in an orchard outside Tokyo. Studied in the U.S.  The political harvests were notable, even early in his career. He gained re-election to Parliament during World War II, even though he had been denounced as pro-American for his stand before the war.
        Mr. Miki came to know the United States during the 1930's as a traveler and as a student at American University, Southwestern University and at the University of California.
        Back in Japan, he was elected to Parliament in 1937 and showed himself to be strongly pro-American, striving to forestall an American-Japanese war. He backed a peace rally in 1938 and set up an American-Japanese friendship organization in 1939.
        He remained on the political scene after the war, even as the American occupation forces removed many Japanese l figures from power. He came to be one of the main leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party, and was identified with the progressive wing of the party. 'Clean Politics'
        Mr. Miki became his party's chief and Prime Minister in 1974 after a compromise among rivals. In his first major speech he pledged to engage in ''honest, sincere and clean politics,'' and he said the party's internal affairs should be carried out so as to ''reflect the will of the people.''
        While holding the two top posts, he survived internal party struggles, the Lockheed bribery scandal, which left him untouched even as it wracked his party, and a thin legislative record. But Mr. Miki stepped down from both posts after the party fared poorly in a national election in 1976. ''I have accepted the verdict of the people,'' he said. ''They have sought a new political direction.'' He called for a revamping of the party and for new anti-corruption measures.
        Such was his political durability that by the following summer, after he had traveled widely and carried out consultations with other leading politicians, there was speculation that he might declare himself available to resume the party presidency. Always Outspoken
        Although politically skillful, Mr. Miki was seldom restrained in voicing his opinions. He broke with all four of his predecessors as Prime Minister, and he was outspoken as Foreign Minister from 1966 to 1968. As Deputy Prime Minister from 1972 to 1974, he was a proponent of better Japanese relations with the Arab nations, crucial sources of oil for his resource-poor country.
        In 1974, when the Liberal Democratic Party - a conservative group that had governed for two decades - seemed about to break apart, the party made him its leader in a deal between Masayoshi Ohira and Takeo Fukuda, the two rival bosses. His role was to try to hold things together.
        But his rule was punctuated by political infighting and by scanty legislative successes, although he did devise new rules to make the party's internal operations more democratic. During his tenure, the Japanese Government adopted its poicy of limiting military spending to no more than 1 percent of the gross national product. The continuing debate over whether to end this policy remains a dominant issue in Japan. Lockheed Scandal
        In the general elections of December 1976, the Liberal Democrats logged their worst showing since their party was formed 21 years earlier. It was hurt in part by an economic lull on the heels of a recession and by the bribery scandal, in which Government officials, including a former Prime Minister, Kakuei Tanaka, received money from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation.
        After the electoral debacle, it was reported that Mr. Miki was deprived of his power during behind-the-scenes maneuverings in his party. As one political analyst in Tokyo said, ''He was pushed out by a combination of other leaders.'' He announced his decision to quit the party leadership, and thus the Prime Minister's post, to ''take responsibility,'' as he put it, for the poor showing at the polls. He was succeeded by Mr. Fukuda.
        Even before the electoral setback, hostility among other chieftains of the Liberal Democratic Party was generated by Mr. Miki's personality, his relatively liberal stance within the party and his enthusastic backing for a probe, free of political interference, into the Lockheed bribery case. Held Many Posts
        Mr. Miki was the longest-serving member of his country's Parliament, the Diet. He served as Minister of Communications in 1947 and 1948; as Minister of Transport in 1954 and 1955; as director of the Economic Planning Agency in 1958 and 1959; as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission in 1961 and 1962; as Minister of Internal Trade and Industry in 1965 and 1966; and as director of the Environmental Agency from 1972 to 1974, while he was also Deputy Prime Minister. And in the years immediately following his time as Prime Minister, Mr. Miki continued to be active and powerful within his party.
        He leaves his wife, Matsuko Mori, whom he married in 1940, and two sons and a daughter.
      