
       Merryle S. Rukeyser, a financial columnist and editor who lectured widely in the United States and abroad, died of heart failure yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in White Plains.
        Merryle S. Rukeyser, a financial columnist and editor who lectured widely in the United States and abroad, died of heart failure yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in White Plains.
        For more than 30 years beginning in 1927, Mr. Rukeyser wrote a column on financial and business matters for the Hearst Newspapers and the Interntional News Service. For much of that period, he also wrote editorials that appeared in the Hearst papers. His syndicated column was carried by as many as 200 newspapers.
        Born in Chicago, he grew up in Manhattan and graduated from Townsend Harris High School at 16. While attending Columbia College, he paid his tuition by working part time for The Rockaway News in Queens and The Morning Telegraph in Manhattan.
        After graduating with a journalism degree, he went to work for The New York Tribune, and in 1920, at 23, he was appointed financial and business editor. Three years later, he was hired by William Randolph Hearst, who told him to ''humanize and simplify'' the coverage of financial news in The New York Evening Journal. Teacher and Writer
        He succeeded in broadening the appeal of financial articles to the general reader and was asked to become a columnist. As his column appeared in a growing number of newspapers, he branched out into broadcasting and lecturing about business and finance, and he became an adviser to corporations on making their annual reports to shareholders more comprehensible.
        Mr. Rukeyser taught at the Columbia School of Journalism from 1918 until 1935. Among the books he wrote were ''The Common Sense of Money and Investments,'' published in 1924, ''Investment and Speculation'' (1930) and ''Financial Security in a Changing World'' (1940).
        Mr. Rukeyser's first wife, the former Berenice Simon, died in 1964. He married Marjorie Leffler the next year. She died in 1974.  Surviving are four sons from the first marriage, M. S. Jr. of Manhattan, a publicity agent and longtime executive with NBC; Louis, of Greenwich, Conn., host of ''Wall Street Week'' on PBS; William, of Knoxville, Tenn., a former managing editor of Money and Fortune magazines, and Robert, of Larchmont, N.Y., a vice president of American Brands Inc., and nine grandchildren.
      