
       Johannes Steel, a newspaperman and radio commentator whose career was marked by controversy over his outspoken left-wing views and his often sensational political and economic predictions, died on Wednesday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 80 years old.
        Johannes Steel, a newspaperman and radio commentator whose career was marked by controversy over his outspoken left-wing views and his often sensational political and economic predictions, died on Wednesday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Steel, who came to the United States from Germany in the early 1930's, was foreign editor of The New York Post and a columnist for the short-lived Daily Compass. He was a political commentator for the radio stations WMCA and WHN and in recent years wrote a syndicated column on financial matters that appeared in The Waterbury Republican-American in Connecticut and in other newspapers.
        In 1965 he was convicted of 14 counts of stock fraud and sentenced to a year in prison for selling 1.2 million unregistered shares in Alaska International Corporation, which acquired oil, gas and mineral claims that were never succesfully developed. Federal prosecutors contended that investors lost $3 million, most of which went to Mr. Steel.
        In 1946, Mr. Steel ran unsuccessfully for the House of Representatives in a bitterly contested election in a district covering Manhattan's Lower East Side. He was the candidate of the American Labor Party, which arose from a split in the left wing of New York politics. Mr. Steel lost narrowly to a Democratic-Liberal opponent, Arthur G. Klein. Predicted Hitler's Purges
        Born Herbert Stahl, the son of an affluent German-Dutch landowner on the border between the two countries, he fled when Hitler took power. In 1934 he wrote for The Nation before joining The Post, where he gained the job of foreign editor by writing articles predicting, correctly, that Hitler would conduct a series of purges.
        Not all of his predictions were borne out; early in the Hitler years he said the downfall of the German dictator was imminent. But his crystal ball could be sensationally accurate: he predicted the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor a week before it occurred on Dec. 7, 1941. Forty-six years later, on Oct. 16, 1987, he wrote in his financial column that the stock market would crash. Three days later it did.
        Mr. Steel is survived by his wife, the former Rhys Caparn, a sculptor.
      