
       Sidney P. Spalding, a retired Army major general who directed lend-lease shipments to the Soviet Union in World War II and later served as vice chairman of the Army-Navy Munitions Board, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Reston Hospital Center in Virginia. He was 99 years old and lived at Patowmack Farm, Great Falls,
        Sidney P. Spalding, a retired Army major general who directed lend-lease shipments to the Soviet Union in World War II and later served as vice chairman of the Army-Navy Munitions Board, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Reston Hospital Center in Virginia. He was 99 years old and lived at Patowmack Farm, Great Falls, Va.
        General Spalding, an ordnance officer, was a native of Lowell, Mass., and a 1912 graduate of the United States Military Academy. He served in France in World War I and after the armistice was responsible for administration of relief supplies in Armenia and the Soviet Republics of Georgia and Azerbaijan.
        Before and in World War II he was involved in mobilizing industry from civilian to military production. In 1942 he headed a mission to develop a supply route to Russia through the Persian Gulf. The next year he was sent to North Africa to rearm French military forces there, after which he was named chief of the supply division of the United States Military Mission in Russia.
        After his service on the munitions board from 1946 to 1948, General Spalding was a military adviser to the National Security Council. He retired in 1951.
        General Spalding then became full-time operator of Patowmack Farm. It is currently the only active dairy farm in Fairfax County.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edith Ward; six daughters, Mary Behroozi of Racine, Wis., Susan Tolman of Readfield, Me., Caroline Spalding of Manassas, Va., Ellen Osborne of Conway, N.H., and Edith Alger and Lydia Drill, both of Patowmack Farm; and three sons, Sidney Jr. and Charles, both of Patowmack Farm, and Maj. Orlando Spalding of Langley Air Force Base, Va.
      