
       John M. Crawford Jr., a prominent collector of Oriental art and a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John M. Crawford Jr., a prominent collector of Oriental art and a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Scholars and art critics have described Mr. Crawford's collection as the largest and finest private assemblage of Chinese painting and calligraphy in the West. It has been compared with the collection formed by Charles Freer, which constitutes the Freer Gallery in Washington. Works from Mr. Crawford's collection have been exhibited in many museums, including the J. Pierpont Morgan Library and the Fogg Museum in Cambridge.
        ''I regard myself as a temporary custodian,'' Mr. Crawford once said, ''deeply conscious of his responsibilities.''
        Born in Parkersburg, W.Va., Mr. Crawford was the son of a manufacturer of oil-drilling equipment. A Book Collector First
        He graduated from Brown University. In 1941, Mr. Crawford went into publishing in Manhattan. He had then begun collecting books. ''The subtleties of typography,'' he explained in a New Yorker interview, ''paved the way for me to enjoy an art that is largely black and white.'' He began collecting art in 1946. In 1962, when the Morgan exhibited his collection, Mr. Crawford noted that he was then the only such collector of calligraphy.
        ''It was perfectly natural,'' Mr. Crawford wrote in a memoir on collecting, ''to collect the twin arts of Chinese painting and calligraphy, for both arts use the same materials and both are essentially based on the individual brushstroke.''
        Mr. Crawford also collected fine books, including medieval manuscripts and bindings done by William Morris, the leader of the English crafts movement of the 19th century. In 1975, Mr. Crawford gave his Morris collection to the Morgan Library.
        In 1981, Mr. Crawford gave 60 works, then estimated to be worth $18 million, to the Metropolitan Museum, which considerably enhanced the quality of the museum's collection. ''Where once we were woefully deficient, in comparison with other departments at the Met, we now have a well-rounded overview of the field,'' Philippe de Montebello, the museum's director, said at the time. Among the significant works were paintings from the Sung Dynasty, one of the highest periods of Chinese landscapes and flower paintings.
        In addition, he promised the museum the remainder of his collection, more than 200 works.
        Mr. Crawford was a former member of the board of trustees of Brown University, from which he had an honorary doctorate.
        Surviving is his sister, Elizabeth Ver Bryck, of Incline Village, Nev.
      