
       Noel Willman, the British actor-turned-director, best known in the United States for staging the Robert Bolt drama ''A Man for All Seasons,'' died of a heart attack on Saturday. He was 70 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Noel Willman, the British actor-turned-director, best known in the United States for staging the Robert Bolt drama ''A Man for All Seasons,'' died of a heart attack on Saturday. He was 70 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Friends of Mr. Willman said he was stricken at a neighborhood movie theater and died on the way to the hospital. They said he had been troubled by a heart condition for about a year.
        A native of Londonderry, Northern Ireland, Mr. Willman reached Broadway in 1951 playing Monsieur Henri in ''Legend of Lovers'' opposite Richard Burton and Elizabeth Ashley.
        In 1954, Mr. Willman appeared as Lord Byron in the film ''Beau Brummell,'' starring Elizabeth Taylor, Peter Ustinov and Robert Morley.
        He made his American television debut in 1958, in Terence Rattigan's ''Winslow Boy'' on the ''Dupont Show of the Month.''
        Mr. Willman also won critical acclaim on Broadway in 1959 with Claire Bloom and Rod Steiger in ''Rashomon'' by Fay and Michael Kanin. 'A Man for All Seasons'
        But Mr. Willman's reputation soared in 1961 with ''A Man for All Seasons,'' which he directed both in London and on Broadway, earning him a Tony Award.
        Mr. Willman gave up the actor's life and turned to directing, he said, on the advice of Tyrone Guthrie, his mentor. Mr. Willman staged the S. J. Perelman play ''The Beauty Part'' in 1962, directing Bert Lahr in multiple roles.
        He directed ''A Lion in Winter,'' with the actors Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris, on Broadway in 1966. He also staged a $700,000 musical, ''Darling of the Day,'' in 1968, which played 32 performances and became Broadway's most expensive failure of the day.
        Mr. Willman last directed two limited New York engagements by Katharine Hepburn, ''A Matter of Gravity'' in 1975 and ''West Side Waltz'' in 1981.
        Among Mr. Willman's last public appearances was a reading of Dickens's ''Christmas Carol'' at a benefit for the South Street Seaport Museum six years ago.
        Mr. Willman attended school in Ireland and France and studied at the London Theater Studio. He toured England as assistant stage manager for a celebrated revival of ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' with John Gielgud and Edith Evans. He made his acting debut in Peter Ustinov's first play, ''House of Regrets.''
        Mr. Willman is survived by a sister.
      