
       Anthony R. Gaeta, a former borough president of Staten Island, died of heart failure on Monday at Staten Island Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived on Staten Island.
        Anthony R. Gaeta, a former borough president of Staten Island, died of heart failure on Monday at Staten Island Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived on Staten Island.
        Mr. Gaeta headed the borough government from 1977 through 1984. He later entered the insurance-brokerage business.
        A lifelong resident of Staten Island, he began his public-service career in 1949 as a tax assessor after attending New York University and Cornell University. He later became an aide to Rep. John M. Murphy, Democrat of Staten Island.
        He was elected to the City Council in 1972 and five years later was chosen as borough president by his fellow Council members to fill a vacancy created when Robert T. Connor left to take a job in the Carter Administration. Later that year Mr. Gaeta was elected on the Democratic and Conservative tickets to a full term and won re-election in 1981. Low-Key Style
        During his terms in elected office, Mr. Gaeta pursued a quiet, low-key style but fought doggedly for his borough's interests. He vigorously opposed efforts to revamp the Board of Estimate, on which he cast a vote equal to that of the presidents of each of the city's other boroughs, despite their larger populations.
        Mr. Gaeta resigned a year before the end of his second term and was appointed chairman of the New York City Retirement System, a post he held for 16 months. In mid-1985 he became vice president of R.J.W. Brokerage, a Staten Island insurance concern. He was was also a director of the Staten Island Community Bank.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Olga Pena; a daughter, Susan Demkin of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Robert, of Staten Island; two brothers, Leonard, of Long Beach, Calif., and John, of Staten Island, and four sisters, Mary Eusebi, Kay Burzillo, Rose Gaeta and Janet Gaeta, all of Staten Island.
      