
       Glenn McCarthy, whose flamboyant career helped define the Texas oilman to the world, died Monday at a Houston nursing home. He had turned 81 on Sunday.
        Glenn McCarthy, whose flamboyant career helped define the Texas oilman to the world, died Monday at a Houston nursing home. He had turned 81 on Sunday.
        The wild rise of Mr. McCarthy from an oilfield laborer to one of the richest men in Texas inspired the Edna Ferber novel ''Giant'' and the movie of the same name. For years the best-known figure in the oil business, he had lived quietly near Houston in recent years and entered a nursing home earlier this year.
        Back when H. L. Hunt was little known outside Texas, Glenn Herbert McCarthy was the most famous oilman in the state.
        Mr. McCarthy, the son of an itinerant oilfield worker, was born in 1907 near the Spindletop field that ushered in the modern Texas oil industry. He worked in the oilfields as a young boy and dropped out of college to go into business for himself. At the age of 23, he married the 16-year-old daughter of the Texas oilman T. P. Lee. First Strike a Big One
        He started in the oil business soon after and became a millionaire at the age of 26, when he hit his first major strike on a drilling site condemned by other companies. Mr. McCarthy went on to drill more than 1,000 oil and gas wells in Texas and places as far away as Egypt and Bolivia.
        Mr. McCarthy's business interests included a 15,000-acre West Texas ranch, a chain of neighborhood newspapers, office buildings, a natural gas company, a Detroit steel mill, a chemical company and other businesses. In 1949, his wealth was estimated at $200 million.
        But his best known venture outside oil was the Shamrock Hotel, a $21 million, 18-story monument decorated in 63 shades of green, that was ridiculed as a rich man's folly when he built it in 1949 on what was then vacant pasture five miles from downtown Houston. It featured such attractions as a 1,000 car-garage offering four kinds of gasoline and a pool supposedly big enough for water skiing.
        A crowd of 2,000 celebrities from around the world, including Texas oilmen such as Sid Richardson and Hollywood celebrities like Errol Flynn, turned out for an opening night party that cost $1.5 million and received live national radio coverage. Made Cover of Time
        But the opening of the Shamrock was the peak of his fame, and in the 1950's, he had to sell some of his properties to pay mounting debts. The hotel was sold to the Hilton chain in 1954. Amid widespread public disapproval, it was razed last year.
        Mr. McCarthy was one of the first of the Texas oilmen to gain national fame, and his hyperbolic personality came to sum up an entire industry. When Time magazine ran a cover story on him when he was 42, it described him as looking like ''nothing so much as a Hollywood version of a Mississippi River gambler - a moody and monolithic male with a dark Civil War mustache, a cold and acquisitive eye, and a brawler's shoulder-swinging walk.''
        One longtime associate, Jim Clark, said Mr. McCarthy more than lived up to to his image. ''Nobody will ever write the real story of Glenn McCarthy,'' Mr. Clark told James Presley in ''A Saga of Wealth,'' a history of Texas oilmen. ''That guy in the show 'Giant' was a sissy. He didn't have any flamboyance. He didn't fight. He didn't do anything compared to what Glenn did.''
        Mr. McCarthy is survived by his widow, Faustine, of La Porte, Tex.; four children, Glenn Jr. of Houston, Glenna Lee Satterfield of Terrell, Tex., Leah McCurry of Houston and Faustine Garbrecht of Oklahoma City; a brother, William J. McCarthy of Houston; a sister, Betty Frank of Houston; 17 grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      