
       Adm. Alfred M. Pride, a pioneer of aircraft carrier operations who led major strikes against the Japanese in World War II, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at the home of his daughter in Arnold, Md., where he was visiting. He was 91 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
        Adm. Alfred M. Pride, a pioneer of aircraft carrier operations who led major strikes against the Japanese in World War II, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at the home of his daughter in Arnold, Md., where he was visiting. He was 91 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
        Admiral Pride commanded the aircraft carrier Belleau Wood in the South Pacific, conducting air strikes against the Japanese in the major campaigns from Tarawa, Wake and Makin Islands to Kwajalein, Truk, Saipan and Tinian. He also commanded the Naval Air Center at Pearl Harbor, directed air support for amphibious landings and played a major role in planning for the invasion of Okinawa and the Japanese home islands.
        As a young airman in 1922 he was one of the first pilots to touch down on the world's first aircraft carrier, a converted coal ship renamed the Langley. He later served aboard the Saratoga and the Lexington, the only two large carriers the United States was permitted to have under disarmament treaties after World War I. After World War II he headed the Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington and in 1953, still an active pilot who had been flying longer than any other naval officer, was selected to command the Seventh Fleet. He retired in 1959. Early Years as a Pilot
        A native of Somerville, Mass., he attended Tufts College but quit in 1917 to enlist in the Navy when the United States entered World War I. He flew French Nieuports from a short runway built over the forward gun turret of the battleship Arizona, and later he flew British Sopwith Camels.
        While aboard the Langley he devised an arresting gear to prevent landing aircraft from going over the end of the deck. Impressed with his inventiveness, the Navy sent him to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the late 1920's to study aeronautical engineering.
        In 1931 he made the first landing of an autogiro, now called a helicopter, on an aircraft carrier. The landing was made to demonstrate that such aircraft could alight without the assistance of a landing crew.
        A few years later, while commanding the flight test section at the Anacostia Naval Air Station in Washington, a plane he was piloting crashed and he was severely injured. Doctors wanted to amputate his left leg but he refused; the injury left him with a permanent limp, but he was soon flying again. By the end of his career, the admiral had flown virtually every aircraft used by the Navy.
        His wife, the former Helen Burrell, died in 1986. He is survived by their daughter, Carol P. Lemeshewshy, of Arnold; their son, Alfred, of Olympic Valley, Calif.; two sisters, Emily Truesdale of Londonderry, N.H., and Alice Kingston of Clearwater, Fla.; a brother, Robert, of Palm Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 31, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary on Thursday about Adm. Alfred M. Pride, an early naval aviator, described the autogiro incorrectly. A precursor of the helicopter, the autogiro had a conventional propeller for forward propulsion and a freely rotating blade above the fuselage to provide lift.
      