
       Jess Oppenheimer, a radio and television producer, director and writer who helped create one of television's most successful situation comedies, ''I Love Lucy,'' died of heart failure on Tuesday after intestinal surgery at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 years old.
        Jess Oppenheimer, a radio and television producer, director and writer who helped create one of television's most successful situation comedies, ''I Love Lucy,'' died of heart failure on Tuesday after intestinal surgery at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Oppenheimer, Bob Carroll Jr. and Madelyn Pugh Davis wrote ''I Love Lucy'' in 1951 in response to a request from a CBS executive, Harry Ackerman, to create a show for Lucille Ball and her husband, Desi Arnaz. In 1948, Mr. Oppenheimer was the producer and director of ''My Favorite Husband,'' a radio show starring Miss Ball and written by him, Mr. Carroll and Miss Pugh. He was the head producer and writer of the first 153 episodes of ''I Love Lucy,'' which was the most popular show on television for four of its six seasons.
        Mr. Oppenheimer began his career in broadcasting in 1936, writing radio shows at $125 a week. He wrote for ''The Packard Hour'' with Fred Astaire and Charlie Butterworth and the ''Jack Benny,'' ''Chase & Sanborn,'' ''Baby Snooks,'' ''Edgar Bergen'' and ''Screen Guild'' shows. 5 Years With 'Lucy'
        Mr. Oppenheimer spent five years with ''I Love Lucy,'' leaving after the 1955-56 season to join NBC as a programming executive. He produced the ''General Motors 50th Anniversary Show'' in 1957 and segments of the ''U.S. Steel Hour'' and ''Chrysler Theater.'' He also produced the 1967-68 season of ''Get Smart.''
        Mr. Oppenheimer was born in San Francisco. As a youngster, he was in a Stanford University program for California's 1,400 brightest children, which was run by Prof. Lewis M. Terman, a creator of the I.Q. test. Later Mr. Oppenheimer displayed a penchant for invention, and was the holder of more than 20 patents, including one for an in-the-lens prompter, similar to the Teleprompter, that has been used in Britain.
        He is survived by his wife, Estelle; a daughter, Jo Davis, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a son, Gregg, of Los Angeles; a sister, Janice Wolk, of Sarasota, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      