
       William Exton Jr., a management consultant who wrote, lectured and taught widely on business subjects, died Monday at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., after being injured in an automobile accident. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Millbrook, N.Y., where he operated a dairy farm.
        William Exton Jr., a management consultant who wrote, lectured and taught widely on business subjects, died Monday at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., after being injured in an automobile accident. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Millbrook, N.Y., where he operated a dairy farm.
        Mr. Exton, who was president of the Institute of General Semantics, had recently returned from a trip to Asia, where he lectured and attended meetings of the International Society of Management Consultants, of which he was a fellow.
        A graduate of Harvard with a master's degree in educational psychology from Teachers College at Columbia University, he served in the United States Navy for six years. During World War II he held posts in audio-visual communications and later led landing assaults in the Pacific. Invented Instruction Aids
        A specialist in sales techniques and in motivation, he invented a number of aids to instruction. In 1958 he received a patent for a chart calculated to keep employees attentive during lectures on company benefits.
        The circular chart depicted the individual employee at the center and a series of hazards facing him -sickness, injury, war, old age and death - on the rim. As the lecture proceeded, a descriptive sheet displaying the appropriate company benefit would materialize between the employee and the hazard.
        Among Mr. Exton's books were ''Dynamics of Management,'' published in 1960; ''Clerical Errors: Their Cost and Cure'' (1970), ''The Art of Motivating'' (1972), and ''Motivational Leverage: A New Approach to Managing People'' (1975).
        Mr. Exton is survived by a brother, John, of Manhattan.
      