
       Max L. Heine, a founder and chairman of leading mutual funds and president of the Heine Securities Corporation, died Friday after being struck by an automobile in Tucson, Ariz., where he was vacationing. He was 77 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I.
        Max L. Heine, a founder and chairman of leading mutual funds and president of the Heine Securities Corporation, died Friday after being struck by an automobile in Tucson, Ariz., where he was vacationing. He was 77 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I.
        Mr. Heine founded the Mutual Shares Corporation in 1949, adding Mutual Qualified Income Fund Inc. in 1980. In 1985, the firm acquired Mutual Beacon Fund Inc., which was geared to a more substantial investor. All three funds have outperformed the market, according to analysts, partly by investing in bankruptcies, mergers and other forms of corporate restructuring.
        In July 1986, the funds participated in the leveraged buyout of R. H. Macy & Company and bought 10 percent of the company's equity. The funds also hold a large investment in CBS.
        Mr. Heine's investment strategy was to buy undervalued stocks, in search of a 15 percent yearly return despite market fluctuations. The most common mistake of investors, he said, was ''the temptation to take profits and the unwillingness to take losses.''
        Born in Berlin, Mr. Heine emigrated to New York in 1934 and immediately entered the securities business at L. J. Marquis & Company, where he became a partner.
        In 1976, he joined Herzog Heine Geduld Inc., members of the New York Stock Exchange, as chairman. He retired in 1986, remaining president of the Heine Securities Corporation.
        His wife, the former Charlotte Hirsch, died before him.
        Mr. Heine is survived by three daughters, Doris Grunwald of Greenvale, N.Y., Karin, of Wheatridge, Colo., and Peggy, of Manhattan; a sister, Ilse Baum of Great Neck, L.I., and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
      