
       James Ray, an actor in theater, television and films who appeared in productions of the New York Shakespeare Festival and the American Shakespeare Festival, died of a heart attack last Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old.
        James Ray, an actor in theater, television and films who appeared in productions of the New York Shakespeare Festival and the American Shakespeare Festival, died of a heart attack last Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Ray took the title role in ''Henry V'' for Joseph Papp in Central Park in 1960 in a cast that also featured Edward Asner and James Earl Jones. He starred as Ferdinand in ''Love's Labour's Lost'' in the park in 1965 and played King Henry IV in both parts of ''Henry IV'' at the Delacorte Theater in 1968 with Sam Waterston as Prince Hal and Stacy Keach as Sir John Falstaff.
        Mr. Ray was born in Oklahoma and studied at Oklahoma A&M, now Oklahoma State University. He made his New York debut as the Witchboy in Circle in the Square's production of ''Dark of the Moon'' and was Lvov in ''Ivanov'' Off Broadway in 1959. He was Roddy McDowall's understudy in ''Compulsion'' on Broadway and appeared with George C. Scott in ''The Wall.''
        On Broadway in 1964, he was Dylan Thomas's poet friend John Malcolm Brinnin opposite Alec Guinness in ''Dylan.'' In 1971, he appeared in Edward Albee's ''All Over'' at the Martin Beck Theater. His roles during the 1960's at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., included Prince Hal in ''Henry IV, Part I'' (with Philip Bosco and Hal Holbrook), Edgar to Morris Carnovsky's ''King Lear'' and King Henry in ''Henry V.''
        He also appeared in Harold Pinter's ''Collection'' at the Cherry Lane Theater in 1962. In 1964, he was Mephistophilis in the Phoenix Theater's production of ''The Tragical Historie of Dr. Faustus.''
        Mr. Ray acted on screen in ''Mass Appeal'' and ''New York, New York,'' and on television in ''Roots'' and ''The Winds of War.'' In Los Angeles he performed at the Mark Taper Forum.
        He is survived by three sisters, Pauline Wilkins and Jo Ray of Cochiti Lake, N.M., and Avis Smith of Bokchito, Okla., and a brother, Sherman, of Houston.
        A memorial service will be held Jan. 7 at the Matrix Theater in Los Angeles.
      