
       Roy Orbison, the singer and songwriter whose best work brought introspection and yearning to rock-and-roll, died of a heart attack Tuesday night while visiting his mother in Hendersonville, Tenn. He was 52 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif.
        Roy Orbison, the singer and songwriter whose best work brought introspection and yearning to rock-and-roll, died of a heart attack Tuesday night while visiting his mother in Hendersonville, Tenn. He was 52 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif.
        Mr. Orbison was taken by ambulance to Hendersonville Hospital late Tuesday, but could not be revived and died just before midnight, Melanie Lamb, a spokeswoman for the hospital, said.
        One of rock's most gifted singers, Mr. Orbison possessed a clear tenor that soared into an angelic falsetto. In a string of hits from the late 1950's through the mid-1960's, he moved between two styles - uptempo rockabilly songs like ''Oh, Pretty Woman,'' which he also wrote, and dramatic ballads of isolation and longing, including ''Only the Lonely'' and ''Blue Bayou.'' Sunglasses and a Pompadour
        Characteristically dressed in black leather, with dark sunglasses and his hair slicked into a pompadour, Mr. Orbison was an introverted, untheatrical performer, but his voice was riveting. Although he was at home in bluesy rock, in his most memorable songs Mr. Orbison transmuted fear and insecurity into pop anthems.
        ''He was and always will be one of the greats of rock-and-roll,'' Paul McCartney, a former Beatle, said yesterday in London.
        Mr. Orbison had begun a comeback in the 1980's. As a member of the Traveling Wilburys, a group that includes Bob Dylan and the former Beatle George Harrison, Mr. Orbison sang the group's current single, ''Handle With Care.'' A new Orbison album for Virgin Records had been scheduled for February. The 'Underside of Pop Romance'
        Bruce Springsteen, speaking in 1987 when Mr. Orbison was inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame, said, ''Some rock-and-roll reinforces friendship and community, but for me, Roy's ballads were always best when you were alone and in the dark.''
        Mr. Springsteen also pointed out that Mr. Orbison was an unconventional songwriter. ''Roy scrapped the idea that you needed verse-chorus-verse-chorus-bridge-verse-chorus to have a hit,'' he said. ''His arrangements were complex and operatic. They had rhythm and movement, and they addressed the underside of pop romance. They were scary. His voice was unearthly.'' It Began With 'Ooby Dooby'
        Roy Kelton Orbison was born in Vernon, Tex., on April 23, 1936, and grew up in Wink, Tex. He began singing and playing guitar professionally in his teens with the Wink Westerners, a country band, and after two years at North Texas State University, he dropped out and started a rockabilly band called the Teen Kings. He became the host of a local television show, and recorded ''Ooby Dooby'' (written by two fellow North Texas State students) for a local label.
        On the advice of the country singer and songwriter Johnny Cash, he signed with the blues-and-rockabilly label Sun Records in Memphis, and a new version of ''Ooby Dooby'' became a modest hit in 1956.
        But the uptempo rockabilly style was unsuccessful for Mr. Orbison, and he turned to songwriting. ''Claudette,'' named after his wife, was a hit for the Everly Brothers, and Mr. Orbison began writing songs for Acuff-Rose Publishing in Nashville. In 1960, he returned to recording and quickly found his signature style singing ''Only the Lonely,'' a Latin-tinged ballad (written with Joe Melson) that climbs more than an octave in its last verse; it sold two million copies. Through the early 1960's, the hits continued: ''Running Scared,'' ''Crying'' and ''I'm Hurting'' in 1961; ''Dream Baby'' and ''Leah'' in 1962; ''In Dreams,'' ''Falling'' and ''Blue Bayou'' in 1963; ''Oh, Pretty Woman'' and ''It's Over'' in 1964, and ''Goodnight'' in 1965. Tragedies in the Family
        After Claudette Orbison's death in a 1966 motorcycle accident, Mr. Orbison stopped writing songs; in 1968, a fire at his Nashville home killed two of the couple's three children. Mr. Orbison remarried in 1969 and performed steadily through the 1970's, although his string of hits had ended. He had open-heart surgery in 1979.
        In the 1970's, performers including Linda Ronstadt, with ''Blue Bayou,'' and Don McLean, with ''Crying,'' helped to bring a new popularity to songs Mr. Orbison had recorded. During the 1980's, Mr. Orbison's career was revived with the help of musicians he had influenced.
        In 1985, he rerecorded a double album of his hits; in 1987, a new version of ''In Dreams'' was featured in the soundtrack of the film ''Blue Velvet.'' Mr. Orbison was inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame, and early this year he was featured in a Cinemax cable-television special, accompanied by Mr. Springsteen, Elvis Costello and Jackson Browne.
        This year, Mr. Orbison joined Mr. Dylan, Mr. Harrison, Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne of the Electric Light Orchestra to form the Traveling Wilburys, whose album, ''Traveling Wilburys, Volume I'' (Warner Brothers), is No. 8 on the Billboard album chart. Mr. Orbison gave a concert Sunday in Akron, Ohio, before 2,000 people.
        Mr. Orbison is survived by his second wife, Barbara; three sons, Wesley of Hendersonville, and Roy Jr. and Alexander of Malibu; his mother, Nadine Orbison of Hendersonville, and a brother, Sam.
      