
       Henri Peyre, the Sterling Professor of French Emeritus at Yale University, a scholar, writer and teacher, died of heart failure yesterday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Henri Peyre, the Sterling Professor of French Emeritus at Yale University, a scholar, writer and teacher, died of heart failure yesterday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Professor Peyre (pronounced pair) wrote more than 30 books in English and French on topics ranging from French classicism and modern literature to higher education in the United States. Until recently, he produced a stream of witty, provocative articles and book reviews for The New York Times.
        As a teacher, Professor Peyre said, he tore up his notes after each lecture, ''so I won't repeat myself each year.''
        ''One of the most colorful and adventurous professors at Yale University,'' he was called when he retired at the mandatory age of 68. In a student guide, one comment was: ''The educational value of French 52, in the hands of Henri Peyre, sometimes becomes so great that it cannot be purchased with the debased currency of the ordinary mind.'' 'We Teach What We Are'
        ''Scholarship must be hardy and rash,'' Professor Peyre said. ''It must take risks, and we must commit ourselves to judge the present. When we teach, we teach what we are, not really what we know and not always what we think.''
        As the Sterling Professor from 1938 to 1969, Mr. Peyre was also chairman of the department of romance languages. Yale officials said that under Mr. Peyre's leadership, the department was ranked first in the nation several times by the American Council on Education.
        In 1969, with campus unrest welling over the war in Vietnam, Professor Peyre said he thought greater emphasis on the humanities might be a quieting influence. ''These studies can open windows for students and can help them understand motives that have moved men in the past,'' he said.
        A quintessential Frenchman, Professor Peyre said in an interview in Newsweek, when Yale was still an exclusively male bastion:
        ''The only sport I enjoy is conversing with women. Most of life is a purely nuance affair, and women help men realize this. Yale is much too masculine a place.'' At Egyptian U. and CUNY
        Born in Paris, he graduated from the Ecole Normale Superieure and the Sorbonne and had a doctorate from the Universite de Paris. From 1925 to 1928, he taught at Bryn Mawr College.
        He joined Yale in 1928 and left in 1933 to become professor of French literature at the Egyptian University in Cairo. In 1938, Professor Peyre returned to New Haven. On his retirement, he joined the City University of New York Graduate Center as a Distinguished Professor. He retired in 1980.
        His books included ''French Novelists of Today,'' ''The Contemporary French Novel'' and ''Literature and Sincerity.'' In 1968 alone, he published five books.
        When Professor Peyre received a grant from the American Council of Learned Societies in 1954, he said he hoped to use the money for research on a book. He had already written 14. Member of Learned Societies
        Professor Peyre was an officer of the Legion d'Honneur. In 1963, he was a member of the National Commission on the Humanities.
        He was a former president of the Modern Language Assocation and of the American Association of Teachers of French, a former member of the board of the American Council of Learned Societies and a former member of the Philosophical Society. Professor Peyre was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Before he stopped accepting honorary degrees in the 60's, Professor Peyre had received them from Tufts, Oberlin, Rice, Middlebury and Rutgers, among others. He was a former board member of the Lycee Francais in Manhattan.
        Surviving are his wife, Prof. Diana Festa; a son, Brice, of Manhattan; three stepsons, Sergio McCormick of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Marco and Carlo McCormick, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Jacques, of Avignon, France.
      