
       Gardiner C. Means, an economist whose theory regarding pricing practices in some industries was influential in setting national policy in the New Deal and later when inflation struck after World War II, died of complications from a stroke Monday. Dr. Means, who was 91 years old, suffered the stroke six months ago at his home in Vienna,
        Gardiner C. Means, an economist whose theory regarding pricing practices in some industries was influential in setting national policy in the New Deal and later when inflation struck after World War II, died of complications from a stroke Monday. Dr. Means, who was 91 years old, suffered the stroke six months ago at his home in Vienna, Va., where he died.
        In the mid-1930's Dr. Means, then a comparatively obscure adviser to Agriculture Secretary Henry A. Wallace, developed a theory to explain why prices did not always rise and fall in response to the classical law of supply and demand. The theory developed a popular name, ''administered prices.''
        Dr. Means observed that in some industries, such as steel, oil and automobiles, prices were more inflexible than in other product lines and he reasoned that large producers in those industries were able to ''administer'' prices without regard for the level of demand. Instead of reducing prices when demand fell, they cut production to lower their costs, thereby maintaining profits. Theory of Power in Industry
        The ground for his theory had been laid in a book that he had written a few years earlier with Adolf A. Berle Jr., who was soon to become a member of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal ''brain trust,'' when both were at Columbia Law School.
        They published ''The Modern Corporation and Private Property'' in 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression, arguing that economic power in the United States was lodged in the 200 biggest corporations, which earned 43 percent of all corporate income.
        Their contention that America's storied ''rugged individualism'' was stifled by the power of corporate giants formed a basis for the New Deal efforts to combat the monopoly power of some industries, or ''trust-busting,'' that followed. Dr. Means went on to develop his pricing theory, which came to the fore again two decades later when economists and government officials struggled to explain the inflation of the late 1950's. Congress Sought His Advice
        In that period Dr. Means was often called upon to testify before Congressional committees. To support his thesis of ''administered prices,'' he frequently pointed to the steel industry. In his later book, ''Pricing Power and the Public Interest,'' published in 1962, he calculated that steel prices had risen at six times the rate of labor costs, contributing heavily to inflation. Under government pressure, steel prices were subsequently held down.
        The impact of Dr. Means as an economist may never have been felt had he not displayed unusual calmness under extreme pressure as an Army pilot in 1918. A native of Windham, Conn., he entered Harvard and while a student there, he enlisted in the Army in 1917.
        After serving as an infantry lieutenant he switched to the Signal Corps and became a flier. On May 29, 1918, he and other aviators were practicing maneuvers over Long Island when his single-engine plane went into a tailspin at 2,000 feet. He was unable to stop the spin but, as other aviators later noted admiringly, managed to widen it so that when the plane plunged to the ground he was thrown clear. Knocked unconscious, he suffered only a few bruises.
        After World War I ended, he worked with Near East Relief in Turkey and, after two years at the Lowell Textile School in Massachusetts, he held jobs in textile manufacturing. He went back to Harvard for a master's degree in 1927 and did economic research at the Columbia Law School for four years, receiving his doctorate in economics from Harvard in the process.
        In 1933, not long after Roosevelt's inauguration, Dr. Means went to Washington to work for Wallace and serve as an adviser to the National Recovery Administration. Two years later he switched to the Nations Resources Planning Board and subsequently he worked for other Federal agencies, including the Budget Bureau, before leaving Government to do research for the Committee for Economic Development and the Fund for the Republic. He and Wife Wrote Book
        In 1927 he married Caroline F. Ware, an economist and college professor. They collaborated on ''The Modern Economy in Action,'' published in 1936, in which they traced the evolution of a complex corporate economy from horse-and-buggy days and explored the problems created by a breakup of the old system.
        Mrs. Means, speaking yesterday from the farmhouse that she and her husband bought as part of a 70-acre property near Vienna for $7,000 in 1935, said that Dr. Means had been working up until his stroke on a book updating his theories in light of changing economic conditions.
        ''He always wanted to take another step beyond the one he'd already taken,'' she said. ''His main concern most recently was to identify the factors in rachet-type inflation, to find out what mechanics were responsible, what parts were out of control.''
        His latest book was about half-finished, she said.
        Dr. and Mrs. Means devoted much effort to conservation. Several years ago the couple gave more than two-thirds of their property for a regional park and eventually the remainder will become parkland.
        Mrs. Means is the only immediate survivor.
      