
       Former Senator Stuart Symington, a Missouri Democrat who twice sought the Democratic Presidential nomination and was the first Secretary of the Air Force, died early yesterday at his home in New Canaan. He was 87 years old and had lived in retirement there since 1978.
        Former Senator Stuart Symington, a Missouri Democrat who twice sought the Democratic Presidential nomination and was the first Secretary of the Air Force, died early yesterday at his home in New Canaan. He was 87 years old and had lived in retirement there since 1978.
        Mr. Symington's son Stuart said he died in his sleep after being ''ill with angina and weakness of the heart.''
        Senator Symington was a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1956 and 1960. He was a notable adversary of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin at the Army-McCarthy hearings in 1954.
        Tall, sandy-haired and square-shouldered, Mr. Symington was an imposing and influential figure in the Senate from 1953 to 1976, serving on both the Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees. At first a staunch supporter of large military outlays, he became increasingly critical of military spending and of the war in Vietnam. Outspoken Advoate
        Announcing that he would retire as Senator at the end of his fourth term, he said at a St. Louis news conference in April 1975, ''I'm tired of having old men in Government passing laws that force young men to do battle in causes that are not essential to the United States.''
        He was an outspoken advocate on a multitude of other military issues. As Secretary of the newly organized Department of the Air Force in the Truman Administration, he championed the building of American air power. After his election to the Senate, he contended heatedly that the Soviet Union was outdoing the United States in the missile race.
        In 1972 he repeatedly decried ''excessive secrecy'' in the storage of United States nuclear weapons on foreign soil and said such storage complicated relations with other countries. In the 1970's he was also a prominent opponent of the Grumman F-14 fighter plane. Tribute From Kennedy
        Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said yesterday through a spokesman, Jeff Smith: ''Stuart Symington was a great Senator and a great friend whom I learned from, respected and admired throughout our 14 years of service together in the Senate. He was a profound and persuasive voice for both a strong and a responsible national defense, especially in the controversial years following the Vietnam war. Even today, whenever a defense bill is being hotly debated on the Senate floor, all of us who knew him still ask, 'What would Stu Symington have done?' ''
        In 1960, when Mr. Symington lost the Presidential nomination to John F. Kennedy on the first ballot at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, many said he was ''everybody's second choice'' for the nomination. It was often said at the convention that he was the most Presidential-looking White House aspirant. Delegates called him a ''gentleman candidate'' who made nobody angry except the Republicans.
        In military issues, his advocacy was forceful and sometimes pungent. In 1972, castigating the Nixon Administration for its secrecy about nuclear weapons outside the country's borders, he said, ''Comparable to the problems of an alcoholic in the family, the subject is never mentioned.'' Sparred With McCarthy
        One of Senator Symington's most visible roles was as a member of the Senate Subcommittee on Investigations, headed by Senator McCarthy. In the 1954 Army-McCarthy hearings, the two frequently traded insults, with Senator McCarthy calling his Missouri colleague ''sanctimonious Stu.'' For his part, Senator Symington suggested that Senator McCarthy should see a psychiatrist.
        William Stuart Symington, who dropped the first name years later, was born June 26, 1901, in Amherst, Mass. His parents were William Stuart Symington, a professor of Romance languages at Amherst College who became a Baltimore judge, and Emily Haxall Harrison Symington.
        The future Senator grew up in Baltimore and, after graduating from secondary school at the age of 17, joined the Army as a private in World War I. He was later commissioned a second lieutenant, but the war ended before he could see action.
        He studied at Yale College from 1919 to 1923 but left without a degree and went into business; in 1946, Yale awarded him a bachelor's degree. He became an executive of several companies before rising to be president and chairman of the Emerson Electric Manufacturing Company in St. Louis from 1938 to 1945. Air Force Secretary
        Mr. Symington entered Government in 1945 when the new President, his fellow Missourian Harry S. Truman, appointed him chairman of the Surplus Property Board. He later became Assistant Secretary of War for Air and, when the Department of the Air Force was formed, Secretary of the Air Force.
        As Air Force Secretary, Mr. Symington championed an expanded Air Force while James Forrestal, then the Defense Secretary, and other influential Government defense experts held other views. Mr. Symington contended that it was erroneous to economize on military spending if that brought the risk of defeat on the battlefield, and he liked to ask, ''What the hell good is it to be the richest man in the graveyard?'' He resigned as Secretary when his views did not prevail in the Truman Administration.
        Mr. Symington first won election to the Senate in 1952, defeating a candidate backed by President Truman in the Democratic primary and then easily beating the Republican nominee. He was re-elected with ease in 1958 and 1964 but by only 37,000 votes in 1970, when he was 69 years old. The Republican candidate was John C. Danforth, the Missouri State Attorney General, who is now a Senator.
        After his retirement, he worked on his memoirs and played golf frequently, his son James said, adding, ''He was a sportsman all of his life.''
        Mr. Symington was variously a vice chairman and a director of First American Bankshares and President of the National Cathedral Association in Washington.
        Mr. Symington's first wife, the former Evelyn Wadsworth, died in 1972 after 48 years of marriage. In 1978, he married Ann Hemingway Watson.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, James Symington of Washington, a former Congressman from Missouri, and Stuart Symington Jr. of St. Louis; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      