
       Maj. Gen. Robert E. Urquhart, the British commander at the heroic but ill-fated Battle of Arnhem who tried to capture a bridge over the Rhine River, died Tuesday, his family said today. He was 87 years old.
        Maj. Gen. Robert E. Urquhart, the British commander at the heroic but ill-fated Battle of Arnhem who tried to capture a bridge over the Rhine River, died Tuesday, his family said today. He was 87 years old.
        General Urquhart died at his home at the Port of Menteith, near Stirling in his native Scotland. No cause of death was given.
        As commander of the First Airborne Division, General Urquhart was at the forefront of the battle in September 1944 to capture a bridge over the Rhine at Arnhem, the Netherlands, and survived many narrow escapes. He was portrayed by Sean Connery in the 1977 movie ''A Bridge Too Far,'' which was based on the battle.
        The battle was the climax of an American-British operation to exploit German disorganization after their retreat from Normandy and the Allied invasion of Nazi-occupied Europe in the D-Day landings three months earlier. Sought to Avoid Long Offensive
        The plan aimed at ending the war in Europe before the end of 1944, thereby avoiding the Allies' long, conventional offensive with which the war eventually ended in May 1945.
        The plan was to capture five river and canal bridges in the Netherlands to open a way for an armored advance into the north German plain before the onset of winter.
        It required the American 101st and 82d Airborne Divisions to capture bridges at Eindhoven and Nijmegen and the British First Airborne Division to capture the one at Arnhem.
        Simultaneously with the parachute and glider landings, a ground advance of 64 miles was planned by the British 30th Corps from the Meuse-Escaut Canal along the same axis.
        The American operations succeeded. But the British, whose air drops had to be staggered because of lack of sufficient aircraft, encountered German forces and were able to capture only the north end of the Arnhem bridge. Germans Out-Gun Britons
        The Germans, who had found plans of the entire operation on the body of an American soldier shot down in a glider, heavily out-gunned General Urquhart's 10,000 troops.
        Bad weather and German assaults on the 30th Corps' advancing armored column, meanwhile, denied relief for General Urquhart's troops.
        General Urquhart and his men fought with heroic courage for nine days. But with their ammunition and food virtually at an end, their casualties rising rapidly and no hope of relief reaching them in time, the general ordered a break-out.
        There was no formal British surrender. A total of 2,163 of the 10,000 troops who landed at Arnhem fought their way to safety in the American area, which the 30th Corps had consolidated. Some 1,350 were killed in the battle. The rest were taken prisoner. General Urquhart made his way to safety. 'A Bridge Too Short'
        The failure to capture the Arnhem bridge was reported as ''a bridge too short'' to bring victory.
        General Urquhart was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Highland Light Infantry in 1920. In World War II he fought in North Africa, Sicily and Italy before he was made a major general and given command of the British First Airborne Division, After the war, General Urquhart became Director General of the Territorial Army, the British Army's part-time reserve, during its reconstruction. He was later appointed commander of British forces in British-ruled Malaya, which later became part of Malaysia, and from 1952 until his retirement in 1955 was the commander of British troops in Austria.
        He is survived by his wife, Pamela; three daughters, and a son.
      