
       Nils Bejerot, a Swedish physician and psychiatrist who was a pioneer in the study of drug abuse in contemporary society, died of lymphoma on Tuesday at Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm. He was 67 years old and lived in Stockholm.
        Nils Bejerot, a Swedish physician and psychiatrist who was a pioneer in the study of drug abuse in contemporary society, died of lymphoma on Tuesday at Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm. He was 67 years old and lived in Stockholm.
        Dr. Bejerot retired last January as a professor in the Department of Social Medicine at Karolinska Institute after a teaching career of more than two decades. At his death he was director of the Swedish Carnegie Institute, a private research foundation in the field of drug abuse.
        Dr. Bejerot won wide recognition for developing an epidemiology of drug abuse and for investigating ways to prevent addiction to amphetamines, heroin, cocaine and other narcotics.
        ''He made a unique contribution by pointing out the epidemic proportions of 'street' addiction and by focusing attention on the individual drug abuser,'' Jonas Hartelius, chief of staff of the Carnegie Institute, said yesterday. Controversial in Sweden
        But while Dr. Bejerot's work was hailed in other countries, including the United States, which he visited several times, he remained a controversial figure in Sweden because of his emphasis on prevention rather than treatment of drug addiction. Fifteen years ago he advocated banishing drug abusers to ''therapeutic villages'' to prevent the spread of what he regarded as a contagion of epidemic proportions.
        Dr. Bejerot worked closely with law-enforcement authorities in dealing with drug-related crime, serving for 30 years as a consultant to the Stockholm Police Department on drug-abuse matters. He had the enthusiastic support of Sweden's National Association for a Drug-Free Society and of parents' groups fighting drug use among youths.
        But in spite of his close collaboration with the police, the Swedish Government, sensitive to counterpressure from a constituency that opposes strong measures to ban narcotics, maintained an arms-length relationship with him. Although successive national administrations had to deal with Sweden's growing drug problem, colleagues noted that Dr. Bejerot had never been named to a Government-sponsored study group or other official post.
        Dr. Bejerot was born in Nortalje, Sweden, and received his medical degree from the Karolinska Institute. He became an associate professor there in 1975 and three years later was awarded a special professorship in recognition of his work in the drug-abuse field.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Caroline Maurice; by three daughters, Eva, Lena and Susanne; a brother, Lennart; a sister, Eva, and seven grandchildren, all of Stockholm.
      