
       Wiley A. Branton, the principal lawyer in the civil rights case that desegregated the public schools in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 65 years old.
        Wiley A. Branton, the principal lawyer in the civil rights case that desegregated the public schools in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Branton, a former dean of Howard University Law School, also headed a voter registration drive among blacks in the South in the 1960's. At the time of death, Mr. Branton was a partner in the Washington office of Sidley & Austin, a Chicago law firm.
        ''He devoted his entire life to fighting for his own people,'' said Justice Thurgood Marshall of the United States Supreme Court. The two worked together in Little Rock, when both were counsels to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        ''He was one of my closest friends,'' Justice Marshall said. ''He was a great guy, a warm person who believed in people and believed in what was right.'' While in private practice, Mr. Branton continued work without fee for civil rights organizations. ''He spent most of his time working for free,'' Justice Marshall said, #600,000 Blacks Sign Up After Mr. Branton achieved prominence with his victory in Little Rock, where resistance to desegregation led President Eisenhower to call out Federal troops to enforce the court ruling, he was chosen by the nation's civil rights leaders to direct the Voter Education Project in Atlanta, a cooperative effort to register black voters. Under his leadership, more than 600,000 black voters were registered from 1962 to 1965.
        He also represented the Freedom Riders, volunteers in the registration drive, who were jailed in the South. While addressing a rally in Greenwood, Miss., where he was defending six jailed Freedom Riders, Mr. Branton disclosed that he was the great-grandson of Greenwood Leflore, for whom the city of Greenwood, and its county, Leflore, were named. Mr. Branton's ancestor, the son of a Choctaw Indian princess, was chief of the Choctaw nation.
        Born in Pine Bluff, Ark., Mr. Branton graduated from a branch of the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff and the University of Arkansas Law School. He practiced law in Pine Bluff and defended many blacks in criminal cases, a period in which Mr. Branton was a frequent target of threatening telephone calls and a cross burning on his lawn.
        In 1962 he moved to Atlanta, where he became head of the Voter Education Project. From 1965 to 1967, he was special assistant to the United States Attorney General and executive secretary of President Johnson's Council on Equal Opportunity. In 1967 he became executive director of the United Planning Organization, the District of Columbia's antipoverty agency. Two years later, he directed the social action program of the Alliance for Labor Action. He left that job to practice law in Washington. Accomplishments at Law School
        From 1978 to 1983, Mr. Branton was dean of Howard University Law School. When he took the job, the university was threatened by the declining success of its graduates in passing bar examinations, loss of accreditation and a disgruntled faculty. When he left, his colleagues credited him with restoring standards and a certain amount of stability.
        Mr. Branton received the first Martin Luther King Jr. Leadership Award from the Washington Public Library this year. He was named Lawyer of the Year by the Bar Association of the District of Columbia in 1986 and received the Whitney North Seymour Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law in 1987.
        He was a director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., the Winthrop Rockefeller Foundation, Africare and the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.
        Surviving are his wife, Lucille; two sons, Richard, of Atlanta, and Wiley Jr., of Washington; three daughters, Wylene Branton Wood, of Mendham, N.J., and Beverly Lucille Branton and Debra Branton Levy, both of Atlanta; two brothers, Sterling, of Northridge, Calif., and Leo, of Los Angeles; a sister, Julie Branton Jones, of Pine Bluff, Ark. and 12 grandchildren.
        The funeral will be Monday at 11 A.M. at the National Cathedral in Washington.
      