
       Edward E. Rhatigan, a former New York City Welfare Commissioner, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 78 years old and had lived in Greenwich for more than 20 years.
        Edward E. Rhatigan, a former New York City Welfare Commissioner, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 78 years old and had lived in Greenwich for more than 20 years.
        Mr. Rhatigan had also been a top official of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, and a longtime executive director of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York, Inc.
        Mr. Rhatigan was born Nov. 13, 1909, in Ridgewood, Queens, and graduated from Notre Dame University in 1932. He later earned a master's degree in social work at Columbia University.
        After serving as Director of Public Assistance and First Deputy Commissioner of the Welfare Department from 1941 to 1944, he was with the United Nations agency in 1944 and 1945, heading its operations in Germany for some months and rising to become a Deputy Director General. Resigned in '47
        Mayor William O'Dwyer named Mr. Rhatigan Welfare Commissioner, and he served from Jan. 1, 1946, until Oct. 24, 1947, when he resigned at Mr. O'Dwyer's request after a mayoral report was critical of how the city administered welfare.
        At the time, the city's Welfare Department had come under investigation by the State Welfare Board after it had been disclosed that substantial sums were being spent to house indigent families in hotels.
        After resigning, Mr. Rhatigan contended in a statement that Mr. O'Dwyer had known about the shortcomings of the city's welfare program months before asking him to step down.
        Mr. Rhatigan went on to serve for more than 30 years as the full-time executive director of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York, a nonprofit, nongovernmental agency that provides training and employment as well as housing for the handicapped.
        Mr. Rhatigan conceived and oversaw the construction of a headquarters complex for the organization in Astoria, Queens, using state and Federal funds, in the late 1970's. He retired as executive director five years ago.
        Mr. Rhatigan was also a past member of the executive committee of the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
        Mr. Rhatigan is survived by his wife, the former Gertrude Rigney, whom he married in 1934; a daughter, Lynn Rhatigan Callagy of Rye, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass will be offered at 10 A.M. tomorrow at St. Michael's Church on North Street in Greenwich.
      