
       Dr. Andre F. Cournand, a professor of medicine at Columbia University for many years who won the Nobel Prize in 1956 for perfecting a simple method of exploring the heart through catheterization, died of pneumonia yesterday at his home in Great Barrington, Mass., after a long illness. He was 92 years old.
        Dr. Andre F. Cournand, a professor of medicine at Columbia University for many years who won the Nobel Prize in 1956 for perfecting a simple method of exploring the heart through catheterization, died of pneumonia yesterday at his home in Great Barrington, Mass., after a long illness. He was 92 years old.
        Dr. Cournand's Nobel award was the fruit of many years of research that began in 1929 when a German scientist, Dr. Werner Forssmann, passed a catheter through a vein in his arm into his heart. Dr. Cournand, who had come to New York from his native France in 1930 to study chest diseases at Bellevue Hospital, teamed with Dr. Dickinson W. Richards, another faculty member at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons, to find practical ways to use Dr. Forssmann's invention of the heart catheter.
        They were able not only to penetrate the heart but also to push farther into the pulmonary artery and even into the lungs, recording blood pressure and other conditions essential to the treatment of cardiovascular and pulmonary ailments. Man of Many Interests
        Dr. Cournand's interests extended beyond his medical research. He was a science historian and biographer, a founding member of the Universal Movement for Scientific Responsibility and a student of the sociology of science. He had a wide acquaintance among poets and other artists, played championship soccer as a youth and was an avid mountaineer.
        A 1915 graduate of the Sorbonne, he finished a year of medical school before enlisting in the French Army in World War I as a ''private medical student,'' a rank created to provide help to surgeons at the front. Gassed and wounded near the end of the war, he was awarded the Croix de Guerre with three stars. He later was made a member of the Legion of Honor.
        In the 1920's, while completing his medical studies at the University of Paris, he became active in the art world, promoting the work of many modernists, notably the sculptor Jacques Lipschitz. Respiratory Research
        Dr. Cournand came to New York with the intention of spending a year at Bellevue, but after becoming acquainted with Dr. Richards, he decided to stay and pursue respiratory research.
        Their collaboration continued until Dr. Richards's death in 1973 and produced a body of fundamental observations and improvements in diagnosis and theory. The two men were particularly interested in training physician-investigators, and, even after retirement, they continued to develop teaching and research programs on the history of medicine and on science and human affairs.
        Dr. Cournand, who had joined the faculty at Physicians and Surgeons in 1935, retired in 1964 but continued as a special lecturer until his final illness.
        Among many honors he received was the Lasker Award of the United States Public Health Service. He was president of the Harvey Society in 1959 and was an honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.
        Surviving are Dr. Cournand's wife, Dr. Beatrice Bishop Berle; three daughters, Muriel Jaeger of Paris, and Marie-Eve Walker and Marie Claire Cournand, both of New York; nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      