
       Roger J. Williams, an internationally known biochemist and nutritional scientist who discovered the growth-promoting vitamin pantothenic acid, died of pneumonia Saturday at the Four Seasons Nursing Home in Austin, Tex. He was 94 years old and a longtime resident of Austin.
        Roger J. Williams, an internationally known biochemist and nutritional scientist who discovered the growth-promoting vitamin pantothenic acid, died of pneumonia Saturday at the Four Seasons Nursing Home in Austin, Tex. He was 94 years old and a longtime resident of Austin.
        Dr. Williams spent most of his career as a teacher and researcher at the University of Texas, where he was professor of chemistry from 1934 until his retirement in 1971. At the university he directed the Clayton Foundation Biochemical Institute until three years ago.
        The author of 26 books and more than 275 scholarly articles, he remained active until his death, revising his latest work, which is to be published this year. Two days before his death, an associate recalled yesterday, Dr. Williams asked to have galley proofs brought to the nursing home this week so that he could check them.
        He was a lifelong investigator whose curiosity took him along many avenues. He was credited with making significant advances in knowledge of the way nutrients effect health, aging, psychological disorders, alcoholism and mental retardation, among other diseases. New Book at 92
        In the last two decades Dr. Williams was deeply concerned with education, in particular with what he considered the neglect by medical schools in teaching nutritional science. In 1986, at the age of 92, he published ''Rethinking Education: The Coming Age of Enlightenment.''
        Dr. Williams was born to missionary parents in the Ootacumund in the state of Madras, India, on Oct. 14, 1893. He graduated from the University of Redlands in California in 1914 and received master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago.
        It was while he was at Chicago that he did his initial work on pantothenic acid. Not until 15 years later, at a meeting of the American Chemical Society, was he able to announce its discovery, and not until 1940 was it identified as a member of the important family of vitamins known collectively as the B complex.
        With his Ph.D in chemistry in hand, Dr. Williams went to work as a research chemist for the Fleischmann Corporation, the yeast producer, now a subsidiary of RJR Nabisco Inc. In 1920 he joined the faculty of the University of Oregon, continuing his research, and in 1932 he moved to Oregon State University, remaining there until he became professor of chemistry at Texas in 1934. Discoverer of Vitamins
        As the guiding spirit of the Biochemical Institute since 1940, Dr. Wiliams presided over the discovery of more vitamins and their variants than were found at any other laboratory in the world. It was there that he did pioneering work in the discovery of folic acid, an important agent in combating pernicious anemia and another member of the B complex.
        In 1941 he and his older brother, Dr. Robert R. Williams, then chemical director of the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the scientist who isolated Vitamin B-1, were awarded the Charles Frederick Chandler Medal by Columbia University for their research in biochemistry. It was the first time since the award was established in 1910 that it was shared by two persons. Robert Williams died in 1965.
        Dr. Williams was the chosen in 1957 as president of the American Chemical Society, the first biochemist to head the organization. At the time, its 75,000 members made it the largest scientific group in the world.
        His first book, ''Introduction to Organic Chemistry,'' published in 1928, was an instant success and within a year was used as a text by more than 300 colleges. Among his other books were ''Nutrition and Alcoholism'' (1951), ''Free and Unequal'' (1953), ''Biochemical Individuality'' (1956), ''Nutrition Against Disease'' (1971) and Physicians' Handbook of Nutritional Science'' (1975).
        Survivors include his wife, the former Phyllis Hobson; two sons, Roger J. Jr. of Orangeburg, N.Y., and Arnold E. of Boulder, Colo.; a daughter, Janet Wilcox of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; a stepson, John Hobson of Farmington, Conn., nine grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      