
       Oliver G. Swan, a literary agent whose career spanned almost 40 years, died of pneumonia yesterday at Bryn Mawr (Pa.) Hospital. He was 83 years old. Among the authors he represented were Conrad Richter, Richard Wright, Morris West, Alex Hailey and the estate of Henry James.
        Oliver G. Swan, a literary agent whose career spanned almost 40 years, died of pneumonia yesterday at Bryn Mawr (Pa.) Hospital. He was 83 years old. Among the authors he represented were Conrad Richter, Richard Wright, Morris West, Alex Hailey and the estate of Henry James.
        But Mr. Swan took particular satisfaction in placing books by unknown or little-known authors, former colleagues say, and in selling books that were otherwise hard to place.
        For example, he received more than a dozen rejections before he finally sold ''Fields of Fire,'' the much-acclaimed novel by James Webb, who two days ago announced his resignation as Secretary of the Navy, He also sold ''The Martyred'' by Richard Kim, another acclaimed novel, by a former soldier in the South Korean Army who came to the United States after the Korean War.
        ''He was representative of the very best about publishing,'' said William Reiss, a literary agent who worked with Mr. Swan for almost a decade. ''He was honorable, tremendously diligent and hard working. He was tremendously persistent, and if he believed in a book he would submit it 30, 40, even 50 times.'' A Wharton Graduate
        An affable raconteur, Mr. Swan enjoyed nursing a drink and regaling friends with his vast storehouse of publishing lore.
        After graduating from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1926, Mr. Swan joined the Philadelphia publishing firm of Macrae-Smith as an editor. He edited two books for his employer, ''Deep Water Days,'' a compilation of stories about the sailing ship era, and ''Frontier Days,'' about the American West. From 1942 to 1947 he was president of the Philadelphia Booksellers Association.
        On a 1946 trip to New York to visit agents, Mr. Swan became reunited with a former classmate, Paul Reynolds, whose father had founded the Paul Reynolds literary agency in 1893. Mr. Swan soon joined that agency and within a decade became a 40 percent partner.
        When that partnership dissolved in 1974, after both men turned 70, Mr. Swan joined the Julian Bach agency. Two years later he joined Collier Associates, a literary agency headed by Oscar Collier, who when he was an editor at Prentice-Hall had bought Mr. Webb's ''Fields of Fire.'' 'He Always Kept His Word'
        ''He was an unusual agent and an unusually dependable person,'' Mr. Collier said yesterday. ''He always kept his word to his authors and his employers.''
        Mr. Swan moved to Swarthmore, Pa., in 1945 and for years afterward commuted to New York on Monday and returned home on Friday. Only in the few years before he retired in July 1985, at age 81, did he cut back his work schedule to three days a week.
        Mr. Swan was born in Waltham, Mass., July 27, 1904, but attended high school in Westchester County, N.Y. He contracted polio after his senior year in high school but managed to walk without support until he suffered two bad falls when he was in his 60's.
        He is survived by two sons, Oliver Jr., of Media, Pa., and Dana, of Haverford, Pa.
      