
       Rabbi Seymour Siegel, an architect of contemporary Conservative Jewish theology whose writings helped open the door for the ordination of female rabbis and other innovations, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long illness. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Rabbi Seymour Siegel, an architect of contemporary Conservative Jewish theology whose writings helped open the door for the ordination of female rabbis and other innovations, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long illness. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        For the past 41 years, Rabbi Siegel was associated with the Jewish Theological Seminary, first as a student and later as an instructor and as the Ralph Simon Professor of Ethics and Theology. He succeeded the great Jewish theologian Abraham Joshua Heschel in the professorship.
        Rabbi Siegel was also known as the ''rabbi of the neo-conservatives,'' forging close ties with the movement's major thinkers, like Irving Kristol, Michael Novak and Norman Podhoretz. In the 1960's Rabbi Siegel participated in civil-rights marches and rallies protesting the Vietnam War but he later came to believe that unbridled liberalism was a threat to Jewish rights.
        In 1972, Rabbi Siegel wrote an article on the op-ed page of The New York Times that began: ''I have never voted for a Republican Presidential candidate. This year I shall vote for President Nixon.'' Holocaust Council
        At the Presidential inauguration the following year Rabbi Siegel was invited to offer a public blessing.
        Rabbi Siegel also had close ties to the Reagan Administration. He was appointed by President Reagan as the executive director of the United States Holocaust Council and spent two years organizing the effort to build a memorial to the Holocaust victims in the nation's capital.
        Although he became politically conservative, Rabbi Siegel was a religious liberal within Conservative Judaism. His philosophy held that when there is a conflict between Jewish law and Jewish ethics, ethical principles must take precedence.
        This approach was obvious in the rulings of the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards of the Rabbinical Assembly, a body that Rabbi Siegel headed for more than a decade.
        For example, the body, under Rabbi Siegel's leadership, ruled in 1973 that women could be counted in a minyan, the quorum of 10 or more adult Jews required for communal worship. Until that time, the Conservatives followed the Orthodox tradition that only men could be counted.
        The decision led more than a decade later to the body's decision to allow women to be Conservative rabbis. Rabbi Siegel called the decision a victory both for women and for the evolution of halacha, Jewish law. Stand on Abortion
        Rabbi Siegel also articulated the Conservative view on abortion, saying that ''the fetus possesses a human dimension'' and therefore must be safeguarded, but that the health of the mother, both physical and mental, took precedence over the nascent life within her. Under certain circumstances, he wrote, Judaism permitted abortion.
        Rabbi Siegel, the author of hundreds of articles, was the editor of two books, ''Conservative Judaism and Jewish Law'' and ''God in the Teachings of Conservative Judaism.'' At his death he was preparing a book called ''Medical Ethics in a Jewish Perspective.''
        Rabbi Siegel was a visiting senior research fellow at the Kennedy Institute for Bioethics at Georgetown University and a visiting scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington.
        He also served on the President's Commission on Ethics in Medicine and Biomedical Research and on the Advisory Council of the Republican National Committee. He was on the editorial board of the Jewish Publication Society and of numerous journals.
        In addition to his articles, books and lectures, Rabbi Siegel spent many hours answering the questions of rabbis across the country who called him at his office at the seminary, at 122d Street and Broadway. For many rabbis, he was the final authority on religious law.
        Rabbi Siegel is survived by his mother, Jeannette Polin of Manhattan, and a brother, Allen, of Washington.
        Services will be held today at 1 P.M. at the seminary, 3080 Broadway.
      