
       The Rev. Harold Mulqueen, S.J., whose 80-year association with Fordham University gained him the name ''Father Fordham,'' died of burns Sunday at Bronx Municipal Hospital. University officials said the burns were sustained in a fire apparently started by his pipe. He was 93 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        The Rev. Harold Mulqueen, S.J., whose 80-year association with Fordham University gained him the name ''Father Fordham,'' died of burns Sunday at Bronx Municipal Hospital. University officials said the burns were sustained in a fire apparently started by his pipe. He was 93 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Father Mulqueen's association with Fordham went back to 1905, when he was a grammar school student. He went on to graduate from Fordham Preparatory School and to earn degrees at the university. He later served on the faculty of the university as a professor of theology and philosophy.
        But he was probably better known for his non-academic roles, such as dormitory headmaster and moderator of the university band. Discipline and Love
        His tenure as moderator, which gave him responsiblity for the band's accounts and the band members' conduct, lasted for 55 years. He held the post even though he could not read music or play an instrument.
        In the dormitories in the 1930's, he was in charge of the discipline of Fordham's winning football players known as the ''Seven Blocks of Granite,'' a group that included Vince Lombardi.
        ''He knew when to mete out the discipline and when to distribute the love,'' said the Rev. George J. McMahon, S.J., vice president of Fordham's Lincoln Center campus, who succeeded Father Mulqueen as the band moderator. Ordained in 1926
        Father Mulqueen, who was born in the Yorkville section of Manhattan, was ordained in 1926 and earned a Ph.D. from Gregorian University in Rome in 1929.
        In retirement, confined to a wheelchair after breaking a hip, he was still serenaded by the Fordham band with the fight song on football game days as he sat on the porch of Loyola-Faber Hall, the Jesuit residence on Fordham's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx.
        Mayor John V. Lindsay presented him with the Medallion of the City of New York in 1969, and he was honored in 1984 with the Insignis Medal, a lifetime achievement award given to distinguished members of the Fordham community.
        Father Mulqueen is survived by a sister, Sister Eleanor Mulqueen of the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Jesus in Kenwood, N.Y., and by a niece and a nephew.
      