
       Robert Duncan, a poet and author of a work on the Imagist poet H. D. (Hilda Doolittle), died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 69 years old.
        Robert Duncan, a poet and author of a work on the Imagist poet H. D. (Hilda Doolittle), died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Duncan, who had suffered from kidney failure in the last few years, died of a heart attack, according to Peter Glassgold, his editor at New Directions.
        Mr. Duncan once described the aim of his poetry this way: ''I work toward immediacy, and I do not aim at originality. The meanings in language are not original, any more than the sounds; they accrue from all the generations of human use. I am a traditionalist, a seeker after origins, not an original.''
        In an appearance in 1978 on a public television series called ''The Originals,'' Mr. Duncan read some of his work and described himself as a ''very bookish poet.'' Of his style, he said that he appreciated the ''snakelike beauty in the living changes of syntax.''
        On the same program, he was candid about his homosexuality: ''What is most interesting to me is that only in very recent years of gay liberation have I reflected upon the fact that I actually may have been determined all along by my repeated coming up against homosexuality.'' Early Poetic Works
        Mr. Duncan's early books of poetry included ''As Testimony,'' ''The Cat and the Blackbird,'' ''Medea at Kolchis'' and ''Of the War: Passages.'' Later, he wrote ''Roots and Branches,'' ''Bending the Bow,'' ''The Years as Catches,'' ''Opening of the Field,'' ''Ground Work: Before the War'' and ''Ground Work II: In the Dark.''
        In a review of ''Ground Work: Before the War,'' in The New York Times Book Review, on Aug. 4, 1985, Mark Rudman noted that it was his first major collection in 15 years and went on: ''His project is a way of showing how much poetry, how much of the act of creation, is about process . . . He is not a poet for scholars only. If his oeuvre can fairly be viewed as a grand collage, the leaps, gaps and juxtapositions stimulate the reader to uncover, in his words, 'resonances of meaning stimulating the reader to uncover what we/ understand, words freed from their origins.' ''
        Mr. Duncan was born in Oakland, Calif., became a college dropout in the late 1930's and lived in New York during World War II, where he edited and wrote for Experimental Review. He returned to the University of California at Berkeley in 1947, where he studied medieval and renaissance history.
        In recent years, Mr. Duncan was involved with the San Francisco poetry scene. His longtime campanion was Jess Collins.
      