
       Wallace Groves, whose Wall Street career ended in the 1930's when he was convicted for mail fraud and who then went on to develop the city of Freeport in the Bahamas into a major resort and gambling area, died Saturday at Doctors Hospital in Miami, six days after suffering a stroke. He was 86 years old.
        Wallace Groves, whose Wall Street career ended in the 1930's when he was convicted for mail fraud and who then went on to develop the city of Freeport in the Bahamas into a major resort and gambling area, died Saturday at Doctors Hospital in Miami, six days after suffering a stroke. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Groves essentially had two business lives. First, as a young, flashy, and successful investor, he was involved in several businesses and had controlling interests in several others, including the United Cigar Store and the Whelan Drug Store chain. Spent 2 Years in Prison
        But he was indicted in 1938 and convicted in 1941 of using the mails to defraud stockholders in the General Investment Corporation, which he controlled. He had been accused of using the mails in a scheme to sell securities to General Investment at an inflated price. Mr. Groves spent two years in Federal prison.
        Late in the 1940's, Mr. Groves became interested in Grand Bahama Island, the long, narrow strip at the northwest edge of the island group. He bought 114,000 acres at $2.80 an acre.
        In 1955, he was able to negotiate an unusual agreement with the Bahamian Government. He received a wide range of tax concessions as the president of the Grand Bahama Port Authority Ltd. in return for attracting and developing industrial and commercial enterprises. He was also responsible for developing utilities, schools, roads, and hospitals.
        Through the authority, of which he was the majority stockholder, he owned the airport, the Freeport Bunkering Company, a huge ship-fueling outfit, and the Bahamas Amusement Ltd., which at one time held the exclusive gambling license for Freeport. Lived in Grand Style
        Mr. Groves's casino holdings were often criticized for attracting a criminal element to the island, and he was sometimes criticized for operating in a monarchial style. He lived in Freeport in a large home, distinctive for its blue-green tiled roof, and spent much time on his private island, Little Whale Clay, south of Grand Bahama. He sold the island in 1985. Residents and employees often complained that the authority which had broad power to expel, ran the island in police-state fashion.
        Still, Mr. Groves was also hailed as the developer of the sprawling vacation haven about 80 miles of Florida. He sold interest in the authority in 1968 for $80 million and in 1978 he sold his interest in the Intercontinental Diversified Corporation for $38 million.
        Mr. Groves is survived by three sons, Gordon and Graham, both of Coral Gables, Fla., and Gary of Houston; two daughters, Gene of New Canaan, Conn., and Gayle of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Lillian Geer of Baltimore, and four grandchildren. His funeral is Wednesday at 3 P.M. at the Shrine to Mary Star of the Sea Church in Freeport.
      