
       Lakshmi Kant Jha, one of India's most distinguished economists and an architect of the country's recent economic liberalization, died of kidney failure today. He was 74 years old.
        Lakshmi Kant Jha, one of India's most distinguished economists and an architect of the country's recent economic liberalization, died of kidney failure today. He was 74 years old.
        Mr. Jha died in Poona, in the western state of Maharashtra.
        Mr. Jha, who favored good relations between India and the United States, worked closely with Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and his two immediate predecessors, Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri.
        Mr. Jha was the Indian Ambassador to Washington at a time of strained relations with the United States. Relations worsened during and after the third war between India and Pakistan in 1971, which resulted in the creation of Bangladesh. India won that war decisively and Mr. Jha was one of his country's most effective spokesmen abroad at the time.
        Mr. Jha was born in Bhagalpur in the eastern state of Bihar in 1913, studied at Cambridge University under John Maynard Keynes and joined the Indian Civil Service during British rule. He held several high posts in the bureaucracy, including Secretary for Heavy Industry and Secretary in the Prime Minister's Office.
        The former West German Chancellor Willy Brandt, recognizing Mr. Jha's skills as a diplomat and an economist, named him to his north-south commission on international economic issues. Mr. Jha was closely associated with GATT, the General Agreement for Tariffs and Trade, in the 1950's, and headed several important Government committees in India, including one on reforming the country's vast bureaucracy. Between 1973 and 1981, he was Governor of Kashmir.
        Since 1980, he had helped Mrs. Gandhi and then her successor, Rajiv Gandhi, to devise policies aimed at breaking bureaucratic restrictions on Indian economic development. He was elected to the upper house of Parliament in 1986 as a member of the ruling Congress Party.
        Mr. Gandhi described Mr. Jha today as ''a public servant of rare brilliance, dedication and achievement.''
      