
       Clement G. Hurd, illustrator of ''Goodnight Moon'' and almost 100 other books for children, died last Friday in a convalescent hospital in San Francisco. He was 80 years old and had been ill with Alzheimer's disease for about two years.
        Clement G. Hurd, illustrator of ''Goodnight Moon'' and almost 100 other books for children, died last Friday in a convalescent hospital in San Francisco. He was 80 years old and had been ill with Alzheimer's disease for about two years.
        Mr. Hurd frequently tested his illustrations on children as young as 3 years old. In her book, ''American Picturebooks,'' Barbara Bader wrote, ''Using flat forms and broad generalized outline, composing over a large area, hanging loose, Mr. Hurd worked then the way children think of working, setting down how things seem, the idea of things.''
        Mr. Hurd was born in New York City, the son of a banker. He graduated from Yale University and studied another year at the Yale School of Architecture. After studying painting with Fernand Leger in Paris, he returned to New York to become a freelance designer. During World War II, he spent four years in the Army Air Corps. Entered Bank Street College
        Encouraged by Margaret Wise Brown to try picture-book illustration, Mr. Hurd enrolled at the Bank Street College of Education in the late 1930's. There, he met and, in 1939, married Edith Thacher, a Missourian who had attended Radcliffe College.
        Together, they wrote and illustrated more than 40 books, including the ''I Can Read'' series for Harper & Row, ''Christmas Eve,'' a Christmas legend illustrated with woodcuts, ''Catfish and the Kidnapped Cat,'' ''The So-So Cat'' and ''Wilson's World,'' an ecological fantasy about a boy who repaints a better world.
        But Mr. Hurd's best-known book was ''Goodnight Moon,'' written by Ms. Brown. The book, about a rabbit who says good night to everything and everybody before falling asleep, has sold more than 2 million copies since it was published in 1947, and has never been out of print. Harper's published a pop-up book in 1984 based on ''Goodnight Moon,'' newly illustrated by Mr. Hurd. Illustrated Gertrude Stein Book
        Mr. Hurd illustrated several other books by Ms. Brown, including ''The Diggers,'' ''The Little Brass Band,'' ''The Runaway Bunny'' and ''Bumble Bugs and Elephants.'' The latter, published in 1938, was Mr. Hurd's first illustrated book. His second was ''The World Is Round'' (1939) by Gertrude Stein.
        In an interview with Publishers Weekly in 1966, Mr. Hurd said the field of children's book illustration ''is related to painting and graphics, but is specialized in that the artist must keep the ultimate audience more firmly in mind than the 'pure' painter who primarily tries to satisfy himself.'' This audience, he added, ''an ever new and wide-eyed group, responds freely to what interests it, and turns away from what does not.''
        Mr. Hurd is survived by his wife; a son, Thacher, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Lucy Lea Farrington of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      