
       Al Hall, a jazz bassist believed to be the first black musician in a Broadway theater orchestra, died of lung cancer Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Al Hall, a jazz bassist believed to be the first black musician in a Broadway theater orchestra, died of lung cancer Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Hall's 50-year musical career ended with his hospitalization last month. He had been playing Sunday afternoons at Sweet Basil in Greenwich Village with Doc Cheatham, a trumpeter and saxophonist.
        Recognition for his artistry came from the Smithsonian Institution's Jazz Oral History Project and the Duke Ellington Society. He had worked with major figures in various jazz forms, and had what has been described as a ''prolific freelance career.''
        Alfred W. Hall was born in Jacksonville, Fla., on March 8, 1915, and grew up in Philadelphia. At age 8 he began playing the cello, then the double bass, hoping for a career in symphonic music. This was not possible, however, because symphonic ensembles of the time hired no black musicians. Worked With Teddy Wilson
        Mr. Hall worked briefly with Philadelphia bands and in 1936 came to New York and joined Billy Hicks's Sizzling Six. He also performed with big bands in the Savoy Ballroom, Cafe Society and the Blue Angel. In 1939, when Teddy Wilson, the pianist, left Benny Goodman's band to form his own orchestra, Mr. Hall joined the group.
        He later worked with Ellis Larkins, Kenny Clarke, Erroll Garner, Count Basie, Phil Moore, Benny Goodman, Hazel Scott, Eubie Blake, Billie Holiday, Dexter Gordon, Ben Webster, Eddie Condon and Tiny Grimes.
        As a young musician, Mr. Hall played in an orchestra accompanying Alberta Hunter, a celebrated blues singer. When she returned to performing, in 1978, he joined her group at the Cookery in Greenwich Village. He also played at the Village Vanguard and Gregory's. Accompanied Yves Montand
        In addition to teaching and recording, Mr. Hall played extensively in Broadway theaters. In 1946 when he joined the orchestra for ''Barefoot Boy with Cheek,'' he became the first black musician in a Broadway pit orchestra, according to one of his daughters, Nancy Hicks Maynard. He later played for ''High Button Shoes,'' ''The Music Man,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and ''Gypsy.'' He accompanied Yves Montand in his first one-man show here.
        As owner and creative director of Wax Records, Mr. Hall produced and arranged four records in 1946 and 1947. Three were selected as Downbeat magazine's Record of the Year.
        In addition to Mrs. Maynard, who lives in Oakland, Calif., Mr. Hall is survived by a daughter, Barbara Bishop of Hartford, and a son, Alfred W. Hall Jr. of Hartsdale, N.Y.
        A memorial service is scheduled for 10:30 A.M. Saturday at St. Peter's Church, 54th Street and Lexington Avenue.
      