
       Dr. Lewis R. Wolberg, a psychoanalyst and founder and former chairman of the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health, died of a heart attack Feb. 3 at his winter home in La Penita, Jalisco, Mexico, near Puerto Vallarta. He was 82 years old and also lived in Putnam Valley, N.Y.
        Dr. Lewis R. Wolberg, a psychoanalyst and founder and former chairman of the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health, died of a heart attack Feb. 3 at his winter home in La Penita, Jalisco, Mexico, near Puerto Vallarta. He was 82 years old and also lived in Putnam Valley, N.Y.
        The Postgraduate Center is the oldest low-cost psychiatric clinic in New York City. It was founded in 1945 by Dr. Wolberg and his wife, Arlene R. Wolberg, a psychiatric social worker. The clinic began in the basement of a brownstone and outgrew two other homes, until it settled into its present location in an eight-story building at 124 East 28th Street.
        Dr. Wolberg founded the center to aid World War II veterans. Now it provides outpatient and inpatient services, resident training and community health care.
        Dr. Wolberg was born in Odessa in the Ukraine. He graduated from the University of Rochester and the Tufts College Medical School. He trained at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and was certified by the American Institute for Psychoanalysis in 1943.
        An advocate of using hypnosis in psychoanalysis, Dr. Wolberg wrote extensively on the subject. He was the author or editor of 20 books, including the text ''The Technique of Psychotherapy.''
        Dr. Wolberg was an attending psychiatrist at New York University and Bellevue Hospitals at his death. From 1967 to 1986, he was professor of psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine. Dr. Wolberg was dean and medical director of the Postgraduate Center until 1970 and the chairman of the center from 1970 to 1986.
        Surviving are his wife and two daughters, Barbara Jane Hamburger and Ellen May Baumwoll, both of Manhattan.
      