
       Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Delicatessen and Restaurant, was eulogized yesterday amid laughter and tears as a ''prince of pastrami,'' a ''deli lama'' and a quintessential New Yorker at a memorial service at the Sutton Place Synagogue.
        Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Delicatessen and Restaurant, was eulogized yesterday amid laughter and tears as a ''prince of pastrami,'' a ''deli lama'' and a quintessential New Yorker at a memorial service at the Sutton Place Synagogue.
        More than 500 mourners - celebrities, cooks and waitresses from the famous restaurant on Seventh Avenue near 55th Street, a postal worker, family and friends and customers who had feasted on Mr. Steiner's mountainous sandwiches, brimming bowls of pickles and alluring cheesecakes -gathered for a service that ranged from film clips of Mr. Steiner extolling the virtues of rye bread to the jokes of Henny Youngman and the personal reminiscences and prayers of Rabbi David B. Kahane, spritual leader of the synagogue at 225 East 51st Street, between Second and Third Avenues.
        Mr. Steiner, who personified his restaurant at 854 Seventh Avenue as it grew in popularity and expanded to the Washington area, Atlantic City and Secaucus, N.J., died Dec. 31 at age 48 of a brain tumor.
        Yesterday, he was remembered principally as he was in life - a warm and generous host, a restaurateur obsessed with quality and an intelligent businessman who remained unpretentious despite his enormous success.
        It was announced at the service that a chair in Yiddish studies, named for Mr. Steiner, was being established at the synagogue's Pauline Birnbaum Jewish Educational Center.
        Among those who spoke at the service were Herbert P. Rickman, a special assistant to Mayor Koch, the television luminaries Frank Field, Warner Wolf, Joel Siegel and Don Hewitt, the radio personality Alan B. Colmes and the playwright and screenwriter Andrew Bergman, who said that if Sholem Aleichem and Damon Runyon had collaborated, they would have created the ''mensch in an apron'' who was Leo Steiner.
      