
       Baron Philippe de Rothschild, a member of the Rothschild banking family, owner of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild in Bordeaux and a tireless champion of French wines, died at his home in Paris yesterday after a long illness. He was 85 years old.
        Baron Philippe de Rothschild, a member of the Rothschild banking family, owner of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild in Bordeaux and a tireless champion of French wines, died at his home in Paris yesterday after a long illness. He was 85 years old.
        Philippe de Rothschild was a Parisian by birth and inclination, but Mouton was his first love. For half a century, he signed his bottles with this device: ''Premier ne puis, second ne daigne, Mouton suis.'' ''I cannot be first, I do not deign to be second, I am Mouton.''
        Behind this ironic motto, adapted from the aristocratic Rohan family, was a long and bitter battle to gain the rating he insisted was his right - a position among the first growths of Bordeaux, the wines generally conceded to be the best of France.
        Four chateaus were judged to be at the head of the list compiled by the Bordeaux wine trade in 1855: Haut-Brion, Lafite, Margaux and Latour. Drive for First Growth
        From the day he took over Mouton in 1922, at the age of 20, Philippe de Rothschild worked to make Mouton a first growth, or premier cru. In 1973, he succeeded.
        He celebrated by using a Picasso painting, ''Bacchanale,'' as his label that year, and by changing his motto to ''I am first, I was second, Mouton never changes.''
        Since 1945, all Mouton labels have been special. That year, Baron Philippe, back from the war, began changing his label annually. The 1945 vintage, a great one, bore a label proclaiming ''The Year of Victory.''
        For every subsequent Mouton vintage he commissioned a renowned artist to design the label. Jean Cocteau, an old family friend, did it in 1947; Georges Braque drew a partly filled glass and a bunch of grapes for 1955 and Salvador Dali produced a squiggly sheep for 1958. Over the years, Henry Moore, Andy Warhol, Marc Chagall, Robert Motherwell and the film director John Houston all did labels for Mouton-Rothschild. The exception was 1953, Mouton-Rothschild's centenary. Baron Philippe dedicated the '53 label to his forebears. A Parisian at Heart
        Philippe de Rothschild was born in Paris on April 13, 1902. His father, Baron Henri, was a descendant of the English branch of the Rothschilds. Baron Philippe's parents first sent him south to Mouton during World War I. In 1922, he returned and, emotionally at least, never left again. ''There was no electricity,'' he liked to recall, ''no running water, no telephone. Animals wandered through the cellars.''
        Over the next six and a half decades, he poured millions of francs into Mouton, situated Pauillac commune, 35 miles north of Bordeaux.
        In the 1930's he bought the adjoining Chateau d'Armailhacq and changed its name to Chateau Mouton-Baron-Philippe. When his second wife, the American designer Pauline Fairfax-Potter, died in 1976, he changed the name to Chateau Mouton-Baronne-Philippe. In 1970, he bought Chateau Clerc-Milon, a property halfway between Mouton and its great rival, Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, owned by his French cousins. A Man of Letters and Sport
        Away from the vineyards, Baron Philippe was a sportsman, a theatrical and film producer and a writer and translator.
        He built a theater in Paris and produced plays by Sacha Guitry, Jules Romains and Jean Giradoux. In the 1920's, at the wheel of a Stutz or a Bugatti, he competed regularly in the Le Mans 24-Hour and Monaco Grand Prix races. A yachtsman, he developed the French seaside resort of Arcachon on the Bay of Biscay. A champion bobsledder, he refused to compete in the 1936 Olympics because of the persecution of Jews in Germany.
        As a writer, he produced several volumes of poetry. He translated Christopher Marlowe's ''Dr. Faustus'' and ''Tamburlaine the Great,'' and among contemporary writers, the works of Christopher Fry, including the play ''The Lady's Not for Burning.'' He also wrote the lyrics for a ballet, ''Vendange,'' by Darius Milhaud.
        Baron Philippe's first wife, Elisabeth de Chambure, was deported by the Germans and died in the Ravensbruck concentration camp in 1945. He escaped through Spain and North Africa to join de Gaulle in London and landed in Normandy in 1944.
        With his second wife, Pauline, whom he married in 1954, he turned Mouton into an architectural showcase and built one of the world's foremost museums of wine art and artifacts there.
        Baron Philippe, in his custom-made smocks, and Baroness Pauline, in her green mink coat, were the stars of the Bordeaux ''season'' for two decades. At their table, often adorned with fungi and artfully arranged weeds, could be found the political, literary and theatrical names from three continents.
        In recent years, Baron Philippe's daughter, Philippine Sereys-Rothschild, has largely assumed his role in the direction and promotion of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild.
        Baron Philippe is survived by his daughter, who has taken the title of Baroness Philippine de Rothschild, and a grandson.
        Correction:  January 22, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
      