
       Leon Goossens, an oboist who helped refine the instrument's potential and inspired composers to write music to showcase it, died Friday night at the age 90, his family said today.
        Leon Goossens, an oboist who helped refine the instrument's potential and inspired composers to write music to showcase it, died Friday night at the age 90, his family said today.
        Mr. Goossens died at Nuffield Hospital in Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
        Among the composers who dedicated works to him were Benjamin Britten, Francis Poulenc and Sir Edward Elgar, whose 1934 ''Soliloquy for Oboe and Strings,'' one of his last works, was composed in honor of his friend Mr. Goossens.
        The oboist was a Liverpool native. The son of the conductor Eugene Goossens, he began studying the oboe when he was 10, and at 16 was offered a place with the Queens Hall Orchestra. By the next year he was principal oboist and had already begun to change the oboe's role as an orchestral instrument. #9 Cents Extra for a Solo Mr. Goossens joined the Liverpool Orchestra, which paid him 22 cents a night, plus an extra 9 cents for tackling a difficult solo in the ''William Tell Overture.''
        He played with some of the finest orchestras of the day and by 1927, after joining Sir Thomas Beecham at the London Philharmonic, he became a soloist. Mr. Goossens also went on to play and record for top bands, including Jack Hylton's jazz orchestra at the Kit Kat Club in London. He also played in the United States.
        ''He was the finest woodwind instrumentalist this country has ever produced,'' said James Brown, 58, oboist with the English Chamber Orchestra. ''He was a great influence not only on myself, but on woodwind playing in general.''
        A celebrated clarinetist, Jack Brymer, 73, said Mr. Goossens ''did more for the development of woodwind playing throughout the world than any other person.'' A Commander of British Empire
        ''He opted out of the orchestral world at a fairly early age,'' Mr. Brymer said, ''but remained a great soloist almost to the end of his very long life.''
        Mr. Goossens was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1950 and received the Cobbett Medal for services to chamber music in 1954. He toured the world until 1962, when a serious car accident temporarily halted his career. His other interest was sailing, and he was a stalwart of the London Corinthian Sailing Club.
        Mr. Goossens was married for 52 years to the former Leslie Burrows. She died in 1985.  He is survived by two sisters, both harpists - Marie, 93, and Sidonie, 87, who was principal harpist with the British Broadcastng Corporation Symphony Orchestra for 50 years. Funeral arrangements were pending.
      