
       Arthur Mizener, a professor, critic and author of the acclaimed first biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at the Metacom Manor Health Center, a nursing home, in Bristol, R.I., where he lived. He was 80 years old.
        Arthur Mizener, a professor, critic and author of the acclaimed first biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at the Metacom Manor Health Center, a nursing home, in Bristol, R.I., where he lived. He was 80 years old.
        Professor Mizener's best-selling biography of Fitzgerald, ''The Far Side of Paradise,'' was published in 1951 by Houghton Mifflin, a decade after a heart attack ended the downward-spiraling career of the canonizer of the Jazz Age of the 1920's.
        The biography was credited with reviving interest in Fitzgerald, now considered one of the great American novelists of the 20th century, who wrote ''This Side of Paradise'' (1920), ''The Great Gatsby'' (1925) and ''Tender is the Night'' (1934). 'Scholarly, but Never Dull'
        The novelist Budd Schulberg, reviewing the Mizener book in The New York Times, said ''this important, first biography'' of Fitzgerald was ''timely, scholarly, but never dull.''
        ''Mizener makes credible the almost incredible life of a man who had the world at his feet when he was 25 and at his throat when he was 40,'' Mr. Schulberg said.
        Twenty years later, in 1971, another biography by Professor Mizener was published, again to critical praise, but not with the same commercial success.
        The book, ''The Saddest Story: A Biography of Ford Madox Ford,'' published by World Publishing, described the life of the prolific British novelist who also was the founder of two brilliant literary journals, The English Review and The Transatlantic Review.
        A review in The New Republic said that in his ''beautifully documented'' biography ''Mizener tells Ford's story as it has not been told before in the dozen or more books that have been written about him by others.''
        As a critic of the modern novel, Professor Mizener, who taught English at Cornell University from 1951 until his retirement in 1975, wrote scores of essays and book reviews for many publications. He also wrote a book on criticism, ''The Sense of Life in the Modern Novel,'' which was published in 1964 by Houghton Mifflin.
        Professor Mizener, who was born in Erie, Pa., went to the Hill School and then to Princeton University, from which he graduated in 1930 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He received his master's degree in English from Harvard University in 1932 and, returning to Princeton, his doctorate in 1934.
        Over the next 16 years, he taught at Yale University, Wells College in Aurora, N.Y. and Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., where he became chairman of the English department before moving on to Cornell.
        In 1935, he married Rosemary Paris. She died in 1986. He is survived by a daughter, Rosemary Colt of Little Compton, R.I.; a sister, Virginia Jarecki of Erie, and three grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at noon on Feb. 27 at the United Congregational Church in Little Compton.
      