
       Franklin H. Kissner, a financier and collector of rare books, died Feb. 4 at New York Hospital after a fall and cerebral hemorrhage. He was 77 years old, with residences in Manhattan and in Bethlehem, Pa.
        Franklin H. Kissner, a financier and collector of rare books, died Feb. 4 at New York Hospital after a fall and cerebral hemorrhage. He was 77 years old, with residences in Manhattan and in Bethlehem, Pa.
        Mr. Kissner, a native of Pennsylvania, was a 1930 summa cum laude graduate of Harvard and studied at the Sorbonne and as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. Unable to picture himself as a teacher, he went into business instead, starting as a certified public accountant with Price, Waterhouse in Pittsburgh.
        He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II and with the United States military government in Germany. Discharged as a colonel, he became vice president of finance at Textron and was controller of Lever Brothers before joining the Dyson Corporation as executive vice president in 1952. A 'Thwarted Archeologist'
        The Manhattan-based company, now Dyson-Kissner-Moran, is a privately held investment concern with diversified holdings in many different industries. Mr. Kissner was its president from 1962 until his retirement in 1975, and he continued to serve as a director.
        Mr. Kissner, who described himself as a ''thwarted archeologist,'' had a strong background in classical studies. He was known for his extensive collection of fine books about the rediscovery of ancient Rome.
        Its 4,500 books, in many languages, included some from the early days of printing. The collection ranged over six centuries, starting roughly with the early Renaissance, when scholars, artists and philosophers began seriously to reflect on the legacy of Italy and started digging for the evidence.
        Mr. Kissner was a fellow of the Pierpoint Morgan Library, an adviser to the Princeton Arts Museum, a trustee of Friends of Harvard Library and a member of the Grolier Club.
        He is survived by a brother, Raymond J. of Jim Thorpe, Pa., and two sisters, Emily K. Seifert of Allentown, Pa., and Dorothea R. Arbizzani of Bethlehem, Pa.
      