
       Leon Goossens, the English oboist who took an ancient instrument and gave it modern refinement and flexibility, died in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England, on Friday. He was 90 years old.
        Leon Goossens, the English oboist who took an ancient instrument and gave it modern refinement and flexibility, died in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England, on Friday. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Goossens' exceptional gifts had an influence far beyond his own performances. Composers such as Benjamin Britten, Francis Poulenc, Arnold Bax, Arthur Bliss and Sir Edward Elgar wrote music for him, and his development of the oboe's tone and expressive power worked its effect not only on the woodwind players around him but also on composers seeking to use orchestral sound in new and expanded ways.
        He was born into a musical family in Liverpool, his father being the eminent conductor Eugene Goossens. Mr. Goossens began playing the oboe at 10, and by 17 he was the principal player for the Queens Hall Orchestra. After duty in World War I, during which he was wounded, Mr. Goossens served at Covent Garden under the conductor Sir Thomas Beecham, often taking his place when Beecham was late for rehearsals. At about that time, he also began teaching oboe at the Royal College of Music in London. Survived 1962 Accident
        Eager for a solo career of his own, Mr. Goossens was one of the first wind players to leave the relative security of an orchestra job and go out on his own. He found his career limited by the paucity of important works written for his instrument, and he undertook a strenuous - and successful - campaign to persuade the major creative minds around him to add to the repertory. He also survived a career-threatening trauma in June 1962 when a car accident damaged his teeth and lips. For those who play double-reed instruments, these are physical attributes as sensitive and valuable as a pianist's hands or a dancer's feet. Mr. Goossens persisted and learned new techniques to circumvent the damage to his playing apparatus.
        Mr. Goossens' interests were wide. He played and recorded popular music with such bands as Jack Hylton's jazz orchestra at London's Kit Kat Club. He was also an enthusiastic sailor and an active member of the London Corinthian Sailing Club. He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1950, culminating a long ascent from his early playing days with the Liverpool Orchestra, when he was paid 22 cents a night plus an extra 9 cents if his services on the oboe's larger brother, the English horn, were required.
        An oboist with the English Chamber Orchestra, James Brown, calls Mr. Goossens ''the finest woodwind instrumentalist this country has ever produced. He was a great influence not only on myself but on woodwind playing in general.'' The clarinetist Jack Brymer said Mr. Goossens ''did more for the development of woodwind playing throughout the world than any other person.''
        Mr. Goossens's wife of 52 years, the former Leslie Burrows, died three years ago. He is survived by his sisters - both of them harpists - Marie, 93, and Sidonie, 87. The latterhas played principal harp with the BBC Symphony Orchestra for 50 years.
      