
       Bartlett H. Hayes Jr., an educator and art historian who was director for many years of the Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., died of congestive heart failure on Sunday in Peterboro, N.H. He was 83 years old and had lived in Peterboro since 1985.
        Bartlett H. Hayes Jr., an educator and art historian who was director for many years of the Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., died of congestive heart failure on Sunday in Peterboro, N.H. He was 83 years old and had lived in Peterboro since 1985.
        An impassioned teacher who loved working with young people, Mr. Hayes was in large part responsible for the strong role of the visual arts in the Phillips curriculum. As director of the Addison Gallery - the only full-scale museum in the country attached to a secondary school - and chairman of the art department from 1940 to 1969, he made the superb collection a classroom tool for courses in art appreciation that are now required for graduation.
        He was also a prime mover in establishing studio courses to give students experience in creating art, inviting such well-known artists as Charles Sheeler for residencies at the school. As the studio art program outgrew its basement quarters at the gallery, he helped raise money to build the Art Center, a studio and classroom facility for the visual arts that opened in 1963.
        Fascinated by the art of his time, Mr. Hayes in the 1930's mounted at the Addison Gallery one of the first exhibitions in this country devoted to the work of Alexander Calder. Believing that art should be made accessible to a larger public, he was co-author of ''The Layman's Guide to Modern Art'' in 1949, with Mary Rathbun Hemmenway, and in 1954 he published ''The Naked Truth and Personal Vision,'' a book that also tried to explain the nature of modern art. He also wrote ''The Intent of Art,'' one of the early television series on contemporary art, broadcast in 1965 over Channel 13. Studied Painting in Europe
        Born in Andover on Aug. 5, 1904, to Bartlett Harding and Marjorie Scull Hayes, Mr. Hayes grew up in Andover and was graduated from Phillips in 1922. Four years later he received a B.A. degree in chemistry from Harvard. After graduation, he studied painting in this country and in Europe. Returning to Andover in 1933, he become an instructor in studio art and art history at the academy. He was also assistant curator at the Addison Gallery and became its second director in 1940, a post he held for 29 years. From 1970 to 1973 he was director of the American Academy in Rome.
        Mr. Hayes was a frequent lecturer and was a member of the Art Commission of the Smithsonian Institution from 1954 until his death and a trustee of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston from 1949 to 1971. His last book, ''Tradition Becomes Innovation: Modern Religious Architecture in America,'' was published in 1983.
        Mr. Hayes is survived by his wife, the former Clare Wadleigh; three daughters, Deborah Gillette of Paris, Delia-Maria Thompson of Cambridge, Mass., and Hilary Dyer of Reddington Shores, Fla.; a brother, Dr. Guy Hayes of Blue Hill, Me., and four grandchildren.
        A funeral service is scheduled for 11:30 A.M. Thursday at All Saints Church in Peterboro.
      