
       Wilson Ferreira Aldunate, the leader of Uruguay's largest opposition party, died today after a yearlong fight against cancer, his family said. He was 69 years old.
        Wilson Ferreira Aldunate, the leader of Uruguay's largest opposition party, died today after a yearlong fight against cancer, his family said. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Ferreira Aldunate lived in exile for 11 years after Uruguay's military seized power in 1973. He had been a presidential candidate in 1971 but narrowly lost in what he claimed was a fraudulent election.
        An outspoken critic of the right-wing military regime, he was sent to prison upon his return to Uruguay in 1984 and was not released until five days after the voting in 1985 under which Uruguay was returned to civilian rule under the conservative Colorado Party.
        Government officials today praised Mr. Ferreira Aldunate, leader of the liberal Blanco Party, for easing the transition to civilian rule by supporting the conservatives' move to grant virtual amnesty to members of the armed forces accused of human rights violations.
        ''He lived as a gladiator and died a messenger of peace,'' said President Julio Maria Sanguinetti, who proclaimed a national day of mourning.
        President Raul Alfonsin of Argentina lamented the loss of ''a notable figure in Uruguayan democracy and in Latin America.'' Longtime Blanco Party Figure
        The son of a rancher and rural doctor, Mr. Ferreira Aldunate was a member of Congress for 34 years and was Agriculture Minister from 1963 to 1967.
        Mr. Ferreira Aldunate consolidated control over the Blanco Party in the 1960's while he served in the Senate, opposing the Government of former President Jorge Pacheco Areco.
        He won the most votes overall in the 1971 elections but the Blancos, under whose banner he was running, lost the presidency by 12,000 votes to the Colorados, whose candidate, Juan Maria Bordaberry, became President.
        In June 1973 the armed forces dissolved the legislature. Mr. Ferreira was forced into exile for the next 11 years after making a harsh statement denouncing the military takeover. He lived in Argentina, Peru, Britain and Spain, becoming active in human rights organizations and in movements opposing military rule in Uruguay.
        In June 1984 he returned to Uruguay, only to be arrested immediately.
        After he was freed he returned to political activity, resuming the Blanco Party presidency, though there was dissension in some party circles over his support of the military amnesty. He would have been eligible to run in elections scheduled for next year.
        Survivors include his wife, two sons and a daughter.
      