
       Joe Besser, a comedian who was one of the later members of the Three Stooges and played the whining brat Stinky in the Abbott and Costello television show, was found dead in his home today. He was 80 years old and had been ill for six months, said his press agent of 15 years, Jeff Lenburg.
        Joe Besser, a comedian who was one of the later members of the Three Stooges and played the whining brat Stinky in the Abbott and Costello television show, was found dead in his home today. He was 80 years old and had been ill for six months, said his press agent of 15 years, Jeff Lenburg.
        ''I go back 50 years with Joe Besser when I played vaudeville with him,'' said Milton Berle. ''He was one of a kind. He was very innovative, very creative. He was a darling of a man, very congenial.''
        Mr. Besser was one of the Stooges from 1955 to 1959, replacing Samuel (Shemp) Howard. Shemp had become a member of the group after his brother, Jerome (Curly) Howard, had a stroke in 1946. Mr. Besser played the character Joe, who would often whine, ''Oooh, you crazy,'' as he was slapped around by Moe Howard.
        The trio specialized in head-knocking, belly-butting slapstick, pratfalls and endless buffoonery.
        The original Three Stooges, created in the vaudeville days of the 1920's, were Morris (Moe) Horowitz, who changed his last name to Howard; his brother, Curly, and Larry Fineberg, who used the stage name Fine.
        Mr. Besser called his Stooge work ''the happiest years of my life in show business.'' He was on hand in 1983, when the Three Stooges were awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
        In the 1940's, his portrayal of an exasperated, whining child earned him a spot in Olsen and Johnson's long-running Broadway show ''Sons of Fun.''
        In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Besser became a regular on several shows, including ''The Ken Murray Show,'' ''The Joey Bishop Show'' and ''The Abbott and Costello Show.''
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Ernie.
      