
       Luther M. Swygert, a senior Federal appeals judge who handed down important decisions on issues ranging from labor relations to civil rights, died Wednesday at the Whitehall Convalescent Home in Chicago. He was 83 years old and lived in Chicago and Dune Acres, Ind.
        Luther M. Swygert, a senior Federal appeals judge who handed down important decisions on issues ranging from labor relations to civil rights, died Wednesday at the Whitehall Convalescent Home in Chicago. He was 83 years old and lived in Chicago and Dune Acres, Ind.
        Judge Swygert received national attention in 1948 when, as a Federal district judge, he issued an injunction restraining strikes by the International Typographical Union in the first major case brought under the Taft-Hartley Act.
        Later, sitting on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, he was known for his strong defenses of civil rights. Among his rulings was one upholding the right of members of the Hare Krishna sect to solicit contributions at O'Hare Airport and another ordering cross-district busing of children to remedy racial discrimination in schools in Indianapolis.
        In 1979, he wrote an opinion ordering a new trial in a suit filed against Federal and state law-enforcement agents by survivors of a 1969 raid by the Chicago police in which two leaders of the Black Panther Party were killed. The opinion overturned a lower court ruling in favor of the government.
        Born in Miami County, Indiana, Judge Swygert attended the University of Notre Dame and received his law degree from the Notre Dame School of Law in 1927. After a brief career in private practice, he was appointed deputy prosecuting attorney for Lake County, Indiana, in 1931, and became assistant United States attorney for the northern district of Indiana in 1934.
        In 1943, Mr. Swygert was appointed by President Roosevelt as the United States judge for the Northern District of Indiana. He became chief judge for that district in 1954. In 1961, he was elevated to the Seventh Circuit court by President Kennedy. He was named chief judge of the Seventh Circuit in 1970 and held that position until 1975 when he became a senior judge.
        Judge Swygert's first wife, Mildred Kercher Swygert, died in 1969. He is survived by his second wife, Gertrude Pancoe Swygert; a son, Michael I. Swygert, and two grandsons.
        A memorial service will be held May 6 at the Federal Courthouse in Chicago.
      