
       Paul Kohner, a prominent Hollywood agent, died of heart failure Wednesday at the University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 85 years old.
        Paul Kohner, a prominent Hollywood agent, died of heart failure Wednesday at the University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 85 years old.
        During the 50 years that Mr. Kohner headed the Paul Kohner Agency, he represented hundreds of motion-picture actors and directors, including Ingmar Bergman, Maurice Chevalier, Marlene Dietrich, Greta Garbo, John Huston, Liv Ullmann and Billy Wilder.
        Mr. Kohner was born in Teplice-Sanov in what is now Czechoslovakia, and wrote for his father's film-industry newspaper in Prague. In 1920, he interviewed Carl Laemmle, the president of Universal Pictures, who invited Mr. Kohner to come to the United States to work for Universal. Mr. Kohner served in the company's publicity, distribution and production departments in New York and Los Angeles, and became head of Universal's European division in Berlin in the late 1920's.
        He returned to the United States in the mid-1930's, and produced dozens of films, including ''The Hunchback of Notre Dame,'' William Wyler's ''House Divided,'' ''The Chinese Parrot'' and ''Love Me and the World Is Mine,'' as well as more than 50 Spanish and other foreign-language movies. Helped Emigre Artists
        Mr. Kohner opened his talent agency in 1938, and many of his early clients were European actors who had fled from the Nazis. His activities on behalf of emigre artists continued through World War II, when he helped organize the European Relief Fund, which provided financial and immigration assistance.
        Mr. Kohner's agency expanded during the 1940's and 1950's, and his illustrious client list grew to include Yul Brynner, Henry Fonda, Walter Huston, David Niven, Marcel Pagnol, Douglas Sirk, Lana Turner and Erich von Stroheim.
        He also arranged American distribution for the films of Ingmar Bergman, who once said that Mr. Kohner's life ''includes the history of the movies.'' And John Huston, a client for more than 40 years, said of Mr. Kohner: ''We lasted through marriages and wars and good times and disasters - nothing lasts forever except Paul and me.''
        Mr. Kohner is survived by his wife, Lupita Tovar of Los Angeles; a daughter, Susan Kohner Weitz of New York City; a son, Paul J. ''Pancho'' Kohner of Los Angeles; a brother, Walter, of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      