
       Alexander M. Lewyt, a manufacturer and inventor who developed a vacuum cleaner that bore his name, died Friday at his home in Sands Point, L.I. He was 79 years old and also lived in Manhattan and Chartres, France.
        Alexander M. Lewyt, a manufacturer and inventor who developed a vacuum cleaner that bore his name, died Friday at his home in Sands Point, L.I. He was 79 years old and also lived in Manhattan and Chartres, France.
        Mr. Lewyt (pronounced LOO-it), who held patents for scores of inventions and once said he had chronic insomnia from thinking them up, was best known for the Lewyt vacuum cleaner, a compact machine with no dust bag that was designed to operate without distorting television and radio reception.
        For the last 30 years, he was president of the North Shore Animal League on Long Island and was credited with restoring it to solvency and turning it into one of the largest animal shelters in the country.
        Mr. Lewyt, a compulsive worker, was praised for the sales techniques used to promote his vacuum cleaners, which his company, the Lewyt Corporation, sold door to door after World War II. He visited 100 homes to see, he said, what housewives were looking for in vacuums. Award for Vacuum Cleaner
        In the first eight years after his vacuum cleaner was introduced, the company sold two million, and Mr. Lewyt received an award from the American Society of Industrial Engineers for ''leadership in the vacuum-cleaner field.''
        He was born in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan in 1908, the son of an Austrian immigrant who ran a shop near Gramercy Park in Manhattan that made metallic gadgets like coat hangers. By the time he was in high school, he was working for his father, fashioning such things as metal holders for harmonicas.
        When he heard an undertakers' supplier complain that it was hard to fasten neckties around corpses, Alex, who was not yet 16, devised a new kind of bow tie that would clip on. He sold 50,000 of them, but it is unclear whether he ever patented the concept.
        After his father died, Mr. Lewyt took over the family shop and turned it into the Lewyt Corporation. During World War II the company did a multimillion-dollar business, manufacturing such items as radar antennas and popcorn poppers. Mr. Lewyt was made a member of the French Legion of Honor for his company's work in making equipment for the Allies during World War II.
        After selling his interest in the Lewyt Corporation to the Budd Corporation, Mr. Lewyt retired in the late 1950's and turned his attention to the animal league because, he said, ''my wife adored animals, and I adored my wife.''
        When he started, the North Shore shelter handled but a few thousand animal adoptions a year. Now it places 60,000 animals and has a policy of not destroying any.
        Mr. Lewyt was also a philanthropist and served on the board of directors of a number of enterprises, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He and his wife collected French oil paintings by such artists as Cezanne, Degas, Gauguin, Bonnard and Renoir. He is survived by his wife, Elisabeth. A funeral service will be held at 11:30 A.M. today at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Avenue.
        ALEXANDER M. LEWYT DEAD AT 79
      