
       Gil Evans, one of America's great jazz composers and arrangers, died of peritonitis Sunday in Cuernavaca, Mexico, where he had gone to recover from prostate surgery. He was 75 years old.
        Gil Evans, one of America's great jazz composers and arrangers, died of peritonitis Sunday in Cuernavaca, Mexico, where he had gone to recover from prostate surgery. He was 75 years old.
        Born in 1912 in Toronto, Mr. Evans, whose name was originally Ian Ernest Gilmore Green, took his surname from his stepfather. In the course of his career he became, after Duke Ellington, the most important composer and orchestrator in postwar jazz. He started his first band in 1933 in his hometown, Stockton, Calif., and was featured on Bob Hope's radio show. The arranger Claude Thornhill was brought in to help with scores, and when he left to form his own band, Mr. Evans went with him. Luminescent Arrangements
        It was with the Thornhill band, between 1941 and 1948, that Mr. Evans first started making a name for himself, writing luminescent, floating arrangements and reworking be-bop standards - ''Anthropology,'' ''Donna Lee'' and ''Yardbird Suite'' - for the orchestra. He approached Miles Davis for permission to use his ''Donna Lee.'' In exchange, the trumpeter asked to study Mr. Evans's compositions, starting one of the most important collaborations in American musical history.
        By 1947, Mr. Davis and Mr. Evans, along with Gerry Mulligan and John Lewis, had put together a big band. It worked its first date in September 1948 at the Royal Roost in New York City. Mr. Davis contracted with Capitol Records to record the band - including one of Mr. Evans's early arranging masterpieces, ''Boplicity,'' and between January 1949 and March 1950, they recorded 12 tunes that, in their soft, impressionistic pastels, their use of tuba and French horn (a holdover from the Thornhill band), and their refusal to treat the music as either dance or entertainment, irrevocably changed American composing and arranging.
        The band made no money, and until 1957 Mr. Evans supported himself writing commercial music and arrangements for singers, including Pearl Bailey, Tony Bennett, Peggy Lee, Johnny Mathis and Helen Merrill. A Fertile Period With Miles Davis
        Mr. Evans burst back on the scene in 1957 with ''Miles Ahead,'' a brilliant collaboration released under Mr. Davis's name; it earned them both extraordinary reviews. The record, a mixture of gentle, enveloping washes of sound and carefuly masked, brittle dissonances, began an especially fertile part of Mr. Evans's career.
        With Mr. Davis, he recorded ''Porgy and Bess'' in 1958 and ''Sketches of Spain'' in 1959. His success also allowed him to go into the studio with his own groups for the first time. His first album date, originally issued as ''Gil Evans Plus 10,'' showed his eclecticism and his feel for incorporating all sorts of American music into his conception. The material ranged from a Leadbelly composition, ''Ella Speed,'' to ''Big Stuff'' by Leonard Bernstein.
        In the early 60's, he recorded several classic albums. ''Out of the Cool,'' recorded in 1961, featured the classic composition ''La Nevada,'' and his gauzy, immensely felt orchestrations. He also chose his sidemen with great care. On ''Individualism of Gil Evans,'' recorded several years later, he used the master saxophonist Wayne Shorter, and throughout his career he employed Steve Lacy, Arthur Blythe, George Adams, Billy Harper and other first-rate soloists. Wrote Rock Arrangements
        In the mid-60's, he dropped out from lack of working opportunities, occasionally playing live shows. He did not record until 1969, and when he did he incorporated tough rock rhythms and an electric sound that he used until the end of his career. He even recorded a tribute to Jimi Hendrix, with whom he was supposed to work on an album. In the later part of his career, he wrote arrangements for the rock star Sting, and worked again with Mr. Davis, both to mixed reviews.
        His last sessions, recorded in 1987, includined a remaking of a classic 1956 date with Helen Merrill, and a duet with Mr. Lacy. But his best work was found in the band he led every Monday night for four years at Sweet Basil in Greenwich Village. A furious, always mutable combination of rock and jazz, Mr. Evans's music was an affirmation of his inquisitiveness and courage, and a tribute to the possibilities open to American artists. Four live double albums came out of the engagements.
        He is survived by his wife, Anita, and two sons, Miles and Noah.
      