
       Dr. Philip Birnbaum, a Jewish scholar and author whose translation of the synagogue liturgy has sold 300,000 copies since it was first published in 1949, died Saturday at his Manhattan home. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. Philip Birnbaum, a Jewish scholar and author whose translation of the synagogue liturgy has sold 300,000 copies since it was first published in 1949, died Saturday at his Manhattan home. He was 83 years old.
        The series of prayer books that bears Dr. Birnbaum's name - for Sabbath, holidays and daily devotions - has outsold every other English translation, according to his publisher, The Hebrew Publishing Company. One writer called him ''the most obscure best-selling author.''
        Trained as an educator and a scholar, Dr. Birnbaum turned his talents to popularizing Jewish knowledge, explaining in simple prose complicated concepts of law, tradition, language and culture. Among his 30 books are ''The Concise Jewish Bible,'' ''The Encyclopedia of Jewish Concepts,'' ''Fluent Hebrew'' and ''Maimonides's Code of Law and Ethics.''
        Dr. Birnbaum was born in Poland in 1904 and came to the United States in 1923. He received a Ph.D. from Dropsie College and served for several years as the principal of a Jewish day school in Delaware.
        As an educational tool he wrote his translation and condensation of the work of Maimonides, the 12th-century Jewish scholar. Dr. Birnbaum took his manuscript to the president of Hebrew Publishing, who told him there was a need for a good translation of the prayer book.
        In addition to his translating and writing, Dr. Birnbaum was a regular columnist and book reviewer for Hadoar, a Hebrew weekly published in the United States. He was also a member of the board of directors of HaHistadrut Ivrit B'America, the American association for the advancement of Hebrew language and culture.
        In 1986, the Jewish Book Council gave Dr. Birnbaum a citation for the excellence of the body of his work.
        Dr. Birnbaum is survived by a nephew, Avraham Shafir of Tel Aviv.
      