
       Dr. Patrick Steptoe, the obstetrician who inaugurated a new era in 1978 when one of his patients delivered a baby girl conceived in a laboratory dish, died Monday in Canterbury, England. He was 74 years old Dr. Steptoe's family said he had been suffering from cancer.
        Dr. Patrick Steptoe, the obstetrician who inaugurated a new era in 1978 when one of his patients delivered a baby girl conceived in a laboratory dish, died Monday in Canterbury, England. He was 74 years old Dr. Steptoe's family said he had been suffering from cancer.
        With his colleague, Dr. Robert G. Edwards, a specialist in female physiology, Dr. Steptoe had developed a way to remove mature egg cells from the ovary when they are ready for fertilization.
        In the procedure, in vitro fertilization, the eggs are fertilized by sperm in a glass container and allowed to develop briefly. One or more of the resulting embryos are then inserted into the uterus where, if all goes well, they develop normally. Dr. Edwards had learned how to control the female ovulatory cycle so that one or more egg cells would be ready on command. A Boon for Some Women
        Because fertilization normally occurs in the fallopian tubes, the new technique was a boon for some women who were unable to conceive as a result of damaged or missing tubes.
        Dr. Steptoe and Dr. Edwards achieved success in the Oldham General and District Hospital in Oldham, England, on July 25, 1978, when Louise Joy Brown became the world's first ''test-tube baby.'' Her mother, Lesley Brown, was unable to conceive normally because of damage to her fallopian tubes.
        Since Louise's birth thousands of children have been born by this method in Australia, Britain, the United States and elsewhere. The procedure is available at a number of clinics that specialize in the process or in variations of it. A Licensed Physician in 1939
        Patrick Christopher Steptoe was born in Oxfordshire on June 9, 1913. He studied medicine at St. George's Hospital Medical School, operated by the University of London, and in Dublin, Ireland. He became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons and was licensed by the Royal College of Physicians in 1939.
        At the outbreak of World War II he volunteered for the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve, and served as a naval surgeon until his ship was sunk off Crete in 1941, when the Germans conquered the Mediterranean island.
        He was captured and became a prisoner of war in Italy. As a physician, he was allowed to move freely about the camp; he reportedly helped prisoners escape and, as a result, was put in solitary confinement until he was released in a prisoner exchange in 1943.
        After the war Dr. Steptoe completed his medical studies and established a practice in Manchester, England, where he studied methods of sterilization and problems of infertility. He perfected the retrieval of eggs from the ovary and the use of the laparascope, a narrow tube with built-in optical fiber light that can be inserted into the abdominal cavity for medical procedures. In 1966 he began working with Dr. Edwards. Fame and Controversy
        The birth of Louise Brown brought worldwide fame to Dr. Steptoe and Dr. Edwards. They were made Commanders of the British Empire, and Dr. Steptoe received one of the highest accolades in the scientific world last year when he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society.
        But the achievements of Dr. Steptoe and Dr. Edwards also led to controversy because their procedures were considered unorthodox. In response to critics, including the Roman Catholic Church, who said his work might lead to socially undesirable manipulations, Dr. Steptoe asserted that halting such research would be comparable to forgoing the development of airplanes because they made bombing possible.
        Moreover, the results of their research were hailed by the large number of women who are unable to produce children because their oviducts are defective.
        A number of variations to the method developed by Dr. Steptoe and Dr. Edwards have since been developed, but most, if not all, owe their origins to their success.
        Dr. Steptoe is survived by his wife, Sheena, and a son and daughter.
      