
       Joseph S. Tushinsky, a former audio-industry executive, inventor and musician, died of pneumonia at his home in Encino, Calif., Monday. He was 78 years old.
        Joseph S. Tushinsky, a former audio-industry executive, inventor and musician, died of pneumonia at his home in Encino, Calif., Monday. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Tushinsky, for many years the chairman of the board of the Superscope Corporation and the Marantz Company, played a major role in developing the high-fidelity industry in the United States by becoming the first American importer of Sony audiotape recorders in the late 1950's.
        Mr. Tushinsky was born in New York City, and became a trumpeter with orchestras in St. Louis and New York, including the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Toscanini. Light Opera and Movies
        He embarked on a career in light opera, forming the Paper Mill Playhouse Light Opera Company in Millburn, N.J., in 1941, and conducting the Carnegie Hall Light Opera during 1942. He subsequently wrote several screenplays, including ''My Wild Irish Rose,'' which were made into motion pictures in the 1940's. He went to Hollywood in 1943 and served as associate producer for ''Delightfully Dangerous,'' starring Jane Powell, and other movies.
        With his brother Irving, Mr. Tushinsky developed a process known as Superscope, which optically squeezed film images for wide-screen projection. Superscope, which was introduced in 1953 and was in competition with the ultimately more successful Cinemascope process, helped to usher in the era of wide-screen pictures.
        While marketing the Superscope wide-screen process in Japan in 1957, Mr. Tushinsky discovered a small Japanese company called Sony and became intrigued with its stereo tape recorders. He became Sony's first American importer, although Sony soon established its own international distribution arm. Building Marantz
        In 1964, Superscope purchased the Marantz Company, and the merged company, under the Marantz name, became a major manufacturer of high-fidelity stereo components. In the late 1970's, Mr. Tushinsky also developed a player-pianolike device that used cassettes, called the Pianocorder Reproducing System. He retired as chairman of Marantz in 1987, when he sold the company to Cobra/Dynascan.
        Mr. Tushinsky is survived by two brothers, Fred and Nathan, and two sons, Joseph Jr. and Robert Joseph, all of Encino, and a daughter, Joy Rebecca, of Oceanside, Calif.
      