
       Jim Jacobs, a boxing historian and a co-manager of Mike Tyson, the heavyweight champion, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 58 years old.
        Jim Jacobs, a boxing historian and a co-manager of Mike Tyson, the heavyweight champion, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 58 years old.
        Bill Cayton, who was Mr. Jacobs's partner in managing Mr. Tyson, said Mr. Jacobs had suffered from lymphocytic leukemia for nine years.
        Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Cayton also managed Edwin Rosario, a former lightweight champion. They previously managed Wilfred Benitez, a former junior-welterweight, welterweight and superwelterweight champion.
        They were partners in Big Fights Inc., a company that owned the rights to more than 17,000 boxing films. A Handball Champion
        Mr. Jacobs was also a renowned handball player. He won six United States Handball Association national singles championships between 1955 and 1965, and teamed first with Dick Weisman and then with Marty Decatur to win six association doubles titles between 1960 and 1968.
        Mr. Jacobs was born in St. Louis and raised in Los Angeles.
        He was drafted during the Korean War and served two years in the infantry. ''I went in a private and came out a private,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''I wasn't the best soldier.''
        After being discharged, he returned to Los Angeles, where he worked for his father's business machine and supplies company and pursued his two passions: handball and boxing films.
        ''I adored boxing,'' Mr. Jacobs said several years ago, ''and that led me to become a serious film collector. By 17, 18 years old, I was trading fight films and learning who the collectors were. If a person is a real collector, of anything, there is a compulsion which is irresistible toward acquisition.''
        Mr. Jacobs also had a collection of more than 800,000 comic books, which he kept in storage in Los Angeles. Met Patterson's Handler
        In 1959, he was invited to show some of the 5,000 fight films he owned in New York. It was then that he met Cus D'Amato, the trainer and manager of Floyd Patterson, who was the heavyweight champion, and Jose Torres, who became the light-heavyweight champion.
        In June 1960, he began working with Mr. Cayton, seeking commercial outlets for their boxing films.
        When Mr. D'Amato moved to Catskill, N.Y., in the early 1970's, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Cayton financed his amateur boxing program there, a program that eventually included a young Mike Tyson.
        As co-managers of Mr. Tyson, Mr. Jacobs was primarily responsible for boxing decisions; Mr. Cayton concentrated on making business decisions.
        Mr. Cayton said Mr. Tyson was informed yesterday of Mr. Jacobs's death, but ''was too upset to say anything.''
        Mr. Jacobs is survived by his wife, Loraine, and a sister, Dorothy.
      