
       Elliott M. Estes, former president of General Motors Corporation, died of a heart attack yesterday while on a business trip to Chicago. He was 72 years old and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.
        Elliott M. Estes, former president of General Motors Corporation, died of a heart attack yesterday while on a business trip to Chicago. He was 72 years old and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.
        Mr. Estes collapsed at O'Hare International Airport, and was pronounced dead at Resurrection Hospital in Chicago, according to William B. Winters, a General Motors spokesman.
        Mr. Estes retired from General Motors on Feb. 1, 1981, after 47 years with the automobile company, the last six years as president.
        He was named General Motors' 15th president in 1974, at a time when the corporation was at its nadir, reeling from the combined effects of the Arab oil embargo and business recession. He is credited for the downsizing and fuel economy policies that bolstered G.M.'s market dominance and guided it through the 1970's.
        An engineer, Mr. Estes was praised yeterday by General Motors Chairman Roger B. Smith as ''one of G.M.'s brightest stars.''
        ''In whatever role he assumed for the corporation, he performed at peak capacity,'' said Mr. Smith. ''He demanded excellence from his subordinates, but he always drove himself harder than anyone else.'' Joined Company as Student
        Mr. Estes was born Jan. 7, 1916, in Mondon, Mich. In 1934, at age 18, he joined General Motors Research Laboratories as a cooperative student at the General Motors Institute in Flint, Mich. After four years at the institute, he studied two years at the University of Cincinnati where he received a degree in mechanical engineering in 1940.
        Mr. Estes joined the Oldsmobile Division as a development engineer in 1946. In 1956 he went to the Pontiac Motor Division as chief engineer. Five years later he was elected a vice president of General Motors and general manager of Pontiac, which he guided to third place in auto industry sales.
        He was named general manager of the Chevrolet Motor Division in 1965, where he added several new models, including the Chevelle SS 396 and the Camaro. Under his leadership, Chevrolet in 1965 became the first auto maker to build three million cars and trucks in a single year.
        In 1972, Mr. Estes was elected an executive vice president in charge of the Operations Staff and a member of the corporation's Board of Directors.
        He is survived by his wife, Connie, and three sons, Thomas, Edward and William.
      