
       Jean Le Poulain, one of France's most respected actors and the administrative director of the world-famous Comedie-Francaise, died of a heart attack at his home Tuesday night. He was 63 years old.
        Jean Le Poulain, one of France's most respected actors and the administrative director of the world-famous Comedie-Francaise, died of a heart attack at his home Tuesday night. He was 63 years old.
        After acting for 40 years in France's illustrious national theater as well as the popular houses known as the Boulevard, Mr. Le Poulain was named head of the 300-year-old Comedie Francaise in 1986.
        Mr. Le Poulain prided himself on making people laugh - ''Laughing paralyzes all miseries,'' he often said - but he also won rave notices for his work in tragedies. He was hailed for playing Shakespeare's Falstaff and Moliere's ''Tartuffe,'' but he also acted in works by Offenbach, Brecht and Corneille.
        ''A great actor has left us prematurely,'' Prime Minister Jacques Chirac said today. ''He gave a breath of fresh air to the great repertory works.'' Grew Up in Indochina
        The son of a French foreign-service officer, Mr. Le Poulain was born in Marseilles on Sept. 12, 1924, and spent much of his childhood in Indochina. He returned to France at 19, and three years later began studying at the National Conservatory of Theater Arts in Paris. He graduated in 1949, after winning the first prize in acting. In 1952, he began his own theater company, for which he directed and acted in plays ranging from Shakespeare to Jean Anouilh.
        In the 1950's also, he became one of Paris's biggest stars, acting in over 100 plays, including several by Jean Cocteau, who became a close friend.
        President Mitterrand named Mr. Le Poulain to head the Comedie Francaise, where he received widespread praise for his ambitious plans - although under him, as under his predecessor, the theater has had financial problems. He stopped acting and directing in order to dedicate himself to managing the institution. Expanded Scope
        During Mr. Le Poulain's tenure, France's Minister of Culture, Francois Leotard, gave the Comedie Francaise the opportunity to expand its activities and prestige by allowing it to use the stage at France's Theatre Nationale de l'Odeon for six months a year.
        Also under Mr. Le Poulain, the Comedie Francaise has begun using another well-known theater, Le Vieux Colombier, as a place to train novice actors.
        Two months ago, Mr. Le Poulain wrote in the daily newspaper Le Monde that his desire was for the Comedie Francaise ''to represent an image of quality and of identity with France'' and for it to be ''associated with several partners with the same national and international prestige.''
        Mr. Leotard said today: ''The curtain of the Comedie Francaise has fallen on a great voice. He was able to make people share, on the stage and in the administration of the Comedie Francaise, his passion for theater, for laughing and for life.''
        Mr. Le Poulain, who was a bachelor, was also author of a book, ''I Will Have the Last Laugh.''
      