
       Dr. Arthur Martin Vineberg, who developed artery transplants at McGill University in Montreal, died early Saturday of pneumonia at the university's Royal Victoria Hospital, where he worked for 55 years. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Arthur Martin Vineberg, who developed artery transplants at McGill University in Montreal, died early Saturday of pneumonia at the university's Royal Victoria Hospital, where he worked for 55 years. He was 84 years old.
        He developed the Vineberg procedure of surgery to revascularize the heart shortly after his return from World War II service with the Canadian Army Medical Corps. It was not until the mid-1960's that a skeptical medical profession began to accept it, but adaptations of his method remain widely in use at medical centers today.
        His procedure was designed to provide the heart with an alternate flow of blood, offsetting the dangerous blockages resulting from atherosclerosis in gravely ill heart patients. In 1967, as his surgery procedure came into more general use, he reported an 80 percent success in keeping transplanted arteries open to pump the blood the heart needs to live and work. Procedure Described
        He did this by transplanting an artery from the chest so that it would carry blood directly into the heart muscle or by removing the heart's outer lining to let other vessels send blood to the heart. In another variation, Dr. Vineberg surrounded the heart with tissue, rich in blood vessels, taken from the patient's abdominal cavity. A third-generation Montrealer, Dr. Vineberg earned his degree at McGill Medical School. After additional studies in Paris, he did his internship at New York's Bellevue Hospital. He returned to Montreal and, since 1933, had been on the staff of the Royal Victoria, McGill's original teaching hospital.
        He published a book, ''How to Live With Your Heart,'' ten years ago, and another one, ''The Complete Guide to Heart Health,'' was being prepared for publication at the time of his death.
        Dr. Vineberg is survived by a stepson, Brian Buckley, and one grandson, both of Toronto.
      