
       Lester Rawlins, a stage and television actor who won a Tony and three Obie Awards, died of cardiac arrest last Tuesday in his home on West End Avenue in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Lester Rawlins, a stage and television actor who won a Tony and three Obie Awards, died of cardiac arrest last Tuesday in his home on West End Avenue in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Rawlins won his Tony Award in 1978 for his appearance in ''Da,'' Hugh Leonard's drama of family conflict, where he portrayed Drumm, a businessman in a small Irish town. He won Obies for roles in Brendan Behan's ''The Quare Fellow,'' Ibsen's ''Hedda Gabler,'' and Robert Lowell's ''Benito Cereno.''
        In a review of ''Da'' in The New York Times, Richard Eder wrote, ''Lester Rawlins is brilliant as Drumm, rigid and harsh and at war with himself.'' Many Shakespearean Roles
        Mr. Rawlins played 23 different Shakespearean roles over the course of his career. In 1956, he played Gloucester in ''King Lear,'' with Orson Welles in the title role. He also appeared in ''Romeo and Juliet,'' ''Richard III,'' ''Othello,'' ''Macbeth'' and several productions of ''Hamlet.''
        Mr. Rawlins also performed in experimental new plays. He appeared in the world premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Endgame'' in 1958 and, in 1971, played the leading role of a middle-aged homosexual author confronting a new, liberated world in Lee Barton's ''Nightride.''
        ''He is a very daring actor,'' Clive Barnes wrote in a 1971 review of ''Nightride'' in The New York Times. ''He weaves his way through all the false thickets of his part and all the phony confusions of his style to offer a performance that is both honest and poetic.'' His Work on Television
        Mr. Rawlins did not confine his work to the stage. In the 1970's and 1980's, he appeared on such television series as ''Kojak,'' ''Banacek,'' ''The Defenders'' and, most recently, ''The Equalizer.'' He played characters on network soap operas and also participated in a dramatic reading of T. S. Eliot's poem, ''The Waste Land'' that appeared on public television in 1965.
        A native of Sharon, Pa., Mr. Rawlins graduated summa cum laude from Carnegie-Mellon University with a degree in drama.
        He is survived by his mother, Leona Rosenberg, and two sisters, Betty Barbas and Frances Mosias.
      