
       Dr. John Jacob Bookman, an internist specializing in diabetes, died in an auto accident in East Fishkill, N.Y., Sunday while driving back to Manhattan, where he lived and maintained his medical practice. He was 76 years old.
        Dr. John Jacob Bookman, an internist specializing in diabetes, died in an auto accident in East Fishkill, N.Y., Sunday while driving back to Manhattan, where he lived and maintained his medical practice. He was 76 years old.
        He was alone and returning from his country home in Jackson Corners in Dutchess County at around 5 P.M. when his car swerved off the Taconic State Parkway near the I-84 overpass, struck a tree and turned over, according to the state police.
        Dr. Bookman, a 1939 graduate of the New York University School of Medicine, had contributed many articles to medical journals. He began to practice in New York City after completing his residency at Mount Sinai Hospital in 1948. Headed Diabetics Clinic
        He remained associated with the hospital as an attending physician and was on the faculty of Mount Sinai Medical School from 1967 until his death. From 1977 to 1983, he served as chief of the Diabetics Clinic of the hospital.
        Dr. Bookman, who was born in Manhattan, began his residency at Mount Sinai in 1941 and then enlisted in the Navy. Sent to the Pacific theater as a doctor, he took part in the Bataan and Corregidor campaigns. He was captured by the Japanese and spent 40 months in a prison camp before his return to the United States as a lieutenant commander in 1945.
        He had been scheduled to lecture on his wartime experiences next month at a meeting of alumni of Mount Sinai Medical Center. He also was to have received an award in April from the New York chapter of the American Diabetes Association. He was a past president of the chapter.
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria Frankenthaler Bookman, an artist and tapestry maker known professionally as Gloria F. Ross; a daughter, Dr. Ann Edith Buehrens of Boston; a son, Richard J., of Philadelphia; two stepsons, Alfred and Clifford Ross of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Beverly Ross of Los Angeles; two sisters, Virginia Saffro of Milwaukee and Edith Schoenfield of Manhattan, and five grandchildren. His first wife, Ruth Lowe Bookman, died in 1973.
        A funeral will be held Thursday at 11:30 A.M. at the Campbell Funeral Chapel, Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
      