
       Dr. Paul Ramsey, a professor of religion at Princeton University for nearly 40 years and a widely recognized authority on medical ethics, died of a heart attack early yesterday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Dr. Paul Ramsey, a professor of religion at Princeton University for nearly 40 years and a widely recognized authority on medical ethics, died of a heart attack early yesterday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Dr. Ramsey's ''Basic Christian Ethics,'' first published in 1950, was for decades the single most extensively used text in religious seminaries. In a dozen other books and scores of articles he examined ethical questions in many areas, including war, politics and technology. But his greatest impact on social thought came through his examination of medical issues, such as abortion, euthanasia and genetic control.
        ''He was a man who thought more deeply and inquired more searchingly about fundamental moral questions than anyone else I can think of,'' said Leon Kass, a physician who was a founding fellow of the Institute of Society, Ethics and the Life Sciences and is now a professor at the University of Chicago on the Committee on Social Thought.
        Professor Kass recalled that before Dr. Ramsey wrote the earliest of his books on medical ethics, ''Fabricated Man: The Ethics of Genetic Control,'' (1970) and ''The Patient as Person'' (1971), he went out of his way to learn how medical people viewed ethics, spending time as a visiting scholar at the Kennedy Center on Bioethics at Georgetown University, where he could meet with doctors and inquire into their thinking. Opponent of 'Situation Ethics'
        Dr. Ramsey's work on ethical methodology, from both theological and philosophical viewpoints, led to his recognition as the principal opponent of ''situation ethics'' among Protestant thinkers. During the 1950's and 1960's, before concentrating on medical ethics, he devoted much of his attention to questions related to the morality of war and of nuclear deterrence, seeking a renewed understanding of the tradition of ''just wars.''
        Stanley Hauerwas, professor of religion at the Duke University Divinity School, noted yesterday that Dr. Ramsey was very concerned that the theological dimension not be lost in debate on moral questions.
        ''He held, for example, an overriding commitment to the protection of each person as a child of God,'' Professor Hauerwas said. ''In his view there could be no attack on the innocent, even for a good cause.'' Born in Mississippi
        Robert Paul Ramsey was born in Mendenhall, Miss., and received his bachelor's degree from Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss., a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Yale and a doctorate in philosophy, also from Yale. He taught at Millsaps and at Northwestern University before he joined the Princeton faculty as an assistant professor in 1944.
        Dr. Ramsey, who lectured widely and was a prolific writer, devoted much of the last 15 years of his life to preparing an edition of the complete works of Jonathan Edwards, the 18th-century Calvinist preacher who many consider America's pioneer theologian and metaphysicist.
        Last month the Society of Christian Ethics, at its annual meeting in Durham, N.C., paid tribute to Dr. Ramsey, whose manuscripts are being deposited in the Duke Divinity Library.
        Dr. Ramsey is survived by his wife, the former Effie Register; a sister, Lucile Moore of Chico, Calif.; a brother, Eugene Ramsey of Tampa, Fla.; three daughters, Marcia Wood, of Princeton; Jennifer Dunsmore, of San Diego, and Janet Ramsey, of Weed, Calif., and five grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held in April.
      