
       Franco Scalamandre, a co-founder of Scalamandre Inc., one of the nation's most prestigious manufacturers and distributors of decorative textiles, trimmings, carpeting and wall coverings, died Tuesday at his home in Plandome Manor, L.I., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.  Mr. Scalamandre, a leader in historical textile reproductions, developed his interest in restoration projects for more than half a century.
        Franco Scalamandre, a co-founder of Scalamandre Inc., one of the nation's most prestigious manufacturers and distributors of decorative textiles, trimmings, carpeting and wall coverings, died Tuesday at his home in Plandome Manor, L.I., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.  Mr. Scalamandre, a leader in historical textile reproductions, developed his interest in restoration projects for more than half a century.
        Scalamandre textiles have been used in more than 1,000 historical restorations including the White House and William Randolph Hearst's castle in San Simeon, Calif.
        Mr. Scalamandre was born in Naples on April 15, 1898, to Giuseppe Scalamandre and Maria Teresa Ambrosina Scalamandre. His father was a silk broker and textile importer in Calabria.
        Mr. Scalamandre came to the United States in 1924, a year after obtaining a doctorate in engineering from the Royal Polytechnic School of Naples. In 1925 he went to work at the Westinghouse Electric Company in Newark as a draftsman. A year later, Mr. Scalamandre taught architectural drawing at the E. A. Seeley School of Decoration in Paterson, N.J. Presented Traveling Exhibits
        In 1929, Mr. Scalamandre married Flora Baranzelli, an artist and designer, with whom he founded Scalamandre Silks the same year. Mrs. Scalamandre died in October 1987.
        By 1930, Mr. Scalamandre was already involved in the research and reproduction of historical fabrics from museum collections and old documents.
        From 1936 to the late 1960's, the Scalamandre Museum of Textiles, based in the company's New York showroom, presented exhibits on historical documents and textiles that traveled to museums and schools across the country. Mr. Scalamandres intent was for people to be able to experience historical fabrics first hand.
        Among Mr. Scalamandres many awards are the Colonial Dames Award for Americanism, the Gordon Gray Award for Achievement in Preservation from the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the American Society of Interior Designers Thomas Jefferson Award.
        Scalamandre Inc. does over $30 million worth of business annually, dealing in natural fibers such as silks, wools and cottons. Its 12 showrooms in the United States cater to interior design professionals.
        Mr. Scalamandre's daughter, Adriana Scalamandre Bitter, who has been involved with the company since she was a child accompanying her father on his restoration projects, was made president of the company in 1987. At that time, her husband, Edwin Bitter, became chief executive officer. Their children, Ward, Robert, Mark and Tammi, are all vice-presidents of the company.
        Mr. Scalamandre is also survived by a son, Gino, three other grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held March 12 at 11 A.M. at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Massapequa, L.I.
        Correction:  March 5, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      