
       J. Saunders Redding, a historian who is believed to have been the first black to teach at an Ivy League institution, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Ithaca, N. Y. He was 81 years old.
        J. Saunders Redding, a historian who is believed to have been the first black to teach at an Ivy League institution, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Ithaca, N. Y. He was 81 years old.
        In 1949, when Mr. Redding arrived at his alma mater, Brown University, as a visiting professor, he became the first black Ivy League faculty member, according to Henry Louis Gates Jr. Mr. Gates is Cornell's W. E. B. Dubois Professor of Literature. In 1970, Mr. Redding became the first black professor in Cornell University's College of Arts and Sciences. He retired in 1975.
        During several decades of college teaching, he also worked at the Hampton (Va.) Institute, Southern University in Baton Rouge, La., and Morehouse College in Atlanta. Member of Haverford Group
        In the 1970's, Mr. Redding was a member of the Haverford Group, an informal circle of influential blacks who met frequently to discuss ways of steering young people away from racial isolation. The group included Kenneth B. Clark, the psychologist; Robert C. Weaver, a former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; William Hastie, the first black Federal judge, and John Hope Franklin, the historian.
        Mr. Redding and other Haverford Group members also worked at the Joint Center for Political Studies in Washington, where they helped develop political strategies for coping with racism.
        Mr. Redding wrote several books, including ''To Make a Poet Black'' (1939); his autobiography, ''No Day of Triumph'' (1944); ''Stranger and Alone'' (1950); ''They Came in Chains'' (1950); ''An American in India'' (1954), and ''Cavalcade'' (1970), an anthology of Afro-American literature he edited in collaboration with A. P. Davis.
        Mr. Redding was born in Wilmington, Del. His parents were graduates of Howard University. While he and his older brother and sister were washing dishes, his mother would read aloud selections from Hans Christian Andersen, Paul Laurence Dunbar, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Shakespeare and a compilation of great speeches called the ''World's Famous Orations.''
        Mr. Redding is survived by his wife, Esther; two sons, Conway H., of San Diego and Lewis A. 2d, of Boston; a brother, Louis L., of Wilmington, and a sister, C. Gwendolyn Redding, also of Wilmington.
      