
       William L. Marbury, a prominent Maryland lawyer who represented his boyhood friend, Alger Hiss, in the early stages of Mr. Hiss's libel suit against Whittaker Chambers, died Saturday after a heart attack in his Baltimore home. He was 86 years old.
        William L. Marbury, a prominent Maryland lawyer who represented his boyhood friend, Alger Hiss, in the early stages of Mr. Hiss's libel suit against Whittaker Chambers, died Saturday after a heart attack in his Baltimore home. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Marbury, who graduated from the Harvard Law School in 1924 and served on the school's Law Review, was one of the organizers of Maryland's Legal Aid Bureau, which offered legal services to the poor.
        Mr. Marbury also was an original member of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, created at the request of President Kennedy to provide legal represenation in civil rights cases. Medal of Merit
        In 1942, Mr. Marbury became chief legal adviser to the War Department in matters relating to procurement for the Army Air Corps. After the war, President Truman awarded Mr. Marbury the Presidential Medal for Merit, the highest award then given to civilians for distinguished national service.
        In 1948, Mr. Marbury was elected by the Board of Overseers of Harvard as one of five fellows of the college who, with the president and treasurer, make up the Harvard Corporation. He served in that post for 22 years.
        Also in 1948, Mr. Marbury represented Mr. Hiss in his libel action against Mr. Chambers, who had accused Mr. Hiss, a former State Department official, of being a member of the Communist Party ''apparatus'' in Washington in the 1930's.
        The libel suit never went to court, however, because in 1950 Mr. Hiss was convicted of perjury by a Federal jury in a celebrated Cold War-era trial in which he was accused of lying about his associations with Communists. Mr. Hiss continues to maintain his innocence.
        Mr. Marbury is survived by his wife, Natalie; a son, Luke Marbury, a Baltimore lawyer; two daughters, Anne M. Wyatt-Brown, of Gainsville, Fla. and Susan M. Briscoe, of Baltimore, and a stepson, Charles Yandes Wheeler of Baltimore.
        WILLIAM L. MARBURY DEAD AT 86
      