
       Marvin Felix Camillo, the founder and director of the Family, a theater group composed primarily of former prison inmates, died last Saturday in La Rochelle, France, where he had been hospitalized since being injured in an automobile accident this month. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Marvin Felix Camillo, the founder and director of the Family, a theater group composed primarily of former prison inmates, died last Saturday in La Rochelle, France, where he had been hospitalized since being injured in an automobile accident this month. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Camillo, who was born in Newark, was working for the Westchester Arts Council when he began to teach theater workshops at the Bedford Hills state prison in 1972. The resulting company developed into a professional theater that taught and performed in prisons, drug rehabilitation centers and homes for unwed mothers along with conventional theaters, serving as a training ground as well as a road to rehabilitation for many former inmates and former addicts. Most of the company's members were blacks and Hispanic people from inner-city areas, like Mr. Camillo himself, whose mother was black and whose father, a boxer, was Mexican.
        Mr. Camillo, who discovered the playwriting talents of Miguel Pinero while teaching a workshop at Sing Sing, won an Obie for his staging of Mr. Pinero's drama ''Short Eyes,'' which began at the Riverside Church, moved to the Public Theater and went on to Lincoln Center's Vivian Beaumont Theater, later touring all over the world.
        The Family also expanded its reach, and at the time of his death Mr. Camillo headed three different companies: the Family of New York, which was based in Manhattan; the Family of New Jersey, based in Newark, and a French company in La Rochelle.
        Mr. Camillo, who was divorced, is survived by two sisters, Rosita Holiday, of Maplewood, N.J., and Carrie Tankard, of Oak Bluffs, Mass.; two brothers, Alvin, of Orange, N.J., and Norman, of Vineyard Haven, Mass.; two sons, Ramon, of Belleville, N.J., and Marvin Jr., of Manhattan; a granddaughter, and three stepchildren.
        The funeral will be at 9 A.M. Monday at Whighman Funeral Home in Newark. There will be a memorial service at 6 P.M. Monday at the Public Theater.
      