
       David R. Bradley, chairman of the St. Joseph News-Press and Gazette Company in Missouri, died Sunday of complications after heart surgery at St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 70 years old and lived in St. Joseph.
        David R. Bradley, chairman of the St. Joseph News-Press and Gazette Company in Missouri, died Sunday of complications after heart surgery at St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 70 years old and lived in St. Joseph.
        Mr. Bradley, the second generation of his family to head the morning Gazette and afternoon News-Press, was publisher of the daily newspapers from 1956 to 1981. His father, Henry D. Bradley, was publisher from 1939 to 1956. The Gazette was founded in 1845 and The News-Press in 1879.
        On Sundays, the morning and evening papers are combined into The St. Joseph News-Press/Gazette with a reported circulation in 1986 of more than 48,500. The company also owns several television stations and the St. Joseph Cablevision Company.
        In 1981, David Bradley turned over the publisher's post to his son, Henry H. Bradley, who is also a vice president of the company. Another son, David R. Bradley Jr., is president of the company and editor of the newspapers. Honored by University
        In 1982, the senior David Bradley was honored by the University of Missouri at Columbia, which cited him for his ''continuing service to the field of journalism.''
        Mr. Bradley was a former first vice chairman and member of the board of The Associated Press. He also was a member of the American Newspaper Publishers Association and a director of its advertising bureau.
        Other news organizations with which he was associated included the American Society of Newspaper Editors, the Inter-American Press Association and the International Press Institute.
        Mr. Bradley, who was born Aug. 4, 1917, in Toledo, Ohio, earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Wisconsin in 1939. After service in the Army Air Corps in World War II, which he entered as a private and left, in 1946, as a first lieutenant, he joined the St. Joseph newspapers.
        He worked as national advertising manager and production manager of the newspapers as well as secretary-treasurer of the company before being named publisher.
        In addition to his sons, he is survived by his wife, the former Shirley Wyeth; two daughters, Margaret Tylinski of St. Joseph and Natalie Campbell of New Haven, and 11 grandchildren.
      