
       The Rev. Benjamin Minifie, rector of Grace Church from 1960 until 1975 and an outspoken Protestant Episcopal cleric on many public issues, died of heart failure Tuesday at his retirement home in Newport, R.I. He was 77 years old.
        The Rev. Benjamin Minifie, rector of Grace Church from 1960 until 1975 and an outspoken Protestant Episcopal cleric on many public issues, died of heart failure Tuesday at his retirement home in Newport, R.I. He was 77 years old.
        From the pulpit and other rostrums, Mr. Minifie spoke out frequently on such matters as civil rights, divorce reform, the death penalty and the ecumenical movement, generally taking positions regarded as liberal. Eight months after he was called to Grace Church, on Broadway at 10th Street in Greenwich Village, he abolished a pew-rental system that had persisted from the founding of the church in 1808.
        ''It is my feeling that, because this is God's house, any person sould be free to enter it and sit wherever he might choose,'' he said. ''He should never be given the impression that certain pews are closed to him, that he is not welcome in this one or that, that he might be intruding were he to enter the wrong one.'' A Preservation Dispute
        Mr. Minifie was also at the center of a dispute over a plan to tear down two historic Greek Revival houses adjacent to the church and replace them with facilities for the church school. After strenuous objections by preservationists, the church agreed to save the facades of the two houses and limit renovation to the interiors.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Minifie was a graduate of Lehigh University and the General Theological Seminary. Before becoming rector of Grace Church he served for five years as dean of the Cathedral Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Pa. Before that he was rector of Grace Church in South Orange, N.J., for five years and also held church posts in Massachusets and Texas.
        After his formal retirement in 1975, Mr. Minifie remained active in church affairs. He accepted calls to serve as interim pastor at St. Luke's Church in Darien, Conn.; St. Stephen's in Ridgefield, Conn.; the Church of the Holy Spirit in Lake Forest, Ill., St. Paul's in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and Christ Church in Hudson, Ohio.
        Mr. Minifie is survived by his wife, the former Frances Turner Jackson; a daughter, Katharine, of Victoria, Australia; five sons, the Rev. Canon Charles, of Washington, the Rev. Thomas, of Seattle, Edward, of Lee, Mass., William, of Manhattan, and Jonathan, of Groton, Mass., and eight grandchildren.
        A funeral is to be held Saturday at 2 P.M. at Emmanuel Episcopal Church in Newport.
      