
       Allen Churchill, a social historian who wrote sprightly books on subjects ranging from the bohemian culture of Greenwich Village to the unsolved disappearances of several famous missing persons, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Allen Churchill, a social historian who wrote sprightly books on subjects ranging from the bohemian culture of Greenwich Village to the unsolved disappearances of several famous missing persons, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Churchill, the author of 17 books, began his writing career in 1935 with the sale of an article to the American Mercury magazine. He later worked as an editor for such publications as Stage, Town and Country and Yank, the latter while serving in World War II.
        But Mr. Churchill made his mark as the author of popular nonfiction, including ''Park Row: Turn of the Century Newspaper Days,'' ''The Improper Bohemians: A Recreation of Greenwich Village in Its Heyday'' and ''They Never Came Back.''
        Many of Mr. Churchill's books revived the haunts and high jinks of New York City in the early decades of the 20th century. ''The Improper Bohemians,'' for instance, chronicled a vibrant neighborhood from 1912 to 1930. The book recaptures a time when Mabel Dodge presided over her salon and Eugene O'Neill saw his early plays performed for the summer crowds at the Provincetown Theater, a time when the so-called little magazines flourished and artists and writers were the dashing celebrities of the day. Newspaper Nostalgia
        Mr. Churchill mourned those days in a 1970 interview with Saturday Review magazine. ''Nowadays, the ones who have the glamour are the rock musicians,'' he said.
        Mr. Churchill was similarly nostalgic in ''Park Row,'' an account of New York journalism in an era when more than a dozen dailies were clustered on a downtown block that rivaled London's Fleet Street. At the centerpiece of the book is the struggle between two titans of yellow journalism, Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst, who presided over city rooms with spittoons in the corners, flasks in the desk drawers and a persistent air of bedlam in the corridors.
        The same era is the subject of ''The Year the World Went Mad,'' a breathless account of 1927, which many consider the frothiest year of a frothy decade - a year in which Charles A. Lindbergh flew the Atlantic, Sacco and Vanzetti were executed and Babe Ruth hit 60 home runs.
        ''They Never Came Back'' tells the stories of several famous missing persons. Included are Dorothy Arnold, a society girl last seen strolling Fifth Avenue in 1910; Ambrose Bierce, a writer who left for Mexico in 1913, ostensibly to join forces with Pancho Villa, and Judge Crater, a State Supreme Court Justice who vanished in 1930 and whose name became synonymous with mysterious disappearances.
        Prolific until recent years when friends said he suffered from ''writer's block,'' Mr. Churchill's ouevre also includes book reviews and letters to the editor on subjects ranging from the onerous task of serving on a jury, the quality of certain theatrical entertainments and political affairs of the day.
        In this last category is a tart 1971 letter to The New York Times about the ''widespread rejoicing'' over President Nixon's upcoming trip to China. ''It seems to me,'' Mr. Churchill wrote, ''that the President, the country, the city and even the world might be better off if he took a trip to Bedford-Stuyvesant instead.''
        Isabella Taves, a longtime friend of Mr. Churchill's and a fellow writer, yesterday characterized him as a man who engendered both fierce loyalty and fierce antipathy. ''He had a very sharp tongue and a very kind heart, which sometime go together,'' she said.
        Mr. Churchill is survived by a cousin, Georgina Cummings of Manhattan.
      