
       Glenn Cunningham, a former world-record holder in the mile run who in 1979 was named the greatest track performer in the history of Madison Square Garden, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, in Menifee, Ark. He was 78 years old. According to Robert Mitchell, the Conway County Coroner, Mr.
        Glenn Cunningham, a former world-record holder in the mile run who in 1979 was named the greatest track performer in the history of Madison Square Garden, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, in Menifee, Ark. He was 78 years old. According to Robert Mitchell, the Conway County Coroner, Mr. Cunningham was found dead in his pickup truck near his farm for exotic animals.
        That Mr. Cunningham could win 21 of 31 mile races on the indoor track at the Garden during his prime in the 1930's was impressive. More significantly, he did it after suffering life-threatening burns on both legs as a 7-year-old when a stove in a school classroom in Everetts, Kan., exploded, killing his older brother Floyd. Long Recuperation
        After being told there was a strong possibility he would never walk again, he spent seven months in bed, and then received daily massages from his mother, who kneaded his damaged muscles and sped his way to walking, and then running.
        In high school, he played baseball and football and boxed and wrestled. At 13, he entered his first high school mile race and won easily. Using running as therapy for the burn injuries, he found that middle distances suited him.
        At a sophomore at the University of Kansas, Mr. Cunningham set an American record for the mile with a time of 4 minutes 11.1 seconds. He was selected as a member of the United States team for the 1932 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and finished fourth in the 1,500-meter run. In 1933 he won the Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete.
        In the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, he bettered the previous record for the 1,500-meter run, but finished second to John Lovelock of New Zealand, whose time was 3:47.8. World Mark at Princeton
        By that time, Mr. Cunningham was in his prime. On June 16, 1934, he set a world record for the mile at Palmer Stadium in Princeton, N.J., covering the distance in 4:06.7. His fastest indoor time for the mile was 4:04.4 at Dartmouth College in 1938, but it was not accepted as a record because there had been a pacing runner aiding him. The current records for the mile are 3:46.32 outdoors and 3:49.78 indoors.
        In his competitions at Madison Square Garden, Mr. Cunningham set six world records in the mile and the 1,500 meters and another at 1,000 yards. Perhaps the oddest of his triumphs was the ''typographical error mile'' of 1936 when he was timed at 4:46.8 because of the strategically slow race run by Gene Venzke and Joe Mangan. Disbelievers thought the listed winning time was a mistake.
        Mr. Cunningham earned a bachelor's degree from Kansas, a master's degree from the University of Iowa in 1936 and two years later earned a doctorate in physical education from New York University. He later held posts in athletics and physical education at Cornell College in Iowa. Cared for Children
        After serving in the Navy during World War II, Mr. Cunningham and his wife, Ruth, settled on an 840-acre ranch near Wichita, Kan., where he tended exotic wild animals and took in troubled and underprivileged children.
        ''We have worked 18 hours a day, seven days a week, to rehabilitate 9,000 wayward or orphaned youths who passed through our care,'' he said a few years ago. The Cunninghams had 12 children of their own.
        Mr. Cunningham last appeared publicly on Feb. 26 at Madison Square Garden during the Mobil/USA Indoor national championships. As part of the 100th anniversary celebration of the indoor competition, former champions appeared in a relay race. Mr. Cunningham, a four-time winner of the indoor mile, passed the baton to 95-year-old Abel Kiviat, a former Olympic runner, evoking an ovation.
      