
       Hans A. Panofsky, an atmospheric scientist who taught at Pennsylvania State University for 30 years and who was credited with several advances in the study of meteorology, died of a cerebral hemorrhage after a heart attack on Feb. 28 in San Diego, where he lived. He was 70 years old.
        Hans A. Panofsky, an atmospheric scientist who taught at Pennsylvania State University for 30 years and who was credited with several advances in the study of meteorology, died of a cerebral hemorrhage after a heart attack on Feb. 28 in San Diego, where he lived. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. Panofsky was one of the first meteorologists to study the structure of the lowest 300 feet of atmosphere for such purposes as learning how pollutants could be controlled. He later developed theories of wind flow over complex terrrain and was instrumental in bringing about understanding of the air turbulence that can lead to airplane crashes.
        Dr. Panofsky also contributed to such meteorological and astronomical topics as the atmospheric circulation of Jupiter, sunspots, ozone, climatic change and the interpretatrion of satellite data.
        Born in Kassel, Germany, he came to the United States in 1934 when his father, an art historian, accepted joint appointments at Princeton and New York Universities. He received a bachelor's degree from Princeton and a doctorate in astronomy from the University of California at Berkeley.
        After teaching at Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa., and at New York University, he joined the Penn State faculty in 1952 and in 1966 was named Evan Pugh Professor of atomospheric sciences. He retired in 1982 but continued to teach, most recently at the University of California at San Diego.
        A Fellow of the American Meteorological Society, he received the society's Meisinger Award in 1965 for his work in aerology and meteorology and the Carl-Gustaf Rossby Research Medal in 1976 for his contributions to understanding air turbulence.
        Surviving are his wife, Margaret Ann Riker Kassel; two daughters, Ruth Morgan-Jones and Anne Panofsky; a brother, Wolfgang Panofsky, director emeritus of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Laboratory of Palo Alto, Calif., and by two grandchildren.
      