
       Irving Younger, a leading scholar on trial techniques, died of pancreatic cancer Sunday at the University of Minnesota Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 55 years old.
        Irving Younger, a leading scholar on trial techniques, died of pancreatic cancer Sunday at the University of Minnesota Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 55 years old.
        In his 30-year career, Mr. Younger was a Federal prosecutor, judge, professor, trial lawyer and author. Thousands of law students have seen or heard him in some of the more than 10,000 video and audio tapes he made on evidence, trial practice and civil procedure.
        The videotapes typically show a lawyer who partly resembled a Shakespearean actor and partly a stand-up comic: in a grainy voice, with his arms flailing, and his fingers jabbing the air, Mr. Younger exhorted would-be lawyers about proper courtroom etiquette and effective advocacy, spicing the task with compelling trial tales and humorous anecdotes. Known for Wit and Theatrics
        Mr. Younger had a feeling for the well-turned phrase. While a civil court judge in New York, for instance, he ruled that the chastity of a tenant was not essential to the preservation of her lease. Addressing the issue of any immorality of the defendant - accused of having sex with a man not her husband - he ruled in the 1971 case: ''One should say little because there is so much to say.''
        But Mr. Younger was best known for his sharp wit and theatrics in the courtroom and had the rare forensic ability to destroy an opponent's witness with a few quick questions.
        Representing The Washington Post after it had been sued for libel by the president of the Mobil Oil Corporation, William P. Tavoulareas, Mr. Younger delivered a cross-examination of a trucking executive called to the stand by the oil executive's lawyers that consisted of only four questions:
        Q: Mr Hoffman, did you just get into Washington just about an hour ago?
        A: About an hour and a half, I would think.
        Q: Did you come up from Florida?
        A: No, I did not.
        Q: Where did you come from?
        A: Indianapolis.
        Q: How did you get from Indianapolis to Washington?
        A: On the Mobil corporate jet.
        ''It was a hand grenade'' in the courtroom, Mr. Younger later recalled, the kind of moment a trial lawyer savors for the rest of his life. Distinguished Trial Lawyer
        Nonetheless, the jury in 1982 awarded $2.05 million in damages to Mr. Tavoulareas, although the decision was reversed on appeal.
        Mr. Younger also represented The National Enquirer and was chief counsel in an action resulting from the collapse of the skywalk in a Kansas City Hyatt hotel. He was retained by Frank Lloyd, the art dealer and owner of the Marlborough Gallery, who was convicted of tampering with evidence in the Mark Rothko trial.
        Mr. Younger was born Irving Yoskowitz in Manhattan on Nov. 30, 1932. graduated from Harvard in 1953, and from the New York University School of law in 1958.
        Two years later he was appointed an Assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan. In 1962, Mr. Younger started a Manhattan law firm with his wife, Judith, Younger & Younger. He left a full-time practice in 1965 to teach at N.Y.U. and in 1968 was elected a judge in the Civil Court in New York City.
        Mr. Younger stepped down from the bench in 1974 to become the Samuel S. Liebowitz professor of trial techniques at Cornell University. He later had teaching stints at Columbia, Harvard and Georgetown. In 1981 he was named a partner at the Washington firm of Williams & Connelly and left three years later to become the Marvin J. Sonosky professor of law at the University of Minnesota.
        He was the author of many articles on trial techniques and a monthly column on persuasive writing for the American Bar Association Journal. His books include The Art of Cross-Examination, written in 1976, and Principles of Evidence, which he wrote with Michael Goldsmith in 1984.
        Besides his wife, he leaves two daughters, Abigail M. Younger of Minneapolis and Rebecca Fanany of Honolulu; his mother, Jean Yoskowitz, of DelRay Beach, Fla.; a sister, Sondra Helfand of Berkeley Heights, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      