
       Milton A. Caniff, the creator of the comic strips ''Terry and the Pirates'' and ''Steve Canyon,'' died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Milton A. Caniff, the creator of the comic strips ''Terry and the Pirates'' and ''Steve Canyon,'' died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Caniff began his cartooning career by drawing ''Dickie Dare'' and ''The Gay Thirties'' for The Associated Press. But it was ''Terry and the Pirates,'' which he started in 1934 for The Chicago Tribune-New York Daily News Syndicate that earned him a following of 30 million readers.
        The strip was packed with comedy, sex and suspense and set in the Orient, where his main characters, Terry Lee and Jane Allen, matched wits with the Dragon Lady and other evil-doers.
        By 1946, Mr. Caniff was making $75,000 a year and ''Terry and the Pirates'' was appearing in more than 300 newspapers. However, Mr. Caniff was unhappy that he did not own the strip, and was lured away by Marshall Field, owner of the Chicago Sun Syndicate, which paid him $2,000 a week. It also gave him ownership of ''Steve Canyon,'' a new comic strip about an Air Force colonel he had created. 'Actors Don't Eat'
        In the never-never world of the funny papers, the switch for Mr. Caniff was the news of the year. ''Terry and the Pirates,'' however, continued to be drawn by George Wunder until the strip ended in 1973.
        Mr. Caniff was born Feb. 28, 1907, in Hillsboro, Ohio, and by kindergarten was drawing recognizable human figures on scrap paper brough home by his father, a printer.
        His first job was drawing cartoons for the Boy Scout page in The Dayton Journal-Herald when he was 13. He also worked for The Columbus Dispatch while a student at Ohio State University, where he earned a degree in fine arts.
        After a brief try at an acting career, Mr. Caniff returned to drawing cartoons. He once recalled that the editor of The Columbus Dispatch, William Ireland, told him, ''Stick to your inkpots, kid, actors don't eat regularly.''
        One of his most memorable cartoon characters was the Dragon Lady, a seductive and resourceful Chinese pirate captain who, Mr. Caniff said, was inspired by the actress Joan Crawford. Another favorite was Burma, a blond chorus girl with a heart of gold. Contributed to Charity
        Mr. Caniff's routine involved arriving at his studio late in the afternoon. He spent the remaining daylight hours writing with his right hand and drawing and drinking coffee with his left.
        Many of his strips had touches of autobiography. Friends often served as prototypes for characters. Recently, his strip for several weeks was based on his courtship of his wife, Esther Parsons, at Stivers High School in Dayton. They were married in 1930. He often returned to Dayton, and contributed drawings to charitable causes. Much of his work is preserved in the library of the School of Journalism at Ohio State. He received three honorary doctorates, including one from the Universty of Dayton, and numerous other awards. He was also a founder of the National Cartoonists Society.
        In 1987, he was made the first honorary member of the Eighth Air Force Historical Society in recognition for the ''Male Call'' strip, featuring a leggy pinup named Lace, that he did for Stars and Stripes during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife.
      