
       Gen. Paul Lamar Freeman Jr., an infantry commander in World War II and the Korean War, died of a heart ailment Sunday at Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        Gen. Paul Lamar Freeman Jr., an infantry commander in World War II and the Korean War, died of a heart ailment Sunday at Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        In July 1950, General Freeman, who was then a colonel commanding the the 23d Infantry Regiment of the Second Division in Korea, participated in the defense of the Pusan Perimeter. After China's intervention in November 1950 the regiment fought as the rear guard at Kunuri in the Eighth Army's retreat.
        In February 1951 Colonel Freeman's regiment, while attacking in the central part of the Korean front, held off five Chinese divisions after it was cut off for three days before being relieved. Colonel Freeman, who was wounded in the battle, was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for this action.
        Among his other decorations were two Silver Stars, two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart.
        He was born in the Philippines, the son of an Army doctor, and spent his youth at various military posts. He was graduated from the United State Military Acadamy at West Point in 1929, and served two tours of duty in China in the 1930's. Aide to General Stilwell
        When the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, he was was assistant military attache in Chungking, China. He later served as assistant chief of staff to Gen. Joseph Stilwell in the China-Burma-India theater.
        In 1943 General Freeman returned to the United States to help plan the final assault on Japan, and in 1944 he participated in the Sixth Army's campaigns in the Philippines.
        After the Korean War General Freeman held several high command posts, including commander in chief of United States Army forces in Europe and commanding general of the Continental Army Command.
        Besides his combat decorations General Freeman was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, the nation's highest peacetime military award, for his service in Europe. He was also awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Croix de Guerre, and held decorations from Brazil, Spain and West Germany.
        He was promoted to full general in 1962. After retiring from the Army in 1967 he joined Litton Industries as vice president for operations planning in its Melonics division.
        General Freeman, who lived in Carmel, Calif., is survived by his wife, the former Mary Anne Fishburn; a daughter, Anne Sewell McLoud of Richmond, and a sister, Helen Pogue of Clearwater, Fla.
      