
       Representative Melvin Price, an Illinois Democrat who was one of the longest serving members of the House, died of cancer yesterday, hours after entering a Maryland hospital complaining of pain. He was 83 years old.
        Representative Melvin Price, an Illinois Democrat who was one of the longest serving members of the House, died of cancer yesterday, hours after entering a Maryland hospital complaining of pain. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Price, who had been ill for some time with arthritis and diabetes, learned in the last month that he had pancreatic cancer, said his administrative assistant, Mike Mansfield.
        The Congressman entered Malcolm Grove Hospital at Andrews Air Force Base yesterday morning and died several hours later, Mr. Mansfield said. First Elected in 1944
        Mr. Price, the second most senior House member, behind Representative Jamie L. Whitten, the 24-term Democrat from Mississippi, was first elected to Congress in 1944, while still on active duty with the Army.
        In 1975 he assumed the powerful chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee, which oversees military policies, after junior lawmakers rebelled against Representative F. Edward Hebert, a Louisiana Democrat whom they described as autocratic, and they selected Mr. Price.
        But in 1985, facing criticism that he was physically incapable of handling such a demanding job, Mr. Price was ousted from the chairman's post.
        House Democrats, defying their leaders, chose in his place Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin, a relatively junior member of the committee who had been one of the Pentagon's sharpest critics. Health Deteriorates
        Mr. Price had grown frail and infirm by that time, which affected his ability to walk, and the committee was often run by a colleague.
        In contrast, Mr. Aspin, elected to Congress in 1970, campaigned among his collegues as a younger and more effective leader.
        It was one of few times that an incumbent chairman had been deposed by the House.
        During his tenure, Mr. Price, who considered himself a staunch supporter of the Reagan Administration's requests for increased military spending, presided over the Pentagon's drive to stockpile a vast array of hardware, including the MX missile, the B-1 bomber and a nuclear aircraft carrier.
        ''Mel Price was a man of the people who kept a common touch after reaching great heights,'' Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, told The Associated Press. 'He moved from being an Army corporal to contributing in a major way to the nation's defense.''
        Prior to becoming chairman of the Armed Services Committee, he was chairman of the House ethics committee after it was created in 1967 in the aftermath of the removal from a House committee of Adam Clayton Powell of Harlem after he was accused of using Government funds for personal use. Years as Sportswriter
        Born in East St. Louis in 1905, Mr. Price for several years was a sportswriter and a newspaper correspondent for newspapers in St. Louis and East St. Louis.
        After being elected, he was re-elected to each succeeding Congress.
        He faced one of his strongest challenges in 1986 but survived a four-way primary battle to win his party's nomination and defeated Robert Gaffner, a Republican from Greenville.
        However, he won by only 943 votes, the smallest margin of victory in his Congressional career.
        The House will consider an amendment next week to its version of a Pentagon spending bill to name a new Trident submarine for Mr. Price, a strong advocate of a nuclear Navy.
        Mr. Price was the third senior member of Congress to die this year. The others were Representative Dan Daniel, Democrat of Virginia, and Representative James J. Howard, Democrat of New Jersey.
        Mr. Price is survived by his wife, Geraldine, and a son, Dr. William Price of Colorado Springs.
      