
       John S. Radosta, who spent 38 years with The New York Times as a photo editor and reporter, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. Mr. Radosta, who retired from The Times in 1983, was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John S. Radosta, who spent 38 years with The New York Times as a photo editor and reporter, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. Mr. Radosta, who retired from The Times in 1983, was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Radosta saw his profession as an honorable alternative to work, but although his early career had its moments, it was not until he was 53 that the strategy really paid off.
        In 1967, after 13 years as an innovative and successful picture editor at The Times, he was granted a transfer to the sports department and suddenly his business and personal lives were one. He covered many sports, including hockey and tennis, but his specialties were auto racing and golf, which, not coincidentally, were among his great passions. Covered International Racing
        A sports car buff, he owned both a Porsche and a Mercedes-Benz and attended three race-driving schools, but it was as a reporter that he became a member of the international racing circuit.
        Mr. Radosta, who wrote a semiweekly column, About Motor Sports, from 1967 to 1973, covered road races in North America, Europe and New Zealand; street races in Macao and Belgrade; high-speed rallies in East Africa and India and oval races throughout the United States.
        He also wrote the ''The New York Times Guide to Auto Racing,'' which was published in 1971, and contributed articles on the sport to ''The Oxford Companion to World Sports and Games.''
        A dedicated golfer who rarely broke 100, Mr. Radosta nevertheless became a fixture on the PGA Tour beginning in 1974. Among other events, he covered 10 United States Opens, eight British Opens and seven Ryder Cup matches. He even managed a hole-in-one at the famed Winged Foot course.
        John Stephen Radosta was born in Brooklyn and began his newspaper career at the age of 15 in 1929, when he became the Brooklyn Technical High School correspondent for a neighborhood newspaper. At New York University he edited the school paper and served as campus correspondent for The Herald Tribune, which he joined as a staffer after graduation. With Stars and Stripes
        During World War II he worked for the Army newspaper Stars and Stripes, serving as managing editor of six editions and covering the invasion of southern France in August 1944 from a tail-gunner's position in a B-25 bomber. After the war he got a pilot's license and owned his own plane.
        He came to The Times on the last day of 1945, at first as a writer for The Week in Review section,later in a variety of editorial positions. He was named the paper's picture editor in 1954 and introduced the first of a number of changes in the operation by making The Times the first New York City newspaper to switch to 35-millimeter cameras. He also added photographers, sought to brighten the paper's use of photographs and began the practice of equipping foreign correspondents with cameras.
        By the time he joined the sports staff in 1967 he had become a recognized authority on photojournalism and a widely sought lecturer on the subject.
        As a sportswriter, Mr. Radosta, natty, meticulously groomed and favoring carefully pressed, conservative blue blazers, was regarded by colleagues as the best-dressed man who ever covered a professional hockey game.
        After his formal retirement in 1983, Mr. Radosta became a freelance travel and golf writer.
        Mr. Radosta's first wife, the former Vivian Campbell, to whom he was married for 40 years, died in 1978. He is surived by his second wife, the former Joan Pierce; a brother, Giacomo P. Radosta of Citrus Heights, Calif., and two sisters, Margaret Abbruzzese and Theresa Vitale, both of Freeport, L.I.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete yesterday.
      