
       Lanny Ross, a singer, actor and radio personality, died of heart failure at Lenox Hill Hospital yesterday. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Lanny Ross, a singer, actor and radio personality, died of heart failure at Lenox Hill Hospital yesterday. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The star of several radio programs from the early 1930's through the mid-50's - among them, ''Show Boat,'' ''Troubador of the Moon,'' ''The Swift Show'' and ''The Lanny Ross Show'' -Mr. Ross began his performing career while a college student and used the money he made from his earliest radio performances to put himself through law school.
        Lancelot Patrick Ross was born in Seattle on Jan. 19, 1906, a son of a Shakespearean actor, Douglas Ross, and a concert pianist, Winifred Williams Ross. He moved to New York with his parents around 1920, and joined the choir at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. He Ran and Sang at Yale
        Mr. Ross entered Yale University in 1924, and quickly distinguished himself both as a member of its track team (he won championship matches in 1924 and 1927) and as a tenor soloist in the Yale Glee Club. In 1928, as a member of the Yale Glee Club's Jeddo Highlanders, he began singing on network radio broadcasts for NBC.
        After his graduation from Yale he enrolled in the Columbia University Law School, but he continued singing. He made his solo radio debut on Christmas Day in 1928. From then on, his radio work continued steadily. When he completed his law degree in 1931, NBC offered him a radio show of his own, at a salary five times greater than that offered by a law firm that was also courting him.
        Mr. Ross never did practice law. Instead, he became the star of the ''Show Boat'' radio series, and undertook graduate studies at Juilliard. Having established himself as a radio personality and a concert singer - his version of ''Moonlight and Roses'' was immensely popular and eventually became his signature theme - Mr. Ross became interested in acting. In 1934 he signed a contract with Paramount that yielded three films, ''College Rhythm,'' ''Melody in Spring'' and ''The Lady Objects.'' He also made a Broadway debut, in ''Petticoat Fever,'' in 1936, and later appeared in ''Pursuit of Happiness'' and ''Green Grow the Lilacs.'' 'His Log Cabin Orchestra'
        But radio remained Mr. Ross's principal medium. His first regular program, ''Show Boat,'' ran until 1937, and during that time he was also the star of ''Lanny Ross and His Log Cabin Orchestra.'' Among the other programs with which he was associated were ''Mardi Gras,'' ''Your Hit Parade'' and ''The Lanny Ross Show.''
        Mr. Ross married his manager, Olive White, in 1935. She died in 1984. He is survived by a brother, Winston Ross of Monrose, Pa., and a step-daughter, Barbara Walch of Elizabethton, Tenn. There is to be a memorial service at St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church, on May 13 at 11 A.M.
      