
       Representative Dan Daniel, a 10-term Democratic Congressman from Virginia, died today after suffering a heart attack. He was 73 years old.  Mr. Daniel earlier this week said that poor health would prevent him from seeking re-election.
        Representative Dan Daniel, a 10-term Democratic Congressman from Virginia, died today after suffering a heart attack. He was 73 years old.  Mr. Daniel earlier this week said that poor health would prevent him from seeking re-election.
        He died at about 5:20 P.M. in Charlottesville, where he and his wife, Ruby, had stopped to visit their son while en route from their home in Danville to Washington, D.C., said Frances Price, manager of Mr. Daniel's Danville office. Hospitalized With Chest Pain
        The Congressman was admitted to the University of Virginia Hospital at 1:20 P.M. after complaining of chest pains, said Thomas Doran, a spokesman for the hospital. He suffered a heart attack at about 5 P.M. and was pronounced dead 20 minutes later, Mr. Doran said.
        Mr. Daniel, the dean of Virginia's 10-member Congressional delegation, was hospitalized in March for a malfunctioning heart valve and was hospitalized again in the summer for a check-up related to the heart problem.
        He announced Tuesday that he did not feel he could fully perform his duties in another term in Washington. He said he had rejected suggestions that he try to cut back on his activities or work a lighter schedule.
        ''To do differently than I have done all these years would not be fair to the people I represent and would be inconsistent with my basic work ethic,'' Mr. Daniel. Served Since 1968
        Mr. Daniel was ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee and served on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
        He was first elected in southern Virginia's 5th District in 1968 and won re-election in each succeeding election.
        Mr. Daniel ''frequently described his role as that of a 'participant' in many contemporary developments, rather than one who introduced a great number of bills,'' said his spokeswoman, Terry Hoye.
        Perhaps his greatest accomplishment was passing a bill that set up a separate department in the Defense Department to handle special operations and low-intensity conflicts, Ms. Hoye said.
        Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, said few members of Congress had worked harder than Mr. Daniel on military matters. ''I admired him immensely and will miss the leadership he gave to Virginia for so many years,'' Senator Warner said. Began Career as a Textile Worker
        Mr. Daniel began his career as textile mill worker in 1939 at Dan River Inc. in Danville and had worked his way up to an executive position when he was elected to Virginia's House of Delegates in 1959. He served as a delegate his election to Congress. He was chairman of the Armed Services Committee's subcommittee on readiness and morale and served on the Intelligence Committee's subcommittee on program and budget authorization.
        Mr. Daniel is survived by his wife, Ruby; a son, Jimmie Foxx; and two grandchildren.
      