
       Frederick Douglass Patterson, founder of the United Negro College Fund and president emeritus of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, died yesterday after suffering a heart attack at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Under his leadership, the college fund became the largest independent source of money for the nation's private, historically black colleges and universities, providing for student scholarships, staff salaries, library resources, laboratories and new teaching programs.
        Frederick Douglass Patterson, founder of the United Negro College Fund and president emeritus of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, died yesterday after suffering a heart attack at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Under his leadership, the college fund became the largest independent source of money for the nation's private, historically black colleges and universities, providing for student scholarships, staff salaries, library resources, laboratories and new teaching programs.
        Dr. Donald M. Stewart, president of the College Board, the national association of schools and colleges, described Dr. Patterson as ''a visionary and pioneer in American higher education and in black American higher education.''
        ''He broke new ground for minority students and was always looking ahead into the next decade for new ways to finance education,'' said Dr. Stewart, a former president of Spelman College in Atlanta, a historically black school and member of the United Negro College Fund. 'He Set a Standard'
        ''Dr. Patterson believed that education was the best route for black mobility,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''He set a standard that few of us could meet.''
        Dr. Patterson, who was named after the black journalist and anti-slavery leader Frederick Douglass, was born in Washington on Oct. 10, 1901. Orphaned at the age of 2, he was raised by his elder sister, Wilhelmina, a schoolteacher in Texas.
        He studied at Iowa State College, where he received a doctorate in veterinary medicine in 1923 and a master of science degree in 1927. Five years later he was awarded a second doctorate from Cornell University. He taught in the field of veterinary science for four years at Virginia State College in Petersburg, where he became director of agriculture.
        In 1928 he was called to the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute. Over the next 25 years he raised the institute to new heights of national eminence, serving first as head of the veterinary division, next as director of the School of Agriculture, and from 1935 to 1953 as president. He was the institute's third president, succeeding Dr. Robert R. Moton.
        The Tuskegee Institute was founded in 1881 by Booker T. Washington, who maintained that black students must be trained vocationally. Under his leadership, the institute grew to one of prominence and leadership in the black community. Goals of Institute
        Dr. Patterson said Tuskegee's aim was ''to maintain a realistic approach to life's problems by preparing young people not merely to do a specific job well, but to develop in them the spirit of leadership and resourcefulness.''
        As president of Tuskegee, Dr. Patterson soon learned that the school's continuing leadership role brought letters from other schools asking for advice on how to raise money. In 1943 he wrote a column in The Pittsburgh Courier proposing the creation of a consortium of black colleges that would raise money for their mutual benefit. The following year, the United Negro College Fund was founded, with 27 member colleges serving 12,000 students and with an income of $765,000.
        The fund has grown to 42 members, with aid to 45,000 students and income of $42 million in the fiscal year that ended March 31. The fund's motto is ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste.''
        In the mid-1970's, Dr. Patterson, concerned that small independent colleges could become too dependent on government funds, came up with yet another new idea, the College Endowment Funding Plan, for which he was cited by President Reagan in 1985. The plan seeks funds from private businesses, with gifts encouraged by matching Federal funds.
        Dr. Patterson was again chosen to be honored by the White House in 1987. President Reagan named him, along with the actor Danny Kaye and the composer Meredith Wilson as recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
        Dr. Patterson also served as president and trustee of the Phelps-Stokes Fund. It worked for the improvement of the status of blacks in Africa and the United States, the welfare of the American Indian and the betterment of low-income housing in New York City.
        Dr. Patterson is survived by his wife, Catherine, and a son, Frederick, of New Rochelle.
      