
       Olaf Wieghorst, a Western artist whose work was once displayed in the White House, died of respiratory complications Wednesday at Grossmont Hospital. He was 88 years old.
        Olaf Wieghorst, a Western artist whose work was once displayed in the White House, died of respiratory complications Wednesday at Grossmont Hospital. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Wieghorst, a Danish immigrant, gained worldwide fame for his works. Many of his 3,000 paintings and sculptures are on display at museums throughout the country.
        In 1985, two of his pieces - ''The Navajo Madonna'' and ''Navajo Man'' - were sold for $1 million. ''The Navajo Madonna,'' which depicts an Indian woman on horseback holding her baby, had sold three years earlier for $450,000, then a record price for Western art. Owned by Three Presidents
        Mr. Wieghorst's work has been in the collections of three Presidents -Dwight D. Eisenhower, Gerald R. Ford and Ronald Reagan - and many other prominent Americans, including John Wayne. President Eisenhower displayed a Wieghorst painting on a wall of the Oval Office.
        ''My greatest teacher has been the horse,'' Mr. Wieghorst said in a 1982 interview. ''I couldn't have learned what I did from some teacher in art school. I learned by doing. I paint what I know.''
        Mr. Wieghorst, the son of a Danish photographer, signed on as a seaman on a Danish merchant ship when he was 18 years old. When the vessel arrived at Hoboken, N.J., in 1919, he jumped ship, later joining the United States Army cavalry and gaining his American citizenship. A Cowboy in New Mexico
        Following his discharge, Mr. Wieghorst worked as a cowboy for three years in New Mexico and began sketching horses. He then became a mounted police officer in New York City, where he often patrolled Central Park. He sketched during his free time and started selling his works.
        He retired from the police force in 1944 and moved with his family to El Cajon, about 15 miles east of San Diego, to take up painting full time.
        He is survived by his wife, Mae, and a son, Roy.
      