
       Mark Cecil Iselin Feer, an investment banker, died of complications of intestinal cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59 years old.
        Mark Cecil Iselin Feer, an investment banker, died of complications of intestinal cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Feer, who earned a Ph.D. and a master's degree from Tufts University, was a general partner at Kuhn, Loeb & Company. After the firm merged with Lehman Brothers in 1977, he served as a managing director and later as advising director.
        He was an advisory director at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. And since 1985, he was also a director of Asian Oceanic Securities, a Manhattan investment firm.
        Mr. Feer was a member of Phi Betta Kappa and had served as treasurer of the united chapters of that organization since 1975.
        Before joining Kuhn, Loeb in 1968, Mr. Feer served as deputy assistant secretary for financial policy at the Department of Commerce in the Johnson Administration. Joined Government in 1964
        Before joining the Government in 1964, he was with Arthur D. Little Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., and had been a vice president at the First Boston Corporation.
        Since 1980, he was adjunct professor of international economics at Tufts. He held a similar post at the Graduate School of International Affairs at Columbia University.
        Mr. Feer, who was a Fulbright grantee in India in 1952-53, had also been a director of W. R. Grace & Company and a member of the World Population Council, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Asian Society, the Japan Society, and India House. From 1958 to 1960, he served as president of the Westchester Association for Retarded Children.
        His first wife, Helene deLone Feer, died in 1973.
        Surviving are his wife, Susan Hecht Feer; two daughters from his first marriage, Camilla, of Copiague, L.I., and Barbara, of Seattle; a son, M. Peter, of Hanover, N.H.; two stepdaughters, Wendy and Cathy Cramer of Manhattan, and a stepson, Robert Cramer of Atlanta.
      