
       Dr. Charles Glen King, a nutritionist who co-discovered vitamin C, died of heart failure yesterday at West Chester (Pa.) Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        Dr. Charles Glen King, a nutritionist who co-discovered vitamin C, died of heart failure yesterday at West Chester (Pa.) Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        Dr. King and a colleague, Dr. William A. Waugh, isolated vitamin C in the juice of lemons in 1932, while they were professors at the University of Pittsburgh. Their discovery later enabled researchers to conclude that the vitamin has a major impact in preventing scurvy and malnutrition.
        Drs. King and Waugh were successful in obtaining a patent in 1941 for their process of isolating the vitimin, but were denied a patent for the vitimin itself by Patent Office tribunals since it was a know substance and had been isolated by a different method in adrenal glands in 1929 by Dr. Szent-Gyorgyi of Cambridge University, England.
        From 1941 to 1974, Dr. King was a chemistry professor at Columbia University, and conducted research in nutrition as the associate director of the Institute of Human Nutrition. He also served as a nutrition adviser in the Eisenhower Administration. Prolific Research
        Dr. King was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, president of the Nutrition Foundation Inc., president of the American Institute of Nutrition and a consultant for the Rockefeller Foundation and UNICEF.
        Born in Entiat, Wash., Dr. King graduated from Washington State University and received his master's degree and doctorate from the University of Pittsburgh.
        He researched and wrote more than 200 articles about the beneficial effects of vitamins and proper nutrition. He is also credited with linking malnutrition to some degenerative diseases. He won many awards, including the Charles Spence award from the American Chemical Society, and a medal of honor from the Academy of Sciences in Czechoslavakia for his work in nutrition.
        He is survived by his wife, Hilda Bainton; a daughter, Dorothy Hammel of Ellettsville, Ind.; two sons, Robert, of Syracuse, and Kendall, of Cullowhee, N.C.; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      