
       Pierre S. du Pont 3d, a retired business executive and former vice president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, died early yesterday at his home in Rockland, Del., after an illness of six months. He was 77 years old.
        Pierre S. du Pont 3d, a retired business executive and former vice president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, died early yesterday at his home in Rockland, Del., after an illness of six months. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. du Pont was a great-great-grandson of Eleuthere Irenee du Pont, the founder of the huge Delaware-based chemicals maker. His father was Lammot du Pont, a former president and chairman of the company, and his son, Pierre S. du Pont 4th, is a former Governor of Delaware and Republican Presidential candidate.
        He himself was a 1933 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and started the following year as a chemist in the company's experimental station in Wilmington, Del. During World War II, he was in charge of military products in du Pont's nylon division.
        Elected a director in 1948, he became assistant sales director in the rubber chemicals division of the organic chemical department. In 1954, he became company secretary and a member of the finance committee. From 1963 to 1965, he was a vice president and member of the executive committee.
        Mr. du Pont was engaged in community affairs and had an active interest in the Wilmington Medical Center and the Tower Hill School, of which he was a past president and chairman. He also was a yachting enthusiast, especially ocean sailing, and backed the construction of the American Eagle for the 1964 America's Cup races. For many years, he kept a summer home on Fishers Island, L.I.
        In addition to his son, survivors include two daughters, Jane du Pont Kidd of Dallas and Michele du Pont Goss of San Francisco; a sister, Mrs. G. Burton Pearson Jr. of Montchanin, Del.; and 11 grandchildren.
        A service will be held at 11:30 A.M. Tuesday at Christ Church Christiana Hundred in Greenville, Del.
      