
       Jim Jordan, who delighted audiences for two decades as the well-meaning but bumbling Fibber McGee in the classic radio show ''Fibber McGee and Molly,'' died today at the Beverly Hills Medical Center. He was 91 years old.
        Jim Jordan, who delighted audiences for two decades as the well-meaning but bumbling Fibber McGee in the classic radio show ''Fibber McGee and Molly,'' died today at the Beverly Hills Medical Center. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Jordan had been hospitalized for more than a week, in a coma with a blood clot in his brain caused by a fall at his home, according to a family friend, the radio and television performer Fran Allison. Mr. Jordan never regained consciousness after the accident.
        ''Fibber McGee and Molly'' was on the air on the NBC radio network from 1935 to 1957. For seven years, it was the top-rated show in the country. Among the show's familiar routines was McGee's overstuffed closet, the contents of which tumbled out on him whenever he opened the door.
        The McGees' home at, Wistful Vista, became a place on the American cultural road map, and Molly's gentle rejoinder to her husband - ''Tain't funny, McGee'' - became a national catch phrase.
        ''His show was one of the greatest continuing radio shows that ever existed,'' said Miss Allison, who starred in the ''Kukla, Fran and Ollie'' series in the early days of television. Co-Stars in Real Life
        Like the couple in the ''Fibber McGee and Molly'' scripts, the stars of the show were married. Jim and Marian Jordan came to radio out of vaudeville to formulate the quintessential American situation comedy with writer Don Quinn.
        Mr. Jordan met Marian Driscoll at choir practice when both were in their teens in Peoria, Ill. They married in 1918. Mrs. Jordan died of cancer in 1961.
        Mr. Jordan began a singing career while serving with the Army in Europe toward the end of World War I. After the war, he and his wife took their act on the road, with Mrs. Jordan playing piano. They began appearing on radio in 1925, but because the medium paid so badly, they continued to work in vaudeville. During 10 years of skits, they developed the Fibber McGee and Molly characters.
        ''It is typically American humor, neither the Broadway type nor Hollywood-influenced,'' Hubbard Keavy of the Associated Press wrote in 1940. ''They get their humor from simple things, like fixing the brakes or playing checkers. They never just tell jokes. They never step out of character.'' Uncomplicated Plots
        The situations in the show turned on such simple items as Fibber deciding, against Molly's advice, to tune the piano. His bumbling effort invariably was interrupted by the ''bong-bong'' of the door chimes.
        Their neighbors were a classic set of American characters.
        Hal Peary was the rumbling, pompous Great Gildersleeve; Cliff Arquette was the cantankerous old-timer whose line was ''That ain't the way I heard it, Johnny''; Bill Thompson was the henpecked Wallace Wimple, and Gale Gordon was Mayor Latrivia, whose rage always ended in a sputtering ''McGee!''
        ''We don't like - I mean, people don't like - humor that suggests anything repulsive,'' Mr. Jordan said in an interview at the height of the show's success. Anatomy gags, gibes about marriage and mother-in-law jokes were kept out of the scripts.
        In 1959-60, ''Fibber McGee and Molly'' appeared on NBC Television, but the Jordans were not in the series.
        Mr. Jordan was married a second time in 1962, to Gretchen Stewart, who survives him. He is also survived by a son and daughter and several grandchildren.
      