
       Willem Drees, Prime Minister of the Netherlands in the period of postwar recovery from 1948 to 1958 and architect of the nation's comprehensive welfare system, has died, the Government announced today. He was 101 years old.
        Willem Drees, Prime Minister of the Netherlands in the period of postwar recovery from 1948 to 1958 and architect of the nation's comprehensive welfare system, has died, the Government announced today. He was 101 years old.
        Mr. Drees died Saturday at his home in The Hague and was buried in a private ceremony Tuesday, according to a Government statement. News of his death had been withheld at the request of his family, the statement said.
        The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Drees had been in declining health in recent years.
        Mr. Drees began in politics as a member of the Social Democratic Workers' Party, the forerunner of the Labor Party, which he helped found after World War II. Led Nation's Recovery
        During his years as Prime Minister, he supervised the nation's re-emergence into prosperity as it recovered from the Nazi occupation.
        Under his leadership, the Netherlands joined both NATO and the Common Market, and he also presided over the Netherlands' withdrawal as a colonial power in what had been known as the Dutch East Indies.
        During his tenure, the Caribbean Dutch possessions of Suriname and the Netherlands Antilles also moved toward self-government.
        At first, the Drees Government sought to hold the Dutch East Indies through warfare, but then Mr. Drees decided that maintaining a colonial empire was a lost cause. In 1949, he handed over sovereignty of almost all the colony to the new Republic of Indonesia. Introduced Pension System
        That same year, he introduced a state pension for all citizens over 65, the basis of today's welfare system, and it was as the father of the Dutch welfare state that he is perhaps best remembered here.
        Despite some trimming by the administration of the current conservative Prime Minister, Ruud Lubbers, the welfare system still provides cradle-to-grave care.
        Born into a poor Amsterdam family on July 5, 1886, Mr. Drees began his political career as a stenographer in the Dutch Parliament. He won a seat in The Hague City Council in 1919 and went to Parliament in 1933 for the Social Democrats. Jailed at Buchenwald
        He spent part of the war as a prisoner at the Buchenwald concentration camp, but he was released because of a severe stomach ailment. He then became active in the Dutch resistance.
        Mr. Drees left the Labor Party in 1971, asserting that its left wing had betrayed the party's social democratic foundations.
        The issue of whether to deploy NATO cruise missiles on Dutch soil marked his final public clash with his successors in the Labor Party. Mr. Drees sharply criticized the Labor leadership of the day for its unconditional opposition to deployment.
        The Lubbers Government decided in favor of deployment in 1985. But under the agreement reached in December by the United States and Soviet Union to withdraw all medium-range nuclear missiles from Europe, deployment of the 48 missiles here was called off.
      