
       Col. Peter Julien Ortiz, a legendary officer in the Marine Corps, died of cancer Monday at the Veterans Medical Center in Prescott, Ariz. He was 75 years old and lived in Prescott.
        Col. Peter Julien Ortiz, a legendary officer in the Marine Corps, died of cancer Monday at the Veterans Medical Center in Prescott, Ariz. He was 75 years old and lived in Prescott.
        Colonel Ortiz was a highly decorated veteran of World War II and had received commendations from the French and British Governments for heroism behind enemy lines. His exploits in aiding the French resistance by coordinating the delivery of guns and ammunition, as well as in helping four downed British fliers were the subject of two motion pictures: ''13 Rue Madeleine,'' (1947) starring James Cagney, and ''Operation Secret,'' (1950) with Cornell Wilde.
        Colonel Ortiz, who was born in New York City and educated in France, served with the Office of Strategic Services in France and was the subject of an intense hunt by the Gestapo.  Medal Winner
        He was made a member of the Order of the British Empire (Military division) by King George VI and he received the Croix de Guerre, the Medaille des Blesses, the Medaille d'Evades, the Medaille Coloniale and was made a Knight of the Legion of Honor by the French Government. His American medals include two Navy Crosses, the Legion of Merit and two Purple Hearts.
        Before joining the Marines in June 1942, Colonel Ortiz was a member of the French Foreign Legion, which he had joined in 1932 at age 19. He was wounded in a battle between the French and the Germans in 1940 and was imprisoned in a prisoner of war camp in Austria.
        He escaped in October 1941 and made his way to the United States. He was commissioned a captain in the Marine Corps Reserve and was sent to North Africa, where he organized Arab tribesmen to scout the German forces in Tunisia. He was wounded, but after recovering was assigned to a British-organized O.S.S. unit that parachuted into France in 1943 to help with the resistance.
        A year later, with the Germans threatening reprisals against French villagers for the activities of the Office of Strategic Services unit, Colonel Ortiz surrendered and spent the remainder of the war in prison.
        The citation on one of his Navy Crosses reads in part: ''The story of the self-sacrifice of Major Ortiz and his Marines has become a brilliant legend in that section of France where acts of bravery were considered commonplace.''
        He is survived by his wife, Jean, and a son, Peter, a major in the Marines, both of Prescott.
      