
       Gregory Huffman, a leading dancer in the Joffrey Ballet from 1972 to 1983, died of complications resulting from AIDS yesterday at New York University Medical Center. Mr. Huffman, who had been ill with pneumotoxis pneumonia for the last two months, was 35 years old. He lived in Manhattan.
        Gregory Huffman, a leading dancer in the Joffrey Ballet from 1972 to 1983, died of complications resulting from AIDS yesterday at New York University Medical Center. Mr. Huffman, who had been ill with pneumotoxis pneumonia for the last two months, was 35 years old. He lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Huffman had an instant impact as a young dancer, coming to notice in Eliot Feld's ''Meadowlark.'' His early promise was fulfilled in 1980 when he offered what could be called the definitive performance of the day in the Joffrey's widely hailed revival of Vaslav Nijinsky's ''Apres-Midi d'un Faune.'' Unlike others in the title role, Mr. Huffman was able to eschew static poses; he made the sensuous faun tense with anticipation, aligning his body into a flow of maximum expressiveness.
        A highly versatile dancer, Mr. Huffman excelled as the romantic lead in such works as Agnes de Mille's ''Rodeo,'' Robert Joffrey's ''Remembrances'' and John Cranko's ''Pineapple Poll.'' He was also a partner in the classical style in Sir Frederick Ashton's ballets. He had leading roles in such contemporary works as Jerome Robbins's ''Moves'' and Gerald Arpino's ''Trinity.''
        In recent years, Mr. Huffman turned to choreography. The Memphis Ballet presented his pas de deux ''Behind the Garden Wall'' last month. Summer Study
        Mr. Huffman was born in Orlando, Fla., where he studied with Edith Royal, from whose school Robert Joffrey frequently recruited dancers. Mr. Huffman spent summers studying in New York at the American Ballet Center and the Joffrey school, and danced with Royal Ballet Concert and the Southeast Regional Ballet before joining the apprentice company then called Joffrey II.
        He joined the Joffrey Ballet in 1972, performing as a regular member through 1981 and then as guest artist until 1983. Mr. Huffman became a member of the Joffrey school's faculty last July.
        He is survived by his parents, Thomas and Macel Huffman of Orlando, and a brother, Harry.
      