
       Daniel Lewis James, who startled the literary world when he was revealed to be the author of a prize-winning novel about a Mexican-American family in a Los Angeles barrio, died Wednesday at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula in Monterey, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Carmel Highlands, Calif.
        Daniel Lewis James, who startled the literary world when he was revealed to be the author of a prize-winning novel about a Mexican-American family in a Los Angeles barrio, died Wednesday at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula in Monterey, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Carmel Highlands, Calif.
        Mr. James wrote the novel ''Famous All Over Town.'' When it was published in 1983, the name of the author was listed on the book as Danny Santiago, whom the dust jacket described as having grown up in Los Angeles. In fact, Mr. James grew up in Kansas City, Mo., graduated from Andover Academy and said he was the only member of the Yale Class of 1933 to major in classical Greek.
        Mr. James kept his secret from his literary agent and his publisher until months after the book had been published, when he disclosed he was Danny Santiago to the writer John Gregory Dunne. He chose to use a pseudonym, he said, because he believed he had been blacklisted after he was identified before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1951 as having been a member of the Communist Party. He had also lost confidence in his writing ability, he said.  Novel Won $5,000 Award
        Mr. James based the novel on people and places he and his wife knew in the 20 years they spent as volunteer workers in the neighborhood depicted in the book. The review in The New York Times Book Review described ''Famous All Over Town'' as ''an honest, steady novel that presents some hard cultural realities while not for a paragraph failing to entertain.''
        The novel won the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation Award, a $5,000 prize for an outstanding work of fiction presented by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. Its publisher, Simon & Schuster, had wanted to submit it for the Pulitzer Prize, but the Pulitzer rules required that a photograph be submitted along with the book, and the author had not supplied a photo of himself.
        Mr. James's use of a Hispanic surname was both denounced and defended by Hispanic-American writers, and he said some friends had warned him against using it. ''But I said the pen name is pretty well established, with Mark Twain, Rabelais and so many others,'' the author said. ''I said nobody's going to be hurt if the book's any good.''
        Mr. James is survived by his wife, Lilith, of Carmel Highlands, and by two daughters: Barbara James of Madison, Wis., and Catherine McWilliams of Westchester County, New York.
        DANIEL LEWIS JAMES IS DEAD AT 77
      