
       Giorgio Almirante, who had a minor role in Mussolini's last government and was a founder and longtime leader of Italy's small but vocal neo-Fascist party, died today. He was 73 years old.
        Giorgio Almirante, who had a minor role in Mussolini's last government and was a founder and longtime leader of Italy's small but vocal neo-Fascist party, died today. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Almirante, who suffered from heart disease for years, died of complications of ischemia, a condition caused by arterial blockage, according to hospital officials quoted by the Italian news agency ANSA.
        At his side when he died, the agency said, were his wife, Rafaela, their four children, and the current leader of his party, GianFranco Fini.
        Elected to the Chamber of Deputies 11 times from 1948 to 1987, Mr. Almirante had been charged with helping a right-wing terrorist, but the charges were dropped under a 1987 amnesty. Headed 4th-Largest Party
        His party, the Italian Social Movement, was the political heir to Mussolini's Fascism. By 1987, it had become Italy's fourth-largest party in Parliament, holding 5.9 percent of the seats in the Chamber of Deputies.
        Another former party leader, Pino Romualdi, died of cancer Friday. Mr. Romualdi, 77, was editor of the party newspaper. He served in the Chamber of Deputies between 1953 and 1979 and was a Senator from 1983 to 1987.
        The party announced that a joint funeral for Mr. Almirante and Mr. Romualdi would be held Tuesday at St. Agnes Church in the Piazza Navona here.
        Mr. Almirante was born June 27, 1914. He joined Mussolini's last government in 1943 as chief of staff of the Ministry of Popular Culture and served until the end of World War II. Never Brought to Trial
        In February 1979, the Chamber of Deputies removed Mr. Almirante's parliamentary immunity so prosecutors could try him for reviving the outlawed Fascist Party. But he was re-elected to Parliament and the immunity-lifting process had to begin again. He never went to trial.
        Parliament again deprived him of immunity in 1981 and 1984 so that he would have to face charges of aiding a right-wing terrorist accused in a 1972 bombing that killed two policemen. Mr. Almirante was charged with helping finance surgery to change the vocal cords of a bombing suspect so he could dodge his identification by voice patterns.
        Those charges were dropped under a February 1987 amnesty that covered offenses carrying less than a three-year term.
        In December, Mr. Almirante stepped down as national secretary of the Italian Social Movement, which supports a halt to the influx of immigrants, a stronger presidency and tougher measures against organized crime.
      