
       Count Dino Grandi, an early leader of the Italian Fascists and a close ally of Mussolini, died on Saturday at his home in Bologna. He was 92 years old and, according to a report by the state-run Italian television network, had suffered from cardiac and circulatory problems for some time.
        Count Dino Grandi, an early leader of the Italian Fascists and a close ally of Mussolini, died on Saturday at his home in Bologna. He was 92 years old and, according to a report by the state-run Italian television network, had suffered from cardiac and circulatory problems for some time.
        Count Grandi was the second of three prominent Fascists, and by far the most senior, to die within a few days. Last Friday, Pino Romualdi, the editor of the neo-Fascist party newspaper and a former member of Parliament, died of cancer at the age of 77. On Sunday, Giorgio Almirante, who was a member of Mussolini's last Government during World War II and who later led the postwar neo-Fascists, died of a heart ailment at the age of 73.
        Count Grandi, who was from an earlier political generation than the two other men, emerged from World War I as a highly decorated captain. He was one of a number of young politicians who rallied to Mussolini's banner, forming Fascist squads as a prelude to their seizure of power. He was elected to Parliament in 1919, at the age of 24, and started a militant newspaper, L'Assalto (The Charge). He soon became known for his leadership and for his combativeness against the opponents of the Fascists. March on Rome
        He failed to win a top post in the Fascist movement at its convention in 1921 but became a member of the party's General Directorate. A year later, he was a leader of the march on Rome that secured the downfall of the Government and put Mussolini in power.
        Mussolini made him Undersecretary of the Interior in 1924 and Count Grandi soon became well known abroad as a delegate to international conferences. In 1929, after four years in diplomatic work, he was appointed Foreign Minister, a post he held until 1932, when he became Ambassador to London.He remained in England until 1939.
        Named Justice Minister after World War II began, Count Grandi tried but failed to persuade Mussolini to support Britain and its allies. He also unsuccessfully urged King Victor Emmanuel III to remove Mussolini from power. In July 1943, he presented the parliamentary resolution that deposed Mussolini and the puppet Fascist Government that fought alongside the Nazis.
        But a Fascist tribunal condemned Count Grandi to death, and he fled to Portugal. After the war he was tried in absentia by a Rome court for his role in the 1922 Fascist insurrection, but was cleared.
        Count Grandi went to Brazil to represent Italian business. He later returned to Bologna to live quietly.
      