
       David F. Schoenbrun, the witty and versatile CBS correspondent who was one of Edward R. Murrow's original team in the 1940's, died at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan yesterday morning. He was 73 years old.
        David F. Schoenbrun, the witty and versatile CBS correspondent who was one of Edward R. Murrow's original team in the 1940's, died at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan yesterday morning. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Schoenbrun, who had a history of heart trouble, had a heart attack after a prostate operation, according to his widow, Dorothy.
        Known for his reporting on postwar France, both as a radio and television reporter, Mr. Schoenbrun joined the Columbia Broadcasting System in May 1947, after working for Government news services during World War II. Recruited by Edward R. Murrow
        Mr. Schoenbrun was recruited by Edward R. Murrow as part of a group of young men who came to symbolize television news for CBS in the 1950's. He worked with such figures of early television news as Fred W. Friendly, Winston Burdette, Charles Collingwood and Douglas Edwards.
        In recent years, he was a freelance broadcaster and television writer and the author of a half-dozen books.
        ''He was a broadcast journalist when broadcast journalism was a serious business,'' said Mr. Friendly, now Edward R. Murrow Professor Emeritus at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. Studied Charles de Gaulle
        ''There were people who were more handsome,'' said Mr. Friendly, remembering Mr. Schoenbrun, his friend of 35 years, who had thinning hair, a mustache that slanted down and eyebrows that slanted upward. ''There were people with more charisma, and people who better understood the chemistry of television. But nobody ever covered Paris and Charles de Gaulle as well as he did.''
        Mr. Schoenbrun left CBS in 1964, after a series of quarrels with the network's management. He went on to become a lecturer and freelance broadcaster and to write numerous books, many about France. Among his books were ''The Three Lives of Charles de Gaulle'' (1966), based on a long association with the French leader; and, most recently, ''America Inside Out'' (1984), a look at 50 years of relations between the United States and the rest of the world.
        Born in New York City in 1915, David Franz Schoenbrun taught French and Spanish and became a freelance writer after graduating from City College in 1934.
        He enlisted in the Army in 1943 and was later sent to Algiers. His broadcast career began there with a weekly program for the United Nations radio. Mr. Murrow appointed him chief Paris correspondent for CBS News in 1947. His journalistic travels took him throughout Europe and to Vietnam, among other places. He was known as a sometimes emotional reporter, once saying that ''reporters are humans, not machines.''
        In addition to his widow, Mr. Schoenbrun is survived by his brother, Paul, of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Lucy Szekely, of Paris and Budapest; and two grandchildren.
        Funeral services are to be private. .
      