
       Julio Tanjeloff, an importer of gems and minerals who had a meteoric career in New York retailing in the 1970's before most of his ventures collapsed, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old.
        Julio Tanjeloff, an importer of gems and minerals who had a meteoric career in New York retailing in the 1970's before most of his ventures collapsed, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Tanjeloff, who was born in Buenos Aires, at one time owned two of the city's most prestigious stores -Georg Jensen Silverware and Rosenthal Studio-Haus, which sold fine chinaware and glass. He also tried unsuccessfully in 1975 to revive S. Klein On-the-Square, the bargain fashion store that had closed after 65 years on 14th Street.
        Through it all, however, Mr. Tanjeloff maintained his original venture, Astro Minerals Ltd., at 155 East 34th Street, where he sold precious stones.
        He was credited with being among the first merchants to import and help to make popular unusual mineral stones for a mass market. His stock in the basement of Astro at times reached 150 tons. While he had an exclusive clientele who bought expensive gems, he also periodically cleaned out his basement, selling rare mineral pieces at bargain prices.
        Though Mr. Tanjeloff held a law degree, he entered the construction field in Argentina. Within a few years, he had made nearly $10 million and had bought several mines.
        When the Peron regime expropriated some of his properties, he left for New York in 1961, where he made his home. In 1975, Mr. Tanjeloff acquired Georg Jensen and Rosenthal Studio-Haus and bought the lease on the S. Klein property, but despite his wealth, he became overextended, and before long, the stores were closed and the Klein revival was abandoned. He then returned to the precious-minerals business full time.
        Mr. Tanjeloff is survived by his wife, the former Anna Cuomo; two sons, Edgar, of Great Neck, L.I., and Jorge, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Dr. Aida Tanjeloff de Herran of Buenos Aires, and five grandchildren.
      