
       Former President Siaka P. Stevens, who led this small West African nation for 17 years, died today at his home after a brief illness. He was 82 years old.
        Former President Siaka P. Stevens, who led this small West African nation for 17 years, died today at his home after a brief illness. He was 82 years old.
        ''The Government of Sierra Leone and All People's Congress Party regret to announce the death of His Excellency Siaka Stevens,'' the Government said in a statement.
        It said Mr. Stevens died at his Juba Hill home in Freetown, the capital. The statement did not mention the cause of death, but said further announcements would be made later.
        Mr. Stevens was one of the few African leaders ever to relinquish power voluntarily. Prime Minister in 1968
        He became Prime Minister of Sierra Leone in 1968 after a military coup and assumed the presidency on April 21, 1971, two days after Sierra Leone became a republic.
        Mr. Stevens was President until November 1985, when he transferred power to a handpicked successor, Maj. Gen. Joseph Momoh, the armed forces commander, with whom he later quarreled.
        Mr. Stevens, described in ''Who's Who in Africa'' as ''a bluff, friendly, approachable, pragmatic socialist'' was born Aug. 24, 1905.
        He had made a name for himself and secured a following as a trade unionist when the British still ruled Sierra Leone.
        As British rule came to an end, Mr. Stevens refused to join a three-party coalition that was to assume power. Instead, he formed the opposition All People's Congress.
        He was on the sidelines on April 27, 1961, when Sierra Leone became independent and Sir Milton Margai became the first Prime Minister.
        Margai died a day after the third anniversary of Sierra Leone's independence and was succeeded as Prime Minister and head of the governing party by Sir Albert Margai, no relation. Survived Several Coup Attempts
        Mr. Stevens's party won the March 1967 general elections, but shortly after Mr. Stevens was sworn in as Prime Minister, he and other officials were arrested by the chief of the army.
        After a month of military infighting that saw power change hands at least three times, a military-led National Interim Council took control and returned the leadership of the country to Mr. Stevens's civilian Government.
        He survived two coup attempts, in September 1970 and March 1972.
        Mr. Stevens was among the first voices in what has become a chorus of protests in Africa over the lending policies of the International Monetary Fund, which normally demands that would-be borrowers cut subsidies, devalue their currency and take other unpopular measures. He called such moves ''political suicide.''
        Sierra Leone was in a severe economic crisis at the time of his retirement. There were shortages of fuel, food and foreign exchange and the coastal nation of 5 million people had a reputation as a paradise for smugglers.
        Mr. Stevens's relations with President Momoh, his former protege, became strained after an unsuccessful coup plot early in 1987. The former Vice President and 17 others were convicted of treason in the abortive attempt.
        No charges were brought against Mr. Stevens, but several of those convicted were his close associates.
        Britain subsequently refused Mr. Stevens a visa.
        The coup plotters were sentenced to death. Their appeal is now before the high court.
      