
       George Rose, a veteran comic actor who was as adept at Shakespeare as at Gilbert and Sullivan and who won two Tony Awards, was found dead early today in an overturned car near his vacation home in the Dominican Republic. The police there said Mr. Rose's death appeared to have been the result of an accident.
        George Rose, a veteran comic actor who was as adept at Shakespeare as at Gilbert and Sullivan and who won two Tony Awards, was found dead early today in an overturned car near his vacation home in the Dominican Republic. The police there said Mr. Rose's death appeared to have been the result of an accident. He was 68 years old. Lieut. Col. Melchor Lara Morillo of the Dominican Republic police said the police had investigated rumors that Mr. Rose had been the victim of a robbery, but they concluded he died from head injuries after his car left the road and turned over several times.
        Bea Garcia, an American and a friend of the actor who lived near Mr. Rose in the Dominican Republic, said the actor had recently dismissed the housekeepers at his vacation home in a bitter dispute. Mrs. Garcia said that when she saw the body at the scene of the accident the injuries did not seem consistent with a car accident. Speculation on the Cause
        Lieut. Manuel Raposo, another police officer, said in a telephone interview, however, that there was ''absolutely nothing to support the belief that this was a murder.''
        Sgt. Eladio Gomez Morales said the police found Mr. Rose's rented car in a narrow ditch about a mile east of the town of Sosua. The police said the car had been traveling at moderate speed, and they speculated that he fell asleep late Wednesday night as he returned from a day trip.
        Mrs. Garcia said Mr. Rose bought a three-bedroom house with a pool on the ocean near Sosua five years ago and had talked of retiring there.
        Mr. Rose had been appearing in Washington in a touring production of ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood'' and flew to the Dominican Republic after the Washington engagement ended last weekend.
      