
       George Rose was one of the most versatile, inventive and hard-working actors on the Broadway and London stage during the last 40 years. The British-born actor, who won two Tony Awards and was nominated for three others, was known for his performances in such musical comedies as ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' ''The Pirates of Penzance'' and ''My Fair Lady.
        George Rose was one of the most versatile, inventive and hard-working actors on the Broadway and London stage during the last 40 years. The British-born actor, who won two Tony Awards and was nominated for three others, was known for his performances in such musical comedies as ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' ''The Pirates of Penzance'' and ''My Fair Lady.''
        ''George was a consummate actor,'' said Joseph Papp, whose New York Shakespeare Festival produced ''The Pirates of Penzance'' and ''Drood.'' ''He represented the best, old-fashioned values of the theater,'' Mr. Papp said yesterday.
        Mr. Rose was born Feb. 19, 1920, in Bicester, an English village near Oxford. He left school at 16 to work as a secretary at Oxford University, a job that ended with World War II. After three years of army service, he studied music and drama and got his first small acting roles at the Old Vic Theater in London. New York Debut in 1946
        Mr. Rose spent four seasons with the Old Vic Company, making his New York debut in its 1946 production of ''Henry IV, Part 1.'' He appeared in myriad supporting roles in classical and contemporary plays in the late 1940's and 50's in London's West End. With the Royal Shakespeare Company he made a name for himself as a Shakespearean comic actor and solidified it with his performance in a 1959 New York production of ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' about which Brooks Atkinson wrote: ''Mr. Rose's Dogberry makes it unnecessary for anyone to play the part again.''
        A turning point in his career and life came in January 1961, when Mr. Rose assumed the eight-character role of the Common Man in Robert Bolt's ''Man for All Seasons'' in the West End. The play came to Broadway that year, and Mr. Rose was named the season's best supporting actor by Variety.
        After nearly two years touring with the production, Mr. Rose decided to settle in New York. ''I didn't ever really intend emigrating,'' he later said, ''but I was sort of too lazy and too contented to move back.'' First Tony Nomination
        Mr. Rose became a fixture on Broadway in the 1960's, impressing critics with his performances as the Gravedigger in John Gielgud's 1964 ''Hamlet,'' a suspicious storekeeper in William Hanley's ''Slow Dance on Killing Ground'' (1964), a bitter soldier in Peter Shaffer's 1965 ''Royal Hunt of the Sun'' and the detective in Joe Orton's ''Loot'' (1968).
        Mr. Rose received his first Tony nomination for his portrayal of Louis Greff, Coco Chanel's friend, in the 1969 musical ''Coco.'' After national and touring-company work, Mr. Rose triumphantly returned to Broadway in Charles Lawrence's 1974 comedy ''My Fat Friend,'' garnering a Drama Desk Award and another Tony nomination. In 1976, he played Alfred P. Doolittle in a Broadway revival of ''My Fair Lady,'' winning a Tony Award for best actor in a musical.
        After acting in such disparate plays as Shaw's ''Devil's Disciple,'' ''Peter Pan'' and ''The Kingfisher'' - for which he won a 1979 Drama Desk Award - Mr. Rose was cast as Major General Stanley in the New York Shakespeare Festival's 1980 production of Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Pirates of Penzance,'' earning his fourth Tony nomination.
        His association with Mr. Papp continued with the 1985 production of ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' and Mr. Rose won his second Tony Award for his portrayal of the master of ceremonies.
        Mr. Rose once said that his role in ''Drood'' integrated ''the things that I became successful in when I was very young and the things that I've learned here - my capacity for playing Shakespearean clowns and the kind of edge to my musical work that I've learned in the United States.''
        Mr. Rose's credits also included more than 30 films, beginning with ''The Pickwick Papers'' (1952) and including ''A Night to Remember'' (1958), ''Hawaii'' (1966) and ''The Pirates of Penzance'' (1983). He rarely appeared on television, but was in the mini-series ''Holocaust.'' He also made literary recordings, many for the American Foundation for the Blind.
        Mr. Rose, who never married, lived in Greenwich Village, sharing his spacious loft with cats, dogs and a large record collection. He had no survivors.
      