
       Jorgen R. Jenk, a member of the Danish resistance in World War II and later an international business executive who was president of Georg Jensen Inc., died of heart and liver failure on Tuesday at Charing Cross Hospital in London. He was 65 years old and lived in London.
        Jorgen R. Jenk, a member of the Danish resistance in World War II and later an international business executive who was president of Georg Jensen Inc., died of heart and liver failure on Tuesday at Charing Cross Hospital in London. He was 65 years old and lived in London.
        Mr. Jenk, who was born in Kerteminde, Denmark, operated during the German occupation under the code name Finn. Based in Copenhagen, he was part of an operation that in 1943 smuggled most of Denmark's 8,000 Jews to safety in Sweden.
        Some years later, replying to praise from Jewish organizations, he said: ''Of course we appreciate the gratitude, but please understand that these were our friends -the baker on the corner, the postman, the family down the street. We just couldn't let them down.'' Provincial Governor in Nigeria
        Mr. Jenk was apprehended by German forces but escaped by way of Sweden to England and was parachuted back into Denmark as a British special-forces operative. When the war ended he was a captain in the Royal East Kent Regiment and, joining the British colonial service, he was sent to Nigeria as a provincial governor.
        In 1950, after leaving British Government service, Mr. Jenk held a series of industrial posts involving service in Africa and Asia. From 1950 to 1957 he was overseas director of Fisons Pest Control Ltd., Britain's largest manufacturer of chemical products for the protection of crops. He negotiated a merger with Tata Industries, based in Bombay, India, and was managing director of Tata Fisons Ltd., until 1965.
        He then came to New York and was named vice president of Georg Jensen, the silver and home-furnishings retailer that was then one of Fifth Avenue's premier carriage-trade stores. The next year he became president of the concern and remained in that post until 1970, after the company had been sold by its founders.
        Mr. Jenk, a strong proponent of population control, was director of resource development for the International Planned Parenthood Federation in the 1970's and, from 1973 to 1978, was executive director of the International Pregnancy Advisory Service.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Faith Sisman; a daughter, Pia of London, and three sons, Torbin and Finn of Philadelphia and Justin of Boston.
      