
       Costantino Nivola, a sculptor who did public commissions for buildings at Harvard, Yale and a number of other sites in the Northeast, died of a heart attack Thursday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in The Springs on Long Island.
        Costantino Nivola, a sculptor who did public commissions for buildings at Harvard, Yale and a number of other sites in the Northeast, died of a heart attack Thursday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in The Springs on Long Island.
        Mr. Nivola was also known for work on a more intimate scale. In shows at the Washburn Gallery in New York during the 1980's, he exhibited a series of female figures in carved and polished marble and bronze. Their stylized but sensuously modeled shapes -which also held the suggestion of landscapes - were influenced by the archaic female forms of Mediterranean culture.
        Mr. Nivola, born in Orani, Sardinia, in 1911, was the son of a master mason, and served as a mason's apprentice before winning a scholarship to study art in Monza, Italy. After moving to New York in 1939 with his wife, Ruth, he served as art director for Progressive Architecture and Interiors magazine, where he was an early champion of modern architecture.
        In 1955 he directed the Design Workshop at Harvard University. He first exhibited in New York City in 1944 in a two-man show at the Wakefield Gallery with the artist Saul Steinberg. His last solo show was at the Washburn Gallery in 1987, and his sculpture is currently on view in ''Three Italo-American Artists,'' an exhibition touring in Italy. Record Size for Bas-Relief
        In 1957, using a technique he had developed of sculpturing in sand and casting the results directly in concrete, Mr. Nivola produced what was then thought to be the biggest bas-relief in modern history, a 110-foot-long mural of reinforced concrete for the new building of the Mutual Insurance Company of Hartford.
        Among his other public commissions are a war memorial in Falls Church, Va., dedicated to the ''Four Chaplains'' of World War II. He created a number of sculptures and wall paintings for playgrounds in and around New York, and a dramatic sand-sculptured wall -now at Harvard University - for the former Olivetti Company showroom on Fifth Avenue. At his death, he was working on an extensive sculptural commission for a combined police precinct and firehouse in two landmark buildings on East 67th Street.
        Since 1948, Mr. Nivola - a small man with an exuberant smile, who was known as Tino to his friends - had lived with his family in an old farmhouse in The Springs, where he won local renown for the excellence of his backyard cooking.
        Mr. Nivola is survived by his wife; by a son, Pietro, of Washington; a daughter, Claire Kiley of Somerville, Mass.; four grandchildren, and five sisters and a brother who live in Italy.
      