
       Dr. Hans Popper, an authority on liver diseases and a principal figure in the founding of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York, died of pancreatic cancer Friday. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Hans Popper, an authority on liver diseases and a principal figure in the founding of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York, died of pancreatic cancer Friday. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Popper played a major role in the understanding of hepatitis viruses. He was known internationally as the founder of hepatology, the study of the liver and its diseases.
        Among his contributions to medicine was his research demonstrating that the liver is the only organ in the body that does not deteriorate with age. The research had major ramifications in the field of liver transplantation. The author of 800 papers and 28 books, he established diagnostic guidelines for several major liver diseases.
        Dr. Popper, the Gustave L. Levy Distinquished Service Professor at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, was the medical school's first dean of academic affairs when it was created in 1963. He also served as president and dean of the Mount Sinai Medical Center in 1972 and 1973. A Native of Austria
        Born in Vienna in 1903, Dr. Popper attended medical school at the University of Vienna. As a young physician in Austria, he conducted research in biochemistry, then a new field of medical inquiry.
        With Austria under Nazi occupation, Dr. Popper came to the United States in 1938, settling in Chicago. Between 1938 and 1957, he received a research fellowship at the Cook County Hospital, earned a doctorate in pathology at the University of Illinois and held a succession of senior positions at the Cook County Hospital, including director of pathology.
        He moved to New York City in 1957, accepting a position as chief pathologist at Mount Sinai. As its first dean, he played a central role in shaping the academic philosphy of the Mount Sinai Medical School, which was incorporated in 1963 and admitted its first students in 1968.
        He was chairman of the medical school's department of pathology until 1973, when he gave up his administrative duties. He remained active in research and teaching until his death.
        Dr. Popper is survived by his wife, the former Lina Billig; two sons, Dr. Frank, of Highland Park, N.J., and Dr. Charles, of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      