
       John J. McNamara, an architect who designed and renovated some of the best-known theaters in New York City, died April 26 in Raleigh, N.C., his home in recent years. He was 90 years old.
        John J. McNamara, an architect who designed and renovated some of the best-known theaters in New York City, died April 26 in Raleigh, N.C., his home in recent years. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. McNamara practiced under his own name in New York for 35 years after more than a decade in the office of Thomas W. Lamb, one of the nation's most respected and prolific theater architects.
        Mr. McNamara designed the Coronet Theater, an addition to the Baronet, at Third Avenue and 59th Street; the 34th Street East Theater, near Second Avenue, from what had been a power substation, and the 23d Street West Theater, near Eighth Avenue.
        He was the architect in 1960 of the 13-story Stevens Center building at the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J. In 1966, he designed the marquee of the Winter Garden Theater, at Broadway and 50th Street in Manhattan. Series of Theater Renovations
        But Mr. McNamara gained the most attention for his renovation work.
        An early project, in 1951, was the alteration of the Little Carnegie Theater, 146 West 57th Street, which was torn down six years ago.
        Two Times Square movie palaces came to his drawing board for renovation in 1959: the 4,417-seat Capitol, at Broadway and 51st Street, and the Loew's State, at Broadway and 45th Street. The Capitol was redesigned to accommodate live shows. Both are now gone, although the Loew's State was only recently demolished.
        Mr. McNamara remodeled the Palace Theater, at Broadway and 47th Street, in 1965. That renowned vaudeville house had been a movie theater for many years until its purchase by the Nederlander family, which converted it into a legitimate Broadway theater. The stage was rehabilitated and widened, dressing rooms were modernized and seats were added. The interior is now an official landmark. 'Soft, Understated Route'
        In 1973, Mr. McNamara redesigned the R.K.O. Colonial Theater, at Broadway and 62d Street, into the Harkness Theater, the first in the city devoted exclusively to dance. It closed in 1976 and has been replaced by an apartment tower, One Harkness Plaza.
        Five years later, he supervised renovation of the New Apollo Theater, 234 West 43d Street. Paul Goldberger said in The New York Times that the ''venerable'' Mr. McNamara ''chose to take a soft, understated route with the Apollo - he wisely decided not to add too much of his own, but to let the old building speak for itself.'' The theater is now called the Academy.
        Mr. McNamara is survived by three daughters, Jane Bowler of Chapel Hill, N.C.; Joan Fanning of Pittsburgh, and Jean Schmutz of Garden City, L.I.; two sisters, Agnes Stone and Miriam Butler; 10 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      