
       Robert A. Heinlein, a former aviation engineer whose clever interweaving of imagination and technical expertise helped make him one of the country's most successful writers of science fiction, died Sunday morning at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 80 years old and had been in ill health for some time.
        Robert A. Heinlein, a former aviation engineer whose clever interweaving of imagination and technical expertise helped make him one of the country's most successful writers of science fiction, died Sunday morning at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 80 years old and had been in ill health for some time.
        Mr. Heinlein's fictional writings repeatedly anticipated scientific and technical advances. He managed to write a story about an atomic power plant some years before the first atomic bomb was detonated. Over the years, he won an enormous and loyal public, and his dozens of books sold more than 40 million copies.
        His writing won many science-fiction awards, and some of it was made into movies. He also wrote several screenplays, as well as some nonfiction books and articles on technical subjects.
        Mr. Heinlein's eminence stemmed partly from the success among young people of ''A Stranger in a Strange Land,'' which was published in 1961. Its sardonic attitude toward modern mores proved popular in a decade that saw students challenge many established institutions. 'Violence and Gusto'
        Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times that in the novel, Mr. Heinlein ''expresses his sardonic opinions with violence and gusto.'' The reviewer also called an earlier Heinlein tale, ''The Green Hills of Earth,'' ''a science-fiction classic.''
        Mr. Heinlein's writing style was generally simple, and so was his explanation of how he went about his writing.
        ''I start out with some characters and get them into trouble,'' he told one interviewer, ''and when they get themselves out of trouble, the story's over.''
        Robert Anson Heinlein (Hine-Line) was born on Oct. 21, 1907, in Butler, Mo., and grew up a fan of such classic science-fiction authors as H. G. Wells and Jules Verne. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1929 and remained in the service until 1934. He later did graduate work in physics and mathematics at the University of California at Los Angeles. Speed Was All
        He turned to writing full time in 1939, beginning with stories for the pulp magazines. ''They didn't want it good,'' he said in a 1980 interview in The Times. ''They wanted it Wednesday.''
        He interrupted his writing during World War II, which he spent as an aviation engineer with the Navy. After the war, he wrote for major magazines, including The Saturday Evening Post, and then took up writing science-fiction novels, initially for young people and then, beginning in the 1950's, for adults.
        Mr. Heinlein was married in 1948 to Virginia Doris Gerstenfeld, who survives him.
      