
       Dr. Carroll Roop Daugherty, a distinguished economist, labor arbitrator and educator, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Scripps Memorial Hospitals in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 years old and lived in La Jolla.
        Dr. Carroll Roop Daugherty, a distinguished economist, labor arbitrator and educator, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Scripps Memorial Hospitals in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 years old and lived in La Jolla.
        Dr. Daugherty, who after 22 years on the faculty of Northwestern University was named a professor emeritus upon his retirement in 1968, played a major role in labor relations over the years.
        He served as the chief economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics and at the Wage and Hour Administration in the Roosevelt Administration. He also directed the Wage Stabilization Division of the National War Labor Board. After the war he directed negotiations between the United States and New Zealand to settle Lend-Lease arrangements between the two countries. Pension Plan Still in Use
        He is renowned for a noncontributory pension plan he helped devise for steel employees in 1949 that still exists today. The provision set the trend for expanding labor welfare benefits in private industry.
        This came about after President Truman selected him as chairman of a board of inquiry that tried to head off strikes by organized labor that would have involved about three million workers in the steel, coal, automobile, electrical manufacturing, rubber, shipbuilding and other key industries.
        As board chairman he proposed a settlement for the million-worker steel industry that avoided a fourth round of post-World War II wage increases but opened the door to management-paid pensions and welfare benefits. The United Steelworkers of America had demanded a 30-cent-an-hour pay increase but accepted the board's recommendation of 6 cents an hour in pension benefits and 4 cents an hour toward life insurance, hospitalization, disability and sick pay. Service as Arbitrator
        When the major steel companies rejected the proposal, the union called a strike. It was settled six weeks later along the lines set by the Presidential panel.
        He also served as a referee for the National Railroad Adjustment Board and later served as a permanent arbitrator in disputes dealing with about three dozen industries.
        Dr. Daugherty, who had a Ph.D. from the Wharton School of Finance, was the author of seven college texts on labor matters, including such standards as ''Labor Problems in American Industry'' and ''The Economics of the Iron and Steel Industry.'' He taught at the University of Alabama, the University of Pittsburgh, Hunter College, the University of Pennsylvania and Northwestern University.
        He became widely known for his ''Seven Tests for Just Cause,'' the criteria used in cases involving employee discharge and discipline.
        He is survived by his wife, Marion Roberts Daugherty, of La Jolla; two sons, James C., of Bradenton, Fla., and David H., of Tulsa, Okla.; and two daughters, Anne Juliet Gibert of Atlanta, Ga., and Frances Tessmer, of San Diego, Calif.
      