
       Joseph T. Shipley, a drama critic in New York for more than 60 years, a writer, an editor and a member of the first faculty of Yeshiva College, died of a stroke Wednesday on a visit to London. He was 94 years old and lived in New York.
        Joseph T. Shipley, a drama critic in New York for more than 60 years, a writer, an editor and a member of the first faculty of Yeshiva College, died of a stroke Wednesday on a visit to London. He was 94 years old and lived in New York.
        Mr. Shipley became the drama critic of The Call in 1918. The publication later became The New Leader, and he remained the drama critic until 1962. From 1940 to 1982, his theater reviews were heard on radio station WEVD in New York on his program ''First Nights.'' He was president of the New York Drama Critics Circle from 1952 to 1954 and the group's secretary for 16 years, until 1982.
        He was the author or editor of 27 books. The last, ''Origins of English Words,'' was published in 1984 by Johns Hopkins University Press when he was 91 years old. Helped Set Up Yeshiva College
        From 1928 to 1944, he was secretary to the president, assistant professor and then associate professor of English at Yeshiva College. ''He was a member of the first faculty of the college of liberal arts,'' said Sam Hartstein, Yeshiva's director of public relations. ''He was a close aide to the school's first president, Dr. Bernard Revel, and was part of the group that helped establish the first liberal arts college under Jewish auspices, known as Yeshiva College, which became Yeshiva University.''
        Mr. Shipley was born in Brooklyn and graduated from City College in 1912. He received a Ph.D. in comparative literature from Columbia in 1931. He taught English at Stuyvesant High School from 1914 to 1957, and also taught at City College and Brooklyn College.
        He was an honorary overseas member of the Critics Circle in London, and in 1977 City College awarded him the Townsend Harris Medal for his distinguished career in criticism. Among First to Write on O'Neill
        In 1926, he wrote ''The Art of Eugene O'Neill'' for the University of Washington Press, one of the first books devoted to the playwright. Among his other books as author or editor are ''The Crown Guide to the World's Great Plays''; ''In Praise of English''; ''Dictionary of Forgotten Words''; ''Five Plays by Ibsen''; ''Dictionary of Early English''; ''Trends in Literature''; ''Dictionary of World Literature''; ''Encyclopedia of Literature''; ''The Quest for Literature,'' and ''Dictionary of Word Origins.''
        ''I was first taken to the theater to see 'The Mikado' when I was 6 years old,'' he wrote in the preface to ''The Crown Guide to the World's Great Plays.'' ''I have seen 'Hamlet' beginning with Sarah Bernhardt. I have seen every Gilbert and Sullivan company in New York in this century. I still feel that the theater is the most rewarding form of public art.''
        Mr. Shipley is survived by his wife, Shirley; a sister, Ruth Busch, of New York; four children: Paul Schaffner of Los Angeles; Margaret Fiedler of Buffalo; John Burke Shipley of Chicago, and Dr. Howard Thorne Shipley of Miami; 19 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
      