
       Thomas E. Stephens, a lawyer and former appointment secretary to President Eisenhower, died Sunday at the Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. He was 84 years old.
        Thomas E. Stephens, a lawyer and former appointment secretary to President Eisenhower, died Sunday at the Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Stephens, a behind-the-scenes tactician, helped Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York open a successful campaign for the Republican nomination for the Presidency in 1948, only to see him lose to President Truman in the general election. He had more success with Dwight D. Eisenhower, and helped orchestrate the movement to draft the wartime general to run for President.
        He joined Eisenhower's staff in 1952, and stepped down three years later to help with the campaign for re-election. He returned to the post of appointment secretary after the victory in 1956.
        Mr. Stephens, born in County Dublin, Ireland, was known for his sense of humor. He once organized a St. Patrick's Day parade in an African village, complete with camels and tall green hats. He also grew tomatoes among the rose bushes in the White House garden.
        He formed the Thomas E. Stephens ''art collection'' by sending paint-by-numbers art kits to top Republican politicians, then had the completed works hung in the White House. The collection included, among others, works by Nelson A. Rockefeller, Clare Booth Luce and even an original painting by President Eisenhower.
        President Eisenhower paid tribute to his appointment secretary for having kept him out of political hot water, and for his ''genius for breaking up a tense discussion with exactly the right comment.''
        A graduate of St. Lawrence University and Brooklyn Law School, Mr. Stephens began his political career after a friend asked him to distribute campaign literature in a New York City election. He was named an assistant corporation counsel in New York City in 1934 and in 1938 was chosen to serve as administrative assistant to Newbold Morris, President of the City Council. In 1946, he became the secretary to the Republic State Committee in New York.
        In World War II he served as a major in the Army Air Corps in Europe.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Stephens, of Clearwater.
      