
       James F. Macandrew, a pioneer in educational broadcasting who helped build New York City's public radio and television systems, died of a heart attack Friday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I.
        James F. Macandrew, a pioneer in educational broadcasting who helped build New York City's public radio and television systems, died of a heart attack Friday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I.
        When he retired as director of broadcasting for the city's Board of Education and of its station WNYE-TV in 1971, Mr. Macandrew won a special Emmy Award for 34 years in the vanguard of educational broadcasting.
        The Scottish-born Mr. Macandrew graduated from City College and Columbia University before entering the school system as an English teacher. He was assigned to Brooklyn Technical High School, where he impressed many with his flair for making literature come alive in the classroom.
        Most educators then saw little potential in radio as a teaching aid. Mr. Macandrew differed and in 1938 became coordinator of broadcasting for the school system. First Programs
        While campaigning for the Board of Eduation to have its own radio station, he wrote, produced, directed and often announced two daily 15-minute programs carried by WNYC, the city-owned station.
        After a year of this, the board got its station, WNYE, which switched from AM to FM two years later. Programming initially was hampered by a dearth of FM radios in the schools. Mr. Macandrew encountered a similar problem when he began educational programming on New York television a decade later.
        His in-school programs appeared on WPIX-TV, a commercial station, before shifting to what is now WNET and then to the UHF outlet, WNYE-TV. That station went on the air in 1967 over Channel 25, with Mayor John V. Lindsay as the host for one of the inaugural programs. A Teaching Series
        Over the years, Mr. Macandrew also directed a teaching series, ''The Living Blackboard,'' and moderated ''Camera Three,'' broadcast nationally by CBS.
        ''If the airwaves can tempt us to laugh and to dance,'' Mr. Macandrew once said, ''they can also tempt as to think.''
        He is survived by his wife, the former Catharine Schenck; a son, Peter F., of Miami; two daughters, Elizabeth Gail Macandrew of Manhattan and Bonnie Anne Rosenblatt of Baltimore; a sister, Olive Schenck of Darien, Conn., and two grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Garden City Community Church.
      