
       Ralph Lazarus, a scion of one of the country's great merchant families who retired in 1982 as chairman of Federated Department Stores, died Saturday in his sleep at home in Cincinnati after a long illness. He was 74 years old.
        Ralph Lazarus, a scion of one of the country's great merchant families who retired in 1982 as chairman of Federated Department Stores, died Saturday in his sleep at home in Cincinnati after a long illness. He was 74 years old.
        Federated, a holding company based in Cincinnati, was originally pieced together in the 1920's by Mr. Lazarus's father, Fred Jr. Ralph Lazarus succeeded his father as president in 1957, by which time Federated had become the largest department-store company in the nation.
        His father served as chairman for 10 more years and held other positions in the parent company until his death in 1973.
        Federated's many divisions included such prominent chains as Abraham & Straus, Bloomingdale's, Bullock's, Filene's and Foley's, all of them leading merchandisers in the United States. Bought Out by Campeau
        More recently, the Lazarus family no longer held a large stake in Federated. It was still the largest department store chain in the country when it was bought out just weeks ago by the Campeau Corporation of Canada. Since then, the Toronto retailer and real-estate company has been ''streamlining'' operations, dismissing personnel and spinning off sizable chunks of Federated assets to pay off debts incurred in its takeover campaign.
        Among the units sold off so far are the 80-year-old Filene's fashion stores and 22 Filene's Basement stores, Bullock's and I. Magnin. Some of them now are part of R. H. Macy & Company, a rival that itself had wooed Federated but was thwarted in a bidding war despite an earlier merger agreement with its directors.
        The original Lazarus store, a tiny clothing shop in Columbus, Ohio, was opened in 1851 by Fred Jr.'s grandfather, Simon, an immigrant from Prussia. He, with his six daughters and sons pitching in, laid the groundwork for the rapid expansion that began the family fortunes in the 1860's. Active at Dartmouth
        Ralph, namesake of one of the founder's sons, was born to Fred and Meta Lazarus in Columbus on Jan. 30, 1914. He was a 1935 graduate of Dartmouth College, where he was a trustee for more than 15 years and had remained active since his retirement. He also kept a hand in Cincinnati's civic affairs in recent years.
        Following his graduation, Mr. Lazarus became vice president and general merchandise manager of F. & R. Lazarus & Company. He remained with the original family business until 1951, with time out in World War II for service with a commission in the United States Army Air Forces.
        He moved into the headquarters of Federated Department Stores in Cincinnati in 1951 as executive vice president, succeeded to the presidency in 1957 and served as chairman from 1967 until his retirement 15 years later.
        Aside from his interest in Dartmouth and local affairs, Mr. Lazarus was long active in the national United Way, which his family helped found and lead.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gladys Kleeman; two sons, John, of San Francisco, and James, of San Antonio; two brothers, Fred 3d, of Cincinnati, and Maurice, of Boston, and several grandchildren.
        The funeral will be at 2 P.M. Tuesday at the Plum Street Temple in Cincinnati.
      