
       Wilford Leach, a director acclaimed for his witty stagings of Shakespeare in Central Park and the winner of a Tony Award for his work on the 1986 Broadway musical ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' died Saturday at his home in Rocky Point, L.I. He was 59 years old.
        Wilford Leach, a director acclaimed for his witty stagings of Shakespeare in Central Park and the winner of a Tony Award for his work on the 1986 Broadway musical ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' died Saturday at his home in Rocky Point, L.I. He was 59 years old.
        Joseph Papp, for whom Mr. Leach worked at the New York Shakespeare Festival and the Public Theater, said that Mr. Leach had died of stomach cancer.
        Mr. Leach directed 21 productions at the Public Theater. Though he did not make his Broadway debut until 1980, he had by then earned a reputation for ingenuity as both director and playwright with experimental works that he staged at La Mama and at the Public, and with the drama classes he taught at Sarah Lawrence College..
        One of his trademarks was a childlike sense of the unexpected. Whether he was staging a revival of Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Pirates of Penzance'' with a rock band and a Keystone Kops-like chorus of policemen, or Shakespeare's ''Twelfth Night'' set in 16th-century Yugoslavia, he projected the sense that what was serious did not have to be solemn and that what was real did not have to be realistic. 'Could Have Been a Physicist'
        ''He had one of the most extraordinary minds I've ever known; so clear in how he understood things,'' Mr. Papp said. ''He could have been a superb physicicst if he hadn't chosen the route of the theater. He designed his own scenery and was quite a Renaissance person. My theater suffers a great loss artistically, aside from the human aspect of his being gone.''
        Mr. Leach approached his work as a director with the belief that actors were on stage not to carry out his ideas, but to express their own. In that spirit, he opened the rehearsals of ''The Pirates of Penzance'' in 1980 by telling the cast members to forget whatever they already knew about Gilbert and Sullivan and think of ''Pirates'' as a brand-new piece. The cast included the rock singers Linda Ronstadt and Rex Smith, the British actors George Rose and Patricia Routledge and the Tony Award-winning American actor Kevin Kline, but Mr. Leach seemed unconcerned by the mixture of backgrounds.
        ''What I need to do is create the atmosphere where they will feel free,'' he said during ''Pirates,'' noting that some of the cleverest bits in the show had their origins in rehearsal antics. ''If people aren't editing themselves, things happen spontaneously, and if it works, you can use it. The important thing is that it should all be fun. You want to restore that time when you first fell in love with the theater.''
        For Mr. Leach, that moment happened when he was a 17-year-old student at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va. The play -the first he had ever seen - was George Bernard Shaw's ''Pygmalion.'' It was enough to settle the question of what he wanted to do in life. Joined College Faculty
        Mr. Leach had no ambition to act, however, and after graduating from William and Mary in 1953 and then earning his master's degree and doctorate from the University of Illinois, he joined the faculty of Sarah Lawrence College in 1958. He also taught at the Yale University School of Drama in 1978 and 1979.
        One of his plays, ''In 3 Zones,'' which was inspired by Brecht and by Grimm Brothers' fairy tales, was scheduled at the Lincoln Center Repertory Theater in 1967. But it was dropped before it was staged, and years later it still rankled.
        ''I was so dismayed by my one contact with the professional theater world that I decided I never wanted to work there again,'' he recalled in 1980. ''I'm no good at self-promotion. I decided I would stay at teaching.''
        Three years later, though, Mr. Leach met Ellen Stewart, the head of the experimental theater company La Mama, and eventually became the company's artistic director. His work at La Mama included such acclaimed musical pieces as ''Carmilla,'' about two vampires, and ''C.O.R.F.A.X. (Don't Ask),'' about a tribe of humanoids who invade middle America and camp out in a veterinarian's office. Mr. Leach refused to define ''C.O.R.F.A.X.,'' beyond saying that it was ''an abbreviation for words that must never be spoken.''
        After working as an associate director on the 1977 production of ''Henry V'' in Central Park, Mr. Leach formed a new workshop at the Public Theater and staged Wallace Shawn's ''Mandrake.'' Mr. Leach subsequently became the principal director of the New York Shakespeare Festival.
        He won a Tony Award in 1986 for his work on ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood,'' a loose adaptation of an unfinished Dickens novel. It was his second Tony; his first, in 1981, was for ''Pirates of Penzance.'' Among his other awards were Obies in 1972 and 1981 and, also in 1981, a Drama Desk Award.
      