
       Jack Moore, a founder of Dance Theater Workshop and a dancer, choreographer, teacher and artist, died of lung cancer last Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Jack Moore, a founder of Dance Theater Workshop and a dancer, choreographer, teacher and artist, died of lung cancer last Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Born in Monticello, Ind., Mr. Moore studied jazz and tap dancing and baton twirling at a local school. He served in World War II and graduated from the University of Iowa. While at college, he worked in the theater and was offered a scholarship to the summer dance course run by Hanya Holm at the University of Colorado. Danced with Graham Troupe
        In 1949, Mr. Moore came to New York to study dance, and served as assistant to Louis Horst in Mr. Horst's noted composition course. Mr. Moore also studied with Doris Humphrey and at the School of American Ballet. He performed with the dance companies of Martha Graham, Merce Cunningham and Anna Sokolow.
        Mr. Moore made his debut as a choreographer in 1951 at the 92d Street Y. Nine years later, he received the first Doris Humphrey Fellowship for choreography at Connecticut College. He was known for the Dadaist humor of his dances, and for their mystical calm and logic.
        He taught at the Neighborhood Playhouse, Juilliard School, Connecticut College, University of California at Los Angeles and Adelphi University. Mr. Moore was on the dance faculty of Bennington College from 1961 to 1985. Showcase for the Modern
        Mr. Moore founded Dance Theater Workshop in 1965, with Jeff Duncan and Art Bauman. A free-wheeling place for experimentation, Dance Theater Workshop was one of the first dance institutions in the city to provide extended engagements to new modern dance talents. Mr. Moore was also a fabric collagist whose work is in the permanent collection of the Brooklyn Museum.
        His companion of 30 years was Bob Van Cleave. Mr. Moore is survived by his brother, Roger, of Atlanta.
      