
       Murray J. Rossant, a veteran journalist who for the last two decades headed the Twentieth Century Fund, a public-policy research foundation, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 65 years old.
        Murray J. Rossant, a veteran journalist who for the last two decades headed the Twentieth Century Fund, a public-policy research foundation, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 65 years old.
        The fund was founded after World War I by Edward A. Filene of the Boston department store family. Mr. Rossant guided it into new and sometimes controversial directions as he sought to expand its influence in the policy-making process.
        He was a major force in promoting televised Presidential debates and in analyzing the financing of election campaigns. Task forces set up by the fund helped to establish a bipartisan commission for Presidential debates.
        Mr. Rossant spurred the formation in 1972 of the National News Council, an organization that sought to monitor the performance of newspapers, television news organizations, wire services and other news media. The council received a chilly reception from major news organizations, and it disbanded in 1983. Innovative Gesture
        Mr. Rossant was also the initiator of what he called a ''civic responsibility'' gesture, making annual payments to New York City to defray the cost of municipal services that the fund, as a tax-exempt organization, receives free of charge. He hoped that the gesture would be widely copied, but it was not.
        Mr. Rossant, who was born in Manhattan and was a graduate of Swarthmore College, was known through most of his life as M.J. Even his close friends did not know what the ''J'' stood for, and he seemed to enjoy the aura of mystery. Yesterday his wife, the former Diane Kemelman, said Mr. Rossant's middle name was Joseph.
        Mr. Rossant worked as a financial columnist and editorial writer for The New York Times from 1958 until 1967.
        He began his journalistic career as a clerk at The Times and at The Philadelphia Bulletin before becoming a contributing editor of Time magazine in 1944. Five years later he went to study at the London School of Economics, returning in 1953 to begin a nine-year stint with Business Week. When he left to work for The Times in 1961, he was the magazine's senior editor in charge of financial coverage.
        At Business Week Mr. Rossant had a reputation for running his department with an iron hand, but he was gregarious and enjoyed good food, fine wines and wide-ranging conversation. Always a hard-driving reporter and prolific writer, he often grated on the sensibilities of his superiors but had a knack for getting the story his way. Expensive Call to Rio
        On one occasion, after the stock market dive of 1962, he tracked down a principal market figure who had gone to Brazil. He asked a tight-fisted editor at The Times to let him fly to Rio de Janeiro, getting permission only after the editor was informed that Mr. Rossant had spent 184 minutes talking on the telephone to Rio, at $4 a minute.
        Over the years Mr. Rossant wrote, principally on economic subjects, for many publications in the United States and abroad, including Esquire, Fortune, Harper's, The Reporter, The Financial Times and The Spectator. Since 1970 he served as New York correspondent for The Economist of London, continuing to contribute until shortly before his death.
        He also taught at the University of Wisconsin School of Banking for a decade beginning in 1958 and lectured at Columbia, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Yale, Harvard, Williams, New York University and the University of Chicago.
        In addition to his wife, who is the administrative assistant corporation counsel for New York City, Mr. Rossant is survived by a son, John, of Paris, and a daughter, Anne, of Manhattan.
        A funeral service will be held at noon tomorrow at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      