
       John Bartlow Martin, the author, speechwriter and confidant of Democratic politicans who also served as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, died Saturday of throat cancer at Highland Park Hospital in Highland Park, Ill. Mr. Martin, who had lived in the area for more than 40 years, was 71 years old.
        John Bartlow Martin, the author, speechwriter and confidant of Democratic politicans who also served as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, died Saturday of throat cancer at Highland Park Hospital in Highland Park, Ill. Mr. Martin, who had lived in the area for more than 40 years, was 71 years old.
        Mr. Martin, whose peripatetic career took him to coalfields in Illinois, racially divided Southern communities, the treacherous political byways of the Caribbean and aboard presidential campaign planes, produced 15 books and scores of prize-winning articles for America's leading magazines.
        Equally at home in the worlds of politics and diplomacy, he served as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic from 1962 to 1964 under President John F. Kennedy. Mr. Martin held that post during great instability and political change on the island nation.
        Mr. Martin also lent his political skills and talent for choosing words to the presidential campaigns of Adlai E. Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy and Hubert H. Humphrey. He was, in the words of one book reviewer, ''a devoutly liberal Democrat, unabashed and unregenerate.''
        A modest, bespectacled man whose diffidence belied great intensity, Mr. Martin established himself as one of America's premier seekers of fact in a writing career that spanned almost 50 years. Praised as a Reporter
        ''The best living reporter'' and ''the ablest crime reporter in America'' were among the superlatives editors and critics applied to Mr. Martin.
        Yet Mr. Martin's sympathies echoed through many of his works, which focused on people cast off or forgotten by society: criminals, prisoners, the troubled, the hurt and the powerless.
        Asked once to define the common denominator of his writing, Mr. Martin said: ''I've always been interested in the individual human being and what happens to him in a society that really doesn't work as well as it should. Sounds kinds of pretentious, but I think it's so.''
        John Bartlow Martin was born Aug. 4, 1915, in Hamilton, Ohio, the son of a carpenter who never finished high school. The family moved to Indianapolis where Mr. Martin lived what he said was an unhappy childhood, marked by the death of a brother and parental disputes. 'Dark' Childhood Memories
        ''Many seem to regard the years of their youth as the easiest years of their lives,'' Mr. Martin wrote in ''It Seemed Like Only Yesterday,'' his recently published memoirs. ''Most of my childhood memories are dark.''
        Mr. Martin became interested in modern literature in high school, and after graduating at the age of 16 he entered DePauw University where he was expelled before the end of the year for drinking in his room.
        He began his journalistic career as a $9-a-week ''gofer'' in the Indianapolis bureau of the Associated Press. He later went on to graduate from DePauw where he edited the school paper and wrote for the Indianapolis Times.
        With a check for $175, the profits from his first freelance magazine article, Mr. Martin moved to Chicago with one suitcase, a portable typewriter and a desire to write.
        After several years divided between writing for pulp detective magazines, more serious journals and service in the army, Mr. Martin established his national reputation with an article for Harper's magazine about an explosion at a mine in Centralia, Ill., that killed about 100 people. The article, which at 18,500 words was the longest in the magazine's history, helped lead to a new Federal mine safety code. 'A Million Words a Year'
        Several articles and books followed and Mr. Martin's name became a familiar site on the cover of the great mass-circulation magazines of the 1940's and 1950's: The Saturday Evening Post, Life, Look, Collier's, and The Atlantic.
        ''When I hit my stride,'' Mr. Martin recalled in his memoirs, ''I was writing a million words a year,'' producing long drafts at his home outside Chicago or in a cabin in the woods of upper Michigan.
        Mr. Martin turned to politics in 1952 when he was hired by Governor Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois as one of his ''Elks,'' a team of writers and advisers named because of their offices at the Elks Club in Springfield, Ill.
        Mr. Martin specialized in advance reportage and the short, stump speech. ''No one then, and I think none since, could make a point more succinctly, support it more sharply with evidence and then, of all things, stop,'' wrote John Kenneth Galbraith of Mr. Martin's skill.
        After working for the Stevenson Presidential campaign in 1956 and the Kennedy Presidential campaign in 1960, Mr. Martin was appointed Ambassador to the Dominican Republic by President Kennedy.
        He arrived after the assassination of the dictator, Rafael Trujillo Molina, and witnessed that nation's first democratic elections. So close was he to the new writer-president, Juan Bosch, that when Mr. Bosch was ousted in a military coup Dominicans joked that Mr. Martin had been overthrown, too.
        Shortly after President Kennedy was assassinated, Mr. Martin resigned. He returned to the Dominican Republic in 1965 as a special envoy when President Lyndon Johnson dispatched United States troops there.
        In addition to his speechwriting and books from his magazine work, Mr. Martin was also the author of the 800-page biography, ''The Life of Adlai E. Stevenson,'' a book about American policy in the Caribbean and a political novel.
        Mr. Martin is survived by his wife, Frances; a daughter, Cynthia Coleman of Philadelphia, and two sons, Daniel B. and John Frederick, both of Washington.
        Private services will be held.
      