
       Gerald Brenan, a British author who wrote on Spanish history and culture, has died of heart failure, his doctor said today. He was 92 years old.
        Gerald Brenan, a British author who wrote on Spanish history and culture, has died of heart failure, his doctor said today. He was 92 years old.
        The physician, Dr. Francisco Burgos, said Mr. Brenan died Jan. 16 in Alhaurin el Grande, the town where the writer had lived for decades in Malaga Province in Andalusia. Dr. Burgos said Mr. Brenan had been bedridden for six months.
        One of Mr. Brenan's best-known books, ''The Spanish Labyrinth,'' is considered an authoritative work on the social, economic and political events leading to the Spanish Civil War.
        He lived in Alhaurin el Grande at the outbreak of the war and was a foreign correspondent during the conflict. Son of an Army Officer
        Born in Malta on April 7, 1894, Mr. Brenan, the son of a British Army officer, joined the army and rose to the rank of captain.
        He left Britain in 1919 to become a writer in Spain. In London, he had been associated with the Bloomsbury literary group that included his friends Virginia Woolf, D. H. Lawrence and Bertrand Russell.
        Initally, he lived in the Anadalusian village of Yegen, but he moved to Alhaurin el Grande after marrying the American poet Gamel Woosley in 1931. She died in 1967.
        Among his other works are ''South From Grenada,'' which tells of his years in Yegen; ''The Literature of the Spanish People,'' which covers the period from Roman times to the 20th century; ''Personal Record,'' an autobiography, and ''A Holiday by the Sea,'' a novel. A Brief Return Home
        He returned to London to live in a rest home in 1984, but he went back to Alhaurin el Grande three months later after a public campaign in Spain for his return.
        After returning, the Andalusian regional government paid his expenses in honor of his work.
        In February 1985, a group of Spanish and foreign historians joined the city of Malaga in setting up the Gerald Brenan Foundation to foster the study of his work.
        GERALD BRENAN DIES
      