
       Martin Erdmann, a former Manhattan Criminal Court judge and former trial lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, died of heart failure Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and was 72 years old.
        Martin Erdmann, a former Manhattan Criminal Court judge and former trial lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, died of heart failure Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and was 72 years old.
        Judge Erdmann was sworn in as a Criminal Court Judge on May 31, 1978, by Mayor Koch. He retired from the bench two years ago and entered private practice.
        An editorial in the May 19, 1978 edition of The New York Times praised Mr. Erdmann's nomination as ''a quality appointment,'' and described him as ''a skilled old hand of the criminal trial bar.''
        Before taking his seat on the bench, Mr. Erdmann served from 1946 to 1977 as an attorney in the criminal defense division of the Legal Aid Society, a private organization under contract to the city to represent indigent defendants in the city's courts. He was the Attorney-in-Chief for the division.
        ''The only reason I'm any good is because I have an ego. I like to win,'' he said in a March 12, 1971, interview in Life magazine in which he was critical of judges, some of whom he likened to ''whores who become madams.''
        The comment followed him throughout his career, and was recalled by his critics at the time of his nomination to the bench by Mayor Koch. When questioned about his remark on judges, Mr. Erdmann said he did not use the term ''in a literal sense, but as a metaphor.''
        In the same controversial Life article, which described him as brilliant and cynical, he was further quoted as saying he would like to become a judge ''just to see if I could be the kind of judge I think a judge should be.''
        A graduate of Dartmouth College and Yale Law School, Mr. Erdmann was admitted to the bar in 1939.
        He is survived by a nephew, Walter Barnett of Naples, Fla.
      