
       Philip Young, the chairman of the Civil Service Commission in the first Eisenhower Administration and a former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, died of a heart attack Thursday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia.
        Philip Young, the chairman of the Civil Service Commission in the first Eisenhower Administration and a former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, died of a heart attack Thursday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia.
        He was 76 years old and had residences in Van Hornesville, N.Y., and Great Falls, Va.
        Mr. Young became dean of the business school in 1948, the year Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower was named to head Columbia University. As President, Eisenhower made Mr. Young his personnel manager with Cabinet rank soon after his inauguration in 1953.
        In early 1957, Mr. Young left the Civil Service Commission post, after making headlines for administering an order to rid the bureaucracy of suspected subversives. A Republican, he was given a political appointment by Eisenhower as Ambassador to the Netherlands, a post he held through 1960.
        Mr. Young then became executive director of the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce. He quit that post in October 1965 to be a private consultant.
        Philip Young was born May 9, 1910, in Lexington, Mass., one of six children of Owen D. Young and the former Josephine Sheldon Edmonds. His father was author of the Young Plan for Germany's reparations after World War I. He also was the longtime chairman of the General Electric Company who launched the Radio Corporation of America.
        The son graduated from the Choate School, St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., and the Harvard School of Business Administration, earning an M.B.A. degree in 1933. After a stint as a Harvard researcher in business history, he became a business economist at the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. Early Years in Government
        In 1938, Mr. Young moved to the Treasury, working as a special assistant arranging the sale of American military hardware abroad. When the Lend-Lease system of arms deliveries was assigned to the Office of Emergency Management, he transferred there before moving on to a newly created Office of Lend-Lease Administration in 1941. He finished his wartime service as a Navy lieutenant commander assigned to the Supply Corps.
        He was a business executive when Columbia made him dean of its business school. While he headed the school, founded in 1916, it began to require bachelor's degrees for admission, thus becoming today's Graduate School of Business. It also opened its advanced classes to women.
        At the Civil Service Commission, Mr. Young was credited with modernizing its operations. He also imposed Eisenhower's executive order 10450 of May 1953 designed to ferret out bureaucrats accused or suspected of subversive leanings.
        In the election campaigns of 1954, Vice President Richard M. Nixon toured the country speaking of security-loyalty lists with many thousands of such suspects hired by the Truman Adminstration. This stirred countercharges that the Republicans were playing ''numbers games'' with inflated figures to smear the Democrats. Republicans Conceded Points
        By 1955, the Democrats hit back, and Mr. Young conceded that the numbers were less dramatic and that a good percentage of the suspects were recruited under Eisenhower. It also appeared that some of those purported security risks in sensitive positions had been fired for far more mundane transgressions.
        Partisan acrimony boiled over when it became known that the Administration's security watchdogs were keeping files even on members of Congress. Mr. Young personally came under fire in Senate hearings when, asked to identify disloyal civil servants on his lists, he responded, ''We wouldn't have any names. We just deal in numbers.''
        Over the years, Mr. Young served as trustee or director of many institutions, including St. Lawrence University, Choate, the Edison Institute, the Netherlands-America Foundation, of which he was a past president, and Project Hope, where he was chairman of the board.
        Mr. Young is survived by his third wife, the former Diana Morgan, whom he married in 1982; two daughters from his first marriage, Faith, now Mrs. William D. Carmichael, of Greenwich, Conn., and Shirley, now Mrs. Walter E. Adams of Reston, Va.; a brother, Richard, and a sister, Josephine Y. Case, both of Van Hornesville, near Cooperstown, N.Y.; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        Mr. Young's first wife, the former Faith Adams, died in 1963. His second wife, the former Esther Sarah Whitmey was the widow of Sir Richard Fairey, a British aviation pioneer. She died in 1978.
        A memorial service will be held Jan. 24 at 2 P.M. at the Universalist National Memorial Church in Washington.
        PHILIP YOUNG IS DEAD AT 76
      