
       Charles E. Goodell, who shifted from establishment Republican to critic of the Vietnam War and the Nixon White House as he moved from the House of Representatives to representing New York in the United States Senate, died yesterday in Washington. He was 60 years old and had been a Washington lawyer and lobbyist for the last 16 years.
        Charles E. Goodell, who shifted from establishment Republican to critic of the Vietnam War and the Nixon White House as he moved from the House of Representatives to representing New York in the United States Senate, died yesterday in Washington. He was 60 years old and had been a Washington lawyer and lobbyist for the last 16 years.
        Mr. Goodell, appointed to the Senate in 1968 by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to succeed Robert F. Kennedy after his assassination, served only two years in the Senate, but he emerged as a leading critic of the Vietnam War and as a result, a leading target of President Richard M. Nixon and Vice President Spiro T. Agnew.
        Mr. Goodell joined liberal Democrats in sponsoring legislation to cut off money for the war effort, legislation that was essentially adopted five years later after he had left Congress.
        Before his appointment to the Senate he was a moderate to conservative member of the House of Representatives from Jamestown in western New York State. 'Radical Liberal'
        Two years later and now a liberal Republican with Mr. Agnew publicly castigating him as a ''radical liberal'' and even Mr. Rockefeller publicly questioning his ''undercutting'' of the President, Mr. Goodell sought a full six-year term.
        He failed largely because he split the moderate to liberal vote with Representative Richard L. Ottinger of Westchester, a Democrat, permitting James L. Buckley, running on the Conservative Party line, to win the Senate seat with less than a majority.
        Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, referred to the heat and emotions of that campaign and that time when he said yesterday that Mr. Goodell was ''called to public service at a time of travail and tragedy.'' He added that ''I have not known a finer member of Congress.''
        ''He fell on his sword politically,'' said a former aide, Michael C. Smith, a former city official and now a vice president of E. F. Hutton & Company.
        Another former aide, George Mitrovich, who had also worked for Mr. Kennedy, noted that there had been considerable criticism of the Goodell appointment originally because he was not a statewide figure but that Mr. Goodell proved to be ''a worthy successor of Senator Kennedy.'' One of 'Young Turks'
        As a member of the House for 10 years, he had been part of a group of Republican ''young Turks'' who helped oust Charles A. Halleck as House Republican leader and elect Gerald R. Ford as the new Republican leader.
        Later, Mr. Ford appointed him chairman of the Presidential Clemency Board, which reviewed in 1976 clemency applications by 21,729 Vietnam War resisters, including many who had fled to Canada and other countries to avoid conscription.
        After leaving the Senate and practicing law in New York Ciy for two years, Mr. Goodell became chairman of the board of DGA International, a public relations and lobbying concern.
        His second wife, Patricia Goldman, was another continuing link to government. She is vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board.
        Mr. Goodell was born and raised in Jamestown and was a varsity baseball and fooball player at both Jamestown High School and Williams College, where he was also elected to Phi Beta Kappa, the national honorary society. He graduated from Yale Law School and received a master's degree at the Yale Graduate School of Government.
        He first went to Washington in 1954 as a Congressional liaison assistant at the Justice Department and then returned to Jamestown to practice law and eventually become the Chautauqua County Republican chairman in 1958. A year later, following the death of the veteran Representative Daniel A. Reed, he won a House seat in a special election.
        Survivors, in addition to his wife, include five sons, William R., Timothy B., Roger S., Michael C. and Jeffrey H. A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow in Washington. The funeral and burial will be in Jamestown, but plans were incomplete yesterday.
      