
       Aram A. Avakian, a film editor and educator who directed the graphic and unsettling 1970 film ''End of the Road,'' died of heart failure early Saturday morning at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        Aram A. Avakian, a film editor and educator who directed the graphic and unsettling 1970 film ''End of the Road,'' died of heart failure early Saturday morning at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Avakian was born in New York on April 23, 1926. After graduating from the Horace Mann School and Yale University, he served in the Navy and then lived for several years in Paris, during which time he attended the Sorbonne. He returned to New York in 1953 and was apprenticed to the cinematographer and photographer Gjon Mili.
        From 1955 through 1958, Mr. Avakian edited Edward R. Murrow's television news program ''See It Now,'' and in 1958 edited and, with Bert Stern, co-directed ''Jazz on a Summer's Day,'' credited as the first feature-film documentary of a music festival.
        Mr. Avakian edited the 1960 feature film ''Girl of the Night,'' directed by Joseph Cates and acknowledged for its early use of the freeze frame and the jump cut. Mr. Avakian also edited ''Sin of Jesus'' (a 1960 film directed by Robert Frank), ''The Miracle Worker'' (1962, Arthur Penn), ''O.K., End Here'' (1963, Mr. Frank), ''Lilith'' (1963, Robert Rossen) and ''Mickey One'' (1964, Mr. Penn). The last major film he edited was the 1979 movie ''Honeysuckle Rose,'' directed by Jerry Schatzberg. Making 'End of the Road'
        In 1970, Mr. Avakian converted an abandoned textile factory in Great Barrington, Mass., into a makeshift studio for the filming of ''End of the Road,'' adapted by the director with the novelist Terry Southern from the 1958 John Barth novel.
        The cast included Stacy Keach, James Earl Jones and Dorothy Tristan, who was married to Mr. Avakian at the time. The film was noted for its graphic depiction of an abortion and received an X rating. But it had subtler attributes, as well. ''The precise truth of, say, 5 in a summer afternoon on the lawn of an assistant professor in a small country college has perhaps never been caught in a commercial movie before - but that is the kind of precise truth this movie captures again and again,'' wrote Roger Greenspun in his review of the movie in The New York Times.
        Mr. Avakian directed the 1973 comedy ''Cops and Robbers'' and the 1974 film ''11 Harrow House.''
        From 1983 through 1986, Mr. Avakian headed the film program and taught directing and screenwriting at the State University College at Purchase. He also served on the faculty of the International Film Workshop.
        Mr. Avakian's longtime companion was the former ballerina Allegra Kent.
        He is survived by a daughter, Alexandra, a son, Tristan, and a brother, George, all of Manhattan.
        A memorial service is to be held at 6 P.M. next Thursday at St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral, 630 Second Avenue, near 35th Street.
      