
       Harold Eliot Krents, whose struggle to overcome blindness and become independent was the inspiration for the Broadway play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died of a brain tumor yesterday at the Calvary Hospital Hospice in the Bronx. He was 42 years old and lived in Washington.
        Harold Eliot Krents, whose struggle to overcome blindness and become independent was the inspiration for the Broadway play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died of a brain tumor yesterday at the Calvary Hospital Hospice in the Bronx. He was 42 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Krentz was 9 years old when doctors told him he would be totally blind.
        ''I bawled my head off,'' he recalled in a 1970 interview in Life magazine. ''But I remember lying in bed that night and growing up. I knew I had to grow up or fold up - to be dependent or independent.''
        He went on to earn law degrees at Harvard Law School and University College of Oxford University and work both in government and private practice to help others.
        In ''Butterflies Are Free,'' which opened in 1968, the playwright Leonard Gershe dramatized the story of a blind youth's winning independence while living alone in New York. Autobiography Was Filmed
        In 1972, Putnam's published Mr. Krents's autobiography, ''To Race the Wind,'' which tells of his understanding parents, their encouragement of his fierce independence and the number of activities in which he was able to take part. The book was later made into a feature film for television.
        Mr. Krents, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from Scarsdale High School in 1963, from Harvard College, cum laude, in 1967, and from Harvard Law School in 1970. In 1974 he spent a year at Oxford University in England and received a law degree from University College. He passed the New York bar examination and went on to work for the Washington-based law firm of Surrey, Karasik & Morse, now Surrey & Morse, a firm involved in defending the rights of the disabled.
        In 1980 he became a White House Fellow, assigned to Patricia Roberts Harris, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Earlier he had been a member of the President's Committee on Employment of the Handicapped. Most recently, from September 1985 to January 1986, he was a consultant to the Vera Institute of Justice.
        Mr. Krents was a supporter of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act passed by Congress, an act intended to protect the legal rights and employment of the handicapped.
        In 1975 Mr. Krents founded Mainstream Inc., a nonprofit group that promotes the legal rights of the disabled. It joined with a computer concern, Information Science Inc. of Montvale, N.J., to build up a data bank of 20,000 agencies assisting the disabled.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Williams, and three sons, James, William and Michael, all of Washington; his parents, Irma and Milton Krents of Manhattan; a brother, Lawrence, of Armonk, N.Y., and a sister, Elisabeth Zuckerwise of Manhattan.
        A funeral service will be held Thursday at 1 P.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
        HAROLD KRENTS, LAWYER, DIES  Correction:  January 14, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      