
       William M. Judd, a manager of major classical musicians for more than 40 years, died of heart failure yesterday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 70 years old.
        William M. Judd, a manager of major classical musicians for more than 40 years, died of heart failure yesterday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Judd came from a family of musical managers. His father, George E. Judd, spent four decades with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the last two as manager. His older brother, George E. Judd Jr., was managing director of the New York Philharmonic from 1959 to 1962. William Judd also began his New York musical career with the Philharmonic, after seasons with the Berkshire Music Festival (Tanglewood) and the North Shore Players summer theater.
        In 1939 he began an association with Columbia Artists Management Inc., or CAMI, that was to last 30 years. In 1947, he rose to the position of having his name added to the title of his division, the Judson, O'Neill and Judd division, which he shared with Arthur Judson and Ruth O'Neill. During his years at Columbia he was involved with many of the concern's most prominent artists, notably Jascha Heifetz, Rudolf Serkin, William Kepell, Van Cliburn, Andre Watts, George London, Anna Moffo, Lily Pons, Richard Tucker, Eleanor Steber and Claudio Arrau.
        He also established a subsidiary, Columbia Festivals, to book arena shows. Among his early presentations were the Spanish Riding School of Vienna and the Household Cavalry Queen's Guards Tattoo. Major orchestral tours, including the New York Philharmonic's first summer tour in 1960 with Leonard Bernstein, were also handled by Mr. Judd. His other projects ranged from the touring arm of the NBC Opera in the 1950's to pops concerts with the New York Philharmonic. Established Own Office
        In 1969, by which time he was executive vice president and chairman of the executive committee at CAMI, Mr. Judd surprised observers in the music world by leaving the concern to establish his own concert office. ''Personalized guidance of artists' careers,'' he told an interviewer at the time, is ''the most important aspect of my profession, and unfortunately there is increasingly little room for it in this day of conglomerate corporate structures and mass bookings.''
        He took with him Mr. Watts and Mr. Serkin. The latter continues to be represented by the Judd Concert Bureau, along with the pianist Earl Wild and other musicians. Mr. Heifetz also came to Mr. Judd for representation in his later years; the well-known Heifetz-Piatigorsky chamber-music concerts in the late 1960's and early 1970's were among his projects, as was Mr. Heifetz's first excursion into television, carried out in France.
        Mr. Judd was born in Neston, Mass., on Aug. 8, 1916, and grew up in Boston. He graduated from Harvard in 1938. He is survived by a nephew, George M. Judd of New York City.
      