
       Dr. Ramon Castroviejo, a Spanish-born pioneering eye-surgeon who worked and taught in New York for most of his career, died Thursday in a Madrid hospital after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Spanish capital since his retirement in 1972.
        Dr. Ramon Castroviejo, a Spanish-born pioneering eye-surgeon who worked and taught in New York for most of his career, died Thursday in a Madrid hospital after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Spanish capital since his retirement in 1972.
        Dr. Castroviejo was an early developer of techniques for transplanting corneal tissue from the eyes of those who had just died to damaged eyes of the living. His method was to insert a rectangular-shaped ''window'' into the cornea.
        The surgeon described this technique in 1937 to the American College of Surgeons at a meeting in Chicago. He contended that rectangular windows gave better results than the circular ones that had been tried earlier, since their edges could be fitted better to merge with and become a living part of the rest of the eye.
        He also said all the cornea transplants previously ''reported in medical history'' had been failures. These borrowed eye coverings, he said, ultimately became opaque. Urged Eye Donations
        Later that year he announced a method of gilding or platinizing corneas to improve vision. He described the effect as purely chemical. In 1938 he urged people throughout the United States to will their eyes to science to restore the eyesight of others. The idea resulted in the creation of present-day eye banks.
        In 1935 Dr. Castroviejo transplanted the cornea of the eye of a stillborn baby to the eye of Fremont Clark, national director for the State of Iowa of the National Federation of Progressive Sightless. The operation was relatively rare at the time, but Dr. Castroviejo repeated it hundreds of times later on.
        Until his retirement, Dr. Castroviejo had his home, office and a small hospital in a landmark six-story mansion at 9 East 91st Street. He also became chief of ophthalmology at St. Vincent's Hospital in 1953 and, over the years, served as consultant director of corneal surgery at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, consultant to St. Clare's Hospital, attending surgeon at Mount Sinai Hospital and Bellevue Hospital and New York University Medical Center, and clinical professor at Mount Sinai Medical School.
        Born in Spain, he came to the United States soon after his graduation in 1927 from the medical school of the University of Madrid. From 1931 until 1952, he was associated with Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.
        He also had been a research fellow at the Mayo Clinic and Columbia University, an instructor and assistant clinical professor at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia and clinical professor of ophthalmology at the New York University Post-Graduate Medical School.
        Dr. Castroviejo was the recipient of many honors and decorations and the author of about 250 articles in medical journals.
        He is survived by a son, Christopher Ramon Castroviejo of Manhattan; a daughter, Alix Cynthia Artacho, whose husband, Emilio, is the Spanish Ambassador in Geneva; a sister, Teresa Angelines of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      