
       Lester Trimble, a composer, critic and music teacher, died Wednesday afternoon of heart failure. The 63-year-old composer, who had had a heart condition, collapsed shortly after noon in a restaurant on Broadway and was dead on arrival at Roosevelt Hospital.
        Lester Trimble, a composer, critic and music teacher, died Wednesday afternoon of heart failure. The 63-year-old composer, who had had a heart condition, collapsed shortly after noon in a restaurant on Broadway and was dead on arrival at Roosevelt Hospital.
        Mr. Trimble composed symphonies, chamber works, operas and songs. He received honors and commissions from symphony orchestras, foundations and music societies.
        Mr. Trimble's Symphony No. 3, ''The Tricentennial,'' commissioned for the City of Albany's 300th year, was given its premier performance last September by the Albany Symphony Orchestra. Last January he received an honorary doctorate from St. John's University at its commencement, for which he composed the processional music.
        Among his best-known compositions are his Second Symphony (1968), which is based entirely on elements from a single lyrical theme, and a series of works he called ''panels,'' which are for diverse instrumental ensembles. Trained at Carnegie Tech
        Born in Bangor, Wis., on Aug. 29, 1923, Mr. Trimble's musical training was acquired largely at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. After service in the United States Army, he studied at Tanglewood, where he met Darius Milhaud, with whom he subsequently studied in Paris. 'A Richer Melodic Gift'
        Settling in New York after returning from Paris in 1952, he was the music critic of The Nation, a music reviewer for The New York Herald-Tribune, managing editor of Musical America and executive director of the American Music Center.
        He was professor of composition at the University of Maryland from 1963-68 and composer in residence with the New York Philharmonic from 1967-68, and he joined the Juilliard School faculty in 1971. In 1973 he became the first composer in residence at Wolf Trap Farm Park. He taught privately the past two years.
        Writing of the composer's String Quartet No. 1 in 1955, a New York Times critic wrote, ''He has a richer melodic gift than most, a delight in complex and vigorous rhythms, the ability to invent new sonorities without striving for far-fetched effects and considerable emotional intensity.''
        After a program at Town Hall in 1962 that covered a dozen years of Mr. Trimble's music, another Times critics wrote that all the works revealed some major virtues in common: ''a wide-ranging, seemingly inexhaustible melodic invention; intricate rhythmic patterns; an imaginative feeling for instrumental and vocal color.''
        Mr. Trimble is survived by his wife, Constance Wilhelm, of Manhattan, and a brother, John R., of Massapequa.
        Funeral services are private, and a memorial service will be announced.
      