
       George R. Marek, an author and formerly an influential record executive for RCA Victor who was perhaps best known for his associations with such artists as Arturo Toscanini and Arthur Rubinstein, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        George R. Marek, an author and formerly an influential record executive for RCA Victor who was perhaps best known for his associations with such artists as Arturo Toscanini and Arthur Rubinstein, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Marek also was a busy and ambitious author on musical subjects. He wrote 14 books, including biographies of Beethoven, Puccini, Schubert, Richard Strauss and Toscanini. Many of his writings were attempts to popularize opera and the classics for America's growing musical audience after World War I. ''A Front Seat at the Opera,'' which encapsulated plots, composers' histories and commentaries, was one of these books; another was ''The Good Housekeeping Guide to Musical Enjoyment.''
        Mr. Marek had been the music editor of Good Housekeeping before going to RCA, and was also a co-founder of the Reader's Digest Record Club. He retired from RCA in 1972 and from the Reader's Digest at the end of last year.
        Mr. Marek joined RCA in 1950 as manager of artists and repertory in the records division. Seven years later, he was named head of the division. Mr. Marek once issued a record called ''Classical Music for People Who Hate Classical Music''; for him, getting customers started on ''music, any kind of music'' would form an unbreakable addiction. ''As the cigarette people believe,'' he said, ''the habit is everything.'' Believed in Packaging
        Mr. Marek had a hand in the emergence on RCA Victor of ''mood music'' records by such groups as the Melachrino Strings, but he also oversaw the recordings of Rubinstein, Pierre Monteux, Fritz Reiner and Gary Graffman. He was an ambitious marketer of records who brightened RCA Victor's cover art and increased sales to drugstores and supermarkets. ''You have to put your snake oil in a beautiful package,'' he once said.
        Mr. Marek, as head of RCA records, presided over Toscanini's last years with the NBC Symphony, including the final radio concert in 1954 in which the 87-year old conductor became lost in Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' Overture.
        Mr. Marek was the son of a Viennese dentist, and as a child in Vienna, he frequented the city's State Opera House. When he was 17, his family sent him to the United States, where one of his first jobs was in the ostrich-feather department of a milliner's establishment. From the beginning, he was a devoted standee at the old Metropolitan Opera House.
        Mr. Marek then moved into the advertising field and moonlighted evenings as Good Housekeeping's music critic. He went to RCA Victor after an unsuccessful attempt to secure the company's advertising account, and wound up in charge of the company's classical repertory. He was not a professional musician, and was largely self-taught.
        Mr. Marek is survived by his wife, Muriel; a son, Richard, and two brothers, Carl and Frederick, all of Manhattan, and a sister, Anneliese Fish, of White Plains.
      