
       Maurice Villency, a pioneer in the design of contemporary furniture whose signature served as the logo for his chain of stores in the New York metropolitan region, died Sunday morning of heart failure at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 85 years old.
        Maurice Villency, a pioneer in the design of contemporary furniture whose signature served as the logo for his chain of stores in the New York metropolitan region, died Sunday morning of heart failure at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Villency, convinced that modern contemporary designs could compete with traditional and early American furniture, began designing and building his own furniture in a loft on East Eighth Street in Greenwich Village more than 50 years ago.
        Among his first successes was the sectional couch, which he designed and manufactured. He introduced Scandinavian modern furniture to the United States in the early 1950's, insisting on qualilty and workmanship.
        His four Maurice Villency stores in the New York metropolitan region also feature contemporary furniture from Europe, including Italy, France and Belgium, although half of his stock is still manufactured in the United States. This family-owned company also operates three stores under the name of Preferred Seating.
        Mr. Villency was born in 1901 in Glasgow, Scotland, the son of a cabinet maker. At age 15, his family came to the United States and settled in Binghamton, N.Y. While crossing the Atlantic, their steamer was stopped by a German submarine and searched, but not sunk.
        When he was 19, he came to New York City and went to work for the Pullman Coach Company, where he soon became plant manager and head designer. When Pullman moved to Chicago in the early 1930's, Mr. Villency set up his own workshop in a loft on Eighth Street.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; a son, Robert of Manhattan; a daughter, Linda Neuberger of North Woodmere, L.I.; a brother, Charles of Great Neck, L.I.; two sisters, Etta Edelstein of Forest Hills, L.I., and Anne Goodman of Binghamton, and seven grandchildren.
      