
       John R. Starkey, who served for 20 years on the New York State Supreme Court, died Thursday. He was 82 years old and lived in Amityville, L.I.
        John R. Starkey, who served for 20 years on the New York State Supreme Court, died Thursday. He was 82 years old and lived in Amityville, L.I.
        Justice Starkey, who retired from the court in 1982, gained notoriety in January 1976 when he issued a gag order in an attempt to stop the publication of information about the murder trial of Sonny Carson, a Brooklyn political activist.
        The Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court later overturned the gag order, saying that such constraints against the news media could not be imposed in a criminal trial.
        In 1977, Justice Starkey was assigned to try the case of David R. Berkowitz, who was accused of being the ''Son of Sam'' killer. However, he withdrew from the case after a controversy over an interview in which he said that he ''could not accept'' a guilty plea from Mr. Berkowitz if the defendant insisted he had been motivated by demons.
        Justice Starkey, who was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Public School 35 in Brooklyn. He attended St. John's Preparatory School and received a law degree from St. John's College in 1928.
        From 1936 to 1940 he served as an assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of New York. In 1940 he won election as a Democrat to the State Assembly, where he represented Brooklyn's Fifth District for three terms.
        In March 1948, Mr. Starkey was named a city Magistrate by Mayor William O'Dwyer. Ten years later, Gov. W. Averell Harriman named him to fill a vacancy on the City Court in Brooklyn. While sitting on the City Court, Judge Starkey was elected to the county court in Brooklyn. He became a State Supreme Court Justice in 1962 when the five county court judges were named to the Supreme Court in Brooklyn in a reorganization of the state court system.
        He is survived by his wife, Agnes; his sons, John and James both of New York, and daughter, Mary Jane Canaan of Sacramento, Calif.
        A funeral mass will be held at 10:30 A.M. today at St. Martin of Tours Roman Catholic Church in Amityville.
        JOHN R. STARKEY, 82
      