
       Theodore C. Streibert, first director of the United States Information Agency and a longtime broadcasting executive, died Sunday at his home in Laurel Hollow, Syosset, L.I. He was 87 years old.
        Theodore C. Streibert, first director of the United States Information Agency and a longtime broadcasting executive, died Sunday at his home in Laurel Hollow, Syosset, L.I. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Streibert, who was appointed to head the newly formed U.S.I.A. in 1953 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, supervised all the Government's overseas information services, including the Voice of America, until 1957.
        Born Aug. 29, 1899, in Albany, Theodore Cuyler Streibert graduated from Wesleyan University in 1921. In 1923, he received an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.
        He remained at Harvard on the research staff of the business school for three years and was an executive in New York with the forerunner of RKO Radio Pictures, the Cinema Credits Corporation, and the Pathe Film Exchange. He returned to the business school in 1929 as assistant dean. Consultant to Conant
        In 1933, Mr. Streibert joined the staff of the 50,000-watt WOR-AM in New York, becoming executive vice president, general manager and, in 1945, president. As president, he was one a founder of the Mutual Broadcasting System, of which WOR was a key station, and was board chairman of MBS from 1949 to 1951.
        Mr. Streibert first served the Eisenhower Administration as a consultant on public affairs to James B. Conant, High Commissioner in West Germany. In 1953, he headed the U.S.I.A., a successor to the Office of War Information.
        Eisenhower, referring to the growing cold war between East and West, noted that ''our overseas information service never carried a heavier responsibility than it does now.''
        ''It is not enough for us to have sound policies, dedicated to goals of universal peace, freedom and progress,'' Eisenhower said. ''These policies must be made known to and understood by all peoples throughout the world.'' Criticism by McCarthy
        Mr. Streibert said that the agency's primary job was to combat the ''enormous resources of the Communist propaganda machine,'' but that it would do so by concentrating on straight, factual reporting.
        Despite that guiding principle, however, the U.S.I.A. was not spared the critcism of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's powerful Permanent Subommittee on Investigations, which said it detected ''anti-American content'' in some Voice of America broadcasts. The agency weathered the small storm.
        After his Government service, Mr. Streibert was a vice president of Time-Life Broadcasting Inc. and president of the Radio Free Europe Fund from 1962 to 1965.
        Surviving are two sons, Marshall, of New York, and Theodore, of West Newton, Mass., and two granddaughters.
        A service was held Tuesday.
      