
        Louis Krasner, the Russian-born American violinist who gave the premieres of the Alban Berg and Arnold Schoenberg Violin Concertos and was a champion of 20th-century music, died yesterday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 91.
        Mr. Krasner had a career as a virtuoso recitalist when he was young, and in his later years he taught at Syracuse University, the New England Conservatory and at Tanglewood. But he has always been best known for having persuaded Alban Berg to compose the exquisitely lyrical concerto that has become a centerpiece of the modern violin repertory.
        Mr. Krasner was born in Cherkassy, Ukraine, on June 21, 1903, and moved to Providence, R.I., with his family in 1908. He began to study the violin when he was 9, and supported his early studies by playing light music in popular clubs until a patron heard him perform and offered to underwrite his studies with Eugene Gruenberg at the New England Conservatory.
        In the mid-1920's, Mr. Krasner continued his studies with Lucien Capet in Paris, Otakar Sevcik in Pesek, Czechoslovakia, and Carl Flesch in Berlin, and began his concert career in Europe. By then he had become an advocate of 20th- century composers, most notably Joseph Achron and Alfredo Casella, whose concertos he performed throughout Europe in 1928.
        In 1930, he met Berg, Anton Webern and other Schoenberg students in Vienna, and was immediately taken with Schoenberg's 12-tone technique, a way of organizing themes that avoided conventional tonality. After hearing a performance of Berg's opera "Wozzeck," he resolved to commission a violin concerto from the composer. It was Mr. Krasner's belief, when he broached the subject to Berg during a visit to Vienna in 1935, that the sort of songful, emotionally rich concerto that he knew Berg could write might break down the concert world's opposition to the 12-tone style.
        Berg first resisted, telling Mr. Krasner that a young violinist would do better to play showpieces by Wieniawski or Vieuxtemps. But Mr. Krasner persisted and within six months -- inspired partly by the death of Manon Gropius, the 18-year-old daughter of Alma Mahler and the architect Walter Gropius -- Berg completed the work. Mr. Krasner gave its premiere in Barcelona on April 19, 1936, performed it in several European and American cities, and made the first recording of the work.
        While touring Europe and the United States with the Berg work, Mr. Krasner was in touch with Schoenberg, who had already moved to the United States and had completed a violin concerto around the same time as Berg. The work had been composed for Rudolf Kolish, but Kolish was touring with his quartet and had not had time to perform it, so Mr. Krasner agreed to give the premiere with Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra on Dec. 6, 1940.
        The Schoenberg was not as successful as the Berg, but Mr. Krasner continued to perform it, and recently the GM records label released his early concert recordings of both works on a compact disk. Composers admired his technical fluidity and the persuasive warmth that Mr. Krasner brought to their music, and he gave the premieres of works by several American composers, among them Roger Sessions, Henry Cowell and Roy Harris.
        Mr. Krasner curtailed his solo career in 1944, when he became concertmaster of the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra. He left the post in 1949 to join the faculty of Syracuse, where he taught violin and chamber music until 1972. He was also concertmaster of the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra from 1960 to 1968. In 1976 he joined the faculties of the New England Conservatory and the Berkshire Music Center. Although he was unable to perform in his last year, he never retired from teaching.
        He is survived by his wife, Adrienne, and two daughters, Elsa Miller of Brookline and Naomi Krasner of Newton, Mass.
      