
        Talley Beatty, a leading modern-dance choreographer known for coolly empathetic portraits of inner-city life and for high-energy, technically demanding jazz innovations, died on Saturday night at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said Glory Van Scott, a friend.
        Mr. Beatty, "one of American dance's most brilliant talents," according to Anna Kisselgoff, chief dance critic of The New York Times, was best known for sleek jazz dances that exploded with fast stage crosses from which dancers peeled off for brief solos or ensembles before merging once more into a crowd. But his choreography was rooted in classical ballet and American modern-dance techniques and required highly trained and virtuosic dancers to perform it. Many of the Beatty dances that have become American classics, among them his 1959 "Road of the Phoebe Snow," are vivid, intensely emotional portraits of people, groups and eras, created by a quietly committed humanist.
        Most deal with alienation. But there are few allusions to specific elements of plot or character, and Mr. Beatty said he was uncomfortable using narrative gesture. "My wish is to be able to make the statement in terms of design and to extend the idea past a natural gesture," he said in a 1981 interview.
        Mr. Beatty had the wry humor and sizzling temper of a man who had weathered history. He came to modern dance in the late 1930's, a time of hectic growth in that discipline in America and a time when black dancers and choreographers were slowly beginning to establish themselves. Mr. Beatty was one of the first black modern-dance choreographers to become well known, but somehow never had the acclaim to which many thought he was entitled, eclipsed perhaps, by the dazzling commercial success of Alvin Ailey. Ms. Kisselgoff described Mr. Beatty in 1991 as "one of America's best and most underrated choreographers."
        Mr. Beatty was born in Shreveport, La., but moved with his family to Chicago, where he was encouraged to study dance by a beautiful young dancer and teacher named Katherine Dunham. He made his debut at 12, with the Chicago Civic Opera. Mr. Beatty continued to study with Miss Dunham, absorbing her fusion of ballet, modern dance, jazz and ethnic dance forms as well as her determined focus on black themes.
        He began to perform with her in the mid-1930's and continued the association intermittently for nearly six decades, first as a performer and then as a Dunham teacher. His roles ranged from a jealous husband in "Rara Tonga" and a balletic Br'er Rabbit in "Ti Cocomacaque" to the initiate in "Rites de Passage," to which Mr. Beatty brought an exceptional physical control and intense emotion that later characterized his choreography. During the 1940's, he performed on his own and with the company in musical theater and film.
        Mr. Beatty embarked on a career as an independent dancer and choreographer in 1947. He had already established himself as a performer of rare strength. Maya Deren, a film maker, captured his long and lyrical ballet body line and physical beauty to haunting effect in 1945 in "A Study in Choreography for Camera." Admired by Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine, he was cast in "Blackface," choreographed by Lew Christiansen for Mr. Kirstein's Ballet Society, but further projects with the company fell through.
        His first professional piece, "Southern Landscape," was inspired by Howard Fast's "Freedom Road" and depicted black lives during Reconstruction in the South. "Mourner's Bench," a stark solo from the dance, became a signature piece.
        In 1949, he established his own troupe, Tropicana, and created works for it that included "Road of the Phoebe Snow," one of several dances he set to music by Duke Ellington. After successful tours in the United States and Europe, he disbanded the company in 1955. A prolific choreographer, he worked until just before his death.
        Among his most notable dances are "Come and Get the Beauty of It Hot" (1960), an excerpt from which, "Congo Tango Palace," has become independently popular; "Toccata" (1969), and "The Stack Up" (1982), which was created for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. His work has been performed by a wide range of American and foreign modern-dance and ballet companies.
        Mr. Beatty's television credits include the Ellington collaborations "A Drum Is a Woman" and "Black, Brown and Beige." Among his theater credits, on and off Broadway, are the choreography for the original production of "The Blacks," James Baldwin's "Blues for Mr. Charlie," and two Vinette Carroll productions, "Your Arms Too Short to Box With God" and "Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope." His honors include the 1993 Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award.
        Mr. Beatty is survived by a sister, Vera Scott of El Paso.
      