
        William L. Naumann, whose 55-year career at Caterpillar Inc. took him from humble beginnings on the factory floor to chief executive and chairman of the board, died late Monday at Bethesda Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 83 and lived in Delray Beach, Fla.
        The cause was cancer, the company said.
        Mr. Naumann was one of the last of the generation of leaders of big industrial companies who never attended college. His long climb through Caterpillar's executive ranks left him with just two years to lead the construction equipment giant before he retired at the age of 65 in 1977.
        While he was chairman and chief executive, Caterpillar introduced a distinctive track design for its bulldozers especially adapted to rough terrain. That design, still in use, continues to contribute to Caterpillar's growing market share, the company said.
        "He left his mark on Caterpillar by instilling in the organization a devotion to quality in the development and manufacture of products," said Donald V. Fites, currently chairman and chief executive of construction equipment company based in Peoria, Ill.
        Mr. Naumann joined Caterpillar as an apprentice machinist immediately after his graduation in 1929 from high school in nearby Pekin, Ill. Starting during the Depression, he held a string of manufacturing management jobs that culminated in his appointment in 1956 as manager of the giant East Peoria factory, the company's largest.
        Mr. Naumann moved into corporate management in 1960 when he was named vice president for administration of all domestic plants. Three years, later, oversight of purchasing, quality control and logistics was added to his portfolio. He was promoted to executive vice president in 1966 and joined the company's board the following year.
        Mr. Naumann remained an active director of Caterpillar until 1984, when he reached the board's mandatory retirement age.
        "He went the whole nine yards for Caterpillar," said Richard E. Stober, a company spokesman.
        William Lewis Naumann was born Nov. 20, 1911 in Desloge, Mo., the son of Jules L. Naumann, a butcher, and Barbara Eichenlaub Naumann. He married the former Emma Bottin of Peoria in 1934.
        Mr. Naumann was active in the local and Illinois State Chambers of Commerce and various trade groups and professional societies. He served a term as vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers and as a director of eight companies other than Caterpillar, including Northern Telecom of Canada and I.C. Industries.
        Mr. Naumann also held leadership positions in local Boy Scout districts and served as trustee of Illinois Wesleyan University.
        He is survived by his wife; his son, William, of Tulsa, Okla.; his daughter, Virginia Gold of Bedford Hills, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      