
        Teresa Teng, a singer from Taiwan whose love songs won her spectacular fame across East Asia, died suddenly on a holiday in Thailand on Monday. She was 40.
        Miss Teng had been having respiratory difficulties since earlier this year, according to the Kyodo News Agency in Tokyo. She reportedly died after an asthmatic attack in the northern resort city of Chiang Mai, where she was vacationing with a French friend.
        Kyodo reported that Thai doctors attributed her death to heart failure, but an autopsy had not yet been conducted.
        Miss Teng was especially famous in China, where for much of the 1980's she was a litmus test of the political winds: when the authorities eased controls, her music sold briskly in stalls in the tiniest towns; when the hard-liners clamped down, her music was banned.
        She was one of the first foreign singers whose music was swept into China after the country started opening up in the late 1970's, and she soon became a symbol of capitalist joys.
        Known in Chinese as Deng Lijun, Miss Teng's surname was the same as that of Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader. So she was jokingly known as Little Deng, and in some circles she was nearly as famous as he. Even peasants in the countryside were familiar with her songs and brightly colored costumes.
        Many other foreign singers became popular in China, but none captured the hearts of the country as she did.
        From Singapore to Japan, Miss Teng was a superstar and brilliant linguist. She sang in Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese Chinese, Japanese and English, and in recent years she had lived in Japan and become popular among both the young and the old.
        Her songs were bright and mellifluous, and her voice clear and sweet. Among her best-known songs were "The Moon Is a Reflection of My Heart" and "When Will You Return." In a song called "The Story of a Little Town," she sings:
        Many are the stories of a small town
        Full of joy and happiness.
        If you came to this little town,
        How much you would reap.
        It looks like a painting,
        It sounds like a song.
        Relatives flew to Thailand today to make funeral arrangements.
      