
        Harry E. Bergold Jr., an official and diplomat who provided information to journalists that led to the discovery that American Government funds were being sent illegally to anti-Sandinista fighters in Nicaragua, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 63.
        He had been suffering from cancer, said his wife, Karlene G. Knieps, a Foreign Service officer.
        Mr. Bergold served as Ambassador to Hungary and Nicaragua before his career was cut short by conservatives in the Senate.
        After returning from his post in Nicaragua in 1987 and spending a year in Washington, Mr. Bergold was nominated by President Reagan to become Ambassador to Morocco. But Senator Jesse Helms and several of his allies, who believed that Mr. Bergold had not been sufficiently tough on the leftist Sandinistas during his tenure in Managua, objected to his nomination and managed to defeat it.
        Mr. Bergold retired from the Foreign Service in 1989 and moved to Vienna, where he was a visiting lecturer at the Institute for European Studies.
        When his wife was named to a post at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris in 1993, they moved there.
        Mr. Bergold combined an encyclopedic knowledge of history with a laconic wit that won him friends in political circles throughout Europe and Latin America. While in Hungary, he advised Communist leaders on ways to loosen their ties to the Soviet Union. In Nicaragua, he developed a close relationship with the hard-line but intellectually restless Interior Minister, Tomas Borge, who often visited him for late-night conversations over cognac and cigars.
        Opposition figures were welcome guests at Mr. Bergold's residences in Budapest and Managua, but he kept his contacts with them unobtrusive for fear that they might be denounced as puppets of the United States.
        Mr. Bergold was considered a specialist in European affairs, and President Reagan's decision to send him to Nicaragua, at the suggestion of Secretary of State George P. Shultz, was surprising. Mr. Shultz explained that he wanted an ambassador in Nicaragua who had dealt with Communist governments.
        Although he professed never to have developed a deep interest in Latin America, Mr. Bergold found that his post in Managua put him in the vortex of a political firestorm. He came to disagree with the view that the Sandinista Government represented a serious threat to United States security, and he angered conservatives in Washington by refusing to assume a militantly anti-Sandinista posture.
        Mr. Bergold harbored serious misgivings about the wisdom of the war against the Sandinistas, which the Reagan Administration sponsored, and he repeatedly asked Washington for permission to open serious negotiations with Sandinista leaders. In the charged climate of the mid-1980's, however, he was not permitted to do so.
        He headed a United States negotiating team that met with Sandinista delegates several times in Mexico City, but was under strict instructions from Washington not to allow the talks to expand into serious bargaining over important issues.
        Later he provided information that led to discovery of an operation in which Lieut. Col. Oliver North, a National Security Council aide, was sending Government money to anti-Sandinista fighters at a time when such financing was prohibited by law. Supporters of Colonel North suspected the involvement of Mr. Bergold and took their revenge by scuttling his nomination as Ambassador to Morocco.
        Although Mr. Bergold served in Nicaragua when Sandinista power was at its peak, he never doubted that the Government was headed for collapse.
        He hung a large map of the Austro-Hungarian empire in his office in Managua, and when asked why, he replied, "To remind me that things change."
        Mr. Bergold was born Nov. 11, 1931, in Olean, N.Y. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale in 1953, served in the Army, and then returned to Yale to earn a Master of Arts degree in 1957. He joined the Foreign Service that year, serving in Honduras, Mexico, Madrid and Panama before being called to Washington.
        From 1973 to 1977 Mr. Bergold served in the Defense Department, first as Deputy Assistant Secretary for European and NATO affairs and later as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs. He was detailed to the White House in 1977 to help draft plans for the new Department of Energy. Later that year, he was named Assistant Secretary of Energy for International Affairs, a post he held until 1979.
        He was Ambassador to Hungary from 1980 to 1983, and Ambassador to Nicaragua from 1984 to 1987. During the 1987-88 academic year he was a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, and in 1988-89 he was a visiting professor of eastern European history at George Washington University.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bergold is survived by a stepdaughter from a previous marriage, Celeste Bergold, a State Department employee who lives in Virginia.
        A memorial service will be held Friday at 11 A.M. at the Eglise St. Clotilde in Paris.
      