
        Harold M. Jacobs, a former chairman of New York City's Board of Higher Education and a past president of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
        He was 81 and lived in Lawrence, L.I.
        A successful Brooklyn businessman, Mr. Jabobs held two distinct leadership roles, civic and religious, serving for more than two decades as a member and chairman of the Board of Higher Education and as a spokesman for Jewish orthodoxy in this country.
        His final years on the board were marked by the controversy over the board's attempt to fire Dr. Leonard Jeffries as chairman of the black studies department at City College.
        Mr. Jacobs was one of four board members who spoke out against Dr. Jeffries and actively sought his ouster because of the professor's anti-Semitic comments. As a result, Mr. Jacobs was one of four board members who were assessed $80,000 in damages in 1994 in a suit filed against the board by Dr. Jeffries in Federal Court in Manhattan. But a Federal appeals court in Manhattan reversed the ruling last month, holding that City College acted within its rights in removing Dr. Jeffries as chairman.
        Mr. Jacobs was a lifelong friend of former Mayor Abraham D. Beame, who appointed him to the Board of Higher Education in 1974. Mr. Jacobs was named chairman two years later.
        Mr. Jacobs was a strong advocate of charging tuition at the City University of New York, which began in 1975. He also advocated tough financial reforms during the city's fiscal crisis in 1976, and warned he would seek the resignation of the university's Chancellor, Robert J. Kibbee, unless they were implemented.
        As head of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, he advocated a strong, pro-Israel American policy in the Middle East and a tight arms embargo against Israel's Arab neighbors.
        The son of a prosperous manufacturer, Mr. Jacobs grew up in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, where he became active in Orthodox Jewish affairs.
        Despite his family's wealth, he chose to work his way through college, attending St. John's University at night. His strong sense of self-reliance helped explain his support of tuition in the City University.
        "Anyone who wants to go to college badly enough will find a way," he said in 1976. Mr. Jacobs received a master's degree in economics from Columbia University.
        Mr. Jacobs built his own business, Precision Ware, into a profitable kitchenware company. He later headed Precision Equities, an investment company.
        Mr. Jacobs also served as president of the National Council of Young Israel and as a member of New York State's advisory council for the Small Business Administration.
        Mr. Jacobs's wife, Pearl, died last year. He is survived by two sons, Joseph, of Brooklyn, and Paul, of Toronto; a daughter, Vivian Chill of Manhattan, and a sister, Ruth Malinowitz of Queens.
      