
        Margaret Chase Smith, a flinty, independent Maine Republican who made history as the first woman to win election to both houses of Congress and the first whose name was advanced for the Presidency at a national convention, died yesterday at at her home in Skowhegan, Me. She was 97 years old.
        A spokeswoman from the Margaret Chase Smith Library in Skowhegan said she had died of complications from a stroke eight days earlier that had left her in a coma.
        A red rose was Mrs. Smith's trademark, a stalwart conscience, her beacon. She was known as the "conscience of the Senate."
        In four terms in the House, from 1941 to 1949, then four in the Senate through 1975, Mrs. Smith won friends and earned foes across a wide political spectrum. She could number among her enemies such polar opposites as the Communist-hunting Joseph R. McCarthy and the leader of the Soviet Union, Nikita S. Khrushchev. The formidable Mr. McCarthy referred sneeringly to Mrs. Smith as a "Snow White," and Mr. Khrushchev saw her as "the devil in the disguise of a woman."
        Mrs. Smith said her life in politics was her only life. "I have no family, no time-consuming hobbies," she said late in her Senate career. "I have only myself and my job as United States Senator."
        But she also had a sense of humor.  In 1952, when asked by a reporter what she would do if she woke up one morning and found herself in the White House, she replied: "I'd go straight to Mrs. Truman and apologize. Then I'd go home."
        Though Mrs. Smith seemed to many people a champion of women's rights, she said she did not regard herself as a feminist. "I was treated fairly in the Senate, not because of equal rights but because of seniority," she said in a 1975 interview.
        In her dedication to her work, she answered 2,941 consecutive Senate roll-calls, a series broken only when she underwent a hip operation in 1968. In time, she became the ranking Republican on the Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committees, and served as well on the Appropriations Committee.
        Never anything but a Republican, Mrs. Smith was hardly the dyed-in-the-wool variety. Party regulars could never take her vote for granted. She voted as she saw fit.
        In the 1950's, Mrs. Smith alienated McCarthy by joining with six other Republican senators in making a "declaration of conscience" in which she took the measure of McCarthy's sensationalist, inquisitorial methods in trying to suppress Communism.  "I don't want to see the Republican Party ride to political victory on the four horseman of calumny -- fear, ignorance, bigotry and smear," Mrs. Smith said. McCarthy responded by referring to her and the six other senators as "Snow White and the Six Dwarfs."
        Khrushchev was understandably restrained when Mrs. Smith, a consistent advocate of a strong military, criticized President John F. Kennedy because she thought he lacked the will to use nuclear weapons and concluded that such restraint weakened America's struggle against the Soviet Union. When Mr. Khrushchev heard of Mrs. Smith's stance, he said he thought it had beaten "all records of savagery."
        But Mrs. Smith replied: "Mr. Khrushchev isn't really mad at me. I am not that important. He is angry because American officials have grown more firm since my speech."
        Shortly before his assassination, President Kennedy called Mrs. Smith a "formidable political figure" against whom he would not like to campaign. The morning after his death, she went into the Senate chamber before it convened and laid a red rose on Kennedy's old desk.
        As a member of Congress she supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation, much to the dismay of her more conservative colleagues. Over the years, she angered fellow Republicans by supporting Federal aid to education in 1948, by voting against Lewis L. Strauss, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's nominee for Secretary of Commerce in 1959, and by opposing President Richard M. Nixon's unsuccessful nominees to the Supreme Court, Clement F. Haynsworth in 1969 and G. Harrold Carswell in 1970.
        She was a strong supporter of civil rights and, again irritating some Republican colleagues, an early advocate of Government-financed medical care for the elderly.
        Margaret Madeline Chase was born on Dec. 14, 1897, in Skowhegan on the Kennebec River in central Maine. Her father, George Emery Chase, was the town barber and her mother was the former Carrie Murray.
        As the eldest of six children in a family of modest means, Margaret was expected to work -- and that she did even as a schoolgirl; she was skillful enough to shave her father's customers when he was busy or away from the shop.
        After graduating from Skowhegan High School in 1916, she held jobs for which a college education was not always required: telephone operator, circulation manager for a weekly newspaper, grade-school teacher and eventually a woolen mill executive.
        In 1930, at the age of 32, she married Clyde H. Smith, who was 22 years her senior and co-owner of the local newspaper. Mr. Smith, who was prominent in local Republican circles, ran for office and in 1937 was elected Representative from Maine's Second Congressional District.
        In 1940, seriously ill after suffering a heart attack, Mr. Smith asked Maine voters to continue his policies by electing his wife to succeed him. After his death, she was chosen to fill his unexpired term in a special election and was elected in her own right later that year.
        In 1948 Mrs. Smith entered the Republican senatorial primary and received more votes than her three male opponents combined. In the general election she easily defeated her Democratic rival, Dr. Adrian Scolten.
        She said she considered taking her maiden name back after her husband's death, adding: "My name was Chase. It's a good New England name. I liked it. But legally I was Smith."
        She quickly grew in stature as a senator and was mentioned as a Vice Presidential candidate in 1952 and again in 1968. In 1964 Mrs. Smith announced her candidacy for President and ran in the New Hampshire primary that year. She drew more than a dozen votes at the Republican National Convention, which was controlled by the conservative forces backing Barry Goldwater.
        She seemed unstopable until 1972, when William D. Hathaway, a 48-year-old Democrat and former member of Congress, defeated her in her campaign for a fifth Senate term. She was 74 at the time and seemed increasingly frail, riding the Capitol corridors on a small yellow cart and carrying a cane. There were rumors that her health was fragile, but she remained robust for many years.
        In her later years she was no less independent but grew weary and wary of militants.
        In 1970, 20 years after she had denounced McCarthy's scare tactics, she said that those on the radical left who advocated violence were easily the equal to the menace she had perceived from the radical right two decades earlier. "We had a national sickness then from which we recovered," she said. "We have a national sickness now from which I pray we will recover."
        But, true to form, she also attacked those in the Government who, she believed, had overreacted to the anti-war demonstrators.
        Mrs. Smith did not remarry after the death of her husband. She is survived by a sister, Evelyn Williams of Skowhegan, and several nieces and nephews.
      