
        Dr. Roger G. Gerry, an oral surgeon and community preservationist who devoted much of his life to keeping Roslyn Village, L.I., the way he found it, died on Friday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Gerry, who had been called "the conscience of Roslyn" and a "master preservationist," was a village trustee at his death.
        He and his wife, Peggy, became interested in historic preservation while in the Philadelphia area when Dr. Gerry's ship was being refitted during World War II.
        In 1950, after moving into a small Victorian house in Roslyn Village, about 45 miles east of New York City, they found the village's historic homes threatened by bypass and deterioration in the midst of suburban development.
        Over the next decades, while Dr. Gerry was serving as chief of dental surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, the couple organized their neighbors and other residents to stem the tide.
        Among other things, Dr. Gerry founded the Roslyn Landmark Society, an educational organization that sponsors an annual tour of historic homes, and the Roslyn Preservation Corporation, which has helped restore more than 200 homes and other buildings, making Roslyn, a town of 2,200 residents occupying one square mile, a leading repository of restored 19th-century architecture.
        In 1974, Dr. Gerry helped secure a listing in the National Register of Historic Places for the village's Main Street and its 39 historic homes. Five years later, at his behest and with his financial backing, the village created a Historic District Board, which regulates construction in designated areas.
        Dr. Gerry, a native of Far Rockaway, Queens, graduated from the University of North Carolina and received his dental degree from the University of Louisville.
        In 1982, he received the national award of honor from the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
        In addition to his interest in Roslyn, Dr. Gerry developed a passion for ceramics during a four-year tour of duty with the Navy in Japan. He was a leading fund raiser for the American wing of the Metropolitan Museum and, with his wife, provided a special exhibition of Japanese ceramics at the museum in 1989. Dr. Gerry also was the author of "Japanese Ceramics," published by the Brooklyn Museum.
        He is survived by his wife.
        Correction:  May 16, 1995, Tuesday
        An obituary headline yesterday about an oral surgeon who was also a community preservationist in Roslyn Village, L.I., misstated his given name in some copies. He was Dr. Roger G. Gerry, not Robert.
      