
        Lewis T. Preston, a former president of J. P. Morgan & Company who led the World Bank into the post-Communist world after his appointment in September 1991, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 68. Mr. Preston had suffered from heart problems in recent years and was under treatment for cancer. He resigned as the World Bank's president in March.
        During his tenure at the bank, which was set up after World War II to provide loans and technical assistance for the economies of developing countries, Mr. Preston oversaw the entry of the former Soviet republics into the institution, sought to give it a larger role in restructuring the public sectors of client countries, moved to make it more responsive to prevailing social concerns, and moved to trim its sprawling bureaucracy.
        Perceiving that the institution he had inherited must be more flexible, cost-effective and more focused on results in order to set policy for the post-cold-war era, one of his first steps was to slash 240 senior management positions. The administrative budget increased nearly 50 percent in his era, to $1.4 billion. Mr. Preston's salary was $285,000.
        These increases were caused in part by adding new countries to the bank -- its members now total 178, including all 15 of the former Soviet republics, up from 155 when Mr. Preston started -- and also by mandates from those members over which the president had no control.
        Still, he clashed on occasion with some of the 22 executive directors, appointed by shareholder countries, who attempted to tell him how to manage the bank.
        Mr. Preston did succeed in redirecting some of the bank's energies, while maintaining that the institutional mission remained primarily "the alleviation of poverty." He insisted on judging performance not by the quantity of loans, but rather by the success of projects financed by the bank. He called this "changing their emphasis from initiation to implementation."
        On the environmental front, the bank now employs about 300 specialists, and loans for environmental projects rose sharply while Mr. Preston was president, reaching to $2.4 billion in 1994. Lending for health, education and family planning also increased.
        Two months after joining the bank, Mr. Preston met President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union and his successor, Boris N. Yeltsin, the President of Russia, to help the former Soviet republics move toward market economies.
        He also attempted to guide the World Bank toward a larger advisory role in the restructuring of public sectors of client countries -- especially in the former Communist countries of Eastern Europe. He saw this in part as a response to the enormous growth in the availability of private capital for financing new projects around the world. By 1994, for example, the flow of private capital to developing countries had risen to $120 billion -- six times the World Bank's commitments.
        For all his accomplishments in a 40-year career at J. P. Morgan and its subsidiary, the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, he was almost painfully reticent. In the thick periodic anniversary volumes for his class at Harvard, 1950, others poured out page-long descriptions of their activities, offspring, divorces and other highly personal data. But Mr. Preston listed only his home address.
        Even his self-composed entry in Who's Who in America is notably curt. It lists his climb up the Morgan corporate ladder in six lines, from vice president in charge of international banking in 1968 to vice chairman of the board of directors in 1976 to president in 1978 and chairman of the board and chief executive of both J. P. Morgan and Morgan Guaranty in 1980.
        At Morgan, his first notable success was in persuading the bank in the mid-1960's that, having acquired the Guaranty Trust Company, it should trade in the new and rapidly growing but relatively unknown Eurodollar market as a potential source of liquidity. He was right, and Morgan prospered. By the 1970's, more than half the bank's earnings came from overseas.
        Having risen to chairman, he worked in the 1980's behind the scenes in helping to resolve some major financial problems. Among these was the effort by Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt to corner the silver market by buying the metal in huge quantities. Their action caused silver's price to soar on world markets, but when the price collapsed in March 1980, it cost the Hunts well over $1 billion.
        The events shook the foundations of a number of leading financial institutions. In the aftermath of the collapse, Mr. Preston led the institutions in putting together the bailout, preventing more serious consequences for the international banking system.
        Mr. Preston also was involved in the bailout of the Continental Illinois Corporation and the reduction of developing country debts. In December 1987, following a trend set by Citicorp to protect itself against losses on these debts, Mr. Preston persuaded other banks to follow Morgan in writing off as much as 50 percent of the face value of their Third World loans while setting aside reserves to cover against further losses.
        The action resulted in a loss for Morgan of $1.8 billion for the 1987 third quarter but left it in a much stronger financial position. He took early retirement from Morgan, where his salary was about $2 million, in February 1991.
        Douglas A. Warner 3d, J.P. Morgan's chairman, said in a statement today that "Lew Preston was the architect of the modern J.P. Morgan and the pre-eminent international banker of his era. He led our firm with penetrating vision, formidable intellect and strength of character."
        Mr. Preston was chosen for the World Bank post by President George Bush. He said he accepted because after so many years in the private sector, he felt obliged to perform "a public service." That post also made him head of the bank's sister agencies, the International Development Association, the International Finance Corporation and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
        Mr. Preston was born Lewis Thompson Preston on Aug. 5, 1926, in New York, the son of Lewis T. and Priscilla Baldwin Preston. A Preston grandfather had been a Confederate officer who later became a partner in the burgeoning Standard Oil Company of John D. Rockefeller; his father was a World War I flier and later a well-known hunter.
        He collected works of the nature artist John James Audubon and hung several in his office, first in New York and later in Washington. One showed an eagle seizing a quail amid a flurry of feathers. "A bunch of clients complained about feeling a little like the quail," he wryly recalled.
        Mr. Preston is survived by his wife, the former Gladys (Patsy) Pulitzer, whom he married in 1959; their four daughters, Linda Miller, Victoria Donaldson, Priscilla Hallowell and Electra Toub; and a daughter, Lucille, from an earlier marriage. A son, Lewis T. Preston, died in 1993.
      