
        Roosevelt S. Zanders, New York's "celebrity chauffeur," whose concept of personal service included shipping 100 pounds of shrimp to John Wayne in Paris and even securing theater tickets for Sol Hurok, died last Saturday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81, and had lived much of his life in Harlem.
        From 1946, when he borrowed $3,000 to buy his first Cadillac, through the next four decades, when his fleet grew to 16 cars, including three Rolls-Royces, Mr. Zanders was a chauffeur with a difference.
        Operating what amounted to a full-scale concierge service from a Harlem office, Zanders Rental Service made hotel and restaurant reservations, arranged parties, secured baby sitters, took care of famous clients' laundry and banking needs, and drove them to their appointments.
        At one time or another Mr. Zanders claimed a client list that included Ethel Merman, Margot Fonteyn, Winston Churchill, Eleanor Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, Richard M. Nixon, William Holden, Red Skelton, Clark Gable, Lana Turner, Danny Kaye, Eddie Fisher, Nat King Cole and Aristotle Onassis.
        Once, on short notice, he said he rented an entire hotel floor, hired a maid and butler and bought all the food for a Christmas visit by members of the Gerber baby-food family.
        He made a $200,000 cash delivery for Aristotle Onassis, he said. He sent two tiger cubs to the President of Panama, and arranged for a log cabin from the Black Forest to be sent to a South American client for use as a hunting lodge. (When the client's employees couldn't read the German assembly instructions, Mr. Zanders had them translated into Spanish.)
        Perhaps his most impressive coup, according to Mr. Zanders, was when the impresario Sol Hurok brought the Sadler's Wells Ballet to New York, then discovered he had not reserved enough tickets for his own guests. Mr. Zanders got them for him.
        Mr. Zanders, who was born in Valdosta, Ga., grew up in Youngstown, Ohio, where a job as a country-club locker-room attendant gave him his first taste of personal service.
        He moved to New York in 1935, but it was not until 1943, as a construction engineer in Alaska working on the Alcan Highway, that he hit on his big idea.
        As he later recalled it, when he was told it would take too much time and trouble to order a roll of film, he got to thinking: "I figured there must be lots of folks like me who find themselves in a strange place, get all bogged down in red tape and have trouble getting the things they wanted."
        Putting the idea to work when he returned to New York, he waited a long time for his first client, but through a neighbor who was a maid for Gertrude Lawrence's lawyer, he began driving for the actress, who introduced him to the Duke and Duchess of Windsor and other clients.
        Mr. Zanders sold his business in 1985.
        He is survived by a brother, Ralph, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Roxanne, of New York, and two grandchildren.
      