
        Hao Wang, a logician who sought a way to link mathematics to philosophy, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Hanne Tierney.
        Dr. Wang was one of the few confidants of the mathematician and logician Kurt Godel and a founding president of the Godel Society in Vienna. Dr. Wang introduced some of Dr. Godel's philosophical ideas in his book, "Reflections on Kurt Godel" (1987). In his final work, "A Logical Journey: From Godel to Philosophy," to be published by M.I.T. Press, he expanded on Dr. Godel's philosophy, recounting conversations with and letters from the logician.
        The conversations focused on developing a more coherent and expansive view of the world going beyond traditional analytic philosophy and taking account of the thoughts of other scientists, including not only logicians and computer programmers, but also people working in all fields of science.
        His early mathematical achievements contributed to advances in computer science in the 1950's. While working for the International Business Machines Corporation, he discovered a faster way to prove certain kinds of logical truths using computers. He was awarded the Milestone Prize for Automated Theorem Proving for that work in 1983.
        He also posed what is known as the "tiling problem," which examines the challenge of how to cover a plane using tiles of the same shape.
        Dr. Wang was born in Jinan, China, on May 20, 1921. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from the National Southwestern Associated University in China in 1943 and a master's degree in philosophy from Qinghua University in 1945. Dr. Wang, who was a member of the Association for Symbolic Logic, was named honorary professor at two universities in China.
        In 1948, he came to the United States on a scholarship from Harvard University, where he received a doctorate in philosophy. At Oxford University in England, he was the John Locke lecturer in philosophy and Reader in the Philosophy of Mathematics. In 1961, he returned to Harvard as the Gordon McKay Professor of Mathematical Logic and Applied Mathematics.
        He joined the faculty of Rockefeller University in 1967 and helped assemble a group of renowned philosophers and logicians. The group disbanded in 1976 under budgetary pressure from the university's president, Dr. Frederick Seitz. Dr. Wang was the only logic professor to remain at the university.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Wang is survived by two sons, San-You Wang of Boston and Yi-Ming Wang of Washington; a daughter, Jane Hsiao-Ching Wang of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      