
        Martin Gansberg, a former reporter and editor at The New York Times, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. A resident of Rutherford, N.J., he was 74.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said.
        In his 43 years at The Times, Mr. Gansberg held many news-gathering positions, including news editor of the International Edition of The Times in the 1960's.
        Mr. Gansberg also won wide recognition for a front-page article he wrote in 1964 on the murder of a young woman, Catherine (Kitty) Genovese, while neighbors ignored her screams. The article focused national attention on a neighborhood's callousness.
        "For more than half an hour," the article began, "38 respectable, law-abiding citizens in Queens watched a killer stalk and stab a woman to death in three separate attacks in Kew Gardens."
        The Newspaper Reporters Association of New York gave him a plaque for excellence for the article. The Silurians, a society of journalists, cited him for the best news article of the year.
        Mr. Gansberg was born in Brooklyn and graduated from St. John's University. He joined The Times in 1942 as a night office boy and held a variety of positions. In 1960, The Times sent him to Paris as an assistant editor and then news editor of its new international edition, which ceased publication in 1967 when The Times became a partner in The International Herald Tribune.
        By then Mr. Gansberg was back in New York, first as assistant regional editor. After a stint as a reporter, he became an administrative assistant on the metropolitan desk, worked briefly as an assistant to the managing editor and retired in 1985 as regional assistant editor for New Jersey.
        Mr. Gansberg is survived by his wife of 48 years, Agatha Miller Gansberg; a son, Alan, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Judith Gansberg of Newton, Mass.; a brother, Murray, of Brick Township, N.J.; a sister, Eudice Stadlen of Bayside, Queens, and two granddaughters.
      