
        Charles Cecil Wall, who supervised the preservation of George Washington's Virginia home at Mount Vernon for nearly four decades, died on Monday at a nursing home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91.
        In his 39 years as resident director of Mount Vernon, Mr. Wall, who began his tenure in 1937, took both halves of his job description seriously. For all his administrative duties overseeing a staff of 85, he also saw it as his task to live the 18th-century life of George Washington, within 20th-century limits.
        "He lived and loved George Washington so much he almost became a reincarnation," Mr. Wall's granddaughter Elizabeth McKean said yesterday.
        Like Washington, Mr. Wall, who lived in a house on the mansion's grounds and was a grand master of Washington's Masonic Lodge in Alexandria, Va., rode horseback over the 500-acre estate (considerably reduced from Washington's 8,000 acres).
        He kept a boat to inspect the Potomac frontage. He planted the kind of flowers Washington had planted. And when Washington's original greenhouse buildings were re-created with fireproof materials that allowed use of their fireplaces, he kept the fires lit in the fall and the winter just to exult in the authentic aroma of wood smoke drifting over the hilltop.
        Mr. Wall supervised considerable restoration at Mount Vernon, which has been owned by the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association since 1958. His crowning achievement was leading the campaign that resulted in 1974 in Federal legislation creating a park on the Maryland side of the Potomac to preserve the view from the famous Mount Vernon portico.
        A native of Curwensville, Pa., who graduated from the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Wall had no interest in Washington until 1929, when, chafing at big-city life, he abandoned a business career in New York City to succeed a cousin who had drowned while serving as an assistant superintendent at Mount Vernon.
        Over the next 47 years, he became an encyclopedia of Washington lore. As a self-taught historian, Mr. Wall, who wrote a 1980 biography, "George Washington: Citizen Soldier," became so zealous an authority on his idol that he allowed no historical aspersion to pass.
        For example, when the humorist Marvin Kitman, in the book "George Washington's Expense Account," described the phaeton that Washington had bought at Government expense to take him to war as "a deluxe carriage," Mr. Wall was not amused. He wrote a letter to The New York Times pointing out that the cost of the "commonplace" phaeton had been about one-eighth that of Washington's personal carriage.
        In addition to his granddaughter Ms. McKean, Mr. Wall is survived by a daughter, Mary Jane McKean of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a brother, Arthur, of Burlingame, Calif.; three other grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      