
        George F. Seuffert Jr., recipient of the Handel Medal, New York City's highest cultural award, and a music consultant to five mayors, died on Saturday at South County Hospital in Wakefield, R.I. He was 82 and lived in Douglaston, Queens.
        Mr. Seuffert (pronounced SOY-fert) had a heart attack while swimming, his family said.
        His father founded the Seuffert Band, which performed at outdoor concerts in Queens, in 1898. George Jr. first mounted the podium in 1928 at age 16 to conduct free weekend programs of light opera and popular favorites.
        Three years later, he took over as director and conductor, and continued until last summer. His father, a bank executive, made only infrequent appearances after he handed over the baton.
        During his long career, the son worked as a composer and arranger. He also headed the music departments at two high schools, Grover Cleveland in Queens and Bushwick in Brooklyn, directed the Fordham University Band for 40 years, and served as executive director of the Queens Cultural Association.
        He was born in Ridgewood, Queens, and was a music graduate of New York University, from which he also received an M.A. and a Ph.D. in education. He was named band master of the Fordham University Band in 1951 after 20 years in the city school system.
        He led the Seuffert Band on summer weekends at the Forest Park Music Grove bandshell in Queens, with occasional trips to parks in the other boroughs.
        Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him an unpaid adviser in 1966. He helped to develop the city's free music series and programs for gifted poor children. He also raised money to support such efforts.
        Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called him and his band one of the city's greatest treasures. He gave him a check for $29 last September, for 29 years' back pay, Mr. Giuliani said.
        Mr. Seuffert is survived by his wife, Doris Spring Seuffert; three sons, Dr. George, of Anchorage, Edward, of Chicago, and Peter, of Narragansett, R.I.; a stepson, John Spring of Huntington, L.I.; two brothers, Richard, of Eustis, Fla., and August, of Hendersonville, N.C.; a sister, Marie Seuffert of Narragansett, 15 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      