
        Evron M. Kirkpatrick, a scholar who over nearly three decades built the American Political Science Association into a major academic organization, died on April 26 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 83.
        His family said the cause of death was congestive heart failure.
        In 1954 he was appointed director of the political science association, a post he held until he retired in 1981. He was credited by associates with fostering the organization's growth from about 7,000 to more than 15,000 members. He also taught several terms at Howard University and at Georgetown University. In 1981 he became a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.
        Associates noted that Mr. Kirkpatrick took pains to keep the association out of the heated controversies that swept most American universities during the 1960's and 1970's because of the Vietnam War.
        Thomas E. Mann, a specialist on government at the Brookings Institution, said of Mr. Kirkpatrick, "He wanted to treat the arguments and evidence of human political behavior scientifically."
        Among his publications were "Foundation of Political Science" in 1970 and "The Past and Future of Presidential Debates" in 1979.
        Evron Maurice Kirkpatrick was born Aug. 15, 1911, in Raub, Ind. He earned both a bachelor's and a master's degree in political science at the University of Illinois, and a doctorate in political science at Yale University in 1939. He was an early associate of Hubert H. Humphrey, later the Senator and Vice President, whom he assisted in creating Minnesota's Democratic Farmer Labor Party in the 1930's. He taught at the University of Minnesota, where Mr. Humphrey was his student, in the late 1930's and early 1940's.
        During World War II he served as assistant director for research and analysis of the Office of Strategic Services, the Government's wartime intelligence agency. From there he went to the State Department, where he worked in an identical capacity for eight years.
        His wife of 40 years, Jeane Jordan Kirkpatrick, was the United States Ambassador to the United Nations during the Reagan Administration. His admiring comment on his spouse's role was: "I get to meet the most fascinating people, people I'd never meet on my own."
        In addition to Mrs. Kirkpatrick, he is survived by three sons, John E. of Miami; Stuart A. of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Douglas J. of Bethesda; two daughters, Mary E. Evans of Austin, Tex., and Anna of Aix-en-Provence, France, and six grandchildren.
      