
        John Edwin O'Toole, a lifelong advertising executive who was one of the most articulate spokesmen for the agency industry, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Carefree, Ariz.
        The cause of death was leukemia, said Joyce Harrington, a spokeswoman for the American Association of Advertising Agencies, of which Mr. O'Toole was a past president and chief executive.
        Mr. O'Toole, a soft-spoken man with a dry wit, was born in Chicago in 1929. As a young man he intended to enter the newspaper business and in 1951 graduated from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University.
        After a year in the Marine Corps though, Mr. O'Toole returned to Chicago in 1953 and took a job as a junior copywriter at the advertising agency now known as BBDO. A year later, he moved to Foote, Cone & Belding, beginning an association that would last for the next 31 years.
        He rose steadily at Foote, Cone, now the flagship agency of a holding company called True North Communications. After a decade as a copywriter, he was sent to the agency's Los Angeles office in 1964 as creative director. In 1967 he returned to Chicago, again as creative director, and a year later was elected a member of the agency's board.
        In 1969, he was named president of Foote, Cone & Belding in New York. He became president of the parent company, then known as FCB Communications, a year later. In 1981, he was named chairman.
        Under his stewardship, Foote, Cone's business grew strongly. From 1970 to 1985, when he retired, billings rose to $2 billion from $241 million.
        His retirement was brief.
        In 1987, he was named director of the Washington office of the agency association, known on Madison Avenue as the Four A's. Two years later, he was elected president and chief executive. He served a five-year term, representing the industry's interests with clients, the press and governments during a time of ferment and challenges that included the industry's worst recession since the 1930's. He retired at the end of his contract in January 1994.
        Two months ago, he was inducted into the Advertising Hall of Fame of the American Advertising Federation.
        He wrote extensively about the business, including a book, "The Trouble with Advertising," in 1981, and numerous articles for a wide variety of publications, including The Atlantic, Newsweek and The Columbia Journalism Review.
        Mr. O'Toole is survived by his wife, Phyllis Treadway O'Toole, and two daughters, Ellen O'Toole Hoeffel of Manhattan and Sally O'Toole Whitesell of Greenville, S.C.
      