
        The Rev. John C. Bennett, a theologian whose views on religion, politics and social policy influenced American thinking for decades, died on Thursday at a retirement community in Claremont, Calif. He was 92.
        From 1963 to 1970, Mr. Bennett served as the 11th president of Union Theological Seminary in New York City.
        "He was an early supporter of feminism, an ardent champion of the civil rights movement, an eloquent critic of U.S. involvement in Vietnam, a prophetic supporter of economic rights for minorities," the Rev. Holland L. Hendrix, current president of Union Theological Seminary, said yesterday. "All this far in advance of the popularity of these movements."
        Mr. Bennett was a key figure in the ecumenical, or Christian unity, movement. He also made a lifelong study of Communism and repeatedly warned against turning the cold war into a religious crusade. By doing so, he said in 1960, "we make impossible the tolerance and humaneness which must yet come into international relations if there is to be a future for mankind."
        Widely regarded as a quick, precise speaker and skilled debater, he dismissed the notion that his outspokenness was a violation of the separation of church and state. "Church-state relations in the United States have never meant that churchmen should separate their Christian ethics from political action," Mr. Bennett said in 1966.
        That was a time in which he was growing increasingly disturbed about American involvement in Southeast Asia, so much so that he and Rabbi Abraham Heschel formed Clergy and Laity Concerned About the Vietnam War. But Mr. Bennett, ordained in the Congregational Church, was never a pacifist-above-all: in 1941, he opposed American isolationism in the face of Nazi conquests and was a co-founder with Reinhold Niebuhr of the magazine Christianity and Crisis.
        John Coleman Bennett was born in Kingston, Ontario, the son of a Presbyterian minister. He studied at Phillips Exeter Academy and Williams College and did graduate studies at Oxford University in England and at Union Theological Seminary.
        Though he was commonly referred to as "Dr. Bennett" because of his many honorary degrees ("five in one week from Catholic institutions," Dr. Hendrix recalled yesterday), Mr. Bennett never received a doctorate. He held various religious and teaching posts, joining the faculty of Union Theological Seminary, an interdenominational institution in Morningside Heights, in 1943. He became dean of the faculty in 1955 and was acting president for a brief time before assuming the presidency.
        In 1966, Mr. Bennett was instrumental in forging an agreement between the seminary and Fordham University to pool professors, credits and library resources for religious studies. The agreement was believed to be the first contractual sharing of graduate resources in theology between a Protestant and Catholic institution.
        In 1970, Mr. Bennett was one of three theologians invited by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to testify on the war in Southeast Asia. "More than any other theologian or moralist," Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota said shortly afterward, "John Bennett knows how to put issues into historical, legal and moral contexts which allow thinking politicians to make sound judgments."
        Mr. Bennett's principal books were "Christian Ethics and Social Policy," published in 1946; "Christians and the State" (1948), and "Foreign Policy in Christian Perspective" (1966). In retirement, he continued to write and lecture and to condemn nuclear warfare.
        Mr. Bennett's wife, Ann McGrew Bennett, died in 1986. He is survived by two sons, John, of Claremont, Calif., and William, of Portland, Me., and a daughter, Elizabeth Hemmer of Sacramento, Calif.
      