
        Clifford C. Clogg, a sociology professor at Pennsylvania State University and an authority on population statistics, died on Sunday while jogging near his home in Bellefonte, Pa. He was 45.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Frank Clemente, chairman of the department of sociology at Penn State.
        Dr. Clogg held the titles of Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Professor of Statistics at Penn State. He had an international reputation for his grasp of quantitative methods and demography, particularly in rates analysis, methods of standardization and the analysis of latent structures.
        In the last several years Dr. Clogg's expertise became a resource for panels of the National Academy of Science and various other professional committees dealing with population statistics in the United States. His work was supported by grants from the National Science Foundation, the Russell Sage Foundation and the Census Bureau.
        He was born in Oberlin, Ohio, graduated from Ohio University and received graduate degrees in statistics and sociology from the University of Chicago, which awarded him a Ph.D. in sociology in 1977.
        He joined the Penn State faculty as an assistant professor in 1976. From 1989 to 1991 Dr. Clogg served on a National Science Foundation advisory panel for sociology studies, and last year he was named to the foundation's panel for measurement, methods and statistics in the social sciences program.
        He was an editor of several publications, including Demography, Sociological Methodology, the Journal of Educational Statistics, the Journal of Education and Behavioral Statistics and the Journal of the American Statistical Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy Ellenberger Clogg, and four daughters, Katye, Edna, Roberta and Edith, all of Bellefonte; his mother, Narise Puder Clogg of Bellville, Ohio; two sisters, Corinne Bieri of Butler, Ohio, and Susan Remcheck of Gastonia, N.C., and a brother, David, of Utica, Ohio.
      