
        Eric Berger, an education journalist for more than 50 years and former editor in chief of Scholastic Magazines Inc., died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A lifelong resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, he was 88.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Berger, a graduate of St. John's University Law School, started his career as a reporter for The Brooklyn Eagle and The Brooklyn Times. He joined Scholastic Magazines in 1941 as the editor of Senior Scholastic. The Freedoms Foundation, based in Valley Forge, Pa., gave him its medal in 1953 for a series on democracy he published in the magazine.
        He retired from Scholastic as editor in chief in 1973 but remained active as an editorial consultant until a month ago. The company now publishes 42 magazines on a range of classroom subjects, calibrated for pupils and teachers of various grade levels, with a total circulation of more than eight million.
        During World War II, he was editor in chief for the Inter-Allied Department of Intelligence in the War Department in Washington, producing reports on combat operations for distribution to American and Allied armed forces.
        After the war, he also edited Literary Cavalcade. Then, from 1960 to 1970, he served as editorial director of Science World, which Scholastic had recently acquired. Under his guidance, its circulation rose to one million copies a week.
        During that period, he also was editorial director of Science Teachers World, director of Scholastic's science department and editor in chief of the high-school division. Together with Isaac Asimov, he edited a book series, "Breakthroughs in Science," published by Scholastic and Houghton Mifflin, and collaborated with Henry Steele Commager on a series of articles on the Constitution.
        He also edited "Vistas of Science" for the National Science Teachers Association, a series of textbooks on various scientific subjects for junior high school students.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Isabelle Gronich Berger; a son, Neil, of Chicago, and a grandson.
      