
        Reuel Denney, who studied, analyzed and illuminated American popular culture as a scholar, author, teacher, journalist and poet, died on May 1 at the Kaiser Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 82.
        The cause was kidney failure after aneurysm surgery, said his wife, Ruth.
        His first poetry collection, "The Connecticut River and Other Poems," won the Yale Younger Poets Award in 1939. His later poems, including "In Praise of Adam" (1965), were also warmly received.
        But although Mr. Denney saw himself as a poet first, he was best known as an acclaimed college professor and as the scholarly author of works on American culture, including "The American Muse" (1957).
        Mr. Denney won tenure at both the University of Chicago and the University of Hawaii, where he was a professor of American studies and English, even though his own formal education ended with a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College. He retired in 1977.
        Mr. Denney was born in New York City and grew up in Buffalo. After college, he returned there to teach English at a technical high school. He owed his academic career to a chance encounter with a young college instructor in Buffalo, David Riesman, the sociologist, who is now retired from the Harvard faculty.
        "We became tennis pals," Mr. Riesman said yesterday, recalling how impressed he had been with the scope and depth of Mr. Denney's. learning. When Mr. Riesman was hired by the University of Chicago, he recruited Mr. Denney for the faculty.
        The association also led Mr. Denney to secure a footnote to scholarship history when Mr. Riesman, by then at Yale, asked Mr. Denney to become his long-distance collaborator on what he intended as a modest look at modern culture. The book, on which Nathan Glazer also collaborated, was "The Lonely Crowd," the landmark study of 20th-century American society. It has sold more than 500,000 copies since it was first published by the Yale University Press in 1950.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Denney is survived by a son, Randall, of Eureka, Calif.
      