
        Sir Michael Hordern, a classical actor with the soul of a clown, died on Tuesday at the Churchill Hospital in Oxford, England. He was 83.
        The cause was kidney disease, a hospital spokesman told The Associated Press.
        In the English tradition, Sir Michael worked with equal ease in major stage roles and supporting roles in movies and on television. He played King Lear, Prospero in "The Tempest" and Macbeth, and he created the central role of the flustered philosopher in the original London production of Tom Stoppard's "Jumpers." But he was also known for playing parsons and vicars, headmasters and barristers. He became a star as a character actor.
        In a career of almost 60 years, he specialized in comedy, in which he could be dotty, irascible and explosive. "I try to find comedy in everything I play, even 'King Lear,' " he once said, adding with humility: "I suppose I'm a jack of all trades, with the well-known corollary, master of none. The advantage is that I've never been typed. People never say, 'That's a Michael Hordern part.' "
        But they would say, "That's Michael Hordern," instantly spotting him in an ensemble, with his downturned mouth, steadily receding hairline and look of perpetual bedazzlement. He was a master of deadpan comedy. In common with Sir Ralph Richardson, he had an eccentric humor that could brighten even a dim evening.
        He was born in Berkhampsted, Hertfordshire, and early in his life was a schoolmaster and salesman. After a brief period as an amateur actor, he made his London debut at 25, as Lodovico in "Othello." He served in the Royal Navy during World War II and returned to the stage in 1946 as Torvald Helmer in "A Doll's House."
        At Stratford-on-Avon, his parts ranged all the way from Mr. Toad in "Toad of Toad Hall" to Caliban in "The Tempest." Eventually he played many major Shakespearean characters, including King Lear both onstage and on television. Before he did his first Lear, he asked John Gielgud for advice. Mr. Gielgud's famous response was, "All I can tell you is, get a light Cordelia."
        Mr. Hordern won acclaim in Chekhov, beginning with the title role in "Ivanov" in 1950. He also explored the work of contemporary playwrights, appearing notably as the seedy barrister in John Mortimer's play "The Dock Brief" in 1958, and in works by Harold Pinter, David Mercer, Alan Ayckbourn and Mr. Stoppard. (He was in both "Enter a Free Man" and "Jumpers.") Mr. Stoppard was a close friend; for many years they shared a membership in a fishing club. Mr. Hordern made his Broadway debut in 1959, co-starring with Wally Cox in Marcel Ayme's "Moonbirds."
        Knighted in 1983, he celebrated the event several months later with his performance as Sir Anthony Absolute in "The Rivals" at the National Theater. In the Sheridan comedy, he delighted theatergoers as he ate his breakfast eggs while silently and passionately lusting after his son's fiancee, Lydia Languish.
        He had an active film career beginning in 1939. After playing Cicero in "Cleopatra," he continued his connection with Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton by playing Miss Taylor's father in the Franco Zeffirelli film of "The Taming of the Shrew." He was the well-meaning Parson Adams in Tony Richardson's version of "Joseph Andrews." Among his other films were Somerset Maugham's "Trio," "The Bed-Sitting Room," "Gandhi" and, in 1991, "Dark Obsession," in which he played an edgy lord.
        On television he was in Muriel Spark's "Memento Mori"' with Maggie Smith and played old Mr. Simcox in Mr. Mortimer's "Paradise Postponed," mad Uncle Theodore in Evelyn Waugh's "Scoop" and Peter Featherstone in "Middlemarch."
        His wife, the actress Grace Eveline Mortimer, died in 1986. He is survived by a daughter.
      