
        Michael P. W. Stone, whose tenure as Secretary of the Army was marked by a shrinking military, the debate over the role of women in combat and by the Persian Gulf war, died on Thursday at his home in San Francisco. He was 69.
        The cause was bone marrow cancer, his family said.
        A California businessman active in the Republican Party and civic affairs, Mr. Stone was named the 15th Secretary of the Army in 1989 by President George Bush. He served until 1993 while at the same time heading the board of the Panama Canal Commission, which oversees canal operations.
        At his death he was a director of BEI Electronics Inc. of San Francisco, chairman of the BEI Defense Systems Company of Dallas and chairman of Projects International Associations of Washington, which advises clients on international trade and investments.
        He was also a director of the American University in Cairo, a trustee of the Golden Gate National Park Association and a fellow at the Hoover Institute at Stanford University.
        He entered Government service in 1982 as mission director of the United States Agency for International Development in Cairo. With a staff of 325, he supervised various development projects from the Cairo sewer system to a power plant on the Suez Canal. He later directed the agency's Caribbean affairs office.
        In 1986, he was named Assistant Secretary of the Army and in 1988 Under Secretary of the Army.
        As Secretary he dealt with base closings and personnel management at a time of force reductions. He suggested that if Congress repealed the ban on women flying combat missions, the Army might use hundreds of them as helicopter pilots. The ban was not repealed.
        After the question of harassment of women in the military became acute in the wake of the Navy's Tailhook scandal, he ordered the Army to take a hard look at regulations and their observance as they affected women in uniform.
        Michael Patrick William Stone was born in London. His father was a commander in the British Navy who was later stationed in New York as a Foreign Service officer. The son entered Yale College in 1942 and a year later, when he was just 17, went to England to join the Air Fleet Arm of the British Navy for pilot training. He served as a carrier-based fighter pilot in the Mediterranean and the South Pacific.
        After the war, he returned to Yale, graduating in 1948 and started his business career with a New York investment firm. He was then associated with several corporations before he became a vice president and co-owner of Sterling International of San Francisco in 1960, a diversified paper products company.
        When he went to work for the Government 22 years later, he was the president of Sterling Vineyards in the Napa Valley.
        Mr. Stone is survived by his wife of 42 years, Ann Donogh Stone; two sons, Prescott, of San Francisco, and Matthew, of San Anselmo, Calif.; two brothers, Timothy J., of Manhattan, and Roger D., of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      