
        The saxophonist and clarinetist Marshal Royal, best known as the lead alto saxophonist and music director of the Count Basie Orchestra for 20 years, died on May 8 in a nursing home in Inglewood, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said William Hill, a friend.
        As a boy, Mr. Royal learned how to play reeds, violin and guitar, and by the age of 13, he was performing in public. He made his professional debut working with Curtis Mosby, and in 1931 he joined the bandleader Les Hite.
        In the 1930's, he occasionally worked with Duke Ellington on the West Coast, and he also appeared in the Mae West film "Belle of the 90's" and a short called "Bundle of Blues." Starting in 1939, he spent two years with the Lionel Hampton band. Then, after serving in the Navy, he worked with the band leader and songwriter Eddie Heywood.
        In 1950, Mr. Royal joined Count Basie, a move that secured his role in jazz history. At the time, Basie's first great orchestra, known as the Old Testament band, had broken up because of financial problems. Basie hired Mr. Royal for his septet, and a year later, Mr. Royal, who was then Basie's music director, started putting together what became the New Testament band, one of the greatest and most influential orchestras in jazz.
        The Basie band was extraordinary because of its precision, a good part of which was attributable to Mr. Royal, whose warm sound led the saxophone section. He was extremely accurate rhythmically, and his role was to lead the other players through the arrangements. On a piece like "Cute," with its harmonized reed solo, it is possible to hear how influential he was. Mr. Royal was well known as a disciplinarian, and his attention and care for detail translated into a band sound that helped shape American music.
        Mr. Royal was a skilled soloist as well. His improvisations have a full, round sound and a sure sense of swing.
        He ended his association with Basie in 1970, when he moved to Los Angeles. For the rest of his career, he did freelance work with West Coast orchestras, including Bill Berry's big band, the Capp-Pierce Juggernaut and Ray Anthony's orchestra. He worked as a soloist with Warren Vache, with his own small groups and with Dave Frishberg. He also spent nine months in the West Coast production of the Broadway musical "Sophisticated Ladies." In 1992, he received an award at the White House from President Clinton.
        No immediate family members survive.
      