
        Robert Towers, a novelist and critic who taught several generations of students at Queens College and Columbia University, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Patricia.
        Mr. Towers, a transplanted Virginian who served as chairman of the graduate writing division of the Columbia School of the Arts from 1984 to 1989, established his serious literary reputation in New York with three well-received novels and scores of critical reviews and literary essays. But it was in the 40 years he spent in the classroom that he made his most indelible mark.
        More than 30 years after his student days at Queens College, Robert Boyers, a professor of English at Skidmore College and the editor of the quarterly Salmagundi, recalled Mr. Towers as a courtly presence in tweed jackets, buttondown shirts and wool ties, reading aloud from assigned texts, "held gracefully in the palm of his left hand while he gesticulated modestly with his right."
        Mr. Towers, who was born in Richmond, graduated summa cum laude from Princeton in 1945. He joined the diplomatic corps and spent two years in Calcutta observing the violent Muslim-Hindu struggles that became the basis of his first book, "The Necklace of Kali" (1960).
        By then, Mr. Towers had earned a Ph.D. at Princeton and begun his teaching career, first at Princeton and eventually at Queens College, where he taught for 20 years until moving to Columbia in 1984.
        Mrs. Towers, who met her husband on an island off Maine shortly after his second book, "The Money Watcher," was published in 1964, remembers her trepidation when he gave her a copy. "I wanted to read it, but I was afraid," she said. "I'd just met him and he was so nice I didn't want it to be bad."
        In the end she found the story of a cultivated middle-aged man who has an affair with a younger woman while his wife is dying of cancer so riveting that she stayed up all night.
        His third book, "The Summoning" (1983), was a mystery set in New York and Mississippi, where the hero tries to solve a 10-year-old murder at the behest of a ghost.
        Mr. Towers, who reviewed fiction for The New York Times and other publications, was known as a thorough and evenhanded critic, but sometimes he did get a bit exasperated. In a 1988 Columbia lecture given a reprise in a 1990 essay in The Times, Mr. Towers, who had read one lapidary gem too many about some small domestic detail, urged American writers to abandon "closet fiction doomed to be read only by fellow writers and academics," and to take on big themes to produce "large audience" fiction.
        In addition to his wife, who is the features editor at Elle magazine, he is survived by a daughter, Sarah, and a brother, Thomas R. Towers, and a sister, Margaret Talman, both of Richmond.
      