
        Ernest H. Martin, who with his partner Cy Feuer produced Frank Loesser's "Guys and Dolls" and "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" as well as other long-running Broadway musicals, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75.
        The cause was liver cancer, which had been diagnosed about two weeks ago, Mr. Feuer said.
        The partners became one of Broadway's most successful producing teams, with a string of popular musical comedies in the 1950's and 60's, including Cole Porter's "Can-Can" and "Silk Stockings."
        In a highly competitive Broadway world populated by packagers and promoters, they were creative producers, dreaming up projects, assembling talent and directly participating in all aspects of their shows. Mr. Martin was the initiator and then operated as the business head of the organization, while Mr. Feuer, who is also a director, focused on the execution of the musicals. "Ernie was the sparkplug," Mr. Feuer said yesterday, "and I was the engineer."
        "Guys and Dolls," which they produced in 1950, firmly established the Broadway reputations of the team, of Mr. Loesser, who wrote the score, and of Abe Burrows, who wrote the book (with Jo Swerling). The show ran for 1,200 performances, won the Tony Award as best musical, and became a classic of the American musical theater. "Guys and Dolls" has often been revived, most recently in 1992 on Broadway.
        The idea for the show began with Mr. Martin, who called his partner with the news: "I have here before me one of the greatest titles for a musical." The book in his hand was a collection of Damon Runyon stories, bearing the cumulative title "Guys and Dolls." Then they bought the rights to the stories from the Runyon estate, hired Mr. Loesser, and later brought in Mr. Burrows. As with all their shows, they nurtured the work on to Broadway.
        The first Feuer and Martin collaboration was Mr. Loesser's "Where's Charley?" in 1948, and their last Loesser show was "How to Succeed" (in 1961), which won the Tony Award, the Drama Critics Circle Award as best musical and the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. A revival of "How to Succeed" is currently running on Broadway.
        Mr. Burrows wrote the book for "How to Succeed" and "Can-Can," and collaborated on the book for "Silk Stockings." "Whenever the three of us worked together, we never had a flop," Mr. Burrows said. "There's something to be said for chemistry."
        Mr. Martin's chemistry with Mr. Burrows began in the late 1940's when he was director of network programming for CBS in Los Angeles and Mr. Burrows was one of his comedy writers. Mr. Martin prodded Mr. Burrows into becoming a performer on radio. At the time, Mr. Martin confided to his friend that he himself wanted to leave radio and become a Broadway producer.
        Feuer and Martin produced the Broadway version of "The Boy Friend," as well as "Whoop Up," "Little Me," "Skyscraper," "Walking Happy," Herb Gardner's comedy "Goodbye People" and in 1977 "The Act," starring Liza Minnelli. In the 1970's they were the managing directors of the Los Angeles and San Francisco Civic Opera Companies. They also produced the movies "Cabaret," "Piaf -- the Early Years" and "A Chorus Line." In 1966, as a dissident director of Paramount Pictures Corporation, Mr. Martin had threatened a proxy fight to take over the company.
        Mr. Martin was born in Pittsburgh in 1919 and attended the University of California in Los Angeles.
        He is survived by his wife, Twyla; three daughters from a previous marriage, Elizabeth Martin of Boulder, Colo., and Polly Martin and Cecilia Ford of New York, and three granddaughters.
      