
        Christian B. Anfinsen, a biochemist whose work with the building blocks of all living cells led to a Nobel Prize in 1972, died on Sunday at Northwest Hospital Center in Randallstown, Md. He was 79.
        He apparently had a heart attack at his home in the Baltimore suburb of Pikesville, said a spokesman for Johns Hopkins University, where Dr. Anfinsen was a professor of biology. Dr. Anfinsen had been at work in his office as usual last Friday.
        Dr. Anfinsen's speciality was the field of protein structure and protein folding. "His work is the prototype for the many studies that have followed and the work still being done in that area,"said Dr. Daniel Nathans, a molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins and himself a Nobel Prize winner.
        Dr. Anfinsen shared the 1972 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with two scientists who did related research at Rockefeller University, Stanford Moore and William H. Stein. At the time he was chief of the laboratory of chemical biology at what is now the National Institute of Arthritis, Metabolism and Digestive Diseases in Bethesda, Md.
        The Swedish Royal Academy cited Dr. Anfinsen, Dr. Moore and Dr. Stein for having helped to clarify the relationship between the structural properties of proteins and their biological functions. Specifically, Dr. Anfinsen established how the protein enzyme ribonuclease folds to obtain the characteristic three-dimensional structure that determines its function.
        Christian Boehmer Anfinsen was born in Monessen, Pa., the son of a Norwegian engineer. He graduated from Swarthmore College in 1937. He earned a master's degree at the University of Pennsylvania and, in 1943, a doctorate in biochemistry from Harvard University.
        In World War II he served as a civilian with the Office of Scientific Research and Development. He held teaching and research positions at Pennsylvania, Harvard and the Medical Nobel Institute in Stockholm. He headed the laboratory in Bethesda for the National Institutes of Health from 1963 to 1982, when he joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins.
        He had an association with the Weizmann Institute of Sciences and its American Committee dating to 1958 when he arrived at the institute in Israel on a Guggenheim Fellowship. He was an active member of the boards of both the institute and the committee.
        He was a past editor of the journal Advances in Protein Chemistry and served on the editorial boards of The Journal of Biological Chemistry, Biopolymers, and The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, to which he he was elected in 1963. He wrote many articles and books and received the Rockefeller Foundation Public Service Award in 1954.
        Dr. Anfinsen is survived by his wife, Libby Shulman Anfinsen; two daughters, Dr. Carol Crafts of Providence, R.I., and Margot Britton of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Christian of Dillsburg, Pa.; three stepsons, Mark Ely of Washington and David and Daniel Ely of Potomac, Md.; a stepdaughter, Dr. Tobie Beckerman of Washington; a sister, Carol Weightman of San Diego, and 13 grandchilden.
      