
        Jacques Berque, a leading French expert on Islam who worked assiduously to make the Arab world better understood by the West, died on Tuesday at his home in St.-Julien-en-Born in the Landes region of southwest France. He was 85.
        A tall elegant man renowned for his intellectual free spirit, Mr. Berque wrote a score of academic books about Islam and Arab civilization, but the crowning achievement of his career came in 1991 when, after 20 years' work, he published his French translation of the Koran, the Muslim holy book.
        He also used his academic prestige to speak out politically, defending Algeria's right to independence during its colonial war with France between 1956 and 1962 and, more recently, opposing French participation in the United States-led coalition that ended Iraq's occupation of Kuwait in 1991.
        Further, having been an early defender of the right of Arab immigrants in France to be "different" in a multicultural society, he eventually concluded that this policy was having an "apartheid effect" by isolating them in their own communities. "It's better for someone to lose their 'difference' than to end up in a ghetto," he declared in 1990.
        Born on June 4, 1910, in Moliere, Algeria, then a French colony, he became fluent in Arabic as a child and followed in his father's footsteps by entering the French colonial administration, working in Morocco from 1934 to 1944.
        After World War II, he moved to Paris and joined the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization as a Middle East expert. In 1953, Unesco sent him to Egypt. In 1955, having finally obtained his doctorate at the age of 44, he returned to Paris and, two years later, was appointed chairman of social history of contemporary Islam at the College de France.
        He remained at the College de France until his retirement in 1982, but he continued writing about the Arab world from his home in the Landes region. His best-known books include "The Mahgreb Between the Two Wars," "The Arabs, Yesterday and Tomorrow," "Egypt, Imperialism and Revolution," "Arabia" and "Islam in the World."
        French Government officials frequently sought him out for advice on Arab-related matters and he exercised enormous influence over an entire generation of young French Arabists. He also helped establish social sciences faculties in several Arab countries and was a member of the Cairo-based Academy of the Arab Language.
        For his translation of the Koran, he once explained that "you have to enter the Muslim mentality just as a good anthropologist must become an animist if he wants to study the Papuans." And he added, "I am a practicing Catholic, but my strength is that I have spent my life with Muslims and, for me, Islam is not foreign."
        But he was also aware of his limitations. "To translate the Koran can only be an attempt at translation," he said, "just as it is impossible to translate a poem except by writing another poem with the same aesthetic value."
        Mr. Berque is survived by his six children from his first marriage as well as by his second wife, the former Giulia Belmondo-Caccia, whom he married in 1980, and their son, Julien.
      