
        Gen. Juan Carlos Ongania, a cavalryman who was Argentina's repressive President from 1966 to 1970, died yesterday at the Military Hospital in Buenos Aires. He was 81 and lived in a suburb of Buenos Aires.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. He had suffered a stroke in May that had left him paralyzed and unable to speak.
        Shortly before then, he had withdrawn as a candidate, for a small rightist party, in Argentina's recent Presidential elections.
        General Ongania (pronounced own-gah-NEE-uh), a former commander of Argentina's cavalry corps and a former army commander in chief, was installed as President by Argentine military officers who took power in a coup that overthrew his civilian predecessor, Arturo Illia, in 1966.
        But four years later, the tables were turned and General Ongania himself was ousted, also in a coup, by Argentina's three-man ruling military junta, after unrest among students and workers.
        But while he was President, the general moved speedily to buttress his power with repressive measures extraordinary even in Argentina's dictatorship-studded history.
        In his first year as President, the police moved into the University of Buenos Aires and subdued and drove out faculty members as well as students.
        In addition, under President Ongania, the Argentine Congress was dissolved and all political groups were declared illegal. The judges of Argentina's supreme court were replaced; trade unions were curbed, and the press and the arts came under Government censorship.
        Adopting a hard-line, anti-Communist policy, General Ongania put through a law providing for prison sentences of up to seven years for the distribution of pro-Communist literature. And he barred Communists from working in the Government or in the nation's schools.
        General Ongania's aggressiveness generated growing resentment among Argentines, especially as more students, union leaders and civilian political figures were arrested. In 1969, rioting by workers and students erupted in Cordoba, and many observers said those riots became a factor in the general's ouster as President the following year.
        General Ongania was born on March 17, 1914, to a middle-class family, and he grew up on a small ranch near Marcos Paz in the province of Buenos Aires.
        He studied at the National Military College and became a career officer. He was made the director of an armored school in 1955 and was promoted to brigadier general in late 1959. He was commander of the Cavalry Corps in August, 1962, but was briefly removed from his command during growing political turmoil. The following month he led a revolt that defeated an opposing army faction and became army commander in chief.
        General Ongania helped put down an attempted coup and secured the way for elections that made Dr. Illia, a liberal democrat, President. But he became disillusioned with the Illia Government, resigned his commission and took power himself when Dr. Illia was ousted.
        In February of this year, he was put under house arrest for two weeks after accusing the Government of corruption and predicting that further popular unrest would keep President Carlos Saul Menem from finishing his six-year term.
        General Ongania was married to the former Maria Emilia Green, who is now dead, and was the father of three daughters and two sons.
      