
        Robert Powell, who defied all odds to beat illness as an infant, led an active life as a paraplegic and was vice president of the National Right to Life Committee, died on Wednesday at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. Mr. Powell, a lifelong resident of Galveston, was 45.
        The cause was kidney, liver and lung failure, said a spokeswoman for the National Right to Life Committee, the country's largest anti-abortion group.
        Mr. Powell, whose entire lower body was paralyzed since infancy, worked as an insurance underwriter until poor health forced him to stop about two years ago.
        He was elected vice president of the National Right to Life Committee in 1991 when the organization sought to widen its scope beyond the abortion issue by reaching out to the disabled. To that end, he directed the committee's national disability outreach program and was a spokesman for people living with his kind of affliction.
        Not long after Mr. Powell's birth, doctors found a large tumor in his chest and did not give him more than six months to live. The growth had consumed his right lung and attached itself to the spinal cord, rendering him paraplegic.
        Mr. Powell's will to live outlasted several more fatal prognoses and scores of radiation treatments. He graduated from the University of Texas with a dual degree in psychology and mathematics. He began his professional life in the university's Galveston medical branch, working with computers in the psychiatry department.
        In the early 1970's, he joined a group fighting a legislative move to make abortion legal in Texas. He later became associated with the Texas branch of the anti-abortion organization, which he had represented on its national board since 1988.
        He was active in local, state and national disability-rights groups, including Americans Disabled for Access Power Today. His articles on the subject appeared in several publications.
        Mr. Powell is survived by his mother, Agnes Powell of Galveston, and two sisters, Zach Powell of Fairfield, Calif., and Maggie Powell of Dallas.
      