
        Lincoln J. Ragsdale, who was trained as one of the pioneering black American fighter pilots of World War II and who later became a civil rights leader and entrepreneur in Phoenix and the Southeast, died on June 9 at his home in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix. He was 69.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his son, Lincoln J. Ragsdale Jr.
        Commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps in November 1945, he was part of the Government first steps to integrate the armed forces. The integration program, which began in January 1941, was made up of 1,000 black fighter pilots who were trained at Tuskegee Army Air Corps Field in Alabama and later distinguished themselves in Europe and Asia.
        In a 1983 interview with The Arizona Republic, Dr. Ragsdale described the lift the squadron provided for black Americans. "I remember when we used to walk through black neighborhoods right after the war and little kids would run up to us and touch our uniforms, 'Mister, can you really fly an airplane?' The Tuskegee airmen gave blacks a reason to be proud."
        He often said that such experiences helped move him toward the civil rights movement. As head of the Phoenix branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, he played a major role in organizing and leading sit-ins in the early 1960's.
        He made a fortune in insurance, real estate and mortuary businesses in Arizona, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas, among others. He served on more than a dozen boards, including those of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the National Urban League.
        A native of Ardmore, Okla., he graduated from Arizona State University and earned a doctorate in business administration from Union Graduate School in Cincinnati.
        Besides his son, of Sacramento, Calif., he is survived by his wife of 46 years, Eleanor Dickey Ragsdale; three daughters, Elizabeth Ragsdale and Emily Ragsdale of Phoenix and Gwendolyn Ragsdale Madrid of Prescott Valley, Ariz.; a brother, Hartwell Ragsdale 2d of San Diego and a granddaughter.
      