
        Dr. James Oscar Lee, an educator who became a leading figure in the National Council of Churches and the National Conference of Christians and Jews, died on Sunday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. A longtime resident of Brooklyn, he was 85 and had lived in a Gaithersburg retirement community, Asbury Methodist Village, for the past 11 years.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Lee was born in Washington and graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. In addition, he earned a bachelor's degree in divinity at Yale Divinity School, a master's at Columbia University and a doctorate in theology from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He was the first black doctoral recipient at Union.
        He had a teaching career as an instructor at Howard University, an associate professor of religion and assistant chaplain at Hampton University and professor of religion at Virginia Union University. He came to the Federal Council of Churches in New York in 1946.
        He served the council's department of race relations as field secretary and executive secretary and, in 1951, became executive director of the department of racial and cultural relations of the National Council of Churches. As such, he oversaw race-relations programs and worked with 31 member denominations and about 620 local councils.
        Dr. Lee was an organizer of the National Conference on Religion and Race and of the Delta Ministry, a race-relations project serving Southern churches. In 1965 he became a vice president of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, from which he retired in 1978.
        In New York, he served on the Board of Higher Education as an appointee of Mayor John V. Lindsay. He was a founder, in 1969, of Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. He was a director of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing, Brooklyn Psychiatric Center, Brookdale Hospital and the New York City Floating Hospital.
        Dr. Lee is survived by his wife of 63 years, Alice Worsham Lee; a daughter, Jacqueline Young of Brooklyn; a sister, Mabel Revaleon of Arlington, Mass.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      