
        Rene Firino Martell, who engineered the $850 million sale of his family's cognac company to Seagram in 1988, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Nice, France. He was 68 and a resident of Cognac, the small southwestern town that his family has dominnated for almost three centuries.
        Spokesmen for the family said the cause of death was a heart attack.
        An eighth-generation descendant of Jean Martell, the wine merchant from the Isle of Jersey who founded the cognac company in 1715, Mr. Martell, who took over as chairman in 1977, significantly extended the company's reach.
        By 1987 Martell, the second-largest cognac brand after Hennesey, was a household name around the world. But for all his marketing achievements in selling cognac, Mr. Martell outdid himself in selling the cognac company.
        Skillfully playing off rival bids from two giant suitors, Mr. Martell almost doubled the value of the company over six months of negotiations.
        The sale of the company began in July 1987, when Grand Metropolitan, a British wine and spirits conglomerate, acquired a 10 percent interest in a deal that put the value of the Martell company at $500 million.
        It ended in January 1988, when Seagram, the giant Canadian distiller, bought the entire company for $850 million, a staggering 36 times Martell's annual earnings.
        Mr. Martell, who was born in Cognac, was educated there, in nearby Bourdeux and in the United States before returning to Cognac, a town of 21,000.
        As chairman of a company controlled by 40 members of his family, who owned about two-fifths of its stock, Mr. Martell was regarded as a patriarch both to the company and to the town.
        "Monsieur Rene has been like a father to us," Jacques Durand, the proprietor of a Cognac restaurant, said when the deal with Seagram was being negotiated.
        Although Seagram indicated it wanted to keep the Martell family involved in the management after the sale, Mr. Durand and other Cognac residents predicted at the time that he had been too accustomed to operating on his own to report to distant corporate bosses.
        They were right: the sale to Seagram was completed in February 1988; Mr. Martll retired the next year.
        He is survived by his wife, Genevieve Caduouy Eymard, and five children, Flore, Antoine, Chantal, Elizabeth and Jean.
      