
        Harry N. Rosenfield, who helped create the school lunch program in 1946 and then supervised the resettlement of European refugees in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 83.
        In 1946, as the chief assistant to the Administrator of the Federal Security  Agency, a precursor of the Department of Health and Human Services, Mr. Rosenfield helped draft the legislation that created the school lunch program.
        Two years later, after serving as delegate to the United Nations Economic and Social Council in Geneva, he was named by President Harry S. Truman as Commissioner of the Displaced Persons Commission, which was responsible for supervising the admission and resettlement of refugees after World War II.
        By the time the commission expired four years later, Mr. Rosenfield and a staff of 2,500 had helped bring more than 500,000 refugees to the United States.
        A native of Brooklyn who graduated from City College and in 1934 received a law degree from Columbia University, Mr. Rosenfield gained entree to public service as a protege of Mayor Fiorello La Guardia.
        During his undergraduate days, Mr. Rosenfield met Leonora Cohen, the daughter of the renowned City College philosophy professor Morris Raphael Cohen, and they married.
        In 1942, after seven years as secretary to the Commissioner of the New York City Board of Education, Mr. Rosenfield, who became a recognized expert on education administration, went to Washington, initially as counsel to the Federal Security Agency's Office of Education and later as assistant to the Federal Security Administrator.
        After leaving Government service in 1953, Mr. Rosenfield entered private legal practice in Washington.
        As a result of his work with the Displaced Persons Commission, Mr. Rosenfield, who contributed many articles to education, legal and other scholarly publications, became a recognized expert on immigration law and a passionate advocate of liberal immigration policies.
        In the 1950's, for example, he was a co-author of "Immigration Law and Procedure," a multivolume reference work that has continued to be published through successive revisions.
        Yet his most lasting contribution to public policy literature may have been an aside in his last official act in Government service.
        According to Merriam-Webster researchers, a final report that Mr. Rosenfield  wrote to President Truman on immigration policy in 1953 contains the earliest known printed use of the term "baby boom."
        He is survived by a daughter, Marianne Smigelskis of Chicago.
      