
        Livingston Leroy Wingate, a Harlem civic leader, a former executive director  of the New York Urban League and a retired justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Justice Wingate, a resident  of Harlem since boyhood, was 79.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Justice Wingate, known to friends as Roy, managed to shoulder his way through doors usually closed to young black Americans of his generation. He overcame poverty to become an advocate for the downtrodden in his community.
        Justice Wingate was born in Timmonsville, S.C., the son of a barber and a maid, and arrived in New York at the age of 7 with his parents. After finishing  high school, he was a porter at Grand Central Terminal for seven years. Later, he worked as a skycap at La Guardia Airport while attending night classes at St. John's University. He graduated in 1946 and then received his law degree from the university.
        Justice Wingate opened an office on West 125th Street and frequently volunteered to do legal work for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and for unions.
        "He was a skycap at the airport, and he later went on to represent them and become an outstanding labor lawyer," a longtime associate, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, said yesterday.
        His law partnership with Thomas Weaver, Herbert Evans and Bruce Wright opened its doors on lower Broadway in 1956. Five years later, Representative Adam Clayton Powell became the chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor and recruited Justice Wingate to be associate chief counsel.
        He negotiated for a youth project in Harlem under new legislation aimed at juvenile delinquency and crime. He then served as executive director of the Harlem antipoverty agency Haryou-Act, which stands for Harlem Youth-Associated Community Teams; associate director of the Citizens Crusade Against Poverty, and, from 1968 to 1975, executive director of the New York Urban League.
        With the support of Mr. Rangel, he was appointed a judge of Criminal Court of the City of New York in 1975. He served as a justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan from 1982 until his retirement in 1985.
        Justice Wingate is survived by a daughter, Linda, of Arlington, Va.; two sons, Anthony, of San Francisco, and Livingston Jr., of Seattle, and a sister, Doris Wedderburn of Harlem.
      