
        Robert J. Billings, the evangelistic Christian educator who helped rouse the  religious right into a potent political force as a founder of the Moral Majority, died on Sunday at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Florida. He  was 68 and had lived in Haines City, Fla., since 1992.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Billings was a tireless organizer who was Ronald Reagan's liaison to the fundamentalist Christian movement during the 1980 Presidential campaign. He also served six years in the Education Department.
        Before he became politically active in the late 1970's, Mr. Billings was a missionary in the British West Indies, an itinerate preacher in the South and the Midwest and the president of Hyles-Anderson College, a religious institution he helped found in Hammond, Ind., in 1971.
        Mr. Billings, who made an unsuccessful run for the House in 1976 as the Republican nominee in Indiana's heavily Democratic First District, was working as the principal of a Christian high school when he was galvanized into action in 1978 by policies of the Carter Administration.
        Alarmed by plans to revoke the tax-exempt status of private schools, many of  them Christian, Mr. Billings formed the National Christian Action Coalition, packed his belongings in a trailer and hit the road with his wife to preach against what he viewed as a godless humanism dominating American life.
        Along the way, Mr, Billings, who once estimated that his efforts had led to the founding of 400 Christian schools, met and impressed other like-minded individuals, among them Paul Weyrich, Howard Phillips, Richard Viguerie and Ed McAteer.
        In 1979, Mr. Billings invited those men and a rising television evangelist named Jerry Falwell to a meeting, where they formed an organization known as the Moral Majority. It was armed with a plan to induce the Republican Party to adopt a firm stance against abortion as a way to split the voter-rich Roman Catholic bloc from the Democratic Party.
        Protestant fundamentalism had once been a powerful force in American politics, but had not been a major political factor since the death of William Jennings Bryant in the 1920's. With Mr. Falwell serving as the public voice and  Mr. Billings as its first executive director, it re-emerged, and the Moral Majority was widely credited with helping Mr. Reagan win the 1980 Presidential campaign.
        After Mr. Reagan's election, Mr. Billings accepted a position in the Department of Education as a coordinator of its 10 regional offices.
        "I hope I am Mr. Conservative at the Department of Education," he once said,  adding ruefully, "I am not high enough up the ladder to have a lot of influence."
        A native of Massena, N.Y., Mr. Billings was the son of a Mohawk Indian so poor that his son had to be reared in an orphanage. Mr. Billings, who traced his religious fervor to a camp meeting he attended in his early teens, graduated from the Allentown Bible Institute in Pennsylvania and from Bob Jones University in Greenville, S.C.
        He is survived by his wife, Charlotte; two sons, Robert, of Alexandria, Va.,  and William, of Fredericksburg, Va.; seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      