
        Lindsey Nelson, who brought his elegant Tennessee voice and psychedelic sports jackets to New York as one of the Mets' three original announcers, died Saturday night at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 76 years old.
        A staff person at the hospital said Mr. Nelson died of complications of Parkinson's disease, which he had suffered from for years, and pneumonia.
        New Yorkers knew the erudite announcer mainly for his 17 years with the Mets, but the versatile Mr. Nelson called four Rose Bowls, one baseball All-Star Game, two World Series, 19 years of the National Football League, weekly National Collegiate Athletic Association football games (with Red Grange), five years of National Basketball Association games, 26 Cotton Bowls and 13 years of Notre Dame football.
        "Of all the stuff I did over the years, the greatest identification I had wasn't with the Mets," he recalled in Curt Smith's book, "Voices of the Game," a history of baseball broadcasting. "It was Notre Dame."
        Before joining the Mets in 1962, Mr. Nelson called major league baseball from 1957 to 1961 on NBC, with Leo Durocher, Fred Haney and Joe Garagiola, competing with CBS's powerhouse broadcast, led by Dizzy Dean.
        In 1962, Mr. Nelson left the stability of NBC to join the Mets, along with Ralph Kiner and Bob Murphy, as the expansion team's first broadcast team.
        In "Voices of the Game," Mr. Nelson said: "Ralph, Bob and I sat down and decided we were going to level and be straightforward; we had a bad club and we had to say so. And it seemed to work. The Yankees were winners, we were losers, and yet by July 1963, we passed them in radio and TV ratings."
        Early on, Mr. Nelson felt he needed a prop to draw attention from the Yankees. One night, he said, he and his wife stopped in a Manhattan clothing store and said to the owner, "Show me all the old jackets you can find."
        He picked out seven of the most garish ones available and started wearing them to work. Over the years, he amassed 350 jackets, all dreadful.
        "We would see Lindsey and his flashy sportscoats at the Cotton Bowl," said Ara Parseghian, who coached Notre Dame from 1964 to 1974. "I had a great respect for him. He was a wonderful man."
        At his induction into the broadcasters' wing of the baseball Hall of Fame in 1988, Mr. Nelson said, "Sometimes, when I'm in bed, I hear a voice that says, 'Hello everybody, this is Lindsey Nelson along with Bob Murphy and Ralph Kiner from Shea Stadium in New York.' "
        After the speech, Mr. Nelson tossed an especially gaudy jacket to the hall's president to be included among the museum's bats, balls and gloves.
        Mr. Nelson's jackets may have been his signature, but Mr. Murphy said it was his work ethic that made him a success. "He had no tolerance for mistakes," Mr. Murphy said yesterday in San Diego, where the Mets were playing. "He was totally reliable. I don't think he was late once in his whole life."
        "He had a great enthusiasm for the job," Mr. Kiner said. "He was a tremendous guy to work for. We were very close. It was more or less like a family."
        After leaving the Mets, he called San Francisco Giants games for three seasons.
        "He left the Mets because he was so depressed with how bad the team had become," Mr. Murphy said. "He always loved San Francisco. As a city, it was his cup of tea, but I don't think he enjoyed it as much as he thought he would."
        In semiretirement, he taught broadcasting seminars at the University of Tennessee and, in 1985, called college football games for Turner Sports.
        Born in Pulaski, Tenn., in 1919, Mr. Nelson was graduated from the University of Tennessee in 1941, taught English, then served in the Army where he was a captain in North Africa and Europe. He also played on an Army baseball team managed by Harry (the Hat) Walker.
        After the Army, he organized a radio network to broadcast Tennessee football games and wrote for two Knoxville newspapers before joining Texas-based Liberty Broadcasting calling recreations of baseball games.
        Mr. Nelson's wife, Mickie, died in 1973. He is survived by two daughters, Nancy Wyszynski of Sautee, Ga., and Sharon Nelson of Chattanooga, Tenn.
      