
        Elizabeth Flower, professor emeritus of philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of a standard history of philosophy, died on Monday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. She was 80 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was cancer, said Prof. Gary Hatfield, chairman of Penn's department of philosophy, from which she retired in 1985.
        Dr. Flower, whose affiliation with the university dated from her student days, was the author with Murray G. Murphey of the two-volume "History of Philosophy in America" (Putnam, 1977). She herself was honored in 1988 with a volume "Values and Value Theory in Twentieth Century America: Essays in Honor of Elizabeth Flower" (Temple University Press), edited by Professor Murphey and Ivar Berg.
        Among her multitude of students, many of whom now teach around the country, was the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He attended her first graduate seminar, Ethics and Philosophy in History.
        "Martin Luther King's contribution to the discussion was solid and articulate," she recalled later. "Interestingly, questions of discrimination did not seem to have come up, but questions of peace and of conflict, of moral order and the effectiveness of a moral stance -- as in Gandhi -- were much in the air. And in all this his thought was already vigorous and well forged."
        Dr. Flower's teaching and writings were credited at Penn with having advanced the field of ethics. Many of her doctoral students went on to work in the ethics and philosophy of law.
        Professor Hatfield said she had carried on the Pragmatist school of philosophy in the United States.
        Elizabeth Farquhar Flower was born in Atlantic City. She received her Ph.D. at Penn in 1939, two years after she started her academic career as an assistant instructor. She received her promotion to full professor in 1974.
        Dr. Flower is survived by her husband, Prof. Abraham Edel; a stepdaughter, Deborah Edel of Manhattan, and three stepsons.
      