
        Arnold I. Dumey, an expert in the deciphering of codes who served the Government throughout World War II and the cold war, died on Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 88 and lived most recently at the Clearbrook Retirement Village in the nearby town of Cranbury.
        The cause was heart failure, according to the Institute for Defense Analyses, a Government-financed agency for which Mr. Dumey had worked as a consulting cryptanalyst for 25 years.
        The Institute for Defense Analyses is based in Alexandria, Va., and its sole client is the Government. It serves the Defense Department and the National Security Agency, and draws much of its expertise from the nation's universities. Mr. Dumey (pronounced DOO-mee) was attached to its Center for Communications Research in Princeton.
        A witty man who was sometimes frustrated by bureaucracy, Mr. Dumey once contrived what came to be known as the "Dumey microsecond," the fleeting moment between the point at which a good idea is dismissed as ahead of its time and the point at which it is dismissed as too late. His colleagues at the Princeton center say the phrase is now part of the institute's lexicon.
        Mr. Dumey was a message decoder for the Army Security Agency in World War II and retired from the Signal Corps as a lieutenant colonel in 1946. He was part of an elite group that saw cryptography evolve profoundly with the growth of computer technology.
        After the war, Mr. Dumey, who as a young man had obtained a law degree at Columbia University, worked for a time as a lawyer but continued to be a cryptography consultant. To take advantage of the field's vast technological advances, the National Security Agency in 1958 tapped the expertise of the academic and industrial communities by creating an arm called the Scientific Advisory Board, and Mr. Dumey was an original member. He served on the board for the next 20 years.
        Writing about the National Security Agency in "The Puzzle Palace" (Houghton Mifflin, 1982), James Bamford described the board's 10 members as "science wizards plucked from ivy-covered campuses, corporate research labs and sheepskin-lined think tanks." The board met twice yearly with the agency's top scientists to discuss the latest in science and technology as they applied to eavesdropping and cryptography, Mr. Bamford wrote.
        Mr. Dumey was born in the Bronx and grew up in Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia College in 1926 with a dual major in Latin and mathematics -- two disciplines, he liked to point out, that allow one to express thoughts with precision. He earned his law degree at Columbia in 1929.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Dorothy Kammerer Dumey; a daughter, Glenna Dumey of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Eleanor Dumey of Brooklyn.
      