
        Steve Silver, the creator and producer of "Beach Blanket Babylon," a San Francisco musical revue that has run to sold-out audiences for 21 years, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. Mr. Silver was 51.
        The cause of death was AIDS, said Charles Zukow, a spokesman for Mr. Silver's production company.
        Mr. Silver, a native of San Francisco who became a fixture in the city's arts and social scene over the past two decades, was noted not only for the cabaret he created in 1974, but also for his philanthropy and tireless efforts on behalf of many San Francisco charities.
        "Beach Blanket Babylon," believed to be the nation's longest-running musical revue, has been seen by more than three million people, including celebrities and dignitaries like Queen Elizabeth and Bob Hope.
        For tourists, the show in the 400-seat Club Fugazi in the city's North Beach neighborhood, has become a must-see destination, recommended by concierges in the area.
        For San Franciscans, the revue became a local treasure. "The show belonged to Steve, but many of us feel it belongs to us," said Charlotte Maillard Swig, a San Francisco socialite and former chief of protocol for the city.
        With its signature giant hats and outrageous costumes, the show is a series of musical numbers that parody cultural and political issues of the day. It is built on the paper-thin story line that has Snow White searching the world for her true love. Her search ties the show's skits together. Two essential ingredients are the outrageous and the downright silly.
        Mr. Silver included a skit built around an actor dressed as a Sony television set that is suddenly transformed into Sonny Bono. A wildly overdone Cher look-alike joins him onstage to belt out "I Got You Babe."
        Mr. Silver, who retained creative control until his death, continually updated the show. In one of the newer numbers, actors dressed as Bill and Hillary Clinton are accosted by Newt Gingrich singing "King of the Hill, move over Bill, goodness gracious, Newt is on fire" to the tune of "Great Balls of Fire."
        A former painter, Mr. Silver came up with the idea for the show in 1974, naming it after the Annette Funicello-Frankie Avalon "Beach Blanket" movies.
        Mr. Silver is survived by his wife, Jo Schuman Silver, and a brother, Roger Silver, both of San Francisco.
        Correction:  June 15, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Steve Silver, creator of the San Francisco musical revue "Beach Blanket Babylon," misstated the day he died. It was Monday, not Tuesday.
      