
        Dominic Tang Yiming, the Pope's Archbishop in exile for the city of Guangzhou, China, who personified the schism between the Vatican and the state-affiliated Patriotic Association of Catholics, died on Tuesday during a visit to Stamford, Conn. He was 87 and spent his exile in Hong Kong until he moved to San Francisco early this year.
        His death at St. Joseph Medical Center was reported yesterday by officials of the Roman Catholic Church in Hong Kong. The cause was pneumonia, said the Rev. Christopher Walsh, a spokesman for the Diocese of Bridgeport.
        Archbishop Tang, who took the Christian name Dominic upon his ordination as a Jesuit priest in 1941, was jailed by the Communist Chinese Government because he refused to renounce his allegiance to the Vatican. He was imprisoned for 22 years until he fell sick and was released in 1980.
        He was in Stamford visiting Ignatius Cardinal Kung, the Bishop of Shanghai, whose Chinese name is Gong Pinmei. Cardinal Kung was imprisoned for nearly 30 years until his release on parole in 1985. According to Father Walsh, the visit was to celebrate a triple anniversary for Cardinal Kung: his 65th year as a priest, his 45th as a bishop and his 15th as a cardinal.
        The two men were the best-known of the hundreds of Chinese priests persecuted by the Beijing Government for refusing to bow to a Catholic movement that severed ties with the Vatican and, in effect, placed the church in China under the control of the Communist authorities.
        The Government-sanctioned movement, as the Patriotic Association of Catholics, consecrates bishops and observes the sacraments but does not admit the authority of the Pope. One of the reasons Beijing seeks to separate the growing number of Chinese Catholics from the Holy See is that the Vatican recognizes the Nationalist Government on Taiwan. Still, there have been some subtle signs in recent years that Beijing and the Vatican are seeking reconciliation.
        Archbishop Tang was born on May 13, 1908, in Hong Kong. He entered a Jesuit novitiate in Spain in 1930 and studied theology in Shanghai, where he was ordained. He served as a parish priest, social worker and school principal in Guangdong and was named Bishop and Apostolic Administrator of the Archdiocese in 1951.
        He was arrested in 1958 after the Patriotic Association of Catholics summoned him to hear charges from members that he planted spies to gather information, opposed the "patriotic priests" movement, accepted his bishopric from the Holy See, sought to sabotage the land-reform program, obstructed Catholics who wanted to resign from Vatican-affliated groups and conspired with Cardinal Kung, who had been jailed in 1955 for similar accusations.
        He apparently was never formally tried in a court and his release 22 years later came because he suffered from cancer. He was permitted to move to Hong Kong months later for medical treatment.
        He recovered enough to travel to Rome in 1981 to report on the state of his diocese. On that occasion Pope John Paul II named him Archbishop.
        This prompted an outburst from the official Chinese Church. A bishop representing the Patriotic Association denounced the appointment, saying: "The Holy See's move rudely interferes in the sovereign affairs of the Chinese church. It cannot be tolerated."
      