
        Dallas S. Townsend Jr., who wrote and anchored the morning CBS radio news roundup for 25 years, died yesterday at Montclair Community Hospital in New Jersey. A former resident of Montclair, he was 76 and lived in Sarasota, Fla., after retiring in 1985.
        The cause was complications from injuries from a fall last week, a spokeswoman for the CBS Radio Division said. Mr. Townsend had gone to New Jersey on a family visit.
        He presided at "CBS World News Roundup," which was broadcast on radio nationally, from 1956 to 1961 and again from 1963 to 1982, with two years out to anchor its evening counterpart, "The World Tonight."
        In his 44 years with the network, he covered all the Democratic and Republican conventions from 1948 until 1984. He reported on the Japanese peace conference of 1951 and the start of the Vietnam peace talks in Paris in 1968.
        His rich, distinctive voice informed millions of Americans about two Mercury  space flights, four Gemini missions and two Apollo launchings. In addition, he covered atomic tests in Nevada in the early 1950's, and the inaugurations of Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy.
        Born in Manhattan, he grew up in New Jersey. His father was an assistant Attorney General in the Eisenhower Administration.
        He graduated from Princeton University in 1940 and from the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University the following year. He briefly worked as a  news editor at WQXR in New York before joining CBS in 1941.
        He spent World War II in the Army, assigned to signal and communications centers in New Guinea, the Philippines and Japan, and became a captain. He helped to set up advance signal centers in Yokohama and Tokyo immediately after  the Japanese surrender.
        Returning to CBS, he worked successively as a news editor, director of special events and manager of television news broadcasts. In 1954, he was named  a news correspondent. From 1982 until his retirement, he anchored several hourly news broadcasts.
        He received an Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award in Broadcast Journalism, a Peabody Award and an Armstrong Radio Pioneer Award for his work on the morning roundup, the longest running radio newscast in the country.
        "For 25 years, the voice of Dallas Townsend has meant intelligent, incisive reporting and editing on CBS's enduring and distinguished 'World News Roundup,'  " the duPont-Columbia jury said in 1983. "No other newsman in our day has had a broader acquaintance with news nor communicated it with more economy and precision."
        Mr. Townsend is survived by his wife of 52 years, Lois Bradley Townsend; three daughters, Katherine Hamlin of Greenbelt, Md., Patricia West of Miami and  Nancy Wilson of Upper Montclair; a son, Douglas, of Baltimore; a sister, Elizabeth T. McFadden of Bethesda, Md.; two brothers, Louis, of Washington, and  Robert, of Toms River, N.J., and 10 grandchildren.
      