
        Gurdon Wallace Wattles Jr., a former expert in international law at the United Nations Secretariat, died on Sunday at his country house in Amenia, N.Y. He was 75 and kept a home on Manhattan's Upper East Side as well as his home in Dutchess County.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Wattles retired in 1976 as principal officer in the Office of Legal Affairs after a 26-year career at the United Nations. He joined the staff in 1950 as the personal assistant to the office's Legal Counsel.
        He spent the late 1950's in Vienna as senior legal officer of the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. Returning to headquarters, he held senior posts in the legal and codification divisions before being named the principal officer in the Office of Legal Affairs in 1967.
        He provided legal expertise to the United Nations Secretariat for various international treaty conferences dealing with psychotropic -- or mind-altering -- substances, the law of the sea, and the Secretariat's Administrative Tribunal.
        He was born in Hollywood, Fla., and graduated summa cum laude in classics from Harvard College in 1942.
        He then became an officer in the Navy and served in the South Pacific. After his discharge he earned an LL.B. degree and, in 1949, a J.D. at Harvard Law School.
        Mr. Wattles is survived by his wife of 24 years, Santha Rama Rau, an Indian-born writer; two sons and two daughters by a previous marriage, Stuart Scadron-Wattles of Kitchener, Ont., Joshua S. of Los Angeles, Arabella W. Teal of Washington, and Katherine V. Wattles of Athens, Greece; a stepson, Jai P. Bowers of Philadelphia; and six grandchildren. His first marriage to Margaret de Vaulchiercq ended in divorce.
        Correction:  June 29, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Gurdon Wallace Wattles Jr., a retired legal officer of the United Nations Secretariat, misstated his birthplace. It was Hollywood, Calif., not Hollywood, Fla.
      