
        Robert Stokstad, a biochemical nutritionist who won renown for his research on folic acid and his work isolating vitamin K, died on Tuesday at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Lafayette, Calif.
        The cause was pneumonia, his son Robert said.
        Dr. Stokstad, emeritus professor of nutrition at the University of California at Berkeley, retired in 1980 but maintained an office at the university and continued to conduct research until suffering an incapacitating stroke in 1992, his son said.
        His research encompassed such subjects as water-soluble vitamin requirements  for chicks, antibiotics in animal nutrition, and dental nutrition.
        But he was perhaps best known for his 50 years of research on folic acid and  his participation in one of the two teams that raced during the early 1940's to  isolate the dietary factor responsible for pernicious anemia.
        Until 1926, when scientists demonstrated that consumption of large quantities of raw liver was a cure, the ailment was uniformly fatal.
        Afterward, researchers strived to discover the curative factor in liver. One  group isolated, purified and identified vitamin B-12. Dr. Stokstad and his group, working at Lederle Laboratories, isolated and purified folic acid.
        Folic acid, though used only briefly as a cure for pernicious anemia, is a B  vitamin that plays a vital role in the manufacture of nucleic acids and consequently in growth and reproduction, as well as in the production of red blood cells.
        In the 1940's, Dr. Stokstad's research also led to the isolation of vitamin K, which is essential for the formation in the liver of substances that promote  blood clotting. Like folic acid, it is abundant in green leafy vegetables among  other foods.
        Dr. Stokstad, whose full name was Evan Ludvig Robert Stokstad, was born in 1913 in China, where his father was a Lutheran missionary. A few years later, the family returned to the United States, settling in Santa Rosa, Calif.
        Encouraged by his father, he pursued a career in science. At Berkeley, he earned a bachelor's degree in 1934 and a doctorate in animal nutrition in 1937.
        From 1937 until 1963, Dr. Stokstad worked as a biochemist for such companies  as Western Condensing, Golden State and Lederle.
        Dr. Stokstad returned to Berkeley in 1963 as a professor of nutrition and served as chairman of its department of nutritional science in 1979-80.
        Among the prizes he received were the Osborne and Mendel Award and the Mead-Johnson Award of the American Institute of Nutrition, as well as the Borden Award of the Poultry Science Association.
        In addition to his son Robert, of Berkeley, Dr. Stokstad is survived by his wife, the former Edith Grandin; another son, Paul, of Rocklin, Calif.; a brother, Christian, of Annandale, Va., and three grandchildren.
      