
        Arthur J. Kropp, the president of the 300,000-member civil liberties organization People for the American Way, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 37.
        The cause was AIDS, said Matthew Freeman, a spokesman for People for the American Way.
        Mr. Kropp, who joined the group in 1984 and was appointed its president in 1987, led it through battles against the nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court and a proposed constitutional amendment to prohibit flag burning and in favor of the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 and the Civil Rights Act of 1991.
        Appearing frequently on national television and radio news and interview programs and writing opinion articles for newspapers, he also led People for the American Way in its efforts on behalf of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act and legislation allowing people to register to vote when they get their driver's licenses.
        Mr. Kropp directed a staff of 75 researchers, policy analysts, organizers, lawyers, lobbyists and communications experts.
        He joined the organization as its membership director and in 1993 initiated a major expansion of its grass-roots program, establishing networks of up to 100 branches in 20 states to combat intolerance and confront the religious right.
        Mr. Kropp, who was born in 1957 in Farmingville, L.I., got his start in politics as a Rockefeller Republican working in New York campaigns. While at the College of Wooster in Ohio, he served as chairman of the student campaign for President Gerald Ford in 1976. Upon graduation with a B.A. in 1979, he joined the staff of the Republican National Committee in Washington.
        Three years later he was appointed political director of the National Society of Professional Engineers, helping to involve its political action committee in more than 200 congressional campaigns.
        He is survived by his companion, Chris Bobowski; a sister, Laura Meyer of Smithtown, L.I.; three brothers, William of Holbrook, L.I., James of Farmingville, and Richard of Manassas, Va., and his maternal grandmother, Sally Laning of Las Vegas, Nev.
      