
        George M. Stafford, a Kansas Republican who was chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission from 1970 to 1977, died on Friday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Bill.
        Mr. Stafford, a longtime aide to Senator Frank Carlson, Republican of Kansas, was first named an I.C.C. commissioner by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967 and went on to serve on the commission in the Nixon, Ford and Carter Administrations.
        He was vice chairman in 1969. In 1970, he was reappointed a commissioner by President Richard M. Nixon, who subsequently named him chairman. Early in 1977, after President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, took office, Mr. Stafford was replaced as chairman. He remained a commissioner until he retired in 1980.
        During Mr. Stafford's tenure, the commission was criticized as improperly restricting the formation of new trucking companies, and thus limiting competition. Critics pointed out that companies spent millions of dollars to buy licenses from one another rather than spend far less to get their licenses from the Federal Government.
        Mr. Stafford defended the commission's performance and denied that the millions of dollars the trucking industry was spending to buy Federal operating rights ended up being passed on to the consumer in the form of higher freight rates.
        But in a letter to a chief critic, Representative Millicent Fenwick, Republican of New Jersey, around the time he stepped down as chairman, he conceded that one reason trucking companies were buying those rights from other companies was "the perceived difficulty in obtaining new operating authority from the commission."
        Mr. Stafford was born in Valley Falls, Kan., graduated from Valley Falls High School, attended a business college in Topeka, Kan., and was deputy director of the Kansas Sales Tax Department from 1939 to 1942.
        In World War II he was in the infantry and rose to captain. He was severely wounded in action in the Philippine Islands and won the Bronze Star and Purple Heart.
        After the war, in 1946, Mr. Stafford was executive director of the Kansas Republican Committee. From 1947 to 1950 he was executive secretary to Mr. Carlson, who was Governor of Kansas at the time. Mr. Carlson went on to be a Senator, with Mr. Stafford as his administrative assistant from 1950 to 1967.
        In addition to his son, Bill, of Bethesda, Mr. Stafford is survived by his wife of 48 years, Lena Lamendola Stafford; a daughter, Dr. Susan Stafford of Concord, Mass.; a stepson, Quincy Rodgers of Alexandria, Va., and five grandchildren.
      