
        John Vincent Atanasoff, a physicist whose pioneering computer research in the 1930's was overshadowed by the successes of wartime computers, died on Thursday in Frederick, Md., where he lived. He was 91.
        The cause was a stroke, said Steve Jones, a spokesman for Iowa State University.
        Working at Iowa State in the late 1930's and early 1940's, Dr. Atanasoff and a graduate student, Clifford Berry, invented a digital computing device called the Atanasoff-Berry Computer, or ABC, that could solve a certain type of algebraic problem. In the 1970's, a Federal court ruled that the device was a predecessor of the successful Eniac computer, voiding a crucial patent filed by Eniac's inventors and casting doubt on previous accounts of the early days of computing.
        There is no doubt, however, that Dr. Atanasoff's device was unlike the mechanical calculators of the era. It had a distinctive look, with two knobby rotating drums that contained capacitors. Electrical charges held by the capacitors served as ABC's memory, and data was entered using punch cards. To print out the results, an electric spark was passed through other cards; the arrangement of burned spots represented answers, which could be fed into the computer again for further analysis.
        Despite its strange appearance, ABC used the latest 1930's technology, including vacuum-tube switches that processed binary numbers, and it cost just $1,000.
        But ABC suffered from serious shortcomings: it could not be reprogrammed and it was unreliable when dealing with large problems. Critics later pointed to ABC's flaws when arguing that it was actually an electronic calculator, not a computer. Still, many computer historians recognizes ABC as the first electronic digital computer of any kind.
        The history of digital electronic computing is complicated because several major projects -- including Eniac, several Harvard University machines and a British computer called Colossus -- were built in various levels of secrecy during the war years. The two scientists who received earliest credit for inventing electronic digital computers were Dr. John W. Mauchly, who died in 1980, and J. Presper Eckert, who died on June 3. They developed Eniac to compute artillery trajectories and were later honored by President Lyndon B. Johnson as co-inventors of the modern computer.
        Fame eluded Dr. Atanasoff until Honeywell, a computer maker, successfully sued to cancel Eniac's patent. In 1990, President George Bush presented the National Medal of Technology to Dr. Atanasoff for his early work in computers.
        John Vincent Atanasoff was born in 1903 in Hamilton, N.Y., and received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Florida in 1925. In 1926, he received a master's degree in mathematics from Iowa State College, where he was teaching. He earned a doctorate in physics from the University of Wisconsin in 1930.
        He left Iowa State in 1941 and joined the staff of the Naval Ordnance Laboratory in Washington, and in 1946 he participated in atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll. In 1952, he established the Ordnance Engineering Company, which he later sold to the Aerojet Engineering Corporation.
        He retired from Aerojet Engineering in 1961 but continued to work on computers. He developed a phonetic alphabet for computers and in 1981 was awarded the Computer Pioneer Medal from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
        Dr. Atanasoff's first marriage, to Lura Meeks Atanasoff, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Alice Crosby Atanasoff; two daughters, Elsie A. Whistler of Rockville, Md., and Joanne A. Gathers of Mission Viejo, Calif.; a son, John V. 3d, of Boulder, Colo., and 10 grandchildren.
      