
        Laurence McKinley Gould, a polar explorer who led American efforts in Antarctica for many years and was also an innovative college president, died on Tuesday at a home for the elderly in Tucson, Ariz. He was 98.
        He was second in command of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's first expedition to Antarctica from 1928 to 1930. In 1930 he and his companions claimed an unexplored sector of Antarctica for the United States, but 25 years later Dr. Gould led the American effort to make that continent international.
        From 1945 to 1962 he was president of Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., developing it into a major liberal arts college.
        He held many leading positions in American science, including the presidency of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. He was a member of the National Science Board, which advises the National Science Foundation, and a trustee of the Ford Foundation and of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
        He was born on the family farm in Lacota, Mich., on Aug. 22, 1896, and at 17 went to Boca Raton, Fla., to teach in a one-room schoolhouse. Two years later, he went to the University of Michigan to study law and was offered a room in the home of Prof. William H. Hobbs, an authority on polar geology.
        In World War I, he enlisted in the Army Ambulance Service and in 1917 and 1918 he served with the Italian Army in Italy and the American Expeditionary Forces during the Meuse-Argonne offensives. On his return to Michigan, under Professor Hobbs's influence, he abandoned the law to begin studying polar geology.
        In 1925, after graduating magna cum laude, he received his doctorate and, in the next two years, went on expeditions to Greenland and Baffin Land. He was then recruited by Admiral Byrd for his first Antarctic expedition in which he set up an exploration base at Little America on the Ross Ice Shelf at the Bay of Whales. Eager to wield his hammer on the newly discovered Rockefeller Mountains to the east, Dr. Gould and his party flew there from Little America in a ski-equipped Fokker.
        Although they anchored the plane to the ice, a fierce blizzard lifted it into the air, its propeller turning as though flying. One of the party who had entered the plane to keep a radio schedule looked out and, he reported later, saw Dr. Gould "hanging onto a rope attached to one of the wing tips. He was blown straight out, like a flag."
        The plane, torn loose, smashed against the mountains and Admiral Byrd had to rescue the party in a larger plane.
        With five companions, Dr. Gould then led a dog-sledge party south to explore the Queen Maud Mountains and provide an advanced base for Byrd's projected flight to the South Pole. They followed the route used 17 years earlier when Roald Amundsen and his Norwegian companions were first to reach the Pole. In a cairn at Mount Betty, named by Amundsen, Dr. Gould found one of Amundsen's notes.
        He and his party marched east along the mountains until they were sure that having passed the 150th Meridian, they were beyond the sector claimed by New Zealand. There, in a cairn on a low peak, they left a note claiming this land as "a dependency or possession of the United States of America." They were not only the first Americans, they wrote, "but the first individuals of any nationality to set foot on American soil in the Antarctic."
        By 1955 Dr. Gould had changed. In that year scientists from the 11 nations planning to send expeditions to Antarctica for the International Geophysical Year of 1957-58 met at the Paris Observatory to decide who should go where. Dr. Gould led the American delegation, and from then on the United States, like the Soviet Union, made no territorial claims in Antarctica and recognized none by others. Subsequently, the claims issue has largely remained dormant.
        It was the Geophysical Year's "cooperative efforts in Antarctica, coldest of all the continents," he wrote later, "that witnessed the first thawing of the cold war."
        For many years Dr. Gould was chairman of the Committee on Polar Research of the National Academy of Sciences and headed the Special Committee on Antarctic Research, an international body that coordinates efforts there.
        In 1969 he and Grover Murray, a fellow member of the National Science Board, visited a deposit near the Beardmore Glacier where a vertebrate fossil closely resembling similar ones from South Africa had just been found. It was firm evidence that the continents had drifted apart and that Africa had once been attached to Antarctica.
        They excitedly radioed Washington that this was "not only the most important fossil ever found in Antarctica, but one of the truly great fossil finds of all time."
        As president of Carleton College, Dr. Gould became a champion of education that mingled science with the humanities. He said he hoped that by doing so we could "recover the Renaissance."
        During World War II he took two years' absence from Carleton College to head the Arctic section of the Air Force's Arctic, Desert and Tropics Information Center. His most recent appointment was to the geosciences department of the University of Arizona in Tucson.
        In addition to numerous honorary degrees, his honors included the Congressional Gold Medal, the David Livingstone Gold Medal of the American Geographical Society, the Cross of Saint Olaf, presented to him in 1949 by King Haakon of Norway, the Navy's Distinguished Public Service Medal, the Explorers Club Medal and the Gold Medal of the Chicago Geographical Society.
        Dr. Gould's rugged features testified to a life out of doors. His 1,500-mile sledge trip to the Queen Maud Mountains is described in his 1931 book, "Cold: The Record of an Antarctic Sledge Journey."
        In 1930 he married Margaret Rice, who is deceased. There were no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  June 26, 1995, Monday
        A picture on Thursday with an obituary of Laurence McKinley Gould, a member of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's first expedition to Antarctica was published in error. (It was also published in error on May 4, 1930, in a pictorial report on the expedition.) The picture showed another member, Charles F. Gould.
      