
        Group Capt.  Peter Townsend, the divorced war hero forced 40 years ago by the royal family and the British Government to end his love affair with Princess Margaret, sister of Queen Elizabeth II, died in Paris on Monday night, the British Embassy said. He was 80 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Princess Margaret, 64, who is believed to have always considered Group Captain Townsend the great love of her life, was said by a spokesman at Buckingham Palace to be "sad" at the news of his death. The Queen sent a private message of condolence to Group Captain Townsend's widow, Marie Luce, the palace said.
        The romance between the young Princess and Group Captain Townsend, a shy, handsome hero from the Battle of Britain who worked as the Queen's equerry, captured the public's imagination.
        Their mutual fondness became public at the coronation of Queen Elizabeth in 1953, when photographs showed the group captain and the Princess beaming at each other and laughing. At that time, the Princess was third in line for the throne, after the Queen's two children at the time, Charles and Anne.
        But though Group Captain Townsend was dashing and distinguished, he was also divorced, making him anathema to a royal family, and a government, still reeling from Edward VIII's abdication in 1936 to marry an American, Wallis Simpson, who was divorced.
        When Princess Margaret turned 25 and was no longer bound to do what her sister told her, it was widely expected that she and Group Captain Townsend would announce their engagement.
        Instead, having been informed that marriage would mean having to give up her royal rights and income and leave England for at least five years, she issued a statement, written in pencil for her by Group Captain Townsend, announcing that the relationship was over. "I would like it to be known that I have decided not to marry Group Capt. Peter Townsend," the statement said. "Mindful of the Church's teaching that Christian marriage is indissoluble, and conscious of my duty to the Commonwealth, I have resolved to put these considerations before any others."
        The statement went on: "I have reached this decision entirely alone, and in doing so I have been strengthened by the unfailing support and devotion of Group Captain Townsend. I am deeply grateful for the concern of all those who have constantly prayed for my happiness."
        Group Captain Townsend moved to Belgium, finally settling in France. He rarely spoke publicy of his relationship with Princess Margaret, but did refer to it in his 1978 autobiography, "Time and Chance."
        "She could have married me only if she had been prepared to give up everything -- her position, her prestige, her privy purse," he wrote. "I simply hadn't the weight, I knew it, to counterbalance all she would have lost."
        Peter Wooldridge Townsend was born in England in 1914, the son of a lieutenant colonel, and distinguished himself as a pilot in the Royal Air Force before he was 30. He shot down 11 enemy planes and won the Distinguished Service Order and two Distinguished Flying Crosses for gallantry. The R.A.F. rank group captain is equivalent to colonel.
        He sold his war medals for $35,200 and set up a fund for children who have suffered in war.
        After the war, he worked in a variety of jobs in the households of Princess Margaret's father, King George VI, and Queen Elizabeth II.
        In 1959, Group Captain Townsend married Marie Luce Jamagne, a Belgian woman said to bear a strong resemblance to Princess Margaret. The next year, Princess Margaret married the society photographer Anthony Armstrong-Jones, later Lord Snowdon, with whom she had two children.
        Princess Margaret's marriage to Lord Snowdon ended in divorce. Her niece, Anne, married and then divorced Capt. Mark Phillips. And two of Queen Elizabeth's sons, Prince Charles and Prince Andrew, have separated from their wives, the Princess of Wales and the Duchess of York.
        "In my opinion, this was the turning point to disaster for the royal family," said Harold Brooks-Baker, publishing director of Burke's Peerage. "After Princess Margaret was denied marriage, it backfired and more or less ruined Margaret's life. The Queen decided that from then on, anyone someone in her family wanted to marry would be more or less acceptable. The royal family and the public now feel that they've gone too far in the other direction."
        Mr. Brooks-Baker said that Princess Margaret and Group Captain Townsend corresponded from time to time but did not see each other until three years ago, when they met by chance at an official function. The next year both were at a lunch at Kensington Palace attended by several other people. Guests there said the two sat together on a sofa and "chatted like the old friends they were."
        In later years, Group Captain Townsend had a varied career as a wine buyer, a United Nations adviser and the author of six books. He lived for many years in St.-Leger-en-Yvelines outside Paris, and is survived by his wife and four children.
      