
        Arthur K. Shapiro, a psychiatrist whose work at Mount Sinai Medical School advanced the knowledge and treatment of Tourette's Syndrome, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. Shapiro was a clinical professor of psychiatry at the medical school and director of the Tourette Research Foundation. Tourette's is a neurological disorder that causes facial tics and uncontrolled movements as well as grunts, snorts and even shouts of obscenities over which the patient has no control.
        Working with his wife, Dr. Elaine Schlaffer Shapiro, Dr. Shapiro became convinced that the disorder was of a neurological rather than psychological nature. He developed a variety of medications to alleviate the symptoms and permit those afflicted to function more normally.
        The disorder was named for Georges Gilles de la Tourette, the French physician who first described it in 1884. Dr. Shapiro and his wife wrote extensively to dispel myths about Tourette's and to establish criteria for its diagnosis and treatment.
        One of his books, "Gilles de la Tourette Syndrome" (Raven, 1988), remains in print.
        He also was recognized for some 30 years of work on the placebo effect, a physical or emotional change taking place after the intake of a substance but not caused by any particular property of that substance. At his death, he and his wife were collaborating on a book tracing the history of the placebo effect from ancient priests to modern physicians.
        Dr. Shapiro was born in Brooklyn and graduated from City College in 1951. He received his medical degree from the University of Chicago in 1955. Before he joined Mount Sinai, he directed the Special Studies Laboratory at Cornell University Medical School from 1966 to 1977. Until a few months ago, he also was in private practice in Manhattan and Scarsdale.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Shapiro is survived by a son, Peter, of Manhattan; two daughters, Kaethe, also of Manhattan, and Moira Tollefson of Boulder, Colo.; a brother, Marvin, of Scarsdale, and three grandchildren.
      