
        Edward F. Gray, a former union official who began his career recruiting factory workers in New Jersey and ended it by organizing the elderly in New York, died on Thursday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Lois.
        It may have been his youthful experiences as a sharecropper and migrant farm worker in the Depression or simply something in his blood, but somehow, early in his life, Mr. Gray developed an acute and wide-ranging sense of social justice.
        In his years as a United Auto Workers official, Mr. Gray, who was first elected to the union's executive board when he was 26 and was later a regional director in New York, took a broad view of his role. He helped lead the union into the campaign against racial discrimination, was an organizer of the Labor Committee to End the War in Vietnam, and championed affordable housing for the elderly and the disabled.
        While serving as a U.A.W. area director in Buffalo in the late 1940's, his wife recalled on Saturday, Mr. Gray became so incensed that black workers were banned from bowling leagues sponsored by the American Bowling Congress that he established a rival, integrated bowling organization that helped prompt the A.B.C. to change its policies.
        Mr. Gray's union career began in his 20's, when he took a job at an auto parts plant in Trenton and promptly led a successful campaign to organize a U.A.W. local there. As the local's first president, he became an early and fierce supporter of Walter Reuther in the union's bitter factional wars of the 1930's and 1940's and won election to the union's executive board in 1943.
        Mr. Gray was defeated for re-election the next year and was in the Army in the latter stages of World War II. But with Mr. Reuther finally installed as U.A.W. president, Mr. Gray was named to the position in Buffalo, where he led a bitter 19-week strike at the Bell Aircraft plant in 1949.
        After violent clashes between union workers and strikebreakers, Mr. Gray was convicted of conspiracy to riot, but the charge was dismissed on appeal.
        Mr. Gray, who became assistant director of the region covering New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in 1955, became regional director in 1977 and was again elected to the union's executive board. In his years with the regional office, Mr. Gray, concerned that some auto workers in New Jersey had to commute long distances because they could not afford to live in the expensive suburbs near their plants, was active in the campaign against restrictive zoning regulations that prevented the construction of low-cost multifamily housing.
        After retiring from the U.A.W. in 1983, Mr. Gray brought a private-sector perspective to municipal union matters as a member of the New York City Office of Collective Bargaining's dispute settlement board.
        As he grew older and became more aware of problems faced by the elderly, Mr. Gray, ever the organizer, led the drive to establish the New York State Council of Senior Citizens and was elected its first president.
        In addition to his wife, a professor of labor relations at Cornell University, he is survived by a son, John, of Goldsboro, N.C.; a daughter, Lori Cauthorn of Tampa, Fla.; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      