
        Stuart B. Peerce, a partner in the law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
        The cause was stomach cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Peerce, who spent his entire legal career at Donovan Leisure, was chairman of the firm's corporate law department and a member of its executive committee.
        Mr. Peerce represented many of the firm's leading corporate clients, including the Pittston Company, Walt Disney Productions, Talley Industries and the Sterling Drug Company.
        He also represented the inventor and philanthropist Edwin C. Whitehead in several ventures, including the initial public offering for his Technicon Corporation in 1969. He also helped the Whitehead family establish the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research.
        Mr. Peerce was the lead lawyer on a Donovan Leisure team that acts as outside legal counsel to the trustees of the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust. That trust was created in the bankruptcy reorganization of the Johns-Manville Corporation, which had been the target of asbestos litigation.
        Mr. Peerce handled a broad range of financial and business transactions, like securities offerings, corporate acquisitions and divestitures. He held several management positions at Donovan Leisure, including chairman of the firm's finance committee and head of its lateral expansion committee.
        He was born in New York City, and graduated from Columbia College and Columbia Law School, where he was a member of the board of editors of the Columbia Law Review and was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar.
        Mr. Peerce is survived by his third wife, the former Lois Perlman; a son, Steven, of Seattle; two daughters, Marjorie, of Brooklyn and Carol, of La Jolla, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Pamela, of San Francisco; a former wife, Barbara Samuels of Scarsdale, and a grandson. His first wife, Barbara Poster Peerce, died in 1971.
        "Mr. Peerce was the lead lawyer on a Donovan Leisure team that acts as outside legal counsel to the trustees of the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust. That trust was created in the bankruptcy reorganization of the Johns-Manville Corporation, which had been the target of asbestos litigation."
        Correction:  July 22, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Stuart B. Peerce, a partner in the law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, misplaced part of a sentence in some copies. The affected paragraph should have read:
      