
        Walter F. Lineberger Jr., a Cleveland banker who was an Assistant Secretary of Defense in the early 1960's, died last Thursday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 82.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Lineberger retired in 1976 as chairman and chief executive of the Society Corporation, a bank holding company based in Cleveland. During his tenure the company's holdings grew to 12 bank affiliates from 4 and the company doubled its assets to about $1.6 billion.
        He established company employee programs dealing with retirement, a stock purchase and savings plan, group life insurance and disability insurance. Society was acquired last year by KeyCorp, a bank holding and credit-card processing corporation based in Albany.
        He was born in Long Beach, Calif., into a family that settled in America in 1735. As a boy he often traveled with his father, a Congressman from California.
        The younger Mr. Lineberger graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in Massachusetts and from Yale University in 1935. As a young man he was a Golden Gloves boxer and a bronco buster in rodeos.
        He started his banking career in Santa Barbara, Calif., and then enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School of Business in 1939. In World War II he served on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations and as a pilot and squadron leader, reaching the rank of commander before leaving the Navy in 1946.
        He then worked for 13 years as an executive at the Saalfield Publishing Company in Akron, Ohio, before resuming his banking career in Cleveland. In 1962, Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara named him Assistant Secretary for civil defense, a job he held for two years before returning to banking at Society.
        Mr. Lineberger is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Hunkin Coakley; two sons, Walter F. 3d, of Topeka, Kan., and Peter S., of Spokane, Wash.; two sisters, Janet Part ridge of Mill Valley, Calif., and Anne Macdonald of Old Greenwich, Conn.; two granddaughters, four stepchildren and 11 step-grandchildren. His first wife, Mary Saalfield Lineberger, died in 1993.
      