
        John J. Conway, a historian and educator who in 18 years at Harvard University befriended many of the students whose curriculum he helped to shape, died on Tuesday in Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 79.
        Dr. Conway, who lived in Boston and in Conway, Mass., had suffered a stroke the day before, said his wife, Jill.
        Dr. Conway held various teaching and administrative posts at Harvard from 1945 to 1963, perhaps most notably as master of Leverett House from 1957 to 1963. The Harvard houses are not just dormitories but are also centers of tutoring as well as dramatic, musical and athletic activity.
        Dr. Conway also served on Harvard's board of freshman advisers, the committee on general education and the committee on educational policy. In the 1960's, he was chairman of an educational policy committee's panel to improve the freshman seminar program.
        A colleague once remarked that Dr. Conway was "a scholar and teacher who sees no gulf between his life with books and his life with students." His walks on campus and in the streets of Cambridge were invariably interrupted by greetings from students, past and present.
        One event in particular endeared him to residents of Leverett House. At the start of an intramural boat race in 1963, Dr. Conway stood on the banks of the Charles River, cheering Leverett's eight-man entry. Alas, Leverett's crew members were ponderous of body and slow of oar, and when they finished dead last under a darkening, rain-filled sky, only one person stood at the finish line to cheer: Dr. Conway.
        Dr. Conway, a native of Toronto, specialized in Canadian history and in "the geopolitical forces that shape political cultures," in the words of his wife, a former president of Smith College and now a visiting professor of science, technology and society at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        A company commander in the Canadian infantry in World War II, Captain Conway was awarded the Military Cross for heroism in Italy. On May 23, 1944, he was leading an assault on a German machine-gun position when one of his men dropped a live hand grenade after being shot.
        Captain Conway picked up the grenade and hurled it away from his men, but it blew off his right hand. With his pistol in his left hand and a bandage on his right arm, Captain Conway led his men forward until the German gunners had been killed or captured, according to the medal citation.
        Dr. Conway learned to tie his shoelaces and bow tie with one hand and was an avid gardener, his wife said. Besides teaching, his passions were music, ballet, outdoor hikes, cats and dogs and "anybody who was generally curious," she said.
        Dr. Conway graduated from the University of British Columbia in 1935 and from Vancouver Law School in 1939. He practiced law in Vancouver before the war. In 1946, he received his master's in history from Harvard. He received his Ph.D in 1951, and his dissertation on a group of Englishmen who between the Boer War and World War I began to sketch the shape of the modern British Commonwealth, won Harvard's Jay Prize, given for outstanding scholarly work on British or American institutions.
        After leaving Harvard, Dr. Conway held teaching and administrative positions at York University in Toronto. A former member of the board of the Canadian National Ballet and the Toronto Symphony, he was at the time of his death a trustee of the Boston Opera Company. In his retirement, he did volunteer work at a hospice for AIDS patients.
        In addition to his wife, his survivors include two sisters, Lorraine Goldie and Marie Legg, both of Vancouver.
      