
        Lewis A. Engman, a former senior Federal official and drug industry spokesman, died yesterday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 59.
        The cause was a stroke, said a spokesman for the Generic Pharmaceutical Industry Association, a Washington trade group that Mr. Engman had headed since 1993.
        In the mid-1980's as president of another trade group, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, Mr. Engman promoted legislation to make it easier to market low-priced generic copies of prescription drugs that have lost patent protection.
        The result was the Waxman-Hatch Act of 1984, which added years of patent protection to certain brand-name drugs and also opened the door for speedy Federal approval of generic copies after the patents expired.
        "He was instrumental in reaching an agreement that benefited both the research-based pharmaceutical companies and the generic drug companies, and in the process, the public interest," said Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who sponsored the bill with Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah.
        The legislation, which was bitterly lobbied over several years by drug companies on both sides, split the big brand-name drug companies. Mr. Engman resigned as president of their trade group after it passed.
        Later, after the generic drug industry was rocked by disclosures of fraud and bribery of Federal regulatory officials, Mr. Engman headed an independent investigating committee in 1990. It recommended changes in procedures of the Food and Drug Administration and industry practices.
        Before becoming an industry spokesman, Mr. Engman was chairman of the Federal Trade Commission from 1973 to 1975 during President Richard M. Nixon's Administration. He encouraged competition affecting doctor's fees, prescription eyeglasses and drugs. He had been an antitrust and regulatory lawyer in Washington and his hometown, Grand Rapids, Mich.
        He was a staff member in the White House before joining the commission, serving as assistant director of the President's Domestic Council, legislative counsel and general counsel to the special assistant for consumer affairs.
        After graduating from the University of Michigan, he studied at University College in London and the London School of Economics. He was a 1961 graduate of the Harvard Law School.
        Survivors include his wife, Patricia Hanahan Engman; three sons, Geoffrey, of McLean, Va., Jonathan, of Waterford, Mich., and Richard, of Dallas; his mother, Florence Lewis Engman of Grand Rapids, and two sisters, Ruth Engman Simmons of Williamstown, Mich., and Signe Engman of Holland, Mich.
      