
        Vernon I. Cheadle, a former Chancellor of the University of California at Santa Barbara whose 15-year tenure was marked by rapid campus growth as well as student unrest, died on Sunday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara. He was 85.
        Dr. Cheadle, who lived in Santa Barbara, was an internationally known botanist. He was Chancellor from 1962 to 1977. In that time, the number of disciplines taught on the campus rose to 100 from 36, master's programs to 42 from 15, and Ph.D. programs to 27 from 2. Enrollment grew to more than 12,000 from 4,700.
        Student unrest over civil rights, the Vietnam War and a feeling of powerlessness against political and economic institutions swirled around Dr. Cheadle when he was Chancellor. In 1969, members of the Black Students Union occupied a campus building and pressured the administation into creating a black studies program.
        In February 1970, youths battled the police for three nights in Isla Vista, a college town of about 13,000 people, including 9,000 students, adjacent to the Santa Barbara campus. The violence left 1 student dead and more than 100 injured or arrested, and resulted in the destruction of several buildings, including a bank that was burned to the ground. The violence ended after Ronald Reagan, then Governor of California, declared an "extreme emergency" and called in the National Guard.
        After his retirement Dr. Cheadle returned to his botany laboratory, where he studied water-conducting cells in higher forms of plant life, like corn and grasses. His specialty was the morphology of vascular plants.
        Vernon Irving Cheadle was born in Salem, S. D., and received a bachelor's degree from Miami University in Ohio in 1932 and a master's degree and Ph.D. in botany from Harvard University.
        He taught at Harvard and Rhode Island State College before joining the University of California at Davis as chairman of the botany department in 1952. He was acting vice chancellor at Davis when Santa Barbara named him as Chancellor.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; a son, Dr. William Cheadle of Louisville, Ky., a twin sister, Mrs. Joseph Ruden of Billings, Mont., and two grandsons.
      