
        George Rodger, a pioneering photojournalist who covered World War II for Life magazine and later helped to found the Magnum photo agency, died today in his home in southern England. He was 87.
        Long overshadowed by two other co-founders of Magnum, Robert Capa and Henri Cartier-Bresson, Mr. Roger was best known for photographs he took at the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp when it was liberated by British troops in April 1945 and for his work with the Nuba tribe of southern Sudan.
        But wider recognition did finally come to him shortly before his death. Last winter, Phaidon Press in London published 260 of his photographs in a book called "Humanity and Inhumanity: The Photographic Journey of George Rodger." And the Barbican Art Gallery in London is showing 250 of his photographs as part of a major retrospective that runs through Aug. 28.
        Mr. Rodger was well enough to attend the opening of the exhibition on May 31, but friends said he had been in failing health for many years. After a life of travel, he had been living in retirement in the small English town of Smarden in Kent since 1981.
        Although a skilled photographer, Mr. Rodger was remembered equally for his life of adventure, particularly in Africa. "George Rodger belongs to the great tradition of explorers and adventurers," Mr. Cartier-Bresson wrote in a foreword to "Humanity and Inhumanity." "In spite of his impassive bearing, his emotions have become inscribed on film."
        Mr. Rodger was born on March 19, 1908, into a prosperous northern English family. He joined the merchant marine at 19 and spent most of his 20's in the United States. In 1936, he took up photography almost as a pastime, but when war broke out in 1939 he turned it into a vocation.
        From 1939 to 1945, he was a war correspondent for Life magazine, traveling in Africa and the Middle East before joining the Allied campaign in Italy and finally the Normandy landings on D-day. He photographed the liberation of Paris in August 1944 and continued with the Allied advance until he reached the Bergen-Belsen camp shortly before V-E Day.
        He was deeply affected by the experience and vowed never again to cover war. He said in a 1969 interview that he was photographing the dead and "living dead" at Bergen-Belsen when he stopped. "I suddenly thought, 'My God, what's happened to me? This is the end. I mean, I can't in a situation like this, all this absolute horror and ghastly horror around me, be thinking of nothing but lovely compositions.' I felt that was all wrong."
        In 1947, he joined Capa, Mr. Cartier-Bresson, David Seymour and William Vandivert in forming Magnum. Their first move was to divide up the world and, while Capa went to Southeast Asia (where he was killed covering the Indochina war) and Mr. Cartier-Bresson went to India, Mr. Rodger headed back to Africa.
        In 1949, he came across the Nuba people of Sudan. One of his most famous photographs, that of a muscular dust-covered Nuba wrestler being carried on the shoulders of another fighter, was taken at that time. Mr. Rodger continued to focus on Africa throughout the 1950's and returned there in the 1970's to photograph the Masai of Kenya. His work frequently appeared in exhibitions of Magnum's founding photographers.
        Mr. Rodger's first wife, Cicely, who traveled extensively with him in Africa, died in childbirth in 1949. In 1952, he married his American assistant Lois (Jinx) Witherspoon, who survives him, as do their three children, Jennifer, Jonathan and Peter.
      