
        Louis DeSario, the Staten Island representative to the New York City Board of Education and a former Superintendent of the Staten Island schools, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital on Staten Island. He was 64.
        He suffered a heart attack several months ago from which he never fully recovered, according to his family.
        Mr. DeSario had been appointed to the central board a year ago. He was the only member of the school board with recent teaching and administrative experience in the public schools.
        Mr. DeSario was appointed to the board last July by Borough President Guy V. Molinari to replace Michael J. Petrides. Mr. Petrides died in June 1994.
        Mr. Molinari said Community School District 31 of Staten Island had one of the leanest administrative staffs in the city because Mr. DeSario, who was its Superintendent from 1976 until 1991, believed in emphasizing classroom services.
        The two men were such close political allies, Mr. Molinari said, that in 1989, he persuaded Mr. DeSario to become a candidate for borough president.
        "It was a deep secret then," Mr. Molinari said. "But a week before the deadline he opted not to run, but instead to seek an extension as Superintendent of Schools in Staten Island.
        "Lo and behold," he said, "I wound up running instead."
        Mr. DeSario worked in the Staten Island schools for 36 years. Before becoming Superintendent, he was executive assistant to Superintendent William Mackolin from 1974 to 1976, and executive assistant to Superintendent Maurice Willin from 1971 to 1974.
        He was a community relations coordinator and also a teacher of math, social studies and science at Public School 18 from 1955 to 1971.
        A retired lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps, Mr. DeSario was active in more than a dozen Staten Island civic and professional organizations.
        He was educated on Staten Island, attending its public schools and later Wagner College, from which he received a master's degree in education.
        He is survived by his wife, Marilyn; two children, Frank DeSario of Staten Island and Doreen Delaney of Ridgewood, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      