
        Martin Bucksbaum, a pioneer in the development of shopping centers and real estate investment trusts, died on Friday at his home in Des Moines. He was 74 years old.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1953, Mr. Bucksbaum and his brothers, Maurice and Matthew, built one of the country's first shopping centers in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, using $1.2 million in borrowed money. They had been looking for a location to build a grocery store that would have been the fourth in a chain started by their father.
        Now known as the Town and Country Shopping Center, it was the cornerstone of a real estate empire called General Growth Limited Partnership, which now owns 21 malls around the country and has interests in other 19 retail property developments and 14 free-standing department stores.
        Mr. Bucksbaum was chairman and chief executive of a publicly traded real estate investment trust, General Growth Properties Inc., which has a 59.5 percent stake in the partnership. He and his brother Matthew, who is president of the trust, owned a 39.7 percent stake in the partnership.
        Under Mr. Bucksbaum's leadership, the real estate trust has recently pursued a rapid growth strategy, acquiring several real estate developments being divested by conglomerates.
        In February 1994, General Growth Properties acquired a 40 percent interest in Centermark Properties, which was spun off by the Prudential Insurance Company of America.
        And just last month, Mr. Bucksbaum negotiated a deal for General Growth Properties, in conjunction with several pension funds, to buy a package of regional malls and community shopping centers valued at $1.6 billion from Sears, Roebuck & Company. He had just returned from Chicago, where he was working on the final details of that deal, when he died.
        Mr. Bucksbaum is survived by his brothers and his wife, Melva; two sons, Gene of Bellingham, Wash., and Glenn of San Francisco, and a daughter, Mary Bucksbaum of Chicago.
      