
        Don K. Price Jr., an educator who devoted much of his career to promoting the role of science in the American Government, died today in the Newton-Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Wellesley, Mass. He was 85 years old and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years. He was a longtime resident of Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, according to his wife, Harriet.
        Mr. Price's work spanned the era in which Government-sponsored research led to the manufacture of atomic and hydrogen bombs and the exploration of space.
        As a lecturer in 1953 at New York University and as a professor of government and dean of Harvard's Graduate School of Public Administration (later the John F. Kennedy School of Government) in the 1960's, he both preached and practiced his message about the unity of politics and science. At Harvard he introduced an interdisciplinary graduate seminar in science and public policy.
        In a book published in 1965 by the Harvard University Press, "The Scientific Estate," he wrote: "The union of the political and scientific estates is not like a partnership, but a marriage. It will not be improved if the two become like each other, but only if they respect each other's quite different needs and purposes. No great harm is done if in the meantime they quarrel a bit."
        The Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations turned to Mr. Price for counsel on structuring the Government.
        In 1965 he was chosen to head the American Academy for the Advancement of Science, an association of 300 scientific organizations with a membership of about 100,000 -- one of the few social scientists to gain this post. He became president of the academy in 1967.
        He remained a professor at Harvard until his retirement in 1980.
        Mr. Price began studying contemporary government structures as a graduate student in England, then worked for two years for the Federal Home Owners Loan Corporation in developing a national housing policy. As a member of the Social Science Research Council he was a co-author with Harold and Kathryn Stone of a 1940 study titled "City Manager Government in the United States." During World War II he served in the Coast Guard.
        From 1945 to 1946 he worked at the Bureau of the Budget, where he helped draft the legislation establishing both the Atomic Energy Commission and the National Science Foundation. Before going to Harvard he served as assistant director and then vice president of the Ford Foundation.
        Don Krasher Price Jr. was born Jan. 23, 1910, in Middlesboro, Tenn.  He earned a bachelor of arts degree at Vanderbilt University in 1931 and then worked for two years as a reporter and editor for The Nashville Evening Tennesseean.
        He went to Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship in 1932, earning a bachelor's degree in 1934 and a Bachelor of Literature degree a year later.
        In addition to his second wife, the former Harriet Sloane Fels, whom he married in 1971, he is survived by a son, Don C. Price, of Davis, Calif.; a daughter, Linda Thomson, of Philadelphia; two stepchildren, Anna Fels of Manhattan and Thomas Fels of North Bennington, Vt., and three grandchildren. His first wife, the former Margaret H. Gailbreath, died in 1970.
      