
        Juan Manuel Fangio, the Argentine who was the first great race driver of the postwar era, died yesterday morning in Buenos Aires. He was 84.
        Fangio, the sport's only five-time world champion since the modern Formula One series began in 1950, died at a hospital where he was admitted last Friday after contracting pneumonia, said Marcelo Gaffoglio, who represented Fangio in the United States. He had been suffering from kidney failure for several months, Gaffoglio said.
        After winning his first world championship in 1951, Fangio repeated from 1954 through 1957. He retired after the 1958 season, saying the cars had become too fast and too dangerous.
        Although a handful of drivers later exceeded Fangio's grand prix victory total of 24 races, his triumphs came at a time when there were fewer races.
        The son of Italian immigrants, Juan Manuel Fangio (pronounced FAHN-jee-oh) was born June 24, 1911, in Balcarce, about 220 miles south of Buenos Aires. He dropped out of school at 11 to work as a mechanic's assistant, and in 1934 began polishing his driving skills by racing souped-up passenger cars on the unpaved roads of South America. After many successes in Chevrolets from 1940 to 1948, he had his first full season in Europe in 1949 in a Maserati, winning seven major races. Fangio eventually drove the finest racing cars that the factories of Mercedes-Benz, Ferrari, Maserati and Alfa Romeo produced.
        "He was humble, totally unassuming and a terror on the race track," said Fred Belair, who became acquainted with him more than 50 years ago in Argentina after Belair was injured in a motorcycle race.
        That unassuming nature reflected itself in Fangio's business dealings with the European car makers. "He would tell the racing teams: 'After you see me drive, you pay me what you think I'm worth,' " Belair said.
        The approach served Fangio well; Mercedes was so grateful for his achievements that it made him a distributor of its products in Argentina. That and other business contacts developed through racing helped make Fangio a multimillionaire. At the time of his death, he was the honorary president of Mercedes-Benz in Argentina.
        That he survived to enjoy his wealth despite racing in an era without seat belts and fire-retardant uniforms was a credit to his skills, the cars he drove and no small measure of luck.
        He missed most of the 1952 season with injuries suffered in a crash at Monza, Italy, and one of his earliest haunting memories was the death of his friend and co-driver, Daniel Urrutis, in a race in 1948 when Fangio skidded off a mountain road in Peru.
        Stirling Moss, the Briton who was one of Fangio's competitors, said yesterday that the Argentine's greatest victory came in the 1957 German Grand Prix at the daunting Nurburg Ring circuit when a lengthy pit stop left Fangio's Maserati more than 48 seconds behind two Britons driving Ferraris. Fangio broke the lap record 10 times to catch them and eventually win by 3.6 seconds.
        Besides his 24 grand prix race victories, Fangio also won the 12-hour sports car race in Sebring, Fla., in 1956, with Eugenio Castellotti of Italy and in 1957 with Jean Behra of France.
        In the cars of that era, Fangio would sit upright, his upper body exposed -- unlike drivers in today's cocoon-like Formula One cars. Driving in shirt sleeves, flimsy helmet and goggles, he would lean his body into the turn to help steer his speeding car through a corner.
        One of Fangio's greatest skills, besides his fine car control, was the ability to get the most out of a less-than-competitive or mechanically faltering car. He also drove within himself. "I never took an unnecessary risk," he said recently. "I always knew my limits."
        Dan Gurney, an American who raced Formula One cars in the 1960's and who now employs Juan Manuel Fangio 2d, Fangio's nephew, as a driver for his racing team, yesterday cited Fangio's "grace under pressure."
        Fangio was also involved in an episode in Cuba's revolution. On Feb. 23, 1958, a group of Fidel Castro's rebels -- attempting to cause international embarrassment to the Batista Government -- kidnapped Fangio from his hotel room as he awaited the Grand Prix of Havana. He was released unharmed a few hours after the race. His captors, whom he referred to at the time as polite young men, visited him in Argentina last year.
        In recent years, Fangio made several appearances at vintage motor-racing events, sometimes driving the cars that helped make him a legend. He also oversaw a foundation in Balcarce that operates a museum dedicated to his exploits and a technical school to train young mechanics.
        Besides his nephew, he is survived by a brother, Ruben (Toto) Fangio, and a sister, Carmensita Fangio.
      