
        Redfield Mason, an Indiana farm boy who helped the Navy break the Japanese military code in World War II and then won national fame when he won $100,000 on a television quiz show with an unlikely mastery of Greek and Roman mythology, died on July 9 at a nursing home in Warrenton, Va. He was 91.
        His family, who reported his death this week, said he had lived on a farm near Warrenton since his retirement from the Navy as a rear admiral in 1966.
        In a wide-ranging 45-year naval career, Admiral Mason, who grew up on a farm in Martinsville, Ind., graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1925, learned Japanese at the American Embassy in Tokyo in the 1930's and was decorated for his command of naval support operations in the Korean War.
        His most significant work came as an intelligence officer at the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations in Washington in World War II, but it would take a cryptographer to tell from the citation attached to his Distinguished Service Medal that the "important responsibilities" that he discharged with "brilliant skill and initiative," and the "important operations" to which he "contributed essentially," referred to his work on the Japanese code.
        That work was secret, but there was nothing secret about the acclaim he received in 1956 during a riveting series of appearances on the NBC quiz show "The Big Surprise."
        Week after week, as a young announcer named Mike Wallace asked the questions, Admiral Mason, who was then the Atlantic Division commander of military sea transport at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, demonstrated an exhaustive knowledge of the minutiae of mythology to a nationwide audience.
        Answering four questions about the Trojan War brought him $20,000 on Feb. 25, 1956. Naming the 12 labors of Hercules took him to the $50,000 level on March 3. Then, with $100,000 at stake on March 20, he was asked to name the women in six mythological triads.
        As the nation held its breath and Admiral Mason clasped his hands behind his back, he breezed through the Gorgons, the Harpies, the Graeae and the Graces. He hesitated briefly before naming the Horae, but finished with a flourish, naming Megaera, Tisiphone and Alecto as the Furies.
        What made the performance especially impressive, his wife, Truth, said yesterday, was that until a few weeks earlier her husband knew virtually nothing about mythology.
        "He had the ability to read a book once and know it," she said, recalling that her husband, who had been urged by his aides to apply for the quiz show, which allowed contestants to pick their subject of expertise, had virtually assured his success by selecting mythology and then cramming for it.
        "He said it was a finite subject that didn't change," she recalled.
        Besides his wife, Admiral Mason is survived by a son, Michael, of New York City; two daughters, Virginia, of Warrenton, and Jo Anne, of Portland, Ore., and a granddaughter.
      