
        Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis. She was 81 and lived in Memphis.
        She had suffered a brief illness, said Ronald A. Walter, the co-author of one of her books.
        Miss Church was the last survivor of a family of black Tennesseans who were prominent in business and Republican politics when few Southern blacks were active in either business or the party.
        With her aunt, Annette E. Church, she wrote a biography of her grandfather and father, "The Robert R. Churches of Memphis: A Father and Son Who Achieved in Spite of Race" (Burke's, 1974). She also wrote, with Mr. Walter, "Nineteenth-Century Memphis Families of Color, 1850-1900" (Burke's; 2d ed., 1989).
        Miss Church, whose full name was Sara Roberta Church, was born in Memphis and received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from Northwestern University. Her grandfather, Robert R. Sr., founded Memphis's first black bank and was believed to be the first black millionaire in the South.
        Her father was an early civil rights leader; in 1916 he formed the Lincoln League to register and organize voters, and in 1917 he founded Tennessee's first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        He died in 1952 while campaigning for a seat on the Republican State Executive Committee. Miss Church took over the campaign and was elected in his stead to represent Memphis and surrounding Shelby County.
        In 1953 she was named by the Eisenhower Administration to promote equal employment opportunities as a Labor Department consultant. In 1961 she started a Civil Service career as an administrator of Federal-state programs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, later the Department of Health and Human Services. She retired in 1982.
        Miss Cook also served two terms under President Richard M. Nixon as a member of his Advisory Council on Adult Education.
      