
        Dr. George W. Crane, a self-described "overeducated farmer," who dispensed modern advice to the lovelorn and old-fashioned horse sense to everybody else through a series of syndicated newspaper columns for some 60 years, died on Monday at his farm outside Hillsboro, Ind.
        He had continued distributing such columns as "The Worry Clinic," and "Horse Sense," until shortly before his death at the age of 94.
        "The quantity of his life finally exceeded its quality," his son Philip, the Republican Congressman from Illinois, said yesterday.
        Dr. Crane, a native of Chicago who was a trained psychologist and a physician, maintained only a limited private practice. He reached a wider group of patients with his "Worry Clinic" columns which were carried by some 250 newspapers at their peak in the 1940's and 1950's.
        In a varied and innovative career in which he never strayed far from a rock-ribbed belief in what he regarded as fundamental conservative values, Dr. Crane also wrote campaign speeches for Calvin Coolidge, taught the adult Bible class at the Chicago Methodist Temple for 35 years, operated a computerized matchmaking service, taught adult psychology at Northwestern University and lectured nightly to his five children at the family dinner table in Chicago.
        Representative Crane recalled yesterday that an entire side of the room where they ate was covered by a blackboard which his father used to illustrate points on whatever topic was on Dr. Crane's mind that day, generally one with conservative lesson built in.
        When he was running for President in 1979, Representative Crane credited his father with nurturing his own conservatism.
        "Kids often grow up and rebel against their parents," he said. "But when we grew up, our values were, if anything, firmer than Dad's."
        It would he hard to imagine anyone with values as firm as Dr. Crane's were in 1937, when he became so incensed with President Franklin D. Roosevelt's plan to add justices to the Supreme Court that he took a second mortgage on his house to finance a mass mailing in opposition to the plan.
        Dr. Crane's conservative lessons were not limited to the dinner table. He did not give his children allowances, but posted a series of incentives, literally. His daughter, Judith Ross, recalled that nickels would be taped to window panes to be claimed by the child who cleaned them.
        For all his erudition, Dr. Crane, who earned four degrees from Northwestern University, including an M.D. and a Ph.D. in psychology, liked to say that he learned most of what he needed to know working as a farm hand during summer vacations from high school and college.
        It gave him the "horse sense," that formed the basis of one of his popular newspaper features, a series of multiple choice questions whose answers depended more on logical deduction than specific knowledge.
        Dr. Crane, a lifelong teetotaler who lost newspaper outlets when he joined a campaign to ban liquor advertising, was a firm believer in character, but could be forgiving.
        When his son, Daniel, then a Republican Congressman, admitted in 1983 that he had had an affair with a 17-year-old Congressional page, Dr. Crane defended his son, with a political dig. "Washington is the Sodom and Gomorrah of today," he said. "Maybe he'll appreciate Teddy Kennedy now."
        One of Dr. Crane's more unusual forays occurred when a pair of columns in 1950 providing thumbnail sketches of men and women who had written him complaining they had been unable to find mates drew a huge response from readers.
        The result was the Scientific Marriage Foundation, which used a computer to match men and women based on their answers to elaborate questionaires and the personal observations of a nationwide panel of ministers, priests and rabbis who served as local representatives.
        In addition to Mrs. Ross of Downers Grove, Ill., Philip and Daniel, now a dentist in Danville, Ill., Dr. Crane, whose son, George 4th, a Marine pilot, died in a crash at an air show in 1956, is survived by another son, David, a psychiatrist of Martinsville, Ind.; a brother, John; a sister, Mildred Palmer, 22 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      