
        Maggie Keswick, a Scots-born connoisseur of China and its sensuous, mysterious gardens, died on July 8 in London. She was 53 and had homes in London, Santa Monica, Calif., and Wellfleet, Mass.
        The cause was breast cancer, said John Taylor Williams of Palmer & Dodge, the family's legal counsel in Boston.
        Margaret Keswick Jencks hailed from a family that has lived and done business in China for nearly 140 years. She was born in Cowhill, Scotland, but spent much of her early life in post-revolutionary China.
        She became known in the United States with the appearance of her book "The Chinese Garden" (1978), which was richly embellished by her own photography.
        "Miss Keswick's is no ordinary garden tour," a reviewer for The New York Times wrote, "but a first-rate job of intellect, intelligently illustrated."
        The book was reissued in paperback by St. Martin's Press in 1986 and remains in print.
        Miss Keswick's father, Sir John Keswick, was a major trader at the head of the Scottish company Jardine Matheson. He spoke Chinese and became a trusted friend of Zhou Enlai, Mao Zedong's most influential advisor.
        In 1982, she edited "The Thistle and the Jade," a history of Jardine Matheson on its 150th anniversary. She also contributed to the "Oxford Garden Companion" and to books by her husband, Charles Alexander Jencks, a post-modernist architect and professor at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Architecture.
        For many years she was the chairwoman of the Keswick Foundation, based in Hong Kong. She established the first cancer hospice there and extended the foundation's work to China. Most recently she created a cancer-care center in Edinburgh, where she was undergoing hospital treatment.
        She was educated at Oxford University, where she studied Middle English, and at the Architectural Association in London. After "The Chinese Garden" was published, she lectured widely in the United States.
        She was also in demand as a garden designer, collaborating with Frank Gehry, the architect, and Claes Oldenburg, the artist.
        She is survived by her husband; a son, John; a daughter, Lily Clare; two stepsons, Cosmo and Justin Jencks, all of London, and her mother, Clare Lady Keswick of Portrack, Scotland.
      