
        Rabbi Baruch M. Korff, a confidant of President Richard M. Nixon who was a loquacious defender of him in the Watergate scandal, died yesterday at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 81.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Zamira Korff.
        Mr. Nixon wrote in his book "RN: The Memoirs of Richard Nixon" (Grosset & Dunlap, 1978) that on August 6, 1974, after he had decided to resign as President, Rabbi Korff came to see him, having learned the decision. Mr. Nixon gave this account of their talk:
        "Rabbi Korff summoned his usual eloquence and said that although he would accept whatever I decided, he felt obligated to say what he thought. 'You will be sinning against history if you allow the partisan cabal in Congress and the jackals in the media to force you from office,' he said.
        "He spoke with the fire of an Old Testament prophet, but he saw that my mind was made up. He said that if I did resign, I owed it to my supporters to do it with my head high, and not just slip away."
        Mr. Nixon resigned on Aug. 9.
        Earlier that year, Rabbi Korff, a Ukraine-born Orthodox rabbi, founded the National Citizens Committee for Fairness to the Presidency, with the mission of generating support for the beleaguered President. He also was active in raising money to pay for Mr. Nixon's legal expenses.
        Mr. Nixon was heard to refer to Rabbi Korff, early in early 1974, as "my rabbi," and a White House aide called the rabbi "a giant."
        But he also came in for criticism in that era. For instance, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, called him an "apologist for rampant immorality" and suggested that many people in the Jewish community were embarrassed by his actions and statements.
        But in January 1975, the rabbi, who was still in touch with Mr. Nixon, said that his own belief was that Mr. Nixon had "misused his power" and that Watergate was "wrong," but that he did not think Mr. Nixon had committed crimes.
        The two men first met in the late 1960's. The rabbi, his daughter said in an interview yesterday, "felt a kinship to President Nixon in no small part because of his aid to Israel."
        Last month the rabbi asserted that Diane Sawyer, as a Nixon press aide, had been the informer, dubbed Deep Throat, who had helped The Washington Post investigate the Watergate affair. Ms. Sawyer, now a television journalist, contended that the rabbi's assertion was ridiculous.
        Rabbi Korff wrote several books, including "Flight from Fear" (1953), "The Personal Nixon" (1974)" and "The President and I," which was printed earlier this year by Ktav Publishing in Hoboken, N.J.
        Born in 1914, the rabbi, his daughter said, was sent to Poland as a boy after seeing his mother killed in anti-Jewish violence in Ukraine. In 1926, he followed his father to the United States. After religious studies, he was ordained a rabbi in Poland in 1936, according to records of a synagogue in New Hampshire where he once served.
        After helping rescue Jews from Nazism in World War II, and pro-Zionist activities, he went on to serve a congregation in Taunton, Mass., from 1953 to 1971, when he retired.
        He was twice married and divorced.
        In addition to his daughter Zamira, of Boston, his survivors include two other daughters, Joy Weber and Marilyn Marsden, both of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      