
        Barney Simon, a leader in South African theater and an imaginative thorn in the side of the authorities during the apartheid years, died on Friday at Milpark Hospital here. He was 63.
        Mr. Simon, who had undergone heart bypass surgery two weeks ago, died of a pulmonary embolism, said Hillary Hamburger, a friend who drove him to the hospital on Wednesday.
        Mr. Simon was a founder in 1976 of the pioneering Market Theater, a bustling complex occupying part of a defunct Indian produce market that became South Africa's only theater with an international reputation. He is best remembered for defying the law and producing works by writers who attacked the hypocrisy of apartheid and for running a theater where blacks and whites shared the stage and performed for multiracial audiences.
        Mr. Simon's name was not as familiar in the United States as those of Athol Fugard or Nadine Gordimer -- although he directed Mr. Fugard's plays and film versions of some of Ms. Gordimer's novels -- but he was the moving force of dissident theater in South Africa. Before he acquired the Market Theater in 1976, he staged multi-racial plays anywhere he could: in warehouses and shantytowns, storefronts and backyards.
        Mr. Fugard, who worked with Mr. Simon for 37 years, recalled today: "I remember Barney pasting cardboard egg crates to the windows of a little attic for soundproofing because we were competing with a tribal dance from a mine compound next door. I can't think of a single young playwright or actor, white or black, who isn't indebted to Barney. And that includes an old warhorse like myself."
        Mr. Simon loved the theater as much as he loved tweaking the authorities, and he threw himself into every aspect of his work. His friends recalled today a time when he staged a play in the backyard of a dissident under house arrest so the man could watch it out the window, and another incident when he posed as a headwaiter in a restaurant next door to a performance space to hush up the noisy diner whose complaints were drowning out his production of "Antigone."
        During the worst years of apartheid, the Market Theater was one of the few places where whites and blacks could mix on equal terms; in a world of legislated abnormality, it was a reminder of civil standards of behavior. In the 1980's it became, in effect, an exporter of black opposition theater, with Mr. Fugard's plays, Mbongeni Ngema's "Sarafina!," and "Woza Albert!" -- by Mr. Ngema and Percy Mtwa in collaboration with Mr. Simon -- among the best examples.
        "South Africa is an appalling place in an appalling world," Mr. Simon said in a 1984 interview. "I have friends who have been arrested. I have friends who have been blown up. One is surrounded by these grotesque biographies. And yet South Africa's an exhilarating place because everything happens in open confrontation. You know where you stand. We're not going to overthrow the government through theater, but people will understand each other more."
        Despite his flouting of laws separating the races, Mr. Simon was never arrested, said Mannie Manim, a university professor and producer who was Mr. Simon's partner and the co-founder of the Market Theater. "We lived a sort of charmed life that way," Mr. Manim said today. "Even when the police investigated us, they'd play good cop and bad cop and the good cop would tell us about loopholes in the law. One of them mentioned, for example, that under the Group Areas Act, we were allowed to mix races because, as a market, we were in a light industrial area. Given the country's labor situation, you couldn't make an industrial area a 'whites only' one, you know."
        The Market Theater has always struggled financially. Under the National Party's rule, it was not offered the fairly generous subsidies given to opera companies, symphonies and more conventional theaters; Mr. Simon said he would have rejected one anyway. Since the 1994 elections, little money has been available for artistic subsidies, but today, in an ironic coincidence that Mr. Simon would no doubt have appreciated, the theater was awarded a government subsidy of about $825,000, a major boost for its budget.
        In a talk to the staff at the Market today, Mr. Kani recalled Mr. Simon as the only man who would give a black actor like himself a job outside township church halls.
        Mr. Simon could be an elegant speaker with a biting style. In March, the Market Theater was the recipient of a $50,000 award given by Jujamcyn Theaters, the third-largest theater chain in New York City.  Mr. Simon accepted the award for the theater, saying: "Johannesbug was not founded beside a river or a bay as sensible and decent cities should. It was built on a barren stretch of land because gold was found beneath it. And because of that gold, the greediest and most dangerous men in the world gathered. And here's a miracle. Despite our beginnings, our landscape, our grace, is our people. Multiple, vivid, absurd, treacherous, generous, adventurous, divinely pragmatic and always capable of our sound of survival -- laughter. We who began the Market Theater did it out of our love for this landscape and committed ourselves to it."
        Mr. Simon was the author of the play "Born in the R.S.A." and a collection of short stories called "Joburg Sis."
        He is survived by a brother, Morris, a professor of radiology at the Harvard Medical School.
        When "Woza Albert!," a chronicle of black experience under apartheid, was produced Off Broadway in 1984, Mr. Simon described the work as "a positive vision" and added: "It talks about the horrors of South Africa, but also the strength of the black people there. It talks about the gift of life and the abuse of life. I hope that my work can celebrate the gift of life without forgetting the abuse of life."
      