
        Deputy Defense Minister Mordechai Gur, a former army Chief of Staff and the general who led the capture of the Old City of Jerusalem in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, killed himself today, weary of a long battle with cancer. He was 65.
        The Israeli police said Mr. Gur had shot himself in the head with his pistol in the garden of his home in Tel Aviv. He left a note saying he did not want to be a burden to his family. Mr. Gur had undergone cancer treatment in recent years, and although he continued working, he was visibly weakened by the disease.
        At the weekly Cabinet meeting today, ministers stood for a moment of silence. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin paid tribute to Mr. Gur, who had been his partner for decades in the army, politics and government.
        "Motta was a special man, sensitive and strong," Mr. Rabin said, using Mr. Gur's nickname. "A soldier and citizen, a lover of the book and of writing and, above all, a friend who you knew was always with you and beside you."
        Mr. Rabin later eulogized Mr. Gur as he was buried with full military honors in Tel Aviv. "You have fallen in the line of duty," Mr. Rabin said. "I salute you for the last time."
        Serving under Mr. Rabin, who is also Defense Minister, Mr. Gur was responsible in recent years for security arrangements for Jewish settlers as part of Israel's self-rule agreement with the Palestine Liberation Organization. He met regularly with the settlers, taking their concerns to Mr. Rabin while clarifying Government policies to them.
        Settler leaders described him as a friend who had helped them despite political differences over the agreements with the P.L.O.
        "He sensed our great predicament and tried to ease it as much as possible," said Yisrael Harel, chairman of the Council of Jewish Communities in Judea, Samaria and Gaza, the settlers' umbrella group.
        As a general in the 1967 war, Mr. Gur commanded paratroopers who captured the Old City, including the Western Wall and the ancient structure called the Temple Mount by Jews and Haram al-Sharif by Muslims, two of Judaism's most revered sites. He is remembered by many Israelis for his dramatic cry over a crackling radio set: "The Temple Mount is in our hands!" The report was replayed today in news broadcasts.
        During his term as the 10th Chief of Staff of the Israeli Army, from 1974 to 1978, Mr. Gur directed a daring rescue of 102 airline passengers who had been hijacked to Entebbe, Uganda, in 1976. In 1978 he guided a campaign in Lebanon to drive out Palestinian guerrillas. Earlier, he oversaw the rebuilding of the army after the heavy losses and demoralization it suffered in the 1973 Arab-Israeli war.
        Mr. Gur drew criticism in 1977 when he warned shortly before a groundbreaking visit to Jerusalem by President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt that the trip might be a ruse to hide Egyptian plans for a war. The visit later led to a peace treaty with Egypt, Israel's first with an Arab country.
        Born in Jerusalem on May 6, 1930, Mr. Gur began his military career with the Haganah, the Jewish fighting force formed before Israel was established in 1948.
        A few years after leaving the army in 1978, he was elected to Parliament as a member of the Labor Party, and from 1984 to 1986 he was Health Minister in a coalition Government with the Likud party. His seat will be filled by another Labor member, Avraham Katz-Oz.
        Mr. Gur was also an author. His works included three popular children's books and three books about military history. He is survived by his wife, Rita; four children, Ori, Tami and Rami Gur and Ruth Bar-Shalev, and four grandchildren.
      