
        Don Carpenter, a novelist and sometime screenwriter whose unflinching examinations of disheveled lives won more critical acclaim than popular favor, took his life on Thursday in a tiny, cluttered apartment in Mill Valley, Calif., where he had lived, worked, raged, exulted and suffered for the last 15 years. He was 64.
        Hailed as a serious literary figure from the moment his first novel, "Hard Rain Falling," was published in 1966, Mr. Carpenter, whose later works included "Blade of Light" (1968), "Getting Off," (1971), "A Couple of Comedians," (1979) and the movie "Payday," (1973), had not published a novel in six years.
        According to his family and friends, Mr. Carpenter, who had a deep distrust of doctors, had been so distressed by a mounting series of medical maladies, including diabetes, tuberculosis, and allergies, that a major emotional comfort in recent years had been the knowledge of the gun he kept in the top drawer of his desk.
        When he finally used it on Thursday he was replaying one of the most troubling chapters of his life, the 1984 suicide of his closest friend, the writer Richard Brautigan.
        "It would be my suspicion that Richard's suicide weighed on Don," said the novelist Evan Connell, recalling that Mr. Carpenter had envied Mr. Brautigan's spectacular literary success, a success that eluded Mr. Carpenter even as it deserted Mr. Brautigan before he killed himself in a remote Marin County cabin.
        Mr. Carpenter's friend and Marin County neighbor, Anne LaMott, agreed. Noting that Mr. Brautigan's body had not been found for weeks she said Mr. Carpenter had been haunted "by the really chilling specter" of Mr. Brautigan's final isolation from his friends.
        A native of San Francisco whose family moved to Portland, Ore., when he was a teen-ager, Mr. Carpenter went to high school there, graduated from Portland State University and eventually got a master's degree in creative writing from San Francisco State.
        He taught English for a while, but his early success allowed him to become a full-time writer. "A Hard Rain Falling," which traces the seedy life of a Portland orphan in stark detail, was praised for its flat polished prose, and after his second book, "Blade of Light," about another low-life loser, was published in 1968 he was compared favorably with James T. Farrell.
        Mr. Carpenter tried his hand at screen writing, spending parts of a dozen years in and around Hollywood, but like his novels, which were revered chiefly by other serious writers, his movie work had limited appeal.
        Typically, his 1973 movie "Payday," about a day in the life of a country music singer played by Rip Torn, is a cult classic that has been described as the best movie about country music ever made and was once included on a list of "the best movies you've never seen."
        Mr. Carpenter, who was not puzzled, once explained the movie's lack of box office appeal, "When it came out a lot of people didn't like it a lot because a lot of people go to the movies to be entertained, and they didn't find it sufficiently entertaining."
        If Mr. Carpenter's movie work did not make him a Hollywood success, it did give him a lot of material, which he disgorged in a series of novels, including "The True Life Story of Jody McKeegan," (1975), "Turnaround" (1981) and "A Couple of Comedians," (1979), which many regard as his best book.
        But not by everybody. Miss LaMott, who dedicated her 1994 book, "Bird by Bird," to Mr. Carpenter, predicted that his new manuscript, "Fridays at Enrico's," which was dedicated to her, woulds be hailed as a masterpiece. "It's a big sprawling work," she said, noting that it focused on the San Francisco literary community, where to the end Mr. Carpenter remained a popular, sought-after figure.
        "Other writers were always calling to pick his brains," she said.
        In addition to his wife, Martha, from whom he had been separated for 20 years, Mr. Carpenter is survived by two daughters, Bonnie Howard of Rohnert Park, Calif., and Leha Blaney of Bodega, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      