
        Archbishop Paul Nguyen Van Binh, who led the Archdiocese of Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, for 35 years, died on Saturday. He was 84.
        Official Vietnamese newspapers, according to The Associated Press, did not say where he died. His health had been poor for some years, but he remained the spiritual leader of Vietnam's largest Catholic community.
        In 1977, the Archbishop, addressing the Synod of Catholic Bishops in Rome, made it clear that he and other Vietnamese bishops had chosen to work as best they could within their country's political system.
        It was reported at the time that this attitude had the approval of the Pope at that time, Paul VI, but that it was opposed by more conservative members of the church hierarchy.
        The Archbishop also told the Synod in 1977 that new priests in Vietnam must find a way to speak in a new language that would be understood by congregations steeped in Communist concepts.
        And he said the Christians of Vietnam had to present "a new face, the authentic face of Christ and of the church," because, as he put it, the church was being accused of having been "in collusion with imperialism" in the past.
        Earlier, in May 1975, after Saigon fell to the Vietnamese Communists, the Archbishop called on Vietnamese Catholics to put forth "maximum efforts to rebuild the nation and contribute to national reconciliation and concord."
        In recent years, the question of who should assist and succeed him has generated disagreement between the Vatican and the Vietnamese Government, which takes the position that it must approve all important religious appointments, although it is officially atheist.
        According to official Vietnamese statistics, more than 6 million of the country's more than 70 million people are Roman Catholics. The great majority of the populace is Buddhist.
        In April of this year, The Associated Press reported, a visiting Vatican envoy, Msgr. Claudio Celli, proposed a candidate to succeed the Archbishop, but he left Vietnam without having secured the Vietnamese Government's approval.
        The reasons for that disagreement have not been disclosed, but the agency has said that earlier the Vietnamese Government had thwarted the Vatican's desire to have the Archbishop replaced by Msgr.  Nguyen Van Thuan, nephew of Ngo Dinh Diem, who was an archfoe of Vietnamese Communists as President of South Vietnam until 1963.
        Nguyen Van Binh was born in Saigon, studied for the priesthood in Rome, was ordained in 1937, served in various locations in Vietnam and was Bishop of Can Tho before becoming Saigon's Archbishop in 1960.
      