
        Wallace C. Steinberg, the chairman of the Healthcare Investment Corporation, the largest venture capital fund devoted to health care, died on Wednesday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 61.
        He died in his sleep, said Dr. James H. Cavanaugh, the company's president.
        Mr. Steinberg was willing to risk millions on untested futuristic notions that nonetheless held the promise of revolutionizing medicine. He was among the first to promote gene therapy and to invest in the study of animal organs for human transplantation. Mr. Steinberg was also a master at generating enthusiasm for his ideas, thereby luring investors.
        He explained in an interview in 1992 that "the basis of Healthcare Investment is to conceive of where medicine is going before anyone else thinks of it."
        And to pursue those goals, he was ready and willing to pull strings and offer lures to get the nation's most outstanding scientists to work for him. With $378 million available for investment, his company had the resources and the power to make Mr. Steinberg's visions a reality.
        One way he sought to transform his vision was his formation of a company to develop a new source of organs for transplants. Several years ago, he talked of a day when animal organs could be transplanted into humans, without using powerful drugs to suppress the immune system. He began asking around to find who would be the best person to direct such research and which medical school would be the best to conduct the studies.
        He decided that person would be Dr. David Sachs, who was then working at the National Institutes of Health, and that the medical center would be the Massachusetts General Hospital.
        So, in March 1990, Mr. Steinberg formed a company called Biotransplant. He lured Dr. Sachs from the institutes to head the company's scientific advisory board by arranging a faculty position for him at both Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital.
        Within six months, Mr. Steinberg had invested $6 million in Biotransplant and had persuaded the Sandoz Corporation to contribute $5 million. Other companies are optimistic about the same strategy, and one, Nextran, is planning transplants of gene-altered pig organs to humans within the next 30 days.
        Another company, Human Genome Sciences, arose from Mr. Steinberg's belief that the future of drug development may hinge on finding genes that can be used as the basis of new treatments. Mr. Steinberg entered this field when a scientist at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. J. Craig Venter, developed an automated shortcut to finding genes.
        Many scientists harshly criticized Dr. Venter's methods as risky and uncertain, and controversy surrounded the N.I.H. application for patents on snippets of genes he had found.
        Soon, Dr. Venter's grant applications were being refused. But Mr. Steinberg said he thought Dr. Venter was leading an international race to lock up the human genome. And, he said, the health institutes simply could not invest enough money in Dr. Venter's work to make it truly competitive.
        "I said to myself, 'My God, if this thing doesn't get done in a substantive way in the United States, that is the end of biotechnology in the U.S.,' " Mr. Steinberg said.
        But Dr. Venter said he did not want to head a company and become a capitalist but wanted to remain a scientist pursuing research.
        So, Mr. Steinberg put together a customized deal that appealed to Dr. Venter. He formed a nonprofit institution, the Institute for Genomic Research, with a budget of more than $85 million a year and made Dr. Venter its director. The researcher could pursue any scientific goals he wished and could publish all of his results in scientific journals. But, before publication, he must allow Human Genome Sciences, Mr. Steinberg's new company, to study the genes for 6 months or, in the case of genes it wanted to commercialize, for 12 months.
        The gamble appears to have paid off. Dr. Venter has now deciphered the first full set of genes from a living organism, the entire genetic database of the bacterium Hemophilus influenzae. When Dr. Venter applied to the health institutes for money when he started the project, he was turned down and told that what he was proposing could not be done.
        About a year ago, SmithKline Beecham invested $125 million for 10 percent of Human Genome Sciences.
        Another of Dr. Steinberg's successes is Genetic Therapies Inc., formed in 1986. Dr. Cavanaugh of Healthcare Investment said Mr. Steinberg had decided that the future of medicine after the millennium would be in gene therapy, and so he formed a company intended to be a leader in the field.
        In an interview in 1990, Mr. Steinberg said Genetic Therapies had been set up specifically to be bought out by a large drug company. "The ultimate payoff will be when a large pharmaceutical company realizes it needs a position in gene therapy," he said at that time. Earlier this month, Sandoz announced it was buying the company for $295 million.
        Mr. Steinberg was born in Brooklyn and earned both a bachelor's degree in pharmacology and a master's degree in pharmaceutical chemistry from Rutgers University. He was a technical director for Sterling Drug International and then spent 21 years at Johnson & Johnson, where he was eventually made responsible for venture capital, strategic planning and mergers.
        At Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Steinberg developed the idea for the Reach toothbrush, following his hunch that he could succeed in marketing a brand-name toothbrush made to help remove plaque, even though the company's president, vice president and chairman thought the idea would not work.
        Not only did he succeed, but Reach became the best-selling toothbrush in the world, Mr. Steinberg said.
        He attributed his success in part to what he said was his way of thinking with "simple clarity." He worked Monday through Thursday at his company's offices in Metro Park, N.J., spending long weekends playing tennis and going out dancing at night with his wife, Maria.
        He dreamed of living forever, optimistically saying that all the ills and degenerative conditions of aging were, at least in theory, correctable. "I have this theory that death is a genetic disease," he said in an interview several years ago. "There is no religious, preordained reason to die."
        Mr. Steinberg fantasized about getting a new heart and kidneys from animals developed by Biotransplant. He told Dr. Sachs that when the two of them were 70 years old: "I am going to take your hand in mine, and I will walk into Massachusetts General Hospital. We will get a room with two beds, and we'll both have a prophylactic heart and kidney transplant."
        His first marriage, to Rose Schram of Delray Beach, Fla., ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Steinberg is survived by four children from his first marriage, David, of Rumson; Robert, of Highlands, N.J.; Jeffrey, of Sayreville, N.J., and Laurie Kinkead of Little Silver, N.J.
      