
        Julius Cohen, a jewelry designer and the owner of the Madison Avenue shop and studio that bears his name, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Margo Feiden.
        Working with a rainbow of precious stones and metals, Mr. Cohen created rings, ear clasps, glittering brooches, bracelets and necklaces that won many design awards. He continued to travel and manage his business until his health failed two months ago. A son-in-law, Leslie Steinweiss, said he had been running and will continue to run the salon and workshop.
        Mr. Cohen opened his own company in 1955, setting up a salon and workshop first on East 53d Street next to the Stork Club, then at 699 Madison Avenue near 62d Street. Much of his business, however, was conducted at the homes of clients, who relied on Mr. Cohen to tailor jewelry to their tastes. His designs also fetched top dollars at auctions at Sotheby's and Christie's.
        For several years, Mr. Cohen won the Diamonds International Award, an annual honor for jewelry designers sponsored by De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd.
        Among his prize-winning pieces was a three-tiered bib necklace with pear-shaped pendants. Set with baguette diamonds weighing a total of 50 carats, it sold for $220,000.
        In tribute to the Walt Disney classic "Fantasia," he also created a Dancing Hippopotamus brooch set with diamonds, emeralds, rubies and a large yellow beryl.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Cohen began an apprenticeship at age 14 in the workshop of his uncle, Oscar Heyman, at Heyman & Company. He drew inspiration from the craftsmen around him, especially Adolph Hentschel, a jewelry designer from Germany who became his mentor.
        Mr. Cohen joined Harry Winston in 1942, touring with Winston's "Court of Jewels" exhibit before setting up his own label.
        Besides his wife, the owner of Margo Feiden Galleries at the same address, Mr. Cohen is survived by two daughters, Marjory Steinweiss of Manhattan and Jane Cohen of Vail, Colo.; two brothers, Joseph, of Manhattan, and Morton, of Los Angeles, and three grandchilden.
      