
        Takeo Fukuda, who as Japan's Prime Minister from 1976 to 1978 was instrumental in concluding a treaty of peace and friendship with China, died yesterday in the hospital of Tokyo Women's Medical College. He was 90 and lived in Tokyo.
        The cause was chronic emphysema, the Kyodo news service reported.
        The treaty with China put a formal end to the two countries' World War II hostilities. It was signed in 1978, six years after normal relations were restored between them, and it also made Japanese aid available for China's modernization efforts.
        The pact was praised in Beijing yesterday as a "historic achievement" by Sun Pinghua, the president of the China-Japan Friendship Association. Earlier in his career, Mr. Fukuda, a conservative, was a member of the pro-Taiwan faction of his party.
        As Prime Minister and member of the Liberal Democratic Party, he also strove to foster postwar reconciliation with other Asian countries. He enunciated, in 1977, what is known as the Fukuda Doctrine, pledging that Japan would never again be a military power, and would labor to enhance its relations with Southeast Asian countries.
        President Fidel Ramos of the Philippines said yesterday that the Fukuda Doctrine had put Asia, including the Philippines, into the center of Japanese foreign policies.
        Before becoming his country's 67th Prime Minister, Mr. Fukuda held Cabinet posts including Minister of Finance and Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was president of his party from 1976 to 1978.
        He was born into a well-to-do farming family. Mr. Fukuda was a Finance Ministry official from 1929 to 1950. He left the ministry after being implicated in 1947 in what became known as the Showa Denko bribery scandal, involving corporate payoffs to Government officials for low-cost Government business loans. He was indicted on suspicion of taking a bribe, was suspended from his post and then resigned.
        Mr. Fukuda went on to enter electoral politics, and he began a long tenure as a member of Japan's House of Representatives in 1952, when he was elected from Gunma Prefecture, where he was born, on Japan's main island, Honshu.
        It was while he was Prime Minister, in 1978, that the controversial New Tokyo International Airport at Narita, also on Honshu Island, was opened after years of confrontations, some of them violent, between the police and advocates -- and also local people -- who opposed aspects of the project, including the expropriation of land.
        While he headed his Government, he was also embroiled -- like Japanese Prime Ministers before and since -- in trade quarrels with the United States, largely concerning textiles and steel.
        And for years, as a major figure in his party, he was caught up in internal struggles with other leaders of his party, whose long dominance in Japan ended in 1993.
        He became Prime Minister after his predecessor, Takeo Miki, resigned. In 1978, he was bested by a major figure in his party, Masayoshi Ohira, who won election to the post of party president and, consequently, became Prime Minister in place of Mr. Fukuda.
        After stepping down as Prime Minister, Mr. Fukuda, as the Kyodo News Service put it yesterday, "continued to play a role in meetings of former world leaders on global issues such as the environment and population."
        An editorial in the Tokyo daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun said, in an admiring reference to those activities of his later years, that in a way "former Prime Minister Fukuda was in office until his death."
        As a young man he received a law degree from Tokyo University.
        His survivors include his wife, Mie, three sons and two daughters.
      