
        Sir Stephen Spender, the British poet, critic and novelist, died on Sunday at St. Mary's Hospital in London. He was 86.
        He had been taken to the hospital after collapsing at his home in north London, a spokesman for the hospital said.
        In the 1930's, Stephen Spender was one of a small number of young poets who gave a new direction to English letters by insisting that poetry be linked to political and social concerns and other aspects of the larger world.
        In yesterday's issue of The Guardian, the scholar and critic Sir Frank Kermode wrote that Mr. Spender's writings on politics, "and on the relation of artists to politics, remain the most considered and the most serious of any by the young writers of the period."
        In 1930 Mr. Spender, as he was then -- he went on to be knighted in 1983 -- drew wide attention when his "Twenty Poems" was published; two years later, some of his poems and those by W. H. Auden, C. Day Lewis and others were included in an anthology, "New Signatures," published by Leonard and Virginia Woolf's Hogarth Press.
        Mr. Spender, Auden, Louis MacNeice and a few others came to be known as the Oxford poets, since they had all studied there at around the same time.
        Sometimes Mr. Spender was described as "Shelleyan" because of the fervor of his call for sweeping change and of his lyrical way with words. Because of that lyricism, coupled with his good looks, he was also once labeled "the Rupert Brooke of the Depression," in a barbed reference to the handsome British war poet who died during World War I.
        Mr. Spender often wrote about the world around him -- which he saw with sorrow and anger. In 1934, he wrote a long narrative poem, "Vienna," about a recent Socialist uprising in that city. And in "The Landscape Near an Aerodrome" he almost lovingly described the descent of a plane with "furred antennae feeling its huge path/Through dusk."
        Later, during World War II, he wrote of his feelings about politics in a series of articles on "Books and the War." He began one article with these words:
        "We are living in a political age. That is to say political beliefs and events play a part in the lives of contemporaries which religious and spectacular warnings of the working out of doom amongst the great used to play in the past.
        "Poets are faced, then, with the problem of transforming into the comprehensive terms of the imagination the chaos of this politically obsessed world."
        In the late 1920's, Mr. MacNeice described Mr. Spender as "redeeming the world by introspection," and he remained involved with the world and its continuing need for redemption in his poetry and prose, as critic and commentator. And although he gained less worldly renown than did his friend Auden, his poems appeared widely in anthologies.
        Appraisals of Mr. Spender and his writings have varied spectacularly. The worldly British man of letters Cyril Connolly said, "One must compare him to Goethe and Gide, artists who combine sensuality with puritanism, loving with willing, innocence with guile."
        But the grumpy conservative novelist Evelyn Waugh wrote, "To watch him fumbling with our rich and delicate English language is like seeing a Sevres vase in the hands of a chimpanzee."
        Mr. Spender, who was shy and generous as well as modest, called Waugh's jibe "horrible" but added, "I do write with great difficulty and have absolutely no conviction that I write well."
        Stephen Harold Spender was born on Feb. 28, 1909 in London, into a noted Liberal family that was in comfortable but not, according to his autobiography, particularly happy circumstances. His mother died when he was 12 and his father not many years later; Stephen and his three siblings were left under the care of their maternal grandmother, Hilda Schuster. He grew up tall and handsome, attended schools in Norfolk and London and went on to University College at Oxford.
        There he met Mr. MacNeice, Auden, Isaiah Berlin and Christopher Isherwood, who became his friends and literary colleagues. With the help of a small independent income, he left Oxford in 1931 to devote himself entirely to poetry writing. He went frequently to Germany, where he spent time with Isherwood, whose experiences of that era led eventually to his Berlin stories and the play "I Am a Camera," which was made into the musical "Cabaret." A Collaboration On Disillusion
        Mr. Spender's first prose book was a 1934 volume of essays, "The Destructive Element," which commented on the poetry of T. S. Eliot, James Joyce, W. B. Yeats and others. His first collection of short stories, "The Burning Cactus," came out in 1936. The following year saw the publication of his "Forward From Liberalism," an exposition of his political thinking, which led to an invitation to join the British Communist Party.
        It was an association that lasted only a few weeks. "I wrote something for The Daily Worker attacking the party," he recalled later, "and that was the last I heard of my membership." In 1950, he, Arthur Koestler, Andre Gide and others contributed to a book of essays, "The God That Failed," relating their disillusionment with Communism.
        As it was for many of his contemporaries, the Spanish Civil War for Mr. Spender was a searing experience. Evading a British Foreign Office ban on visas, he went to Spain in 1937 as a delegate to an International Writers' Congress in Barcelona.
        Later that year, he edited "Poems for Spain" with John Lehmann, and in 1938 wrote "Trial of a Judge," a five-act play in verse about Nazi Germany.
        In 1939, he was a founder of the literary magazine Horizon, ofwhich he was co-editor, with Cyril Connolly, until 1941.
        Mr. Spender was a pacifist, and he served as a fireman in London during most of World War II. He continued to write and to have works published as the war went on, including two collections of poems and his translations of work by other poets, including Rainer Maria Rilke and Federico Garcia Lorca.
        Just after the war, in 1946, there appeared Mr. Spender's book "European Witness," which included an analysis of the situation of German intellectuals under Hitler. One of his most acclaimed poems, "Elegy for Margaret," dedicated to his terminally ill sister-in-law, was published that year in "Poems of Dedication."
        His 1949 volume of verse, "Edge of Being: Poems," was less well received by the critics. His autobiography, "World Within World," published in 1951, also received mixed reviews, but critics agreed that it was worth reading, if only for its incisive sketches of the stars of the British literary world.
        Mr. Spender continued to write prose -- like "Learning Laughter," about a trip to Israel -- as well as poetry, and a volume with his collected poems was published in 1953. Journals, Critics And a Final Dispute
        In 1953 also, he and Irving Kristol founded Encounter, an anti-Communist intellectual journal that soon wielded influence far out of proportion to its small circulation (about 40,000). It published everyone from Nancy Mitford to Mr. Koestler on topics ranging from semantic snobbery to Britain's future.
        In 1967, Mr. Spender cut his ties to the magazine when it was disclosed that it had been partly supported by funds supplied indirectly by the Central Intelligence Agency.
        His poetry, meanwhile, was generating other diverse appraisals. The Times Literary Supplement, in 1971, asked whether it did not make "better sense" to look at his work as basically personal introspection, "as attempts at redemptive and quasi-religious self-searching, than it ever did to see them as coming primarily from social or political concerns.
        The critic David Daiches, writing in 1958, cited what he called Mr. Spender's "limited range" but praised his "quiet control in descriptive or confessional verse that has its own appeal."
        In his later years, Mr. Spender produced far more prose than poetry, including "The Creative Element: A Study of Vision, Despair and Orthodoxy Among Some Modern Writers" (1953); a sympathetic look at student rebellion, "The Year of the Young Rebels" (1969); "Love-Hate Relations: English and American Sensibilities," and "The Thirties and After"(1978).
        In 1993, Viking published a novel by David Leavitt, an American, entitled "While England Sleeps," and Sir Stephen -- as he was by then -- asserted that the novelist had committed plagiarism by using material from his autobiography.
        Sir Stephen also filed suit in Britain against Viking Penguin, which was obliged to withdraw the book. In an out-of-court settlement reached early in 1994, Viking also agreed not to keep on selling the novel in its original form anywhere in the world.
        In an essay published in The New York Times Book Review in September 1994, Sir Stephen contended that Mr. Leavitt's novel was "closely derived in plot and text from about 30 pages of my autobiography, concerning my relationship with a man I call Jimmy Younger."
        "My book," Sir Stephen added, "describes how after my marriage to Inez Pearn, my friend, who was also my former lover, joined the International Brigade and fought in the Spanish Civil War."
        Events involving Jimmy, Sir Stephen wrote, were "almost exactly transcribed in Mr. Leavitt's novel, though the character in the novel was named Edward."
        For his part, Mr. Leavitt had contended that "When writing historical fiction about a period in which one did not live, one obviously has to look into the past -- to eavesdrop on history itself."
        In his essay in The Times Book Review, Sir Stephen wrote, "No one would disagree with him there, but doing so surely does not mean finding some past person's autobiography and presenting a great part of it as one's own current fiction."
        "Mr. Leavitt's fantasy accretions to my autobiography, which I find pornographic, certainly do not correspond to my experience or to my idea of literature," Sir Stephen observed, adding: 'Authors of the 1990's, like Mr. Leavitt, who are entirely free to exploit a wave of popular interest, would do well to understand that writers as recently as the 1950's ran considerable risks of being prosecuted" under intolerant British laws.
        "It was for this reason that in 1950, while prepared to take the risk for myself, I gave my former lover the pseudonym Jimmy Younger in 'World Within World.' My autobiography was received in 1951 as ahead of its time in its frankness, admired as such by some reviewers, attacked by others for what was seen as excessive candor."
        By March 1995, Mr. Leavitt made 17 editorial changes in the novel's text, and a revised edition is to be published by Houghton Mifflin in the fall.
        Meanwhile, in September 1994, St. Martin's Press reissued "World Within World" in the United States, with a new introduction by Sir Stephen. At that time St. Martin's also published "Dolphins," a book of his recent poems. It was his first new volume of poetry in nine years, and it also came out in Britain in 1994.
        With the passage of time, "World Within World" has proved to be in many ways Sir Stephen's most enduring prose work because it gives the reader revealing glimpses of its author, Auden and Mr. Isherwood and of what it was like to be a British poet in the 1930's.
        In his new introduction to the 1994 edition, Sir Stephen wrote, "Our ideal was always to make out of experience artifacts -- verbal objects as poems or fictions -- which within themselves would have transcended their origins whether these were politics or sex or history."
        But he added this caution: "It is quite wrong to be nostalgic about the Thirties on the grounds that during that decade many young people felt there were political causes worth fighting and dying for. Auden's description of the Thirties, sitting in a bar in New York in September 1939, as a 'low dishonest decade' at least deglamorizes it. The young should take the Thirties as a warning rather than as a cause for envy."
        In addition to writing, Mr. Spender lectured widely, in Europe and Asia and at universities in the United States, where he also was a visiting professor on several campuses. He was a professor of English literature at University College of London University from 1970 to 1977.
        He was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1962 and in 1971 was awarded the Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry. In 1965, he was the first non-American to serve as Consultant in Poetry in English to the Library of Congress.
        Mr. Spender's first marriage, to Agnes Marie Pearn, known as Inez, ended in divorce in 1939. In 1941 he married Natasha Litvin, a pianist. She, their son, Matthew Francis, and their daughter, Elizabeth, survive. A Voice of Compassion With a Sense of History
        The secret of these hills was stone, and cottages
        Of that stone made,
        And crumbling roads
        That turned on sudden hidden villages
        Now over these small hills, they have built the concrete
        That trails black wire
        Pylons, those pillars
        Bare like nude giant girls that have no secret.
        The valley with its gilt and evening look
        And the green chestnut
        Of customary root,
        Are mocked dry like the parched bed of a brook.
        But far above and far as sight endures
        Like whips of anger
        With lightning's danger
        There runs the quick perspective of the future.
        This dwarfs our emerald country by its trek
        So tall with prophecy
        Dreaming of cities
        Where often clouds shall lean their swan-white neck.
        "The Pylons" ("Selected Poems  by Stephen Spender,"
        Random House, 1964)
        The light in the window seemed perpetual
        When you stayed in the high room for me;
        It glowed above the trees through leaves
        Like my certainty.
        The light is fallen and you are hidden
        In sunbright peninsulas of the sword:
        Torn like leaves through Europe is the peace
        That through us flowed.
        Now I climb up alone to the high room
        Above the darkened square
        Where among stones and roots, the other
        Unshattered lovers are.
        "The Room Above the Square"
        ("Selected Poems")  A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        At five a man fell to the ground
        And the watch flew off his wrist
        Like a moon struck from the earth
        Marking a blank time that stares
        On the tides of change beneath.
        All under the olive trees.
        A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        He stayed faithfully in that place
        From his living comrade split
        By dividers of the bullet
        Opening wide the distances
        Of his final loneliness.
        All under the olive trees.
        A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        And the bones are fixed at five
        Under the moon's timelessness;
        But another who lives on
        Wears within his heart forever
        Space split open by the bullet.
        All under the olive trees.
        "A Stopwatch and an Ordnance Map"  Dedicated to Samuel Barber
        ("Selected Poems")
        Sometimes, apart in sleep, by chance,
        You fall out of my arms, alone,
        Into the chaos of your separate trance.
        My eyes gaze through your forehead, through the bone,
        And see where in your sleep distress has torn
        Its path, which on your lips is shown
        And on your hands and in your dream forlorn.
        Restless, you turn to me and press
        Those timid words against my ear
        Which thunder at my heart like stones.
        "Mercy," you plead, Then "Who can bless?"
        You ask. "I am pursued by Time," you moan.
        I watch that precipice of fear
        You tread, naked in naked distress.
        To that deep care we are committed
        Beneath the wildness of our flesh
        And shuddering horror of our dream,
        Where unmasked agony is permitted.
        Our bodies, stripped of clothes that seem,
        And our souls, stripped of beauty's mesh,
        Meet their true selves, their charms outwitted.
        This pure trance is the oracle
        That speaks no language but the heart
        Our angel with our devil meets
        In the atrocious dark nor do they part
        But each forgives and greets,
        And their mutual terrors heal
        Within our married miracle.
        "The Trance" ("Selected Poems")
      