
        George Leon Weil, a physicist who assisted in the birth of the atomic age, died last Saturday at the Georgetown House retirement home in Washington. A longtime Washington resident, he was 87.
        He had suffered strokes and heart problems, according to the DeVol Funeral Home in Washington.
        Dr. Weil was a lieutenant of Enrico Fermi, who directed the first controlled nuclear chain reaction on Dec. 2, 1942. He had joined Professor Fermi's working team of scientists at Columbia University in 1940.
        The first sustained chain reaction was produced amid the greatest wartime secrecy in a reactor built in the old squash court beneath Stagg Field at the University of Chicago. Dr. Weil was the young scientist whom Professor Fermi ordered to pull out the final control rod, foot by foot, thus activating the atomic furnace and causing the neutron counters to click ever faster and louder.
        Professor Fermi allowed the reaction to continue for 28 minutes before he ordered it stopped, saying, "The reaction is self-sustaining." He also proved it could be controlled.
        In later years, Dr. Weil had words of caution about the risks of the nuclear era, even in the civilian sector. He was active in the design and operation of research and production reactors first at the General Electric Company and then for the Atomic Energy Commission.
        He left the commission as assistant director of the Division of Reactor Development in 1952 to establish himself as an independent consultant in Washington, working for Government agencies, industry and not-for-profit organizations.
        Dr. Weil warned the atomic power industry in the mid-1950's of the dire consequences that serious accidents would cause for people and the environment, foretelling aspects of the accident at Three Mile Island, Pa., in 1979 and the catastrophic reactor fire at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union in April 1986.
        Born in New York City, he graduated from Harvard College in 1929 and earned master's and doctoral degrees at Columbia University. He then joined Professor Fermi on the Manhattan Project that produced the first atom bomb.
        In April 1945 he went to Los Alamos, N.M., to work on the first test of the bomb. In October that year, Gen. Leslie R. Groves, the military director of the bomb project countrywide, appointed him the American scientific representative to the joint British-Canadian atomic energy project in Ontario.
        After leaving Government service, Dr. Weil was the technical director of the United States delegation to the 1955 United Nations conference on the peaceful use of atomic power, in Geneva.
        Dr. Weil is survived by a son, Stephen, of Arlington, Mass.; a sister, Helen Benjamin of New York City, and two granddaughters.
      