
        Dr. Lyman G. Parratt, an X-ray researcher and former chairman of the physics department at Cornell University, died on Thursday at his home in Redmond, Ore. He was 87 and had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., until last year, having been associated with Cornell for more than six decades.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Parratt's expertise was in high-precision X-ray measurements. He achieved an international reputation in the 1930's after developing instruments for high-resolution measurements of the absorption and emission of X-rays in solids.
        His early experiments showed that the energy that was absorbed or emitted was determined not just by the atom whose core electrons were directly involved, but also by neighboring atoms and their configuration in the solid.
        He and his students investigated these effects by measuring X-ray spectrums in many solids. In doing so, they developed techniques that assumed a central role in future X-ray experimentation.
        In World War II, Dr. Parratt worked in Washington and London on devices for the magnetic detection of submarines for the Navy. He was sent to Los Alamos, N.M., early in the development of the atomic bomb there and spent the rest of the war with the project.
        Returning to Cornell, he helped to plan an overhaul of the physics department and to start up its Laboratory of Nuclear Studies for fellow physicists from Los Alamos. He served as department chairman in 1959 and 1960, overseeing the addition of the Cornell Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics and an updating of the physics curriculum.
        He retired in 1973 but remained active in the department until last year.
        He was born in Salt Lake City and received a degree in physics from the University of Utah in 1928. He did experimental X-ray work at the University of Chicago, where he received a Ph.D. in 1932, the year before he joined the faculty at Cornell.
        Survivors include his wife of more than 50 years, Rhea, and two daughters, Portia Kowalowski of Redmond and Carolyn Schumacker of Salt Lake City.
      