
        John F. Weakland, an innovative psychotherapist who helped originate the field of family therapy and created elegantly simple strategies for solving problems of human behavior at the Mental Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif., died on July 8 at his home in Palo Alto. He was 76.
        His wife, Anna Wu, said the cause was Lou Gehrig's disease.
        In his work at the institute, Mr. Weakland helped conceive and develop many of the avant-garde approaches and therapies that have kept the institute on the cutting edge, even as the earlier concepts have become standards in modern therapy.
        The institute therapists, who savor their reputation for repudiating virtually every concept and practice of traditional psychotherapy, maintain that alcoholism is not a disease but merely a label for the problem of excessive drinking.
        And whether treating excessive drinking or other problems, the therapists apply a philosophy that could be summed up as "keep it simple." Following prescriptions laid down by Mr. Weakland and others, they ignore the presumed deep-seated, childhood-rooted, underlying causes of human problems and deal directly with the problems.
        Mr. Weakland, a native of Charleston, W.Va., was a brilliant student with a restless mind. He entered Cornell University at the age of 16 and later spent six years as a promising chemical engineer with the Du Pont Company before a chance encounter with the anthropologist Gregory Bateson led him to switch to that field.
        Although he studied anthropology under Mr. Bateson at the New School in New York and with Mr. Bateson's wife, Margaret Mead, at Columbia University, Mr. Weakland never obtained his doctorate. Rejecting his adviser's criticisms of his thesis, he refused to revise it.
        Mr. Weakland followed Mr. Bateson's lead in moving from anthropology to the study of schizophrenia and alcoholism at the University of California at Berkeley and at the veterans hospitalin Palo Alto. Mr. Weakland used his experiences studying contemporary cultures like Navaho and Chinese societies in developing techniques for observing and understanding family problems.
        For example, he was a pioneer in the use of films, audio recordings and one-way mirrors to study the interactions of family members.
        Mr. Weakland was an original member of the institute, which was founded in 1959. He wrote or helped write more than 60 scholarly papers and six books, and also maintained a private practice and served as an associate professor in the department of psychiatry at Stanford University.
        Although the institute claims a success rate as high as 65 percent for the streamlined, 10-session program Mr. Wealkand helped create for its Brief Therapy Center, he stressed that the therapy was no panacea.
        "When you have a problem," he liked to say, "life is the same damn thing over and over. When you no longer have a problem, life is one damn thing after another."
        In addition to his wife, an artist, he is survived by two sons, Alan of San Marino, Calif., and Lewis of Los Angeles; a daughter, Joan, of Williamsburg, Va., and two grandchildren.
      