
        Toru Kumon, who was so dismayed when his 8-year-old son had trouble with second-grade math that he developed a streamlined teaching method now used by more than 2 million students in 29 countries, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Osaka, Japan. He was 81.
        Mr. Kumon was a high school math teacher in 1954 when his son Takeshi came home with a poor report card in arithmetic. Prodded by his wife, he reviewed the child's textbook and was so appalled by what he found that he devised a back-to-basics home study program in which his son was required to complete one page of problems a day, progressing to a slightly higher level the next day.
        By the time he reached high school the son had mastered complex college calculus and his father had started a network of after-school teaching centers that swept Japan. It now has revenues of more than $500,000 a year.
        Through a network of franchised after-school centers and programs for public and private schools, the concern, which also offers a reading program, has about 65,000 pupils in the United States.
        Devoting no more than 30 minutes a day to the program, but doing it seven days a week, mostly at home, students in the program complete finely calibrated work sheets, each almost imperceptibly more advanced than the one before.
        The method requires pupils to get all the problems on a given work sheet right within a fixed time limit, generally 10 minutes, before advancing to the next level.
        It is a measure of the method's degree of gradation, and its stress on repetition, that there are 70 sheets of simple 1 + problems and 50 devoted to the addition of 2.
        In addition to teaching math, the program is designed to instill discipline and build self-esteem, a goal that is achieved in part by virtually assuring new pupils initial success by starting them on the graduated Kumon road at a point a year or two behind their current grade levels.
        The method has been derided by critics as a "drill and kill" curriculum that stresses rote learning and memorization over creative problem-solving, but Kumon lore is filled with stories of 8-year-olds mastering calculus.
        Such achievements seem all the more impressive since the after-school program, which costs about $70 a month, appeals primarily to parents whose children are lagging in school.
        But studies have shown that Kumon benefits gifted children as well as underachievers, groups the founder regarded as indistinguishable.
        "Every child is a gifted child," he once said, perhaps in reference to a remembered second grader with a poor report card.
        In addition to his son Takeshi, Mr. Kumon's survivors include another son, Hiroshi.
      