
        Laurence Wylie, an authority on French language and culture who spent decades in pursuit of the essence of the French soul, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85.
        Dr. Wylie retired in 1980 after 21 years as the C. Douglas Dillon Professor of the Civilization of France at Harvard University. Earlier he taught at Haverford College in Pennsylvania.
        As the scholarly journal Contemporary French Civilization put it, he was "internationally acclaimed for his innovative studies of life in modern France." His book "Village in the Vaucluse" (Harvard, 1957), about life in a small community in southern France, is widely considered a classic and has been praised by one critic as "sociology with rich human overtones."
        In researching that book in 1950 and 1951, he lived, along with his wife and their two small sons, in the hilltop village of Roussillon, to which, in the book, he gave the fictitious name of Peyrane. His touching, humorous, sharp and close-up account reached a resoundingly favorable conclusion:
        "Compared to most communities in the world today, Peyrane is well off. Its pattern of life seems balanced and sane. There is a bit of madness in the relationship of the Peyranais with the rest of the world. But when we look at life there and elsewhere it is not always clear on which side the madness lies."
        His other books included "Deux Villages" (1965) and "Beaux Gestes: A Guide to French Body Talk" (1977), which was illustrated with photographs of Dr. Wylie by Rick Stafford.
        Reviewing that work, a critic wrote: "Open it to any page and out pops this wild man Wylie -- who calls himself 'an elderly Harvard professor' -- in a slightly baggy turtleneck." Among the Gallic gestures Dr. Wylie demonstrated was one for giving the message "It's so easy I could do it with my fingers up my nose."
        At Harvard he was a member of the departments of anthropology, social relations and Romance languages and literature. From 1943 until he moved to Harvard in 1959, he taught at Haverford, where he served for years as chairman of the Romance languages department.
        Dr. Wylie was born in Indianapolis and studied at Indiana University and in Paris before earning a Ph.D.  in Romance languages and literature in 1940 from Brown University. He did postdoctoral work in anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania.
        His first marriage, to Anne Stiles, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Joan Dreyfus; two sons, Jonathan, of Belmont, Mass. and David, of Concord, Mass.; three stepchildren, James Blout of Concord, Susan B. Merry of Chicago and William Blout of Lexington, Mass.; a brother, Francis E. Wylie of Hingham, Mass., and 14 grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
      