
        William E. Woolfenden, who made it his mission to gather every artifact, photograph, scrap of paper and taped recollection he could about American artists, collectors, curators and dealers, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday in New Haven, Conn. He was 77.
        A resident of Southbury, Conn., he had retired in 1983 after serving 19 years as director of the Smithsonian Institution's Archives of American Art.
        Mr. Woolfenden, who was born in Detroit and had bachelor's and master's degrees from Wayne State University, went to work for the Detroit Institute of Arts and was its director of education when the museum's director, Edgar P. Richardson, had an idea that would change both their lives.
        There were museums and galleries aplenty devoted to American art, Mr. Richardson knew, but as a noted art historian at a time when there were no professors of American art history at American universities, he was also aware that none of them paid much attention to the artists.
        Determined to remedy that, Mr. Richardson teamed up with Lawrence A. Fleischman, a wealthy Detroit businessman and art collector, and in 1954 they founded the Archives of American Art, initially as an adjunct to the Detroit museum. Mr. Richardson died in 1985, and Mr. Fleischman is now president of the Kennedy Galleries in New York.
        Mr. Woolfenden, who was associated with the archives from the beginning, was named assistant director in 1960, and after Mr. Richardson's retirement from the museum, he became the archives' first full-time director.
        During the next 19 years Mr. Woolfenden, who made Manhattan his headquarters, built what had begun as a modest depository into the world's largest archive devoted to American art, a treasure trove for scholars.
        By the time he retired, the archives, which became a bureau of the Smithsonian in 1970, had accumulated more than 10 million documents, including John Singleton Copley's handwritten formula for varnish ("Take of the Whitest Gum Tanelrick two pounds to the gallon of Rectified Spirits of Wine"), Thomas Eakin's description of the difficulties of painting a portrait of a restless President Rutherford B. Hayes ("I had to construct him as I would a small animal.") and the $15 pawn ticket Franz Kline obtained for his binoculars in 1954.
        Mr. Woolfenden also insured that the archives included material on lesser artists and craftsmen, on obscure Soho galleries that existed only for a short time, and even on curators, collectors, dealers and critics, a subsidiary focus that raised some eyebrows.
        "We have thrown our net widely," Mr. Woolfenden once said. "In order to understand an artist, you have to understand everyone who had anything to do with him."
        What has made the archives especially useful for scholars is that most of the collection is available on microfilm at half a dozen regional centers, including the Manhattan headquarters on Sixth Avenue at West 51st Street.
        "We're a research center with two jobs," Mr. Woolfenden once explained. "One is to collect as widely and broadly as we can. The other is to get the material into the hands of researchers and scholars."
        Under Mr. Woolfenden, the archives also commissioned extensive oral histories in which contemporary artists filled a modern cultural gap.
        "With the telephone," Mr. Woolfenden explained, "no one writes those wonderful letters as artists did in the 19th century."
        He is survived by his companion, Adolph S. Cavallo, and a sister, Agnes Helen Woolfenden of Novi, Mich.
      