
        Lord Lever, a wealthy investor who served as a Cabinet minister and economic adviser to two British Prime Ministers, died on Sunday at his home in London. He was 81.
        His family did not disclose the cause of death.
        Born Harold Lever, he was a rarity in being both wealthy and a member of the Labor Party's inner circle in the late 1960's and the 70's, first under Prime Minister Harold Wilson and then under Mr. Wilson's successor, James Callaghan.
        He was always regarded suspiciously by members of Labor's left wing, who asked how a bridge-playing millionaire who lived in a 22-room apartment on prestigious Eaton Square could relate to the concerns of the British working class. Indeed, he sometimes questioned the unions' influence over the party, and he found himself to the right of most of his colleagues on other issues as well.
        But his knowledge of financial markets and his frankness also led both Mr. Wilson and Mr. Callaghan to rely on him for advice when the British economy was floundering. A student of international debt and world financial markets, he helped the Wilson Government negotiate key aspects of international agreements that rescued Britain from a currency crisis in 1968.
        Under Mr. Callaghan in the mid-1970's, he handled several sensitive assignments, including renegotiating Britain's contracts with oil companies drilling in the North Sea to meet Labor's campaign promise of getting the taxpayers a better deal. In 1976, he helped negotiate a financial assistance package for Britain from the International Monetary Fund.
        Harold Lever was born on Jan. 15, 1914, in Manchester, where his father was a successful textile merchant. He later said he supported the Labor Party from boyhood, when he saw the extreme poverty in Manchester.
        He studied law at Manchester University and was admitted to the bar in 1935. Serving in the Royal Air Force during World War II, he held a staff job and did not see combat. He ran for Parliament, and won, in 1945, and held a seat in the House of Commons until 1979, when he was named a life peer and joined the House of Lords.
        His Government posts included financial secretary to the Treasury, paymaster general and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He held a number of jobs in private industry after leaving the House of Commons; one post was as a director of The Guardian.
        Throughout his career in politics, he was an active and successful investor in the financial markets.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Diane Bashi, whom he married in 1962; three daughters from their marriage, and one daughter from an earlier marriage. His first marriage ended in divorce; his second wife, Billie, died in 1948.
      