
        David Warrilow, an actor who was a consummate interpreter of the works of Samuel Beckett, died in Paris on Aug. 17. He was 60.
        The cause was AIDS, said Jed Wheeler, a New York theatrical manager and friend, who announced Mr. Warrilow's death yesterday.
        Mr. Warrilow was a founding member of the Mabou Mines experimental company, and acted in films as well as onstage for a variety of authors and directors. But he was best known for his roles in the plays and dramatic adaptations of Beckett: "The Lost Ones," "A Piece of Monologue," "Ohio Impromptu" and "Catastrophe."
        Because of his lean, craggy appearance and his eloquent voice, he became so identified with Beckett that he was like his acting alter ego: if Beckett had been an actor, he might have been David Warrilow. Mr. Warrilow's specialty was the late works of the author, the evocative outpourings of poetic language that characterized Beckett's writing in the late 1970's and early 80's.
        Although he was English, Mr. Warrilow gave his most memorable performances in the United States and France. With equal agility, he performed in English and French. He was an actor of physical as well as emotional daring. Performing in the title role of Velimir Khlebnikov's "Zangezi" for Peter Sellars at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1987, he walked a high wire while enrobed in plastic garbage bags.
        The turning point in his stage career was "The Lost Ones" for Mabou Mines in 1975. This difficult narrative fragment takes place in a windowless cylinder in which "lost bodies roam, each searching for its lost one." Through his acting art, Mr. Warrilow transformed the Dante-esque text into a hypnotic performance piece, making the imagined tangible. He won an Obie Award for "The Lost Ones" and also for his acting in JoAnne Akalaitis's "Southern Exposure." "David acted from the soles of his feet," Ms. Akalaitis said yesterday. "He was the most soulful and articulate actor."
        Having met Beckett several times in Paris, Mr. Warrilow audaciously asked him to write a play for him. The author's surprising response: "Tell me what you have in mind." As Mr. Warrilow later recalled, he told him he had "an image in my head of a man alone onstage. . . . talking about death." Six months later, Beckett sent him "A Piece of Monologue." In New York in 1979, the actor was in the world premiere of the play, an elegy to the brevity of life and the proximity of death, a soliloquy that ended with Mr. Warrilow standing in the "black void," delivering Beckett's last words, "Alone gone." Along with "The Lost Ones," it became one of the actor's signature pieces.
        As delivered by Mr. Warrilow, "Ohio Impromptu" was an ode to a lost love and a contemplation of the end of life. He also appeared in Frederick Neumann's adaptation of Beckett's "Mercier and Camier" and Ms. Akalaitis's stage version of the radio play, "Cascando." He starred opposite Billie Whitelaw in the radio play "All That Fall" during a 1989 festival of Beckett's radio work. In the film documentary "Samuel Beckett: Silence to Silence," he spoke the words from the author's writings.
        Born in Stone, Staffordshire, on Dec. 28, 1934, he was the son of a shoemaker. After graduating from Reading University with a degree in French he went to Paris, where he was an editor for the magazine Realites for 11 years. While acting in a Parisian theater workshop, he met Ms. Akalaitis and appeared with her in a production of Beckett's "Play" at the American Center. Later the two of them, Lee Breuer, Philip Glass and Ruth Maleczech created Mabou Mines, which became Mr. Warrilow's artistic home in New York in the 1970's.
        In the 1980's, he widened his range, playing a dour psychiatrist in Richard Foreman's "Penguin Touquet" and a Lear-like character for Robert Wilson in "The Golden Windows." In 1984, he was in Martin Sherman's "Messiah." Although he often played lost, lonely characters, like the martyred Protagonist in "Catastrophe," Beckett's homage to Vaclav Havel, he also had an elegant side. At a benefit for Mabou Mines he sang Cole Porter liltingly and he appeared in such films as Woody Allen's "Radio Days" and in "Bright Lights, Big City" and "Barton Fink."
        In 1986, he played Marat in an operatic version of Peter Weiss's "Marat/Sade" in Paris. Three years later, he returned to England to perform "Krapp's Last Tape" at the Leicester Haymarket Theater in Leicester and then at the Riverside Studios in London. In recent years, he lived in Paris, where he was honored as a Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et Lettres.
      