
        Ida Lupino, an earthy, intelligent movie actress who created a luminous gallery of worldly wise villainesses, gangster's molls and hand-wringing neurotics, died on Thursday night at her home in Burbank, Calif. She was 77 years old.
        Miss Lupino had cancer and had recently suffered a stroke, Mary Ann Anderson, her former secretary, said yesterday.
        The actress was also celebrated for directing eight provocative and socially relevant feature films and scores of episodes of many long-running television series, including "The Untouchables," "Have Gun, Will Travel" and "Alfred Hitchcock Presents."
        In the course of more than 50 films, Miss Lupino was a spiteful Cockney in "The Light That Failed" (1939), a crazed wife in "They Drive by Night" (1940), a loyal girlfriend in "High Sierra" (1941), an escaped convict in "The Sea Wolf" (1941) and a steely murderer in "Ladies in Retirement" (1941).
        In later roles, she was a depraved warden in "Women's Prison" (1955), a sob-sister columnist in "While the City Sleeps" (1956) and the world-weary mother of a rodeo star in "Junior Bonner" (1972). Vincent Canby of The New York Times called "Junior Bonner" "a superior family comedy" made to order for both Steve McQueen and Robert Preston, but wrote "the loveliest performance is that of Miss Lupino."
        In the early 1950's, she directed and helped write successful low-budget movies on such sensitive issues as illegitimacy ("Not Wanted"), rape ("Outrage") and pathological murder ("The Hitch-Hiker").
        On television, she regularly starred in a dramatic anthology, Four Star Playhouse, from 1952 to 1956. In 1957 and 1958 she produced "Mr. Adams and Eve," a situation comedy about married film stars, in which her co-star was Howard Duff, her third husband. Many of the episodes dealt comically with their real-life experiences.
        Ida Lupino was born in London on Feb. 4, 1918, during a German zeppelin bombing. Her paternal forebears were traveling players and puppeteers in Renaissance Italy. Later generations migrated to England in the 17th century. Her father, Stanley Lupino, was a noted comedian, and her mother, Connie Emerald, was an actress who was also descended from a theatrical family. A cousin, Lupino Lane, was an internationally popular song-and-dance man.
        As a child, she improvised and acted scenes with her younger sister, Rita, in a small theater their father had built for them in their London garden. Her roles included Juliet, Camille and even Hamlet. At the age of 13, she entered the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. At 15, she made her film debut in a Lolita-like role in "Her First Affaire." She made five more movies in Britain in 1933, then signed a contract with Paramount Pictures in Hollywood and played a dozen more sugary ingenues over the next five years.
        The turning point came with "The Light That Failed," in which she forcefully played a vengeful prostitute who betrays an artist going blind (Ronald Colman). That performance and her next one, as a demented murderer in "They Drive by Night," won her a long-term contract at Warner Brothers.
        Over the next decade, critics increasingly hailed Miss Lupino as one of the great film actresses. Her favorite role was in "Ladies in Retirement," as a stolid housekeeper who kills her overbearing employer so she can use the house as a sanctuary for her two insane sisters. The New York film critics honored her as the best actress of 1943 for her portrayal in "The Hard Way" of a ruthless woman who propels her younger sister to stardom and destroys everyone in her way.
        Miss Lupino gracefully disguised the intense effort she put into shaping her roles, displaying an economy of motion and an ease in using precisely on-target gestures and intonation. She insisted she was not a born actress, saying: "I study and work hard. I take a script and mull over it and underline the bits I want to emphasize. When I go on the set, I know exactly what I want to do and how I want to do it."
        In 1949, Miss Lupino and Collier Young, a movie executive and producer who was then her husband, founded Filmakers, an independent production company, for which she directed candid films with feminist themes. One of the most popular was "The Bigamist" (1953).
        The energetic Miss Lupino called directing the most demanding work in films, requiring tactful but firm handling of many temperaments and giving clear instructions to a usually all-male, often skeptical crew. Though she spent many hours at what was then a man's calling, she was unstintingly feminine in bearing and manner, observing, "I'm not the kind of woman who can bark orders."
        Miss Lupino was petite, standing only 5 feet 2 inches tall and weighing 112 pounds. She had auburn hair and violet eyes framed by half-inch-long lashes. Her leisure pursuits included skin diving, writing short stories and children's books, and composing music. One work, "Aladdin Suite," was performed by the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra.
        She was married to (and divorced from) the actor Louis Hayward (1938 to 1945) as well as Mr. Young (1948 to 1951). She and Howard Duff were married in 1951 and divorced in 1983. He died in 1990.
        Miss Lupino is survived by a daughter, Bridget Duff, and a sister, Rita Lupino.
      