
        Lawrence R. Houston, an architect of the Central Intelligence Agency who built the legal foundation on which it rests and the facades behind which it hid, died on Tuesday. He was 82.
        He died of a heart attack while vacationing in Westport, Mass., said his friend Walter Pforzheimer, a retired C.I.A. official who served with Mr. Houston.
        Mr. Houston was the first general counsel at the C.I.A., from the agency's creation in 1947 until 1973. His business was keeping the secret agency out of trouble in an open democracy. Espionage is by its nature illegal. Mr. Houston's job was to tell the agency what it could do under American law -- and, more rarely, what it could not.
        Mr. Houston was "truly one of C.I.A.'s founding fathers and enduring legends," said the Director of Central Intelligence, John M. Deutch. As confidant to nine directors, he brought "a special expertise" to his work, said Richard M. Helms, who ran the agency from 1966 to 1973.
        Mr. Houston's expertise was based in part on his longevity. No one else so highly placed served for a generation in the same job at the C.I.A. His 26 years as general counsel was longer than the combined tenures of his eight successors.
        His craftsmanship may be measured by the fact that the agency had few legal problems that became public in his day. Shortly after his departure, many of the agency's cold war secrets began spilling out in newspaper reports and Congressional investigations; a golden era of secrecy ended.
        He was a principal draftsman of the 1947 act that created the C.I.A. and the 1949 law that gave it the power to spend money in secret. Starting in 1950, he created the complex of companies that provided cover for the agency's overseas operations, most famously, Air America, a global airline whose C.I.A. ownership was hidden behind five corporate veils. In 1955, he wrote the contracts and performance specifications that guided the U-2 spy plane from conception to delivery in nine months, a small miracle of creativity.
        After Francis Gary Powers was shot down in his U-2 over the Soviet Union in 1960, Mr. Houston worked to win his freedom in a swap for a convicted Soviet spy, Col. Rudolph Abel. Similarly, after the Bay of Pigs fiasco in 1961, he helped secure the release of imprisoned C.I.A. agents by sending medical supplies to Cuba.
        And in 1962, when he learned that the C.I.A. had hired Mafia bosses in a plot to kill the Cuban leader Fidel Castro, his efforts helped to keep the failed conspiracy secret for more than a decade.
        Lawrence Reed Houston was born on Jan. 4, 1913, in St. Louis, where his father, David F. Houston, was chancellor of Washington University. Two months later, his father became President Woodrow Wilson's Agriculture Secretary; then, in 1920, Treasury Secretary. Mr. Houston admired his father and treasured $5 and $10 bills the elder Mr. Houston signed as the nation's chief financial officer.
        He spent the summers of his youth sailing off Cape Cod and Oyster Bay, and fell in love with the sea, a lifelong romance he renewed in regattas. He graduated from Harvard University in 1935 and the University of Virginia Law School in 1939. After law school, he married Jean Wellford Randolph, a member of a distinguished Virginia family.
        During World War II, he served in the Office of Strategic Services, a forerunner of the C.I.A., notably as deputy chief of the Middle East theater, based in Cairo. There he became fascinated with the practice of intelligence, to which he devoted the rest of his life.
        Mr. Houston was the 15th recipient of the National Security Medal, the highest honor in his field. A Washington resident for nearly 50 years, he was a board member of two local charities, the Hospice of the District of Columbia and Family and Child Services of Washington.
        In addition to his wife of 56 years, he is survived by a sister, Helen Book, of Long Beach, Calif.; a daughter, Deborah Tanzi, of Darnstown, Md.; a son, David, of Berkeley, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      