
        Edward Thompson, a lawyer and firefighter's son who became a New York City Fire Commissioner as well as a judge, died on Saturday at his home in Babylon, L.I. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Thompson was a highly visible commissioner under Mayor Robert F. Wagner in the early 60's. But it was no secret that he wanted to return to the law. He was elected a State Supreme Court justice in Queens in 1964. After he retired in 1977 as Administrative Judge of Civil Court, the State Supreme Court recalled Mr. Thompson in 1987 as a hearing officer in Suffolk County, where he worked until 1993.
        Mr. Thompson was born in Queens. He was in his senior year at the Brooklyn Law School in 1936 when he became a probationary firefighter. He rose to lieutenant in a hook-and-ladder company.
        In 1938 Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed Mr. Thompson, a young lawyer, as an assistant corporation counsel assigned to the legal bureau in the Fire Department. For five years, he prosecuted fire-code violators, the first time that the city's uniformed services did that.
        As a Navy ensign in World War II, he was in a salvage and firefighting unit in the Pacific. La Guardia, in one of his weekly broadcasts from City Hall, named him a magistrate in 1945, and he was sworn in in Manila.
        In 1952 Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri promoted Mr. Thompson to an unexpired term on the Court of Sessions, and Mr. Wagner swore him in for a full 10-year term in 1955. Mr. Thompson was an acting justice of State Supreme Court in Queens when Mr. Wagner named him Fire Commissioner at the end of 1961.
        He lived for many years in Hollis, Queens.
        Surviving are his wife, Doris Blattmachr Thompson; three sons, Edward Jr., of East Moriches, L.I., Neil, of Homosassa Springs, Fla., and Paul, of Baldwin Harbor, L.I.; a daughter, Mary Eve Thompson of Riverhead, L.I.; two brothers, Frank and David, both of Chesapeake, Va., 14 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      