
        Agha Hasan Abedi, the shadowy Pakistani businessman who founded the infamous Bank of Commerce and Credit International, which cheated depositors in more than 70 countries out of $12 billion, died on Saturday at the Aga Khan Hospital in Karachi. He was 74 and had been in ill health since heart attacks forced him to withdraw from the bank in 1988. He lived in Karachi.
        Starting in 1972 with a $2.5 million investment by the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Mr. Abedi built B.C.C.I. into an international financial force. At its peak in the 1980's, the bank had 14,000 employees, 400 offices in 72 countries, 1.3 million depositors and more than $20 billion in assets, at least on paper.
        After the bank collapsed in 1991, investigators discovered that what had been regarded as one of the third world's most glorious success stories had been an operation in which billions of dollars of deposits had been siphoned off through fraudulent loans.
        In addition to granting loans with no expectation of repayment, investigators found, the bank had laundered drug money, financed arms deals and assisted an array of criminal activities.
        Mr. Abedi, noting that he had left the bank three years earlier, insisted that he had done nothing wrong.
        He was, his friends continued to maintain, a poet and a visionary who had been dedicated to creating a bank that would use charity and strategic investments to alleviate poverty in developing countries.
        According to investigators, the bank's vaunted philanthropy was a barely disguised system of bribery in which depositors' money was used to win favor with politicians around the world.
        Whatever it was, for a while it worked. From his base in London, Mr. Abedi, a natty dresser who favored pink shirts, pinstripes and lizard shoes, was an international financial force.
        Mr. Abedi was born in 1922 in northern India where his Shiite Muslim ancestors had been courtiers and advisers to feudal princes for generations. When India was freed from British rule and partitioned in 1947, he and many childhood friends who would later work with him fled to the newly independent Islamic nation of Pakistan, where he immediately went into banking.
        After rising to the top ranks of one bank, he formed his own, but when it was eventually nationalized he decided to start over elsewhere.
        He had once presented the Bedouin ruler of Abu Dhabi, Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahyan, with a rare rug, and the gift and the resulting friendship paid off.
        In 1972, the Sheik put up the $2.5 million in seed money, and Mr. Adedi was off and running. A bank that would serve the third world appealed to wealthy Arabs who were distrustful of Western banks, which some felt exploited Arab wealth to finance Israel's military and economic development.
        Mr. Abedi based the bank in Luxembourg, which is a haven for banks because of its light regulatory oversight.
        It was a measure of his influence that within hours after he suffered a heart attack in 1988 and was found to need a transplant, an international team of top specialists was assembled, some urged to go to his aid by prominent friends, including the former President Jimmy Carter.
        Mr. Abedi never fully recovered from the transplant. He also suffered a stroke, and after selling his interest in the bank to his original backer, Sheik Zayed, he retired to Pakistan, where he lived in seclusion after the scandal began to unfold in 1991.
        Although he faced criminal charges in several countries, including the United States, and was convicted in absentia in the United Arab Emirates, the Pakistani authorities refused to extradite him.
        His survivors include his wife, Rabia, and a daughter, Maha.
      