
        Evelyn Wood, whose search for a way to improve the lives of troubled girls led to the development of speed reading techniques prescribed by Presidents and endorsed by multitudes, died on Saturday in Hospice Family Care in Tucson, Ariz. Mrs. Wood, who lived in Tucson, was 86.
        The tiny, soft-spoken woman who gave her name to Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics liberated students, professionals and business people from the habits that shackled them to the average American's reading rate of 250 to 300 words a minute.
        In courses that proliferated from coast to coast and spread overseas, they learned the methods that enabled them not only to read two to five times faster but also to better retain what they read.
        "So many people are dubious about trying my method because they think they're liable to miss a lot," Mrs. Wood said in an interview a quarter of a century ago. "I say, which would you rather do: eat a dish of rice kernel by kernel or take a spoonful to get a good taste? My reading technique is actually comprehension by accumulation."
        In years of research ignited by a professor who read her 80-page term paper at an astonishing rate while retaining its content, she found people from all walks of life who could read from 1,500 to 6,000 words a minute and sometimes more. And Mrs. Wood (who could herself read 2,700 words a minute), discovered that they shared several traits:
        *They read down the page rather than left to right.
        *They read groups of words or complete thoughts rather than one word at a time.
        *They avoided involuntary rereading of material.
        *Their reading efficiency was applicable to a variety of materials.
        In time, President John F. Kennedy sent a dozen members of the White House staff to the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute in Washington. President Richard M. Nixon sent 35 high-ranking members of his Administration, and President Jimmy Carter followed suit.
        Students learned to break the habits that slowed them, including saying words under their breath, or subvocalizing. And the hand or finger, sweeping down the page, was used to "pace" the eyes at increasingly faster speeds, while the reader was urged to concentrate not on single words but on groups of words -- sentences, clauses and the like -- that make up units of thought.
        At one session, a college student devoured a sociology textbook at the rate of 14,000 words a minute. In another, 25 students were assigned to finish George Orwell's "Animal Farm" in 25 minutes, a feat that required a reading rate of 1,400 words a minute. Most finished in the allotted time, and most scored well on the comprehension test that followed.
        There were few claims that extremely difficult or unfamiliar material could be mastered at accelerated rates. But it was clear that many people could be taught to read faster and more effectively.
        "Speed is not most important, but only through speed do you get good comprehension," Mrs. Wood said.
        It was a theory that Mrs. Wood began to develop during the late 1940's and early 1950's, when she was a teacher and girls' counselor at Jordan High School in Salt Lake City.
        Dealing with underachievers with personality problems, Mrs. Wood realized that they had one thing in common. All were poor readers.
        Mrs. Wood established the school's first remedial reading program and discovered that as the girls read better, their grades improved in every subject and they became better adjusted.
        And she discovered one other thing: the faster the girls read, the better they read.
        She began refining her techniques for faster reading.
        The next breakthrough came when Mrs. Wood, who was born in 1909 in Logan, Utah, returned to the University of Utah. At the college where she had earned her bachelor's degree in English in 1929, she now pursued a master's degree in speech.
        When she turned in her term paper to the head of the department, Dr. C. Lowell Lees, she recalled:
        "I handed Dr. Lees a term paper and watched him flip through the 80 pages at a startling rate, grade the paper and hand it back. He appeared to be reading as fast as he could turn the pages. He knew the total content and was able to tell me not only what was in it, but also what was missing. Intrigued, I clocked him on other material and found he could read at a rate of 2,500 words a minute."
        In 1958, when she was sent on a national promotional tour for "Reading Skills," a groundbreaking book on remedial reading written in collaboration with Marjorie Westcott Barrows of Jordan High, Mrs. Wood began asking everywhere, "Do you know anyone who can read fast?"
        The answers led her to 53 people whose traits came to inform her teaching.
        Later that summer, frustrated with her efforts to increase her own reading speed, she discovered the use of the hand as a pacer.
        "Before I introduced that technique," she once told an interviewer, "only children in the early grades used their fingers on the printed pages to guide their reading. And then they were taught not to!"
        In 1959, with her husband, Doug, Mrs. Wood established the first of her institutes, in Washington. In 1967, she sold the business. It has been owned since September 1993 by Pryor Resources, a business seminar training company in Kansas City, Kan.
        Mrs. Wood continued to teach and was developing a remedial reading program for children when she suffered an incapacitating stroke in 1976.
        Her husband died in 1987. She is survived by her daughter, Carol Davis Evans of Tucson; four grandchildren and three step-grandchildren.
      