
        Carol Fox Sulzberger, the wife of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, and an active volunteer with foundations and social-service organizations, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I. She was 68.
        The cause of her death was cancer.
        Mrs. Sulzberger was a director of the New York City Police Foundation. At one time, she also served on the boards of the National Urban League, the New York Urban League, WAIF/International Social Service, the Girl Scouts of Greater New York and the Cooperative Education Association.
        "She carried a very heavy schedule without talking a lot about it," a friend, Margaret Greenfield, said yesterday. "She did a lot of good works in a very quiet way."
        Mrs. Greenfield and another friend of many years, Sydney Gruson, said friends would remember Mrs. Sulzberger as a woman who jealously guarded the time she spent with her family, her antiques hunting and her passion for the company and conversation of intimates. "She had a wry sense of humor," Mr. Gruson said. "And she was the most direct, honest woman I have ever known."
        An avid reader of The Times, Mrs. Sulzberger especially championed its coverage of fashion and the arts.
        She was born in New York City, the daughter of Estelle and David Fox. Mr. Fox had been president of Jay Thorpe, a New York women's specialty store that has since closed.
        Educated at the Dalton School, she was a graduate of Goddard College in Vermont. In her youth, she spent a number of years with her family in Paris.
        In addition to her husband of 39 years, she is survived by two daughters, Cathy, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Cynthia, of New York City, and two stepchildren, Karen, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Arthur Jr., the publisher of The Times, and seven grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 3 P.M. on Tuesday at Temple Emanu-El on Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. The family said that in lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the New York City Police Foundation at 345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10105.
      