
        Dr. Dan W. Dodson, a Texas sharecropper's son who submitted his sun-baked boyhood prejudices to such a searing intellectual analysis that he became one of the nation's leading advocates of racial equality, died on Aug. 5 in Austin, Tex. He was 88 and had lived in Texas since 1972, when he retired as a professor of sociology at New York University.
        Known as the philosopher of intergroup relations for the torrent of scholarly research papers he produced as director of the N.Y.U. Center for Human Relations Studies, Dr. Dodson did more than provide the theoretical underpinnings for the movement to achieve racial and ethnic harmony.
        From the time he joined the faculty in 1936 and took an apartment in Harlem, he was on the front lines, becoming such an authority on desegregation that he eventually helped draw plans to integrate schools in Washington and elsewhere.
        In 1944, he took a leave from the university to serve four years as executive director of the new Mayor's Committee on Unity. Largely because of his work, the committee, which was formed by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia to deal with intergroup conflicts, became a model for Federal, state and municipal human rights commissions that proliferated two decades later.
        It was a measure of his effectiveness that a single report produced by Dr. Dodson in 1946, which found that major universities maintained secret quota systems to limit the admissions of Jewish, Catholic and black students, was credited with abolishing the practice in New York.
        Education was his main focus, but Dr. Dodson fought prejudice on every front.
        When Harlem residents picketed white merchants on 125th Street in 1948, for example, Dr. Dodson negotiated a settlement in which the merchants agreed to a variety of reforms.
        And when Dr. Dodson got wind of plans to publish 5,000 copies of the notorious anti-Semitic forgery "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion," he persuaded the printer to destroy the type as he looked on, then persuaded the New York Printing Employers Association to adopt a policy against printing hate literature of any kind.
        Beginning in 1945, Dr. Dodson worked quietly with Branch Rickey, the Brooklyn Dodgers president, on plans to break baseball's color barrier. And after the Dodgers hired Jackie Robinson in 1946, Dr. Dodson urged the Yankees and Giants to follow suit.
        When he concluded that agitators with ulterior motives had made "studied attempts" to discredit the police by making false accusations of police brutality against black suspects, Dr. Dodson was as outspoken as ever, denouncing "Bilbos of the North and South of both races, white and Negro, who make their living exploiting race prejudice."
        His main focus, however, was breaking what he saw as a vicious circle of ignorance. As he put it in a speech in 1948: "It is now clear that not only does prejudice produce segregation, but segregation produces prejudice."
        If some were startled to hear such words delivered in a deep Southern accent by a tall, rangy white man, Dr. Dodson made no apologies. Yes, he had been born in the tiny East Texas town of Panther's Chapel, and, yes, he had absorbed all the familiar prejudices of an unreconstructed rural area of the former Confederacy.
        But for Dr. Dodson, who received his early schooling at his local Methodist church, later worked his way through McMurray College in Abilene and obtained a master's degree from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, such prejudices could not survive scrutiny.
        "Most of us accept current prejudices when we're not exposed to the facts," he said in 1946, "but I gradually dropped them as I learned the facts."
        For all his scholarly prominence, Dr. Dodson followed a curious route to sociology. According to his daughter, Beverly Houghton, who announced his death this week, her father was an English major who became so fascinated by the underlying human relationships in novels that he decided to pursue their study beyond literature.
        In addition to Mrs. Houghton, of Piermont, N.Y., he is survived by his wife, Evelyn, a son, Dan Jr., of Austin and a grandson.
      