
        Robert C. Frasure, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs, died today when the vehicle he was in riding in plunged down a hillside outside Sarajevo in Bosnia. He was 53.
        Mr. Frasure was part of a team of American diplomats who were traveling to Sarajevo to talk with the Bosnian Government about a new peace plan being pursued by the Clinton Administration.
        For much of May, Mr. Frasure, a career diplomat, held marathon one-on-one negotiations in Belgrade with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia. Mr. Frasure tried to persuade the Serbian leader to recognize Bosnia's territorial integrity in exchange for having economic sanctions against Serbia suspended.
        In recent months, Mr. Frasure flew to Europe once or twice a month in his role as the main American representative to the so-called contact group of nations -- the United States, Russia, Britain, France and Germany -- which has been tryiing to broker an end to the Balkan war.
        State Department officials say that Richard Holbrooke, the Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs, relied on Mr. Frasure for much of the most delicate diplomacy regarding the war in Bosnia.
        Before becoming Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in July 1994, Mr. Frasure was Ambassador to Estonia. In September 1991, as the charge d'affaires in Estonia, he oversaw the re-establishment of an American diplomatic presence in that Baltic country after it declared independence from the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Frasure was born in Morgantown, W.Va., on April 20, 1942. His father taught at West Virginia University and his mother was a public school teacher.
        He received a bachelor's degree from West Virginia University and later attended the London School of Economics. He received a Ph.D. from Duke University.
        After joining the Foreign Service in 1974, he served in more than half a dozen overseas posts, including Geneva, Bonn, Lagos, London, Pretoria and Addis Ababa.
        In 1990 and 1991, he served on the staff of the National Security Council in the Bush Administration. In June 1991, President Bush awarded him the Presidential Medal for Exceptional Service for his role in the downfall of the Mengistu regime in Ethiopia and the rescue of more than 15,000 Ethiopian Jews who were airlifted to Israel.
        Mr. Frasure, who lived in Falls Church, Va., is survived by his wife, Katharina Witting, and two daughters, Sarah and Virginia.
      