
        Rabbi Isaac Lewin, a scholar of Jewish history and the history of Jewish law who often spoke for Orthodox Jewry before international bodies, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        Rabbi Lewin was professor emeritus of Jewish history at the Bernard Revel Graduate School of Yeshiva University. He taught at Yeshiva from 1944 until his retirement 10 years ago.
        His writings were published in English, Hebrew, Yiddish, Polish and German. He was an architect of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and Discrimination Based on Religion, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1981. For this, he was awarded the United Nation's Medal of Peace.
        Rabbi Lewin was born in Wieliczka, near Cracow, was ordained as a rabbi in Poland in 1935 and received a law degree two years later. He served two terms on the City Council of Lodz, Poland's second-largest city.
        He arrived in the United States in 1941 and worked for the rescue of Jews left behind in Nazi-occupied Europe. After V-E Day he promptly went on a relief mission to help Holocaust survivors and displaced persons.
        After the war, he became the spokesman for the Agudas Israel World Organization before the United Nations Social and Economic Council. A collection of his addresses there and in other international forums was published in 1953.
        He was the editor of "These I Will Remember," two volumes in Hebrew of biographies of Jewish leaders who perished in World War II. He was among a delegation of Orthodox rabbis who obtained a 1983 agreement from the Polish Government to help restore the Jewish cemeteries that were neglected since the war.
        The city of Warsaw presented its Golden Badge of Merit to him in 1988, honoring him for promoting international relations and cooperation among peoples.
        At Yeshiva, he also served as principal of Jewish studies at the university's high school for girls.
        Rabbi Lewin is survived by two sons, Nathan Lewin of Washington and Rabbi Naftali Lewin of Manhattan, and two granddaughters. His wife of 45 years, Peppy Sternheim Lewin, died in 1980.
      