
        Gay Wilson Allen, a scholar and biographer who was a leading authority on Walt Whitman, died on Sunday at Rex Hospital in Raleigh, N.C. He was 92 and had moved to Raleigh in 1988 from Oradell, N.J.
        Professor Allen retired in 1969 from New York University's English department, which he joined in 1946. He taught at Bowling Green State University, in Bowling Green, Ohio, from 1935 to 1946.
        His 1955 work "The Solitary Singer: A Critical Biography of Walt Whitman" has won wide praise over the years. When it was published, it was hailed in The New York Times as one of the most complete biographies of Whitman yet written and "a work of admirable scholarship." Another critic, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, said of Professor Allen, "By his scholarly use of new materials and perspectives he has given us our most thorough and reliable Whitman biography."
        Professor Allen was the son of a carpenter, as was Whitman, who lived from 1819 to 1892 and is widely considered the greatest American poet. In "The Solitary Singer," Professor Allen demonstrated that Whitman had an appealing personality and could manage to be nearly lovable.
        But the biography also showed the poet's less attractive aspects, including his fondness for telling lies about himself. Professor Allen wrote that Whitman's claims to have had a love affair in Louisiana and to have sired six children out of wedlock were entirely false.
        Nonetheless, Professor Allen liked to accentuate the positive in the biographer's role. "Writing biography," he observed, "is a one-way transaction in friendship."
        His other works about Whitman include "The New Walt Whitman Handbook" (1987) and "A Reader's Guide to Walt Whitman" (1971). He was a co-editor of the six-volume "Walt Whitman: Notebooks and Unpublished Prose Manuscripts" (1984) and a general editor of the multi-volume "Collected Writings of Walt Whitman" of which those six volumes are part.
        Professor Allen also won wide admiration for his 1967 book, "William James: A Biography," about the philosopher and psychologist (1842-1910). When the book appeared, Professor R. W. B. Lewis of Yale, another noted biographer, wrote in The New York Times Book Review, "A principal merit of Gay Wilson Allen's crowded and constantly informative biography is Mr. Allen's well and newly documented account of that family, and his demonstration that, for all its immense intellectual vigor, it was a family beset by personal calamities and disorders."
        Professor Allen's 1981 book on Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Waldo Emerson: A Biography," was lauded by Paul Zweig, then the chairman of the comparative literature department at Queens College, who said in The Times Book Review: "Professor Allen's best feature as a biographer -- already apparent in his important biography of Walt Whitman, 'The Solitary Singer' -- is an attitude of neutral sympathy. The life is offered to us with all its contradictions and its shades of darkness."
        The book was briefly a best seller and was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.
        All told, Professor Allen was the author or co-author of more than a dozen books.
        In 1949, he was one of the founders of the Walt Whitman Birthplace Association, which was instrumental in the founding of what is now the Walt Whitman Birthplace State Historic Site in Huntington, L.I. The site had 18,000 visitors in 1993, the year after the centennial of Whitman's death.
        Professor Allen once spent a night in the house in Camden, N.J., where Whitman died. Asked by a visitor in 1985 whether he had heard any unnerving noises that night, he said, "Not a sound -- I slept soundly all night."
        The honors he received included the Modern Language Association's Lowell Prize, two Guggenheim fellowships and induction into the New Jersey Literary Hall of Fame.
        Professor Allen was born in Lake Junaluska, N.C., and was reared on a farm near Canton, N.C., where he went to high school. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from Duke University and a Ph.D. in English in 1934 from the University of Wisconsin.
        His wife of 59 years, the former Evie Allison, died in 1988. He is survived by a sister, Mary E. Allen of Raleigh.
      