
        Stephen M. Goldfeld, a Princeton University professor and former provost who served on the Council of Economic Advisers during the Carter Administration, died on Friday at his home in Princeton Township, N.J. Dr. Goldfeld was 55.
        The cause of death was cancer, said Jacquelyn Savani, a spokeswoman for the university.
        An expert on financial institutions and econometrics, a heavily mathematical branch of economics involving statistical analysis, Dr. Goldfeld was 39 when he was named chief forecaster on the President's three-member council in 1980.
        When Dr. Goldfeld took a leave from Princeton and arcane economic concepts to go to Washington, he had been a full professor for 10 years and had been a senior staff economist with the council in 1966 and 1967.
        "The only hard part of forecasting is doing it when things are in great disarray," he said after joining the Carter Administration. "Since I've come, things have seemed as if we knew what was going on."
        The next year, after Jimmy Carter was defeated by Ronald Reagan, Dr. Goldfeld returned to Princeton.  He was chairman of the economics department from 1981 to 1985 and again from 1990 to 1993, when he was named provost, a post he held until the end of June.
        Besides being a visiting faculty member at Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium, the University of California at Berkeley and the Technion in Haifa, Israel, Dr. Goldfeld was also on the National Commission for Employment Policy, a consultant to the Federal Reserve Board and a member and senior adviser of the Brookings Institution and its panel on economic activity.
        Dr. Goldfeld was associate editor of American Economic Review and five other major economic journals.  He also wrote several books, among them "Commercial Bank Behavior and Economic Activity" (1966) and, with R. E. Quandt, "Nonlinear Methods in Econometrics" (1971), both published by North-Holland Publishing Company; and, with L. V. Chandler, "The Economics of Money and Banking," published in 1981 by Harper & Row.
        Dr. Goldfeld was born in the Bronx. A mathematics major, he received a bachelor of arts degree from Harvard University in 1960 and his doctorate in economics three years later from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. That year, he joined the Princeton faculty. Three years later, at the age of 26, he was granted tenure, and in 1969 was promoted to full professor.
        Dr. Goldfeld is survived by his wife, Laura; a son, Keith, of Manhattan; a daughter, Melanie, of Berkeley, Calif.; and his mother, Ethel Yurman of Deerfield Beach, Fla.
      