
        Dr. Peter Gergely, who pioneered advances in structural engineering and fought in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, died on Friday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 59 years old.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Kinga.
        Dr. Gergely's research laid the groundwork for improvements in designs used in national building codes and nuclear reactors.
        In researching sites for nuclear reactors, which are highly sensitive to seismic activity, Dr. Gergely increased awareness about the earthquake potential of regions like the East Coast, where earthquakes previously were not considered a threat.  Dr. Gergely was a leader and founder of the National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was instrumental in developing improved building codes for areas of low and moderate seismic activity.
        His earlier research in the 1960's and 1970's predicted the cracking behavior of concrete structures under high stress. He also helped unravel the complex interaction of concrete and steel reinforcements, especially during earthquakes.
        A professor of civil and environmental engineering at Cornell University, Dr. Gergely was an author of an undergraduate textbook series in the 1970's and published more than 100 technical papers.
        Dr. Gergely was born in Budapest on Feb. 12, 1936. In his youth, he dreamed of becoming a mathematician. But as a teen-ager, he was advised to find a more practical profession and he turned to engineering.
        He entered the Technical University of Budapest in 1954 but left in 1956 to join the anti-Communist freedom fighters in the Hungarian Revolution. He was one of the last resistance fighters to escape before Soviet troops invaded. He fled to Austria, then immigrated to Canada, where he received a bachelor's degree in civil engineering at McGill University in Montreal in 1960.
        He received a doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1963. Immediately afterward, he joined the faculty of Cornell University, becoming a full professor in 1975.
        An avid chess player and devotee of Mozart, Dr. Gergely had been working on his autobiography at his death. His son, Zoltan, intends to complete the work.
        In addition to his wife and son, he is survived by a daughter, Illa Burbank, and a grandson, Istvan Burbank, both of Ithaca; and a sister, Agota Kuhn, of Pecs, Hungary.
      