
        Fay Honey Knopp, an advocate of peace and civil rights who founded a Quaker ministry for men and women in prisons around the country, died on Thursday at her home in Shoreham, Vt. A former resident of Westport, Conn., she was 76.
        The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, her family said in reporting her death this week.
        A longtime Quaker minister to prisons, Mrs. Knopp retired two years ago as director of the Safer Society Program, which operates under the auspices of the New York State Council of Churches. The program, a national referral service for sex offenders seeking therapy, grew out of her visits to prison and the Prison Research Education Action Program she founded in 1976.
        Under her leadership, an affiliated service, the Safer Society Press, produced about 20 books, research studies, manuals and training videos dealing with the treatment and prevention of sex-related crimes and intended for abusers and their victims.
        Her affiliation with the Society of Friends dated to a peace demonstration in 1939. She became a Quaker in 1962 and was designated a "minister of record" to serve as a prison visitor throughout the Federal penitentiary system.
        Over the years she also served as director of the New York Region of the American Friends Service Committee, projects director for the National Peace Education Division in Philadelphia and counselor to many conscientious objectors.
        Prevention of sexual abuse was a major concern in her nearly 40 years of work with prisoners and, she said, she would be "tough with those guys."
        "Society has let them off the hook by just locking them up," she told an interviewer in 1988. "I'm very up front with them. Yes, most of them were sexually abused as children, but that can't be an excuse to go out and abuse other people."
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., she studied at the Hartford Art School, the New School for Social Research and the University of California at Los Angeles.
        She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      