
        Verner E. Suomi, a meteorologist who developed weather-forecasting technology that makes it easier to plan space missions, agricultural irrigation and family picnics, died Sunday at University Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 79.
        Dr. Suomi died of congestive heart failure, said a spokeswoman at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where Dr. Suomi had taught and done research since 1948.
        Dr. Suomi, a professor of atmospheric science, has been internationally recognized as a developer of imaging technologies that made modern weather satellites possible.
        His most important invention may have been the spin-scan camera, which he developed in 1964. Mounted on satellites, spin-scan cameras transmit images back to earth from 25,000 miles above the Equator and have revolutionized weather forecasting and studies of the earth's atmosphere.
        "His inventions were simple and elegant, and their consequences are ubiquitous," said John D. Wiley, provost at Wisconsin-Madison. "Anyone looking at a satellite image of earth on the evening weather is looking at the product of a rare mind."
        Dr. Suomi, who used to say that his Finnish ancestors pronounced the name "Sue-WOE-me" but that "SUE-me" was close enough, received a National Medal of Science from President Jimmy Carter in 1977.
        In 1983, he was the 103d recipient of the Franklin Medal, given by the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia, a nonprofit center that supports scientific research and promotes science education. Previous winners included Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Orville Wright and Enrico Fermi.
        Dr. Suomi's other honors included the Charles Franklin Brooks Award from the American Meteorological Society in 1980 and election to the National Academy of Engineering in 1966.
        In 1964, Dr. Suomi served as chief scientist for the United States Weather Bureau. The next year, he was a co-founder of the Space Science and Engineering Center at Wisconsin-Madison. Begun with $500,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the center specializes in studies of the atmospheres and the other planets, construction of space-flight equipment and imaging tools for meteorologists and space scientists.
        Dr. Suomi's interest and expertise in atmospheric conditions had a decidedly interplanetary flavor. Instruments developed by him were vital components of the Explorer satellites, sent aloft at the dawn of the space age, and of the probes to Venus in the 1970's. Dr. Suomi also served on an international team of scientists who interpreted images as they were transmitted from Venus.
        A native of Eveleth, Minn., Verner Edward Suomi received a bachelor's degree in engineering from Winona Teachers College in Minnesota in 1938. He briefly taught science and mathematics at a junior high school in Faribault, Minn., and at the start of World War II he made a decision that changed his life and, ultimately, the history of weather forecasting.
        At war's outbreak, he enrolled in a civil air patrol course and learned the rudiments of meteorology. He found the subject so fascinating that he began to study the subject at the University of Chicago and to teach it to wartime flyers.
        In 1953, he received a doctorate in meteorology from the University of Chicago. His Ph.D. thesis involved a study of sunshine falling on a field of corn. From close observation, Dr. Suomi concluded that most of the sunlight went toward evaporating moisture in the soil rather than raising the soil's temperature.
        In a sense, he realized, the entire planet Earth is simply one big cornfield, getting and losing heat and moisture -- making weather -- in ways that might be measured and predicted, if scientists were observant and their instruments precise.
        Dr. Suomi's interest in weather drove his life at every level. In the mid-1960's, he was a consultant to the Weather Bureau on the possible effects of jet contrails on the climate. And he designed his home with an overhanging roof that admitted the sunshine in winter and excluded it in summer.
        Dr. Suomi carried on a celebrated 30-year feud with Dr. Reid A. Bryson, another eminent meteorologist at the University of Wisconsin. Once close friends -- both studied at the University of Chicago, and they helped each other build their homes -- they grew apart scientifically. Their rift appeared to grow from different approaches, with Dr. Bryston more interested in theory and Dr. Suomi in data-gathering, and from the storms generated by two towering egos.
        Dr. Suomi is survived by his wife, Paula; two sons, Eric of Middleton, Wis., and Stephen of Bethesda, Md.; a daughter, Lois Young of Houghton, Mich.; two sisters, Esther Zikmund of Hibbing, Minn., and Edith Bachman of Denton, Tex., and two grandchildren.
      