
        John Helm Pratt, a Federal judge in Washington whose rulings over nearly three decades helped to shape legal definitions of civil rights and discrimination, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 84.
        Judge Pratt served on the United States District Court in Washington from 1968 until his death. His high-profile cases included the Watergate trial of G. Gordon Liddy and an unsuccessful appeal by James R. Hoffa, the Teamsters union president, to lift terms of a Presidential pardon that barred him from running for union office again.
        Some of his most significant decisions involved battles over individual freedoms and civil rights.
        In 1971, Judge Pratt ordered the Defense Department to restore the security clearances of two homosexuals who lost jobs with civilian defense contractors after their clearances were revoked. In 1972, the judge issued a ruling that required the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare to withhold Federal money from 213 school districts in 17 states because the schools had failed to desegregate.
        In 1977 and 1983, the judge issued orders requiring Federal efforts to combat bias in schools against women, minority groups and the handicapped. And in 1988, Judge Pratt found that Catherine Broderick, a former lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission, had been a victim of sexual discrimination in the S.E.C.'s Washington office.
        In 1989, Judge Pratt became a senior judge on the court and chose to handle only civil cases, believing that Federal mandatory sentencing requirements in drug cases were too harsh for first-time offenders.
        Judge Pratt, a native of New Hampshire, received undergraduate and law school degrees from Harvard University. He served in the Marine Corps in World War II, receiving the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
        Judge Pratt is survived by his wife, Bernice Safford Pratt, and five children, Sister Clare Pratt, of Rome; Lucinda Pratt Pearlman of Berkeley, Calif.; John H. Pratt, Jr. of Red Bank, N.J.; Patricia Pratt Moriarty of Wellesley Hills, Mass.; and Marry Pratt Brandenburg of Columbia, Md. He is also survived by two brothers, a retired Navy captain, William V. Pratt of Bethesda, Md., and a retired Navy rear admiral, Richard R. Pratt of Jacksonville, Fla.; two sisters, Marguerite Pratt Foley of Chevy Chase, Md., and Lucinda Pratt Ferrill of Las Cruces, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
      