
        Cleveland Robinson, a veteran labor official and civil-rights advocate, died on Wednesday at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine's hospital in the Bronx. A resident of the Bronx, he was 80.
        The cause was kidney failure, his family said.
        A former adviser on labor to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Mr. Robinson was chairman of the New York State Martin Luther King Jr. Commission at his death.
        The commission plans observances for Dr. King's birthday, an official holiday marked on the third Monday in January, and it promotes educational programs on civil rights and nonviolent social change. It was formed by the Legislature in 1985 with Harry Belafonte as its chairman; Mr. Robinson, the founding vice chairman, succeeded him two years ago.
        Mr. Robinson was the administrative chairman of the March on Washington in August 1963. At the time, he was also a member of the New York City Commission on Human Rights. Mr. Robinson was associated with the commission during the administrations of Robert F. Wagner and John V. Lindsay.
        In the labor movement, he was associated with the Negro American Labor Council, first as vice president and later as president. That body took up the struggle to get minority representation in the leadership of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and its constituent unions.  Working within the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the council sought to bring the economic strength of black union workers to bear.
        From 1952 until his retirement in 1992, Mr. Robinson led District 65 and its some 30,000 members in small shops and department stores in New York City. The organization was affiliated with the Retail, Wholesale and Department Stores Employees Union until 1969.
        District 65 later affiliated with the United Auto Workers. It dissolved in 1992 when Mr. Robinson retired as secretary-treasurer and the district's workers reorganized into 10 locals of the U.A.W.
        Cleveland Lowellyn Robinson was born in Swabys Hope, a rural parish of Manchester, Jamaica, and immigrated to the United States in 1944.
        Two years later, he unionized a Manhattan dry goods store where he worked. In 1947, he joined the staff of District 65 as an organizer. He was elected vice president in 1950 and secretary-treasurer in 1952.
        Through the years, Mr. Robinson became a vocal opponent of apartheid in South Africa. In 1990, he was co-chairman for the official visit of Nelson Mandela to New York.
        He is survived by his wife of 18 years, Doreen McPherson Robinson; two sons, Winston of West Hempstead, L.I., and Noel of the Bronx; a daughter, Barbara Stuart of Boston; a sister, Myra Sinclair of the Bronx, and six grandchildren. His first wife, Susan Jenkins Robinson, died in 1976.
      