
        Nanni Loy, an Italian director whose work included dramatic films on the Italian Resistance, zany tragicomedies set in Naples and popular television programs, died on Monday at a beach resort near Rome. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Giovanni Loy was born in Cagliari, Sardinia, and earned a law degree before studying in the early 1950's at the Experimental Center for film in Rome. He directed his earliest films, including the thriller "The Robber's Word" (1957), with a fellow student, Gianni Puccini. In the early 1960's he broke out on his own with a series of films on the wartime Italian Resistance, most notably "The Four Days of Naples" (1962), which recounted the 1943 uprising against the Nazis in that southern Italian city and drew praise for its realism.
        In 1963 Mr. Loy switched to television, directing a popular Italian version of "Candid Camera." A standard gag was having someone enter a coffee bar with a pastry in hand and ask a coffee-sipping patron, "Pardon me, may I dunk?"
        Breaking off his work in television in 1965, Mr. Loy turned to film comedies, including "The Head of the Family" (1967) with Leslie Caron and Nino Manfredi, about the agitated love life of two leftist intellectuals. In the 1980's he returned to the contradictions of Naples with tragicomical films like "Cafe Express" (1980), in which Mr. Manfredi portrayed a confirmed master in the Neapolitan art of landing on one's feet, and "Picone Sent Me" (1983), a portrait of a steelworker inadvertently turned racketeer.
        In addition to directing 17 feature films, Mr. Loy directed and acted in numerous television dramas. A fuzzy-haired man with spectacles and pipe who looked the classic 1960's leftist intellectual, he was a familiar figure in the cafes of central Rome.
        Just this week Mr. Loy announced what would have been his next film project, "My Savage Friend," with Sidney Poitier, the story of the friendship between an Ethiopian prince and the son of a Fascist official during Italy's wartime occupation of Ethiopia.
        Mr. Loy is survived by his companion, Elvira Carteny, and four children, Tommaso, Francesco, Caterina and Guglielmo.
      