
        Trekkie Parsons, a British artist to whom Leonard Woolf expressed love, died on July 24 in a hospital in Lewes, England. She was 93 and lived in Lewes.
        Her death was reported on Saturday by The Independent, which said that as a widower Woolf had written to her, "To know you and love you has been the best thing in life."
        Mrs. Parsons, a strong-willed, warmhearted person, was a skilled hostess as well as an artist, trained at the Slade School in London.
        Between the world wars, her sister Alice, a novelist, introduced her to Leonard and Virginia Woolf, who were leading figures in the Bloomsbury group, the fabled circle of writers, critics and artists.
        The Woolfs assigned Mrs. Parsons to design dust jackets for some books done by the London publishing house they operated, including Vita Sackville-West's 1931 novel, "All Passion Spent."
        In 1941 Mrs. Woolf, an innovative novelist who has come to be seen as a significant force in 20th-century fiction, committed suicide. Afterward, Mrs. Parsons, who had married another publisher, Ian Parsons, in 1934, saw a great deal of Mr. Woolf, who died in 1969.
        When the book "Letters of Leonard Woolf," edited by Frederic Spotts, was published in 1989, Leon Edel had this to say about Leonard Woolf's relationship with Mrs. Parsons:
        "Letters in this volume tell us what was only implicit in his autobiography, that after Virginia's death Woolf found support and love in the person of Trekkie Parsons. The letters to Mrs. Parsons are filled with profound feelings of love and affection. It was she who accompanied Woolf on his late travels. Mrs. Parsons supported him also through the serenities of his old age."
        Mrs. Parsons was born to British parents in Durban, South Africa, and named Marjorie Tulip Ritchie. She soon acquired the nickname Trekkie. The family moved back to Britain during World War I. Her early marriage to Peter Brooker was dissolved. Mr. Parsons died in 1980.
      