
        Bartlett Jere Whiting, a professor emeritus of English at Harvard University who was renowned for his compilations of proverbs and for his classes on Chaucer, died last Thursday at Waldo County Hospital in Belfast, Me. He was 90 and lived in Northport, Me., in the house where he was born.
        Professor Whiting was a scholar of Middle English whose witty classes on the great early English poet were a fixture of campus life at Harvard for some 40 years.
        And while generations of graduate and undergraduate students carried away his classroom teachings, his most durable legacy may be the books that reflected the depth of his scholarship in the study of proverbs.
        Among them were "Modern Proverbs and Proverbial Sayings" (1989) and, with his wife, Helen Wescott Whiting, "Proverb Sentences and Proverbial Phrases From English Writings Mainly Before 1500" (1968).
        The books were a form of lexicography in which the professor collected, catalogued and arranged proverbs.
        In A Dictionary of American Proverbs and Proverbial Phrases, 1820-1880 (1958), written with Archer Taylor, the authors scoured some 200 books by authors like Emerson, Hawthorne, Melville and Twain in discussing such phrases as "no great shakes," "higher'n a kite" and "scarce as hen's teeth."
        In Professor Whiting's book "Early American Proverbs and Proverbial Phrases" (1977), the saying "offense is the best defense" was traced to the 1700's.
        Professor Whiting's interest in proverbs was apparent as early as his senior thesis at Harvard. And his first book, published by Harvard in 1934 and reprinted in 1973 by AMS Press, was "Chaucer's Use of Proverbs."
        Professor Whiting, who was born in 1904, began his education in Northport, where his mother was both his teacher and the superintendent of schools, and continued it in Belfast, where he graduated from high school in 1921 at the top of his class.
        In the foreword to one of Professor Whiting's books on proverbs appeared a little sketch that professed to tell of the meeting that led A. Lawrence Lowell, Harvard's president from 1909 to 1933, to recruit young Mr. Whiting for the university where he was to spend his career:
        "Around Harvard Yard one used to hear the story of how president Lowell, motoring down a back road in the countryside near Belfast, Me., in the late summer of 1921, espied a boy sitting beneath a tree intent upon a book. Pleased and puzzled at the display of literacy in so unexpected a setting, he stopped the automobile and asked the lad, 'What are you reading?'
        " 'Aristophanes, sir.'
        " 'In Greek?'
        " Why, yes, sir.'
        " Get in this car, boy. You are going to Cambridge with me.'
        "That, students assured one another, is how Professor Whiting first came to Harvard."
        He earned his bachelor of arts degree in 1925 and joined the tutorial staff of the Harvard English department in 1926, beginning an association that lasted until his retirement in 1975 with the title Gurney Professor of English.
        Among the organizations that counted him a member were the Medieval Academy, which elected him a fellow; the Modern Language Association; the American Council of Learned Societies, and Phi Beta Kappa.
        Professor Whiting's wife, whom he met in high school and married in 1928, died in 1977. He is survived by a son, Jere, of Northport; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      