
        Rufus R. Hessberg, a former paratroop surgeon who became one of the country's leading experts in aerospace medicine, died on Thursday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 74 and lived in Upper Marlboro, Md.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Pamela Day, managing editor of the Aerospace Medical Association, from which Dr. Hessberg had retired in 1992 as executive vice president.
        After retiring, Dr. Hessberg continued to work twice a week as a volunteer at the association and collapsed at its Alexandria offices, Ms. Day said yesterday.
        He spent 28 years in the Air Force, retiring with the rank of colonel in 1973. From then until he became head of the medical association in 1979, he served as director of space medicine for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, studying the physical effects of space flight on humans.
        A graduate of the Air Force's aviation medicine school, he underwent survival and parachutist training as well. In January 1949 he was part of Operation Haylift, in which Flying Boxcars and helicopters dropped food and cattle feed to snowbound farmers in sections of Colorado, Wyoming, Nebraska and South Dakota.
        On his missions, flown in icy weather and in unheated small planes, he landed in isolated places to tend to the sick and people suffering from exposure. In some cases patients were airlifted out by helicopter.
        He became chief of an aeromedical laboratory at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico and in 1958 started its "chimp in space" project to study the effects of sudden acceleration, weightlessness, restraint and isolation on chimpanzees. He considered the primates ideal subjects for space because they were similar to humans "metabolically, physically and temperamentally," he said
        At Holloman, Dr. Hessberg was in charge of developing life-support tests for flights for two chimps, Enos and Ham. He was a major figure in the management and missile operations that culminated in the successful launch, flight and recovery of a chimpanzee aboard a Mercury Redstone system.
        His work showed how well astronauts could live beyond Earth and whether such a life damaged their physical condition. He was based at NASA's Office of Manned Space Flight and observed astronauts' reactions during Mercury, Gemini and Apollo flights.
        The Aerospace Medical Association has more than 4,000 members among medical and scientific specialists engaged in clinical, operational and research activities in aviation, space and environmental medicine. During his tenure he guided the association's growth and expanded member services.
        A native of Albany, Dr. Hessberg graduated from Yale College and, in 1946, from Albany Medical College.
        Dr. Hessberg is survived by his wife of 49 years, Marjorie Graham Hessberg; two sons, Steven R., of Rome and Lee R., of Albany, and four grandchildren.
      