
        John Cameron Swayze, one of television's first evening news anchors and the man who introduced the line, "It takes a licking and keeps on ticking," into popular culture as the voice of Timex watches, died on Tuesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Swayze, whose dark good looks and crisp but folksy voice made him a household name in the early years of television, started his career as a newspaper reporter, then became a radio broadcaster and switched permanently to television in 1949 as host of the "Camel News Caravan," a 15-minute news program broadcast five times a week on NBC.
        The program, which was sponsored by Camel cigarettes, replaced the network's straight newsreel format and became the prototype of modern newscasts, with live news events, interviews with entertainers and officials and roundups by commentators from different cities.
        Mr. Swayze, who grew up in Atchison, Kan., had wanted to be an actor. His trademark lapel carnation, which viewers did not discover was red until the show was shown in color in 1954, and his familiar opening line -- inviting viewers to join him "hopscotching the world for headlines" -- brought a light, jaunty touch to the news.
        He alternated his news job with appearances on several other programs in the 1950's, serving as a permanent panel member on NBC's quiz show "Who Said That?" in which he dazzled the audience with a seemingly encyclopedic memory of current events. On Sundays, he also served as the master of ceremonies of a children's educational show, "Watch the World."
        But it was as the stentorian-voiced pitchman for Timex watches, which he became after being replaced by Chet Huntley and David Brinkley in 1956, that gave Mr. Swayze lasting recognition. The catch phrase was widely appropriated in fields as diverse as sports, politics and business to denote toughness.
        The commercials, which continued for 20 years, featured Mr. Swayze presiding as the watches were subjected to various kinds of abuse only to emerge intact. In one a watch was strapped to a tackle line and cast off a deep-sea fishing boat. A commercial made in Hawaii showed a watch attached to the pontoon of a plane that landed on the water.
        In a memorable commercial that was broadcast live during the Steve Allen show in 1958, a watch was fastened to the propeller of an outboard motor and the motor was run in a tank of water. But when Mr. Swayze reached for the watch after the test, it was gone. Without missing a beat, he said that it was probably still ticking at the bottom of the tank.
        For each advertisement, Mr. Swayze contributed an air of authority and humor as he combined the roles of newsman and pitchman.
        Like many broadcasters of his time, he had melded news and commercial enterprise almost from the beginning of his career, once marketing his own line of silk neckties, which bore his signature. He also invented a board game called Swayze, in which contestants tested their knowledge of current events.
        Mr. Swayze was born in Wichita, Kan., in 1906, and started his career as a reporter and editor at The Kansas City Journal-Post. He also worked in radio in Kansas before getting his start with NBC.
        He made his first mark in television in 1948, covering the Presidential nominating conventions in Philadelphia for NBC. His performance impressed network executives and he was persuaded to switch to television.
        Mr. Swayze, who was sometimes criticized during his years on the "Camel News Caravan" for dwelling on pictures and personalities more than on current events, never pretended that his main concern was hard-hitting news.
        "Leaving people feeling good," he said in one interview. "That's my role."
        His son, John Cameron Swayze Jr., said in an interview on Tuesday with The Herald Tribune in Sarasota, Fla., that his father "managed to project a certain innocence, a feeling of promise, a genuine friendliness," adding: "His favorite signoff was, 'That's the story, glad we could get together.' When he signed off with 'Glad we could get together,' he really meant it, and I think people understood that he meant it."
        Mr. Swayze moved last year to Sarasota, where he had a summer home, from Old Greenwich, Conn., as his health began to fail.
        In addition to his son, Cameron, of Bedford, N.Y., who is an anchor on WCBS Radio, he is survived by his wife, Beulah Mae; a daughter, Suzanne Patrick of Alexandria, Va.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      