
        Frank Perry, the director of "David and Lisa," "Diary of a Mad Housewife," "Mommie Dearest," "On the Bridge" and other films, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Aspen, Colo.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said the writer Barbara Goldsmith, who was his second wife.
        When he was diagnosed with cancer five years ago, Mr. Perry was told he had about a year to live. He decided "to beat the disease" by making a film about it.
        The result, "On the Bridge," was his harrowing journal. Playing the leading role in his film, he explored diverse methods of treatment, went to seminars, interviewed cancer survivors and besieged his doctor with probing questions. He believed that working on the documentary prolonged his life.
        Released in 1993, "On the Bridge" was shown at festivals and became an international success. In the film, Mr. Perry tells his oncologist, "I know I'm not out of the woods, but being in the woods has been wonderful for me." Reviewing the documentary in The New York Times, Janet Maslin said, "This film, a brave and helpful chronicle of Mr. Perry's experience, succeeds in making that statement ring true." Its "prevailing spirit is one of affirmation and curiosity," she added.
        Mr. Perry's first movie, "David and Lisa" (1962), was an astonishing sleeper. Written by his first wife, Eleanor, it is the story of two emotionally disturbed adolescents (played by Keir Dullea and Janet Margolin). Filmed in five weeks on a minuscule budget of $200,000, it far outstripped ostensibly more commercial rivals. It won prizes at the Venice and San Francisco film festivals and received Academy Award nominations for direction and screenwriting.
        At the time, Jean Renoir called Mr. Perry "a young master" and the film "a turning point in the history of world cinema." It helped open the door for more American independent movies and set the Perrys off on their careers. After their marriage and partnership ended, Mrs. Perry continued work as a playwright and screenwriter and Mr. Perry as a director.
        Even as his movies became more expensive and he broadened his range to westerns, comedies and thrillers, Mr. Perry held to first principles. "David and Lisa" remained his model: The story and the characters came first.
        Looking back on his work in 1993, he said it reflected a fascination with "humanism, with that which celebrates what it is to be human: vulnerability, fallibility, fragility." Many of his films dealt with relationships in crisis, personal studies of troubled adolescents and equally troubled marital partners. He thought of his first and last films as "bookends," as works that were "intimate and very close."
        Throughout his career, he was known as a man of great determination and as a fast worker, a man whose motto was "cut, print, edit, distribute." As one actor recalled, if Mr. Perry liked the first take, he printed it and went on to the next scene.
        He was born in New York City on Aug. 21, 1930, and studied at the University of Miami. Before turning to film, he was a theatrical stage manager and associate producer for the Theater Guild. On his own, he produced "The Pretenders" off Broadway and was the host of the "Playwright at Work" series on public television.
        In 1961, his wife's teen-age daughter, Ann, brought the book "Lisa and David" to her mother's attention. Mrs. Perry was so drawn to the fictionalized case history by Dr. Theodore Isaac Rubin, a psychiatrist, that she put aside her playwriting and wrote a screenplay. Her husband, who had never directed a film, was enlisted as director. They raised the money for the film from small investors, cast it largely with unknowns and kept it as small as possible.
        The team was not able to equal the movie's overwhelming success in its next films, "Ladybug, Ladybug," "The Swimmer" (based on the John Cheever story) and "Last Summer."
        But the Perrys regained their stride with "Diary of a Mad Housewife" (1970), adapted from the Sue Kaufman novel, a sardonic study of a disintegrating marriage between a born victim (Carrie Snodgress) and an oppressive husband (Richard Benjamin). It is the wife's misfortune to have her one extramarital romance with a cad (Frank Langella). "Play It as It Lays," which followed, was Mr. Perry's first Hollywood-based film.
        In 1981 he made "Mommie Dearest," his biggest and most uncharacteristic film, a soap opera about the life of Joan Crawford, which gave Faye Dunaway her most flamboyant role. Mr. Perry diversified his work with "Compromising Positions," a 1985 film starring Susan Sarandon that was based on Susan Isaacs's comic mystery about the murder of a lascivious dentist. In his review in The Times, Vincent Canby called it a "nastily funny suburban satire."
        Among his other films were "Doc," "Man on a Swing," "Rancho Deluxe," "Monsignor" and "Hello Again." He also filmed a series of Truman Capote stories for television, beginning with "A Christmas Memory" (starring Geraldine Page). Three of the Capote stories were later released as a theatrical feature, "Trilogy." On Broadway, he directed Paul Zindel's "Ladies at the Alamo."
        Mr. Perry's first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, Virginia, and two brothers.
      