
        James Truitte, a lead dancer with the companies of Lester Horton and Alvin Ailey and an authority on Horton's technique and choreography, was found dead on Monday at his home in Cincinnati. He was 72.
        A spokeswoman for the Cincinnati coroner's office said yesterday that the cause of death had not been established.
        Mr. Truitte had danced briefly before joining the Lester Horton Dancers in 1950. But it was in that company, one of the few in America that welcomed dancers who were black, that he developed into a charismatic performer who drew critical raves, both with that company and particularly on tour in Europe with Ailey in the 1960's.
        Tall, lean and elegant, Mr. Truitte projected an intensity and calm that were as powerfully affecting as his long, lithe body line, whether he was playing the murderous preacher in Horton's "Beloved," the desperate hotel dweller in the "Panic" solo in Anna Sokolow's "Rooms" or the yearning believer in the "I Want To Be Ready" solo in Ailey's "Revelations."
        Mr. Truitte approached dance and dancers with a sense of genial detachment that made him a clear-eyed, gifted teacher and exponent of the Horton technique, as well as a witty raconteur and a wry observer of American dance history.
        Mr. Truitte, who was born in Chicago, followed his mother's wish that he train as a doctor. But a year into his pre-medical studies at the University of California at Los Angeles, he succumbed to dance while working as a bartender at Club Alabam in the glittering black entertainment district on Central Avenue. Archie Savage, a noted Katherine Dunham dancer, was performing there and invited Mr. Truitte to study dance with him. In 1948, Mr. Truitte began to train with Horton. His other teachers included Janet Collins, Carmelita Maracci, Mary Anthony, Robert Joffrey and Luigi.
        He became a star with Horton, partnered another star, Carmen de Lavallade, choreographed several minor dances and had a solo created for him by an unknown Horton junior dancer named Alvin Ailey. In one of Ailey's first pieces, "According to St. Francis," Mr. Truitte was onstage for most of 37 minutes, dressed in a heavy costume and dancing everything Ailey had learned of the Horton vocabulary. Already rail-thin, he lost 10 pounds.
        Mr. Truitte came east in 1959 to study dance notation as the recipient of a John Hay Whitney fellowship. He joined the fledgling Ailey troupe in 1960, performing with Ailey through 1968 and serving for several years as associate artistic director of the company. He worked closely with Ailey in the creation of "I Want to Be Ready."
        Mr. Truitte was also known as a teacher when he left the Ailey company. He began to teach master classes at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music in 1970 and three years later was named associate professor. He returned to the stage occasionally in productions by the Cincinnati Ballet in the mid-1970's. In 1993 he was named professor emeritus.
        Mr. Truitte taught Horton technique throughout the nation and restaged Horton dances for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Dance Theater of Harlem, Cincinnati Ballet, Joyce Trisler Danscompany and the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, among others. He was a frequent artist in residence at the American Dance Festival and took part in many national conferences on black dance.
        His film career included performances as a dancer in "Carmen Jones" and "South Pacific."
        No immediate family members survive.
      