
        Dr. James Watt, a public health researcher and administrator who was the director of the National Heart Institute in the 1950's, died on Aug. 22 at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 84 and lived in Norfolk.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Dr. Myron E. Wegman, a friend and colleague who recently reported the death.
        Dr. Watt was born in Thomasville, Ga., and his career choice was strongly influenced by a summer resident of the town who offered to help pay for his education if he would study public health. After receiving a bachelor's degree from Davidson College in North Carolina in 1931, he attended Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where he received his M.D. degree in 1935, and the university's School of Public Health, which awarded him a doctorate in 1936.
        As a researcher with the Public Health Service early in his career, Dr. Watt investigated the causes and spread of major diarrheal diseases like salmonellosis and shigellosis, first at a research center of the National Institutes of Health in New Mexico and later in Puerto Rico and New Orleans. His studies helped lead to control measures that sharply reduced the incidence of these diseases, which were a major cause of death among children in the United States and other countries.
        Near the end of World War II, he was sent by the health service to investigate reports of a cholera outbreak in Chongqing, China. Finding little evidence of an epidemic, he made his way to Shanghai and Xiamen, and for a time was the senior American medical officer in the two cities in the chaotic period after the Japanese surrender.
        In 1948, under the auspices of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Watt established a diarrheal diseases research center at Louisiana State University. In 1952, he came to Washington to become director of the National Heart Institute, the forerunner of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. He served as director until 1961, when he was named chief assistant to the Surgeon General and counselor on international health affairs.
        In 1967, Dr. Watt became a special assistant to the Surgeon General, in charge of program review. He retired in 1968.
        Dr. Watt's wife, the former Margaret Gutelius, died in 1992. He is survived by two daughters, Dr. Frances Baker of Norfolk and Dr. Sara Smith of San Marino, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      