
        Orville Redenbacher, the agricultural visionary who all but single-handedly revolutionized the American popcorn industry, was found dead yesterday at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 88.
        Mr. Redenbacher was found in a bathtub with a whirlpool in his condominium, where he drowned after a heart attack, the medical examiner's office said.
        By his own account he was just "a funny looking farmer with a funny sounding name." But for all his bumpkin appearance, the man with the signature white wavy hair and oversized bow tie was a shrewd agricultural scientist who experimented with hybrids for years before he came up with the first significant genetic improvement in popcorn in more than 5,000 years.
        Until Mr. Redenbacher and his partner, Charlie Bowman, achieved their breakthrough in 1965, popcorn was essentially the same product the Iroquois Indians had introduced to the Pilgrims at the first Thanksgiving more than three centuries earlier. And for that matter, the Iroquois variety was virtually unchanged from popcorn archeologists have traced back 5,600 years.
        In contrast to garden-variety popcorn, whose kernels expand some 20 times their original size when popped, the Redenbacher-Bowman "snowflake" variety expanded as much as 40 times, producing a lighter, fluffier product.
        It was also far more expensive to produce. When industry officials scoffed at paying two and a half times as much for a product they insisted was a commodity, Mr. Redenbacher packed up his station wagon and started peddling the popcorn, then called Red Bow, store to store in his native Indiana.
        For all the initial success -- Mr. Redenbacher said he never failed to make a sale -- Red Bow popcorn might have remained a regional fluke if not for the advice of a Chicago marketing firm that Mr. Redenbacher hired.
        For a $13,000 fee, the specialists suggested he call the popcorn Orville Redenbacher's, the name, he never tired of pointing out, his mother had dreamed up free. The specialists also suggested that Mr. Redenbacher put his picture on the label.
        The premium-priced Orville Redenbacher's Gourmet Popping Corn was introduced by the Chicago department store, Marshall Field's, in 1970, and within five years was the leading national product, a somewhat dubious distinction since there had been no dominant American popcorn in a highly fragmented industry.
        In 1976, while Redenbacher's was still little more than a regional brand, Mr. Redenbacher and Mr. Bowman sold out to Hunt-Wesson, now a Conagra Inc. subsidiary, and Mr. Redenbacher began a career as a company spokesman, making hundreds of personal appearances a year and appearing in scores of television commercials.
        According to industry estimates, the brand, still the national leader in the $1 billion annual popcorn market, accounts for about 45 percent of the microwave market.
        A native of Brazil, Ind., Mr. Redenbacher grew up on his father's farm, sometimes selling homegrown popcorn from a roadside stand. It was while attending Purdue University that the college's hybrid experiments caught his attention and convinced him he could do better.
        After his graduation in 1928 he worked as a county agricultural agent and then managed a 12,000-acre farm before he teamed up with Mr. Bowman.
        Although popcorn's growing popularity has been attributed in large part to the developement of popcorn that can be microwaved, which accounts for 80 percent of annual sales, Mr. Redenbacher remained a popcorn purist.
        Until the end, a grandson said yesterday, he preferred the old-fashioned stove-top variety.
        Mr. Redenbacher had been a presence in advertising for the products bearing his name since they were introduced nationally; his face was also integral part of package logos. But in most recent advertising for newer products in the line, Mr. Redenbacher's presence had been played down.
        Mr. Redenbacher is survived by two daughters, Billie Ann Atwood of San Jose, Calif., and Gail Tuminello of Valparaiso, Ind.; 12 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      