
        Annie Kriegel, a French ex-Communist who was a historian and analyst of Communism, died on Aug. 26 in a Paris hospital. She was 68 and lived in Paris.
        She had cancer, said the French newspaper Le Figaro, which reported her death on Aug. 28.
        Professor Kriegel had retired from academic work after teaching at the University of Paris-Nanterre from 1969 into the 1990's.
        As a teen-ager, she was active in the Resistance against the Nazi occupation of her country. She became prominent in the postwar French Communist Party but resigned in 1957.
        Her 1972 book, "The French Communists," was hailed in The New York Times Book review by an American historian of France, Robert O. Paxton of Columbia University, as "the most probing single work on the French Communist Party, and perhaps on any Western Communist party." She wrote more than a dozen books, beginning in 1964.
        A British historian of France, Douglas Johnson, wrote in The Independent on Friday that Professor Kriegel was respected as an individual force among French intellectuals.
        Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
        "As the men were forcibly separated from the women and children, she heard screams which she said contained all the pain that life and death provide. She sat on a bench and wept. 'It was on that bench that I left my childhood,' she afterwards said."
        Then she escaped Paris and joined a Communist Resistance group. After the war she studied at the Ecole Normale Superieure de Sevres, held posts in teaching and related fields and wrote for Le Figaro.
        Annie Becker Kriegel was born in Paris. Her marriage to Guy Besse ended in divorce. She is survived by her husband of 40 years, Dr. Arthur Kriegel; and four children, Maurice, Danielle, Irene and Emmanuel.
      