
        Michael Ende, the German author whose children's book "The Neverending Story" became an international best seller and was made into a film, died on Monday at a clinic near Stuttgart. He was 65.
        The cause was stomach cancer, his publisher said.
        Like no other modern German writer of children's books, Mr. Ende's fiction inspired passion. Scholars called him the last German Romantic writer. Critics assailed him for encouraging a flight from reality. His works were translated into 40 languages, sold more than 20 million copies and made him a millionaire.
        His beginnings were far from auspicious. Drawn to the theater in the early 1950's, he failed to make a living as an actor and turned to writing freelance film criticism and film scenarios. He started his first children's book, "Jim Knopf and Lukas the Locomotive Engineer" (1960), as a diversion. At least 10 publishers turned it down before it was issued to instant acclaim, winning West Germany's Children's Book Award.
        His stories are widely viewed by admirers as mythic parables of the human condition and as metaphors for an escape from a heartless modern society to an inner world to which children hold the key.
        His 1973 novel "Momo" is the story of an orphaned girl who confronts evil, chain-smoking "time thieves," men who hoard hours stolen from others' lives.
        "The Neverending Story," published in 1979 (and in 1983 by Doubleday in the United States), is the tale of a boy whose perusal of a dusty book leads him on a journey through a magical fantasy world in which he discovers his own courage.
        "The only mainspring that drives my work is the desire for the free and undirected play of the imagination," Mr. Ende once said in an interview. At another point, he declared: "If people forget that they have an inner world, then they forget their own values. The inner world must be added to the exterior world, it must be created and discovered. And if we do not, now and then, make a journey through our inner life to discover these values, they will be lost."
        He was born on Nov. 12, 1929, in the Bavarian town of Garmisch Partenkirschen, the son of Edgar Ende, a Surrealist painter whose work was banned by the Nazis. He grew up in Munich, fearing, he said, that "if I ever devoted myself too much to one-plus-one-equals-two, then my imagination would go kaput." He was raised, he said, "in the bohemian world of painters, writers and sculptors."
        In the closing days of World War II, he was drafted into the German Army but threw away his rifle and deserted, by some accounts joining an anti-Nazi underground movement called the Bavarian Freedom Action.
        He completed his formal education at one of the Waldorf Schools founded by Rudolf Steiner, the German educator whose philosophy emphasized knowledge produced by the spiritual side of man.
        Mr. Ende studied drama in Munich in the early 1950's but was able to secure only small parts in provincial theater. It was during that period that he met his wife-to-be, the actress Ingeborg Hoffmann.
        With the publication in 1960 of "Jim Knopf and Lukas the Locomotive Engineer," his life abruptly changed. The book was so successful that it was translated into 20 languages. A sequel published in 1962, "Jim Knopf and the Wild 13," widened his following but also drew sharp criticism from radical leftists of the late 1960's, who accused him of encouraging escapism instead of political commitment.
        It was such criticism, according to some German experts on Mr. Ende's work, that drove him into exile. From 1970 to 1985 he lived south of Rome, where he wrote both "Momo" and "The Neverending Story."
        He was highly critical of the 1984 film based on "The Neverending Story" and of a 1990 sequel, dismissing them as "gigantic melodrama made of kitsch and commerce, plush and plastic."
        After the death of his wife in 1985, he returned to Munich and in 1989 married Marika Sato, who had translated his works into her native Japanese. His last book, a children's story called "Lirum Larum," is to be published in Germany this fall.
        He is survived by his wife.
      