
        Richard Sax, a chef and prolific cooking writer who taught millions of readers that elegant food could be prepared in ordinary kitchens using everyday ingredients, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 46 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his editor at Chapters Publishing, Rux Martin.
        Mr. Sax, the founding chef-director of Food & Wine Magazine's test kitchen and co-author of a monthly column on healthful cooking for Bon Appetit magazine, was author or co-author of eight major cookbooks. The work widely regarded as his masterpiece, "Classic Home Desserts" (Chapters Publishing, 1994), won numerous awards and praise for its sheer volume -- more than 350 recipes -- and the care and clarity of Mr. Sax's exposition.
        His other books included "From the Farmer's Market," "The Cookie Lover's Cookbook," "Cooking Great Meals Every Day" and "Old-Fashioned Desserts." He also wrote about the lives and recipes of other famous cooks in his book "New York's Master Chefs." But he made his name by reaching the home cook, and by drawing on and updating old American and English recipes that had the spirit of what he called "unadorned frankness."
        And in a world where techniques and tricks of the cooking trade are often treated like state secrets, Mr. Sax was also known for his generosity and willingness to share his skills and knowledge. And his down-to-earth style often served to make his subject even more accessible to minimally trained amateurs.
        "Certainly there is something contrived about these sorts of dishes," he wrote in an article for The New York Times Magazine in 1991 about how "street food" like pizza was being transmogrified into haute cuisine by local chefs using ingredients like wild mushrooms and lamb sausages. "But if the new version doesn't taste good on its own," he wrote, "what's the point?"
        As a teacher, conducting cooking classes in a SoHo loft, Mr. Sax was known for his breezy style and his constant exhortations that cooking was not about rigidly following recipes, but about the taste of the food itself -- something you could learn only by doing and by tasting as you went along.
        He was also involved with numerous food charity groups, including the Food and Hunger Hotline, and served as ethics chairman for the International Association of Culinary Professionals.
        Mr. Sax was born in Passaic, N.J., in 1949 and was a high school English teacher in Clark, N.J., before going on to study cooking in New York and at Le Cordon Bleu in Paris.
        Mr. Sax worked with apparently undiluted passion until very nearly the end of life, his doctors and friends said. Even in the last months of his illness, he continued to write, working on a manuscript for another cookbook. He finished and submitted from his hospital room a book review on Tuesday, and was working on one of his magazine columns on Wednesday, only two days before his death. His most recently published book, written with Marie Simmons, was "Lighter Quicker Better" (William Morrow), a guide to healthful cooking, was published this year.
        In addition to his regular column for Bon Appetit, he was also a regular contributor to many other magazines, including Gourmet, Food & Wine, Harper's Bazaar, Out, Family Circle and Yankee.
        He is survived by his mother, Fran Sax of Clifton, N.J., a brother, Ken, of Evanston, Ill., and a sister Diana Meadow of Oakland, Calif.
      