
        George T. Kalaris, the officer assigned in 1974 by the Central Intelligence Agency to clean up one of its worst internal messes, a seemingly endless hunt for a Soviet agent in its own ranks, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 73 and had been under treatment for cardiac and kidney problems.
        Until his appointment in 1974 as chief of the counterintelligence staff, running the innermost sanctum of the agency, Mr. Kalaris had spent most of his career as a clandestine operations officer in Greece, Indonesia, Laos, the Philippines and Brazil. He won special admiration, for his central role in acquiring a warhead and operational manuals for a Soviet SA-2 anti-aircraft missile in Indochina.
        Before Mr. Kalaris's appointment, a kind of paralysis had developed in the counterintelligence staff, which had been led from its outset by James J. Angleton, who had an obsession with finding a Soviet spy in the agency. The paralysis had spread to the Soviet-East European Division, where at least a dozen officers were under his suspicion.
        The newly installed head of the agency, William E. Colby, dealt with the problem by dismissing Mr. Angleton and replacing him on Dec. 31, 1974, with Mr. Kalaris.
        A formidable task, including 40 safes stuffed with his predecessor's most secret files, confronted Mr. Kalaris. Daunting, too, was Mr. Angleton's parting threat that he would be "crushed." The new chief soon found that the unsuccessful hunt had not only ruined the careers of agency officials, but had also unjustly blackened the names of a genuine Soviet defector, Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko, a Canadian counterespionage officer and a Norwegian embassy secretary. Mr. Kalaris persuaded the agency to clear their reputations and make some restitution.
        After two years of leading the counterintelligence staff, Mr. Kalaris was named chief of the Soviet-East Europe Division, where he continued to try to clean up damage from the spy hunt. He was named special assistant to the new director of central intelligence, Stansfield Turner, in 1979 and the next year was credited with ending decades of hostility between the agency and the F.B.I. with the creation of a joint operation to turn Soviet agents into defectors. He retired that year.
        George Thomas Kalaris was born May 4, 1922, in Billings, Mont. In 1933 his mother took him to Greece, where he remained under false papers through the Nazi occupation. His first contact with his native country was a draft notice and on return he served in the Army for two years, then completed law school at the University of Montana. He worked briefly for the National Labor Relations Board before joining the C.I.A. in 1952.
        Survivors include his wife, Ismene; two sons, Thomas of Summit, N.J., and Timothy of Dunkirk, Md.; a daughter, Stacy Kalaris, of Philadelphia; two brothers, Gregory of Billings and Angelo of Great Falls, Va., and five grandchildren.
      