
        Donald Davie, a poet, professor and literary critic who was a major influence on British poetry in the 1950's, died on Monday in Exeter, England. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said Michael Schmidt, Mr. Davie's editor at Carcanet, a publishing house in Manchester.
        Mr. Davie was the author of 18 books of literary criticism and scores of poems, articles and book reviews. He was perhaps best known for two books about the moral dimensions of poetic style -- "Purity of Diction in English Verse" (1952) and "Articulate Energy" (1957) -- and for "Ezra Pound: Poet as Sculptor" (1965), which compared Pound's use of language to a sculptor's use of stone. His book "Under Briggflats: A History of Poetry in Great Britain, 1960-1988," was also considered a definitive work.
        But as prolific as he was with his prose, Mr. Davie regarded himself primarily as a poet, and in the 1950's became associated with the writers Philip Larkin and Kingsley Amis in the so-called Movement in poetry in postwar Britain. "I write my criticism," Mr. Davie once wrote, "in order to explain to myself the sort of thing I've been doing."
        Mr. Davie, occasionally polemical and always a stickler for language, produced countless poems, adhering to a strict code of poetic style and personal behavior. "There is no necessary connection between the poetic vocations on the one hand," he wrote, making a distinction between the attitudes of his generation and those of the poets who preceded them, "and on the other, exhibitionism, egoism and license." His best-known poetry collections were "Essex Poems" (1969), "In the Stopping Train" (1977) and "To Scorch or Freeze" (1988).
        Mr. Davie eventually became disillusioned with the work of Larkin, and once wrote that the more famous poets who made up the Movement had been renowned not just for their talents, but also because "they fed our national wish to be a tight little island unto ourselves." But he never stopped writing poetry himself; Mr. Davie sent in his latest work just two months ago, Mr. Schmidt said. "He will be remembered as a man who stood up for poetry at a time when it needed defending," Karl Miller, the former editor of the London Review of Books, told The Daily Telegraph this week.
        Donald Alfred Davie was born in Yorkshire in 1922, the son of a schoolmistress and a shopkeeper. In 1941, he enlisted in the Royal Navy, traveling to the Soviet Union and beginning a lifelong interest in the Russian language and Russian poetry. (In his Who's Who entry, he listed "verse translation" as one of his recreations, and in fact translated the works of Pasternak and wrote widely on Slavic and Polish literature.)
        Mr. Davie studied English on a scholarship to Cambridge, where his academic success as "an athlete of the examination halls," as he later described it, led to academic appointments at such institutions as Cambridge and Trinity College, Dublin. Mr. Davie helped set up the University of Essex, but alarmed by the student unrest of the late 1960's, moved to the United States and took a job at Stanford University. In 1978, he was named the Andrew W. Mellon Professor of Humanities at Vanderbilt University, a post he held for a decade.
        After he retired from teaching, Mr. Davie returned to England and spent the rest of his life in Exeter.
        He is survived by his wife, Doreen, two sons and a daughter.
      