
        Sir Rudolph Peierls, the physicist whose surprising calculations at the University of Birmingham in England in 1940 helped paved the way for the atomic bomb five years later, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Oxford, England. He was 88 and had been under treatment for kidney problems.
        When he lay on a hill in southern New Mexico on June 16, 1945, and looked through a darkened glass as the first atomic bomb turned night into day, Rudolph Ernst Peierls was as awed as anyone.
        "We had known what to expect," he said later, "but no amount of imagination could have given us a taste of the real thing."
        Had it not been for Rudolph Peierls and his friend and fellow scientist, Otto Frisch, there probably would not have been a real thing as early as 1945.
        For until they wrote a three-page memorandum in Sir Rudolph's office on the ground floor of the Birmingham physics lab on March 19, 1940 -- "a fine day and the window was open" -- Sir Rudolph later recalled, the prospect that uranium atoms could be split apart to create an enormous explosion had been little more than a theory.
        For although scientists had concluded years earlier that such an explosion would occur if enough uranium were assembled to form what they called a critical mass, they had also concluded that it would take no less than 13 tons, far more of the scarce element than could feasibly be isolated and far more than a single plane could deliver to a target if it could be.
        As the Peierls-Frisch memo to the British military authorities revealed, calculations based on an innovative formula Sir Rudolph had developed a year earlier demonstrated conclusively that it would take an amount of the uranium-235 isotope no bigger than a golf ball to form a critical mass and create an explosion that would destroy a city.
        Within three months, the race to build an atomic bomb was on, with the United States taking the lead and a British delegation with Sir Rudolph providing support at Los Alamos.
        For Sir Rudolph, a native of Berlin who had done acclaimed work in the emerging science of quantum mechanics long before he settled in England, his role in the development of the atomic bomb upstaged a long and distinguished career.
        He studied at the universities of Berlin, Munich and Leipzig. After he came to England on a fellowship in 1933, he decided to stay because of the rise of Hitler. In 1937 he established the department of mathematical physics at Birmingham.
        Sir Rudolph returned to Birmingham after the war, shifted to Oxford in 1963 and then taught for three years at the University of Washington after his retirement in 1974, won further acclaim as a teacher of a generation of physicists.
        For all the significance of his work, Sir Rudolf's achievements were shot through with irony.
        For example, Sir Rudolph, who didn't become a naturalized British citizen until 1940, turned to the comparatively innocent field of atomic physics only because as an enemy alien during the 1930's, he was barred from taking part in the top secret military research into radar.
        And when his own work helped create such a need for top scientists that the Government cleared other enemy aliens for his now highly sensitive project, one of his first recruits was Klaus Fuchs, the man who later gave atomic secrets to the Soviet Union.
        According to his son, Ronald, a computational mathematician at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, Sir Rudolph had developed a close personal relationship with Fuchs, and was prepared to understand his political treachery but could neither comprehend nor forgive the personal betrayal.
        Because of that association with Fuchs, Sir Rudolph was long suspected by the United States, which sometimes witheld visas he needed to attend international conferences.
        Sir Rudolph, a highly disciplined but gregarious man who was fond of puns, wrote several books, including "The Laws of Nature" (1955), "Surprises in Theoretical Physics" (1979), his autobiography, "Bird of Passage" (1985), and "More Surprises in Theoretical Physics" (1991).
        Although he became a leader of a scientific arms control movement, Sir Rudolph always defended the use of the atomic bomb against Japan even though in their memo to British authorities, he and Frisch, who died in 1979, suggested that because a "superbomb" would probably kill large numbers of civilians, it might be "unsuitable as a weapon for use by this country."
        In addition to his son, he is survived by three daughters, Joanna Hookway of Sheffield, England, Gaby Gross of Dorchester, Mass., and Catherine Coppin of Vancouver, British Columbia, and seven grandchildren.
      