
        Lester Lum Colbert, a retired president and chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, died Friday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 90.
        Mr. Colbert, whose nickname was Tex, succeeded K. T. Keller as president of Chrysler in 1950. He later added the title of chairman of the auto maker. He resigned as head of the parent company in 1961, after which he was chairman of a subsidiary, the Chrysler Corporation of Canada Ltd., until 1965, when he retired.
        As a fledgling lawyer in the New York firm of Larkin, Rathbone & Perry, Mr. Colbert impressed a client, Walter P. Chrysler, who was the head of the automobile company. Mr. Chrysler sent Mr. Colbert to Detroit in 1933, where he joined Mr. Keller's executive staff and worked on labor issues for 10 years, including negotiations with Walter Reuther, president of the United Automobile Workers union.
        Early in World War II, Mr. Keller asked Mr. Colbert to attend night classes and study manufacturing fundamentals, including machine operations and reading blueprints. In 1943, Mr. Colbert was appointed general manager of Chrysler's big Dodge division factory in Chicago, which was making engines for B-29 bombers. After the war, he was promoted to head of the Dodge division.
        Mr. Colbert, who had been commended by General H. H. Arnold for his wartime production achievements, headed Chrysler in prosperous times in the first postwar years. When he resigned in 1961, the company had encountered difficulties that included losses during a recession, strikes at suppliers, stockholder lawsuits and abrupt changes in senior management. He was succeeded by Lynn A. Townsend.
        Dissident stockholders accused a number of Chrysler executives of profiting improperly from holdings in companies that made automobile parts for Chrysler. William C. Newberg, who was a partner in a supplier company, was forced out as president of Chrysler and required to pay $455,000 to the company. Mr. Newberg later filed a $5 million lawsuit against Mr. Colbert, the company and other Chrysler officers, contending that he had been unfairly removed. The company paid Mr. Newberg $85,000 in a settlement in 1970.
        Mr. Colbert confirmed in 1961 that his wife at the time, Daisy Gorman Colbert, had formerly owned several hundred shares in a Chrysler supplier, but he noted that he had been cleared of improper behavior by a New York law firm that investigated the shareholders' complaints.
        Born in Oakwood, Tex., a small farming town, in 1905, Mr. Colbert helped his father buy and sell cotton, starting as a teen-ager. He attended the University of Texas and Harvard Law School, from which he received a J.D. degree in 1929.
        After his wife died in 1970, he moved to Naples and invested in oil and gas ventures, his son Nicholas said. He was an ardent fund-raiser for the University of Texas for 30 years, including a term as head of the school's development board.
        In addition to his son Nicholas, of Houston, his survivors include his wife, Robert Ellen Hoke Colbert of Naples, whom he married in 1972; another son, Lester L. Colbert Jr. of New York, and a daughter, Sarah Colbert Noble of Battle Creek, Mich.
      