
        The Rev. Jerome Theisen, Abbot Primate of the world's 30,000 Benedictine monks and nuns, died Sunday night at a hospital in Rome. He was 64.
        Abbot Theisen, the second American to lead the Benedictine order in its nearly 1,500-year history, died of a heart attack, said his secretary, Jacques Cotes.
        In his three years as Abbot Primate, Father Theisen placed special emphasis on the role of the order's nearly 20,000 nuns who, like the 9,500 Benedictine priests and brothers, live a life of poverty and service in nearly 400 monasteries around the world. Two years ago, Father Theisen called what was certainly the only convocation of women leaders of the order in modern history and perhaps the only meeting of its kind since St. Benedict founded the order in the sixth century.
        The order is renowned for its role in preserving great libraries of classical literature and musical texts during the Middle Ages, promoting scientific inquiry and bringing vast tracts of European land under cultivation.
        Father Theisen was elected to a six-year term as Abbot Primate at an assembly of abbots in Rome in September 1992. Before that, he had been abbot of St. John's Abbey in Collegeville, Minn., for 13 years, and chancellor of St. John's University, which is sponsored by the order and shares the grounds of the 2,500-acre monastery.
        The Benedictines form a loose confederation of largely independent monasteries, and in that regard the Abbot Primate serves not so much as a doctrinaire leader but as the order's representative to the Vatican, as a promoter of communication and as its chief educator and developer.
        The other American to lead the order, from 1967 to 1977, is Rembert G. Weakland, now the Archbishop of Milwaukee. "He was a very thoughtful and good abbot," Archbishop Weakland said of Father Theisen, "and a good theologian." Archbishop Weakland said Father Theisen "took as his main concern the rejuvenation of Collegio San Anselmo in Rome" -- the center for theological and liturgical studies for Benedictines from around the world.
        Father Theisen was a native of Loyal, Wis. He entered St. John's Abbey in 1952 and was ordained in 1957. He earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy from St. John's University in 1954 and a doctorate in theology from Collegio San Anselm in 1966.
        The president of St. John's University, Brother Dietrich Reinhart, said that during his tenure as abbot at St. John's, Father Theisen stressed ecumenism. Brother Reinhart cited Father Theisen's collaboration with the Episcopal Bishop of Minnesota, Robert M. Anderson, to create a retreat at St. John's for the Episocal Diocese. "This is one of those four-century-old rifts being addressed," Brother Reinhart said.
        In 1991, Father Theisen was a leader in the successful effort to create the Interfaith Sexual Trauma Institute, which brings together social workers, clinicans and religious leaders to address the problem of clerical sexual abuse.
        At the convocation that he sponsored in September 1992, leaders communities of Benedictine nuns from around the world gathered in Rome to discuss the meaning of their vows. In his report on the meeting, Father Theisen wrote that there had been a good representation of sisters from third-world countries, said the Rev. Daniel Durkin, a spokesman for St. John's Abbey, "and he said that the convocation was recognition that the women make as much a contribution as the men."
      