
        Robert W. Meserve, a former president of the American Bar Association who championed stronger ethics rules for lawyers, died Thursday at New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 86.
        As president of the bar association from 1972 to 1973, during the height of Watergate, Mr. Meserve was deeply troubled by the parade of Government lawyers into Federal prisons and by what he saw as a lack of public outrage against the manipulations of the legal system during Watergate.
        After leaving the presidency, he served as chairman of an A.B.A. commission on the evaluation of professional standards, which pushed in the early 1980's for lawyers to recognize that their duty to maintain confidentiality is sometimes transcended by an obligation to prevent criminal actions by their clients.
        Ultimately, the commission was forced to throw out some of its boldest proposals and water down others before the association adopted rules that said lawyers should resign from a case, but must also remain silent, if they knew their clients in the case were committing a fraud or other property crime.
        Mr. Meserve warned that the rules could make lawyers "an accessory to fraud" and require them to lie for their clients.
        The son of a motorman on the old Boston Elevated Railroad Company, Mr. Meserve (pronounced like reserve) was born in Chelsea, Mass. He attended Tufts University and Harvard Law School, and worked both in private practice and as an assistant United States attorney, trying many antitrust cases from the motion picture industry. He also served as president of the American College of Trial Lawyers from 1968 to 1969.
        In 1987, Mr. Meserve joined another former bar association president, Chesterfield Smith, in urging the Senate Judiciary Committee to reject the nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court. Mr. Meserve strongly disagreed with what he called Judge Bork's view that "we should disregard two centuries of American history" in interpreting the Constitution.
        Mr. Meserve is survived by two daughters, Roberta M. Weil of Harpswell, Me., and Jeanne M. Meserve of Washington; three sons, William G., of Winchester, Mass., Richard A., of Falls Church, Va., and John E., of Topsfield, Mass., and 12 grandchildren. His wife of 57 years, the former Gladys Swenson, died in January 1994.
      