
        Anyone attending the inauguration this weekend of Ruth Simmons as Smith College's ninth president will be likely to note the presence of such luminaries as Toni Morrison, the Nobel Prize-winning author; Johnnetta Cole, the president of Spelman College; Cornel West, the scholar, and Henry Louis Gates, the writer and chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard.
        But they might miss the people who Ruth Simmons believes are the most important -- those responsible for her becoming the first black president of one of the country's most elite women's colleges. They are her nine brothers and sisters: Elbert, Wilford, Atherine, Albert, Arnold, Nora, Clarence, Ozella and Azella. Her eighth-grade teacher, Modria Caraway. Her high school drama teacher, Vernell Lillie.
        Her kindergarten teacher, Ida Mae Henderson, would like to be there, but at age 85, she is not strong enough to make the trip alone from Grapeland, Tex. "Miss Ida Mae," Dr. Simmons said. "I revere her."
        Dr. Simmons, who is 50, is the great-great-granddaughter of slaves. She began her journey on a cotton farm in Grapeland, in East Texas. Her parents, the late Isaac and Fannie Stubblefield, were sharecroppers. Dr. Simmons was the youngest of 12 children -- two brothers are dead -- and was 7 when the family moved to a poor section of Houston. Her father went to work in a factory and eventually became pastor of the Mount Hermon Missionary Baptist Church. Her mother scrubbed floors for white families.
        To Henry Louis Gates, the appointment of a black woman to the top job at Smith is "a major event in the history of American letters." Professor Gates, who regards Dr. Simmons as a mentor, said, "She's the Jackie Robinson of college presidents."
        Ask Ruth Simmons how she did it, how she made her way from Grapeland to the provost's job at Spelman College to vice provost at Princeton University to the presidency of Smith, and she seems startled by the question. "I didn't make it happen," she said in an interview the other day in her wood-paneled office at Smith. "That's just the point."
        It was her teachers at the segregated schools she attended, W. R. Banks Elementary in Grapeland and Phyllis Wheatley High in Houston, who made it happen, she said. "They thought I belonged in college," she said. "And they were convinced they would get me there. They protected me, especially after my mother died."
        She was 15 when her mother lost her battle with kidney disease. "I had a remarkable mother," said Dr. Simmons, who is 50. "When she would do day's work, she would sometimes take me with her to white people's houses when I was a little girl. The thing I remember vividly is how good she was at what she did. She was very demanding in terms of her own work -- Do it well, do it thoroughly, whatever you do."
        After graduation from high school, she went to Dillard University, a historically black institution in New Orleans, where she majored in Romance languages.
        "Vernell Lillie wrote to Dillard, which is where she had gone, and asked them to provide a scholarship for me," Dr. Simmons said.
        Ms. Lillie, a professor of African studies at the University of Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview: "She was brilliant. I was very fortunate to be a part of her life."
        The scholarship did not cover everything. "I didn't have enough money to buy clothes," said Dr. Simmons, who was elegantly dressed the other morning in a long, dark-green pleated skirt and matching jacket, with a double strand of pearls and small gold hoop earrings. "And I'll never forget one of my teachers asked me to come over to her house, and she went to her closet and she took enough clothes out for me to go to college."
        Her family pitched in, too. "My brothers and sisters would send me what they could," she said. "They were all starting families. Sometimes it would be $5, or $10."
        Her brother Wilford Stubblefield, who is 16 years older, was working at an oil refinery in Houston as a janitor, the only job open to a black man at the refinery in those days.
        "We all helped her -- probably not as much as we should have," Wilford said in a recent telephone interview from his home in Houston. "She was the second one that had gone off to college. Naturally, we were proud."
        Another brother, Clarence Stubblefield, who is 54 and a high school basketball coach in Houston, had gone to Prairie View College in Texas on a basketball scholarship.
        Dr. Simmons said: "I'm not the brightest person in my family. I was very lucky. I came along at the right time."
        Growing up in the segregated South, she said, she had no specific ambition, only a hunger to learn. "One really didn't aspire to do professional things," she said. "I think my mother must have thought that eventually perhaps I would get enough education to be self-sustaining and to do something comfortable, perhaps housework."
        Instead, she earned an undergraduate degree from Dillard, and master's and doctorate degrees in Romance languages at Harvard. She became an assistant professor of French, and later an assistant dean at the University of New Orleans.
        In the meantime, at age 22, she married Norbert Simmons, a lawyer and businessman. They had a son, Khari, now 22 and a student at Morehouse College in Atlanta, and a daughter, Maya, 18, who plans to attend Spelman next year.
        After the couple separated in the mid-1980's -- they were divorced in 1989 -- Dr. Simmons began her administrative rise at Princeton. She brought Ms. Morrison and Professor West to the Princeton faculty. She tried to persuade Professor Gates to join the faculty, too, he said.
        There was one problem with Ms. Morrison's appointment: the faculty search committee wanted a resume. And Ms. Morrison, offended by the request, refused to submit one.
        So Ruth Simmons wrote Toni Morrison's resume for her. "Here's my philosophy about life," said Dr. Simmons, who considers Ms. Morrison her best friend. "Don't dwell on insignificant things."
        Ms. Morrison said in a telephone interview: "She's still a bit of a miracle as far as I'm concerned. She has an unusual combination of real politics and integrity, and this very keen sense of morals which does not interfere with her generosity and her wide spiritedness. She's extremely creative in terms of solving other people's problems. And she's a lot of fun."
        For the 14-member presidential search committee at Smith, Dr. Simmons was the unanimous first choice. "We had a wish list of the qualities we wanted," said one member of the committee, Peter Rose, a sociology professor. "She seemed to fill them all. Race was not an issue."
        Of Smith's 2,800 students, 86 are black. There are 15 black faculty members -- out of 300.
        One goals, Dr. Simmons said, is to interest more black women in Smith. She hopes her presence will help. "If it's not a good place for African-American students," she said, "it's not a good place for me."
        Her friend, Professor Gates, said he was already planning ahead. "I'm hoping Maggie and Liza Gates will go to Smith now," he said, referring to his teen-age daughters. "It never would have occurred to me before Ruth became president."
        For now, her presence has electrified the campus. She walks everywhere. She invites students into her office to talk. She listens to them, they say.
        Tigress Osborne, a black senior, said she returned to Smith last spring after taking some time off. "One of my friends said, 'You won't believe what's happened: we have a black president!' " Ms. Osborne said. "There's a moment when you think if Smith picked a black woman, how black is she? Is she going to be interested in us?"
        She added, "But there's a real sense of her blackness. She also has a good handle on how to be not just the black president, on how not to cater to just black students."
        Watching Dr. Simmons mingle at the senior tea last week, one senior, Kathryn Fields, who is white, said: "She's so cool. She's so young. She's new, she's exciting, she's going to make this school amazing."
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
        "I know the board of trustees thinks I'm trying to live up to the standards they set for me, and that's O.K.," she said. But she is aiming toward the higher standard set for her by Fannie Stubblefield, who never had the chance to go beyond the seventh grade. "Every day that I'm here," Dr. Simmons said, "I try to be worthy of the kind of person my mother wanted me to be."
      