
        Dorothy Dickson, an American-born musical comedy performer who captivated British audiences in the 1920's and 30's and became a member of the country's theatrical and social elite, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 102.
        Until her friend Michael Thornton, the British biographer, tracked down her birth certificate, it had been assumed that Miss Dickson was born on July 20, 1900, the date given in a standard reference work.
        But that would have made her a mere 14 in 1914, when as a Chicago debutante she scandalized North Shore society by dropping out of Madame Young's finishing school to form a dance team with Carl Hyson, a wealthy young man who later became her husband.
        Before the season was over the pair claimed a long-distance tango record by dancing the equivalent of 22,000 miles at clubs in Chicago, Milwaukee and New York.
        A 1900 birth date would also have meant that Miss Dickson was only 16 on Feb. 20, 1917, when she opened as a featured dancer in "Oh Boy!," a Jerome Kern hit that ran for 463 performances at the Princess Theater in New York.
        Although she became a Ziegfeld girl and appeared in other Broadway shows, including Kern's "Rock-a-Bye Baby" in 1918, it was not until she got to England in 1921 as the lead in the London company of "Sally" that she became a star. Playing the part made famous by Marilyn Miller in New York a year earlier, Miss Dickson introduced the Kern standard "Look for the Silver Lining" to British audiences, and was a darling of the West End from then on.
        She and the show were so successful that Kern and P. G. Wodehouse wrote another one especially for her. "The Cabaret Girl" ran for 361 performances at the Wintergarden Theater there.
        It was during the "Cabaret Girl" run that Miss Dickson made one of her most important British conquests, a lasting friendship with Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, who was so enchanted with Miss Dickson that she took her fiance to a performance. The fiance, then the Duke of York, eventually became King George VI. The former Lady Elizabeth is the Queen Mother of Britain.
        At a birthday lunch Miss Dickson gave at her home in 1980, the Queen Mother demonstrated her own musical-comedy talents by singing a "Cabaret Girl" tune, "Dancing Time." She sent roses for Miss Dickson's 100th-birthday celebration two years ago.
        Miss Dickson appeared in many other London productions, including a 1925 revival of "Peter Pan." She also became friends with Noel Coward and other theater luminaries. When she filed for divorce from Mr. Hyson in 1935, it was reported that Miss Dickson was expected to marry a British peer. In fact she never remarried.
        Although her career had faded considerably by the 1940's, Miss Dickson re-emerged as a founder of the London Stage Door Canteen, which entertained thousands of Allied troops during World War II.
        Her last theater roles were in "Red Letter Day" and "As Long as They Are Happy," in 1953, and she made her last stage appearance in 1980 during a 75th-anniversary celebration of "Peter Pan."
        A dedicated Christian Scientist who made daily walks from her Eaton Square apartment to a reading room until she was well into her 90's, Miss Dickson remained a familiar and sprightly figure in London.
        In addition to Miss Quayle, she is survived by her daughter, Lady Quayle, the widow of the actor Anthony Quayle; two other grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 29, 1995, Friday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Wednesday about Dorothy Dickson, a former musical comedy star, referred incompletely to one survivor. She is the actress Jenny Quayle, a granddaughter.
      