
        David Dodds Henry, a onetime English professor who served as president of the University of Illinois during a period of significant expansion in the 1950's and the era of campus unrest in the 1960's, died on Monday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. He was 89.
        If there were times when Dr. Henry regretted his decision to abandon the contemplative field of literature for the politically charged world of college administration, he had only his talents for leadership and his vision for public education to blame.
        From the time he was elected president of the student government at Pennsylvania State University in the 1920's, Dr. Henry, a quiet, forceful man who could energize a board meeting with cool, detached efficiency, was in demand.
        A native of East McKeesport, Pa., Dr. Henry was, in succession, an instructor in a land grant college (Penn State), a teacher and department head at a small liberal arts college (Battle Creek), a state education administrator (Michigan), president of a large municipal university (Wayne State in Detroit), executive vice president and chief educational officer at the nation's largest independent university (New York University) and, from 1955 to 1971, president of one of the largest state university systems (Illinois).
        It was a measure of the confidence he instilled in his fellow administrators that he was chosen to head six of the nation's leading organizations of higher education, including a stint as president of the Association of American Universities.
        As a public education administrator during politically perilous times, Dr. Henry was frequently on the firing line, once because he unilaterally suspended a professor who had created a furor by publicly condoning premarital sex for mature students, and later because he deferred to a faculty committee and did not suspend a professor who had created a similar furor by saying the assassination of President John F. Kennedy had been a Communist plot.
        As a champion of universal public education for every qualified high school graduate, Dr. Henry sometimes bit off more than he could chew. In 1968, for example, he recruited more black students for a special program than the university could accommodate, touching off a violent protest that included the slashing of his own presidential portrait.
        Dr. Henry, who did not apologize for taking a hard line against violence by students demonstrating for civil rights or protesting the Vietnam War, regarded it as a tribute that he was once burned in effigy by student protesters.
        For all that, Dr. Henry was credited with doubling the enrollment at Illinois and supervising a vast building program that included the creation of the Circle campus in Chicago, while simultaneously improving the university's academic standing significantly.
        Dr. Henry, who was predeceased by his wife, a son and a grandson, is survived by two grandsons and five great-grandchildren.
      