
        Dick Steinberg, general manager of the New York Jets the last six seasons and a respected talent scout who helped build the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots into Super Bowl teams, died yesterday. He was 60.
        The cause of death was stomach cancer, the Jets announced.
        Although the Jets fared poorly with a 33-51 record and one playoff appearance during his term as general manager, Steinberg was praised around the National Football League for his skills at drafting collegiate players, his knowledge of the game, his indefatigable work habits and his self-effacing nature.
        Steinberg, who began coughing seriously before last Christmas, submitted himself for X-rays, thinking he may have had pneumonia. But test results showed that he had what the Jets described as a treatable form of stomach cancer. Dick Haley, the Jets' player personnel director, assumed the duties of general manager when Steinberg began undergoing chemotherapy.
        Despite the treatments, he remained involved with the team, sitting in on meetings and voicing his opinions. Steinberg continued to visit the team offices and daily practices until about two weeks ago, when he became too weak to attend.
        Bobby Beathard, general manager of the San Diego Chargers, recalled Steinberg's tireless work habits during their days of traveling from college to college, scouting players with N.F.L. talent.
        "No matter how early I got up, he'd always get there first," Beathard said. "He'd bring a big box of doughnuts for the coaches and the secretaries. When I got to the school and saw the doughnuts, I thought, 'Darn, Dick's here already.' "
        One of Steinberg's closest friends and rivals, General Manager George Young of the New York Giants, remembered the Jets' general manager as being "detailed and industrious" as an evaluator of collegiate football talent.
        "He'd go to all the schools and talk to all the coaches, all the trainers; he did everything," Young said. "He always did. He never changed. He never behaved any different. Whether he was at the bottom of the totem pole or at the top, he never changed."
        In Steinberg's tenure with the Jets, the team made one playoff appearance -- in 1991, after finishing 8-8 -- and one noteworthy trade, acquiring quarterback Boomer Esiason in 1993. But the frustrations outweighed the successes.
        The man Steinberg hired as head coach in 1994, Pete Carroll, was dismissed after last season by the owner, Leon Hess, and replaced by Rich Kotite with no apparent input by Steinberg. Running back Blair Thomas, an all-American from Penn State, never met expectations as a first-round draft pick, and the jury is still out on other high picks like Johnny Mitchell, Marvin Jones and Aaron Glenn.
        Among the players Steinberg signed as free agents, Ronnie Lott, Leonard Marshall and Art Monk are gone. Only 14 of his draft choices since 1990 are still with the team, seven of them as starters.
        With the Rams and Patriots, however, Steinberg built teams that reached the Super Bowl, even if neither won it. In the 1977 draft -- his first as director of scouting for the Rams -- Steinberg drafted Bob Brudzinski, Nolan Cromwell, Wendell Tyler and Vince Ferragamo, all stars on the team that reached the 1980 Super Bowl. During nine seasons as director of player personnel with New England, which went to the 1986 Super Bowl, he acquired Pro Bowl players like Andre Tippet, Brian Holloway, Tony Collins, Irving Fryar and Fred Marion.
        A native of Philadelphia, Steinberg played football and majored in health and physical education at Temple University. He was a coach at Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia and Staunton Military Academy in Virginia before becoming an assistant at Vanderbilt (1964-66), Kansas State (1967-69) and Southern Mississippi (1970-71).
        Steinberg first joined the Patriots as a scout in 1972. He also worked briefly in the Dallas and New Orleans organizations.
        He is survived by his wife, Jo; a brother, Stanford, of Philadelphia, and four nieces.
      