
        Grady Sutton, one of W. C. Fields's favorite foils as a character actor in "The Bank Dick" and other films, died on Sept. 17 at the Motion Picture and Television Country Home and Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Sutton was one of those supporting players whose face was familiar but whose name was often forgotten. Although his roles were brief and he was seldom mentioned in reviews, he had his ardent admirers, beginning with Fields. He appeared in more than 180 movies, also clowning on screen with Harold Lloyd, Laurel and Hardy, Katharine Hepburn and Carole Lombard, among others.
        Using his portliness and his Southern drawl to comic effect, he usually played a naive country boy. He was known as a scene stealer, something he often did simply by rolling his eyes. He first met Fields in 1933 when they were shooting the Mack Sennett short "The Pharmacist." After that, Mr. Grady said, Fields always insisted that he be in his movies. When the producers told Fields he had to use another actor in "The Bank Dick," he said, "Then get yourself another Fields."
        In "The Bank Dick" (1940), Mr. Sutton played Og Oggilby, Fields's prospective son-in-law. He played Claude Nesselrode in "The Man on the Flying Trapeze" and Chester in "You Can't Cheat an Honest Man."
        Mr. Sutton was born in Chattanooga, Tenn. He appeared in his first film, "The Mad Whirl," in 1925 and went on to a series of college boy roles in such films as "The Freshman" and "The Sophomore." He remained in movie college through the 1930's ("College Humor," "The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi," "Pigskin Parade"), working at the same time with Fields and with Ms. Hepburn (in "Alice Adams" and "Stage Door").
        In "Alice Adams," his part called for him to step on the star's feet, something he did with reluctance because he weighed 250 pounds. Later, Ms. Hepburn sent him a note: "Dearest Grady, you can dance with me anytime."
        His career continued into the 1960's with "Jumbo" and "My Fair Lady" and with "The Odd Couple" and "The Pruitts of Southampton" television series.
      