
        Roger W. Heyns, the former Chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley during some of the most turbulent days of student protest in the 1960's, died Monday in Volos, Greece, while on a three-week tour that began in the Middle East. He was 77 and lived in Atherton, Calif.
        The probable cause was a heart attack, said a statement released yesterday by the university.
        Dr. Heyns, who had been chancellor at Berkeley from 1965 to 1971, retired two years ago as president of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, a large charitable organization based in Menlo Park, Calif.
        During his tenure at Berkeley, though facing conflicting pressures from student demonstrators and the Governor of California at the time, Ronald Reagan, Dr. Heyns was considered a moderating influence.
        Three years before Dr. Heyns arrived at Berkeley, the campus had spawned the Free Speech Movement, precursor of the more strident and sometimes violent political action that roiled college campuses around the country. In May 1968, Dr. Heyns had to call in the police to remove a group of students, faculty members and street people who had occupied a vacant lot that the university had planned to use for student housing. In the ensuing clash, 70 demonstrators were injured as rocks were thrown and the police used tear gas and birdshot-loaded riot guns.
        Born in Iowa in 1918, Dr. Heyns grew up in Holland, Mich. He attended Calvin College, graduating with a degree in psychology in 1940. That year, he entered the University of Michigan and earned a master's degree in psychology before joining the Army Air Corps in 1942 and advancing to the rank of captain in the division of psychological services.
        After World War II, he returned to the University of Michigan and earned his doctorate in 1949. Dr. Heyns then joined the Michigan faculty, specializing in the study of group dynamics, social conformity and motivation. He later served as vice president for academic affairs at Michigan. In 1965, the regents of the University of California unanimously elected Dr. Heyns to serve as chancellor a Berkeley.
        Upon taking office at Berkeley, Dr. Heyns moved into University House, the on-campus residence for chancellors that had been unoccupied for a number of years. Earl F. Cheit, the vice chancellor at the time, said Dr. Heyns had moved into the residence because he thought he "ought to be in the center of things." Finding the house locked on his arrival, Dr. Heyns simply climbed in through a window, Mr. Cheit said.
        Dr. Heyns once described the university as a "community of learning."
        "What brings us all together ought to be conducive to both the Nobel laureate and the incoming freshman," he wrote.
        During his tenure as chancellor, Dr. Heyns strongly promoted inclusion of minority students on campus.
        Dr. Heyns is survived by his wife, Esther; three sons, Michael of Sioux City, Iowa, John of Holland, Mich., and Daniel of Jackson, Mich.; a sister, Jacqueline Rudeen of Olympia, Wash., and seven grandchildren.
      