
        Jamie L. Whitten, a son of the Old South who made a smooth transition to the New South as a Democratic Congressman from Mississippi for 53 years -- the record for the longest service in the House of Representatives -- died Saturday in Oxford, Miss. Mr. Whitten, who was chairman of the powerful Appropriations Committee from 1979 to 1992, was 85.
        Mr. Whitten had been under treatment since the beginning of August for cardiac problems and kidney failure and was hospitalized on Sept. 4 at Oxford's Baptist Memorial Hospital-North Mississippi, in the heart of his old House district.
        With a brief interruption in the mid-1950's, when the Republicans held the majority, he was chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on agriculture from 1949 until he left Congress last year, making him a kind of shadow Secretary of Agriculture. Mr. Whitten was the man cotton farmers had to thank for the Government's large subsidy payments, the most costly of all Federal agricultural subsidy programs. He also strongly supported soil conservation and agricultural research programs.
        Farmers had him to thank, too, for support of pesticides, which he described as "an absolute necessity to our way of life" in a 1966 book, "That We May Live." Later it was disclosed that the book, designed to debunk Rachel Carson's famed anti-pesticide work, "Silent Spring," was conceived and subsidized by pesticide industry officials.
        Mr. Whitten also made sure his First District was not neglected. In 1985, the House passed a job-creation bill under his management. It contained money for a highway demonstration project that happened to land in northeastern Mississippi, where a two-lane section of Route 72 was widened to four Federally financed lanes. "I looked all over the country," Mr. Whitten told a reporter in 1987 with a wink. "I couldn't find a better place to do it."
        A larger monument to his legislative skill and persistence is the Tennessee-Tombigbee waterway, a system of rivers and canals stretching 232 miles across the northern portion of his state, from the Mississippi River to Alabama, at a cost of $2 billion. At one point, it goes under the Jamie L. Whitten Bridge. Then there is the Jamie L. Whitten Medical Clinic in his hometown of Charleston, and at his alma mater, Ole Miss, in Oxford there is the Jamie L. Whitten National Center for Physical Acoustics.
        After he became chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Mississippi moved up on the Federal spending ladder to 22d among the 50 states, although it ranks 31st in population and 33d in contributions to Federal taxes.
        Befitting his origins, Mr. Whitten ran as a conservative Democrat and opposed desegregation. But in the great upheavals of the civil rights movement he shied away from joining that fray -- with the exception of his 1962 election campaign, when he denounced his moderate opponent on the subject -- sticking to his favorite farm issues.
        At first he did not support food stamps, a popular program among most House Democrats. But, mindful of the increasing number of black voters in his district, he joined the majority on that issue in 1975. The district, with a population of about 525,000, was about 21 percent black.
        Gradually his ratings rose among organized labor and other cataloguers of liberal voting records, and when it came time for the Democratic caucus to elect a new chairman of the Appropriations Committee in 1978 he won, 157 to 88, in a secret ballot.
        As chairman, Mr. Whitten had a style of deliberate vagueness that stirred a mixture of admiration and frustration among House colleagues. "He'll give you an ulcer," said Representative Silvio O. Conte, a Massachusetts Republican, in 1985. "Dealing with him is like throwing putty at a wall."
        But Representative Joseph P. Addabbo, a Queens Democrat, said at that time, "He's a good Southern horse trader."
        Mr. Whitten had a technique of dropping his voice and thickening his already strong Southern drawl when he wanted to disguise his true purpose. "Mr. Mumbles," Mr. Conte remarked after an encounter with that technique.
        Mr. Whitten did not give up power easily. He had a minor stroke in February 1992, but it was not until June of that year that House Democrats persuaded him to step down from the Appropriations chairmanship. He did not seek re-election to Congress in 1994.
        Jamie Lloyd Whitten was born in Cascilla, Miss., on April 18, 1910, the son of Alymer Guy Whitten and the former Nettie Early. He studied literature and law at the University of Mississippi, graduating in 1931. He was a school principal before entering politics and winning election to the State Legislature, and then served three terms as a District Attorney. He won the first of his 27 Congressional elections, a special election, in November 1941, shortly before the United States entered World War II.
        Mr. Whitten is survived by his wife, the former Rebecca Thompson; two children, Jamie Lloyd Jr., of Washington, and Beverly Rebecca Merritt of Arlington, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      