
        John J. Regan, who dealt with human mortality first as a Roman Catholic priest and later as an authority on the legal rights of the elderly, died on Friday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, said Michael B. DeLuise, a spokesman for the Hofstra University School of Law, where Dr. Regan taught.
        Dr. Regan was dean of the Hofstra law school from 1978 to 1982, when at his request he gave up that post to teach full time. Since 1978, he had been the Jack and Freda Dicker Distinguished Professor of Health Care Law.
        Dr. Regan wrote three books: "Tax, Estate and Financial Planning for the Elderly" (Matthew Bender and Company, 1985); "Your Legal Rights in Later Life" (Scott, Foresman and Company, 1989) and "The Aged Client and the Law" (Columbia University Press, 1990).
        He was frequently called upon by government and private organizations for his expertise. Last January, he was a panelist at a conference called "Ethical Dilemmas for the Surgeon" sponsored by the New York Surgical Society.
        In May 1994, Dr. Regan delivered the keynote address at a conference sponsored by the New Mexico Department of Health on abuse of elderly people, a subject on which he testified in 1991 in Washington before a subcommittee of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aging. He was on the board of the National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys and was active in bar association activities involving the elderly.
        Dr. Regan, who was born in New York City, studied theology at St. John's University and Mary Immaculate College in Pennsylvania before being ordained in 1955. But even as he was carrying out the duties of a priest in the Order of St. Vincent, he was feeling the tug of the law. "The law seemed a great intellectual outlet which I could possibly use for teaching," he said in a 1978 interview.
        He graduated from Columbia University School of Law in 1960. Still a priest, he taught at St. John's University's law school and became dean of the St. John's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
        He left the priesthood in 1970 to return to Columbia on a fellowship leading to a doctorate in the law. Commenting in 1978 on his decision to leave the priesthood, he said:
        "It did not represent a break with the church or a departure from it in any respect. It was simply, rather, a rethinking of what I wanted to do with the rest of my life."
        Dr. Regan is survived by his wife, Maureen, and a daughter, Alycia, of Garden City.
      