
        Rexford F. Daubenmire, a botanist who was decades ahead of his time in looking at forest and field and figuring out what would have grown there if people had not intruded with logging and grazing, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Mount Ply mouth, Fla. He was 85.
        Dr. Daubenmire taught for 29 years at Washington State University in Pullman and was professor emeritus of botany after his retirement in 1975.
        Dr. Daubenmire (pronounced DOB-in-mire) became a widely recognized expert in plant ecology. His classification of forest and grassland vegetation in the Pacific Northwest became a standard management tool for government agencies and the timber industry. His classification scheme, considered radical when he introduced it in the early 1950's, emphasized the potential vegetation of an area, rather than what was there after visits by tree-cutters and herds of domestic animals.
        Dr. Daubenmire was also acknowledged as an expert on the effect of environmental regulations on the range of tree species in a given area and on the role of fire in shaping plant communities.
        His book "Plants and Environment," published in 1947, was translated into several languages. That book and his "Plant Communities," published in 1968, became standard reference texts for ecologists before the environmental movement gained widespread acceptance in the 1970's.
        In 1967, Dr. Daubenmire was president of the Ecological Society of America, and in 1979 he received the society's Eminent Ecologist Award.
        Dr. Daubenmire was born in Coldwater, Ohio, and graduated from Butler University in Indianapolis in 1930 with a bachelor's degree. He received a master's degree from the University of Colorado in 1932 and a doctorate in botany from the University of Minnesota in 1935.
        He joined the Washington State faculty in 1946 after 10 years at the University of Idaho. After his retirement, he continued to publish research papers on ecological subjects in the Northwest and in the Southeast.
        Dr. Daubenmire is survived by his wife, Jean, and a daughter, Janet Smith of Seattle.
      