
        Sterling Morrison, a founding member and a guitarist for the seminal experimental rock band Velvet Underground, died on Wednesday at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 53.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said his wife, Martha.
        The Velvet Underground, which helped spawn a generation of new-wave and punk-rock musicians, came to prominence in 1965 and 1966 through an association with Andy Warhol and Nico, the singer and actress.
        In a 1970 review in The New York Times, the critic Mike Jahn wrote, "The Velvet Underground plays a hard rock that is powerful and tight as a raised fist; so unified and together that it just rolls itself into a knot and throbs."
        Mr. Morrison was born in East Meadow, L.I. His parents were divorced when he was young, and his mother remarried. In "Up Tight" (1983), a history of the Velvet Underground written by Victor Bockris and Gerard Malanga, Mr. Morrison is quoted as saying, "I graduated high school with very high numbers and matching low esteem, for just about everything but music." For a time, he was in and out of various colleges. Then he founded the Velvet Underground with Lou Reed, John Cale and Maureen Tucker and the band quickly gained notice through its association with Andy Warhol, who adopted the performers as his proteges. Their music, with its knotty, pre-punk arrangements, had an influence that far outlasted the life of the band.
        After the Velvet Undergound split up in 1971, Mr. Morrison resumed his studies and earned a doctorate in medieval studies from the University of Texas at Austin.
        During that period, he supported himself and his family by piloting tugboats in the Houston Ship Channel and eventually earned a captain's license.
        By the end of the 1980's, he had resumed his music career, touring with Maureen Tucker's band and participating in the summer of 1993 in a Velvet Underground reunion tour of Europe. He collaborated with John Cale on the score for the film "Antarctica" and was a guest on rock recordings like Luna's "Bewitched." Last year Mr. Morrison was a featured performer with the Hudson Valley Philharmonic.
        The definitive collection of music by the Velvet Underground, "Peel Slowly and See," a collection of five compact disks, is to be released by A&M Records on Sept 26.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Mary Anne, and a son, Thomas, all of Poughkeepsie; his parents, William and Anne Hardern of Jensen Beach, Fla.; two brothers, Billy Hardern of Jensen Beach and Robert Morrison of New Orleans; and two sisters, Dorothy Hardern Elliott of Port St. Lucie, Fla., and Margie Hardern of North Lauderdale, Fla.
      