
        Milton K. Munitz, who retired as distinguished professor of philosophy at the City University of New York, died yesterday at his home in Scarborough, N.Y. He was 82.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Dr. Lenore Bloom Munitz, who retired as a professor of philosophy at Briarcliff College.
        Dr. Milton Munitz (pronounced MEW-nits) retired in 1983 from CUNY, whose faculty he joined as a distinguished professor in 1973. He taught at the university's Baruch College and at its Graduate Center.
        Earlier, from 1946 to 1973, he taught at New York University and headed its philosophy department from 1968 to 1973.
        In his many writings, he often discussed the philosophical implications of cosmology, which has sometimes been defined as an inquiry into the universe as a whole. His 1957 book, "Space, Time and Creation," was praised by Henry Guerlac, professor of the history of science at Cornell, in The New York Times Book Review, as "clearly written, cogently argued and pretty thoroughly demathematized."
        As Dr. Munitz's son Charles, who also has a doctorate in philosophy, put it yesterday, Milton Munitz "was devoted to making sense of the concept of the 'creation of the universe.' "
        Charles Munitz said his father argued, in that book and in other writings, as the son put it, "that there could be no facile transition from physicists' models of the evolution of the early universe to ideas about what caused the universe to come to be in the first place."
        Milton Munitz received the Nicholas Murray Butler medal in Silver from Columbia University and had Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships.
        He was born and raised in Brooklyn and received a bachelor's degree from City College and a master's and then a doctorate -- in 1939 -- from Columbia. He was an Air Force lieutenant in World War II.
        In addition to his wife of 48 years, and his son Charles, of Somerville, Mass., he is survived by another son, Andrew S., of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      