
        Rene Anselmo, who built a Spanish language television network in the United States and then at age 61 bet his fortune on creating the world's first privately owned global satellite network, died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 69.
        The cause was heart disease, his company, the PanAmSat Corporation, said.
        Reynold Vincent Anselmo was the son of a postmaster in Bedford, Mass.
        Mr. Anselmo was a colorful man, at times charming and gracious and at others decidedly blunt. He drove himself in his black Bentley from his mansion in Greenwich, modeled after the palace at Versailles, to his job as chairman of PanAmSat.
        He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1951, where he dabbled in amateur theater, and then went on vacation to Mexico, where he landed work producing Mexican television shows.
        In 1963, he returned to the United States with his family and started what became the Spanish International Network, known as SIN. The network combined more than 400 broadcast, satellite and cable outlets when it was sold in 1987 to Hallmark Cards Inc. Mr. Anselmo, who owned 25 percent of SIN, is said to have pocketed $80 million.
        SIN was sold when it was under siege by the Federal Communications Commission, which said it was so closely connected with the Azcarraga family, the owners of Televisa, Mexico's largest broadcast company, that SIN's ownership violated rules against ownership of United States networks by aliens.
        Instead of retiring, he created PanAmSat and announced that he would break the monopoly on satellite transmission of video images held by Intselsat, which is owned by 120 governments, including the United States. Today, his company has three satellites and beams signals for HBO, ESPN and others around the world.
        The European-made Ariane rockets that sent PanAmSat satellites into orbit from launching pads in French Guiana were emblazoned with the company's unofficial logo, which conveyed Mr. Anselmo's views of government-run monopolies. The logo featured a cartoon dog raising its leg, as if to a tree.
        Critics dismissed Mr. Anselmo's plan in 1984 to take on Intelsat as a foolhardy venture. Last year, PanAmSat earned $18 million on revenues of $63.7 million, up from $17 million on $50 million in 1993. The company, which employs 160 people, also raised $620 million last year to finance expansion and modernization of its satellite network.
        In Greenwich, he donated more than 100,000 daffodil and tulip bulbs, planting some of them himself. So many people adopted his vision of a beautiful town that when the snows melt, the city is carpeted with daffodils.
        He also financed the renovation of schools and public buildings in Greenwich and in Vermont.
        Mr. Anselmo is survived by Mary, his wife of more than 40 years; two sons, Reverge, who lives in New Mexico, and Rayce, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Pier, of Greenwich, and five grandchildren.
        A PanAmSat spokesman said private funeral services were planned.
      