
        Geoffrey Stokes, an author and journalist whose work ranged from politics to sports to music to cooking, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 55 and lived in Woodstock, Vt.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Janice Prindle, said.
        Mr. Stokes was a staff writer for 17 years at The Village Voice. His books include "Pinstripe Pandemonium," about a season with the New York Yankees; "Starmaking Machinery," about the marketing of a rock band; one volume of the three-volume "Rock of Ages: the Rolling Stone History of Rock-and-Roll" and "The Beatles." He collaborated with the psychiatrist Robert Coles on "Sex and the American Teen-Ager."
        Mr. Stokes was born in Newton, Mass., and was reared in Larchmont, N.Y. He received a bachelor's degree at Fairfield University and a master's degree in public administration at the University of Ohio and went on to doctoral studies in public administration and literature at Fordham University. He became an assistant professor of literature at Fordham.
        In the early 1960's he became active in Democratic politics on the Lower East Side. When John V. Lindsay was Mayor of New York City, Mr. Stokes held several senior positions including deputy commissioner for the Department of Environmental Protection.
        But he turned from politics to writing. At The Village Voice, he was a rock critic, a political reporter and a literary critic. For many years, he wrote the Press Clips column of media criticism and under the pseudonymn Vladimir Estragon, a food column called Waiting for Dessert.
        He left The Voice in 1992, and went on to become a columnist for The Boston Globe and The Valley News of Lebanon, N.H. He was named columnist of the year by the New Hampshire Press Association and was the runner-up as columnist of the year in the 1995 New England Press Association awards.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Connelly and Cecily Stokes-Prindle of Woodstock; two sons, Timothy of Stafford, Vt., and Liam of New York City, and a sister, Martha Stokes of Staten Island.
      