
        Leon D. Adams, considered by wine aficionados and the wine industry to be the seminal wine historian in the United States in the 20th century, died on Thursday in San Francisco. He was 90.
        Mr. Adams was a prolific author of books, articles and pamphlets about wine, particularly North American wine, and was a founder of the Wine Institute, the trade organization that represents California's wine industry.
        He was most widely known for "The Wines of America" (McGraw-Hill), a history and survey of wine and wineries throughout the country.  It was first published in 1973 and has gone through four editions.
        "With the first edition of his book," said Warren Winiarski, the owner of Stag's Leap Wine Cellars, in California's Napa Valley, "Leon gave the wine industry a hard-as-nails, unsentimental look at what was happening nationwide. We were in the dark about wine growing in the U.S. He organized our sense of who was growing what and where."
        Virtually a lifelong Californian, Mr. Adams appreciated the enormous breadth and depth of that state's wines, but his eclectic tastes and interests led him to celebrate American regional wines and their styles.
        He praised with equal gusto the distinctive but undervalued Scuppernong grape of the South and the wines from grapes native to the United States, like Niagara and Diamond in the Finger Lakes region of New York.
        "Leon was not much interested in the fancier aspects of wine," said Gerald Asher, the longtime wine editor of Gourmet magazine. "He always said that wine should be as cheap as milk. He had a point."
        Mr. Adams was a tireless advocate of the farm winery bills passed by many states in the 1970's and 1980's, which eased the way for grape growers to open wineries and to sell their wines retail and wholesale.
        He was founder of the Society of Medical Friends of Wine, an organization of doctors that meets frequently for tastings.
        His other books included "The Commonsense Book of Wine" (fourth edition, McGraw-Hill, 1986), "The Commonsense Book of Drinking" and, earliest of all, "Striped Bass Fishing in California and Oregon."
        A visitor to Mr. Adams's home in Sausalito, Calif., in the mid-1980's found it overflowing with wine literature. Books, magazines, articles and clippings cascaded from every shelf and table and covered much of the floor.
        For Mr. Adams, wine was more than a beverage, it was a cause. In his writing and speeches -- friend and foe alike often found him inspiring and usually crusty -- he said that wine was a civilizing force.
        Mr. Adams, born in Boston, studied at the University of California at Berkeley and worked as a journalist for publications that included the McClatchy newspapers and The San Francisco Bulletin.
        He is survived by his former wife, Eleanor; three sons, Gerald D., Brian A. and Timothy R.; a daughter, Susan C. Adams, and three grandchildren.
      