
        Harry D. Goldman, a retired judge who appointed monitors to protect inmates at Attica prison after a riot in which more than 40 people were killed, died on Thursday at his home in Rochester. He was 92.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Judge Goldman served in the state courts for 22 years. From 1968 to 1973, he was the presiding justice of the Appellate Division's Fourth Department, covering western New York.
        Most of the deaths at Attica in 1971 came as state troopers stormed the prison to regain control. Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller was widely criticized for those tactics and for refusing the rioters' request to come and help settle the dispute.
        The day after the riot ended, the Governor asked Judge Goldman to appoint a five-member panel to visit the prison to protect the surviving prisoners during that tense period. The judge did so the following day but excluded himself, saying, "Judges are not experts on penology."
        Two weeks later, Judge Goldman told state officials that the panel had received complaints of mistreatment, and the Governor relayed them to the United States Attorney General, John N. Mitchell. Soon after, the Goldman panel, as it was known, issued a 36-page report saying tensions "still smolder" and "the danger of harassment of inmates continues."
        Although Judge Goldman was a Republican, he was endorsed by the Democrats in 1969, and he received appointments from two Democratic Governors. In 1957, a year after Judge Goldman was first elected, Gov. W. Averell Harriman promoted him to the Appellate Division. In 1975, Gov. Hugh L. Carey granted him a waiver to continue past the normal retirement age of 70.
        In 1972, Judge Goldman was one of three ranking judges who decided to merge the city and state criminal courts in Manhattan and the Bronx.
        As a delegate to the 1967 State Constitutional Convention, he argued for, among other things, the repeal of a requirement that orphans be matched religiously to adoptive parents. That rule kept "children in institutions, denying them good homes where they are ardently wanted," he said. Eventually, the convention fizzled, torn over various issues. Judge Goldman said: "As a matter of conscience, we should pack our bags, go home and tell the people to take us off the payroll."
        Born in Rome, N.Y., he graduated from Syracuse University and Brooklyn Law School.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Jane Cohen; two sons, James, of Colchester, Vt., and John, of Rochester, and seven grandchildren.
      