
        Eugene M. Schwartz, who with his wife, Barbara, assembled one of the nation's leading collections of contemporary art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife said.
        An advertising copywriter whose specialty was direct-mail campaigns, Mr. Schwartz was the author of 10 books, including "Breakthrough Advertising" and "The Brilliance Breakthrough." He wrote some of the most celebrated lines in direct-mail advertising, such as "Give Me 15 Minutes and I'll Give You a Super-Power Memory," which launched the first book of the memory expert Harry Lorraine.
        But it was as an enthusiastic lover of art that Mr. Schwartz was best known. "Collecting is the only socially commendable form of greed," he told an interviewer in 1991. But for him it was also a form of generosity, since he gave away art with as much zeal as he purchased it. In contrast to the many collectors who donate art primarily to one museum in the hope of seeing a gallery or a wing named after them, Mr. Schwartz gave away hundreds of pieces to large and small institutions all around the country, including the Metropolitan Museum, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the New School for Social Research, the Brooklyn Museum and the Detroit Institute of Art, among others.
        He was a member of acquisition committees at several museums, including the Whitney and the Modern, and frequently tried to push institutions to purchase art on the cutting edge. He and Mrs. Schwartz were passionate supporters of the new, and they continually shifted the art in their own collection, selling pieces or donating them to museums to make room for more recent works.  Mr. Schwartz once spoke of his collection as a "conduit for museums," and took pride in the fact that the displays on the walls of his Park Avenue penthouse changed nearly as regularly as those in a museum gallery.
        Although the zeal with he and his wife, an interior designer, pursued new art led New York magazine to put the couple on the cover in 1987 as the embodiment of the 1980's art boom, Mr. Schwartz frequently tried to distance himself from collectors of that decade who bought art as an investment.
        "The only important thing about art is the art itself -- not its monetary value, not its social prestige, not its public-relations leverage," he wrote in a small booklet titled "Confessions of a Poor Collector." He urged potential collectors to study, read catalogues and train their eyes to "search for the strongest painting, the most beautiful painting, the most profound painting."
        For Mr. Schwartz, that included works by abstract artists such as Kenneth Noland, Frank Stella, Morris Louis and Donald Judd. Later Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz acquired substantial holdings in photography, which they sold in 1984, and went on to purchase art made in the 1980's and 90's.
        New art, Mr. Schwartz wrote, "will violate what you think good art is," and should be measured not by immediate pleasure but "by the shock and challenge to your expectations." Last April, continuing his quest for the new, he was reported to have purchased a piece of computer art by Douglas Davis that was created on the Internet.
        He was born on March 18, 1927, in Butte, Mont., and studied at the University of Washington. He moved to New York City in 1949, joining the advertising firm of Huber Hoge & Sons as a messenger boy and working his way up to copy chief. In 1954 he went into business on his own.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Michael, and a grandson.
      