
        Buster Mathis, an oversized heavyweight boxer who lost a championship bout to Joe Frazier in 1968 and a comeback fight to Muhammad Ali in 1971, died Wednesday. He was 51.
        His wife, Joan, found him unconscious at home and he was pronounced dead at Butterworth Hospital in Grand Rapids, Mich., where he lived since boyhood. Hospital officials said he died of heart failure.
        For five years, he had been slowed by high blood pressure and diabetes, and he later suffered two strokes and kidney failure. A pacemaker was installed after a 1993 heart attack.
        His son, Buster Mathis Jr., said he would go through with a Nov. 4 bout in Las Vegas, Nev., against Mike Tyson, the former heavyweight champion.
        Buster Mathis was born on a farm near Sledge, Miss., a three-pound incubator baby and the youngest of eight children. His father weighed 300 and his mother 180, but their son was scrawny until his teens.
        "All the kids picked on me," he once said, "but I was too scared to fight. So I asked my ma to build me up. She fed me soul food -- real good steak, corn bread, potatoes. Then, one day I woke up and I was a big boy."
        At age 16, in his first boxing tournament, he was 6 feet 3 1/2 inches and 290 pounds. Later, his weight ballooned to 370.
        He was surprisingly quick in the ring, and in the 1964 United States Olympic trials at Singer Bowl, during the World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens, he won the heavyweight final by outpointing Frazier.
        Shortly after, fighting Frazier again, he hit him on the head and broke his right middle finger. He had to drop out of the Olympics. Frazier replaced him, won the gold medal in Tokyo, turned professional and later became the world champion.
        Mathis turned professional in 1965 and enjoyed moderate success. In 1968, after Ali had been stripped of the world title for refusing Army induction, Mathis fought Frazier in Madison Square Garden for the New York State version of the world title. Frazier knocked him out in the 11th round. Mathis cried for days and put on 70 pounds.
        In 1971, after two and a half years in retirement, Mathis returned and fought Ali in a 12-round nontitle bout at the Houston Astrodome. Although Mathis had trimmed down to 256 pounds, radio commercials for the fight said, "The Mountain Comes to Muhammad." The mountain did, but Ali knocked him down four times and won a unanimous decision.
        Murray Goodman, a longtime boxing publicist, once summed up Mathis's career this way:
        "He got there before he was ready, and the confusion of too many teachers, too much glory and a mad pace to nowhere resulted in setbacks that shouldn't have occurred."
        Mathis is survived by his wife, his son and his daughter, Antonia.
      