
        Dr. Murray B. Bornstein, who was known for his research involving multiple sclerosis, died on Thursday in Gainesville, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Norwich, Vt.
        The cause was a cardiac aneurysm, his family said. He was stricken at Gainesville Regional Airport after testifying in a Florida court as an expert witness in a case involving multiple sclerosis.
        At his death, Dr. Bornstein was adjunct professor of neurology in the department of medicine at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H.
        In 1988, he formally retired as a professor in the departments of neurology and neuroscience at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in the Bronx, having been on its faculty since 1966. But he remained active at Albert Einstein until 1994.
        From 1958 to 1966, he was a laboratory director at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, and from 1956 to 1958, he was a visiting fellow at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Beginning in the 1950's, Dr. Bornstein developed a way of growing central nerve tissue -- brain and spinal-cord tissue from mouse embryos -- in tissue culture. He made use of that technique in carrying out innovative research relating to multiple sclerosis and, later, to other diseases.
        While he was at Albert Einstein, and in collaboration with the Weizmann Institute in Israel and with an Israeli pharmaceutical company, Teva, he directed clinical trials of a laboratory-made protein, known as Cop 1, in treating multiple sclerosis, said William Weiss, a biostatistician who worked with him. He said the Food and Drug Administration is considering authorizing Teva to market Cop 1 as a drug for one kind of multiple sclerosis.
        Dr. Bornstein, who was born in Paterson, N.J., graduated from Dartmouth College in 1939. He received master's degrees in physiology from McGill University in Montreal and the University of Geneva in Switzerland and his M.D. in 1952, also from Geneva.
        He is survived by his wife, Selma; three sons, Joshua, of Ithaca, N.Y., David, of Boston, and Daniel, of Vista, N.Y.; two daughters, Miriam Bornstein-Doble of Union, Me., and Judy Bornstein of Norwich, and three grandchildren.
      