
        Francis O. Schmitt, a molecular biologist who was one of the first to use X-rays and electron microscopes to study the innermost workings of cells and who helped lay the modern foundation of molecular biology, died on Tuesday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 91.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        Dr. Schmitt was a leader of the scientific effort in the 1940's and 50's to determine how cells functioned at the molecular level. He established the nation's first center for electron microscopy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was recruited in 1941 to lead research in molecular biology.
        At the time, scientists around the world were beginning to delve deeper into the basic molecular level of cells with the help of new technology. Dr. Schmitt, whose primary target was nerve cells, was the first American scientist to apply X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy in his field.
        Under his leadership, M.I.T. researchers made significant discoveries about the compositions of cells, particularly those in nerve fibers and the brain. They also carried out research on glands and hormones, using such laboratory materials as giant squids whose nerve fibers were so extraordinarily large that they were mistaken for blood vessels.
        In 1947 Dr. Schmitt reported that with the help of an electron microscope that magnified an object 100,000 times, he and his colleagues at M.I.T. had determined that nerve fibers were really bundles of cells composed of many smaller fibers, like a steel cable.
        His broad range of research extended to kidney function, conduction in heart muscle, tissue metabolism, the chemistry and physiology of nerve cells, ultrasonic radiation, biochemistry and the molecular architecture of cells and tissue.
        In 1962 he decided that a joint scientific effort was necessary to make significant progress in neuro scientific research. This led him to found, under the sponsorship of M.I.T., the Neurosciences Research Program at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The program enabled scientists and researchers from around the world to join forces with mathematicians, physicists, chemists and engineers to study the physiochemical basis of such mental processes as long-term memory, learning and consciousness.
        He was Institute Professor at M.I.T. before he retired in 1969.
        Dr. Schmitt, who was born in St. Louis on Nov. 23, 1903, received a bachelor's degree in 1924 and a Ph.D. in physiology from Washington University in St. Louis in 1927.
        After completing his medical studies he remained at the university, and was chairman of its zoology department in 1941 when he accepted the offer from M.I.T. to head its microbiology program.
        Dr. Schmitt received the Lasker Award of the American Public Health Association in 1956 and the T. Duckett Jones Memorial Award of the Helen Hay Whitney Foundation in 1963. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences and other professional associations.
        His wife, Barbara, died in 1975. He is survived by a daughter, Marion Ellis of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, Robert, of San Diego; a brother, Otto, of Minneapolis; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      