
        The Right Rev. John McGill Krumm, a firm Episcopalian voice for ecumenism, social advocacy and the ordination of women, died on Monday in Tustin, Calif., where he had been bishop-in-residence since 1983. He was 82.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to the six-county Diocese of Los Angeles, which he concurrently served as assisting bishop.
        As chaplain of Columbia University from 1952 to 1965, Dr. Krumm expressed the concern that young people viewed the Protestant Episcopal Church as behind the times and more than a little Victorian. The church, he argued, must take a stand at the risk of controversy and speak out on the social and political issues of the day.
        He inveighed against the "American hysteria about communism" during the McCarthy period and petitioned President Dwight D. Eisenhower for an amnesty for those jailed under the sedition laws. He lobbied for a ban on further nuclear-weapons tests, for equal rights and for passage of President John F. Kennedy's civil rights legislation.
        He urged fellow churchmen to work for better housing in New York, and he tried to calm the racial tensions in Morningside Heights, near Columbia, in the  1960's. An avowed Democrat, he told his listeners that religious bigotry had no  place in Presidential elections, when Mr. Kennedy, a Roman Catholic, was elected.
        Dr. Krumm continued his outspoken ways as Rector of the historic Church of The Ascension in Greenwich Village from 1965 to 1971, and was a strong contender for the post of Episcopal Bishop of New York in 1969. He was elected Bishop of Southern Ohio in 1971.
        He sponsored the resolution for women's ordination that was accepted in principle by the House of Bishops in 1974 and adopted by a General Convention two years later.
        Dr. Krumm was born in South Bend, Ind., and earned degrees at the University  of California at Los Angeles, Virginia Theological Seminary and Yale University. He was ordained in Los Angeles in 1938 and served parishes in California and Connecticut before being installed as Dean of St. Paul's Cathedral in Los Angeles in 1948.
        He is survived by a brother, William F., of Arcadia, Calif.
      