
        John A. Scali, the former ABC News correspondent whose secret role as a go-between made him a pivotal figure in resolving the Cuban missile crisis and who later served as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, died yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 77 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was heart failure, according to an announcement from ABC News.
        Mr. Scali's colorful journalistic career put him at the center of many historic events, but his most significant story -- his involvement in pulling back the Soviet Union and the United States from the brink of nuclear war in October 1962 -- was one that he was forced to keep secret.
        When he finally spoke, two years later, he said the episode began with a call from a man whom he knew to be the chief of Soviet intelligence in the United States. He was later identified as Aleksandr Fomin, the counselor of the Soviet Embassy.
        "He wanted to have lunch with me," Mr. Scali (pronounced SKAH-lee) said on ABC News in 1964. "I'd already had lunch when he called me, but his voice was so urgent and insistent that I decided to go immediately." The two men met at the old Occidental Restaurant, two blocks from the White House.
        "After the waiter had taken our order, he came right to the point and said, 'War seems about to break out; something must be done to save the situation.'
        "And I said, 'Well, you should have thought of that before you introduced the missiles.'
        "He then said, 'There might be a way out; what would you think of a proposition whereby we would promise to remove our missiles under United Nations inspection, where Mr. Khrushchev would promise never to introduce such offensive missiles into Cuba again? Would the President of the United States be willing to promise publicly not to invade Cuba?'
        "I said I didn't know, but I would be willing to try and find out.
        "The rest of the meal was eaten in silence, and incidentally he got my crab cakes and I wound up with his pork chop, but he didn't notice it."
        In the days that followed, Mr. Scali acted as courier, Government spokesman and negotiator for the Kennedy Administration before the crisis was peacefully resolved.
        After accounts of Mr. Scali's role were published in 1964, he answered the question of whether he would do it again knowing he would get scooped on his own story.
        "The answer is yes," he said. "At times like that, a reporter has no choice. Because whatever he can do to save humanity from destruction, even just an ounce worth, he must do -- and that's not just patriotic flag waving."
        Mr. Scali, who had been appointed State Department and diplomatic correspondent for ABC News in 1961, continued in that capacity until 1971, when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him special consultant for foreign affairs and communications.
        Two years later, Mr. Nixon named Mr. Scali to replace George Bush as United States Representative to the United Nations. The appointment prompted a barrage of criticism that Mr. Nixon was downgrading the office.
        "That baffles me," Mr. Scali said. "If my 30 years of covering diplomacy and visiting 79 countries disqualifies me from representing this country at the U.N., then we'd better find a better yardstick."
        Indeed, two years later, when President Gerald R. Ford abruptly replaced Mr. Scali, there was general agreement that Mr. Scali had acquitted himself well.
        In a notable 1974 speech, Mr. Scali warned the United Nations that support for it in Congress and among the American people was being eroded by a trend toward dominance by a broad coalition of developing nations, including very small ones, backed by the Communist powers.
        He cautioned that "when the rule of the majority becomes the tyranny of the majority, the minority will cease to respect or obey it."
        In 1975, Mr. Scali returned to ABC News as a senior correspondent based in Washington, where he specialized in major developments concerning national security. He retired two years ago but remained a consultant until his death.
        Mr. Scali, who was born on April 27, 1918, in Canton, Ohio, grew up in Boston. He received a bachelor's degree in journalism from Boston University in 1942. Before joining ABC in 1961, he spent 17 years with The Associated Press as a diplomatic and roving correspondent after reporting for The Boston Herald and the Boston bureau of United Press.
        Mr. Scali is survived by his wife, the former Denise St. Germain of Washington. He is also survived by three daughters of his first marriage, to Helen Glock, which ended in divorce. The daughters are Donna Bordley of Vienna, Va.; Paula Scali of Manhattan and Carla Byrd of Bethesda, Md.
      