
        Sir Philip Oppenheimer, a member of the family that controls the De Beers Mining Company and a former chairman of the company's diamond-marketing cartel, died on Oct. 8 in London. He was 83.
        The family did not disclose the cause of death, a spokesman for De Beers said.
        As head of the London-based Central Selling Organization for 45 years until the end of 1993, Sir Philip oversaw a diamond sales cartel set up by De Beers to keep strict control over worldwide diamond supply and to end the wild price swings that led to the failure of many diamond mines in the first decades of the century.
        The cartel, backed by the enormous influence of De Beers within the industry, was remarkably successful, and controlled the sale of nearly all the diamonds produced in De Beers's mines in South Africa, as well as other mines. One of Sir Philip's greatest coups was to bring the Soviet Union and its huge diamond reserves into the cartel in the late 1950's.
        Although the cartel showed strains from time to time, with countries like Angola and Zaire occasionally selling their diamond production directly onto the world markets, the organization under Sir Philip generally controlled the flow of 80 percent of diamond production. In the last few years the cartel has come under pressure again as Russia has sold more of its production outside the organization.
        Philip Oppenheimer was born on Oct. 29, 1911, in Britain. He graduated from Harrow and from Jesus College at Cambridge University, where he was captain of the boxing team. He began working in the family business in London in 1934, sitting at a bench sorting and valuing diamonds.
        After serving as a lieutenant colonel in the British Army in World War II and participating in the invasion of Sicily, he returned to De Beers in London, and took over the sales cartel in 1948 after the death of his father, Otto.
        Sir Philip, who was knighted in 1970, worked closely over the years with his cousin, Harry Oppenheimer, the chairman of De Beers Mining, in building and protecting the family's diamond empire as it dealt with the complex politics of Africa as it emerged from colonial rule and especially South Africa. Sir Philip had a reputation in Britain as a social liberal who sought to use the economic influence of the family's company to improve the living standards of its employees.
        In addition to his role at De Beers, Sir Philip was well known in Britain for his involvement in horse racing. In addition to owning a stable of winning horses, he pushed De Beers into sponsoring the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Diamond Stakes at Ascot, one of the nation's most prestigious races, each July.
        Sir Philip is survived by his wife, the former Pamela Fenn Stirling, whom he married in 1935, and their two children, Anthony, who is now president of the Central Selling Organization, and Valerie.
      