
        Terry Southern, a novelist and screenwriter whose credits included "Dr. Strangelove" and "Easy Rider," two films that crystallized the anger and unease of the 1960's, died on Sunday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in East Canaan, Conn.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Nile. Mr. Southern collapsed on Wednesday while on his way to teach a class on screenwriting at Columbia University.
        Mr. Southern spelled out his artistic credo in an interview in 1964. "The important thing in writing," he said, "is the capacity to astonish. Not shock -- shock is a worn-out word -- but astonish. The world has no grounds whatever for complacency. The Titanic couldn't sink, but it did. Where you find smugness, you find something worth blasting. I want to blast it."
        He pursued those aims most notably in the two screenplays that brought him and his co-writers Academy Award nominations: "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" (1964) and "Easy Rider" (1969).
        He was a co-author, with Stanley Kubrick and Peter George of "Dr. Strangelove," a a black comedy about military folly that ends in Armageddon. Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, Keenan Wynn and Slim Pickens led the cast.
        For "Easy Rider," Mr. Southern and two of the film's stars, Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper, created a screenplay about two drug-fueled dropouts who travel cross-country by motorcycle, ostensibly in search of the American dream, and in the process pick up a true free spirit played by Jack Nicholson.
        " 'Dr. Strangelove' was one of the most important films of the 1960's," said Robert Sklar, a film historian and a professor of cinema studies at New York University, recalling Mr. Southern's work. "It satirized the cold-war mentality and helped lay the groundwork for the 1960's counterculture. 'Easy Rider' chronicled the futility of some of the myths of the drug culture, and the idea of freedom from convention, which reached their heights in the late 1960's."
        The other screenplays he worked on included "The Loved One" (1965), which he and Christopher Isherwood adapted from Evelyn Waugh's sendup of the funeral industry; "The Cincinnati Kid" (1965), starring Steve McQueen and Edward G. Robinson in a duel at the poker table, and "Barbarella" (1968), a science-fiction tale featuring a lightly clad Jane Fonda.
        Mr. Southern's books included the novel "Candy," which he wrote jointly with Mason Hoffenberg. It was published in 1958 by Olympia Press in Paris under the pseudonym Maxwell Kenton, and in 1964 in the United States, where it quickly achieved notoriety as a raunchy best seller, with Mr. Southern and Mr. Hoffenberg listed as its co-authors.
        "Candy" describes the odd generosity, in sexual matters, of an innocent girl who is looking for her father. The book, a parody of Voltaire's "Candide," was made into a 1968 movie with a script by Buck Henry and starred, among others, Richard Burton and Ringo Starr.
        "Candy" began as a short story, Mr. Southern recalled in a 1992 interview, adding, "I was thinking about a particular kind of girl who lives in Greenwich Village and is trying to be emancipated, but is really an innocent." The author William Styron called the book's best scenes "wickedly funny to read and morally bracing as only good satire can be."
        The Pennsylvania Supreme Court expressed a contrary view in 1967, describing the book as "revolting and disgusting" but concluding that its sale could not be banned legally in that state.
        In 1992, Brad Tyer wrote in The New York Times Book Review that in earlier years, "from his vantage point as a literary hipster, Mr. Southern used to cast a good-natured sneer at what he called the 'quality lit game,' even as his work redefined what literature could include."
        Lee Hill, a Canadian writer who is working on a biography of Mr. Southern, said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Southern's sensibility became unfashionable in the 1970's as the cultural climate grew more conservative. Nonetheless, he said, Mr. Southern continued to work on screenplays.
        All told, Nile Southern said, his father worked on more than 40 original screenplays that were never produced. Perhaps, he suggested, that was partly the result of what was seen as his father's "association with drugs."
        Mr. Southern's other books include "Red-Dirt Marijuana and Other Tastes" (1967), a collection of short stories and other writings; the novels "Flash and Filigree" (1958) and "The Magic Christian" (1959), the latter of which became a 1969 movie with a screenplay that Mr. Southern helped write, and "Blue Movie" (1970), a bawdy work about the filming of a big-budget stag film in Hollywood.
        "Texas Summer" (1992), his first new novel in years, received mixed reviews. The Seattle Times called it sublime. The Houston Chronicle called it "one long yawn."
        Mr. Southern was a staff writer for "Saturday Night Live" in 1981 and 1982 and collaborated on the script for the 1988 film "The Telephone," with Whoopi Goldberg.
        In the 1980's and 90's, he taught screenwriting at New York University and then at Columbia. He also wrote the text for "Virgin," an illustrated history of Virgin Records, which is to be published in Britain next month and distributed in the United States and elsewhere.
        A pharmacist's son, Mr. Southern was born in Alvarado, Tex. He began writing short stories as the age of 11, went to high school in Dallas, attended Southern Methodist University and the University of Chicago, received a B.A. from Northwestern University in 1948 and studied at the Sorbonne in Paris from 1948 to 1950. He served in the Army from 1943 to 1945.
        He married Carol Kauffman in 1956. They separated in the mid-1960's and were divorced in 1972.
        In addition to his son, of Boulder, Colo., he is survived by his companion, Gail Gerber.
      