
        Al Schreiber, a New York supermarket executive who was a former chairman of Maimonides Medical Center and a philanthropist, died on Saturday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Mill Basin, Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications from a brain tumor, said his wife, Ellen.
        At his death, Mr. Schreiber was the president and chief executive officer of Royal Farms, the Brooklyn-based parent company of Big R Supermarkets Warehouse, which operates 17 supermarkets in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.
        Mr. Schreiber, who was also a real estate investor and developer, was the major shareholder in Royal Farms and had been its president and chief executive since 1966, said his son, Michael.
        Mr. Schreiber was chairman of Maimonides Medical Center in Borough Park, Brooklyn, from 1989 through 1994.
        While he was chairman, Maimonides established a cardiothoracic surgery center, constructed two treatment units for ambulatory cancer patients and other patients, opened a new rehabilitation and physical therapy unit and developed a network of neighborhood primary-care offices in Brooklyn. In 1993, he won the United Hospital Fund's Trustees' Award for exemplary service.
        The beneficiaries of Mr. Schreiber's philanthropy included the medical center and a variety of Jewish communal organizations. The medical center's 400-seat auditorium is named in memory of his parents, Charles and Sally Schreiber. Al Schreiber was saluted at a Maimonides fund-raising dinner for more than 600 people at the Plaza Hotel in December 1994.
        Mr. Schreiber was born and raised in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. His father, who died in 1987, was the founder and a president of Royal Farms, which originally operated small dairy stores.
        Mr. Schreiber graduated from Samuel J. Tilden High School in Brooklyn, attended Long Island University and Rio Grande College in Ohio and went on to play professional basketball briefly with the Boston Whirlwinds.
        In addition to his wife of 35 years, the former Ellen Lampell, and his son, Michael, of East Hills, L.I., who is the vice president of Royal Farms, Mr. Schreiber is survived by two daughters, Sharon Bouganim of Brooklyn and Carol Schreiber of Manhattan; a sister, Thyra Levine of Woodbury, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      