
        The irrepressible chauvinist Bobby Riggs, a former Wimbledon champion who in  1973 reached a dual zenith of tennis fame and infamy as the 55-year-old braggart who was throttled by Billie Jean King in their landmark Battle of the Sexes bout, died last night in Leucadia, Calif., a suburb of San Diego. He was 77.
        Riggs had battled prostate cancer for the past decade and rallied after a 1989 operation, but he had been in failing health for several months. He died at his home, said Lornie Kuhle, a longtime friend and the executive director of the Bobby Riggs Tennis Museum Foundation.
        For half a century, Riggs made, and routinely manipulated, tennis into a unique career that never kept him far from the spotlight. Fittingly, he made his last appearance in a tennis exhibition with King two years ago; playing for charity rather than pay, and playing as doubles partners rather than adversaries, the disparate duo tackled Elton John and Martina Navratilova in an  AIDS benefit.
        According to King, who became a good friend of the brash impresario who loved to typecast himself as the world's greatest chauvinist, their ballyhooed and controversial 1973 battle "helped put women's tennis on the map and lifted all of tennis to a whole new level of acceptance."
        Riggs first put himself on the tennis map in 1939 as a 21-year-old American upstart making his Wimbledon debut. Riggs, unsung despite being a French Open finalist the month before, nearly caused a scandal among the London bookmakers when he hit a trifecta of sorts on the lawns of the staid All England Club: he defeated Elwood Cooke in a five-set all-American singles final, teamed with Cooke to win the men's doubles and partnered the celebrated Alice Marble to capture the mixed doubles crown in the last Wimbledon played before the event was interrupted by World War II from 1940-45.
        After his Wimbledon sweep, he went home and conquered 19-year-old Welby Van Horn in straight sets to win the United States National Championships at Forest  Hills.
        Robert Lorimer Riggs was born in Los Angeles on Feb. 25, 1918. He took up tennis when he was 12 at the behest of an older brother who needed a practice partner, and quickly distinguished himself as a prodigy with a flair for exotic  playmaking. Within a month, he entered Southern California's competitive junior  circuit and reached the final of the region's boys 13 competition on his first attempt.
        By 16, he was the nation's junior singles champion but incurred the wrath of  the establishment by electing not to defend his title. Instead, in 1935, armed with the prediction that he'd be the nation's top amateur within five years, he  hopped in his jalopy and went cross-country to compete against adult amateurs. In the course of his trip, he had his clothes and wallet stolen, and just after selling his spare tires and extra racquet for gas money, he also lost the  car -- but no calamity was sufficient to deter him from his goal.
        To everyone's surprise but his own, he hit No. 1 one in 1939, just as he had  predicted.
        According to J. Donald Budge, the man he supplanted as Wimbledon and United States National champion in 1939, Riggs's small stature -- he stood 5 feet 8 inches and weighed 140 pounds -- belied a lion's heart and a magician's bag of tricks.
        "He had supreme self-confidence," said Budge, who also recalled that Riggs was supremely unpredictable on and off the court. Just before he was scheduled to play a pivotal Davis Cup match in 1938, Riggs went AWOL; after a search by Davis Cup officials and teammates, Budge said he was discovered in the country club's basement, pool cue in hand, happily immersed in a game of billiards.
        After sinking his shot in the side pocket, recalled Budge, Riggs went onto the tennis court and helped the United States win the Davis Cup against Australia.
        Riggs turned professional in 1941, and teamed with Budge to capture the national doubles title in 1942 and 1947 and prevailed in singles in 1946, 1947,  and 1949. He held the post of executive vice president with the New York-based American Photograph Corporation from 1953-71, but Riggs, inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1967, remained a fixture in the sport. In 1982 he was ranked second in men's 60 singles and won the Men's 60 Grass Court Championships for the third time.
        Riggs earned his date with King by defeating another women's champion, Margaret Court, in a 1973 exhibition that turned out to be the harbinger of several decades' worth of gender-driven contests.
        He felt King was forced into competing against him at the Astrodome because his victory over Court created a feminist furor.
        "The women's liberation movement was growing and it was embarrassing, a 55-year-old man beating one of their star players," Riggs said.
        King said: "People need to understand that he was the No. 1 player in the world at one time, and not just a great hustler. He hustled and got Margaret Court to play him, and when I said yes to that Battle of the Sexes, I knew my life would never be the same again."
        Riggs was sincerely stunned when King beat him, 6-4, 6-3, 6-3.
        "I underestimated Billie Jean and overestimated myself," he said. "But I think it helped give women's tennis credibility."
        What Riggs remembered most about his encounter with King at the Astrodome, where he arrived in a chariot and wore his signature Sugar Daddy jacket, was that it drew a record-setting crowd of 30,472, was watched by 50 million television viewers, and earned him an impressive $1.5 million.
        Win or lose it was, he recalled, the stunt of a lifetime. And Riggs, a minister's son who chose the tennis court for his own personal pulpit, spent a lifetime concocting and performing stunts, most of them irreverent. At various times in his very variegated tennis career, Riggs selected such unorthodox doubles partners as a donkey, an elephant and a lion cub.
        He is survived by five children, Robert Jr., Lawrence, John, Dorothy, and William; two brothers and a sister and three grandchildren.
      