
        Patric Walker, an English astrologer who brought a sense of style and sophistication to the daily horoscope, died on Sunday in his London apartment. He was 64.
        The cause was food poisoning, Mr. Walker's newspaper, The London Evening Standard, reported.
        Mr. Walker, whose horoscopes appeared for many years under the pen name Celeste, divided his time between London and Lindos, on the Greek island of Rhodes. He wrote a monthly column for Harpers and Queen magazine and a daily column for The Evening Standard and The Mail on Sunday that is syndicated in newspapers around the world.
        In the United States he reached more than 20 million readers. His daily column, which has been offered by The New York Times Syndicate since January 1994, is carried by more than 100 newspapers in the United States and Canada, including The New York Post. A weekly column appears in TV Guide.
        Mr. Walker's predictions showed a literary sense and an urbane outlook on life rare for the genre. Vicki Woods, the editor of Harpers and Queen, once said in an interview, "He's like a wise, slightly cynical friend, the kind you go to  for real advice, not upbeat, positive blah."
        Mr. Walker, a Libra, was born in Hackensack, N.J., where his parents had moved from Yorkshire. After the family returned to England, he grew up in Whitby, where he attended grammar school. He later joined the Royal Air Force, which trained him as an accountant and sent him to Pakistan.
        After completing his military service, he worked unhappily as an accountant in London. In 1960, he met an American astrologer named Helene Hoskins, whose powers of prediction impressed him. He enlisted as her apprentice and soon began writing for a women's magazine called Nova.
        In 1974, he took over Ms. Hoskins's "Celeste" column in the stylish Harpers and Queen. He later wrote for The Daily Mirror and Associated Newspapers, publishers of The Mail on Sunday and The Evening Standard. In 1991 he began publishing the column under his own name.
        He had a large and devoted following. The horoscope supplements that he contributed four times yearly for many years to The Mail on Sunday raised the newspaper's circulation by a quarter of a million copies.
        Because the hospital in Hackensack did not record the time of his birth, Mr.  Walker was never able to cast his own horoscope chart, something that did not seem to bother him. "I know where the sun is, I know where the moon is, I know my attributes and I know my failings," he once said. "That's enough for me."
        He had no survivors.
      