
        Arthur Benfield, a British detective who led the investigation of macabre child homicides known as the "moors murders" in England 30 years ago, died on Sept. 22 in a nursing home in Cheshire County in western England. He was 82.
        His death was reported on Thursday by The Times of London, which did not report its cause.
        Mr. Benfield was chief of the Criminal Investigation Department in Cheshire  when he directed 100 detectives in a seven-month investigation into the three killings. In 1966, Ian Brady, 28, a stock clerk, and Myra Hindley, 23, a typist, were convicted and sentenced to life in prison in the cases.
        The British public was horrified by revelations that the victims had been sexually abused before they were killed.
        As the critic Marilyn Stasio wrote in her column, Crime, in The New York Times Book Review last year, "All up and down the countryside where the Moors Murderers did their gruesome work, people still shudder at the hint of violence  against a child."
        On Saturday The Daily Telegraph cited Mr. Benfield's sleuthing in the case in these words: "It was Benfield who discovered -- in a brown leather wallet in Brady's car -- a detailed plan to dispose of a boy's body, and Benfield who led  detectives to two luggage receipts in the spine of Hindley's prayer book. The suitcases subsequently found at Manchester Central Station contained photographs and tape-recordings of the brutal murder of Lesley Ann Downey."
        Mr. Brady was found guilty of having killed Edward Evans, 17 -- whose body was found in the defendants' house in Cheshire on a tip from a relative of Miss  Hindley -- and two other victims whose bodies were located later: the 10-year-old Downey girl, whose body was buried not far away on Saddleworth Moor, and 12-year-old John Kilbride, whose body was near hers.
        Miss Hindley was found guilty of the deaths of the 17-year-old and the 10-year-old and of being an accessory after the fact in the death of 12-year-old.
        The British press has reported that the two killers confessed in 1987 to killing two other children, ages 16 and 12, but were not prosecuted; and that only one body had been found, on the same moor.
        Mr. Benfield was born in Ashton Upon Mersey, attended local schoools, joined  the Cheshire police in 1938 and retired in 1973.
      