
        William D. Campbell, a philanthropist and elder statesman of the Boy Scouts of America and World Scout Committee in Geneva, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88.
        Mr. Campbell took a special interest in furthering scouting in developing countries with programs tailored to local needs, not just transplanted.  That philosophy and his personal commitment saw a doubling of the Scouts' membership in the 1970's and 1980's, chiefly in the third world. In 1973, he was named honorary president of the world committee, which represents 25 million boys and girls in more than 200 countries and territories.
        The grandson of William Crapo Durant, a founder of General Motors, he graduated from the Hill School and Princeton University. A nature lover, he became a field associate of the American Museum of Natural History and over more than 10 years led six expeditions to Central Africa, adding to the museum's collections.
        He had joined the scouting movement at an early age -- he became an Eagle Scout in 1921 -- and returned to it in adult life at the suggestion of its British founder, Robert Baden-Powell.
        His travels convinced him that scouting could do much for the young people he had encountered. He played a role in the creation of the World Scout Foundation to secure financing, and was a life member of the board and past chairman. He also filled many volunteer positions in the Boy Scouts of America and was its international commissioner in the 1950's.
        He was on the executive committee of the Mystic Seaport Museum and a director of the National Audubon Society. He was a trustee of Lenox Hill Hospital, a founder and past chairman of the Woodland Foundation, and warden of St. John's Episcopal Church on Fishers Island, N.Y.
        Mr. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Margot Campbell Borgert of Bedford Hills, N.Y.; a sister, Edwina C. Sanger of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandchildren. His wife, Beatrice Hawn Campbell, died in 1987.
        Correction:  October 27, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about William D. Campbell, a New York philanthropist and elder statesman of the Scouting movement, misspelled his daughter's surname. She is Margot Bogert, not Borgert.
      