
        John Cairncross, the "Fifth Man" in a ring of British spies that gave Western secrets to the Soviet Union, died on Sunday at his home in the west of England.  He was 82.
        Mr. Cairncross, who had returned to Britain earlier this year after living since the 1950's in France, had suffered two strokes, the most recent a month ago, said Rupert Allason, a Member of Parliament who edited Mr. Cairncross's forthcoming memoirs.
        Mr. Cairncross was the least known of the famous spy ring, whose members met at Cambridge University in the late 1930's, and the last to die. He insisted that he worked independently of the others -- Guy Burgess, Harold (Kim) Philby,  Donald Maclean and Anthony Blunt -- and that he was motivated to pass information to the Soviet Union during World War II because he believed it would help defeat Hitler.
        Mr. Cairncross, who held a variety of positions in the British Government, came under suspicion in 1951 when notes he had written were found in Mr. Burgess's apartment just after Mr. Burgess fled to Moscow. Mr. Cairncross was interrogated but not charged, and was told to leave Britain and never return.
        After Mr. Blunt's participation in the spy ring was first discovered in 1964, Mr. Cairncross was again interrogated. He admitted spying, but said he had never passed Moscow any information harmful to Britain's interests. Again, British officials decided not to charge him.
        It was widely believed that there had been a fifth Soviet spy involved in the ring, but while there was widespread speculation about this identity, Mr. Cairncross was not positively identified as "the Fifth Man" until 1991, when he  was named by Yuri Modin, the former Soviet intelligence official who oversaw the activities of all five of the spies.
        Mr. Modin was later quoted as saying that Mr. Cairncross's information had gone well beyond helping in the effort against Hitler, and included early intelligence about nuclear weapons research by the United States and Britain. But Mr. Cairncross, in an interview with a British newspaper last month, said he was not a traitor.
        "There was a hard core of three and Kim Philby was associated with them," Mr. Cairncross told the newspaper, The Mail on Sunday. "Then there was me, who was a loner outside."
        "I hope this will put an end to the Fifth Man mystery," Mr. Cairncross said.  "I was promoted to become one of the Five after the Battle of Kursk in 1943. I had provided information which helped the Soviets to win that battle against the Germans."
        The information passed to Moscow by Mr. Cairncross was gleaned from his work  at Britain's communications-monitoring operation. He passed to the Soviets decoded German signals disclosing the location of Luftwaffe units.
        "The Russians regarded him as one of their Ring of Five in London because of  the quality of his information, but he saw himself as completely separate from Burgess, Blunt, Philby and Maclean," Mr. Allason told The Daily Telegraph.
        "He regarded himself as having given no information that had harmed British interests and believed that he had been entirely loyal to his country," Mr. Allason said. Mr. Allason added that Mr. Cairncross never belonged to the Communist Party and was skeptical of all organized politics.
        British newspapers reported that after British authorities decided not to prosecute Mr. Cairncross on espionage charges, he agreed to help them by providing identifications of Soviet personnel and other information.
        In addition to his work at the British communications-monitoring agency, Mr.  Cairncross worked in a variety of other government offices during and after the  war, including the Foreign Office, the Treasury and the Prime Minister's private office. He is believed to have continued spying until Mr. Burgess's discovery and flight in 1951, although Mr. Allason said he continued to refuse to provide  information that he felt might harm Britain.
        Mr. Cairncross was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1913.
        Like Mr. Burgess, Mr. Philby and Mr. Maclean, Mr. Cairncross was recruited into spying by Anthony Blunt, then a tutor at Cambridge, while studying at the university in the 1930's. He was a distinguished student, gaining degrees in French and German and scoring higher than any other applicant in his class on the Foreign Office exam.
        After being linked to Mr. Burgess in 1951, Mr. Cairncross lived in Italy and  France, working for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
        His first wife, Gabriella, from whom he had been separated for years, died in August. Last month he married his companion of recent years, Gayle Brinkerhoff,  39, an American opera singer.
      