
        Henry Roth, the novelist known for his masterpiece "Call It Sleep," an exact, unsparing portrait of the lives of poor Jewish immigrants in New York City in the early decades of this century, and then for experiencing perhaps the most mysterious career in modern American letters, died on Friday at Lovelace Hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 89 and had lived in Albuquerque for many years.
        The arc of Mr. Roth's career was unlike that of any of his contemporaries. He published "Call It Sleep" in 1934, when he was 28 years old. The novel, which traces the anguish of a small boy struggling to understand the painful complexities of his parents' marriage and the violent, bewildering nature of life on the Lower East Side, was well received when it was issued, garnering favorable reviews and selling 4,000 copies. It was rediscovered in the 1960's, and became a literary sensation. The book has been the recipient of considerable critical and popular interest since then (a paperback edition first issued in 1964 has now sold one million copies) and has come to be viewed, in the words of the critic Robert Alter in 1988, as "among the few great American novels of the 20th century."
        Mr. Roth attempted another novel after the publication of "Call It Sleep," abandoned it after writing 75 pages and lapsed into a silence that lasted for many decades. Mr. Roth's block was the topic of considerable speculation in the literary world, and he became almost as famous for it as he was for his legendary novel. He did not begin work on another novel until the 1970's, and did not publish any sustained work of fiction until 1994, when suddenly "A Star Shines Over Mt. Morris Park" was issued, six decades after the appearance of "Call It Sleep." The more recent work was the first of a series of six novels with the overall title of "Mercy of a Rude Stream," following the growth of Ira Stigman, Mr. Roth's protagonist, from childhood into adulthood, in New York City in the second and third decades of the century. A second volume, "A Diving Rock on the Hudson," was published in 1995. Robert Weil, Mr. Roth's editor at St. Martin's Press, said a third, "From Bondage," will be issued in 1996.
        Leonard Michaels, the novelist, observed that the emergence of a new Roth novel was like hearing that J.D. Salinger was preparing a sequel to "A Catcher in the Rye."
        Mr. Roth's depiction of the dark side of the immigrant experience -- the often bitter struggle to make a living, the lingering sense of loss, the struggle to adapt to a turbulent society dramatically unlike more ordered European communities -- was based on personal experience. He was born in 1906 in the province of Galicia, in what was then the Austro-Hungarian empire, and brought to the United States when he was 3 years old. His Yiddish- speaking parents settled on Manhattan's Lower East Side. In "Shifting Landscape," a collection of his short stories and essays that was published in 1987, Mr. Roth noted that the neighborhood was at that time "a virtual Jewish mini-state. All transactions, work and play were conducted in Yiddish. It never even occurred to me that I belonged there. I simply belonged. I was scarcely conscious of any more difference between my identity and that of my little companions than one drop of water is from another."
        In the first of the dislocations that came to characterize his life, Mr. Roth's family moved to an Irish and Italian neighborhood in Harlem, a departure that marked "the beginning and the end of my sense of belonging, and with it, my sense of identity." This feeling of isolation is reflected in the experiences of David Schearl, the child at the center of "Call It Sleep," who is fascinated by the language and rituals of the children in his neighborhood, but is almost always haunted by a feeling of being an outsider, subject to the unpredictable violence of the gangs of Irish and Italian children who surround him. The terrors he finds on the streets are mirrored by the uncertainty and abuse he finds at home, where his mother, described by Irving Howe as "one of the great women of American literature," attempts to protect David from the unpredictable rages and violence of his father.
        In 1927, at the age of 21, Mr. Roth, then a student at City College, met Eda Lou Walton, a poet, critic and academic 12 years his senior. Walton was the center of a literary circle that included Hart Crane, Louise Bogan, Margaret Mead and Kenneth Burke. He moved into her apartment in Greenwich Village, and she supported him while he wrestled with the novel that became "Call It Sleep." Mr. Roth noted in a 1987 interview that Ms. Walton "was a great admirer of talent, and she thought I had exceptional talent, even though, in those years, I hardly opened my mouth." Walton was both "a mistress and a mother. It was good, and it was bad. It was maybe good for the writer, but it was bad for the person. He fell in the habit of not being an independent, mature individual who was willing to face the world on his own." "Call It Sleep" was dedicated to her.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Roth joined the Communist Party. Despite his involvement in the cause, "Call It Sleep" was distinctly unlike the proletarian fiction being produced at that time. Influenced by the work of James Joyce, Mr. Roth mixed grim realism with the soaring imagination of his child protagonist, weaving together an extraordinary range of voices, from coarse street language to language that reaches visionary heights few other modern writers have attempted. One of the few negative reviews the book received was in the Communist journal The New Masses, which complained that it was "a pity that so many young writers drawn from the proletariat can make no better use of their working class experience than as material for introspective and febrile novels."
        The conflict between Mr. Roth's artistic instincts and his commitment to revolutionary change (he was once beaten up while attempting to distribute leaflets to longshoremen in New York) caused a further dislocation in his life. He attempted a second novel, a straightforward narrative of a worker's life, and while the editor Maxwell Perkins liked the pages he saw sufficiently to give Mr. Roth an advance, he soon after abandoned the book. "I didn't want to go on," Mr. Roth noted in an interview last year with Leonard Michaels in The New York Times Book Review. "Weeks passed, then months, then years, and a setback like that for a guy like me, it's enough to shut him up indefinitely."
        Mr. Roth and Ms. Walton ended their relationship in 1938. Later that year, he met Muriel Parker, a composer who had studied with Nadia Boulanger and Roger Sessions, at Yaddo, the artists' colony in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. They were married in 1939. Mr. Roth then began a series of blue-collar jobs that would occupy his time for the next three decades. He worked as a precision tool grinder in New York before he and his wife moved first to Boston and then, in 1946, to Maine. In 1987, he spoke of the many kinds of "hard work, plebeian work," that he did, "cutting pulp wood for the paper companies, raking blueberries for the canning companies," collecting sap for maple sugar and even spending four years "as a mental hospital attendant, wondering sometimes who should have the keys to the wards, he or the patients."
        In 1953, the Roths bought a small farm where he bred ducks and geese, making a living by selling their carcasses and feathers. He was still there in 1964, when the paperback reissue of "Call It Sleep" led to his rediscovery. The novel was reviewed by Irving Howe, on the front page of The New York Times Book Review. Mr. Howe praised the work both for a portrait of slum life "more authoritative than that of most slum novels" and for reaching, in the "transfiguring imagination of David . . . an obbligato of lyricism such as few American novels can match." "Call It Sleep" was, Mr. Howe stated, "one of the few genuinely distinguished novels written by a 20th-century American."
        The unexpected success of "Call It Sleep" 30 years after its original publication further complicated Mr. Roth's long struggle to go on writing. Suddenly both readers and publishers were asking for another book. In an interview given soon after the re-issue of the novel, he observed that, "When you get used to living like an average guy, you find it's not too bad. I was comfortable and then I was being dislodged all over again."
        While he had produced some short fiction over the decades since "Call It Sleep" had first been published, he could not find a way to define or shape any of the larger issues that still tantalized him. Speaking of those decades, Mr. Roth once said that it was "a time of real regret. It wasn't that I didn't want to write: the yearning to do so never left me. It was just that I feared I had all but dried up."
        Mr. Roth's waning loyalty to the Communist Party's definition of art certainly played a part, along with his struggle to adapt his changing perceptions to some fictional form. He noted in an interview that "I had become a different person from the one who had written 'Call It Sleep.' I'd had marriage, and raising kids and holding down jobs."
        The event that Mr. Roth credited with having the most profound impact on breaking his silence was the outbreak of the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. He found his allegiance to the Communist Party, which supported the Arabs, "impossible to sustain." "I felt," Mr. Roth told Mr. Michaels last year, "as if I were personally under attack." He had also begun to feel, according to the interview, "that he was 'heading back to being a Jew.' He said it wasn't a 'return' to his religion, but rather a 'rational reunion' with Judaism, or his earliest self, and that it coincided with 'a slowly awakening desire to write again.' "
        He came to view Israel, as he noted in a speech in 1987, as a "place where the Jewish writer can live his entire life with a sense of belonging -- and a chance of maintaining his identity intact." Mr. Roth continued, noting that while a writer "may disagree with the majority of people in his native land, still, the language, the people themselves, the customs, the landscape, the sense of belonging remain the same. He -- or she -- will not suffer the anguished dislocation, the discontinuity, of those of us in the Diaspora who once felt -- and lost -- a deep sense of belonging and the identity that stemmed from it."
        The success of "Call It Sleep" allowed the Roths to leave Maine and travel. After living briefly in Mexico they settled in Albuquerque, N.M. Mrs. Roth began to compose again, and Mr. Roth worked more persistently at his writing. But he did not begin the extraordinary project that became "Mercy of a Rude Stream" (the title is a line from Shakespeare) until 1979. Despite increasingly severe medical problems caused by progressive rheumatoid arthritis, over the next decade he produced some 3,500 pages of manuscript, a series of six related novels that, while not a direct continuation of "Call It Sleep," share many qualities with that earlier work.
        Like "Call It Sleep," the novels are set in New York City, and follow the increasingly complex efforts of one individual to find some sense of certainty in a turbulent world. The protagonist of the novels, Ira Stigman, is three years older than David Schearl when the series begins. But he is not a continuation of David -- he is far less innocent, more fascinated by the manner in which his mind works, already toying with the idea of becoming a writer.
        "Mercy of a Rude Stream" also departed stylistically from "Call It Sleep." Ira appears in the narrative both as the young man making his way and as an old man, looking back from a very great distance to his youth, attempting to write the narrative of his life and discover the forces behind events that shaped it. The aged Ira muses frequently on the failures in his life; his long battles to recover the sustaining insights of his childhood, his many attempts to find a form for his art. In both "Call It Sleep" and the novels that compose "Mercy of a Rude Stream," Mr. Roth drew frequently on autobiographical elements, both large and small, and his use of them created and sustained a long debate among critics about the extent to which his work is lightly fictionalized autobiography.
        But while he admitted that to him writing was in part about rendering "a landscape of the self," as he related in a letter, he repeatedly made the point that while his own life provided the inspiration for his fiction there were significant differences between the two. Mr. Weil, Mr. Roth's editor, has noted that, "Henry said he used events from his own life -- but only as the raw material from which he created fiction."
        Despite his crippling arthritis, Mr. Roth persisted in his work. A word processor allowed him to keep writing. After decades of struggling to find a way to write, his last years were devoted to the battle to keep writing, to create one of the most exact portraits in modern American literature of the immigrant experience.
        Mr. Roth's wife, Muriel, died in 1990. He is survived by two sons, Jeremy, of Toronto and Hugh, of Queens; a sister, Rose Broder of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      