
        Elton M. Hyder Jr., a onetime Texas lawyer who amassed an extensive collection of legal paraphernalia while joining his wife in even more extensive social, cultural and philanthropic pursuits, died on Tuesday at his home in Fort Worth. He was 75, and according to his family was the last surviving prosecutor at the Japanese war crime trials.
        His wife, Martha, said the cause was heart failure.
        As the husband of a wealthy oil field heiress known as Fort Worth's undisputed social arbiter and the driving force behind the city's Van Cliburn piano festival and other civic ventures, Mr. Hyder was largely relieved of the day-to-day burdens of making a living.
        Unfortunately for any inclinations he may have had toward a life of total ease, by the time he met and married the daughter of Charles Rowan, the founder of the Rowan Oil Drilling Company, he had developed such a devotion to the law and such a voracious appetite for work that he found it impossible to change.
        It was his work ethic, his son Elton 3d noted yesterday, that led to his father's appointment in 1945 as the youngest prosecutor at the Japanese war crime trials.
        A graduate of the University of Texas and its law school whose subsequent Navy service in 1943 was cut short by a bout with malaria, Mr. Hyder had already become the youngest assistant attorney general in Texas history in 1944.
        When the Attorney General, Grover Sellers, discovered that his shavetail assistant had taken over half the cases in the office, he became so impressed both with the volume and the quality of the young man's work that he recommended him to his Texas buddy, Tom Clark, the Attorney General of the United States, who named him to the war crimes prosecution team the next year.
        Mr. Hyder, far younger than his colleagues, supervised the Manchurian invasion phase of the case against Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was hanged in 1948.
        Mr. Hyder's marriage in 1947 changed his circumstances considerably, as he discovered when his father-in-law happened to mention that his daughter would continue to receive an allowance several times Mr. Hyder's salary.
        An inveterate collector, Mr. Hyder specialized in legal paraphernalia, assembling the largest private collection, whose more than 9,000 items range from old wigs and royal documents to portraits of English jurists.
        Known as a warm and witty man who could evoke a laugh in any company, Mr. Hyder, who spent much of his married life in perpetual bemusement at his wife's frenetic projects, earned special distinction simply by holding his own.
        Mrs. Hyder explained yesterday why as a wealthy, fun-loving 18-year-old college girl she abandoned her plans for a footloose future to marry a hard-working lawyer she met on a blind date.
        "He was the most charismatic man I've ever known," she said. "I knew he was special."
        In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Hyder is survived by another son, Brent, and a daughter, Whitney More, both of Fort Worth; two sisters, Patricia Horne of Fort Worth and Mary Cale of Hilton Head, S.C., and seven grandchildren.
      