
        Henry Roth, who in 1934 wrote "Call It Sleep," a novel acclaimed as an American classic for its powerful portrayal of a Jewish immigrant boy struggling to survive in the slums of the Lower East Side, died yesterday at Lovelace Hospital in Albuquerque, N.M.
        He was 89 years old and had lived in Albuquerque in recent years, said a son, Jeremy.
        When "Call It Sleep" was first published, Lewis Gannett, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, predicted that because of the stark way the book described life on the Lower East Side, it would not be very popular. But he thought that anyone who read it would "remember it and talk about it and watch excitedly" for the author's next book.
        In fact, the book was much discussed and readers did indeed wonder what Mr. Roth would do next. But for 60 years, he wrote nothing major. There was never anything approaching "Call It Sleep." There wasn't even another novel. For all his gifts and promise, Mr. Roth fell silent for years. After "Call It Sleep" was published, he began to work on a second novel tentatively entitled "If We Had Bacon." What happened to it as a creative work remains unclear. It was not published.
        However, in 1994, at the age of 87, Mr. Roth did come forth with another major work of fiction, called "A Star Shines Over Mt. Morris Park." It was a novel, but not a complete one. Mr. Roth envisioned it as merely the first installment of what was reported as a 3,200-page autobiographical novel he called "Mercy of a Rude Stream." The book was supposed to pick up where "Call It Sleep" left off. It was not well received.
        Robert Alter, reviewing it for The New York Times Book Review, said that many of the passages "read more like journal entries than integral elements of a novel." He praised Mr. Roth as an "admirable craftsman" but said the work lacked "novelistic tension."
        "Call It Sleep" thus remained unrivaled as a novel and the short stories he turned out did not attract much attention. What was of more interest to the literati was what happened to Mr. Roth over the years.
        For a decade or so after "Call It Sleep" was published, Mr. Roth worked as a laborer laying pipes and maintaining streets, as a substitute teacher of Latin and mathematics, as a precision tool grinder, and then, in the 1950's, as an attendant at a state hospital in Maine. For 10 years after that he stayed on in Maine, raising ducks and geese on the three-acre farm his family bought in 1949 on the outskirts of Augusta.
        In later life, Mr. Roth tended to link his failure to write to his dedicated belief in Marxism, saying it tended to make him "overly conscious" of his identity as a writer. And when his proletarian novel did not get beyond the first section, he found himself unable to write much of anything else.
        "My will was gone, broken by this first failure," he later said.
        In 1964, "Call It Sleep" was published in paperback by Avon Books and went on to sell more than a million copies.
        Over the years, the critical acclaim for the book grew. Irving Howe, who reviewed the 1964 edition for The New York Times Book Review, said, "At the end of a novel like 'Call It Sleep,' one has lived through a completeness of rendered life, and all one need do is silently acknowledge its truth."
        Henry Roth was born Feb. 8, 1906, in Tysmenica, Galicia, in what came to be called Ukraine. His father, a waiter, emigrated to the United States and called his wife to join him after he had established himself. Young Henry and his mother landed in New York in 1907.
        The Roths lived first in Brownsville, Brooklyn, then moved to the Lower East Side, which was then largely Jewish. In 1914, they moved again, this time to a part of Harlem that was home to many Irish and Italian families.
        Henry Roth graduated from De Witt Clinton High School in 1924 and entered City College. A year later he wrote his first piece, "Impressions of a Plumber," for an English course. His instructor arranged for its publication in the City College literary magazine, Lavender.
        Eda Lou Walton, who taught English at City College, invited him to stay in her house in Greenwich Village, which was something of a gathering place for the literary lights of the day, among them Mark Van Doren and Margaret Mead. Mr. Roth lived there for the four years that it took to create "Call It Sleep," and he dedicated the book to Professor Walton. Mr. Roth and Ms. Walton ended their relationship in 1938. He went to live in Yaddo, the artists' colony in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where he met Muriel Parker, a composer. They were married in 1939.
        But Mr. Roth was unable to establish himself as an independent writer. One of his short stories, "Broker," was published by The New Yorker in 1939. Another, "Somebody Always Grabs the Purple," appeared in Coronet magazine in 1940. He published only a few other stories in his lifetime; one of them, an autobiographical work called "The Wrong Place," appeared in The New Orleans Review in 1978.
        In the early 1980's, Mario Materassi, a professor at the University of Florence who had translated "Call It Sleep" into Italian, persuaded Mr. Roth to put his writings into a collection. The result was "Shifting Landscape." Morris Dickstein, reviewing it for The New York Times Book Review in 1987, called it "an engrossing meditation on the creative process."
        Mr. Roth is survived by two sons, Jeremy of Toronto and Hugh of Queens; a sister, Rose Broder, of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      