
        Dr. Theron G. Randolph, a maverick allergist who founded the field of environmental medicine that holds that countless illnesses and allergies are the result of exposure to everyday and often commonplace chemical poisons, died on Friday in Delnor Community Hospital in Geneva, Ill.  He was 89 and lived in Batavia, Ill.
        The cause was pneumonia, said officials at the Randolph Clinic, which Dr. Randolph founded in North Aurora, Ill.
        Dr. Randolph and several hundred doctors in the American Academy of Environmental Medicine contend that noxious chemical vapors from a wide variety of seemingly harmless materials like plastic, foam insulation and treated clothing release substances that can have devastating physical and mental effects on particularly susceptible people.
        Symptoms of what Dr. Randolph and his colleagues referred to as environmental illness included chronic headaches, fatigue and mental depression.
        Traditional medical bodies like the American College of Allergy and Immunology, which contended there was no scientific basis for his approach, are sharply skeptical of Dr. Randolph's unorthodox therapies.
        An allergist who received a traditional, blue-chip medical training, Dr. Randolph broke with organized medicine in 1950 and created several environmentally controlled units in the country, including the Aurora, Ill., clinic, where patients could seek protection from what they viewed as a potentially lethal environment.
        In some places, patients under Dr. Randolph's direction built homes in the wilderness to escape urban contamination. They would eat or expose themselves to nothing that was not considered environmentally benign.
        On occasion, such communities would attract patients who also suffered from delusions, critics pointed out.
        But as he marked his retirement from active medicine in 1992, Dr. Randolph seemed to relish tweaking his opponents. "They regard me as a renegade," he said. "Let them laugh, I'll take their patients."
        After nearly half a century of offering his brand of medicine, Dr. Randolph found himself sitting atop a nationwide group of doctors and patients who embraced the concept of environmental illness.
        In Dr. Randolph's words, his patients had bodies designed for the Stone Age made to cope with the Space Age and all of its environmentally harmful elements. As a result, he said, they suffered diseases from maladaptation, and his solution often was to weed out and banish the offending substance or, as in some cases, provide varying amounts of the harmful substance until a patient achieved a healthy tolerance.
        Traditional allergists question whether there is such a thing as an environmental allergy. They maintain that chemicals do not cause the same physiological reactions as classic allergens like pollen.
        Dr. Martha White, director of research at the Institute for Asthma and Allergy at Washington Hospital Center, Washington, said, "The issue of being allergic to the environment is viewed with skepticism and is unproven."
        But small but discernible shift in attitude toward the issue of chemical sensitivity. In 1991, a workshop of the National Academy of Sciences agreed on a definition, designating as a syndrome cases in which patients react to chemicals at levels far lower than what what is normally tolerated.
        Dr. Randolph wrote several books, including "Human Ecology and Susceptibility to the Chemical Environment" and "An Alternative Approach to Allergies."
        He graduated from the University of Michigan Medical School and was a research fellow in allergy and immunology at the Harvard Medical School. He was a faculty member at the Northwestern University Medical School before, as he put, he was forced out because of his unorthodox teaching.
        Dr. Randolph is survived by his wife, Janet; three sons, Jonathan, Wardner and Bruce; a brother; two sisters, and two grandchildren.
      