
        Robert F. Finch, who managed Richard M. Nixon's 1960 Presidential campaign and was later his Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a White House counselor, died on Tuesday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. Mr. Finch had observed his 70th birthday a day earlier.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his daughter Priscilla.
        Mr. Finch, an influential Republican strategist, was the Lieutenant Governor of California when his longtime friend Mr. Nixon made him the youngest member of his Cabinet by naming him to be the nation's eighth Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare when he was 43.
        But Mr. Finch's tenure ended in June 1970 amid general agreement that the personable, liberal Cabinet officer lacked influence with the President and did not command the allegiance of many of his department's employees.
        Mr. Nixon replaced Mr. Finch with Under Secretary of State Elliot L.  Richardson and announced that Mr. Finch could serve him better as a Cabinet-rank counselor to the President. "I have asked him to come here," Mr. Nixon said at the White House. "I need him."
        But it was Mr. Finch's curse and blessing that he was frozen out of Mr. Nixon's inner circle by H. R. Haldeman, the President's chief of staff, and John D. Ehrlichman, Mr. Nixon's domestic adviser, and others like them who became enmeshed in the Watergate scandals.
        Mr. Finch was never implicated in Watergate, but his long, close identification with Mr. Nixon effectively tainted a political career. "I couldn't run for dog catcher without it turning into a referendum on Watergate," Mr. Finch said in a 1974 interview. "But at least I don't have any trouble sleeping at night."
        Still, he yearned to win a seat in the United States Senate. In 1976, he ran for the Republican nomination but lost in the primary to S. I. Hayakawa.
        For all practical purposes, the defeat ended a life of engagement in politics that was nurtured by Mr. Finch's father, Robert, a Republican who was elected to the predominantly Democratic Arizona Legislature.
        Robert Hutchinson Finch (Hutchinson was the maiden name of his mother, Gladys) was born on Oct. 9, 1925 in Tempe, Ariz.
        In 1932, his family moved to Inglewood, Calif. While a political science major at Occidental College, he organized Young Republican Clubs at more than a dozen colleges, efforts that brought him to the attention of the Republican National Committee.
        On graduation in 1947 Mr. Finch left for Washington as an administrative assistant to Representative Norris Poulson, whose successful campaign he had assisted. In Washington, Mr. Finch met a 34-year-old freshman Representative named Richard Nixon.
        Partly on Mr. Nixon's advice, Mr. Finch returned to California to study law at the University of Southern California and received his law degree in 1951.
        In 1952 and 1954, he made strong but unsuccessful runs for Congress from a heavily Democratic district. From 1956 to 1958, he was chairman of the Republican Central Committee of Los Angeles, and in 1958 he returned to Washington as Vice President Nixon's administrative assistant. Mr. Nixon was preparing for what would be an unsuccessful campaign for the Presidency against John F. Kennedy in 1960.
        And even though Mr. Nixon disregarded Mr. Finch's advice and ran for governor of California against Edmund G. (Pat) Brown Sr. in 1962, the two remained close associates after Mr. Nixon's defeat, while many other loyalists distanced themselves from him.
        Mr. Finch managed George Murphy's upset victory in the Senate race against Pierre Salinger in 1964 and was elected California's Lieutenant Governor in 1966 with a huge majority.
        While exercising a moderating influence on the newly elected Governor, Ronald Reagan, Mr. Finch was advising Mr. Nixon in the campaigns that won him the Republican Presidential nomination and election to the White House in 1968.
        After Mr. Finch's defeat in the 1976 Republican Senate primary, he began to devote himself to the private practice of law in Pasadena. At the time of his death, he was partly retired.
        Mr. Finch is survived by his wife, the former Carol Crothers; one son, Kevin, of Irvine, Calif.; three daughters, Maureen Finch Shaw of Seattle, Priscilla Finch of Pasadena and Cathleen Finch Morser of Glastonbury, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      