
        Jack D. Weiler, a rabbi's son who left his imprint on the landscape through real estate development and on mankind through philanthropy, died yesterday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 91.
        In the realm of business, Mr. Weiler was a founder and the chairman emeritus of Swig, Weiler & Arnow, a Manhattan real estate development and management company whose nationwide holdings encompass an area roughly equivalent to three Empire State Buildings -- some five million square feet of commercial space in New York City, more than 1.5 million feet in California and other space elsewhere.
        In New York City, the firm's properties, housing prominent corporate and retail tenants, include the sloping Grace Building at 1114 Avenue of the Americas at 42d Street; the flagship building of the women's sportswear industry at 1411 Broadway at 39th Street; 1065 Avenue of the Americas, also known as 111 West 40th Street, a 537,000-square-foot building overlooking Bryant Park; and 711 Third Avenue at 44th Street, a 515,000-square-foot building that was the first modern skyscraper on the thoroughfare.
        But business was Mr. Weiler's secondary concern. "Philanthropy comes first, ahead of my business," he said in an interview at his Grace Building office in 1984.
        His desk was piled high with letters of congratulation, many expressing gratitude for his gifts. He would not say how much of his wealth he had given to charity, but the extent of his philanthropy was measurable in other ways.
        For example, Einstein Hospital in the Bronx was renamed Jack D. Weiler Hospital in 1985. Mr. Weiler had served as chairman of the board of overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and guided the university through a period of dynamic growth as a member of its board, beginning in 1976.
        Also in 1985, a new community of more than 2,000 homes and 5,000 residents on the southern ridge of Jerusalem was renamed Kiryat Jack Weiler because of his support for Israel and his ability to coax others to help it as well. As chairman of the Housing Committee of the Jewish Agency for Israel, he brought together the people, institutions and millions of dollars to erect some 12,000 apartment units for 50,000 immigrants in all parts of Israel.
        The Bezalel Academy of Arts in Jerusalem was renamed the Jack D. Weiler College of Architecture. Ben Gurion University of the Negev has its Weiler-Arnow Medical Education Building. The Jerusalem College of Technology named its yeshiva for Mr. Weiler's father, Faivel.
        Mr. Weiler was a leader in such organizations as the United Jewish Appeal, Israel Bonds and the American Joint Distribution Committee.
        He was national treasurer, member of the national executive committee and president of the Century Club of the State of Israel Bonds Organization. He was honorary president and former president and chairman of the board of directors of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital and a member of the boards of Montefiore Medical Center and the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. He was a founder and president of the Realty Foundation of Greater New York, which makes grants to needy members of the real estate profession.
        Raising funds and helping others, Mr. Weiler traveled the country and the world.
        With regard to fund raising, he once said: "We only go after the fellows who've got it to give, and each year we try to make them give a little bit more. I don't ask them to give up any luxuries, because they're wealthy anyway. And if they complain about a bad business year, I point out to them that they should think of their profits in previous years and figure it from there.
        "I tell them that you can't take it with you, that once you're stretched out in a box, your hands are always open, not closed."
        Mr. Weiler knew what it was to be poor. He was born in Svitskoy, a village in the Ukraine where he shared a one-and-a-half room house with his parents and nine brothers and sisters. His father, a Talmudic scholar who devoted most of his time to training future rabbis, educated his children at home.
        The family traveled to the United States in steerage in 1910. They settled first in Manhattan, where they earned extra money sewing ribbons into corsets, and later they moved to the Bronx, where Rabbi Weiler taught yeshiva students.
        Mr. Weiler, who was the 7th of 10 children, supported himself through high school by working at odd jobs, including stuffing envelopes at a mail order house. The lack of money forced him to leave college in his freshman year. He found work as a stenographer in a real estate office, became a broker and eventually went into business for himself. In 1936, with a handshake, Mr. Weiler and Benjamin H. Swig of Boston founded what became a nationwide business.
        Mr. Weiler is survived by his wife of 68 years, the former Doris Person; a son, Alan Weiler, and a daughter, Joan Arnow, both of Scarsdale, N.Y.; seven grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 16, 1995, Monday
        A picture credit on Saturday with the obituary of Jack D. Weiler, philanthropist and real estate developer, carried an incorrect date. The picture was made in 1985, not 1965.
      