
        Robert F. Korns, an epidemiologist and former assistant commissioner of the New York State Department of Health who helped direct the nationwide field trial of the Salk polio vaccine during the early 1950's, died on Oct. 3, a day before his 83d birthday. He lived in Glenmont, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Julianne Kelly.
        In taped memoirs recorded for his family, Dr. Korns recalled his involvement in testing the polio vaccine as the pinnacle of his career. At the time it was the widest immunization study ever attempted, with 1.8 million subjects in 43 states. Dr. Korns was responsible for traveling across the country to evaluate the vaccine's effectiveness.
        His role had particular personal poignancy, because he had grown up watching his older sister Mary suffer the debilitating effects of the disease. Robert Korns was born in 1912 in Tian, China, where his father, Dr. John H. Korns, worked for the Rockefeller Foundation.
        Four years later, the family moved to Beijing, where his father helped found the Peking Union Medical College, and his mother, Bess Pennywitt Korns, founded the Peking Institute of Fine Arts. They lived in Beijing until 1926 when they moved to Switzerland, where his sister was receiving treatment for polio.
        Back in the United States, Robert Korns graduated from Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H., in 1934, and later from the School of Hygiene and Public Health at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore with a medical degree and a doctoral degree in public health.
        While working for the New York State Health Department, where he became chief of the division of communicable diseases and later assistant commissioner, Dr. Korns wrote two important papers, one on psittacosis, a bird disease that can be transmitted to humans, the other on an epidemic of keratoconjunctivitis at the General Electric Company plant in Schenectady, N.Y. Those papers won him a nomination to the American Epidemiological Society, of which he was later elected secretary and president and where he met Dr. Jonas Salk. He retired in 1975.
        He is survived by five children: Julianne Kelly of Tarrytown, N.Y.; Nancy K. Dryden of Palmer, Alaska; Thomas H. Korns of Arlington, Va.; Stephen C. Korns of Manhattan; Robert F. Korns Jr. of Los Gatos, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      