
        Finbar Devine, a police sergeant who strutted and pranced up Fifth Avenue while leading kilted Irish bagpipers in the St. Patrick's Day Parade for 35 consecutive years, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 65 and lived in the Midwood section of Brooklyn.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Sergeant Devine began leading the New York City Police Department's Emerald Society Pipes and Drums in 1960. The bagpipers' funereal wails help honor officers killed in the line of duty. The pipers also play at numerous dinners, concerts and parades, culminating each year in the St. Patrick's Day Parade.
        For many who thronged along the parade route, Sergeant Devine epitomized the celebration. A lanky 6 feet 4 inches, and wearing a foot-high busby festooned with ostrich feathers, he seemed to tower over marchers as he led the 85 pipers.
        Spectators would cheer when he brought the pipers to a halt with his signature sidestep strut.
        Irish to his very fiber, Sergeant Devine was a founder and former director of the Emerald Society, a fraternal organization of police officers of Irish descent.
        Officer Kevin McCarthy, the piper's assistant bandmaster, recalled what Sergeant Devine regarded as his headiest moment, when the pipers played for Pope John Paul II during his 1979 visit to New York.
        "It was pouring rain, and as the Pope was leaving Battery Park, Sergeant Devine held up his mace to the sky and commanded the rain to stop," he said. "And wouldn't you know, it stopped raining. He recalled that as his most memorable performance."
        Sergeant Devine grew up in the Inwood section of Manhattan and joined the Police Department after attending New York University. His home is brimming with the decorations and awards he received before retiring in 1985.
        Sergeant Devine is survived by his wife, Patricia; a son, Finbar Derek; and three brothers, Patrick, of San Pedro, Calif.; Matthew, of New York City, and the Rev. Kevin A. Devine, C.S.P., of Good Shepherd Church in Manhattan.
      