
        Charles G. Gomillion, who led the fight that brought political power to the black majority in Tuskegee, Ala., with the assistance of a landmark Supreme Court case that bears his name, died on Oct. 4 at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala. He was 95 and until his recent return to Tuskegee had lived the last 25 years in Washington and Roebling, N.J.
        Mr. Gomillion, a native of Edgefield, S.C., had a long and distinguished career as a sociology professor and dean at Tuskegee University, but it was his  role as a civic leader that made Charles Goode Gomillion a footnote to constitutional legal history in 1960.
        As the president of the Tuskegee Civic Association, an organization he had helped found in 1941, he was the lead plaintiff in a suit that successfully challenged a blatant act of gerrymandering designed to exclude all but a handful of black voters from municipal elections.
        Alarmed by a voter registration drive led by Mr. Gomillion's organization, the Alabama Legislature redrew the town's boundaries in 1957, leaving Tuskegee University and all but a handful of black families outside the city limits.
        What had been a perfect square was now a 28-sided figure that some likened to a snake and others to a sea dragon. Whatever the trope, the lines had been so skillfully drawn that although as many as 12 black voters remained inside a city that once had 5,400 black residents, not a single one of the city's 1,310 white  residents had been excluded.
        Mr. Gomillion and 11 other association members filed Federal suit seeking to  bar Mayor Philip M. Lightfoot and other city officials from enforcing the state  statute on the ground that it was a transparent effort to circumvent the 15th Amendment's voting guarantees. Two lower courts, citing a 1946 Supreme Court opinion by Justice Felix Frankfurter, ruled that such state action was beyond judicial review.
        When the case, Gomillion v. Lightfoot, came before the Supreme Court in 1960, Justice Frankfurter, describing the new configuration as "an uncouth 28-sided figure," found otherwise, and so did all eight of his colleagues.
        Deftly distinguishing Gomillion from the 1946 case, which involved Congressional districts of unequal population in Illinois, Justice Frankfurter said the Tuskegee case involved "affirmative action" by a legislature that "singled out a readily isolated segment of a racial minority for special discriminatory treatment."
        He and seven other justices said that a statute that had the effect of disenfranchising black voters would be a violation of the 15th Amendment. Justice Charles E. Whittaker, suggesting that there would be no disenfranchisement since the excluded former Tuskegee residents could vote in county elections, said it would instead be a violation of the 14th Amendment.
        The case was sent back to District Court and the next year Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr. declared the statute was indeed unconstitutional.
        The former city limits were restored and within years the black majority had  taken over both the city and county governments, much to the consternation of Mr. Gomillion, who served for a while on the school board.
        A soft-spoken moderate who had worked quietly to enlist the support of liberal-minded white allies in Tuskegee, he was dismayed when a plan to integrate local schools was sabotaged by Gov. George C. Wallace. The Governor ordered the schools closed, creating such rancor that white residents created a  private school, black radicals swept Mr. Gomillion and other moderates aside and in turn white families fled. Today, only a handful of white families remain in Tuskegee.
        As his dream of a truly integrated community, with black and white leaders working together for the common good, died, Mr. Gomillion, who retired from Tuskegee in 1970, left, too.
        Although his moderate approach was rejected by a majority of the black voters, at least one of the former radicals now regrets it.
        "The man was right," Otis Pinkard said yesterday, recalling that he had once  led the faction that opposed the Gomillion approach. "We should not have run all the white families out of town."
        Mr. Gomillion is survived by a daughter, Gwendolyn Chaires of Roebling; three grandchildren; three great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild.
      