
        Fred Fehl, a dance and theater photographer who helped revolutionize American theatrical photography, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 89.
        The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Margaret.
        Known for his vivid imagery, Mr. Fehl was a pioneer of what he termed "performance photography." When he arrived in New York from his native Vienna in 1939, it was customary for photographers to document a production by carefully positioning its cast at special photo sessions. The results, though often beautiful, could also look stilted.
        Mr. Fehl, in contrast, used rapid-fire cameras to preserve the vitality of performances. The director Elia Kazan once said that Mr. Fehl was the first photographer to "capture the scenes I directed in the theater on film with the precision of the living moment."
        Between 1940 and 1970, when he retired from theatrical photography, Mr. Fehl photographed nearly 1,000 Broadway and Off Broadway productions. He was the New York City Opera's photographer from 1944 to 1980. In 1976, when an exhibition honoring him was held at the Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center, he chose the 450 shots used in the show from an archive of more than 100,000 photographs.
        Mr. Fehl's abiding love was dance, especially ballet, and he continued to photograph ballet long after he had given up theatrical and operatic photography. His work constitutes a pictorial history of American dance since the 40's and traces the growth of such troupes as American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet and the Joffrey Ballet.
        Photographs by him from publications including The New York Times, Dance Magazine, The Dancing Times, Life, Look, Time, Newsweek and Theater Arts were gathered together in several volumes, including "On Broadway," "Stars of the American Ballet Theater" and "Stars of the Ballet and Dance in Performance Photographs."
        Perhaps the most unusual of his books is "Giselle and Albrecht: American Ballet Theater's Romantic Lovers," a collaboration with the dance writer Doris Hering. Its text and photos compare the interpretations of the great dancers -- among them Alicia Markova, Alicia Alonso, Carla Fracci, Natalia Makarova, Erik Bruhn, Igor Youskevitch, Mikhail Baryshnikov and Anton Dolin -- who starred in Ballet Theater's production of "Giselle" from the company's founding in 1940 to 1981, when the book was published.
        Mr. Fehl inherited his passion for the performing arts from his father, a music-loving dentist, and photography was his childhood hobby. As an adult, Mr. Fehl became a textile salesman, yet also photographed actors and musicians. He fled Vienna when the Nazis took control of Austria in 1938, and after a short stay in London, moved to New York. There, in 1940, he managed to receive enough assignments to make photography his profession. That year, he also married Margaret Kopekin, a pianist and music teacher.
        Other exhibitions of Mr. Fehl's photographs have been held at Columbia University, the Philadelphia Art Alliance, the University of Ohio and the New York City Center. In 1974 he received the Certificate of Merit from the Society of Publications Designers.
        His wife is his only survivor.
      