
        Dr. James Roswell Gallagher, a specialist on teen-age health who is credited  with shaping adolescent medicine into a recognized discipline, died on Friday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 92.
        Called upon in 1951 by Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston, he organized the country's first comprehensive medical section caring for patients  12 to 21 years of age. He retired in 1967 as clinical professor of pediatrics and chief of the center's adolescent unit, and, in 1972, as clinical professor of pediatrics at Yale University School of Medicine.
        Dr. Gallagher, a native of New Haven, graduated from Yale College and Yale Medical School. After completing his training 1932, he became the school doctor  at the Hill School in Pottstown, Pa., and soon noticed that his charges suffered from afflictions beyond routine medical diagnosis and treatment.
        Among the troublesome conditions Dr. Gallagher recognized among young patients were contagious diseases, athletic injuries, psychological and behavioral problems, growth and glandular abnormalities, bad nutrition and obesity, acne and anemia, as well as reading and academic difficulties.
        He subsequently served as the doctor at Phillips Academy at Andover, Mass., and Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and established a solid reputation as an expert dealing with young people. By then, the doctors at Children's Medical Center, too, had come to the conclusion that traditional medicine had a  gap in that area.
        Some scattered studies of conditions unique to adolescents had been conducted since the late 1800's, but until 1951 there was no adolescent medicine as such,  and teen-agers were treated as either children or adults. Thus, after 82 years of tending to infants and children, the Children's Hospital Medical Center appointed Dr. Gallagher to create its adolescent unit to give special care to teen-agers.
        His unit grew rapidly, and in its first years a large percentage of the patients were referred from outside the Boston area. By 1968, more than 50 adolescent clinics and wards were operating in the United States and abroad, with staffs often trained by Dr. Gallagher and his assistants.
        He frequently wrote and spoke about his experiences. His books included "Sex  and the Adolescent" (Dial), a guide for young people and their parents, and "Emotional Problems of Adolescents" (Oxford University Press), both published in 1958.
        His multidisciplinary unit was renamed the division of adolescent/ young adult medicine in 1978. It broadened its services to include the treatment of eating disorders, gynecological problems and chronic illness.
        Dr. Gallagher is survived by his wife, Constance Dann Gallagher, and a grandson.
      