
        Louis Malle, the eclectic French director of films including "Pretty Baby," "Lacombe, Lucien," "Atlantic City," "My Dinner With Andre" and "Au Revoir les Enfants," died on Thursday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 63.
        The cause was lymphoma, said Pat Kingsley, press representative for Mr. Malle's wife, the actress Candice Bergen.
        There is no single Malle look or sound, nor is there a single, continuing Malle preoccupation to match the extravagant self-absorption of a director like  Federico Fellini, Vincent Canby concluded when he was the chief film critic of The New York Times. "Instead," Mr. Canby wrote, "there is something far more elusive that connects each succeeding Malle film to the ones that preceded it. That is best described as a combination of things -- a strong streak of romanticism, a clear-eyed, almost scientific curiosity about the behavior of individuals and the nature of their relationship with each other and the world they inhabit, a comic skepticism about all things most of us take for granted, including sexual mores."
        Mr. Malle did not consider himself a born film maker, and he worked hard to master the art. He regarded himself always as an outsider, and the characters he created frequently seemed to be outsiders, too: characters gazing out windows, peeping through Venetian blinds, being unvarnished voyeurs. For him, his craft was an exercise in voyeurism.
        His films often reflected his fascination with big suspended moments when something is going to happen and things are not going to be the same. Thus "Lacombe, Lucien" depicts a France caught between Occupation and liberation; "Murmurs of the Heart" traces a delicate transistion from adolescence to maturity; "Pretty Baby" relates the story of a child prostitute whose coming of  age coincides with the closing down of the red-light district of New Orleans, and "Atlantic City" explores the city when the elegant old hotels were coming down and the flashy new casinos were going up.
        If Mr. Malle had a knack for catching the spirit and the habits of ordinary people, his pedigree was anything but ordinary. He was born in Thumeries in northern France, one of seven children of Francoise Beghin and Pierre Malle. His mother, whom he described as "an extremely conventional woman" who went to Mass  "every day of her life," was the heir to a fortune derived from sugar.
        Young Louis had all the advantages great wealth can bring. As a boy, he summered in Ireland and became fluent in English. Indeed, there were times in his later life when, he said, English seemed to come easier to him than French.  His Jesuit-run school in Paris was rigorous.
        In 1944, with Paris a likely objective of Allied forces determined to liberate it from German Occupation, he was sent to a Catholic boarding school in nearby Fontainebleau, seemingly a safer place. It was run by Carmelite monks who were active in the Resistance. At the end of the Christmas holidays, new boys mysteriously appeared at the school, one of whom became the 12-year-old Malle's  chief competitor for scholastic honors. Several weeks later, the new boys, all Jewish, and the school's headmaster, a priest, were betrayed to the Germans by a kitchen worker. They were taken away in full view of the student body. None survived the war.
        More than 40 years later, Mr. Malle tapped into this memory and wrote, directed and produced "Au Revoir les Enfants." This tale of friendship, betrayal and guilt is one of the few French films to deal with France's behavior under the Occupation, a subject that had become virtually a national taboo.
        In 1964, Mr. Malle had offered another dark, disturbing vision of France that was inspired by his memories of the Occupation. "Lacombe, Lucien" was a dispassionately told story of a bored 17-year-old peasant boy who becomes an informer for the Gestapo after the Resistance turns him down because of his callowness. Mr. Malle's willingness to discuss France's complicity in evil earned the film large audiences, many awards and the hostility of many French citizens on both the left and the right.
        When World War II ended, the young Malle attended the University of Paris, where his parents wanted him to study political science. He soon transferred to  the Institut des Hautes Etudes Cinematographiques to study film. It was there that he was introduced to Jacques-Yves Cousteau, which led to his participation  in oceanographic expeditions in 1954 and 1955. Mr. Malle's first film success came in 1956, when he directed "The Silent World" with Mr. Cousteau. He was largely responsible for the movie's memorable underwater photography, and it won an Academy Award as best documentary feature of the year.
        Mr. Malle became a cameraman for the Jacques Tati comedy "Mon Oncle," worked  as an assistant to Robert Bresson and made his first feature film at 25. The film, "Ascenseur pour l'Echafaud"("Elevator to the Gallows"), with its brilliant jazz score by Miles Davis, starred Jeanne Moreau as a woman who conspires with her lover to kill her rich husband.
        In "Les Amants" ("The Lovers," 1958), Miss Moreau played the wife of a provincial newspaper owner who gives up her husband, her child and her aimless and comfortable life after one night of ecstatic love with a student. Mr. Malle's study of a woman who chooses "a higher morality of self-realization," with its lyrical and explicit loves scenes, including a famous shot of Miss Moreau's face during an unmistakably orgasmic moment, won a jury prize at the 1959 Venice Film Festival and the enmity of censors in the United States.
        In the next decade, Mr. Malle directed such diverse films as "Zazie Dans le Metro," a zany 1960 comedy based on Raymond Queneau's novel about a foul-mouthed 12-year-old who spreads chaos in the streets of Paris; "Vie Privee" ("A Very Private Affair," 1962), which starred Brigitte Bardot and was based loosely on her life as a movie star whose fame wrecks happiness, and "Viva Maria," a lavish 1965 musical lampoon of action pictures with Brigitte Bardot and Jeanne Moreau playing two showgirls in the middle of a revolution in Latin America.
        But students of Mr. Malle's work regard the 1963 "Feu Follet" (called "A Time to Live, a Time to Die" or "The Fire Within" in this country) and "Le Voleur" ("The Thief of Paris," 1966) as his most important films of this early period. "Feu" concerns a dissipated playboy, memorably played by Maurice Ronet, who spends the last 48 hours of his life in search of some reason to go on living, finds none and kills himself. In "Le Voleur" Jean-Paul Belmondo portrays a young bourgeois so consumed by hatred of himself and his class that it drives him to theft.
        By the late 1960's Mr. Malle concluded that he was "tired of actors, studios, fiction and Paris" and decided "to change everything at once." When the British  Broadcasting Corporation offered him a chance to return to the documentary form, he seized the opportunity. He divorced his wife of two years, Anne-Marie Deschodt, disposed of his apartment in Paris and went off to India, a move he later recalled as "a turning point in my life."
        After wandering all over with a cameraman and a sound engineer, randomly filming with a 16-millimeter camera, Mr. Malle returned from India and edited 40 hours of film into eight films with narration written and spoken by himself. When the films were shown on television in 1970, they earned acclaim from the critics and wrath from the Indian Government, which shut the BBC office in New Delhi in protest over Mr. Malle's depiction of the ignorance and poverty he found. "Calcutta," the first of the eight films and the only one of feature length, was accorded high praise when it was released in the United States in 1970. The other seven programs, combined into a single six-hour documentary, "Phantom India," solidified Mr. Malle's reputation as one of the world's leading documentary film makers when it was released commercially in 1972.
        He returned to feature film making in 1971 with "Le Souffle au Coeur" ("Murmur of the Heart"). The coming-of-age comedy caused a furor in France because it depicted an adolescent boy who spends an incestuous night with his mother and far from being scarred by the experience, actually benefits from it.  The film was well received in the United States, where Pauline Kael called it "a joyous and accessible work" and Mr. Malle's screenplay was nominated for an Academy Award.
        After the failure of "Black Moon" ("the biggest flop I ever had," Mr. Malle said), the director moved to the United States in 1975. "I needed to renew the fire, and that's what I did coming here -- in my work and in my life," Mr. Malle told Michiko Kakutani of The Times. "Living here has given me a sense of threat  -- in France I was sort of a prima donna -- and I liked this challenge very much."
        His first American-made film, "Pretty Baby" (1978) achieved a certain notoriety but failed to impress critics or audiences. The film was suggested by  Ernest J. Bellocq's famous photographs of prostitutes in the Storyville section  of New Orleans. It is set in 1917 in a bordello where 12-year-old Violet (played by an 11-year-old Brooke Shields in her screen debut) lives with her mother, a prostitute (Susan Sarandon). Even though her virginity is ceremonially auctioned off and she becomes the child bride of a photographer, Violet enjoys the world of the brothel. She believes she has been degraded only after her mother marries and takes her away to live a "respectable" life.
        "Pretty Baby" and his other films provoked controversy "because I am trying to make people accept scandalous situations," Mr. Malle said. "That is, to admit ambiguity of character, to admit that one is capable of anything."
        "Atlantic City" fared better. With a screenplay by the playwright John Guare, this elegiac drama, about an aging small-time gangster (Burt Lancaster) and a young casino waitress (Miss Sarandon) who become involved in a drug deal, was nominated for five Academy Awards.
        In saluting Mr. Malle's film, Mr. Canby said, " 'Atlantic City' is the work of a true internationalist, of a man who can make his home in alien territory, which he appreciates as a stranger and takes for granted as a native." Mr. Canby found the movie "quintessential Malle, that is, romantic, clear-eyed, skeptical  and very funny, even when it's somber."
        Mr. Malle had his share of reversals in America with films including "Crackers," "Alamo Bay" and "Damage." But he will be remembered for his audacious 1981 film "My Dinner With Andre," which devoted all of its 110 minutes to a conversation in a restaurant between the stage director Andre Gregory and the actor and playwright Wallace Shawn about theater, art, life, electric blankets and the course of Western civilization.
        Last year Mr. Malle had what was to be his final success with "Vanya on 42d Street," again in colloboration with Mr. Gregory and Mr. Shawn, and the playwright David Mamet. Ben Brantley said of it in The Times: "Louis Malle's intimate, infinitely careful filming of the stage director Andre Gregory's work  in progress -- in which a superb ensemble performs Chekhov's chronicle of dashed hopes in a derelict theater in their street clothes -- triumphantly beats the odds." Mr. Brantley added, "Watching this movie, you appreciate the superstition about the camera as a thief of souls."
        Mr. Malle, a small, intense man with dark eyes and dark, wavy hair, met the actress Candice Bergen, another child of privilege as the daughter of the ventriloquist Edgar Bergen, at a Fourth of July party in Connecticut. They were  married in 1980.
        He is survived by Ms. Bergen; their daughter, Chloe; a son, Cuote,by the German actress Gila von Weiterhausen, and a daughter, Justine, by the Canadian actress Alexandra Stewart.
      