
        Marc Sarrazin, a French country butcher who became the owner of a major meat  company in New York City and a benevolent godfather to generations of young American chefs, died early yesterday morning at Bellevue Hospital after he was struck by a car on Park Avenue South. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Sarrazin, a respected and jovial figure on the American food scene, had just left a dinner at C. T. Restaurant, on East 22d Street, honoring the chef Paul Bocuse. The accident occurred shortly after 11 P.M., and Mr. Sarrazin died  at the hospital about 1 A.M.
        He had been president of DeBragga & Spitler Inc., a wholesale meat purveyor  to fine restaurants, in the old Washington Market of the West Village. He had turned control over to his son, Marc Jr., in 1992. Throughout his career, Mr. Sarrazin was a mentor to young chefs seeking career advice. Often he would invite the cooks for an interview in his wood-paneled office festooned with photographs of chefs.
        "I never asked them about cooking," Mr. Sarrazin once said. "I wanted to get  a feeling for their character first."
        The chefs and restaurateurs Mr. Sarrazin helped included Charles Palmer (Aureole), Daniel Boulud (Restaurant Daniel), Jean-Georges Vongerichten (Vong, Jo Jo), Danny Meyer (Union Square Cafe, Vong) and Andre Soltner (Lutece).
        Mr. Sarrazin was also a trustee for the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y. He was an adviser to the New York City Technical College in Brooklyn and to the Greenbrier Hotel's cooking apprenticeship program in White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., as well as a trustee of the Societe Culinaire Philanthropique, a charity for retired chefs.
        Mr. Sarrazin was born in the Charolles region of Burgundy. He came to the United States in 1954 after a stint as a butcher for a Bermuda hotel. He joined  DeBragga & Spitler as a salesman, and by 1973 was in a position to buy the company from the owner, Paul Spitler. Today the company supplies beef, veal and  game to leading New York restaurants.
        Mr. Sarrazin is survived by his wife, Renee, and two children, Marc Jr. and Claire Rennell, both of Manhattan.
      