
        John Patrick, who won a Pulitzer Prize for his 1953 play "Teahouse of the August Moon," died on Tuesday at an adult-care center in Delray Beach, Fla., where he had lived for two years. He was 90.
        He committed suicide, said a friend, Michael Hall, the artistic director of Caldwell Theater Company in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Mr. Patrick's prize-winning comedy, adapted from a novel by Vern J. Sneider, centered on the efforts of the United States Army to establish democracy in a village on Okinawa during World War II.
        "Teahouse" made its Broadway debut at the Martin Beck Theater in October 1953. It was praised by Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times as "not only amusing but enchanting, and perhaps illuminating as well."
        In addition to the 1954 Pulitzer, the play brought Mr. Patrick a New York Drama Critics Circle Award and a Tony Award.
        Mr. Patrick's other plays included the often-produced "Curious Savage" (1950) and "The Hasty Heart" (1945). Reviewing a 1984 revival of "The Hasty Heart" in The New York Times, Mel Gussow wrote that it had "mellowed into a period piece that continues to touch audiences with an archetypal story about friendship under fire."
        That play was drawn from Mr. Patrick's experiences serving in an ambulance unit in World War II. It was made into a 1949 movie that featured Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Patrick continued to write for the theater for more than a quarter-century after "Teahouse." His 1969 comedy "Love Is a Time of Day" opened at the Music Box Theater and was given "three cheers -- well, two and a half cheers -- for the good bad play" in The Times by Clive Barnes.
        Mr. Patrick also worked on more than two dozen screenplays from the 1930's through the late 1960's. His screenwriting credits included "Three Coins in the  Fountain" (1954) and "Love Is a Many Splendored Thing" (1955), the 1956 remake of "High Society" starring Bing Crosby and Grace Kelly. He also wrote the screenplay for "The Teahouse of the August Moon" (1956), which he adapted from his play and which starred Marlon Brando as an Asian interpreter and Glenn Ford  as an United States Army officer.
        In 1971, looking back on his commercial success, Mr. Patrick took a cool-eyed view of his craft in a letter to The Times. "I look upon myself as a practical businessman in something called show business, not show-art or show-games," he wrote, adding, "If I ever thought of myself as an artist, I wouldn't be able to  write my own name."
        As for the Pulitzer, he said, "its only convenience is in getting airline reservations."
        In the letter, he also reported that data compiled by the Screen Writers Guild indicated that he had earned about $1.4 million in the previous 10 years from screenplays he had written. "I wonder where it went," he joked.
        Mr. Patrick was born in Louisville, Ky., in 1905 with the surname Goggan or O'Goggan (accounts differ), which he dropped later. He studied at Our Lady of Holy Cross College in New Orleans and elsewhere, and began his career as a writer by turning out scripts for NBC radio in San Francisco from 1933 to 1936.
        His goal was to be a playwright. His first play to be produced, "Hell Freezes Over," had Josh Logan as its director. It arrived on Broadway in 1935 and proved a failure, as was his next play to be produced, "The Willow and I" (1942).
        "I was discouraged from ever becoming a serious playwright by the critics of  my first plays," Mr. Patrick noted in his 1971 letter. "I then settled for the rather universal need to make a living. You might say I have flourished in adversity."
      