
        Joseph M. Fox, one of the most prominent and independent senior editors at Random House, died yesterday at his office in Manhattan. He was 69.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said an official at Bellevue Hospital Center.
        Mr. Fox, a tall man with a bearlike shamble, was known as a gentlemanly raconteur and passionate backgammon player. He became a well-loved figure at Random House, where he spent 35 years editing some of the house's star writers,  among them Truman Capote, Fran Lebowitz, John Irving, Philip Roth, Ralph Ellison, Anthony Lewis, Peter Matthiessen, Mark Salzman and Martin Cruz Smith.
        "He was an absolutely assiduous line editor," said Mr. Smith, who worked on five books with Mr. Fox. "He would simply take my sentences and push in an arm here and pull a knee over here. And when the sentences stood up, they stood up straighter. He took such infinite care over every word. He tried to get the rhythm of each individual writer, like he was learning a musical score."
        Mr. Fox was born in Philadelphia in 1926. He attended Pomfret School in Pomfret, Conn., and graduated from Harvard University in 1950. He was the captain of the Harvard swimming team in his senior year.
        He began his publishing career right out of school, joining Alfred A. Knopf as a trainee, then becoming a salesman, a reader and finally a junior editor.
        In 1956 he took a job as a literary adviser at NBC, where he selected scripts for "Playwrights '56" and other dramatic shows for live television.
        Three years later, he returned to publishing, working first as a senior editor at Henry Holt, then moving to Random House.
        There, Mr. Fox, whose appearance was rumpled and professorial and whose voice was warm and gruff, developed a reputation as daring, eccentric and independent  in spirit. Twenty-four hours after the Italian liner Andrea Doria sank in 1956,  Mr. Fox liked to tell friends, he and another friend put on scuba gear to inspect the submerged ship.
        At Random House, his office was stacked with yellowed newspapers: a blockade, he told colleagues, that allowed him to hide when he was thinking and puffing on cigarettes. He worked long hours and missed only a handful of days in his 35 years on the job, his colleagues said. And he was rarely seen, even on vacations, without a manuscript, said Jason Epstein, another Random House editor.
        Mr. Fox's first marriage, to Isabel W. Fuller in 1950, ended in divorce. In 1983, he married Anne Isaak, now a part owner of Elio's, a restaurant in Manhattan. The couple separated.
        He is survived by five sons: Logan, of Princeton, N.J.; Jeffrey, of Portland, Ore.; Blair, of Berkeley, Calif.; Michael, of Londonderry, Vt., and Elio, of New York City.
      