
        Francis Grover Cleveland, an actor, producer and director in summer stock as  well as the nation's senior Presidential offspring, died on Wednesday at Huggins Hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 92.
        Mr. Cleveland, who lived in Tamworth, a resort center in eastern New Hampshire, in the southern foothills of the White Mountains, was a founder of the Barnstormers, a troupe that traveled in New Hampshire starting in 1931. The  company found a permanent home in a remodeled barn in Tamworth after World War II.
        Starting in 1966, Mr. Cleveland perennially talked of retirement and the possibility that his aptly called nonprofit theater might have to close. Yet, despite failing eyesight, Mr. Cleveland again directed some of last summer's fare, opening the season with "The Front Page" in July and closing with "The Fantasticks" in early September.
        Mr. Cleveland was born in Buzzards Bay, Mass., the youngest of four children  of Grover Cleveland, the nation's 22d and 24th President. His father, a frequent summer visitor in Tamworth, died in 1908, when the boy was 5.
        Mr. Cleveland graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College. He  briefly taught private school in Cambridge, Mass., but then opted for the stage. He acted in Boston and later in New York, where he had cameo roles on Broadway in the original productions of "Dead End" and "Our Town."
        He founded the Barnstormers with his wife, the former Alice Erdman, and Edward P. Goodnow, a director. With no starring roles in the offing in New York, he moved to Tamworth in 1940. Besides his summer stock theater, he also ran a poultry business.
        Although his father was elected President as a Democrat in 1884, and again in 1888, Mr. Cleveland said he turned Republican in 1945, when Harry S. Truman became President. He was elected as a selectman in Tamworth in 1950.
        Mr. Cleveland's wife died in 1992 after 67 years of marriage. He is survived  by their daughter, Marion C. Cohen of Baltimore, and his close friend, Betty Welch.
        Correction:  November 11, 1995, Saturday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Francis Grover Cleveland misstated the election history of his father, the country's 22d and 24th President. Grover Cleveland, a Democrat, was elected in 1884 and 1892, not  in 1888. That year he gained a majority of the popular vote but lost the Presidency in the Electoral College to Benjamin Harrison, a Republican.
      