
        Donald F. Othmer, an innovative chemical engineer who combined an inquisitive mind, a practical nature and gift for manual dexterity into an acclaimed career  as an educator, inventor, entrepreneur and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at  Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. Dr. Othmer, who had been a professor at Polytechnic University for more than 60 years, was 91.
        Although Polytechnic was his base from the time he joined the faculty of the  university's fledgling chemical engineering department in 1932, Dr. Othmer, who  served for many years as department chairman and helped transform the obscure college in Brooklyn into one of the nation's leading technological centers, had  a wide-ranging career.
        Among other things, he helped develop one of the most powerful conventional  explosives, RDX, which was made from acetic acid and used in World War II.
        He also obtained more than 150 American and foreign patents, and circumnavigated the globe more than a dozen times as a highly sought international consultant who virtually created the Burmese chemical industry after the war.
        As well known to generations of chemical engineers as Hoyle is to card players, Dr. Othmer was a founding editor of the Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, a multivolume reference work now in its fourth edition. (The co-founder, Raymond Kirk, a former chairman of Polytechnic's chemistry department, died before the first edition was published in 1947.)
        A native of Omaha, where his father was a sheet metal worker, Dr. Othmer traced his interest in chemistry to a high school teacher who had studied at the University of Heidelberg in Germany with Robert Bunsen, whose Bunsen burner became a laboratory fixture.
        After graduating from the University of Nebraska and receiving a doctorate from the University of Michigan in 1927, Dr. Othmer assured his own fame as a young engineer for the Eastman Kodak Company.
        Assigned to find an efficient way to distill acetic acid, a major ingredient  in safety film, he not only accomplished that task, laying the groundwork for a  huge new industry, but also did it in a particularly ingenious way. To measure the effects of various distilling methods, he invented the Othmer still, a device that continues to be used to study distillation.
        It was typical of Dr. Othmer's hands-on, low-cost approach to scientific problem solving in that he not only dreamed up and designed the still, but also  learned glass blowing so taht he could build it himself.
        After receiving a $10 bonus for each of the 40 or so patents he obtained for  Eastman, some eventually worth millions to the company, Dr. Othmer struck out on his own, working as a consultant until the Depression led him to the security of a post at Poltytechnic -- an institution, he later noted, that assured him both academic and entrepreneurial freedom.
        He trained thousands of students, including many who became leading figures in the chemical industry and one who found success in a different field, Martin  Perl, who won this year's Nobel Prize for physics.
        Dr. Othmer, who had a knack for finding simple, practical solutions to complicated problems, specialized in improving chemical manufacturing processes. His work has been fundamental to the production of billions of pounds of resins, plastics, surface coatings, textile fibers, foods and pharmaceuticals.
        Not all of his chemical inventions paid off. Most tended to be elegant, however, although few reached the inspired Rube Goldberg heights as the 1975 patent he received for a process to use sunlight and sea water to produce fresh  water, electric power and nourishment for clams, oysters, lobsters and other seafood.
        Dr. Othmer gave away millions of dollars to charities, but the money did not  come primarily from his patent royalties. Rather, it came from his investments.
        As skilled in finance as he was in nearly everything else, Dr. Othmer, a man  of such practical frugality that he dispensed with lawyers and wrote his own patent applications in longhand, was one of the earliest partners of his Omaha friend, Warren Buffet.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mildred Topp of Omaha, who now lives in a nursing home there, and a sister, Mildred Peterson of Chicago.
      