
        Merrimon Cuninggim, an ordained Methodist minister who brought a finely honed sense of ethics -- and a wicked backhand -- to his work as an educator and foundation official, died on Wednesday at his home in Cockeysville, Md. He was 84.
        In a career in which he taught religion at four colleges, served as president of Salem College in Winston-Salem, N.C., from 1976 to 1979 and held a series of  philanthropic posts, Mr. Cuninggim twice made major ethical stands.
        As dean of the Perkins School of Theology at Southern Methodist University in 1952, he led the drive to admit black students, making Perkins the first integrated graduate school in the South.
        In 1973, as executive director of the Danforth Foundation, established in St. Louis by members of the Ralston Purina family, Mr. Cuninggim resigned rather than acquiesce in what he perceived as a conflict of interest: a $60 million grant to Washington University at a time when one man, William Danforth, was serving as chairman of the foundation and chancellor of the university.
        Mr. Cuninggim, who had helped make Danforth the nation's leading foundation in direct grants to higher education during his 13 years there, was so dedicated to the principles of philanthropy, particularly in education, that in 1979 he founded the Center for Effective Philanthropy, an advisory group on foundation management. He also held many educational posts, including service on the boards of two universities at which he had studied, Vanderbilt and Duke.
        He came by his interest in education naturally. Born on the campus of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, where his father was a professor of divinity, he later received a varied and extensive education, including degrees  from Vanderbilt (bachelor's), Duke (master's in English), Oxford (bachelor's and master's in history) and Yale (bachelor of divinity and Ph.D. in education).
        For all that, his wife, Whitty, confided yesterday, the reason her husband extended his stay at Oxford for a year as a Rhodes Scholar was for the chance to win the British intercollegiate tennis championship. A ranked player who competed at Wimbledon and Forest Hills, Mr. Cuninggim later held unlikely dual posts at Pomona College: chairman of the religion department and tennis coach.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Lee Neff of Seattle and Penny Cuninggim of Northampton, Mass.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      