
        Chih-Kung Jen, who was born in a mud house in a remote village in China and made his way to the Ivy League and a career as a theoretical and experimental physicist in the United States, died on Sunday at a daughter's home in Needham,  Mass. He was 89 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        Dr. Jen worked for 27 years at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, where he was head of the microwave physics group and vice chairman of the research center. In 1966, he was named the first  William Parsons Professor of Chemical Physics at the university.
        In 1972, he led the first delegation of Chinese-born scientists from the United States to China after President Richard M. Nixon's trip there led to a renewal of contacts between the two countries.
        Dr. Jen specialized in microwave spectroscopy, the measurement of the absorption or emission by atoms or molecules of radiation in the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Colleagues said he made pioneering contributions in the field.
        His research in the late 1920's provided early experimental proof of the existence of the ionosphere, a layer of ionized air high above the earth's surface that reflects radio waves. Later he was part of a team at the physics laboratory that developed an innovative process to isolate groups of normally short-lived atoms at extremely low temperatures for study of their structures and behavior.
        He was born in 1906 in a peasant village in Shanxi Province in northern China and became the only member of the immediate family who ever learned to read. He  was educated at Tsinghua University in Beijing, and received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; a master's degree in radio communication from the University of Pennsylvania, and  a Ph.D. in physics from Harvard University in 1931.
        He returned to China two years later to teach at Tsinghua University, but the Japanese invasion in 1937 forced him and his new wife, Pao-Cheng Jen, to flee. The Japanese occupied Beijing on the couple's wedding day.
        The newlyweds took part in what has been called the "academic long march," a  great exodus of students and faculty members from colleges in Beijing and Tianjin, first to Changsha and then to Kunming more than 1,200 miles away in southwest China. Some went by way of Vietnam, others went by sea and many took a route across high mountain ranges; not all survived.
        In Kunming, the academics established a "refugee university" with 3,000 students that operated for eight years under primitive conditions, with teachers and professors alike in constant danger from Japanese air attacks. Dr. Jen once  recalled that the classes were in English as well as Chinese. Although the students would have preferred instruction solely in their native tongue, the only textbooks available were in English.  "We understood that the will to learn is far more important than books and classrooms," he said.
        After the war, he was awarded a fellowship by the Chinese Government in recognition of his wartime contributions and returned to Harvard in 1946 to teach physics. In 1950 he joined the physics laboratory at Johns Hopkins. He retired in 1977.
        In addition to his wife, of Silver Spring, he is survived by four daughters,  May Koo of Mountain View, Calif., Linda Jen-Jacobson of Pittsburgh, Phyllis Jen  of Needham, and Erica Jen of El Rancho, N.M.; a brother, Ren Zhi-Jian of Beijing; a sister, Ren Zhi-Fang of Lanzhou, China; nine grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      