
        Sergei Grinkov, the classic Russian pairs skater who won two Olympic gold medals with his wife and partner, Yekaterina Gordeyeva, died suddenly yesterday  in Lake Placid, N.Y., where he was training for a tour and the world professional championships. Grinkov, who was 28, apparently suffered a heart attack.
        The couple were training yesterday morning with Coach Marina Zueva when Grinkov collapsed at a rink in the Lake Placid Olympic Center, according to a statement issued by the International Management Group, which represents the defending Olympic champions.
        Paramedics arrived within four minutes, and Grinkov was taken to the Adirondack Medical Center, where the staff attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation for about an hour before declaring him dead at 12:28 P.M., according to I.M.G. and Lake Placid Olympic officials.
        The cause of death is suspected to be a heart attack, said Chandler Ralph, president of the Adirondack Medical Center. An autopsy will be performed today,  she said.
        Grinkov and the 24-year-old Gordeyeva, the 1988 and 1994 Olympic pairs champions, skated with a striking precision, fluidity, unison and cleanliness of line.
        Grinkov was the perfect partner because he was willing to sublimate himself with a quiet anonymity, while his wife became the focus of their muscular lifts  and captivating throws. Their signature maneuver, not performed in recent years, was a quadruple twist, in which he threw her for a four-revolution spin.
        "They were the quintessentially perfect pair," said Dick Button, the two-time Olympic champion. "They had the strength, power and flow that so many skaters at the top of the world simply don't have. He was superb in holding himself back to highlight the efforts of his partner. You could always see him pointing the focus of your eye to her."
        Conflicting reports emerged from Lake Placid about whether Grinkov, who suffered from back problems this season, collapsed during a lift-and-throw maneuver with his wife or whether he had grown dizzy and had lain down after completing a lift. Skating officials said the couple were training alone at the  time, while other skaters were at an adjacent rink.
        "He didn't fall; he didn't have a spill," said Don Krone, a spokesman for the Olympic Regional Development Authority in Lake Placid. That Grinkov grew dizzy and had to lie down "is probably closer to reality," Krone said.
        Skating officials said that Grinkov's father died suddenly in 1989 while he was in his 40's, perhaps of a heart attack. Joan Burns, a skating judge and official from Millbrae, Calif., said she arranged for Grinkov to return to Moscow from an American tour when his father died.
        "His father was under 50; it was very sudden," Burns said. "I vaguely remember it was a heart attack, but I don't know the absolute truth."
        Linda Dozoretz, a spokeswoman for I.M.G., said that she was not aware that Grinkov had any history of heart trouble.
        "That was the first question I asked," Dozoretz said. "People who knew him really well said no."
        Burns, who has known Grinkov since he was 16, said it was commonly known in skating circles that Grinkov was taking medication for a back injury that had forced him and his wife to withdraw from three competitions this year. Groin, back and shoulder injuries -- brought on by the stress of lifting and throwing their partners -- are common injuries for male pairs skaters.
        Grinkov and Gordeyeva, whose unison, sometimes prompted observers to say that their "hearts seemed to beat at the same time," performed most recently on Nov.  12 in Albany at a made-for-television event of Olympic champions called Skates of Gold.
        Some who saw their two routines in Albany said that Grinkov appeared to have  trouble lifting his wife. Jirina Ribbens, a skating expert from New York, said the couple looked good during their routines, but that Grinkov was concerned about continuing back problems.
        The couple were preparing for the Stars on Ice tour that included other Olympic stars like Katarina Witt, Scott Hamilton and Paul Wylie. The tour is scheduled to have a preview Saturday night in Lake Placid, then open on Dec. 27  and run through March with about 50 performances. Grinkov and Gordeyeva had also been scheduled to seek their fourth world professional title on Dec. 9 in Landover, Md.
        "They were up to form, but they hadn't been competing," said Ribbens, who is  vice president of Candid Productions, which produces the world professional championships. "He said he was concerned about his back, that it could give out  any time and it was dangerous. What would happen with his wife in the air? He said he had to be extremely careful, but he was psyched to defend their professional title."
        Grinkov, who was born in Moscow on Feb. 4, 1967, to parents who were Red Army officers, began his career as a singles skater. Reluctantly, he was paired with  Gordeyeva in 1982, when he was 15 and she was 11. Six years later, they won their first Olympic title at the 1988 Winter Games in Calgary, Alberta. They won a second gold medal at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway.
        Gordeyeva and Grinkov began dating in 1989 and were married in April 1991. Their daughter, Daria, was born in September 1992. The couple bought a home in Tampa, Fla., and later moved to Simsbury, Conn.
        Despite a striking difference in size -- she is 5 feet 1 inch, 90 pounds, while he was 5-11, 175 pounds -- Gordeyeva and Grinkov were the epitome of the Russian pairs skating school, combining the elegance and artistry of the Protopopovs with the strength, power and speed of Irina Rodnina and Aleksandr Zaitsev, their gold-medal predecessors.
        "They had everything -- technique, romantic style and cleanliness," said Natalya Dubova, a Russian ice-dance coach who lives in Lake Placid. "They skated for each other. You could feel them connect."
        FIGURE SKATING
      