
        Bernard M. Oliver, who directed research at the Hewlett-Packard Company for four decades, died on Thursday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Oliver was the founder of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, where he was best known for the design of the world's first programmable desktop calculator,  the HP 9100, and the handheld calculators that followed, as well as the company's first computer. He held more than 60 American patents and was the author of many technical papers.
        Mr. Oliver received the National Medal of Science in 1986 for "translating the most profound discoveries of physical and communication science into the electronic, radio and computer systems that have improved our culture and enriched the lives of all Americans." He received the Medal for Exceptional Engineering Achievement from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1990.
        Before joining Hewlett-Packard, Mr. Oliver was a member of the technical staff of the Bell Telephone Laboratories from 1940 to 1952. At Bell Labs, he worked on the development of automatic tracking radar, television transmission,  information theory and efficient coding systems.
        He was employed in various research and management positions at Hewlett-Packard from 1952 to 1981, and continued to serve as a consultant to the president after retirement.
        Building on his background in radio physics, Mr. Oliver became interested in  radio astronomy as a practical means for the detection of intelligent extraterrestrial life. His concept of a phased array of 10,000 steerable dish antennas was the catalyst for a major feasibility study, Project Cyclops, conducted in 1971 by Stanford University. As president of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, he testified that such an array could receive television signals for other worlds as far as 200 light years away.
        Mr. Oliver continued the extraterrestrial work he began at NASA's Ames Laboratories in Mountain View, Calif., at the SETI Institute, with which he remained involved until his death.
        He was also the founder of Biosys, an agricultural biotechnology company.
        A native of Santa Cruz, Calif., who grew up on a ranch in the Soquel Valley,  Mr. Oliver studied electrical engineering, received his bachelor of science degree from Stanford in 1935, and a master's degree in 1936 and a Ph.D. magna cum laude in 1940, both from the California Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Oliver was married to Priscilla Newton from 1945 until her death in December 1994. He is survived by three children, Karen Newton Oliver of Vancouver, B.C., and Gretchen More Oliver and William Eric Oliver, both of San Francisco.
      