
        Franz Pfyffer von Altishofen, who was the commander of the Swiss Guards in 1981 when Pope John Paul II was shot and wounded in St. Peter's Square, died on  Friday in Lucerne, Switzerland. He was 77.
        Mr. Pfyffer was a 54-year-old lawyer in Lucerne in 1972 when he was named commander of the storied 100-man force of Swiss mercenaries.
        The appointment was hardly surprising. He was, he pointed out, the 11th member of his family to command the elite force, which was formed in 1506 by Pope Julius II, who had become impressed by Swiss troops while serving as Bishop of Lausanne.
        How seriously the guards take their annual oath to give their lives to protect the Pope became apparent in May 1527, when three-quarters of the force,  147 men, died while shielding Pope Clement VII from 1,000 invaders during the sack of Rome by Charles V. The surviving 42 guards escorted Clement to safety.
        Although sacrifices on that scale have not been required since, on several occasions it has taken papal intervention to save the guards from annihilation.
        By the time Mr. Pfyffer assumed his post, the role of the Swiss Guards had become largely ceremonial.
        They continued to serve as the Pope's bodyguards inside the papal apartments, but their public service in St. Peter's Square was largely limited to crowd control and ceremonial functions; a separate force of armed plainclothesmen, supplemented by Italian police units, provided the main security.
        Indeed, the guards, who were forced to give up their firearms by papal decree in 1970, are armed only with medieval halberds, seven-foot-long spears with battle axes. These, together with their colorful medieval-style uniforms (designed in 1914 by an anonymous Vatican seamstress with such fanciful flair that they have ever since been attributed to Michelangelo) make them prime tourist attractions.
        Still, when Pope John Paul II swore in 19 new Swiss Guards and administered the annual oath on May 6, 1981, the 454th anniversary of the sack of Rome, he reminded them of their duty: "Whosoever shall lose his life for my sake," he said, quoting St. Matthew's Gospel, "will gain life."
        Exactly a week later, as the Pope was being driven through the square in an open Jeep, a 23-year-old Turk opened fire from within a crowd of 15,000 well-wishers and seriously wounded the Pope.
        Two guards, on duty in full regalia 30 feet away, were among the first to reach the Pope's side, but their greatest service was to his attacker, Mehemet Ali Agca: The guards were credited with rescuing him from a lynch mob.
        The next year, after 10 years' service, Mr. Pfyffer pleaded ill health and received papal permission to retire at the age of 65.
        No survivors were given.
      