
        Dr. Clark Thorp Randt, founding chairman of the department of neurology at New York University Medical Center and the first director of life sciences for NASA, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 78.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Randt made his mark researching conditions like epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, nutritional deprivation in early life, mental retardation, senile dementia and myasthenia gravis, as well as the neurological effects of weightlessness in space. He trained neurologists now at work in the United States, Europe and Asia.
        He was among the first specialists to recognize the role played by the neurotransmitter norepinephrine in memory. His studies of memory and the impact  of aging on it led in the 1980's to the development of the Randt-Brown Memory Test, which is used to measure human memory functions.
        Dr. Randt retired in 1988 as professor emeritus of neurology at N.Y.U. He had joined the faculty there in 1962, and served as department chairman from 1970 to 1987. From 1962 until his retirement he also was director of the Neurology Service at N.Y.U.-Bellevue Medical Center.
        A native of Cleveland, he was a graduate of Colgate University and received his medical degree at Western Reserve University in 1943. Following service as a captain in the Army Medical Corps, he trained at the Neurological Institute of New York.
        Returning to Cleveland, he established the division of neurology and the neurology training program at University Hospital. Among the subjects he researched were the pathways of pain in the nervous system.
        His study of weightlessness in space led to his appointment by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration as director of life sciences in 1960. The agency set up a new office to examine the effects of a space environment on living organisms, including the search for extraterrestrial life, and to conduct applied research into the biological and medical problems of manned space flight.
        Dr. Randt had been vice president of the Aerospace Medical Association, president of the American Neurological Society and chairman of the Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease.
        Dr. Randt's wife of 49 years, Mary-Louise Paull Mitchell Randt, died in 1993. He is survived by three sons, Clark T. Randt Jr. of Hong Kong, Dana M. Randt of  Sun Valley, Idaho, and Thomas P. Randt of Houston, and five grandchildren.
      