
        Edward J. Wormley, a style setter in modern residential furniture in the United States for four decades, died on Friday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 87 and lived in Weston.
        Mr. Wormley designed furniture from 1930 to 1970. He began creating pieces with simplified silhouettes and plain surfaces after a trip in 1930 to Paris, where he met Le Corbusier and Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann, the Art Deco designer. Back in the United States in 1931, he was hired by the Dunbar Furniture Corporation of Berne, Ind., to improve its least expensive furniture line, which people bought with soap coupons and was therefore popularly referred to as "borax."
        Within five years, Mr. Wormley's furniture had made Dunbar the top producer  of modern in America. From 1931 until 1970, when the company was sold, Mr. Wormley designed about 150 pieces a year for the company, combining a knowledge  of woodworking, an understanding of the past and a feeling for what makes a chair comfortable for an American. Among the classics he designed were the A-frame wood chair with a caned back and compass legs of 1959 and a ledge-armed  tufted sofa of the mid-1960's.
        Mr. Wormley also urged Dunbar to make reproductions of some of the best examples of European modernist and Art Deco furniture by Jean-Michel Frank of Paris and Richard Riemerschmid of Munich. Mr. Wormley had a photograph of a chair by Riemerschmid from 1899 that he had copied from the image. Even though the chair was not a replica, the heirs of Riemerschmid were so satisfied that they added it to their museum collection.
        "Edward Wormley was a major influence on American design in the mid-century," said Jack Lenor Larsen, the textile producer. "And he did far more than furniture, designing carpets, fabrics, lamps for Lightolier and the first rheostat lighting system for the home."
        He was also a pioneer collector of Art Nouveau, especially Tiffany lamps and  glass vases. He inlaid Tiffany glass tiles in tables that he designed for Dunbar in 1956, two years before the revival was recognized by any museum.
        Born in Oswego, Ill., Mr. Wormley had polio as a small child and did not walk until he was 5; he limped for the rest of his life. After completing high school in Rochelle, Ill., he studied design for two years at the Art Institute of Chicago. His first job was in the design studio at Marshall Field & Company in Chicago. After that he worked briefly for Berkey & Gay, a furniture manufacturer in Grand Rapids, Mich.
        During World War II, Mr. Wormley worked as the head of the furniture unit of  the Office of Price Administration in Washington. After the war, he continued as Dunbar's design director but worked outside the company from his own office.
        His furniture designs were included in the Good Design shows of the Museum of Modern Art in 1951 and 1952. Examples of his furniture are in the collections of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and the Museum of Decorative Arts in Montreal.
        He won the Designer of Distinction award from the American Society of Interior Designers and the Elsie de Wolfe Award.
        No immediate family members survive.
      