
        Edith Haggard, a New York literary agent whose clients ranged from an important group of proper British writers to the cantankerous Sinclair Lewis, died on Thursday in the Whitney Pavilion of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        In her 30-year career, Mrs. Haggard, who spent five years with the William Morris agency's literary department before joining the Curtis Brown agency in 1937, became one of the city's best-known agents, representing clients like Adela Rogers St. Johns, Nunnally Johnson, Phyllis McGinley, Vera Caspary and Ogden Nash.
        A small blond woman whose delicate features were once likened to porcelain,  Mrs. Haggard, whose decidedly fragile appearance belied a will of steel, was also a central figure in the literary social whirl.
        Invitations to her annual New Year's Eve parties were coveted, in part because of the number of her famous clients and other acclaimed poets and novelists who would inevitably be present and in part because she was a particularly thoughtful hostess. Mindful that cabs are hard to come by in the wee hours of New Year's Day, she engaged a car and driver for the evening so that her guests could get home.
        In addition to a long list of American clients, Mrs. Haggard handled sales to American magazines for several British authors, including C. P. Snow and Daphne  Du Maurier. Her other British authors included Joyce Cary, Richard Llewellyn and Rumer Godden.
        In an era when leading magazines had voracious appetites for short fiction, she served almost as an adjunct editor at The Saturday Evening Post, making weekly trips to its headquarters in Philadelphia.
        Mrs. Haggard, whose parents, Caroline Briggs and Victor Zorn, were from New Orleans, was born in New York and graduated from Brooklyn Heights Seminary before beginning her literary career, initially at Delineator magazine. There she became associate editor and fell in love with her boss, Sewell Haggard, the  magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
        Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again. For the rest of her life she was listed in the Manhattan telephone directory as Mrs. Sewell Haggard.
        After her retirement in 1962, she liked to reminisce about her former clients, none of whom, by her account, gave her as much trouble as Sinclair Lewis, a notoriously irascible man, especially when he had been drinking.
        She is survived by a niece, Phyllis Lockwood of Anderson, Ind., and two great-nieces, Pamela Herring of Darien, Conn., and Gail Holey of Vienna, Va.
      