
        Maurice Lee Britt, a highly decorated World War II veteran who helped to reshape the political landscape of Arkansas, died on Sunday in the John L. McClellan Memorial Veterans Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. He was 76 and lived in Little Rock.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        In 1966, Mr. Britt, who was called Footsie, became the first Republican elected lieutenant governor in Arkansas since Reconstruction. He was elected along with Winthrop Rockefeller, the Republican candidate for governor, and their victory put an end to the era of Orval Faubus and paved the way for a new  generation of Arkansas politicians, including Democrats in a new mold, like Bill Clinton.
        Mr. Britt's war record gave a strong boost to the Republican campaign in 1966. He won each of the three highest military decorations for bravery in combat, the Distinguished Service Cross in 1944 and the Silver Star and the Medal of Honor. He lost his right arm on an Italian battlefield.
        Mr. Britt, known for his robust and jolly campaign style, served two terms as lieutenant governor, although he squeaked through in a recount the second time around. He ran for governor in 1986 but failed to win the Republican nomination.
        He was born in Carlisle, Ark., and played end on the University of Arkansas football team. He graduated with a degree in journalism and played professionally with the Detroit Lions before going on active military duty in 1941.
        He was a platoon commander and fought in the Allied invasions of Africa, Sicily and Italy. He received the Medal of Honor for leading a small American unit in the Italian campaign and thwarting a German attack that threatened to entrap an American battalion of the Third Division.
        After the war, he attended the University of Arkansas School of Law before starting an aluminum products business. He directed the Arkansas operations of the Small Business Administration for 14 years after his terms as Lieutenant Governor.
        Mr. Britt is survived by two sons, Maurice L. 3d of Royal, Ark., and Tim of Little Rock; three daughters, Andrea Schafer and Nancy McDurmont of Lonoke, Ark., and Patty Johnson of Falls Church, Va.; a brother, Basil, of Carlisle, Ark.; 12 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. His wife, Patricia, to whom he was married for 27 years, died in 1993.
      