
        Thyra Johnston, a blue-eyed fair-skinned New Hampshire homemaker who became a symbol of the silliness of racial distinctions when she and her husband announced that they were black, died on Nov. 22 at her home in Honolulu. She was 91.
        She was the real-life heroine of "Lost Boundaries," a movie that stunned the  nation in 1949.
        It is doubtful that Norman Rockwell could have dreamed up a family that better epitomized the small-town Depression-era American ideal than Albert and Thyra Johnston and their four children.
        Dr. Johnston, who was born in Chicago, graduated with honors from the University of Chicago Medical School and studied radiology at Harvard. He was such a respected figure that in the 10 years that he practiced in Gorham, N.H.,  he headed the school board, was a selectman, was president of the county medical society and became chairman of the local Republican Party.
        Mrs. Johnston, who was born in New Orleans, grew up in Boston and married her husband when he was a medical student, and was at once a model homemaker and mother and a civic and social leader whose well-appointed home in exclusive Prospect Hill was the scene of the annual Christmas social of the Congregational Church.
        But Mrs. Johnston, described by her son Albert Jr. as looking as Irish as any of her neighbors, had a secret. In a society of such perverse attitudes that black "blood" was simultaneously scorned and regarded as so powerful that the tiniest trace was considered the defining racial characteristic, she was born one-eighth black, enough to qualify her as "Negro" on her birth certificate.
        Although he was listed on his birth certificate as white, according to his son, Dr. Johnston was also part black, as well as part Indian. He was black enough to be one of two "black" students admitted to his medical class under a racial quota. But after graduation he could not find a job at one of the few hospitals that accepted black interns.
        When Maine General Hospital in Portland accepted his application without inquiring about his race, a deception of sorts began. "We never once intended to pass over as white," Mrs. Johnston said years later. "It just happened accidentally."
        So, too, did the denouement.
        It began in 1940, when the Navy recruited Dr. Johnston and then withdrew his  commission after the Naval intelligence authorities had questioned him about reports that he had "colored blood." Stung by the rejection, Dr. Johnston, who moved his family to Keene in southern New Hampshire in 1939, told his children about their background.
        A few years later Albert Jr. told the story to Louis De Rochemont, the movie  producer, who immediately grasped its implications. As a result, the family's story was told, first in a widely read article in the Reader's Digest in 1947 by William L. White, then in a book and, lastly, in "Lost Boundaries," which starred Mel Ferrer and Beatrice Pearson.
        The movie, which won a series of major awards, was so powerful that when the  lights came up after the world premiere in New York, the audience sat in stunned silence.
        No wonder. The movie undermined the very foundation of social attitudes that  link race and personal characteristics. Its message to white America was unmistakable. Because if you did not know that a person is black, he would be the very one you would want to examine your X-rays and run your school system, and she would be the one you would want to play bridge with and work with on civic projects, what possible difference could it make if you did know?
        In Keene the answer was essentially none. The Johnstons' friends seemed to realize that the family had not been passing as white, but as Americans.
        Their children, who had, after all, grown up in a society that regarded race  as defining, had to make some psychological adjustments. But there was virtually no social backlash, and Dr. Johnston's practice actually grew, until he accepted a lucrative offer to move to Hawaii in 1966.
        In 1989, a year after her husband's death, when she attended a movie reunion  in Keene, Mrs. Johnston offered her own prism for looking at her palette of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. "I just call them flowers in a garden," she said.
        In addition to Albert Jr. of Honolulu, surviving are two other sons, Donald,  of Thornton, Colo., and Paul, of Buzzards Bay, Mass.; a daughter, Anne Breen of  North Granby, Conn.; a sister, Antoinette Reed of Tuskegee, Ala.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      