
        John Craven, who created the role of George Gibbs in the original Broadway production of Thornton Wilder's "Our Town," died on Friday at his home in Salt Point, N.Y. He was 79.
        In 1938, Mr. Craven made his Broadway debut at the age of 21 in the Pulitzer  Prize-winning play, acting alongside his father, Frank Craven, who played the Stage Manager. In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson said that John Craven and Martha Scott (as Emily Webb) "turn youth into tremulous idealization," and that "some of their scenes are lovely past all enduring."
        For Mr. Craven, a long career followed on stage and in films and television. On Broadway he played the lead opposite Uta Hagen in "The Happiest Days," and acted with Edna Best in Ferenc Molnar's "Delicate Story," and with Betty Field in Elmer Rice's "Two on an Island." He was also in a revival of Sidney Howard's  "They Knew What They Wanted," and he and his father shared the stage again in "Village Green" (1941).
        His movies included "The Human Comedy," "The Purple Heart," "Friendly Persuasion" and "Oceans 11." He was in the first live television series, "The Egg and I," and appeared in many television dramas.
        Mr. Craven was born in New York City on June 22, 1916, the third generation of an acting family. His grandfather, John T. Craven, had performed with Joseph  Jefferson and Edwin Booth. After working as an assistant stage manager for "Babes in Arms" on Broadway, Mr. Craven acted in several films. Returning to New York, he applied for a supporting role in "Our Town." Jed Harris, the director of the play, surprised him by asking him to play a principal character.
        During World War II, while stationed in Naples, Mr. Craven staged shows for the U.S.O. In 1968 he and his family moved to Barcelona, where he lived for seven years, teaching drama and directing plays. In a revival of "Our Town," he  played his father's role as the Stage Manager, and his son Frank was Doc Gibbs.
        In addition to his son Frank, he is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a daughter, Patricia; another son, Michael, and three grandchildren.
      