
        Francis Brown, the editor of The New York Times Book Review from 1949 to 1971, died yesterday at Mid-Coast Hospital in Brunswick, Me. He was 91 and lived in Topsham, Me.
        Mr. Brown, who was educated as a historian, took over the Book Review at a time when its purpose and scope were changing substantially, and when the number of books being published each year in the United States was rapidly increasing.  During his tenure, the Book Review made an effort to obtain books at least six weeks before publication to insure more thoughtful, comprehensive reviews. He also commissioned important writers to contribute essays and literary statements. James Baldwin, for example, wrote on discovering his American identity in Europe, and Saul Bellow wrote on the perils of deep reading.
        Mr. Brown, known to friends and colleagues as Brownie, tried to keep aloof from the turbulent politics of the literary world. "I've always had the sense that a book review editor shouldn't have too many friends," he once told an interviewer. "If there's one thing I've tried to do, it's to have an independent book review."
        Ernest Francis Brown was born in Amherst, Mass., and attended high school in  nearby Northampton. He earned a bachelor's degree in science from Dartmouth College in 1925 and a doctorate in history from Columbia University in 1931. While writing his dissertation, he taught history at Dartmouth.
        He first came to The Times in 1930 as an associate editor of "Current History," then a subsidiary of the newspaper. When "Current History" was sold in 1936, he joined the Sunday staff of The Times, working on the Week in Review Section, then in its infancy, under Lester Markel, the Sunday Editor. In 1942 he was named assistant to Mr. Markel, a post he held for three years. After serving as a senior editor of Time magazine from 1945 to 1949, he was named editor of the Book Review in November 1949.
        Mr. Brown wrote several books, including three biographies: "Joseph Hawley, Colonial Radical" (1931), "Edmund Niles Huyck: The Story of a Liberal" (1936) and "Raymond of The Times" (1951), a biography of Henry J. Raymond, a co-founder of the paper. He also wrote "The War in Maps: An Atlas of The New York Times Maps" (1944), which dealt with World War II. He edited several books, including  "Opinions and Perspectives from the New York Times Book Review" (1964) and "Page 2: The Best of 'Speaking of Books' From the New York Times Book Review" (1969).
        He was awarded an honorary doctorate by Dartmouth in 1952.
        Mr. Brown's wife, Mary Adden Brown, died in 1989.
        He is survived by a daughter, Victoria Bonebakker, ofPortland, Me.; a son, Francis Scott Brown, of Wilmette, Ill.; a stepson, Carter White, of Richmond, Mass.; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      