
        Elias Schwarzbart, the last surviving member of the radical band of New York  defense lawyers who went to Alabama in the 1930's and made the Scottsboro Boys case a national symbol of racial injustice, died on Wednesday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 88.
        It was Samuel S. Liebowitz, a prominent New York lawyer who later became a justice of the State Supreme Court, who served as chief counsel for the so-called Scottsboro Boys, nine black teen-agers who were repeatedly convicted of raping two white women aboard a freight train near Scottsboro, Ala., on March 25, 1931.
        But by the time Mr. Liebowitz was hired by the Communist Party to take over  the case in January 1933, Mr. Schwarzbart and other party representatives had been in Alabama for almost two years, doing the basic research and preparing the initial appeals that had already made the case a national sensation.
        It was a reflection of the temper of the times and the hysteria triggered in  the South by the mere accusation that a black man had raped a white woman, that  the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and other civil rights groups had declined to mount a defense campaign for the youths even though it had quickly become manifest that they were innocent victims of blatantly fabricated charges.
        Among other things, the nine had been found by officers searching the train for hobos, in four separate railroad cars, making it unlikely that they had participated in a single gang rape, as the women, who were found running alongside the tracks by the sheriff's raiding party, initially maintained they had.
        The N.A.A.C.P.'s reluctance to get involved in the case until the latter stages was understandable. Even after one of the accusers, a 17-year-old girl, testified that her older companion, a prostitute, had made up the story of the rape to avoid prosecution for transporting a minor across state lines for immoral purposes, juries continued to convict the youths and impose death sentences.
        A native of New York City whose father had immigrated from Poland and became  a prosperous tailor, Mr. Schwarzbart was a 24-year-old graduate of Cornell University and St. John's Law School when his uncle, Joseph Brodsky, a lawyer with International Labor Defense, the Communist Party's legal arm, sent him to Alabama shortly after the initial convictions in April 1931.
        Within two weeks of their arrest, eight of the nine defendants had been convicted and sentenced to death by four separate juries. The ninth case, against a 13-year-old youth, ended in a mistrial after conviction when a lone juror held out for life imprisonment rather than the death sentence favored by the other 11.
        One defendant was eventually convicted and sentenced to death three times. When, after his fourth conviction, he was sentenced to 75 years in prison, it was considered a great triumph for the defense team, James Goodman, the author of "Stories of Scottsboro" (Pantheon, 1994), said yesterday.
        "It was the first time a black man convicted of raping a white woman in Alabama had not gotten the death penalty," he said.
        Like others involved in the case, generally Jewish lawyers from New York, Mr. Schwarzbart, who served as associate counsel through the various appeals and the final round of trials in 1937, had reason to fear for his own safety in Alabama.
        Because of the local prejudice against New York liberals, his daughter, Ellen McKoy, recalled yesterday, the lawyers were advised to say they were from Boston. And on one occasion, she said, a sympathetic sheriff kept the entire defense team in jail overnight to protect them from a mob.
        The case led to two landmark Supreme Court decisions. One held that defendants in capital cases were entitled to legal counsel and the other barred  the systematic exclusion of black people from juries and grand juries.
        Charges against five defendants were dropped. Four received long sentences and were eventually pardoned.
        Mr. Schwarzbart, who became an assistant attorney general in Albany before going into private practice in New York, moderated his political views over the  years, becoming a self-styled neo-conservative who contributed articles to Commentary, served as United Nations correspondent for the Freedom House magazine and wrote frequent letters to The New York Times.
        But the man who helped stir the conscience of the nation by his role in a case he once described as "a lightning flash that signaled the reawakening of the civil rights movement after the long sleep since Reconstruction," never wavered on one front.
        "Until the end," Mr. Goodman said, "he felt as strongly about the need for racial justice in the legal system as he had in 1931."
        In addition to his daughter, of Anaheim Hills, Calif., he is survived by his  wife, Edna, two grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      