
        Joseph Youngerman, a onetime Hollywood prop man who became an assistant director of a string of acclaimed movies and then built the directors' union into an industry force, died on Nov. 22 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 89.
        In a creative industry in which first-line directors are often former writers, actors or free-floating auteurs with more ineffable artistic vision than expertise, Mr. Youngerman became a first choice as first assistant director. He was viewed as a nuts-and-bolts man, a master of backlot trades who  knew which switches to flick, which knobs to turn and which egos to massage.
        He was a top sergeant's top sergeant," his friend, Chuck Warren, the spokesman for the directors' union, said yesterday. He said that directors prized Mr. Youngerman's technical skills and producers loved him because he knew how to keep up with money, an alien province for some directors.
        Over 70 years in Hollywood, Mr. Youngerman had two virtually distinct careers. Beginning at Paramount in 1926, he rose from assistant prop man to head of backlot operations after working as assistant director on nearly 100 movies,  including "Beau Geste" (1936), "Men With Wings" (1938), "The Light That Failed"  (1939), "Sullivan's Travels" (1941), "So Proudly We Hail" (1943) and "For Whom the Bell Tolls" (1943).
        For all his movie credits, Mr. Youngerman, who also directed a series of films for the Signal Corps in World War II, was said to be proudest of his work  as executive secretary of what became the Directors Guild of America, a union he built from a loose association of 900 movie directors and assistant directors in 1950 into what is now a 10,000-member industry giant.
        The 9th of 10 children, Mr. Youngerman, whose parents were immigrants from Russia, was born in the South Side of Chicago. He made his way to Los Angeles as a teen-ager, working initially as an electrician's assistant. When a dance hall  for which he worked went out of business in 1926, still owing him money, one of  the owners used his connections to get him a job in the Paramount prop department.
        He may have known film making from the props up, but what Mr. Youngerman knew best was people, many in the industry said. He was a favorite of countless movie figures, from 8-year-old Jackie Cooper, who was in awe of the affable young man  who handed him his prop slingshot in "Skippy" in 1930, to Mr. Cooper's uncle, Norman Taurog, that movie's director.
        "I fell in love with him and so did my uncle," Mr. Cooper said yesterday, noting it was his uncle who promoted Mr. Youngerman to first assistant director, on "Rhythm on the Range," a 1936 Bing Crosby vehicle.
        Among the other directors who appreciated his talents were Josef von Sternberg, Ernst Lubitsch, Rouben Mamoulian, Cecil B. DeMille, and especially William Wellman. Mr. Wellman, who used Mr. Youngerman on five movies, paid him the ultimate tribute by leaving it to him to film the enormously intricate battle scenes between the British Army and the Fuzzy Wuzzies in "The Light That  Failed" (1939).
        In 1950, after five years as Paramount's production chief, Mr. Youngerman switched careers, signing on as executive secretary of the Screen Directors Guild. Within a decade he had strengthened the union, engineering a crucial merger with the Radio and Television Directors Guild to form the Directors Guild of America. He developed such a level of trust with studio heads that when he woke up one night in 1960 with a novel idea for a lavish pension system, he was  able to negotiate it without a strike.
        He is survived by his wife, Molly; two children, Arthur and Barbara, both of  Los Angeles, 12 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      