
        Brian Lenihan, a former Deputy Prime Minister who was defeated by Mary Robinson in Ireland's 1990 presidential campaign, died here today. He was 64.
        The cause was a liver ailment, according to Meath Hospital in Dublin.
        Mr. Lenihan was one of the country's leading politicians for nearly 40 years and an important official in several Governments run by his party, Fianna Fail.  He was Foreign Minister three times in the 1970's and 1980's and Deputy Prime Minister in a Government led by Prime Minister Charles J. Haughey.
        He was born in Dundalk, County Louth, on the border with the British province of Northern Ireland and was credited with trying to improve relations between the North, which is predominantly Protestant, and the overwhelmingly Roman Catholic Irish Republic.
        In particular, he sought to smooth differences between North and South during the Catholic hunger strikes in a British prison in the North in the early 1980's.
        In 1989 he had a liver transplant at the Mayo Clinic in the United States. His party nominated him to run for the presidency and, enjoying the sympathy vote after the successful operation left him looking gaunt and tired, he was favored to defeat Mrs. Robinson, a liberal lawyer who was the candidate of the smaller Labor Party.
        But during the campaign he changed his account of his role in a political dispute in 1982, which experts said cost him votes. He defeated Mrs. Robinson in the first round of vote-counting in the 1990 election, but she won on the second round, by a margin of 52 per cent to 47. She is the first woman to be President  of Ireland.
        In defeat he was gracious, and in an interview in 1992 said: "She speaks in a wide international cosmopolitan sense. She sees Ireland's future in a wider sense."
        Mr. Lenihan's role in Irish political life was diminished after his defeat, but he is described in "Who's Who in Irish Politics" as a man with "humor, incredible mental toughness, total lack of malice and 'no problem' philosophy."
        He wrote articles on Irish history and book reviews. When the current Northern Ireland peace effort began to accelerate two years ago, he served the Government of former Prime Minister Albert Reynolds through contacts with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army.
        Among his survivors is his sister, Mary O'Rourke, a member of Parliament and  a former government minister.
      