
        Bruno Pittini, who for years was one of the most important men in the lives of some of the world's most glamorous women, died in a hospital in Garches, a suburb of Paris, on Nov. 9. A hair stylist of renown on both sides of the Atlantic, he was 50 and lived in Paris.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, a spokesman said.
        For 25 years, Mr. Pittini was the creative force behind the 360 Jacques Dessange beauty salons around the world. He met Mr. Dessange in 1964 and within  five years, was his star hair cutter. Although he ended his connection with the  Dessange organization in the early 1990's, at his death he had rejoined it and was the international creative director of the group, now grown to more than 600 salons.
        Mr. Pittini opened Bruno Dessange, the New York salon, in 1984, in partnership with Mr. Dessange, bringing with him from Paris three young men, including Frederic Fekkai, now at Bergdorf Goodman and considered one of the city's leading hair stylists.
        In the black and white high-tech-look salon, Mr. Pittini, wearing a blue outfit and a hairband, styled the hair of Jodie Foster and Jessica Lange, gave Raquel Welch a gamine look, created a short crop for Rachel Ward and wielded comb and scissors on male stars like Dustin Hoffman and Donald Sutherland.
        "We are creating not pret-a-porter but haute couture," he was once quoted as  saying.
        When Mr. Pittini ended his relationship with Mr. Dessange in 1991, he opened  two salons for a time that carried his own name, at 746 Madison Avenue, near 65th Street, and in Paris. Like most of the men and women in his profession, he  was known by his first name, but becoming a client of Bruno was indeed haute in  the hair business. A decade ago, his cuts were already $85, and by 1994 his price had risen to $250. He returned to Paris in 1993.
        Mr. Pittini was born in Lyons, France, in 1945, of an Italian father and a French mother who was a couturier. His parents had hoped he would become an engineer, but his future was spelled out when he began cutting his sisters' hair as a child.
        He became a hairdresser in Paris, achieved a reputation as a stylist and developed a fast and unusual cutting technique. The technique, cutting hair as though it were fabric, was said to have been influenced by his mother's profession. He soon had an appointment book filled with names like Brigitte Bardot and Catherine Deneuve. Miss Deneuve and Mr. Sutherland attended the funeral services in Paris on Nov. 13.
        Mr. Pittini is survived by three sisters, Denise, Eliane and Arlette, all of  Lyons.
      