
        Edith Haggard, a New York literary agent whose clients ranged from an important group of proper British writers to the cantankerous Sinclair Lewis, died on Thursday in the Whitney Pavilion of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        In her 30-year career, Mrs. Haggard, who spent five years with the William Morris agency's literary department before joining the Curtis Brown agency in 1937, became one of the city's best-known agents, representing clients like Adela Rogers St. Johns, Nunnally Johnson, Phyllis McGinley, Vera Caspary and Ogden Nash.
        A small blond woman whose delicate features were once likened to porcelain,  Mrs. Haggard was also a central figure in the literary social whirl.
        Invitations to her annual New Year's Eve parties were coveted, in part because many of her famous clients and other acclaimed poets and novelists would inevitably be present, and in part because she was a particularly thoughtful hostess. Mindful that cabs are hard to come by in the wee hours of New Year's Day, she engaged a car and driver to take her guests home.
        In addition to a long list of American clients, Mrs. Haggard handled several  British authors, including C. P. Snow, Daphne Du Maurier, Joyce Cary, Richard Llewellyn and Rumer Godden.
        In an era when leading magazines had voracious appetites for short fiction, she was almost an adjunct editor for The Saturday Evening Post, making weekly trips to its headquarters in Philadelphia.
        Mrs. Haggard was born in New York and graduated from Brooklyn Heights Seminary before beginning her literary career, initially at Delineator magazine. There she became associate editor and fell in love with her supervisor, Sewell Haggard, the magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
        Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again. For the rest of her life she was listed in the Manhattan telephone directory as Mrs. Sewell Haggard.
        After her retirement in 1962, she liked to reminisce about her former clients, none of whom, by her account, gave her as much trouble as Sinclair Lewis, a notoriously irascible man, especially when he had been drinking.
        There was some evidence that Mr. Lewis felt remorseful about his abusive treatment of his long-suffering agent. When he died in 1951 he left her a legacy in his will.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      