
        Metropolitan Ioann, the fervently nationalist head of the Russian Orthodox Church in the St. Petersburg and Ladoga diocese, died on Thursday in St. Petersburg. He was 68.
        He had suffered from a heart ailment for several years and died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Metropolitan Ioann (pronounced ee-oh-AHN) led his diocese, Russia's second-largest, since 1990.
        He often left the impression that he despised foreigners and Jews, a position he denied. Still, on television and in print, he warned darkly against Protestant fundamentalists and even the mythical conspirators of "The Protocols  of Elders of Zion."
        In an interview two years ago, he railed against "the filth directly channeled here from America," a reference not just to pornography but also to proselytizing missionaries, whom he wanted the Government to keep out of Russia. He blamed the country's problems variously on Jews, rampant capitalism and Muslims from the Caucasus.
        His views sometimes brought him into conflict with the Moscow diocese, Russia's largest. But some nationalists saw him as something of an icon.
        "I don't aspire to be a banner or a symbol of the nationalist movement," he told the interviewer in 1993. "I feel it my duty, living here in my motherland,  to warn of the dangers threatening my flock."
        His wrath was directed also at Communism, which tightly reined in the Russian Orthodox Church. When St. Petersburg agreed in 1993 to have Lenin interred at a  local cemetery next to his mother, Metropolitan Ioann refused him a burial service.
        Though Lenin was baptized, Ioann accused him of having abused the church all  his life. "I myself will never pray for him," he said. "It is a crime for any clergyman."
        The Metropolitan was born Ivan Snychev in a peasant village in the Ukrainian  Soviet republic. Religious from childhood, he served in the army in World War II, then entered the novitiate. He graduated from Leningrad Theological Academy  in 1955 and taught at the Minsk Theological Seminary. He rose quickly in the hierarchy, and by 1976 was elevated to archbishop.
      