
        David Schneider, whose pioneering studies of kinship in Chicago have been credited with altering the course of cultural anthropology and inspiring a generation of feminist scholars, died on Monday at his home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 76 and had been a professor at the University of Chicago and later at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        His son Michael said the cause of death was a heart attack or a stroke.
        Mr. Schneider, a native of New York, studied at Cornell and Harvard, and taught at Harvard, the London School of Economics and Berkeley before going to Chicago in 1960. Like virtually every prominent anthropologist before him, he put in his time studying so-called primitive peoples, in his case on the Pacific island of Yap in the late 1940's.
        But for all the torrent of Yap-based studies he turned out throughout his career, none matched the impact of the slender volume he produced in 1968 after  turning his anthropologist's eye on the people he found living around him in Chicago.
        The book, "American Kinship: A Cultural Account" (Prentice-Hall), challenged  the very underpinnings of anthropological theory.
        Few aspects of human behavior had been studied as much as kinship. But before Mr. Schneider's work, kinship had been largely viewed as an all but universally  uniform system widely assumed to have been grounded in nature, particularly the  nature of blood relationships.
        As for the obvious, observable differences in kinship systems among different peoples, the very anthropologists who charted them in meticulous detail tended to dismiss them as minor variations of a common theme that were attributable to  differences in climate, geography, economics and the like.
        To Mr. Schneider, however, kinship was not a natural system founded on blood, or "that thin red liquid," as he called it, but instead an entire culture of powerful symbols and meanings.
        In the United States, for example, as in other Western cultures, Mr. Schneider saw the concept of birth as such a powerful symbol of national unity that the very word "nation" is derived from the Latin for born.
        Mr. Schneider, regarded as a father of symbolic, or interpretive, anthropology, did some of his most important work in the classroom and the lecture hall. Although not known as a spellbinding speaker, his closely reasoned presentations of his innovative ideas had such an impact on his students that an uncommon number of them became impassioned devotees of him and his work, forever dedicating their own scholarly works to him.
        For all the groundbreaking nature of his own ideas, Mr. Schneider was apparently taken unawares when a new generation of scholars, many of them his former students, extended his theories of kinship to sex roles.
        If kinship is based on culture rather than nature, they reasoned, the same could be said of sex roles.
        Much to his surprise and delight, in his later years Mr. Schneider, who taught two years at Santa Cruz after leaving Chicago in 1985, became the center  of a far-flung kinship system of his own making, serving as a sort of doting godfather to a network of feminist scholars like Carol Delaney and Sylvia Yanagisako at Stanford, Esther Newton at the State University of New York at Purchase and Susan McKinnon at the University of Virginia.
        They were forever calling him to pick his brains and receive the encouragement they say he never failed to provide.
        If he did not regard them as his daughters, it was probably because he knew that scholarship was much thicker than blood.
        In addition to Michael, of Albuquerque, N.M., he is survived by another son,  Jonathan, of Milwaukee, and a brother, Herbert, of Boston.
      