
        Murray Sprung, a onetime war crimes prosecutor, Manhattan-based international lawyer and plain Pop to a generation of orphaned boys and girls, died on Monday  at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. A resident of the Upper West Side, he was 92.
        Mr. Sprung practiced general law from 1929 until he retired last year. For many years, he also had an office in Tokyo, where he was allowed to practice law after World War II despite Japan's closed policy toward foreign professionals.
        While attending St. John's University School of Law, he started a lifelong association with the old Hebrew Orphan Asylum and its alumni. He was a counselor, and for 20 years directed its summer camp for boys, Wakitan, near Bear Mountain State Park.
        The home, on Amsterdam Avenue, closed in 1941 but Mr. Sprung kept in touch at gatherings of its former wards and their growing families. He conducted annual seders for them until his health slowed him down.
        One alumnus, the columnist Art Buchwald, referred to him as "our Father Flanigan." Some years ago, a Pop Sprung Camp Fund was established in his honor to uphold the tradition of summer relief for children who otherwise could not afford it.
        Some of the former wards recalled that the orphanage, a huge red brick building that was demolished in 1955, could be a grim place. To them, Mr. Sprung instead meant canoeing, hiking and swimming, and he was against corporal punishment. Mr. Sprung and his wife, Mary, preferred to treat the children as their extended family.
        "I felt that the best way to deal with youngsters," he said at a reunion in 1984, "was not by fear but by friendship."
        Mr. Sprung's international exposure came at the end of World War II, when he  was posted to the staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur's War Crimes Tribunals in the  Philippines and then Tokyo, where he helped prosecute military personnel charged with war crimes.
        The experience started a lasting appreciation of Japan and its people. He served as president of the Kyoto College of Foreign Languages and had a part in  running George's, a fashionable Tokyo restaurant in the 1950's. In the United States, he was active in the Japanese American Citizens League, fighting prejudice against Americans of Japanese ancestry.
        Mr. Sprung is survived by his wife of nearly 64 years, Mary Norkin Sprung; a  daughter, Peggy Neimeth of Manhattan; a son, John, of Brooklyn, six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      