
        State Senator Joseph L. Galiber, a Bronx Democrat who took unpopular stands on crime and drug addiction and survived major scandals to remain a power in city politics for three decades, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 71.
        He had suffered a heart attack about a year ago, his office said.
        Mr. Galiber was first elected to the Senate in 1968, from the old 31st District. At the time of his death, he represented the 33d District, covering part of the Bronx and Westchester County.
        Mr. Galiber was an early supporter of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, an old friend  from Benjamin Franklin High School in East Harlem, in Mr. Moynihan's successful  campaign for the United States Senate in 1976.
        Mr. Galiber studied problems stemming from drug addiction, and he came to advocate legalization of some drugs. He was an early supporter of methadone-maintenance programs to wean drug users from addiction. In urging that some drugs be legalized, he argued that the move would save billions of dollars  spent on futile enforcement of drug laws.
        But the Senator took pains to distinguish addicts in need of help from the "major pushers of hard drugs" who preyed upon them. The latter people, he said in campaign literature, belong "in the same class as murderers and kidnappers."
        Mr. Galiber was an early and vocal skeptic about the efficacy of mandatory-sentencing laws -- laws enacted roughly from the 1970's onward that have reduced judges' discretion to give defendants probation or relatively light terms for certain kinds of crimes.
        In 1977, Mr. Galiber was one of four senators to oppose a bill requiring a prison term for anyone convicted of using or displaying a firearm while committing a felony. Mr. Galiber argued that, political popularity aside, the bill would not deter criminals from using guns.
        Mr. Galiber ran unsuccessfully for City Comptroller in 1973 and for Bronx Borough President in 1979. His 1973 race for Comptroller occasioned embarrassment as well as defeat. In 1974, Mayor Abraham D. Beame said he would name him Deputy Mayor for his new administration. But Mr. Beame reversed himself a week later when questions arose about the financing in Mr. Galiber's 1973 campaign. A Bronx grand jury eventually cleared Mr. Galiber.
        In 1977, a Federal grand jury indicted Mr. Galiber and four other men on charges that they conspired to defraud the Government through a real estate scheme financed by antipoverty funds. The Senator immediately declared that he would be "totally and completely vindicated," and he was, in a trial the next year.
        Several years later, Mr. Galiber was a principal in a more sensational case.  He was one of eight men indicted by a Bronx grand jury on charges of scheming to defraud the New York City Transit Authority of $7.4 million on a subway construction project in the late 1970's and early 1980's. Prosecutors said the plot involved the creation of a fictitious minority-owned company by Mr. Galiber and his partner.
        The most prominent defendant was President Ronald Reagan's new Labor Secretary, Raymond J. Donovan. Mr. Donovan and five executives of his New Jersey construction company were accused of conspiring with a Bronx construction and trucking company in which Mr. Galiber was a partner.
        All defendants were acquitted after an eight-month trial. Several jurors said they thought the case was politically motivated.
        Mr. Galiber was a lifelong resident of the Bronx. In World War II, he was an  Army staff sergeant in the Red Ball Express, the truck caravan that supplied Gen. George S. Patton's troops in their rapid advance through France.
        Mr. Galiber achieved a measure of fame in sports long before he entered politics. Standing 6 feet 4, he played guard and center and was a co-captain on  the 1949-50 City College of New York basketball team, the only team to win both  the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament and the National Invitation Tournament.
        Mr. Galiber's wife, Emma, died earlier this year. He is survived by his parents, Joseph and Ethel Galiber of the Bronx; a daughter, Ruby Wint of Putnam  Valley, N.Y., and two granddaughters. Another daughter, Pamela, died some years  ago.
      