
        William Marchant, who wrote "The Desk Set" and other plays, died on Nov. 5 at Bergen Pines County Hospital in Paramus, N.J. He was 72.
        His body was unclaimed in the hospital morgue until this week.
        Mr. Marchant had been a resident of the Actors Fund of America Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J., before moving to the hospital last year. Before that, he lived in Stanton, N.J., in a house owned by the actress Dorothy  Stickney, said Kenneth Stadnik, a neighbor. Mr. Stadnik said that until he and other friends learned of Mr. Marchant's death, the hospital was preparing to bury him in a pauper's grave.
        Although Mr. Marchant wrote other plays, screenplays and novels and a book about his friendship with Noel Coward, he was known principally as the author of "The Desk Set," a comedy that was both a Broadway play starring Shirley Booth and a Spencer Tracy-Katharine Hepburn movie.
        In the play, which ran in 1955, Miss Booth played the head librarian of a television and radio company. Beset by an efficiency expert, she battled bureaucracy. In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson praised Miss Booth as radiating "humor and charm all evening," but said that the play was inadequate. "The Desk Set" ran for 297 performances. In 1957, with a screenplay  by Phoebe and Henry Ephron, the play became a Tracy-Hepburn movie.
        Mr. Marchant, who was born in Allentown, Pa., attended Temple University and  the Yale University School of Drama. During World War II, he served in the United States Army. His play "Within a Glass Bell" was produced at the Westport  Country Playhouse in 1950, followed two years later by "To Be Continued," on Broadway. "To Be Continued" was produced and directed by Guthrie McClintic and starred Miss Stickney, Neil Hamilton and Jean Dixon, with Grace Kelly cast in a  supporting role. Despite that stellar lineup, the play closed after 13 performances. Mr. Marchant also wrote a memoir, "Noel Coward Remembered," and two novels, "Firebird" and "Gondolier."
      