
        James M. Yeargin, who was one of the first black prosecutors in the Manhattan District Attorney's office and who later served 12 years as a Criminal Court judge, died on Nov. 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        From the time he was named an assistant by District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey  in 1938 until he was appointed to the bench by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1966, Mr. Yeargin was one of the busiest and most visible prosecutors in New York.
        That was partly because he had a reputation as a painstakingly meticulous lawyer whose cases tended to stick, and partly because he spent his first 20 years in the high-profile homicide bureau prosecuting headline criminals, including several who had killed police officers.
        That Mr. Yeargin had a highly successful career in one of the nation's most demanding and prestigious offices was hardly as surprising in the 1940's and 50's as the fact he got the job in the first place.
        Although he was not the first black prosecutor in New York, it was a reflection of the times that as recently as 1953, 15 years after he was hired, Mr. Yeargin was one of only three black assistant district attorneys in the office.
        Mr. Yeargin insisted throughout his career that he had run up against no racial barriers. "His only regret was that he didn't have an Ivy League education," his son, James Jr., said yesterday, noting that the office attracted a number of brilliant and well-heeled dollar-a-year graduates of Ivy League schools.
        A native of Spring Hope, N.C., Mr. Yeargin, who had white as well as black ancestry, grew up in Raleigh in an atmosphere that encouraged ambition. His grandfather, trained as a slave to operate a foundry, opened his own foundry after the Civil War. For years it was listed as the only black-owned foundry in  the United States.
        Mr. Yeargin, whose father opened an insurance and real estate business after  the foundry burned in 1939, worked at the foundry as a child and could have remained in a family business in North Carolina. But after graduating from Shaw  University in Raleigh, he sought greater opportunities in New York.
        Holding a daytime job with the old Home Relief bureau, he worked his way through St. John's University law school, taking courses at night and obtaining  a bachelor's degree in 1935 and a master's degree the next year.
        Setting up a private practice in Manhattan, Mr. Yeargin came to the attention of Mr. Dewey while working in his campaign for District Attorney in 1937. When Mr. Dewey took office in January 1938, Mr. Yeargin was one of his first appointments.
        In addition to prosecuting high-profile cases, Mr. Yeargin made headlines, himself, in one case, in 1947, for making New York State legal history by winning two death sentences and two life sentences for a couple convicted of murdering two Chinese businessmen. It was the first time a defendant in New York had been tried simultaneously for two murders committed in different places at different times.
        Mr. Yeargin, repeatedly reappointed by Mr. Dewey's successor, Frank S. Hogan, spent his last eight years in the District Attorney's office as chief of the trials bureau. There he supervised some 4,000 felony cases a year and directed a staff of 14 trial assistants, among them a sometimes overly expressive prosecutor named Burton B. Roberts.
        Mr. Roberts would sometimes get so worked up during a case that as his supervisor, Mr. Yeargin found it prudent to sit behind the prosecution table in  an effort to rein him in. It didn't always work. When Mr. Roberts exploded during a 1965 trial, for example, and called the defense lawyer a "skunk," all Mr. Yeargin could do was bury his face in his hands.
        Mr. Roberts, who later became a State Supreme Court justice, is now in charge of the Bronx court system.
        Mr. Yeargin, who made an unsuccessful run for a judgeship as a Republican in  1950, retired as a Criminal Court judge in 1978, two years after being reappointed to the bench by Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
        In addition to his son, of Manhattan, Mr. Yeargin is survived by three sisters, Mamie Jones of Greensboro, N.C., Isabelle Broome of Florence, S.C., and Willie McCullers of West Columbia, S.C., and one grandchild.
      