
        Ernest L. Boyer, who helped to shape American education as Chancellor of the  State University of New York, as United States Commissioner of Education and as  President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 67.
        Dr. Boyer had been treated for lymphoma for nearly three years, his assistant, Bob Hochstein, said.
        Dr. Boyer also was the author of a number of reports for the Carnegie Foundation, a nonprofit policy study center in Princeton that has often set the  nation's education agenda.
        In 1987, when he detected that one of the major ills of higher education was  that research was elbowing aside teaching, he wrote "College: The Undergraduate  Experience in America" (Harper & Row), in which he argued that "at every research university, teaching should be valued as highly as research." The book  stimulated the present college movement that holds that much research is pointless and even harmful insofar as it distracts teachers from students.
        In 1990, Dr. Boyer developed this theme in another book, "Scholarship Reconsidered" (Carnegie Foundation), in which he maintained that teaching, service and the integration of knowledge across disciplines should be recognized as the equal of research.
        Another of his reports, "High School: A Report on Secondary Education" (Harper & Row, 1983), had an impact even before it was published. When officials at the United States Department of Education learned that Dr. Boyer, a former Federal Commissioner of Education, was working on a report describing the inadequacies of secondary public education and proposing a series of changes, they decided to start their own study, which came to be called "A Nation at Risk."
        Published a few months ahead of Dr. Boyer's report, "A Nation at Risk" was frequently described as a national wake-up call, spelling out the failure of the public high schools to provide students with basic knowledge and skills.
        Dr. Boyer's report helped focus the ensuing discussion on specific plans like raising requirements for high school graduation, improving teacher certification and lengthening the school day.
        Because the Carnegie study had been underwritten by a sizable grant from the  Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Dr. Boyer was able to back up his ideas with financial rewards and incentives. In 1983, he dispersed $600,000 to 200 schools  that were seen to be striving for "excellence"and two years later, he awarded grants of $25,000 to $50,000 to 25 high schools that were perceived to have improved their curriculums, teacher training and community ties.
        Dr. Boyer believed the nation's most urgent education problem was high schools. Pointing to the high dropout rate among minorities, he expressed fear that "the current move to add more course requirements will lead to more failure among inner-city students unless we also have smaller classes, better counseling and more creative teaching."
        He also felt that education improvements were bypassing too many impoverished children, with consequences for the future of the country. He advocated programs in nutrition, prenatal care for teen-age mothers, and more day care with summer  classes and preschool education.
        Among his other books, whose titles reflected his concerns, were "Campus Life" (1990), "Ready to Learn" (1991) and "The Basic School" (1995), all published by the Carnegie Foundation.
        Dr. Boyer had been working on a book, "Scholarship Assessed," in which he was attempting to establish a means of measuring successful teaching and service so  that they could be better rewarded.
        In a statement released yesterday, President Clinton said: "The nation has lost one of its most dedicated and influential education reformers. Ernest Boyer was a distinguished scholar and educator whose work will help students well into the next century."
        A compelling orator who never tired of his role as an evangelist of education, Dr. Boyer was a sought-after lecturer on such issues as the need for  adult education away from a campus, overbearing academic management ("Bureaucratic mandates from above can, in the end, produce more confusion than  programs"), and the decline of teaching civics and government in schools ("Civics illiteracy is spreading, and unless we educate ourselves as citizens, we run the risk of drifting unwittingly into a new Dark Age").
        He was also a busy consultant, in recent years having advised governments like the People's Republic of China on educational policy.
        Ernest LeRoy Boyer was born in Dayton, Ohio, on Sept. 13, 1928, one of the three sons of Clarence and Ethel Boyer. His father managed a wholesale book store and ran a mail-order greeting-card and office-supply business from the basement of the family home. Dr. Boyer once said that the most influential figure in his early life was his paternal grandfather, William Boyer, who was head of the Dayton Mission of the Brethren in Christ Church and who directed him toward "a people-centered life."
        Dr. Boyer attended Greenville College, a small liberal arts school in Illinois, and went on to study at Ohio State University. He received his master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Southern California. He was a post-doctoral fellow in medical audiology at the University of Iowa Hospital.
        He then taught and served in administrative posts at Loyola University in Los Angeles, Upland College and the University of California at Santa Barbara. At Upland College, he introduced a widely emulated program in which the mid-year term, the month of January, became a period in which students did not attend classes but pursued individual projects. It was at Upland that he decided to devote his career to educational administration.
        In 1965, he moved east to join the vast SUNY system as its first executive dean. Five years later, he became Chancellor of the institution and its 64 campuses, 350,000 students and 15,000 faculty members.
        His seven-year term was a period of innovation. He founded the Empire State College at Saratoga Springs and four other locations as noncampus SUNY schools at which adults could study for degrees without attending classes. He also set up an experimental three-year Bachelor of Arts program; established a new rank,  Distinguished Teaching Professor, to reward faculty members of educational distinction as well as research, and established one of the first student-exchange programs with the Soviet Union.
        Dr. Boyer served on commissions to advise President Richard M. Nixon and President Gerald R. Ford. In 1977, he left SUNY after President Jimmy Carter appointed him to lead the United States Commission on Education, thus becoming the agency's last Commissioner before Congress elevated the position to cabinet  rank.
        Toward the end of the Carter Administration, disappointed that Congress had failed to elevate the Commission on Education to a Cabinet-level department, Dr. Boyer accepted an invitation to succeed Alan Pifer as president of the Carnegie  Foundation. He expanded the scope of his position to go beyond the study of higher education and to study education at every level, bringing the resources of the foundation to bear on the earliest years of a child's education.
        Even when confined to a hospital bed last month, Dr. Boyer continued to keep  up on developments in education, reacting to an announcement by the University of Rochester that it was downsizing both its student body and faculty in order to improve quality and attract better students.
        "I think we're headed into a totally new era," he said. "After World War II,  we built a nation of institutions of higher learning based on expansion. Research was everything, and undergraduates were marginalized. Now, time is running out on that."
        Later in November, responding to the appointment of William M. Bulger, the longtime president of the Massachusetts State Senate, as President of the University of Massachusetts, Dr. Boyer deplored the trend of naming prominent politicians to lead colleges and universities.
        "It's disturbing to see university leaders chosen on the basis of their political strengths," Dr. Boyer said. "A university president with strong academic credentials is a symbolic figure who can speak out on the great issues  in a way that a political leader cannot."
        "If you appoint political figures to these offices," he continued, "you have  more political voices being heard, but they're being heard already. You need the other voices. Without the voices with strong academic credentials behind them, you can even imagine a time in the future when a politicized university administration and a politicized board of trustees would be hugely impatient with academic freedom."
        Dr. Boyer held more than 130 honorary degrees, including the Charles Frankel  Prize in the Humanities, a Presidential citation.
        He is survived by his wife, Kathryn, and four children, Ernest Jr., of Brookline, Mass., Beverly Coyle of Princeton, N.J., Craig, of Belize and Paul, of Chestertown, Md.
      