
        Al Stump, the sportswriter and ghostwriter whose two versions of the life of  Ty Cobb provided contrasting portraits of the tempestuous baseball immortal, died on Thursday in Hoag Memorial Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. Mr. Stump, who lived in Newport Beach, was 79.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, according to his wife, Jo Mosher.
        Although Mr. Stump was a prolific writer whose subjects ranged from the champion golfer Sam Snead to basketball referees, his best-known account was a twice-told tale. The first version of the Cobb story, with Mr. Stump as collaborator, was published in 1961 as Cobb's autobiography under the title "My  Life in Baseball: The True Record." Ostensibly straightforward and frank, it nonetheless was a self-justifying portrait of the man who was as mean as he was  gifted.
        "The first book was a cover-up," Mr. Stump said last year when his revised version of Cobb's life came out. "I felt very bad about it. I felt I wasn't being a good newspaperman."
        Mr. Stump redressed matters in "Cobb: A Biography," which also served as the  basis for "Cobb," a 1994 film by Ron Shelton that starred Tommy Lee Jones as a bitter, old Georgia Peach and Robert Wuhl as Mr. Stump. Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The New York Times called the biography "fascinating" for its portrayal of the "megalomania, cruelty, violent racism and irrational penuriousness" that characterized Cobb's evolution into the monster Mr. Stump met in 1960 when they split $6,000 from Doubleday to write "My Life in Baseball."
        Several other writers had already quit on Cobb or were dismissed. "Boy, was he tough and irascible," said Mr. Stump, who was himself to quit twice and be dismissed once before Cobb talked him into resuming the project. "He could be very persuasive," Mr. Stump said.
        After Cobb died at 74 in 1961, Mr. Stump published an article in True magazine that provided a frightening glimpse of the 10 months they spent together while working on the book. Cobb was battling cancer, swilling Scotch and gin, downing medication without regard for proper dosage, swearing at doctors, impotent, living in homes without electicity or telephones, gambling, picking fights and toting a Luger and a bag full of stock certificates.
        A few years ago, Mr. Stump sent that article and another chapter to Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, N.C., which then commissioned the biography.
        "I feel good about this," Mr. Stump said after he finished. "It feels good to lay it on the line."
        Mr. Stump, whose full first name was Alvin, was born in Colorado Springs, Colo. He began writing about sports while a student at the University of Wisconsin. During World War II, he was a war correspondent, and afterward wrote  on sports for The Saturday Evening Post, True and Esquire. He also reported for  the Los Angeles Times and the Los Angeles Herald Examiner.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Stump is survived by four children, Shannon McDicar of Seattle; Sherry Freeman of Zurich; Dr. Abbe Hopkins of Palo Alto, Calif., and John Stump of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Robin Harper of Seattle and Sherry Waterman of Huntington Beach, Calif., and numerous grandchildren.
      