
        Homer Thornberry, the longtime Texas Congressman and United States Court of Appeals judge who lost an appointment to the Supreme Court in 1968 because of a  controversy involving the man he had been named to replace, died early yesterday at his home in Austin. He was 86 and until a month ago had continued to work as  a senior judge in the Fifth Circuit.
        When President Lyndon B. Johnson decided to elevate his buddy, Abe Fortas, from Associate Justice of the Supreme Court to Chief Justice of the United States, the President did not have to look far for someone to take the Fortas seat on the Court.
        Judge Thornberry, who had left Congress to become a Federal district judge in 1963 and who had been named to the Fifth Circuit two years later, was even more of a Johnson crony than Justice Fortas was.
        The two men, who had known each other as fellow Democratic politicians in Austin, had grown far closer after Mr. Johnson was elected to the Senate in 1948 and Mr. Thornberry claimed his seat in the House.
        When Mr. Johnson was recuperating from a heart attack in 1955, for example, Mr. Thornberry was a daily visitor, playing dominoes with such calculated care that the patient never lost a game.
        And when Mr. Johnson was suddenly propelled into the Presidency after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963, Mr. Thornberry, who had been  confirmed for the bench the previous summer but had not yet resigned from the House, actually moved into the Elms, the Johnsons' home in Washington, to help with the difficult transition.
        Although his status as a Johnson crony raised some eyebrows in 1968, and although there were some rumblings from Southern politicians that he had declared the Texas poll tax unconstitutional (as the Supreme Court later confirmed it was) Mr. Thornberry never had a chance to be judged on his merits.
        When a Republican filibuster blocked the Fortas appointment, leaving no court vacancy to fill, the Thornberry nomination died without a Senate vote and without tarnishing the Judge's reputation.
        Indeed, in the years that followed he justified the fears of Southern politicians by becoming a consistent voice for racial justice in a cascade of important civil rights cases.
        His term as a judge and his role in the 1968 judicial episode of musical chairs overshadowed what had been one of the more remarkable political success stories in Texas.
        The son of parents who could neither hear nor speak, he learned to sign before he could talk. As Judge Thornberry, an eminently garrulous man who would as soon chat with a plowman as with a potentate, never tired of relating,  he did not speak until he was 3 and spent the rest of his life making up for lost time.
        Mr. Thornberry, whose parents were so poor they could not afford windowpanes  for several years after his carpenter father built their house, worked his way through the University of Texas and its law school by serving as a deputy sheriff, a job he was able to give up when he was elected to the Texas Legislature while still in law school.
        He later became district attorney and served in naval intelligence in World War II before opening a private law practice and serving on the Austin City Council and as acting Mayor, a position that helped lay the foundation for a reputation for integrity that was distinctly excessive by Texas standards.
        When his clients asked him to fix their parking tickets, Mr. Thornberry paid  the fines himself rather than violate his notion of public trust.
        In Washington, where his Texas mentor, Sam Rayburn, was Speaker of the House, Mr. Thornberry was even more of an anomaly, according to Bill Wiley, a former Thornberry legislative aide who is now a lawyer in Washington.
        "He actually lived on his salary," Mr. Wiley said yesterday, still marveling  at how long his boss clung to his old Mercury after repeated breakdowns.
        In the House, Mr. Thornberry's voting record grew progressively more liberal  over the years, and by the time he was named to the bench by President Kennedy in 1963 he was such an important liberal voice on the powerful House Rules Committee that he agreed to delay his departure for months to prevent being replaced by a Southern Democrat unsympathetic to the Kennedy program.
        He is survived by his wife, Marian; three children from a previous marriage,  Molly Matlock of McAllen, Tex., David of Austin and Kate Tomlin of Houston, and  two grandsons.
      