
        James B. Reston, the New York Times reporter and columnist, was hailed today  as a man "who towered over the times in which he lived" -- "a hero to some of the most skeptical people in the world."
        The words were those of Katharine Graham, the chairwoman of the executive committee of the Washington Post Company, a personal friend and professional rival of Scotty Reston's for more than four decades. She delivered one of three  eulogies at his funeral this morning at St. Alban's Church on the grounds of the National Cathedral, along with Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman of The New York  Times Company, and Tom Wicker, a retired Times columnist, who succeeded Mr. Reston as the paper's top Washington correspondent.
        Mr. Reston, the recipient of two Pulitzer Prizes, 28 honorary degrees and countless other honors, died on Wednesday night of cancer at the age of 86.
        During the cold war, on which he reported from Washington and a half-dozen other capitals, he had unrivaled access to the great men of public life. Many were not only his sources but his friends, which enabled him to assess and to explain to a wide audience the complex questions of life and death that haunted  the age. His undying optimism prompted him to look beyond the tawdry and the transitory.
        Mr. Sulzberger, whose father, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, hired Mr. Reston as his personal assistant more than 50 years ago, spoke of a "Reston-Sulzberger bond that has lasted and strengthened through three generations." Mr. Sulzberger's son, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., is the present publisher of the newspaper.
        "His impact on The Times was profound and lasting," Mr. Sulzberger said. "He  was a star at The New York Times, and like a star, he may twinkle, but his light will never fade."
        The Times executive said of Mr. Reston, who was born in Scotland, "He demonstrated time and time again that the old-world values he had learned as a child were equally valuable in the fast-paced 20th century. His innate decency and sense of fairness were combined with a flooding sense of history."
        Mr. Wicker, who said he would have paid for the privilege of working for Mr.  Reston, said that "he broke more major stories than anyone I know of, before or  since, and he had far and away the best sense of where to look for a story and whom to question." He added: "Scotty was lucky, too, and nobody who isn't will ever be a good reporter."
        Like the others, Mr. Wicker also spoke of Reston the leader, remarking that he "made lesser people better than they ever thought they could be."
        Noting today's journalistic preoccupation with the corrupt and prurient, Mr.  Wicker recalled Mr. Reston ordering a reporter in his bureau not to pursue an unsavory story about President John F. Kennedy -- one that turned out not to be  true -- with the comment, "I will not have The New York Times muckraking the President of the United States."
        Many in Washington and elsewhere regard that standard as "an outmoded and laughable ethic," the former columnist said, but "in my judgment the press and the people of the United States would be better off if that particular old-fashioned virtue still prevailed."
        Concluding, Mr. Wicker expressed "an old man's deep sorrow -- for a newspaperman I admired, for a friend I loved, for a time of hope and faith I doubt I'll ever know again."
        In her remarks, Mrs. Graham said that she had always liked to watch Mr. Reston in social situations, because "he encountered someone, went right to the  point, and emptied their pockets of where they had been, what had happened, and  what they thought about it."
        "Scotty understood," she said, "that atomic weapons had shrunk the Atlantic to a pond. He knew England was prostrate, and the United States had to fill the  void. He recognized this country could never again be a sleeping giant. And so he helped to lead post-war America from isolationism to internationalism."
        Several hundred active and retired journalists, politicians, Government officials, relatives and friends attended the service. Among them were Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and former Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana; Robert S. McNamara, the former Defense Secretary and former World Bank  president; the former Ambassador Sol Linowitz; Robert J. Donovan, the author and former Washington bureau chief for The Los Angeles Times; Benjamin C. Bradlee, the former editor of The Post; Lloyd N. Cutler, Mr. Reston's lawyer and a former Presidential counsel, and all eight of those who have followed Mr. Reston as chief of The Times's Washington Bureau.
        Mr. Reston was a noted talent scout as well as a protean journalist, and the  ushers and pallbearers at his funeral were men and women whom he had recruited as his clerks. All remain active in journalism, at The Times or elsewhere. One of them, Craig Whitney, the Paris bureau chief of The Times and an amateur organist, flew from France to play the Bach Fugue in B-minor as a postlude.
      