
        Dr. Nathan Rosen, one of Israel's foremost scientists, a theoretical physicist who collaborated with Albert Einstein on his historic and still argued-over attack on quantum mechanics, died on Monday at his home in Haifa. He was 86 and had continued his research to the last day.
        A native of Brooklyn, he was Gerard Swope Professor Emeritus of Physics at Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa and the founder of Technion's Institute of Theoretical Physics. He had a pivotal role in the transformation of Technion from a small technical college into a leading technological and scientific university.
        He also was a founder of the Israel National Academy of Sciences and the Humanities and the Israel Physical Society, and he helped set up the engineering school at Ben Gurion University of the Negev in Beersheba. He reached emeritus status at Technion in 1979 but continued to teach his course on general relativity until four years ago.
        He contributed to scientific journals throughout his career, and his last two articles have yet to appear. Even as a student he wrote some remarkable papers,  including a lasting one that provided the first reliable calculation of the structure of the hydrogen molecule.
        From 1934 to 1936 he was a young assistant to Einstein and jointly wrote several scientific papers with him. The one that can still raise hackles with physicists was written with Boris Podolsky, another assistant to Einstein. It was published in The Physical Review, one of the most impenetrable periodicals in the English language.
        It advanced a "thought experiment" to show the wrong-headedness of the quantum theory, which many scientists of the time found highly unpalatable. Einstein deemed it something akin to magic. The paper pointed out conceptual problems that the authors had with the theory and what they saw as its paradoxical and contradictory aspects.
        Quantum mechanics describes the motion of objects by the principles of quantum theory. That theory holds that energy is not absorbed or radiated continuously but discontinuously, and only in multiples of definite, indivisible units, or quanta.
        The paper drew a sharp response from Niels Bohr, and quantum theory has since been widely accepted. Scientists use it as a primary tool to predict the interactions of atoms, molecules, elementary particles and radiation; it plays a role in virtually all the chemical and physical reactions that control our lives and the world around us.
        Dr. Rosen, who eventually accepted the theory, received a bachelor's degree in electrochemical engineering, and a master's and, in 1932, a Ph.D. in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He worked as a national  research fellow at the University of Michigan and Princeton University, where he developed a lifelong interest in gravitation.
        After his stint with Einstein at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, he was a professor of theoretical physics at Kiev State University in Ukraine. From 1941 until he left for Israel, he was on the faculty of the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
        Dr. Rosen is survived by two sons, Dr. Joseph of Little Rock, Ark., and David of Holon, Israel; a brother, Manuel, of Deerfield Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      