
        Edward Julius Pope, an international business executive and onetime civilian  adviser to American military commanders in Europe, died last Saturday at Sibley  Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Middleburg, Va.
        The cause of death was cancer, said the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, of which he was the managing director of international affairs.
        Since joining the association's staff in 1990, Mr. Pope developed an overseas network of more than 13,000 retail stores, scattered throughout 23 countries on four continents. That was in addition to the 32,000 stores the association represents in the United States, a spokesman, Phillip L. Schneider,  said.
        Mr. Pope was also secretary general of the North American Chain Pharmacy Alliance, the Japanese-America Pharmaceutical Committee and the International Committee of the United States-Mexico Chamber of Commerce. Last March the Commerce Department named him to a private-sector advisory committee on trade policy matters involving retailing.
        From 1955 to 1990, Mr. Pope lived in Paris, operating in 25 countries in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East for multinational corporations like the Owens Corning Fiberglas Corporation of Toledo, Ohio. During part of that period  he also served the Defense Department and National Security Council in various capacities, and was awarded the Eisenhower Medal for his services.
        Mr. Pope was born in Rye, N.Y., and graduated from Yale University with degrees in industrial engineering and business administration in 1942. At Yale he was an accomplished swimmer and played on the varsity baseball team.
        In World War II he commanded PT boats on Guadalcanal and in the Philippines.  He took part in more than 40 combat missions and 5 intelligence operations behind enemy lines, and retired as a commander in the Naval Reserve.
        He started a career as a writer for the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studio, and then  produced programs and films for television in New York until his move to Paris.
        Mr. Pope is survived by his wife, Evelyn Maddox Pope, whom he married in 1990; a stepson, George A. Horkan 3d of Upperville, Va.; three stepdaughters, Anne Horkan of Marshall, Va., Elizabeth Horkan of Annapolis, Md., and Kathryn Moody of Radford, Va.; a brother, Thomas A., of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and six step-grandchildren. Mr. Pope's first wife, Princess Niloufer of Turkey and Hyderabad, died in 1989 after 27 years of marriage.
      