
        Sydney Dawson Bailey, a devout pacifist, mediator and prolific writer on international affairs, died on Nov. 26 at his home in North London. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, Stephen Collett, head of the Quaker United Nations Office, said. Word of the death arrived late this week at the office, which Mr. Bailey and his wife, Brenda Friedrich Bailey, had led in the 1950's.
        Born in Hull, England, the son of a lapsed Methodist father and a non-observant Jewish mother, Mr. Bailey left school at 16 and went through a series of such jobs as electrician and clerk in an insurance company.
        At the start of World War II he won conscientious objector status and served  six years in the Friends Ambulance Unit in Burma and China. While in China, he joined the Society of Friends, which is the Quakers' more formal name. He also contracted bilharziasis, a tropical disease that went undiagnosed for several years and left him crippled for the rest of his life.
        Mr. Bailey began his career as an editor, pamphleteer and author of 17 books  in the 1950's. Several of the books became standard texts on the inner workings  of the United Nations' central bodies. His latest book, written with Sam Daws, was "The United Nations: A Concise Political Guide." Also remaining in print is  "British Parliamentary Democracy."
        Mr. Bailey headed the Quakers' United Nations office from 1954 to 1958, after which he was a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace until 1960, when he returned to his homeland.
        He was then organizer, chairman or member of various commissions and councils, including advisory panels of the British Foreign Office. He also played a role as a peacemaker in the Middle East, South Africa and Northern Ireland, and often traveled to the Soviet Union during the cold war.
        From 1952 to 1976 Mr. Bailey convened 10-day conferences that brought together statesmen and diplomats from around the world. He also arranged confidential settings for meetings between people that officially were not on speaking terms, like Arabs and Israelis.
        Besides his wife of 50 years, his survivors include a son, Martin, and a daughter, Marion.
      