
        Baldwin Maull, a former president and board chairman of Marine Midland Banks  Inc. who took a leading role in a host of civic commissions and educational organizations in New York and New Jersey, died on Thursday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 95.
        As a banker, Mr. Maull was an advocate for Marine Midland around the nation and in the New York State Legislature. He was praised in newspapers for his mastery of the soft sell, introducing himself to strangers with an affable smile and saying, "I'm Baldy Maull."
        And as a civic leader, Mr. Maull championed welfare reform, ultimately becoming a leading New York State advocate for the poor, children and families.  Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed Mr. Maull chairman of the New York State Board of Social Welfare in 1969, a position he held until 1978.
        As chairman, Mr. Maull had an oversight role in the establishment of policies and the determination of standards for the state's public welfare system. He recommended increased Federal responsibility for welfare, including the transfer of payments for the disabled, aged and blind from local government to the Social Security system.
        Mr. Maull was born in Wilmington, Del. He was a 1922 graduate of Princeton University and received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1925.
        He joined the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell in New York City in 1925 and remained there until 1934, when he became vice president of the Marine Midland Trust Company of New York. In 1952, he was named executive vice president of the Marine Midland Corporation, becoming president in 1955 and chairman in 1966.
        Also in 1966, he was named chairman of Marine Midland Banks Inc., the parent  company. He was a director of the Marine Midland Trust Company from 1952 to 1970.
        Mr. Maull held seats on many corporate boards, including those of the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, the Hooker Chemical Corporation, the Jefferson Insurance Company and the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company. He also served as president of the Association of Bank Holding Companies.
        A collector of Greek silver coins from 600 B.C. to 200 B.C., Mr. Maull also had an interest in genealogy and colonial history and was the author of "John Maull and Descendants" and of numerous genealogical articles.
        Mr. Maull is survived by his wife, the former Flora Davis, of Hightstown; a son, Baldwin Jr., and a daughter, Diana, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      