
        William J. Curtin, a Washington lawyer, labor-management expert and senior partner in the international law firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his firm said.
        Mr. Curtin was a past chairman of his firm. At his death he was chairman of  its labor and employment section and member of the executive committee.
        Mr. Curtin joined the Morgan, Lewis firm in 1970 and was credited with overseeing its growth to 750 lawyers from 125. Starting in 1966 he was a major player in most big industrial labor-management confrontations for which his firm was engaged.
        He represented the airline industry in a machinists' strike that challenged the Johnson Administration's wage-price guidelines and counseled the railroads in national negotiations with their unions in the early 1990's.
        In the construction field he negotiated contracts for such major projects as  Walt Disney World and the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System. Those agreements included no-strike clauses and innovative procedures to keep the work going while disputes of all sorts were being resolved in arbitration.
        He served as special counsel to the United States Postal Service in its labor negotiations in 1970. Assignments of that nature established his national reputation as an expert in settling issues dividing multiple unions and employers.
        William Joseph Curtin was born in Auburn, N.Y., and graduated in 1953 from Georgetown University, where he also earned a doctorate in law in 1956 and a master's degree in labor law the following year. At his death he was chairman of his alma mater's board.
        Mr. Curtin is survived by his wife of 39 years, Helen Bragg White Curtin; two daughters, Helen B. Cleary of Louisville, Ky., and Caroline G. Curtin of Washington; two sons, William J. 3d, of Charlottesville, Va., and Christopher N., of Washington; a brother, David M., of Vienna, Va., and two grandsons.
      