
        George B. Craig Jr., a Notre Dame professor who was one of the world's foremost experts on mosquitoes, died on Thursday while attending a meeting of the Entomological Society of America in Las Vegas, Nev. Dr. Craig, who lived in  South Bend, Ind., was 65.
        His son, James, said Dr. Craig died of a heart attack.
        While other people swore and slapped at mosquitoes, Dr. Craig was doing something about them. He spent his life studying them -- their breeding habits,  their behavior, their genetics, the mystery of their sensory systems -- in search of effective weapons in the age-old war against them.
        Dr. Craig was the Clark Professor of Biology at the University of Notre Dame, a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences and a recipient of the National Institutes of Health Merit Award for the superior competence and productivity of his research. He received 35 years of continuous financing for his investigations of mosquitoes and their disease-bearing capabilities.
        Once when asked about the habits of mosquitoes, Dr. Craig replied with a question: "Which mosquito?"
        There were, he pointed out, 3,000 species. "Three thousand species, three thousand stories," he said.
        Dr. Craig was particularly expert on the genus Aedes, with more than 800 species capable of transmitting such diseases as yellow fever, dengue fever and encephalitis.
        He directed research into an outbreak of dengue hemorrhagic fever in Mexico in August that spilled over the border into the United States. This year, his researchers investigated an equine encephalitis epidemic in Michigan and a LaCrosse encephalitis outbreak in West Virginia.
        From the mid-1950's until 1975, Dr. Craig studied the genetics of Aedes aegypti, demonstrating the genetic basis of traits essential to the understanding of disease transmission and mosquito control.
        At times, when he weighed the resistance of mosquitoes to new insecticides, the declining effectiveness of drugs to treat and prevent malaria and the environmental concerns that thwarted mosquito control methods like the draining  of swamps and other breeding grounds, Dr. Craig believed that the insects were winning the long battle.
        "The war against the mosquito is going backward," he said in 1984. But, like  other scientists in the forefront of the struggle, Dr. Craig pressed forward with his research.
        And when the disease-carrying Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) arrived in the United States in 1985, he was among the scientists who maintained that the Federal Government ignored warnings about the striped pest and took little action to contain it.
        "Their position is to wait for an epidemic, then do something about it," he said. "That's like jumping out of the Empire State Building and saying you're all right 99 percent of the way down."
        Dr. Craig was born July 8, 1930, in Chicago, where he grew up. He attended the University of Chicago Lab High School, a progressive secondary school established by John Dewey, before entering Indiana University.
        At the time, he was interested in becoming a physician, but a class in entomology led him to his career. He graduated from Indiana with a bachelor of arts degree in 1951 and earned his master's degree in science the following year at the University of Illinois. There a mentor, the eminent entomologist William  Horsfall, guided him toward the study of mosquitoes.
        The young scientist earned his doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1956. From 1954 to 1956, he served with the Army Medical Corps as an officer in Aberdeen, Md.
        He came to Notre Dame in 1957 as an assistant professor and director of its Vector Biology Laboratory. He became a full professor in 1964 and was named the  Clark Professor of Biology a decade later.
        Besides his wife of 42 years, the former Elizabeth Pflum of South Bend, and his son, James, of Niles, Mich., Dr. Craig is survived by two daughters, Patricia Craig of Chicago and Sarah Craig Peterek of Niles, and six grandchildren.
      