
        Lewis A. Lapham, who held senior management posts in both the shipping and the banking industries, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 86.
        Mr. Lapham died after a brief illness, said a son, Lewis H. Lapham, the editor of Harper's magazine.
        The elder Mr. Lapham, a native of New York, was raised in San Francisco. His father, Roger D. Lapham, was once Mayor of San Francisco.
        After beginning his career as a reporter, editor and columnist for The San Francisco Examiner, Lewis A. Lapham was a civilian official for the Army during  World War II. He was executive assistant to the commanding general for the San Francisco Port of Embarkation.
        Mr. Lapham, whose family had been active in the shipping industry for four generations, was named president of the American-Hawaiian Steamship Company in 1947. Six years later, when American-Hawaiian suspended its intercoastal service, he joined the Grace Line as executive vice president. In 1955, he became president of Grace, then a subsidiary of W. R. Grace & Company.
        After serving as an outside director of the Bankers Trust Company for nine years, Mr. Lapham entered the bank's executive ranks as chairman of the executive committee in 1959. He was elected vice chairman of the bank in 1966 and president of the bank's holding company -- the Bankers Trust New York Corporation -- in 1968. Mr. Lapham retired as an active employee of the company  in 1974 and retired from its board in 1981.
        During his career, Mr. Lapham served on the boards of many corporations, including the H. J. Heinz Company, the Mobil Corporation and the Crane Company.  An avid golfer, he was involved in the efforts that led to the creation of the professional golf tour.
        Mr. Lapham is survived by his wife of 63 years, Jane A. Foster Lapham; two sons, Lewis H., of New York, and Anthony A., of Washington; a brother, Roger D., of Pebble Beach, Calif.; a sister, Carol Valentine of Santa Barbara, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      