
        Dr. Norman Kretchmer, a leading expert on infant nutrition, died last Wednesday in the Moffett Hospital of the University of California at San Francisco. He was 72 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was kidney failure due to myeloid metaplasia, a bone-marrow disease, his family said.
        Dr. Kretchmer was professor emeritus of nutrition at the University of California at Berkeley and professor emeritus of obstetrics and pediatrics at the San Francisco campus. At his death he was editor in chief of The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, a monthly published in Berkeley by the American Society of Clinical Nutrition.
        He received national attention in 1972 when he reported that experiments at Rockefeller University had shown that human infants and rats evidenced certain basic tendencies related to nutrition. At the time he was a professor of pediatrics at Stanford University. For instance, he established that the way a mother feeds her infant during the first year of his life may be crucial in determining how healthy he will be as a grown-up.
        He established that fat infants tend to have obesity problems as adults but thin babies do not. Also, babies who are fed large amounts of sugar may have a tendency to develop heart trouble as adults more readily than those with fewer sweets in their diet. And he found that the nutritional needs of infants differ  from those of adults. For instance, many infants cannot readily make an amino acid that is a building block for protein synthesis. Adults can synthesize it, but infants must obtain it from mother's milk.
        Norman Kretchmer was born in Manhattan and graduated from Cornell University  in 1944. He received a master of science degree the following year from the University of Minnesota, where he also earned a Ph.D. in physiological chemistry in 1947. He worked and taught in that field before he got his M.D. at the State  University of New York in 1952.
        He was associated with Cornell and Stanford until he was appointed director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, a branch of the National Institutes of Health, in 1974. He held that post until 1981, when he joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley and San Francisco.
        He wrote "Developmental Nutrition" (Franklin, 1994) and "Sugar and Sweetness" (CRC Press, 1991). He also contributed to "Prenatal and Perinatal Biology and Medicine" (Gordon & Breach, 1987). All remain in print.
        Dr. Kretchmer is survived by his wife, Midge Reiter Kretchmer; a daughter, Pamela Senuty of Los Angeles; two sons, Paul, of Mill Valley, Calif., and Steven, of Los Angeles; a sister, Francine Garcia Braunstein of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      