
        Anthony J. Ingrassia, a playwright, producer and director whose works were produced on and Off Broadway and abroad, died on Saturday night at Brunswick Hospital in Amityville, L.I. Mr. Ingrassia, who lived in Massapequa Park, L.I.,  was 51.
        By his own admission a compulsive eater who weighed about 600 pounds and suffered from a breathing disorder and a heart ailment, Mr. Ingrassia died of cardiac arrest, said a friend, Jill Johnson.
        Mr. Ingrassia was a fixture of the nonmainstream performing arts of the 1950's and 60's. He was a member of the Ridiculous Theater Company, founded by a fellow Hofstra University student, Charles Ludlam, and the impresario of Company One, whose number changed with each production, until it finally became Company  Seven. But it was on Broadway that Mr. Ingrassia's career reached its devastating zenith in 1974.
        On Nov. 18, his play "Fame," about Marilyn Monroe, opened and closed at the John Golden Theater. Clive Barnes of The New York Times called it a "limp rag of a comedy."
        Smarting from the failure, Mr. Ingrassia accepted a German grant that included a round-trip ticket and a monthly stipend for a year. He went to Berlin, appeared in a revue with a transsexual performer, Romy Haag, and wrote radio plays. "Fame," all 80 scenes, was one of them.
        "It was misunderstood in New York, and I got blown out by the experience," Mr. Ingrassia said.
        Berlin remained his base for the next six and a half years, but during that time he conceived and directed another New York production, "Shindig." A musical revue that packaged the popular music of the 60's, it opened at Downstairs at City Center and ran for six performances in 1979.
        Robert Palmer of The Times wrote, "It reproduces a variety of 1960's styles,  from soul to bubble gum, with taste, affection and energy," but he found fault with the singers.
        In 1985, Mr. Ingrassia moved back to Massapequa Park, where his family had moved from Brooklyn when he was 10, to care for his ailing mother, who died in 1990.
        Last March, "Sweet Dreams," his 50-minute collage of 14 plays, opened for a weekend run at the Club at La Mama in the East Village in Manhattan. The plays were written in 1981 and published later in Germany but never previously produced.
        On the surface, they were concerned with cross-dressing, heart failure, incest, impotence, suicide and the unkindness of physicians. But their deeper subject was being trapped in the wrong family and the wrong relationships.
        "The hard things that happen to us in life, not being able to express yourself sexually and being so disappointed, that's what it's about," he said. "I want people to understand the horror stories and the pain and the feelings in the plays."
        Mr. Ingrassia, who was born in Brooklyn, said he was drawn to theater while he was a teen-ager. "My weight was always up and down," he said. "It was hard being fat in Massapequa High School, but my teachers encouraged my writing."
        Last spring, Mr. Ingrassia was seeing an eating disorder therapist and taking a freight elevator to the fifth-floor loft where the rehearsals for "Sweet Dreams" were held.
        "I'm freight, baby" he said. "I still have to fight my food addiction. I don't know how much I really want to talk about it, but maybe this will help somebody."
        Friends and relatives said Mr. Ingrassia is survived by a sister, Gloria. But they said the two were estranged and her whereabouts unknown.
      