
        Frederic Waldman, an enterprising conductor who for more than 30 years presented programs of forgotten works by great composers of the past as well as  premieres of contemporary works, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Mr. Waldman was a powerful presence on the New York music scene from the early 1950's, when he was music director of the Juilliard Opera Theater, through 1985, when he retired as director of Musica Aeterna, the ensemble he founded in  1957.
        At the Juilliard School, where he taught from 1947 to 1967, Mr. Waldman conducted the American premieres of Strauss's "Capriccio," Zoltan Kodaly's "Hary Janos," Luigi Dallapiccola's "Prisoner" and Benjamin Britten's arrangement of "The Beggar's Opera," as well as the world premiere of William Bergsma's "Wife of Martin Guerre." And with Musica Aeterna, he revived many rarities that later  came to be more frequently performed, among them Rossini's "Petite Messe Solonelle," Handel's setting of "L'Allegro ed Il Penseroso" and the Dvorak "Requiem," and works by Schutz, Monteverdi, Rameau and various sons of Bach.
        Mr. Waldman was born in Vienna on April 17, 1903. He studied the piano privately with Richard Robert, starting in 1918. Later he studied orchestration  and conducting with George Szell and composition with Karl Weigl. He began his professional career as a rehearsal pianist. In the 1930's, he worked as a coach  on productions conducted by Strauss and Toscanini, and in several German opera houses. He had also started conducting and was the music director of the Ballet  Joos, a Dutch troupe. In 1935, he moved to England, where he taught and conducted until 1941, when he made his way to New York.
        In New York he taught at the Mannes College of Music for five years before joining the Juilliard faculty. He also continued to work as an accompanist. One  of the singers he worked with was Alice Tully, the arts patron for whom the chamber music hall at Lincoln Center is named. Miss Tully soon became Mr. Waldman's anonymous benefactor. In 1956, she underwrote a concert in which Mr. Waldman and a freelance ensemble accompanied Mieczyslaw Horszowski in a program  of Mozart concertos at the Metropolitan Opera.
        The next year, she persuaded the Metropolitan Museum to present a series of orchestral programs conducted by Mr. Waldman, with lectures by Emanuel Winternitz, the curator of the museum's instrument department.
        The series was at first called "Music Forgotten and Remembered," but by 1961  Mr. Waldman began calling his ensemble the Musica Aeterna Orchestra and giving concerts not only at the museum but also at Carnegie Hall. Eventually, the orchestra appeared at Alice Tully Hall as well, but it maintained its ties with  the museum until the end.
        The harpsichordist Albert Fuller, who performed with the group and recently catalogued all of its performances for a book about Miss Tully, said that Musica Aeterna performed nearly 500 works in 256 concerts. Besides reviving obscure works, the ensemble gave the world premieres of Messiaen's "From the Canyons to  the Stars" and symphonies by Vittorio Rieti and Robert Casadesus.
        Mr. Waldman is survived by his wife, Rachel Aubrey; a stepson, Stephen Rustow, of Manhattan, and a stepdaughter, Janet Rustow, of Cambridge, Mass.
      