
        Walter Horn, a historian of medieval architecture and the co-author of a monumental study of the monastery of St. Gall in Switzerland, died on Tuesday at his home in Point Richmond, Calif. He was 87.
        Mr. Horn, the son and grandson of Lutheran ministers, was born in Waldangeloch, Germany, and grew up in Heidelberg. He studied at the Universities of Heidelberg and Berlin and received his doctorate in art history at the University of Hamburg, where he studied under Erwin Panofsky.
        An opponent of the Nazi regime, Mr. Horn left Germany to take a postgraduate position at the German Art Institute in Florence, and in 1938 he immigrated to the United States. That year he began teaching art history at the University of  California at Berkeley, where he remained until his retirement in 1975.
        During the war, Mr. Horn served as a lieutenant in Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army, interrogating prisoners of war. Immediately after the war, as a special investigator for the American military government in Germany, he helped  track down art that had been looted or hidden by the Nazis. He left the Army in  1946 with the rank of captain.
        Mr. Horn was known for his studies of three-aisled timber structures found in medieval churches, market halls and manor halls. His most ambitious work was "The Plan of St. Gall" (1979), a three-volume study produced in collaboration with the San Francisco architect Ernest Born.
        Using plans drawn up in the early ninth century for improving the monastery,  Mr. Horn and Mr. Born labored for 20 years to reimagine the monastery of St. Gall and the community that might have existed had the plans ever been realized. Their work included hundreds of detailed architectural drawings that showed not  only the church and cloister, but also outbuildings like barns and stables.
        "The Plan of St. Gall" was hailed by the French historian Emmanuel LeRoy Ladurie for its "prodigious scholarship," and for the light it shed on Carolingian life and thought through its study of such mundane subjects as barber shops, bathing, gardening and livestock breeding. The book won prizes from the Academie d'Architecture in France and the American Institute of Architects.
        Mr. Horn and Mr. Born also collaborated on "The Barns of the Abbey of Beaulieu at Its Granges of Great Coxwell and Beaulieu St. Leonard" (1965).
        Mr. Horn was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the Medieval Academy of America. He served for many years on the board of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.
        He is survived by his wife, Alberta; a son, Michael, of Chicago; two daughters, Rebecca, of Salt Lake City, and Robin Reid of Bend, Ore., and a grandson.
      