
        Giraud Chester, an author and television executive responsible for shows that include "The Price Is Right," "Family Feud" and "What's My Line?" died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was congestive heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Chester, who was known as Jerry, had worked in various positions in the  television industry, including vice president of programming at ABC and at NBC,  since 1952. But it was at Mark Goodson Television Productions, an independent company he joined in 1964 and where he helped develop several long-running game  shows, that Mr. Chester's impact on television was perhaps greatest. Before his  death, Mr. Chester had been negotiating the renewal of "The Price Is Right," the popular daytime program starring Bob Barker.
        Mr. Chester came to television after a brief career in academia. In 1949, he  began teaching broadcasting and speech at Queens College, and he wrote a widely  used textbook on television and radio, one of the first to focus on the media's  role in society.
        He also ventured beyond his chief interest, writing a biography of an abolitionist, "Embattled Maiden -- the Life of Anna Dickinson." And after serving as a juror in a 1968 murder trial in Manhattan, he wrote about jury deliberation in "The Ninth Juror."
        Mr. Chester was born in Manhattan and graduated from Brooklyn College in 1942. After serving as a Navy communications officer during World War II, he resumed his studies at the University of Wisconsin, where he received a doctorate in speech.
        Mr. Chester is survived by his wife of 34 years, Marjorie; two children, Christopher, of Manhattan, and Katherine, of Bristol, R.I., and a brother, Herbert Chester of Tucson, Ariz.
        Correction:  February 10, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Dec. 26 and in some copies on Dec. 25 about Giraud Chester, an author and television executive, misstated the name of a company he joined in 1964. The company was called Mark Goodson-Bill Todman Productions, not Mark Goodson Television Productions. (This correction was delayed by editing lapses.)
      