
        Gen. Maxwell Thurman, who led the 1989 invasion of Panama and was a principal architect of the all-volunteer United States Army, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He was 64.
        General Thurman had been found to have leukemia in 1990.
        Dubbed "Mad Max" and "Max atollah" by colleagues, because of his aggressive  style, General Thurman delayed his retirement at the request of the Bush Administration so he could spearhead the effort to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega from control in Panama.
        General Thurman was named commander of the United States Southern Command, based at Quarry Heights, Panama, in September 1989. He was responsible for United States forces in South and Central America and pledged to confront "tyranny in all its insidious forms."
        He was widely credited with persuading the Pentagon leadership and the Bush Administration to use military force against the Noriega government.
        After a 37-year career, General Thurman retired in February 1991, the year after he had learned that he had an aggressive form of leukemia.
        The general made his reputation as an aggressive, take-charge commander. One  officer said General Thurman was known for "driving his staff crazy because he was a bachelor, and the guy never went home."
        Born on Feb. 18, 1931, in High Point, N.C., General Thurman was a graduate of North Carolina State University in Raleigh, where he enrolled in R.O.T.C. and got his officer's commission.
        He held a variety of staff and command positions in Europe and the United States and served in Vietnam, first as a corps intelligence adviser and later as commander of the Second Battalion, 35th Field Artillery, during the Tet offensive. That series of battles in 1968 was considered a public relations disaster for the United States but a tactical victory in the field for American  forces.
        Before taking the top spot at the Southern Command, General Thurman was Vice  Chief of Staff and commanding general of the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command at Fort Monroe, Va. He also headed the Army's Recruiting Command at Fort Sheridan, Ill., where he worked to develop the service's "Be all that you can be" recruiting campaign.
        It was during these years, the mid-1980's, that he was credited with vastly improving the quality of the average American soldier.
        General Thurman is survived by his brother, Lieut. Gen. John R. Thurman 3d of Alexandria, Va.
      