
        Lord Matthews of Southgate, a British newspaper baron better known as Victor  Collin Matthews, the rags-to-riches former proprietor of the Express Newspapers  in London, died on his 76th birthday on Tuesday. News reports, quoting family and friends, said he died of cancer at his farm near Saint Brelade on the Channel Island of Jersey.
        As Mr. Matthews, and starting as a newspaper delivery boy, he made himself into a press baron and the man at the helm of Trafalgar House. He helped build it into an immense conglomerate that owned the Cunard Line and the Ritz Hotel in London, among other holdings. But it took former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to make him a real baron 15 years ago.
        As a reward for his unstinting support of the Conservative Party, Mrs. Thatcher created a life peerage for him, as she later did for other publishers.  Lord Matthews, a noted breeder and racer of horses, adopted an azure-and-gold coat of arms with a crest showing a horse upraised against a Corinthian column of white marble.
        Born in north London, he had only a limited formal education when he joined the Royal Navy in 1939. He served until the end of World War II, and then worked his way up in the construction industry as a surveyor until he formed his own business, a small building venture, which he later sold to Trafalgar House.
        Trafalgar grew into a conglomerate branching into construction, engineering,  shipping, investment and the leisure business. Mr. Matthews joined the board in  1967, eventually becoming the right-hand man of Nigel Broackes, the chief architect of the company's rapid expansion. By the late 1970's he stood at the corporate helm of various Trafalgar subsidiaries, including Cunard, the Ritz and Trafalger House Construction.
        In 1977 he engineered Trafalgar House Investments' takeover of the financially ailing Beaverbrook Newspapers, comprising The Daily Express, The Sunday Express and The Evening Standard. As the group's chairman and chief executive he changed its name to Express Newspapers, thus ending one of Britain's more colorful newspaper dynasties. He added a new tabloid, The Star, and make the group into a highly lucrative enterprise.
        Mr. Matthews married Joyce Pilbeam in 1942; she died in October. They had one son, who survives.
      