
        NATO chose the Spanish Foreign Minister today as its next secretary general,  ending six weeks of wrangling in which the allies publicly quarreled over two other leading candidates.
        The Spaniard, Javier Solana, a 53-year-old Socialist, is expected to be formally appointed next week and will immediately assume the challenge of having to supervise NATO's impending peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, the alliance's largest operation to date, with 60,000 troops.
        In Brussels today, NATO envoys approved sending 2,600 troops to Bosnia to prepare for the larger force.
        Mr. Solana will also oversee the delicate expansion process of the 16-nation  North Atlantic Treaty Organization as it prepares to take in new members from central Europe.
        He will succeed Willy Claes of Belgium, who was forced to resign on Oct. 20 to face charges in an arms-buying scandal while he served in his country's Cabinet.
        Diplomats see the post of NATO secretary general as crucial, requiring a skillful manager and leader who can influence the alliance's direction and debates and act as a consensus builder among bickering and sometimes jealous allies.
        Agreeing on the next secretary general, normally a confidential process, has  been particularly public and troublesome.
        The United States last month vetoed the former Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Ruud Lubbers, even though by then he had the open backing of six nations, including Britain and France. The veto angered his supporters, especially the Dutch, because Mr. Lubbers, while in office, had taken on the highly unpopular task of defending the placement of American missiles on Dutch soil.
        The real reason for the rebuff, diplomats said, was that Washington was annoyed because it felt it had not been properly consulted on his candidacy and  refused to accept a fait accompli.
        France, in turn, blocked the candidate acceptable to Washington, Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, a former Foreign Minister of Denmark. French officials said that the Danish candidate's knowledge of French -- one of the two official languages -- was not good enough, and, moreover, he had openly criticized French nuclear tests being conducted in the Pacific.
        Mr. Solana was drafted in recent weeks as a compromise. The secretary general's job has traditionally gone to a European and the top military job to an American general.
        Mr. Solana is a physicist who keeps up with solid-state physics in his spare  time. Before he became Foreign Minister, he was Minister of Culture and Minister of Education. A militant Socialist in his youth, he opposed the presence of American military bases in Spain and his country's membership in NATO.
        A cordial, outgoing man, he is now a keen believer in the need for a strong Atlantic alliance and has championed a "European solution" to the conflict in Bosnia. During a recent conversation, he said he and Secretary of State Warren Christopher had discussed their concern that the special Atlantic relationship should not drift apart.
        Noting that Spain is the only NATO member that confirmed its membership with  a national referendum, he said, "Spain is Europe's most committed member of NATO."
        Mr. Solana's departure to NATO headquarters in Brussels will deeply affect Spanish politics. A close friend of Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, he was believed to be Mr. Gonzalez's likely successor as head of the Socialist Party and its candidate if the Spanish leader decides not to run in elections in March.
        --------------------
        Senators Oppose Appointment
        WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 (By The New York Times) -- Just hours after the selection of Foreign Minister Solana as NATO chief, signs of opposition appeared on Capitol Hill today.
        Several Republican Senators -- Bob Dole, Jesse Helms, John McCain, Paul Coverdell, Strom Thurmond and Olympia Snowe -- signed a letter to President Clinton opposing the nomination, calling him "a dedicated Socialist with an extensive public record in opposition to NATO."
        The letter added, "With troops poised to enter Bosnia to enforce the recent peace agreement, NATO can ill afford to be led by a candidate whose credentials are in question."
        The Senate has no power to block the appointment, but the senators are opposing it as Mr. Clinton is trying to get the maximum support for his troop deployment to Bosnia.
      