
        Edmund D. Campbell, a lawyer in Washington and Virginia who argued cases involving the desegregation of schools and the representation of counties in state legislatures, died on Thursday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 96.
        Mr. Campbell was formerly a partner of and, in later years, counsel to the Washington-based law firm now known as Jackson & Campbell.
        Over the years, he was involved in a score of cases that reached the Supreme  Court. One of them was a lawsuit contending that two relatively densely populated Virginia counties were insufficiently represented, in a way that broke the law, in the Virginia legislature, compared with country areas. That case was lumped with several other cases and Supreme Court decisions in the early 1960's  affirmed what became known as the "one man, one vote" or "one person, one vote"  rule.
        Mr. Campbell was also active in the 1950's battles when Virginia engaged in massive resistance to the Supreme Court's ruling that public schools must be desegregated. One suit that he was involved in was brought by a group of 26 parents and students in Norfolk, Va., challenging Virgnia's anti-integration laws. Eventually, after the state -- confronting pressure to integrate -- had shut down public schools in Norfolk and in two other Virginia communities, Federal judges ruled that the anti-integration laws were unconstitutional.
        Mr. Campbell was born in Lexington, Va., received a bachelor's degree from Washington and Lee University, a master's degree in economics from Harvard and his law degree in 1922 from Washington and Lee's law school, where he was first  in his class.
        He married Esther Butterworth in 1926, and she died in 1934.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Elizabeth Pfoul, whom he married in 1936; three sons, the Rev. Edmund D. Campbell Jr. of Fort Walton Beach, Fla., the Rev. Benjamin P. Campbell of Richmond, Va. and H. Donald Campbell of Arlington; a daughter, Virginia Campbell Holt of Phoenix; eight grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      