
        Fabian Linden, the economist who developed the widely quoted consumer confidence index of the Conference Board, died at his home in Manhattan on Monday. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer of the colon, his wife, Anita, said.
        Mr. Linden joined the Conference Board, a worldwide business research organization, in 1957 and was active in his post as executive director of its Consumer Research Center until a few weeks ago, his wife said.
        He was one of the first American economists to examine consumer behavior as a means of divining shifts in the American economy.
        In 1967, he developed the Conference Board's consumer confidence index, which measures consumer attitudes and buying plans. Today, it is one of the two major  consumer indicators used by economic forecasters, competing with one developed at the University of Michigan, and it is considered a leading economic indicator by the Federal Government.
        The board's index, issued monthly, is also widely watched by business executives and by Wall Street, and is often cited by financial analysts to explain swings in stock and bond prices.
        As developer of the index, Mr. Linden became a national authority on consumer behavior patterns. He often told business audiences: "Consumers are better forecasters than economists because they are closer to economic reality. They are the first to feel significant economic change. They are the first to know when they and their neighbors are being hired or fired and first to know whether business activity is expanding or contracting."
        Mr. Linden wrote more than 40 books or major studies for the Conference Board, many of which were widely used by business and quoted in the media. His most recent, "How We Spend Our Money," was published this year. Others include "Consumer Affluence: The Next Wave," "Baby Boomers in Mid Passage: A Demographic, Economic and Social Profile," and "Working Women: A Demographic, Economic and Social Profile."
        Before joining the Conference Board, Mr. Linden was in the Foreign Service, first in Vienna as an economic attache and later in Paris as a member of the United States delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        He received a bachelor's degree in economics from New York University and a master's degree in economics from Harvard University.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Linden is survived by a daughter, Livia, of Costa Rica; a stepson, Neil, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      