
        P. Gordon B. Stillman, a private school administrator and teacher who shared  his knowledge of history, tennis and squash with generations of students, died yesterday at his home in New York City. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Stillman taught history at the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn., for  25 years, serving as assistant headmaster and dean of the faculty for almost a decade and coaching tennis and squash for many years. He was instrumental in founding the Independent Day School, an elementary school in Middlefield, Conn.
        In 1972, he was appointed headmaster of Riverdale Country School. In that role, he combined three independent schools on two campuses in the Riverdale section of the Bronx into a single co-educational institution with nearly 1,000  students. He served for a time as president of the Guild of Independent Schools  of New York City.
        Mr. Stillman was born in Rye, N.Y., and reared in New York City. He attended  Buckley School, St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and Yale College, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1940. He was captain of the 1940 Yale squad that won the national intercollegiate squash championship. He was the 1939 Connecticut state  squash champion, and was runner-up in 1955, and in 1956.
        Mr. Stillman wrote two high school texts, "Makes and Milestones of the Middle Ages" and "Roman Rulers and Rebels," both published by Longman.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four sons, Peter G., of Poughkeepsie; J. Frederick 3d, Alfred 3d and Waddell W., all of New York City; a daughter, Anne S. Nordeman of New York City, and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 13, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about P. Gordon B. Stillman, a private school administrator and teacher, referred incorrectly in some editions to an organization he headed for a time. It is the Guild of Independent Schools of New York City, not the New York State Guild of Independent Schools.
      