
        A. Sydney Herlong Jr., who spent 20 years in Congress as a conservative Democrat and was then appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Securities  and Exchange Commission, died on Wednesday at his home in Leesburg, Fla. He was  86.
        Mr. Herlong became an influential member of the House Ways and Means Committee in a Congressional career that began with his election in 1948 and ended when he chose not to seek re-election in 1968. He regarded as perhaps his  most significant accomplishment his successful lobbying to bring the Kennedy Space Center to Brevard County in Florida.
        Voters in the Fifth Congressional District of Florida first sent Mr. Herlong to Washington when Mr. Nixon was in his second term as a Republican Congressman  from California. The two became friends.
        In Congress, Mr. Herlong was known as fiercely conservative on tax issues and as a spokesman for oil and cattle interests.
        He left Congress when he faced what would have been a difficult re-election fight in 1968 in increasingly Republican Central Florida. He served briefly as a registered lobbyist for the Association of Southeastern Railroads, and he campaigned for Mr. Nixon for President. After the election, Mr. Nixon appointed  him to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        In 1973, when he was 64, Mr. Herlong resigned from the commission. For a time, he maintained an association with the Washington law firm Smathers, Symington & Herlong, but, for the most part, he resumed life in Leesburg.
        In 1985, Mr. Herlong became a Republican. "He didn't change," said one of his daughters, Margaret Mayfield, "but the Democratic Party changed in this area."
        Mr. Herlong was born in Manistee, Ala., on Feb. 14, 1909. When he was an infant, his family moved to Central Florida, where his father became successful  in the citrus business. The family moved to Leesburg when Mr. Herlong was 11.
        He graduated from the University of Florida Law School in 1930 and served as  postmaster of Leesburg; at the age of 27, he was elected as a county judge. He remained in that post until his election to Congress, but he also found time in  the 1940's to serve as the president of the Florida State Baseball League, a professional league at the bottom of the major leagues' then-extensive farm system.
        Mr. Herlong died the day after his 65th wedding anniversary. He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Alice Youmans; four daughters, Mary Alice Patillo of Ocala, Fla., Mrs. Mayfield, of Lady Lake, Fla., Sydney Johnson of Alexandria, Va., and Dorothy Hay of Waverly, Ga.; three brothers, Fred, Byron and James, all of Leesburg; 13 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      