
        Jurgen Wattenberg, a U-boat commander who engineered the largest and most spectacular escape from a prisoner-of-war camp in the United States in World War II, died on Nov. 27 at a nursing home in Hamburg, Germany. He was 94.
        On the night of Dec. 23, 1944, 25 German prisoners made their way through a makeshift tunnel from the Navy's Papago Park prison in Scottsdale, Ariz., and captured the grudging imagination of the American public.
        Even in wartime, Americans could recognize and appreciate ingenuity and daring when they saw it, especially because the widely publicized escape turned  out well from the American perspective. All 25 escapees were recaptured. But not before they had created a merry legend.
        The escape was similar to an earlier and larger Allied breakout from a German prison, an event that inspired the 1963 movie "The Great Escape." But in some respects the German plan was even more daring and imaginative.
        The Germans not only spent almost five months painstakingly digging a 178-foot tunnel under two fences and a road, but they also strung the tunnel with electric lights, fashioned civilian clothes to replace their prison uniforms, built a three-person kayak to help escape to Mexico by river and even  built a lake in the prison camp to test it.
        Like the irrepressible American escape artist portrayed by Steve McQueen in "The Great Escape," Captain Wattenberg took the sworn duty of an officer to escape to extremes. Indeed, he was transferred to the new camp in Arizona in the summer of 1944 precisely because the authorities had learned that he had been plotting to dig an escape tunnel from a prison in Tennessee.
        For all his resemblance to Mr. McQueen, Captain Wattenberg was really Richard Attenborough, whose role in the "Great Escape" was based on a Royal Canadian Air Force officer, C. Wallace Floody, who led the real escape from the German camp on March 24, 1944.
        For when he arrived at Papago Park in 1944, Captain Wattenberg, who had been  captured and turned over to the Americans after three British destroyers had sunk his submarine in the Caribbean on Sept. 3, 1942, was the highest-ranking German officer in the camp, in charge of of the 1,700 prisoners. He was a 43-year-old graduate of the Prussian Naval Academy, with more than 20 years in the German Navy.
        Camp officials made a mistake when they welcomed Captain Wattenberg's request for dirt, shovels and other tools to build a German version of a volleyball court. When the Germans started digging their tunnel behind a bathhouse, working in small groups on 90-minute shifts and using spoons, screwdrivers and shovels,  the piles of dirt provided handy cover.
        Even so, the tunnel, whose entrance was hidden by the bathhouse, a coalbin and a clothesline, produced so much dirt that the prisoners eventually had to devise a new way to dispose it. A result was a veritable profusion of carefully  tended, and extremely well-sodded, prison gardens.
        The tunnel, 16 feet under a road and ending at a canal well outside the prison perimeter, was completed in early December. The prisoners tested it in several dry runs. But hoping that their guards would be lulled by the approach of Christmas, and further lulled by a high-spirited party staged as a distraction by other prisoners, the escapees waited until the night of Dec. 23 to begin crawling through the tunnel in twos and threes.
        It was a testament to Captain Wattenberg's perfectly executed plan that the guards did not even know that the prisoners were gone until one of the 25 escapees turned himself in to the police 17 hours later.
        What proved to be the escapees' undoing was a stolen map from a filling station that had become the basis of the plan to float down the Gila River to the Colorado and on to Mexico. When the first group reached the Gila, they found that what had been a watery bright blue line on the map was a dried-up rut.
        Over the next month the prisoners were recaptured a few at a time. Captain Wattenberg, who had lived in a nearby cave, was the last to be recaptured. He was spotted in downtown Phoenix after 36 days.
        After the war he became a beer distributor in Germany. He visited Phoenix in  1984 for a reunion for the 40th anniversary of the escape, but he was too frail  to attend the 50th anniversary ceremonies last December.
        Surviving are two sons, Oskar and Erhart.
        Correction:  December 6, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary on Dec. 4 about Jurgen Wattenberg, who organized a daring escape  from a World War II prisoner-of-war camp in Arizona, referred incorrectly in some editions to the role played by a Royal Canadian Air Force officer in a similarly audacious, and larger, breakout from a German P.O.W. camp that inspired the movie "The Great Escape." The officer, C. Wallace Floody, who died  in 1989, was a mining expert who had a significant part in the tunneling operation. He was not in command of the escape. The leader was Roger Bushell, a Royal Air Force officer who was executed after his recapture by the Germans.
      