
        Dr. Thomas C. Chalmers, a past president of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Mount Sinai School of Medicine whose urgings led to the establishment of the country's first department of geriatrics, died on Wednesday at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 78.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Dr. John W. Rowe, the current president of the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        During Dr. Chalmers's leadership of Mount Sinai, from 1973 to 1983, the medical school, of which he was also dean, gained in stature and became ranked among the best in the country, and the medical center grew to pre-eminence in both academic and research areas.
        In 1983, at his urging, Mount Sinai became the first medical school in the country to establish a department of geriatrics, giving that field the same prominence as surgery, psychiatry and other established specialties. Mount Sinai quickly positioned itself as a leading center for the study of geriatrics. At a  time when more Americans were living longer, Dr. Chalmers foresaw the growing importance of educating doctors in all fields about the effects of aging on their patients.
        "The increasing numbers of aging people and escalating medical costs are creating a crisis with all sorts of ethical, medical and moral problems," he said when the medical center announced the formation of the geriatric unit.
        He was also responsible for starting the department of biostatistics at Mount Sinai, now called the department of biomathematical sciences, which grew out of  his passion for using clinical research as the basis for determining medical treatments.
        He was one of the first medical researchers to apply the techniques of meta-analysis to the study of medical treatment. In meta-analysis, the results of similar studies conducted independently can be pooled and analyzed to determine the scientific merit of particular courses of treatment.
        One of Dr. Chalmers's earliest successes in clinical trials came in the early 1950's, when he proved that patients suffering from hepatitis A could resume their normal schedules when they felt well enough. A popular method of care in such cases had been to require prolonged bed rest.
        He began that research in 1951, when the United States Army sent him to Japan for six months to study the treatment of hepatitis among soldiers in the Korean  War.
        "He forced doctors to be intellectually rigorous about the treatments they recommended," Dr. Rowe said. "He set the stage nationally for using randomized clinical tests rather than anecdote to determine treatment methods."
        Dr. Chalmers was so devoted to making medical decisions solely on the basis of scientifically proven analysis that he refused to have his arthritic hip replaced with an artificial one until clinical tests proved the superiority of that course of treatment.
        "We would walk around the quadrangle at Harvard and he would be limping and leaning on a cane," recalled Dr. Rowe, who was director of the division on aging at the Harvard Medical School when he was named president of Mount Sinai. He met frequently with Dr. Chalmers, then a visiting professor at Harvard, to ask advice about his new job.
        "I would say, 'Why not get the hip replaced?' " Dr. Rowe recounted yesterday, "and he would wince and say, 'Because the trials haven't yet concluded that such treatment is best.' He lived by his example."
        Thomas Clark Chalmers was born on Dec. 8, 1917, in New York City and grew up  in Forest Hills, Queens, the son and grandson of doctors. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale University, and received his medical degree in 1943 from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        He became chief of medical services at Lemuel Shattuck Hospital in Boston in  1955, and was a professor of medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine and a lecturer at the Harvard Medical School.
        In 1968, he moved to Washington to become assistant director for research and education at the Veterans Administration. In 1970, he was appointed director of  the Clinical Center and deputy director for clinical care at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
        After a decade in New York at Mount Sinai, he returned to Boston, where he held a variety of positions at Harvard, Tufts and Boston University. From 1983 to 1993, he was also a member and chairman of the board at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center.
        In 1992, Dr. Chalmers founded Meta Works Inc., a company that used meta-analysis to study the efficacy of treatments for such diseases as ulcerative colitis, heart disease and cancer.
        He was a prolific writer throughout his career, contributing more than 400 articles to various medical publications.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Frances Talcott of West Lebanon, N.H.; four children, Thomas C., of West Newton, Mass., Richard M., of Williamstown, Vt., Elizabeth Chalmers Wright of Boston, and Frances Talcott Chalmers-Smith of Seattle; a sister, Virginia Chalmers Lane, and six grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held next Friday at 4 P.M. in the Sackler Auditorium of Tufts Medical School in Boston.
      