
        Walter Gellhorn, the longtime Columbia University law professor whose writings, teachings and periodic sallies into the public arena helped shape key  elements of modern American law, died on Saturday at his home in Morningside Heights. He was 89.
        Until a few days ago, Mr. Gellhorn, known as a fierce champion of civil liberties and a father of both modern administrative law and of the ombudsman movement in the United States, had made daily visits to his Columbia office, where he maintained a flourishing retirement sideline as a labor mediator.
        In a long and varied career, Mr. Gellhorn wrote and lectured extensively on  a range of issues, but for all the complexities of the abstruse principles he probed and elucidated, you did not have to delve far into Gellhorn to find the wellspring of his intellectual vision.
        For he was a scholar who wore his passions on the spines of his books, among  them, "Security, Loyalty and Science" (1950), "Individual Freedom and Governmental Restraints" (1956), "American Rights: the Constitution in Action" (1960), and "The Freedom to Read," a 1961 collaboration.
        It was his very commitment to individual rights that underlay his most acclaimed legal achievement, his role as an architect and continuing scholarly watchdog of the Administrative Procedures Act of 1946. The law, highly influenced by Mr. Gellhorn's writings, specifically applies the Constitutional notions of fairness and due process to the shadowy back alleys of the American legal system, the welter of delegated rules and regulations promulgated, administered and enforced by Federal agencies.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Gellhorn was closely associated with the developments of administrative law. He was a perennial member of the Administrative Conference of the United States, and his "Administrative Law: Cases and Comments," revised many times since its initial publication in 1941, has been regarded as the standard text.
        Whether he was dealing with front-line issues of civil rights or the minutiae of administrative law, Mr. Gellhorn concentrated less on lofty theory than on the hard facts of the perpetual conflict between law and liberty, the raw edge of everyday encounter between the citizen at home and the government agent at the door.
        It was a measure of his allegiance to civil liberties that as assistant general counsel of the Office of Price Administration during World War II, a time when hoarders of rationed canned goods were widely regarded as a national menace, if not out and out traitors, Mr. Gellhorn made headlines with a directive reminding the agency's sometimes overzealous enforcement staff that wartime emergency was no excuse for trampling on individual rights.
        Searches for contraband, he ordered, could be carried out only when extreme violations had been reported and then only with a search warrant.
        Mr. Gellhorn, who was born in St. Louis, where his father George was a doctor and social activist, seems to have acquired his interest in public affairs and his notions of civic justice from his parents, particularly his mother, Edna Fischel Gellhorn, a homespun firebrand who campaigned vigorously for suffrage and other women's rights and who helped found the League of Women Voters.
        After graduating from Amherst, Mr. Gellhorn obtained his law degree from Columbia in 1931, and made the first of his many detours to Washington, where he clerked for Justice Harlan Fiske Stone and worked in the Solicitor General's office before beginning his teaching career at Columbia in 1933.
        A longtime member director of the American Civil Liberties Union and of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, Mr. Gellhorn was so sensitive to what he regarded as governmental excesses that in 1948 he published a scathing attack on what he saw as the distinctly un-American methods of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
        A practical man who believed in the power of reason to solve disputes, Mr. Gellman wrote two books in 1966, "When Americans Complain," and "Ombudsmen and Others," that have been credited with establishing the Swedish notion of official mediation as a part of the American scene.
        Mr. Gellhorn, who helped write the Japanese Constitution after World War II,  frequently sponsored foreign students at Columbia. When the university established an endowed chair in his honor in 1993, most of the money was donated by Japanese lawyers and businessmen who had studied with him.
        Mr. Gellhorn also endeared himself to his American students, especially those who had trouble finding jobs. He had so many devoted admirers in law firms and government agencies across the United States, he could usually find a position.
        He is survived by his wife, Kitty; two daughters, Gay of Washington and Ellis of Manhattan; a sister, Martha, the war correspondent who was once married to Ernest Hemingway and who now lives in London, and a brother, the well-known physician, Alfred, of Durham, N.Y.
      