
        Ross Thomas, the author of the political thrillers "Chinaman's Chance," "The  Cold War Swap" and "Briarpatch," died yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa  Monica, Calif. He was 69 and lived in Malibu.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Rosalie.
        Mr. Thomas, who also wrote under the pseudonym Oliver Bleeck, won critical praise for his stylish, well-told suspense novels enlivened with a dash of wit.  The writer Stephen King, noting Mr. Ross's gift for character and witty dialogue, once called him "the Jane Austen of the political espionage story." Other critics placed him in the hard-boiled tradition of Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett.
        Mr. Thomas reveled in bleak tales of political corruption, string-pulling and behind-the-scenes scheming. "I do use the fact that I've been in the back rooms  where the deals are being cut," he once told an interviewer. "If there's a trace of cynicism in my books, it's only based on reality."
        He was born and raised in Oklahoma City, where his father was an unsuccessful building contractor. After seeing combat in the Philippines with the United States Army during World War II, he earned a bachelor's degree in English from the University of Oklahoma in Norman, in 1949.  While attending college, he worked as a sportswriter for The Daily Oklahoman in Oklahoma City.
        In 1950 he became the public relations director for the Oklahoma branch of the liberal National Farmers Union. Two years later he was named the union's national public relations director and moved to Denver.
        In 1956 he formed his own public relations company, Stapp, Thomas & Wade, of  Denver, which specialized in political campaigns. For a brief time the company worked on the 1956 Congressional campaign of George McGovern in South Dakota.
        From 1958 to 1959, Mr. Thomas was diplomatic correspondent for the Armed Forces Network in Bonn, a job that exposed him to cold-war diplomatic intrigue.  A brief stint in Nigeria as a political consultant later provided the material for "The Seersucker Whipsaw," about the mischief unleashed when a public relations team is called in to manage a political campaign in an emerging African nation.
        After returning to the United States in 1961, he worked as spokesman for the  American Federation for State, County and Municipal Employees union and as a consultant to various branches of the American Government.
        In 1965, while working at Vista headquarters in Washington, Mr. Thomas turned out his first novel, "The Cold War Swap," which he wrote in six weeks. The novel, a tale of skulduggery by the Central Intelligence Agency, received an Edgar Award for best first novel from the Mystery Writers of America.
        His many novels include "Cast a Yellow Shadow" (1967), "The Porkchoppers" (1972), "The Money Harvest" (1975), "The Mordida Man" (1981) and "Out on the Rim" (1987).  "Briarpatch" won an Edgar Award as best mystery novel of 1985. His most recent novel was "Ah, Treachery!" (1994).
        The novels written under the name Oliver Bleeck, including "The Brass Go-Between" and "Protocol for a Kidnapping," feature Philip St. Ives, a professional go-between who recovers kidnap victims and stolen property. The character was played by Charles Bronson in the 1976 film "St. Ives."
        With Dennis O'Flaherty, Mr. Thomas wrote the screenplay for "Hammett" (1983). He also wrote the screenplay for "Bad Company" (1995), a film noir that starred  Laurence Fishburne.
        He is survived by his wife.
      