
        Heida Hermanns, a pianist, teacher and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 89.
        Mrs. Hermanns was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, in 1906. She received her first piano lessons from her mother, Alice Goldschmidt Hermanns, and when she was 15 she enrolled at the Berlin Hochschule fur Musik. Her teachers included Egon Petri, Artur Schnabel, Carl Friedberg and Isabella Vengerova.
        She made her debut with the Berlin Philharmonic when she was 18 and toured Europe as a recitalist and concerto soloist through the 1920's and early 1930's. In 1931 she married Artur Holde, a music critic and author. They immigrated to the United States in 1936.
        Mrs. Hermanns made her New York debut at Town Hall in 1942, and gave annual recitals that often included works by Busoni, Dussek, Kodaly and other composers whose works were not in the mainstream repertory. Her interest in unusual works  brought her to the attention of the Society for Forgotten Music, with which she  appeared several times.
        As a chamber music player, Mrs. Hermanns performed regularly with John Corigliano, the concertmaster of the New York Philharmonic (and the father of the composer of the same name). She also gave duo-piano recitals and made recordings with Ruth Steinkraus Cohen.
        In the late 1940's, Mrs. Hermanns and Mr. Holde moved to Westport, where they helped start the Friends of Music, an organization that presented chamber music concerts, there. Mrs. Hermanns was also a founder of Performers of Connecticut, which arranged performance opportunities for young musicians and ran a contest that two years ago was renamed the Heida Hermanns Young Performers Competition.
        She was also a supporter of the Levitt Pavilion for the Performing Arts. When the Westport Arts Center was built in the mid-1980's, she underwrote its concert hall, which is called Artur Holde Hall after her husband, who died in 1962.
        No immediate family members survive.
      