
        Mario A. Procaccino, an immigrant's son from the Bronx who tapped the resentments of disaffected New Yorkers from outside Manhattan in a colorful but  unsuccessful bid to wrest the mayoralty from John V. Lindsay in 1969, died yesterday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx. Mr. Procaccino, who moved  to Harrison, N.Y., a few years ago and spent his winters in San Juan, P.R., was 83.
        Mr. Procaccino's death was caused by complications of diabetes that led to heart failure, said his daughter, Marierose, of Harrison.
        A stocky man with a pencil-thin mustache, the shrewd, tough, streetwise Mr.  Procaccino rose through the ranks of the Democratic Party to become its standard-bearer in a race against Mr. Lindsay that was memorable for exposing the alienation of many New Yorkers from the Manhattanites that Mr. Procaccino dubbed "limousine liberals."
        Although his law-and-order message was widely perceived as a thinly disguised attack on black and Hispanic people, Mr. Procaccino bridled against what he called "the efforts to brand me as a racist and a shoot-to-kill guy."
        He said: "They try to turn me into an ogre. It's nonsense. I'm a progressive  Democrat, the same as I've always been. I want to be Mayor of all the people, black and white, Jew and gentile, rich and poor. The only thing I care about is  whether you're a good guy or a bad guy."
        Mario Procaccino was the self-proclaimed champion of the average man. He made his definition clear: "I'll tell you who the average man is. He's the guy who works hard all day and maybe comes home too tired to move, but he has to moonlight anyway to pay his bills. He wants to educate his kids. He wants his neighborhood to be peaceful and clean. He doesn't have a doorman. His kids go to public schools. He rides the subways and the buses. He never burned his draft card or a flag and he never will. He tries to play the game by the rules, and for that he's getting pushed into a corner. That's who the average man is."
        While other candidates in the mayoral primary spoke of the need for conciliation and social vision and a better break for the city's blacks and poor and aged, Mr. Procaccino, Comptroller from 1966 to 1970, was on the sidewalks of the white middle- and lower-middle-class neighborhoods of the Bronx, Queens and  Staten Island, pounding home his theme:
        "We must stop coddling the criminals and pampering the punks," he would roar. "The do-gooders and bleeding hearts must stop handcuffing the police."
        He liked to say, "It's safer to be in Vietnam than to be in New York at 3 o'clock in the morning." He often told his audiences what he would do if he caught a burglar in his home: "I wouldn't run for the handbook. I wouldn't call my lawyer. I'd just blow his brains out."
        He proposed more severe punishment for repeat offenders, laws to treat "young hoodlums as criminals instead of youthful offenders" and restoration of capital  punishment.
        "I want to restore the rule of reason to this town," he said.
        When the campaign ended, Mr. Lindsay, who was running for re-election as an independent because he failed to win the Republic primary nomination, had 1,012,633 votes; Mr. Procaccino, the Democrat who thought throughout the campaign that he was the front-runner, had 831,772, and John J. Marchi, the Republican candidate from Staten Island, had 542,411.
        Long after the tumult and the shouting, Mr. Procaccino lingered in the memory for his sometimes wayward use of words. Besides "limousine liberals," he was remembered for the time he groped to describe his fellow Democrat Frank O'Connor and said, "He grows on you, like cancer."
        When Wall Street threats prompted the Mayor to drop Mr. Procaccino's proposed increase in the tax on stock transfers, the Comptroller was quoted as saying, "Why must we always milk the public goat and never touch the sacred cow?" When he shouted, "And I say to you, John Lindsay, the jig is up," his aides rushed to tell reporters that Mr. Procaccino didn't mean anything racial; the word "jig" referred to an Irish dance.
        On another occasion, before a black audience, he declared, "My heart is as black as yours," and when Mayor Lindsay began to needle him about his emotionalism, Mr. Procaccino responded that some of history's greatest men were  emotional: "Moses, Jesus, Joe DiMaggio and Joe Namath."
        After losing the mayoral race, Mr. Procaccino served as a special assistant to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, was a Commissioner of Taxation and Finance, the president of the State Tax Commission and a member of the Battery Park City Authority. In recent years, Mr. Procaccino served as an administrative judge for the state retirement system and maintained a law practice in association with the firm of Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg.
        Mr. Procaccino was a municipal and civil court judge, the Director of the Mortgage Banking and Housing agency, a deputy comptroller and the chief law assistant in the Bronx Supreme Court before being elected Comptroller in 1965. He traced the origin of his political career to 1944, when he met Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia at a war-bond rally held by an Italian-American organization.
        "I was speaking in Italian and had the crowd pretty excited," Mr. Procaccino  recalled. "They were shouting and cheering and standing up at the end." When he  saw the Mayor approaching the stage, Mr. Procaccino stopped talking, but Mr. La  Guardia signaled him to continue.
        "When I finished, he got up in his usual flamboyant manner and came over to me," Mr. Procaccino said. "He planted a kiss on my cheek. 'Listen,' he says, 'I'm proud to have some Italian blood in me. Stick around. I want to talk to you.'
        "He asked me, 'What do you do for a living?' and I told him I was a lawyer. 'You appeal to people,' he said. 'You ought to be in politics.' I said, 'I don't belong to a club or anything.' 'I don't care about that,' the Mayor said. 'Call  me tomorrow.' "
        Mr. Procaccino said he thought the Mayor was just being polite, so he did not call the next day or the day after that. On the third day, the Mayor telephoned  him.
        "You get over here," the Mayor said, and soon Mr. Procaccino, who had been making $15 a week as a lawyer when he married Maria Piombino in 1941, found himself an assistant city corporation counsel at a salary of $3,500 a year.
        "You could live well on that," he said long afterward. "Our rent, for example, was $37 a month, and that was for a nice apartment, four or five rooms."
        Mario Angelo Procaccino was born in Bisaccia, Italy, 50 miles southeast of Naples, on Sept. 5, 1912. He was the second of three sons of Angelo and Rosa Procaccino, a shoemaker and hat maker, respectively. In 1921, when Mario was 9,  the family immigrated to the United States and settled in the Bronx, where Mr. Procaccino spent most of his life, first in Fordham and later in Tremont.
        He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and City College, where he was president of his graduating class in 1935. He then went to Fordham Law School, where he made the dean's list and was a member of the editorial board of The Law Review before graduating in 1939.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Procaccino is survived by his wife, Maria, also of  Harrison, and two brothers, Dr. Anthony Procaccino of Pelham Manor, N.Y., and John A. Procaccino of Yonkers.
      