
        Richard F. Vancil, a longtime professor at the Harvard Business School who was considered an expert on how corporations pick chief executives, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Madison, Conn. He was 64 and had homes in Belmont, Mass., and Madison.
        Mr. Vancil had Alzheimer's disease for almost a decade, his son, Richard, said.
        During his 38-year career at Harvard, Mr. Vancil wrote or edited more than 20 books and monographs and published many articles. He also founded The Management Analysis Center, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., in 1964. It was later renamed The MAC Group and after a merger became Gemini Consulting.
        He became interested in the issue of chief executive succession in 1982, while listening to Reginald Jones, the former chief executive of the General Electric Company, describe the process by which his successor, John F. Welch, was chosen. Mr. Vancil began a five-year research project involving 27 other chief executives and an analysis of how 227 large corporations chose executives  over 24 years. In 1987 he published his findings in "Passing the Baton" (Harvard Business School Press), a book that was excerpted in Fortune magazine.
        Mr. Vancil was born on Sept. 17, 1931, in St. Louis. After he earned a B.S. in accounting from Northwestern University in 1953, he went on to earn an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School. He served for three years as an officer in the Army Finance Corps, and then returned to Harvard as an instructor in 1958. Although he had intended to stay only a year, he remained to earn a doctorate in business administration and became a full professor in 1968. He was on medical leave at the time of his death.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Emily Robinson; his mother, Pearl Campbell, and stepfather, Clyde Campbell of Columbia, S.C.; a daughter, Virginia Wilkins of Madison; two sons, Robinson, of Madison, and Richard, of Wayland, Mass.; two sisters, Joan Underwood of Columbia, S.C., and Mary Lynn Musgrove of  Columbus, Ohio; a stepbrother, George Campbell of Livonia, Mich. and five grandchildren.
      