
        Heiner Muller, widely regarded as Germany's leading playwright, died on Saturday in a hospital in Berlin. He was 66 and had lived for years in the eastern part of that city.
        The cause was cancer, according to the news agency Deutsche Presse-Agentur.
        Mr. Muller, an independent Marxist, wrote roughly 30 stage works. They were  notable for their forceful language and unsparing political criticism and were often reworkings of classical Greek plays or Shakespeare.
        In London on Monday, The Guardian said that he "was the most influential German playwright since Bertolt Brecht," who died in 1956, and that he pursued "a powerful critique of both the failed socialist experiment in his native East  Germany and the barbarity of capitalism."
        The Suddeutsche Zeitung said that "he teaches us that hope for a better future can only exist as contradiction to history."
        Mr. Muller was born in a village not far from Dresden in what became East Germany after World War II. His father was a political prisoner, a jailed socialist who opposed Nazism.
        He was 16 when the war ended, and he remained in East Germany. "Most of my life I have been a victim of German history," Mr. Muller said in an interview in 1990. "I have to deal with history because it has dealt so much with me. Besides, onstage you need an enemy. German history is my enemy, and I want to stare into the white of its eye."
        He summed up the East German state as "a dream that made a nightmare of history, like Kleist's Prussia and Shakespeare's England."
        In 1951 he moved to East Berlin and did clerical and journalistic work for several years before taking a job with the Government-supported, Berlin-based Berliner Ensemble, then headed by Brecht.
        Mr. Muller's first stage work, "Der Lohndrucker" ("The Wage Dumper"), which was performed in Berlin and elsewhere in 1958, was about an overachieving East German bricklayer. The work drew opposition from the Communist Party and is said to have been kept off stages in East Germany until 1988.
        For years Mr. Muller remained deeply out of favor with East Germany's authoritarian authorities, who called him a "historical pessimist." He was dismissed from the Writers' Union, the main East German writers' organization, in the early 1960's, and his plays were banned.
        But in the 1980's, the East German Government, reportedly motivated by a desire to capitalize on his international prestige, began treating him better. He was awarded the country's National Prize in 1986.
        Even his admirers say that his plays are complicated, extremely idiosyncratic and frequently difficult for theatergoers to understand. As the Suddeutsche Zeitung put it, "He made things difficult for his readers and his audiences not  because he eccentrically wanted to prove to everyone how learned he was, but rather because he sought a participating partner, thinking and feeling along with him -- the recipient as fellow-producer."
        Mr. Muller's playwriting has been called surrealistic or Dadaesque in its esthetics and confrontational in its politics.
        In a New York Times review of "The Hamlet Machine," staged by Robert Wilson in 1986 at New York University, Mel Gussow wrote: "The plays by Heiner Muller are as dense as they are brief -- shell fragments fired into our collective psyche." He described the play as "a small still life with silent scream, until  the climax, when that scream becomes an ear-piercing reality."
        In "The Hamlet Machine" and other works, Mr. Muller deals with subjects like  terrorism in its many guises, including genocide and assassination. His admirers have credited him with exercising a moral force.
        Another well-known Muller play, "Quartet," has been described as a "mordant rumination" on the French novel "Les Liaisons Dangereuses."
        Among his other works are "Philoctetes," "Cement," "Sleep Dream Scream" and "The Task."
        After East and West Germany were reunited in 1990, Mr. Muller worked chiefly  as a director. His autobiography, "War Without Battle: Life Under Two Dictatorships," was published in 1992. In the last months of his life, he tried  to forestall plans by another noted German dramatist, Rolf Hochhuth, to gain control of the Berliner Ensemble theater company, of which Mr. Muller had become the artistic leader.
        He is survived by his third wife, Brigitte, and their 4-year-old son.
      