
        Palmer Williams, a documentary film maker and CBS News executive who played a central role in creating the programs "See It Now" and "60 Minutes," died yesterday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 79 and also kept a home in Truro, Mass.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Kevin Tedesco, a CBS spokesman.
        Mr. Williams came to CBS in the early days of television journalism in 1951. He was asked by Fred W. Friendly, the former president of CBS News, to join him  and the broadcaster Edward R. Murrow in adapting the program "Hear It Now" from  radio to the new medium.
        "See It Now" was on the air from 1951 to 1958, years in which Mr. Williams worked behind the scenes as a producer, production manager and finally as director of operations. Notable programs included Mr. Murrow's critical examination of the career of Senator Joseph McCarthy.
        Eventually, Mr. Williams spent nearly half of his 30 years at the network with "60 Minutes." He joined the program at the outset in 1968 and as a senior producer was credited with contributing significantly to its success.
        In its early years, he sometimes appeared with the essayist Andy Rooney in a  segment called "Digressions," in which silhouetted figures dubbed "Ipso" and "Facto" bantered about people and events. Mr. Williams retired from CBS in 1981  but worked two more years as a special consultant to "60 Minutes," which is now  in its 28th season.
        Mr. Williams was born in Tenafly, N.J., and headed for Hollywood at age 19. After some jobs as an extra, he returned East, worked as a set designer and spent his summers acting, directing and building scenery in Catskills resorts.
        He developed a taste for film making in World War II when he worked for Frank Capra on the Oscar-winning series "Why We Fight." He then became a producer for  the War Department, working on newsreels and documentary films.
        Mr. Williams's experience in television then began with John Houseman's Media Productions, which made documentary films for the medium in its infancy. Before  joining CBS, he also worked for Burgess Meredith's New World Films company, creating broadcast pilots.
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife of 46 years, Barbara Payne Williams; a daughter, Amanda Williams of Manhattan; three sons, Stephen, of Truro, Mark, of  Kingston, Mass., and John, of Fairfax, Va.; a sister, Emily Evans of Falmouth, Mass., and two grandsons.
      