
        A. G. Gaston, a black multimillionaire businessman in Alabama who used his money and influence in the cause of civil rights and shrugged off accusations that he was an Uncle Tom, died yesterday in Birmingham, his hometown. He was 103.
        Mr. Gaston died at the Medical Center East, where he was taken a week ago after becoming ill, his nephew Paul Gardner said. Mr. Gardner said his uncle had never really retired and had been following plans for a new building to house one of his businesses when he was stricken.
        At the height of civil rights confrontations in Birmingham in the 1960's, Mr. Gaston was considered by whites and blacks alike to be cautious and moderate -- too cautious and moderate, in the opinion of some black militants.
        Mr. Gaston replied that what black people needed was "a Martin Luther King of economics who will fire the people up like they are being fired up for civil rights."
        "It doesn't do any good to arrive at first-class citizenship," he said, "if you arrive broke."
        In any event, Mr. Gaston's wealth and quiet approach made him a liaison between white moderates and civil rights demonstrators. In May 1963, he posted $5,000 bail for Dr. King and the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy after the two civil rights leaders had been jailed for marching without a permit. His standing in Birmingham was such that a white judge accepted his personal check without question.
        Mr. Gaston let Dr. King and other civil rights organizers meet in a motel he  owned. Shortly after Mr. Gaston posted bail for Dr. King and Mr. Abernathy, the  motel was damaged in a firebombing. In September 1963, Mr. Gaston's home was also the target of a firebombing, although it escaped damage.
        In March 1965, civil rights marchers in the famous Selma-to-Montgomery trek stayed at a farm owned by Mr. Gaston.
        Mr. Gaston was approached in the 1960's by a prominent white businessman seeking money for the Birmingham Symphony. Mr. Gaston agreed to donate $2,000, then pressed the businessman to provide more opportunities for his black workers.
        In January 1976, Mr. Gaston was kidnapped by a man who broke into his home and beat him and his wife, then took Mr. Gaston away in his own car. The police  found the car, the kidnapper and Mr. Gaston two hours later and called the episode a ransom attempt gone awry.
        Arthur George Gaston was the grandson of a slave. He was born in Demopolis, Ala., about 100 miles southwest of Birmingham. His father died when he was a boy; his mother went to Birmingham to work as a servant, and he stayed with a grandmother in Demopolis.
        Mr. Gaston got a 10th-grade education, enlisted in the Army during World War  I and, when he was discharged, began doing menial work for a Birmingham coal company.
        He had already decided he wanted to be an entrepreneur. "Start somewhere" was one of the business maxims he cited decades later, after he had amassed a fortune estimated at $30 million to $40 million.
        Mr. Gaston started by saving all the money he could and opening a loan business that served his fellow coal workers. On the side, he sold peanuts, dug  holes and painted boxcars.
        In 1923, he founded an insurance company with $500. The same year, he started a funeral home. Both prospered, and as the years went by his holdings included a chain of insurance companies, radio stations, a savings and loan institution and other businesses. On the wall behind the eight-foot-long desk in his main office, he kept a tinted photograph of himself as a 7-year-old, standing by an ox cart in front of an unpainted cabin.
        His first wife, Creola, died many years ago. A son, A. G. Gaston Jr., died in 1973. Surviving are his wife of some 50 years, Minnie; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and many nieces and nephews.
      