
        Sidney Ratner, a professor emeritus at Rutgers University who specialized in  economic history, died on Jan. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 87.
        Dr. Ratner was the author of many books, including "Taxation and Democracy in America" and "The Tariff in American History." He was also a co-author of the book "The Evolution of the American Economy."
        Aside from American business history, he had a wide range of interests, including the history of the Supreme Court and John Dewey, the philosopher and educator. He wrote extensively about philosophy and published a series of essays about Dewey.
        The Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, of which he was a member, gave him its Herbert Schneider Award in 1989.
        Dr. Ratner was born in New York City and graduated in 1931 from City College, where he majored in philosophy. He received a master's degree and a doctorate in history from Columbia University in 1942.
        During World War II, he was an economist for the Government's Board of Economic Warfare and the Foreign Economic Administration. He then became a prinicipal economist in the planning division of the State Department.
        According to his wife, Louise Rosenblatt, Dr. Ratner was able to use his understanding of economics to help alleviate a shortage of Swedish ball bearings that were necessary for the manufacture of Allied landing craft. He suspected that the bearing industry was controlled by an international cartel, which included the Germans, who put pressure on the Swedes to limit the supply. Once the United States initiated diplomatic efforts with Sweden, the shortage disappeared in two weeks.
        Dr. Ratner was also influential in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's attempt  to expand the size of the Supreme Court by discovering a precedent in President  Ulysses S. Grant's appointments to the Court.
        In 1946, Dr. Ratner left the State Department to join the history department  at Rutgers University. He retired as a distinguished professor in 1978.
        In addition to his wife of 63 years, Dr. Ratner is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Arlington, Va.; a sister, Helen Marlow of New York City, and a granddaughter.
      