
        Dr. Ursula C. Schwerin, former president of New York City Technical College and the first woman to head a technical college in the United States, died on Friday in a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. She was 71 and had been a longtime resident of Queens.
        Her husband, Ernest Schwerin, said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.
        Dr. Schwerin was born and reared in Berlin. In 1941, her family moved to the United States, where, she once said, they were considered "enemy aliens" and her father, a dentist, was unable to pursue his profession.
        After high school, to please her parents, she went to college. But her first  exposure to higher education ended inauspiciously: she flunked out of Union Junior College in Cranford, N.J. "I simply wasn't ready for it," she later told  an interviewer.
        At age 32, she decided to return to college; her choice this time was the school she later led, New York City Community College in downtown Brooklyn, part of the City University of New York. After completing a dental hygiene program in 1958, she did not stop her education. Working during the day and going to school at night, she received bachelor's and master's degrees, and a doctorate in human relations, from New York University.
        She went on to become dean of instruction at the State University Agricultural and Technical College at Farmingdale, L.I. In 1978, she became president of the school everybody called CUNY Tech, 20 years after receiving her associate's degree there. Dr. Schwerin was the first woman to be named president of a City University community college and the second to be president  of any of the system's colleges, after Jacqueline G. Wexler of Hunter.
        Dr. Schwerin fought for both money and respect for the college, which serves  a largely low-income, minority population. In 1980, it was recognized as a senior college in the CUNY system and renamed New York City Technical College. She retired in 1988.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Ruth Juretschke of Brooklyn.
      