
        Eugene Underwood, a specialist in admiralty law who defended the owner of the Andrea Doria in a Federal court hearing arising from the 1956 sinking of the luxury liner, died on Monday at a nursing home in Orlando, Fla. He was 99.
        Mr. Underwood, who lived in Orlando in recent years, had suffered a stroke two years ago, his family said.
        Before his retirement in 1972, Mr. Underwood had been a leader of the admiralty bar in New York City for 50 years. The highlight of his career was his defense of the Italian Line, the company that owned the Andrea Doria, which sank off Nantucket hours after being struck by the Swedish liner Stockholm on the night of July 25, 1956.
        About 50 people were killed in the disaster. The many lawsuits arising from it were settled without a legal finding as to who had been at fault. A Congressional investigation soon after the sinking also ended without a determination of liability.
        Mr. Underwood, with the firm then known as Burlingham, Hupper & Kennedy, defended the Italian interests at a 1956 Federal court hearing in Manhattan. At  the outset, officers and crew members of the Stockholm suggested that an unexpected course change by the Andrea Doria might have caused the collision.
        But Mr. Underwood made the most of accounts by sailors who had been on the Stockholm bridge that the Swedish ship might have drifted up to three miles off its course. In cross-examining the Stockholm's helmsman, Mr. Underwood asked him if it was true, as his fellow sailors acknowledged, that he sometimes let his attention wander.
        "Yes," the helmsman said, "but I kept the course within 1 or 2 degrees."
        "If your attention was wandering, how do you know that?" Mr. Underwood said.
        "I was also looking at the compass occasionally," the helmsman said.
        Born in Valparaiso, Ind., Mr. Underwood graduated from George Washington University in 1919 and received his law degree there in 1921. He was a member of the Maritime Law Association and the American College of Trial Lawyers.
        His first marriage, to Sally E. Nicholas of Philadelphia, ended in divorce. In 1961, he married Martha Cardwell of Thomasville, Ga., and Norfolk, Va. She died in 1990.
        Surviving are a son by his first marriage, Eugene Jr., and two stepchildren,  J. Thomas Cardwell of Orlando and Nancy Cardwell of Arlington, Va.
      