
        Franklin G. Bishop, a businessman and philanthropist who delighted in blending capitalism with left-of-center politics, died on Sunday at his home in  Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Evelyn, said.
        Mr. Bishop, widely known as Jerry, was the retired president of the Matrix Corporation, a manufacturer of medical-imaging equipment whose main plant is in  Orangeburg, N.Y.
        When he took over the company in 1979, it was about five years old and struggling, with annual sales of only a few million dollars. Mr. Bishop invested in the company himself and soon took it public. When he retired in 1988, it had  sales of $108 million and about 1,000 employees.
        Though Matrix's principal plant is in Rockland County (the company started out in Northvale, N.J.), Mr. Bishop managed it from the same small office suite  in Rockville Centre that once housed his own consulting businesses. His wife served as Matrix's treasurer and director of investor relations.
        "Forbes said we are one of the 200 best-managed companies in the United States," Mr. Bishop, a self-described nonstop talker, boasted good-naturedly in  a 1984 interview. "That's not too bad for an old socialist."
        Mr. Bishop may have been exaggerating his philosophy slightly, but just to make it clear that he was not speaking totally in jest, he went on to describe himself: "New York liberal, bleeding-heart liberal, limousine liberal -- I think they're the greatest words in the world."
        He pushed efforts to hire more women and people from minority groups, especially recent emigrants from Asia, Poland, Haiti and the Soviet Union. Many  workers were referred to Matrix by social-service agencies. In a 1985 interview, he said he wanted "diverse and interesting employees, rather than robots." Mr. Bishop's work attire often featured blue jeans and boots.
        Mr. Bishop, a graduate of Columbia University's Combined Plan, which allows students to pursue liberal arts and engineering degrees simultaneously, gave $1  million to the Combined Plan in 1985. He also contributed to the university's Center for Jewish Student Life and was a member of the Columbia Engineering Council and the executive committee of the Jewish Campus Life Fund.
        He also contributed to the Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa and Hebrew Union College in Jerusalem.
        He was a director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, the Audubon Society  and the Rockville Centre Democratic Club, of which he was president in 1975 and  1976.
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, he lived in Pittsburgh for part of his childhood. His family later moved to Far Rockaway, Queens, and Mr. Bishop attended Columbia on  a scholarship, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1942 and a Bachelor of Science in industrial engineering the next year. He received a master's in engineering from New York University in 1948.
        In the 1950's, he was a labor-relations adviser to several unions, to New York City and on several Federal Government projects. In 1956, he founded his own engineering-consulting and venture-capital concerns.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Michael, of Seattle; two daughters, Gene, of Philadelphia, and Leah, of Los Angeles; a brother, Morton, of Valley Stream, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      