
        Robert Russell (Chubby) Wise, a leading bluegrass fiddler who collaborated on the showpiece "Orange Blossom Special," died on Saturday in Bowie, Md. He was 80 and lived in Glen St. Mary, Fla.
        As a member of Bill Monroe's Blue Grass Boys in the 1940's, Mr. Wise helped define the sound of bluegrass fiddling: a mixture of the drone double-stops of mountain music, the bent and sliding notes of rural blues and a speedy, swinging, daredevil virtuosity.
        Mr. Wise was born in Lake City, Fla. He backed up his father, a fiddler, on  banjo and guitar, and took up the fiddle as a teen-ager. In the 1930's he lived  in Jacksonville, Fla., driving a cab by day and playing fiddle at night; there,  he and a fellow fiddler, Ervin Rouse, were inspired by a new streamliner, the Orange Blossom Special, to write a fiddle tune with train-whistle sounds. The tune, named after the train, was copyrighted by Mr. Rouse, although before his death in 1981 he acknowledged Mr. Wise's contribution.
        Mr. Wise moved in 1938 to Gainesville, Fla., where he joined the Jubilee Hillbillies, who had a daily morning radio show. In 1942 he joined Bill Monroe and the Blue Grass Boys, and stayed with the group for most of the decade, completing its classic lineup alongside Lester Flatt on guitar and Earl Scruggs  on banjo.
        He became a member of the Grand Ole Opry in 1943. In 1948 and 1949, he worked with Clyde Moody, who had sung with Mr. Monroe; Mr. Wise and Mr. Moody wrote "Shenandoah Waltz," a million-selling hit for Mr. Moody.
        He returned to work with Mr. Monroe at the end of 1949 before leaving the group in 1950. Mr. Wise also played at recording sessions in the 1940's for Hank Williams, Red Foley and others.
        During the early 1950's Mr. Wise worked with various groups, including Flatt  and Scruggs, then was hired by the country singer Hank Snow in 1954. He stayed with Mr. Snow until 1970 before starting a solo career; he also sat in on Merle  Haggard's album "The Fightin' Side of Me."
        From 1969 on, Mr. Wise recorded extensively on the Stoneway label, based in Houston, playing bluegrass, Western swing and country songs. He also regularly toured the circuit of bluegrass and country clubs and festivals.
        He is survived by his wife, Rossi.
      