
        Thomas G. Garth, the recently retired president of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, under whose stewardship the number of youngsters served each year almost doubled to more than two million, died on Tuesday at his home in Roswell, Ga. He was 60 and had lived in Ridgewood, N.J., until the clubs moved their headquarters to Atlanta from Manhattan in 1994.
        The cause was cancer, the organization said.
        Mr. Garth spent 40 years -- his entire career -- working for the clubs, 30 of them at the national office. It was largely his influence that caused the service organization to change its name officially from Boys Clubs of America in 1990 to recognize the growing number of girls and young women who joined the local clubs.
        One of his proudest achievements was bringing the clubs to youths whose communities lacked resources for children. In 1988, when he became national director, a title since changed to president, fewer than 40 clubs operated in housing projects; 280 do today.
        More than a dozen clubs were opened on American Indian lands to serve impoverished youngsters there. Other clubs started operations at such unusual locations as military bases, a shopping mall, a center for the homeless and a correctional institution for youthful offenders.
        Born in St. Louis, Thomas Gerard Garth attended the University of Illinois, but left before graduation to go to work for Boys Clubs of America. Later, at the national office, he held such positions as the organization's first director of Government/United Way relations and its director of national field services.
        In 1975 he overhauled the organization to improve services to local clubs. The clubs now emphasize educational achievement, career preparation, drug and alcohol avoidance, health and fitness, gang and violence prevention, cultural activities, leadership development and community service.
        As chief executive since 1988, he oversaw a national and regional staff of about 160 as well as local club personnel that grew to about 6,200 full-time trained professionals at 1,775 neighborhood locations. The clubs, open to children and youths aged 6 to 18, also count on 77,000 volunteers across the country. He became president emeritus in November.
        Mr. Garth is survived by his wife of 34 years, Irene Trapp Garth; three daughters, Carolyn Jaeger of Midland Park, N.J., Nancy DeMarco of Charlotte, N.C., and Lori Garth of Jersey City; his mother, Edna Garth, and a sister, Joan  Glatt, both of St. Louis, and a granddaughter.
      