
        The Rev. Kenneth Owen Jones, a longtime minister at New York's largest Presbyterian church who was particularly noted for his devotion to his parishioners, died of a heart attack in his office on Jan. 7. He was 77.
        During the 32 years that Dr. Jones worked at the 2,500-member Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, he won hearts by his eagerness to help people in distress,  said his fellow ministers. When a parishioner was in the hospital, or when a death occurred in someone's family, Dr. Jones was certain to be a comforting presence, his colleagues said.
        Dr. Jones was a guy who gave himself away unselfishly," said Dr. Thomas K.  Tewell, the church's senior minister. "Instead of burning out, he seemed to think it was a privilege to be with people in their time of need. When there was a death or a crisis, he got new energy."
        Once, Dr. Jones arose very early to accompany an elderly widow on a 16-hour journey for the burial of her sister, said the Rev. Randolph L.C. Weber, who like Dr. Jones was an associate pastor at the church.
        Dr. Jones was responsible for recruiting church members, counseling and recording telephone prayer messages.
        He joined the church in May 1963 after serving as an assistant pastor at Fort Washington Collegiate Church and as minister at the Fort George Presbyterian Church. He was moderator, or the highest elected officer, of the New York City Presbytery, which governs the city's Presbyterian churches, in 1961-2.
        Dr. Jones was a leader in the Welsh-American community and a former president of the St. David's Society of the State of New York.
        The descendant of a 19th-century Welsh clergyman who broke with the Anglican  Church, Dr. Jones grew up in a small Welsh community outside Madison, Wis. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1940, and from McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago in 1943. He moved to New York City to work toward a master's degree at Union Theological Seminary.
        He is survived by his sister-in-law, Mrs. Graydon Jones of St. Joseph, Mo., and two nieces. A memorial service will be held Wednesday at 7 P.M. at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church.
      