
        Richard Cobb, an iconoclastic British historian who helped revolutionize the  study of the French Revolution by concentrating on the minutiae of big events, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Abingdon, England. He was 78.
        In an academic career spent mainly at Oxford, Mr. Cobb was at once a respected and influential scholar, an inspirational teacher and an endearing eccentric who sometimes carried his iconoclasm to extremes.
        There was the time, for example, when he invited an old school chum who had  had been imprisoned for killing his mother to the high table at Balliol College. Carefully seating his friend next to a retired law professor, he announced, "My  guest has a keen interest in the penal system."
        Mr. Cobb, who fell in love with France on his first visit in the 1930's, lived there for nine years after World War II, happily rummaging through dusty records in national and regional archives by day, carousing by night, and still  finding time to turn out a stream of learned papers and the first of what became a multi-volume military history of the revolution.
        He might well have stayed in France had his repeated applications for citizenship been accepted, but he returned to England in 1955 and took a series  of academic posts while completing the work, which was eventually published in English in 1987 as "The People's Armies."
        The title was instructive. Mr. Cobb, who also published collections of essays on French history and on his own experiences, had an intense identification with the people who experience rather than make history, an identification that was apparent in an outpouring of histories, among them "The Police and the People" (1970), "Reactions to the French Revolution" (1972), and "Streets of Paris," (1980).
        It was a reflection of his interests that when he wrote about the 1937 Paris  Exposition, he focused on a guide who was also a serial killer.
        Writing history from the perspective of the little people also reflected his  lifelong suspicion of authority. When he was denounced by an Oxford don as an anarchist, he took it as a compliment.
        Mr. Cobb, whose histories were often likened to novels, wrote so vividly that one reviewer, marveling at his description of silk workers in Lyons during the revolution, was so impressed that he gushed an unintended double-entendre, declaring that Mr. Cobb made it seem as if "he was under the smocks of those unhappy women."
        He is survived by his third wife, Margaret; three sons and a daughter.
      