
        Frank Howard, the colorful coach who in 30 years took Clemson University from football obscurity to the ranks of the national elite, died yesterday at his home in Clemson, S.C. He was 86.
        The sports information office at the university said the cause of death was congestive heart failure. Howard was hospitalized in November because of circulatory problems, last month after a fainting spell and this month after a minor heart attack.
        After retiring from coaching in 1969, he was athletic director at Clemson until mandatory retirement in 1971. He then kept an office in the athletic department and, until three weeks ago, went there five days a week.
        "I'm not sure what he did there," the sports information director, Tim Bourret, said. "Whatever a retired legend does."
        Howard liked to say he retired for health reasons. "The alumni got sick of me," he would say.
        He had a quick sense of humor. In the late 1950's, after a loss to Duke, he was asked to define the turning point. "It was three years ago," he said, "when  I didn't recruit any half backs."
        Frank James Howard was born on March 25, 1909, on a cotton farm in Barlow Bend, Ala., a town that he said was "three wagon greasin's from Mobile." He called himself the Bashful Baron of Barlow Bend.
        In high school he played football, baseball and basketball and was president  of the junior and senior classes. At the University of Alabama, where he was an  honor student on an academic scholarship, he was a 185-pound guard on the football team from 1928 to 1930.
        When he could not find work as an accountant, he became an assistant football coach at Clemson under Jess Neely. "I also coached track, was ticket manager, recruited players and had charge of football equipment," Howard said. "In my spare time I cut grass, lined tennis courts and operated the canteen while the regular man was out to lunch."
        In 1940, when Neely became coach at Rice, the Clemson athletic council interviewed Howard as a potential successor. As the council discussed what to do, Howard listened from the back of the room. Finally, a council member said, "I nominate Frank Howard."
        Long pause.
        "I second the nomination," Howard said.
        He got the job, lost his copy of the one-year contract and never signed another. From 1940 to 1969 his teams compiled a 165-118-12 record. They won two  championships in the Southern Conference and later six in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Between 1949 and 1959 Clemson played in six bowl games.
        Shortly after he retired as coach, Clemson named its stadium Frank Howard Field. In 1989, he was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.
        With all his success, his highest salary was $25,000 a year. The president of the university, Dr. R. F. Poole, feared that professors who earned less would be upset. "He called me up and said that he didn't want me to tell anybody what I made," Howard once said. "I said: 'Doc, you don't have to worry. I'm as ashamed  as you are of what you pay me.' "
        Surviving are his wife of 62 years, the former Anna Tribble; a son, Jimmy, of Clemson; a daughter, Alice McClure of Gastonia, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      