
        James E.B. Breslin, an English professor and modern American poetry specialist who jumped the academic track to produce an acclaimed biography of the painter Mark Rothko, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 60, and at the time of his death he was both a professor of English and acting chairman of the Art Practice department at the University of California at Berkeley.
        His wife, Ramsay, said the cause was a heart attack.
        A native of Brooklyn who graduated from Brooklyn College, obtained a master's at the University of North Carolina and received a doctorate from the University of Minnesota, Mr. Breslin had devoted his entire academic career to modern American poetry, turning out a stream of critical essays and books, including a well-received biography of William Carlos Williams, when a chance visit to a Rothko exhibition in New York in 1979 planted the seeds of wonder that changed his life.
        The sight of Rothko's powerful abstract paintings made an immediate psychic connection on Mr. Breslin, who was in something of a gloom following the end of  his first marriage. The paintings, he said in a 1994 essay, "create an empathetic space in which to confront emptiness and loss; they create environments for mourning."
        Partly because he was at work on a book, "From Modern to Contemporary: American Poetry, 1945-1965," published in 1984 by University of Chicago Press, Mr. Breslin did not immediately shift his academic attention from poetry to painting.
        But when he did, he threw himself into his new career. Over eight years, Mr.  Breslin, who had no previous background in art, steeped himself in art history,  spent endless hours absorbed in Rothko's work and immersed himself in the details of the artist's often tumultuous life, going so far as to make a difficult trip to Latvia to find the house where Rothko had lived as a child.
        The 700-page result, "Mark Rothko: A Biography," which was published by the University of Chicago Press in 1993, was an immediate sensation.
        Although some reviewers had their quibbles, in his review in The New York Times Sunday Book Review, Hilton Kramer, sounded the dominant critical theme when he called the book "the best life of an American painter that has yet been  written."
        For all the academic distance he traveled, Mr. Breslin was not exactly working in an alien field. Like many of the poets he followed, Rothko helped define the aesthetic that flourished in New York in the 1950's, for example, and as an expert in modern American poetry, Mr. Breslin had emphasized the connections between poets' lives and their work.
        By the time he began work on the Rothko book, in 1984, Mr. Breslin had also become intrigued with certain parallels between Rothko's life and his own.
        Like Rothko, for example, who was married twice, the second time to a much younger woman, Mr. Breslin had married a younger woman and was beginning a second family.
        It was perhaps not a coincidence that his wife, Ramsay, a former Berkeley English student who married him in 1981, had switched from English to art and begun turning out abstract expressionistic paintings.
        "I was down in the basement painting every day," Mrs. Breslin said yesterday, acknowledging that she had served as a guide when her husband began his art research but insisting that he had quickly developed his own expertise.
        Although Mr. Breslin, who joined the Berkeley faculty in 1964, had long been  a respected figure in the English department, the success of his Rothko biography made him a real star, particularly to his younger colleagues.
        One of them, Richard Breitwieser, said yesterday that by abandoning the safe  formula of his earlier success and "reinventing himself," Mr. Breslin left a beacon for other scholars.
        For Mr. Breslin, reinventing himself proved something of a habit. Having been inspired in part by his wife's work to turn his attention from poetry to painting, he had recently fallen under a new feminine influence, this time turning his attention from painting to music.
        Although his new passion was yet another reflection of his continuing interest in New York modernism, Mrs. Breslin suggested that her husband had been inspired in part by their 9-year-old daughter, Nora's, violin lessons.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Breslin, who had begun immersing himself in the 1950's New York jazz scene and even learned to play the saxophone, was working on a biography of John Coltrane.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, Mr. Breslin is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Jennifer of Kelseyville, Calif., and Susannah of Oakland.
      