
        Col. F. Don Miller, whose leadership in 1980 twice helped save the United States Olympic Committee from extinction, died on Wednesday night in Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. He was 75.
        He had been given a diagnosis of lung cancer in March 1994, a son-in-law, Michael Wagner, said.
        For 16 years, Colonel Miller was a leader of the U.S.O.C., the umbrella organization for American amateur sports. He was fund-raising director and assistant executive director from 1969 to 1973 and executive director from 1973  to 1985.
        In January 1980, the Carter Administration severely pressured the committee to boycott the Summer Olympics in Moscow because of Soviet aggression in Afghanistan. After a badly torn U.S.O.C. had finally capitulated, its income from corporate and public contributions dried up, and most of its staff seemed about to be dismissed or leave for other jobs. A determined Colonel Miller kept  the staff together and found money to keep the organization alive.
        The Moscow boycott endangered the entire Olympic movement, and later that year the Los Angeles City Council balked at making financial guarantees for the  1984 Olympics there and was about to give back the Games. Had that happened, Colonel Miller and Robert J. Kane, the president of the committee, feared that the U.S.O.C. would have collapsed.
        Colonel Miller and Kane persuaded the United States Olympic Committee and the International Olympic Committee to allow the United States group, rather than the city, to be the guarantor, a revolutionary move. In return, the U.S.O.C. would receive 40 percent of any surplus, with the money to be used to help athletes train.
        Most people laughed at talk of a surplus. But the Los Angeles Olympics produced a surplus of $215 million. The U.S.O.C.'s 40 percent went to the newly  formed United States Olympic Foundation, and Colonel Miller retired as executive director of the committee and became the first and only president of the foundation.
        The foundation raised money from other sources, too. It has turned over $7.5  million annually for athletes' training and $24 million to expand the U.S.O.C. Training Center in Colorado Springs. The foundation has more than $400 million in assets.
        "His personal resolve saved the U.S.O.C.," a spokesman for the organization,  Mike Moran, said. "He is the reason we are here today and stable. Had he not toughed it out, we might have folded. We had no money."
        Until Colonel Miller's time, the United States Olympic Committee was little more than a travel agency concerned with assembling teams for Olympic and Pan American Games. It dealt in small numbers. For example, at the 1964 United States Olympic swimming trials at the Astoria Pool in Queens, William E. Simon and Ed Mosler, both millionaire businessmen and U.S.O.C. fund raisers, sold Olympic pins for $1 each. They sold 24 to 36 a day.
        When Colonel Miller joined the staff, the budget was $4 million over four years. When he retired, the quadrennial budget had reached $88 million. Now it exceeds $400 million.
        "He took us out of the dollar contributing days," the historian of the committee, Bob Paul, said. "He was the biggest moving force in the United States Olympic Committee since Avery Brundage."
        Colonel Miller helped persuade Mr. Simon, a financier and former Treasury Secretary, to become president of the committee.
        "He was a visionary and he also was a doer," Mr. Simon said. "You don't get that combination very often. His integrity was legend. He loved the Olympics like he loved his family. He understood sports."
        Francis Donald Miller was born on April 9, 1920, in Racine, Wis. He was a tall, dignified man with cherubic cheeks and smile, given to plain talk and chain smoking.
        At the University of Wisconsin, he won the 1943 national collegiate boxing title at 155 pounds. He coached the United States boxing teams in the 1951 Pan American Games and 1956 Olympic Games. He served 26 years in the Army, and during European combat in World War II, he won the Silver Star and two Purple Hearts. Later in the Army, he directed all sports programs and represented the Army to the U.S.O.C.
        In 1984 at the Los Angeles Games, the president of the International Olympic  Committee, Juan Antonio Samaranch, presented Colonel Miller with the Olympic Order.
        He met his wife, the former Katherine Juliano, when she was singing with the  Glenn Miller Orchestra in a U.S.O. troupe in Europe.
        Surviving are his wife; two daughters, Pam Wagner of San Antonio and Donna Blume of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Nancy Moes of Racine; a brother, Myron, of Tucson, and five grandchildren.
      