
        Sylvester Garrett, a law professor and pioneer labor mediator who helped shape the landscape of industrial relations in the United States in the post- World War II era as the chief arbitrator between the United Steelworkers Union and the nation's steel producers for 28 years, died Thursday in Pittsburgh after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Garrett's long career touched upon many of the great events of 20th century labor history, from the New Deal labor policies of the Great Depression, when he served as a member of the Roosevelt Administration, to the bitter mid-1980's strike between USX Corporation and the United Steelworkers union, which he left retirement to help settle at age 75.
        And while his reputation was made on the basis of his impartiality -- most arbitrators in the steel industry had lasted only a year or two before he began  his tenure there in 1951 -- his work also moved across a broad range of issues.  The fundamental premise was always his steadfast belief that there were middle ground solutions to be found between entrenched positions.
        During World War II, when labor strife had a dramatic impact on national security, he was named by President Roosevelt to chair the Regional War Labor Board, which was charged with keeping labor peace in the eastern United States.  In 1966, he became a hero to subway riders in New York City, when he helped mediate the 12-day strike by the Transport Workers Union that brought the city to a halt on the day of John V. Lindsay's inauguration as Mayor.
        A graduate of University of Pennsylvania law school, Mr. Garrett taught labor law through most of his career at Stanford University, the University of Pittsburgh and Indiana University of Pennsylvania. But it was his tenure in the  steel industry, from 1951 until 1979, that marked the height of his influence on labor policy.
        The International President of the United Steelworkers of America, George Becker, said in a statement that Mr. Garrett's death would be immediately felt.  The statement that Mr. Garrett had already been named the arbitrator for talks this year about reopening certain aspects of the current steel industry contract.
        Mr. Garrett was married to Molly Yard, the former president of the National Organization of Women. They met at Swarthmore College, where they both graduated in the class of 1933.
        He was also an avid outdoorsman until near the end of his life, with a special affinity for the rocky country of northern New England. He said that he  had climbed most of the peaks of the Green Mountains of Vermont and the White Mountains in New Hampshire.
        Mr. Garrett's family said that his ashes, after cremation, are to be scattered across the mountain peaks he most loved.
        He is survived by his wife and by two sons, James of Pittsburgh, and John of  Rochester, N.Y., by two brothers, William of West Chester, Penn., and Dan of Ambler, Penn., and by five grandchildren. His family said that the funeral services will be private, but that memorial service would be held some time this spring, probably at the Swarthmore campus.
      