
        Dan Duva, who was raised in boxing's buccaneering world, left it to become a  lawyer and then returned as one of its major promoters, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 44.
        Duva had undergone surgery for brain cancer in 1994, but the illness recurred last November.
        Duva, whose father, Lou, is a trainer who has been part of the sport's fabric for 60 years, enjoyed the irreverence, illogic and just plain nuttiness associated with boxing. He often described himself as "incorrigibly optimistic," observing, "I'm a Jets fan, too."
        His company, Main Events, successfully competed with other major promoters in the sport like Don King and Bob Arum. Typically, negotiations often included screaming and posturing and broken promises.
        Among the 12 heavyweight title fights Duva promoted was the 1994 meeting of Evander Holyfield and Michael Moorer. To wring some added excitement out of it,  Duva arranged for Moorer, the challenger, to smash the podium at one of the pre-fight rituals. Television networks, not knowing it was a set-up, showed the  angry Moorer that night, which helped to hype the fight.
        Duva, a graduate of Rutgers and the Seton Hall School of Law, promoted more than 100 world title bouts. His first mega-fight was the 1981 meeting in Las Vegas, Nev., between Sugar Ray Leonard and Thomas Hearns.
        By then, Duva had left the practice of law to return to the sport he had been raised in by his father, who is 73 years old and still training such champions as Pernell Whitaker, who holds a welterweight title.
        In 1984, Dan Duva saw a new breed of fighter emerging, from the Olympics, and that year he signed Holyfield, Whitaker, Mark Breland, Tyrell Biggs and Meldrick Taylor, all of whom had won Olympic medals. All but Biggs went on to win professional championships.
        "Dan was a man who gave me an opportunity, and I'll never forget him for that," Holyfield, who has earned more than $110 million in the ring, said yesterday.
        Besides his father, Duva is survived by his wife, Kathryn; two daughters, Lisa and Nicole; a son, Bryan; a brother, Dino, and three sisters, Donna Brooks, Denise MacPhail and Deanne Boorman.
      