
        Howard C. Petersen, a former president and chairman of the Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia who had earlier held posts in the Truman and Kennedy Administrations, died on Thursday at his home in Radnor, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 85.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, and he had been in declining health, said his wife, the former Elizabeth Watts.
        Mr. Petersen was the chief executive of Fidelity Bank from 1966 to 1975. He  again ran the bank for a brief period in 1978.
        At that time, Fidelity, which had $2.6 billion in deposits in 1977, was one of the larger regional banks.
        Mr. Petersen was also Fidelity's president from 1950 to 1966 and its chairman from 1966 to 1978. The bank is now part of First Fidelity Bank and is soon to be merged into First Union National Bank.
        He originally joined Fidelity as executive vice president in 1947, when it was known as the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company.
        Although Mr. Petersen was a Republican, he was special assistant to President John F. Kennedy for international trade policy in 1961 and 1962 and Assistant Secretary of War from 1945 to 1947 under President Harry S. Truman. He was also  prominent early in the campaign for the nomination of Dwight D. Eisenhower as the Republican Presidential candidate in 1952.
        When President Kennedy named Mr. Petersen, an expert in international economics, in 1961 as a special assistant, the White House announcement of his appointment said his job was "to advise and assist in the development of a new international trade program."
        Mr. Petersen acquired his expertise in international economics as Assistant Secretary of War under Mr. Truman after World War II. In that post, Mr. Petersen's tasks included working on the economics of occupied Germany and of other war-ravaged nations.
        At the time that he stepped down as Assistant Secretary, he was supervising the United States' military government activities in Germany, Japan, Korea, Austria and Italy and was the War Department's chief representative at the State Department on all matters involving political policy.
        As Assistant Secretary of War, Mr. Petersen was sometimes outspoken. In 1947, he warned at a Washington news conference that the United States must give priority to food shipments to the American-occupied zone of western Germany. Otherwise, he declared, Communism might gain a foothold in the zone.
        Earlier that year, he announced War Department action to alleviate the threat of famine and of resulting food riots in Italy: the diverting in midocean of six Germany-bound, wheat-laden ships to Italian ports.
        Earlier in the 1940's, he held lesser War Department posts, helped to write the Selective Service Act and wrote implementing rules and regulations after it  became law.
        He was also a director of the Panama Canal Corporation under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy.
        Mr. Petersen was born in East Chicago, Ind., graduated from high school there and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1930 from DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., and a law degree in 1933 from the University of Michigan. From 1933 to 1941, he was an associate in the New York law firm that was then called Cravath, deGersdorff, Swaine & Wood.
        Over the years, he was variously a trustee of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Committee for Economic Development and chairman of the boards of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., the University of Pennsylvania Museum and the Marshall Foundation.
        In addition to his wife of 59 years, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth  Spiro Clark of Washington; two grandsons; and a sister, Ruth Sfura of Munster, Ill.
      