
        Dr. Ernst Trier Morch, an inveterate Danish-born tinkerer who applied his wide-ranging ingenuity to everything from advancing anesthesiology with a jerry-built respirator to rescuing Danish Jews with cocaine and rabbit blood, died on Saturday at the Manhattan home of his daughter Sys.
        A longtime chief of anesthesiology at Cook County Hospital in Chicago, he was 87 and until his retirement in 1989 had spent the last decade of his multifaceted career on Amelia Island in Florida as deputy sheriff and chief anesthesiologist at the local hospital.
        Dr. Morch, a buoyant man who defined problems as things to which there were  solutions, spent his life solving them, whether it was his boyhood desire for a  working car, which led him to fashion one of plywood, bicycle wheels and a small gasoline engine, or his daughter's need for some minor repairs to her outdoor shower on Fire Island, which brought a finished project, she said, admitting the afternoon sun and including a dressing room.
        If the problem was saving lives, so much the better. As a young anesthesiologist at a time when the practice in Denmark was relegated to nurses  or interns, Dr. Morch, who had learned the science from an equipment salesman, increased his patient's dismal survival rates so much that he was soon in wide demand.
        And when surgeons beginning to perform open-chest surgery were hampered by their patients' heaving diaphragms, Dr. Morch did not bother to bemoan the fact  that under the German occupation even the simplest tools and equipment were almost impossible to come by.
        He simply scrounged a dirty length of sewer pipe, rigged it to a cast-off piston and a motor and invented what became known as the Morch Piston Respirator, a forerunner of respirators in use today to breathe for patients under anesthesia.
        He showed similar ingenuity as a member of the Danish resistance, which has been credited with saving all but 500 of the country's 7,000 Jews. Among other things, according to his own account, at a time when the Gestapo was using bloodhounds to sniff out Jews hidden under the false bottoms of fishing boats taking them to safety in Sweden, he and a friend who was a pharmacist experimented on a cocker spaniel until they perfected a mixture of dried rabbit's blood and cocaine that disabled the dogs' ability to smell.
        When, toward the end of the war, the Count Folke Bernadotte of Sweden wheedled unofficial permission from the Germans to retrieve 7,000 Scandinavian prisoners from a concentration camp near Hamburg, Dr. Morch, who was awarded medals from the Kings of Denmark, Sweden and Norway for his role, was part of the medical team that accompanied the starved, diseased prisoners on a bus convoy out of Germany.
        Dr. Morch, who traced his interest in medicine to a traumatic childhood tonsillectomy without anesthesia, trained as a geneticist, producing research tracing dwarfism to a single mutant gene and establishing that the condition randomly occurred in one of every 10,000 births. The finding was later used as a base line by scientists studying the genetic effects of the atomic bombing of Japan.
        After switching to anesthesia, Dr. Morch found the Danish medical establishment so resistant to recognizing it as a specialty that he came to the  United States in 1949, working first in Washington and then in Chicago, where he taught at half a dozen hospitals.
        Forced to retire at 70, he followed a sweetheart to Florida in 1979 and took  a job at the 54-bed Nassau General Hospital, where he found the nursing staff so shaken by the experience of dealing with rowdy criminal suspects brought in by the sheriff that he volunteered to treat them at the jail, a part-time endeavor  that led to his appointment as deputy sheriff complete with gun and badge.
        In addition to his daughter, Dr. Morch is survived by another daughter, Ibi Cieslar of Tulsa, Okla., two sons, Claus of Madison, Conn., and Peter of Fredericia, Denmark; a sister, Dea, of Copenhagen, and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 2, 1996, Friday
        An obituary on Jan. 18 about Dr. Ernst T. Morch, an anesthesiologist who worked with the Danish resistance in World War II, misstated the date of his death. It was Dec. 13, not Jan. 13.
      