
        Christopher F. Bannister, a master harpsichord maker who left his mark on a rarefied field by adapting 18th-century instruments to 20th-century technology,  died on Wednesday at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 58.
        His wife, Karen, said that he died a week after he had a heart attack and fell on the attic stairs at their home in Hopewell, N.J., suffering a head injury from which he never recovered.
        Until a decline in demand led him to close his shop in Hopewell about 10 years ago, Mr. Bannister had gained a reputation as one of the nation's premiere makers of harpsichords.
        Although most of the dozen or so harpsichords he turned out each year were commissioned for private use, his instruments were so highly regarded that Bannisters are still used by music departments at Princeton University and elsewhere and by symphonies like the Philadelphia Orchestra.
        A native of Troy, N.Y., Mr. Bannister, who studied music at the Oberlin College Conservatory while spending summers as an apprentice with the Dowd & Hubbard harpsichord company in Boston, opened his shop in 1959 and participated  in the revival of interest in harpsichords.
        Unlike the piano, a percussion instrument that produces sound when its strings are struck by hammers, harpsichords are true stringed instruments whose  strings are actually plucked, producing the characteristic tones that helped inspire the music of Bach, Handel and other classical composers who never knew pianos.
        Mr. Bannister studied the harpsichord not because he wanted to perform but because he felt it was essential that a harpsichord maker have an intimate understanding of every aspect of the instrument.
        "He always wanted to make harpsichords," said his wife, who recalled she had  been introduced to Mr. Bannister by a mutual friend who sensed they would like each other. Mr. Bannister took great pains with his work and soon after their marriage his wife proved herself a game companion.
        "We hunted crows on our honeymoon," she said, noting that finely-sharpened crow-quills were used to make the plectra, or pluckers, which give the harpsichord its distinct sound.
        As one of perhaps a dozen harpsichord makers in the United States, Mr. Bannister set himself apart with his determination to improve the design of harpsichords by correcting some of the flaws in 18th-century models.
        In a field where most of his rivals strove to make exact copies of surviving  baroque models, Mr. Bannister, whose motto was "copying is not art," set what he regarded as a higher artistic goal: turning out instruments whose sounds were as pure and as authentic as any but whose modern designs made them at once easier to play and more stable than the notoriously finicky baroque originals and their modern replicas, which tend to go out of tune with the slighest provocation of temperature or humidity.
        For example, instead of using authentic -- but cumbersome and highly limiting -- hand-stops, Mr. Bannister designed and installed footpedals. And, as his former apprentice, Robert Wilson, who has his own shop in Lambertville, N.J., noted yesterday, he also developed series of techniques to make his harpsichords easier to tune and keep in tune, among them a system of uniform string elongation, which assured that when a Bannister finally went out of tune it remained in balance.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daugther, Katherine Practon of Chapel Hill, N.C.; a son, Jonathon, of Seattle, and a grandchild.
      