
        Duane Hanson, an artist whose super-realist sculptures of blond cheerleaders, beer-bellied tourists and other ordinary Americans earned him vast popular acclaim, but also disdain in some art circles, died on Saturday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 70.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, according to The Miami Herald.
        Mr. Hanson rose to international fame in the early 70's during the rise of Photo Realist painting. Using casts of live models, he produced life-size figures of Everymen and women, which he dressed in real clothes and sometimes supplemented with real chairs, tables and other props. They tricked people all the time. A museum guard in Florida once called firefighters for help when one of Mr. Hanson's sculptures of a seated woman, which he mistook for an actual person, didn't respond to his attempts to get her attention.
        Mr. Hanson discovered the process of casting with polyester resin and Fiberglas while he was in Germany in the 1950's. But he began to experiment with it only in the mid-60's. He was inspired by Pop Art, especially by the ghostly plaster figures of George Segal. Other artists were also exploring the casting process around that time, including Jasper Johns, Yves Klein and John De Andrea. But Mr. Hanson took it to its most elaborate and realistic extremes.
        Born in Alexandria, Minn., in 1925, the son of a dairy farmer, he graduated from the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., in 1951. He taught in Germany and then moved to Atlanta in 1960. In 1965 he settled in Miami and began to work first on sculptures of figures in confrontational and violent situations: motorcycle accident victims, soldiers in battle, policemen and rioters. Having been interested in realism during the years when Abstract Expressionism was dominant, Mr. Hanson had labored in obscurity until then. But  with the rise of Pop and a general shift in the artistic climate, these figures  got him his first attention.
        He exhibited in a group show at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1969, then began to show regularly for the next several years at the O.K. Harris gallery in Manhattan. His inclusion in Documenta 5, in Kassel, West Germany, in  1972, brought him to international prominence.
        Mr. Hanson liked to say he had no concern for fancy art historical theories and precedents. But he said he admired 19th-century American trompe l'oeil painters like John Frederick Peto, and his sculptures of ordinary, often down-and-out and even horrific characters have an obvious affinity with Edward Hopper's pictures. "Realism," Mr. Hanson once said, "is best suited to convey the frightening idiosyncrasies of our time." Museumgoers, who didn't seem to mind the satirical, sometimes cruel caricatures he created, regarded his art with the fondness they had for populists like Norman Rockwell.
        Mr. Hanson lived in Greenwich Village from 1969 to 1973, then moved back to south Florida, where he spent the rest of his life. New York City, he said, is "more of a synthetic world; this is the real world."
        He is survived by his wife, Wesla, and five children.
      