
        Dr. Elizabeth Monroe Boggs, a co-founder and past president of the Association for Retarded Citizens, died on Saturday at Cooper Medical Center in  Camden, N.J. She was 82 and a resident of Hampton, N.J.
        She died of injuries sustained on Jan. 21 when she lost control of her car on an icy road near her home, said Dr. Deborah Spitalnik, a close friend and colleague.
        Dr. Boggs, who became known around the country as the First Lady of the A.R.C., was active as a volunteer and advocate for four decades.  She served as  president of the organization in 1958, when it was known as the National Association for Retarded Children.
        Since it was founded in 1950, the association, which now has its headquarters in Arlington, Tex., has grown to about 140,000 members, 46 state chapters and a  staff of 45. The membership consists of parents, professional workers and advocates for the mentally retarded, with the mission of promoting services, research, public understanding and legislation.
        Dr. Boggs was the principal architect of Federal legislation that expanded the definition of disabilities to include people with physical handicaps. Previously, certain Federal programs served only people who were mentally retarded. She also helped develop legislation in Trenton that led to turning the New Jersey Division of Mental Retardation into the Division of Developmental Disabilities, again benefiting a broader population.
        President John F. Kennedy named her to a Federal panel that studied the problems of mental retardation and advised on what action to take. The recommendations led to legisLation.
        Dr. Boggs, who described herself as a "nonprofessional mover and shaker," was born in Cleveland and graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1935.
        Her chosen field was theoretical chemistry. She went to England and received  a Ph.D. from Cambridge University. She began her career in World War II as a researcher at what is now Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
        She married Dr. Fitzhugh Boggs, a fellow scientist, in 1941 and gave birth to their son, David, in 1945. It soon became apparent that David had sustained brain damage during a severe illness he suffered in infancy.
        She took courses in special education and joined with other parents to organize on the county and then the state level. David's mental retardation left him with only limited use of his arms and legs, but Dr. Boggs and her husband tried to care for him at home. When they had to place him in a residential center in 1952, she made a hard choice between the laboratory coat and the mantle of public advocate.
        Dr. Boggs is survived by David, a resident of the Hunterdon Developmental Center in Clinton, N.J. Fitzhugh Boggs died in 1971.
      