
        A.C. Sedgwick, a former correspondent for The New York Times, who covered the British Eighth Army's desert campaign in World War II and wrote about its pivotal triumph over the Germans at the Battle of El Alamein, died on Friday in  Athens. He was 94.
        After retiring in 1961, Mr. Sedgwick spent much of his time in Athens, where  he was stationed by The Times following World War II to cover events in Greece and Turkey. In 1934, he had been special assistant to the United States minister to Greece, Lincoln MacVeagh.
        Alexander Cameron Sedgwick was born in Stockbridge, Mass. After graduating from Harvard in 1924 with a degree in English literature, he spent a year with The New York World before joining The Times in 1925 to cover local news.
        He left The Times after three years, became a sherry salesman in Europe and wrote a novel, "Wind Without Rain." The social satire was published by Charles Scribner's Sons in 1930.
        After a brief stay with The Associated Press, Mr. Sedgwick rejoined The Times in 1937 as its Athens correspondent. With Greece facing defeat by the Germans early in the war, he went to the Middle East, where he began to cover British military operations.
        His affection for the troops he accompanied was immediate and deep. After hearing them grouse about their lot, he wrote: "About one thing he is clear -- that he has no superiors, nor even equals, on the field of battle. . . . The British soldier carries the story of Waterloo among his identity papers."
        Writing of El Alamein, the Egyptian village where Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's Afrika Korps was routed in the fall of 1942, Mr. Sedgwick described the British tanks moving into battle: "The mass of engines laboring in low gear can  be heard a great distance away. One imagines that miles of heavy chains are being drawn over sheets of corrugated iron. . . . The guns of the tanks make a metallic ring of flashes that seems to turn the dust cloud into a rosy fire."
        Shortly after the battle, Mr. Sedgwick was wounded slightly by German mortar  fire -- something his editors at The Times were unaware of, since he did not mention it in his dispatches.
        In 1945, he was made a member of the Order of the British Empire. The same year his second novel, "Tell Sparta," was published.
        Surviving are his wife of 61 years, Roxane; a nephew, Alexander Sedgwick of Charlottesville, Va., and a niece, Sarah Ginocchio of Stockbridge.
      