
        Anton Myrer, the best-selling author of "Once an Eagle," "The Last Convertible" and other novels, died on Friday at his home in Saugerties, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause was leukemia, said Julie Fallowfield, a friend.
        While serving in the Marine Corps during World War II, Mr. Myrer was wounded in the invasion of Guam. He drew upon his military experiences in novels that included "The Big War" and "Once an Eagle." "The Big War" was made into a film,  under the title "In Love and War" (1958), starring Robert Wagner and Bradford Dillman.
        When "Once an Eagle" was published in 1968, Martin Levin wrote in The New York Times: "If this is not the Great American Novel . . . at least it's a mighty big American novel. It represents some 50 years of war and peace, and a surprisingly large chunk of it throbs and pulsates like the real thing." Ten years later, "Once an Eagle" became a television mini-series starring Glenn Ford.
        Looking back on his own wartime service, Mr. Myrer said: "World War II was the one event which had the greatest impact on my life. I enlisted imbued with a rather flamboyant concept of this country's destiny as the leader of a free world and the necessity of the use of armed force. I emerged a corporal three years later in a state of great turmoil, at the core of which was an angry awareness of war as the most vicious and fraudulent self-deception man had ever devised."
        In "The Last Convertible," in 1978, he looked back nostalgically at his generation, following the interwoven lives of five Harvard classmates from 1938  to the late 1970's. The central symbol of the book was a 1938 Packard Super 8 convertible, representing "a golden dream of youth, careless freedom, of personal style." Reviewing the book in The Times Book Review, Nora Johnson said  it was "a first-rate story, well told and constantly interesting." "The Last Convertible" became a television mini-series, starring Bruce Boxleitner and Deborah Raffin.
        Mr. Myrer was born in Worcester, Mass. His studies at Harvard University were interrupted when he enlisted in the Marines. After the war, he returned to Harvard and graduated magna cum laude. His first novel, "Evil Under the Sun," published in 1951, was about a war veteran convalescing at a Cape Cod artists' colony. His other novels were "The Violent Shore," "The Intruder," "The Tiger Waits" and "A Green Desire."
        He is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Schartle.
      