
        Leonor Fini, an Argentine-born artist and theater designer who was as well known for her eccentric lifestyle as she was for her erotic and fantastic paintings, died on Jan. 18 in a Paris hospital. She was 87.
        Miss Fini, whose father was Argentine and mother was Italian, was born in Buenos Aires on Aug. 30, 1908. While she was still a child, the family moved to  Milan, where at 17 she had her first exhibition as a painter. In 1932 she settled in Paris, where she was drawn into the Surrealist movement, quickly joining a circle of artists that included Andre Breton, Paul Eluard, Max Ernst and Giorgio de Chirico.
        She always insisted on going her own way as an artist. "I could never support the dogmatic and inquisitional way that the group approached its work,"  she once said of the Surrealists. Her work was nonetheless represented at the show "Fantastic Art: Dada Surrealism" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1936.
        Later she translated her idea of the fantastic into the female form, creating a whole population of young women in strange and exotic attires, sometimes with  their heads shaven, sometimes resembling fairies or witches, often exuding a kind of Joan of Arc mystique. The erotic memoir "The Story of O" was one of many books she illustrated.
        Some of her most important work, though, was done for the theater, and included both sets and costumes. She was the designer for George Balanchine's ballet "The Crystal Palace" at the Paris Opera in 1945 and she worked at the Comedie Francaise, for Jean-Louis Barrault's theater company, and at La Scala opera house in Milan. She did the sets for plays by Jean Genet and Jean Anouilh  in the 1960's.
        A very public figure with her own loyal circle of admirers, Miss Fini always  insured that she stood out in a crowd. In recent years she was frequently seen at art-show openings wearing heavy makeup, unusual clothes, wide-brim hats and ample jewelry. She never married, and filled her home with cats that she often used as models for her illustrations.
      