
        Egidio Ortona, a veteran diplomat who nurtured the postwar revival of Italy's close relationship with the United States and served as the Italian Ambassador to Washington, died here on Wednesday. He was 85.
        Mr. Ortona was born in Casale Monferrato in the Piedmont region of northern Italy. After obtaining a degree in law from the University of Turin in 1931, he  entered the diplomatic service, serving as consul in Egypt and South Africa.
        Mr. Ortona rose quickly through the ranks, which were still largely dominated by the Piedmontese, who led Italy's 19th-century drive for national unification.
        Mr. Ortona observed the collapse of Italy's relations with the Western Allies and Italy's entry into the war on the side of Nazi Germany from his middle-level diplomatic post in London in the late 1930's, and later served in the office of  Giuseppe Bastianini, the wartime governor of occupied Dalmatia, in Yugoslavia.
        Returning to Rome with Mr. Bastianini, Mr. Ortona witnessed the overthrow of  Mussolini's Fascist dictatorship in 1943 and the devastation of his country by the war. His experiences forged in him a belief in the need for close Italian links to the United States.
        In late 1944, Mr. Ortona was selected as a member of a delegation of bankers  and diplomats who went to Washington to obtain financial assistance from the United States for the reconstruction of Italy. The delegation's contacts laid the foundation for the close ties that later developed between Rome and Washington.
        In 1947 Mr. Ortona was posted to the Italian Embassy in Washington when the Prime Minister, Alcide De Gasperi, made a visit to the United States that secured Italy's inclusion in the Marshall Plan and its membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which was established in 1949.
        In 1959 Mr. Ortona became Italy's delegate to the United Nations. Returning to Rome in 1961, he held several senior positions at the Foreign Ministry before returning to Washington in 1967 as Ambassador, a post in which he served until his retirement in 1975.
        "He always remained faithful to the idea of the alliance with America," said  Sergio Romano, a foreign policy expert and longtime friend.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Ortona published a three-volume memoir, "Years of America," and recollections of the war years, "The Diplomacy of War."
        He is survived by a daughter, Donatella Ferrario Ortona, and two sons, Danda  and Ludovico.
      