
        Wyllis Bandler, a mathematician who worked in the rarefied sphere of abstract algebra and sought to give it practical application, died on Dec. 22 at Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center in Florida. He was 79 and lived in  Tallahassee.
        The cause was emphysema, said a friend and associate, Vasco Mancini.
        At his death Dr. Bandler was professor of computer science at Florida State  University and about to retire.
        Dr. Bandler's early research dealt with abstractions and purely theoretical constructs. But over the years he became known for his work in applying algebraic structures to real-life situations.
        Together with Mr. Mancini, an architect, he produced several scholarly papers exploring how people interpret their urban surroundings. Another subject he investigated was how people feel about their medical needs. His research found growing use in such fields as medical diagnosis, information retrieval, environmental studies and industrial engineering.
        In 1994, the International Institute for Advanced Studies in Systems Research and Cybernetics gave Dr. Bandler a special lifetime achievement award in recognition of his decadeslong efforts to use mathematics, science and technology to improve the quality of human life.
        He was born in White Plains and graduated from Columbia University, where he  also earned a master's degree in economics. He also earned a master's in meteorology at New York University and put that knowledge to work with an Army Air Forces weather unit in China in World War II, rising to the rank of captain.
        After the war, he lived in Florence and received a doctorate in mathematics at the University of Zurich. He then taught mathematics in England at the University of Essex and established its Cognitive Studies Center.
        He joined the department of computer science in Tallahassee in 1983 and founded the Institute for Cognitive Sciences. An interdisciplinary unit, it seeks to meld contributions from philosophers, mathematicians and logicians.
        He left no immediate survivors.
      