
        Daniel S. Weiss, a former New York City Criminal Court judge and a City Councilman who bucked the powerful Tammany Hall political machine, died yesterday. He was 86.
        His daughter, Fern Todman of Manhattan, said Mr. Weiss died of heart failure  in a home for the chronically ill near Lafayette, La., where he lived.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, Mr. Weiss rebuffed Tammany Hall, the powerful New  York County Democratic organization, running without its backing for City Council and winning election in 1953 and 1957.
        Ms. Todman said that during those elections, Tammany Hall supporters would pull down her father's campaign signs, especially the ones posted near the Democratic headquarters.
        "My grandfather sat on the steps across from the Democratic club with a shotgun to make sure that they didn't keep pulling my father's signs down," Ms.  Todman said.
        "Tammany Hall was very powerful in those days," she said. "He felt it was such an outrage that they weren't supporting him. He believed that it was an outrage and he could win."
        As a judge from 1965 to 1979, Mr. Weiss was widely regarded as efficient and  highly skilled, someone repeatedly assigned to clear backlogged caseloads in the criminal courts in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.
        On the bench, Mr. Weiss was said to radiate authority with his booming, sometimes ominous voice, and was known to conduct trials quickly, asking incisive questions.
        Born on the Lower East Side, Mr. Weiss spent 47 years of his life in the same Second Avenue apartment. In his early career as a lawyer, he represented many of the families in the neighborhood without charge, his daughter said.
        Mr. Weiss graduated from Brooklyn Law School. In 1934, he was supervising attorney for the Home Owners Loan Corporation, and in 1936 he was appointed investigator in the accident fraud section of the New York County District Attorney's office. Later, he went into private criminal practice.
        In 1957, while a City Councilman, Mr. Weiss was assailed by the pastor of the Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church for his role as defense attorney for some people accused of selling pornographic material. Mr. Weiss's response was unflinching.
        "I have practiced law for some 20 years," Mr. Weiss said at the time.  "In that time I have represented defendants charged with every crime in the book, including murder. The law is my business, and defendants are entitled to counsel."
        Mr. Weiss first became a City Councilman from Lower Manhattan in 1948 and served a 13-month term. He then returned to private practice, but ran successfully for City Council in 1953.
        Among the measures he introduced was a statute known as the Weiss Law, intended to cut down on car theft by making it illegal for motorists to leave their parked cars without turning the engine off and removing the ignition key.
        In August 1961, Mr. Weiss was "purged" by Tammany Hall, denied the Democratic nomination for re-election to his council seat because he had again defied the club's powerful leader, Carmine G. DeSapio, and instead supported Mayor Robert F. Wagner's candidate for Manhattan borough president.
        In 1965, Mayor Wagner rewarded his ally by appointing Mr. Weiss a judge on the Criminal Court. He remained a judge until 1979, after more than a year as a  State Supreme Court justice, stepping down because he had reached the mandatory retirement age of 70, Ms. Todman said.
        After retiring, he divided his time between Florida and Louisiana, where his  wife's family was from.
        Mr. Weiss's first wife, Mae, died in 1964. He is survived by his second wife, Miriam; two daughters, Ms. Todman and Joyce Stevens of Los Angeles, and two granddaughters. The funeral will be held tomorrow in a private ceremony.
      