
        Albert Homer Swanke, a prominent architect known for his restoration of Government monuments from the Capitol to the Statue of Liberty, died on Monday at Mercy Baptist Hospital in New Orleans. Mr. Swanke, who was an architect and planner at a number of New York firms, made his home first in Savannah, Ga., and then in New Orleans after retiring in 1982 as senior partner in Swanke Hayden Connell Architects in Manhattan. He was 86.
        In one of his last efforts before retirement, Mr. Swanke (pronounced swanky)  served as senior consultant to the Franco-American Committee for the Restoration of the Statue of Liberty. The committee was among the organizations that began raising money in 1982 for a two-year restoration of the monument. With Swanke Hayden Connell as the architects, the work included replacement of the statue's  torch and installation of an elevator in time for the statue's centennial celebration on July 4, 1986.
        In work in Washington, Mr. Swanke was involved in the restoration and extension of the East Front of the Capitol, the restoration of the original Senate and Supreme Court chambers and the development of the James Madison Memorial Library.
        With Albert Easton Poor, Mr. Swanke planned the remodeling in 1955 of the famous American Express office at 11 Rue Scribe in Paris. The project involved installation of elevators, air-conditioning and an escalator in a building where construction was begun before the Franco-Prussian War and completed in 1874. American Express opened its office there in 1900.
        Mr. Swanke's work abroad included NATO air bases at Dreux and Evreux in France. At home, his skills were applied to the Trump Tower and the Seaport Plaza in Manhattan, some 250 banks, new court and governmental buildings, subway stations and the renovation of landmark structures for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company in Milwaukee and an addition to the Chicago Board of Trade Building.
        Mr. Swanke, who was born in Thomasville, Ga., graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta in 1930 and the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in 1931. Early on, he worked for prominent architects like Ernest Flagg and Aymar Embury 2d.
        Mr. Swanke is survived by his wife, Pratt Williams Swanke of New Orleans, and by Albert Homer Swanke Jr. of Princeton, N.J., his son by his marriage in 1935 to Margaret Ann Twaddell, who died in 1968. He is also survived by a stepson, Charles King Mallory 3d of Washington; a sister, Lillian Schwencke Cook of Marianna, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      