
        Dr. Usim Odim, a Nigeria-born psychiatrist who worked as a physician on the Biafran side to save civilian victims of the Nigerian civil war in the late 1960's, died on Dec. 25 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 72.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        The Nigerian civil war raged from May 1967, when the Ibo-dominated region of southeastern Nigeria declared independence as Biafra, until the rebels' surrender in January 1970. Estimates of civilian dead during the war range from  500,000 into the millions, many from starvation.
        During that time, Dr. Odim helped the Biafran cause and almost single-handedly managed a local hospital after most of the medical staff and foreign missionaries fled.
        After the secession was crushed, Dr. Odim returned to the United States, where he had previously studied and worked and trained in psychiatry at Norwich  State Hospital in Connecticut. He was later director of a drug treatment program at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and was director of psychiatry at Warren State Hospital.
        Dr. Odim also kept a private practice, from which he retired in 1994.
        Born in rural Nigeria, Dr. Odim was the son of a tribal chief. He attended a  Church of Scotland mission school and a Methodist college. He graduated from the Yaba School of Pharmacy in Lagos and went to work for the Nigerian Ministry  of Health.
        Although Nigeria was still a British colony, he chose to get advanced medical training in the United States rather than in Britain. He graduated from Western  Michigan University in 1952 and received his medical degree from the University  of Kansas in 1956.
        After training in pathology, he returned to Nigeria to join the staff of the  University of Ibadan Teaching Hospital.
        Dr. Odim is survived by his wife of 40 years, Emma Cheek Odim; two daughters, Ndiya Ajike of Dallas, and Nnena Odim of Boston; five sons, Odim U. Odim of Chicago, Dr. Jonah Odim of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Carlton Odim of Chicago, Dale Odim of Rochester, Minn., and Onuoha Odim of Brooklyn; a sister, Rebecca Agwu of Nsukka, Nigeria; and 13 grandchildren.
      