
        Seton Lloyd, a British archeologist who put his architectural training to use when he led spectacular digs in Iraq and Turkey, died on Jan. 7, London newspapers reported. He was 93 and lived in Faringdon, England.
        At his death he was a professor emeritus of western Asiatic archeology at the Institute of Archeology, University of London. But he accomplished his most notable excavation earlier as director of the British Institute of Archeology in Ankara.
        Years of painstaking search of earthen mounds in Anatolia in southwestern Asia Minor paid off in the mid-1950's when Mr. Lloyd reported the rediscovery of the long-forgotten Empire of Arzawa.
        The culturally advanced Arzawas flourished around 1440 B.C. and disappeared 200 years later without leaving a written record of their civilization. But Professor Lloyd's expedition showed that they were respectable architects and builders and makers of beautiful pottery.
        He unearthed a series of Bronze Age palaces, among them the Arzawas' torched  and shattered citadel with remains of a heating system of hot-air ducts running  beneath its large chambers. The 3,000-year-old ruin was comparable in size and age to the fabled Palace of Minos in Crete.
        The Empire of Arzawa, while it existed, blocked the expansive drive of the ancient Hittites before the Trojan War. But the Hittites eventually vanquished Arzawa and the cuneiform tablets of the victors noting their conquest provided the scant evidence of Arzawa's existence.
        In the mid-1940's Mr. Lloyd was a technical adviser to the Directorate General of Antiquities of Iraq when he and an Iraqi colleague, Fuad Safar, dug up a site north of Ur, the ancient city of Sumer. Their feat placed the dawning  of civilization in the region at between 5000 and 6000 B.C., or about 2,000 years earlier than previously thought.
        On that site at Hassuna in Mesopotamia people had settled and begun to cultivate land, herd cattle, build mud-brick houses and make pottery. A prize find was a well-preserved sickle that still cut corn just as it had 8,000 years  ago.
        Seton Howard Frederick Lloyd was born in Birmingham, England. An early interest in drawing led him to train at the Uppingham School of Architecture. He qualified for the profession in 1926 but soon started excavating with the Egypt  Exploration Society.
        In the 1920's and 30's he also dug in Iraq for the University of Chicago's Oriental Institute and the University of Liverpool. One of his earliest revelations left him, the trained architect, in awe of the skills of Assyrian hydraulic engineers. It was the rediscovery of the 20-mile Sennacherib's Aqueduct at Jerwan, Iraq, constructed around 700 B.C. from the headwaters of the River Gomel to Nineveh.
        He was the author of numerous books about ancient architecture and the region he explored for most of his career. He received many honors from the Governments of Britain, Turkey and Iraq.
        Mr. Lloyd's wife of 43 years, Margery Ulrica Fitzwilliams-Hyde, died in 1987. His survivors include their two sons, John and Peter, and a daughter, Clare Seton.
      