
        Francois Mitterrand, who revived France's Socialist Party into a modern political force and whose election as President ended decades of Gaullist rule,  died this morning in his official residence here of prostate cancer. He was 79.
        "It is a great figure who has left us, and I salute him with emotion and with respect," said President Jacques Chirac, a conservative Gaullist and longtime political adversary of Mr. Mitterrand, who succeeded him last May.
        Mr. Mitterrand will be buried after a private funeral Thursday morning in Jarnac, the southwestern French village where he was born. A public Mass will be celebrated for him at the same time at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Friends said Mr. Mitterrand did not want a state funeral, but Mr. Chirac declared Thursday a day of national mourning and ordered flags to be flown at half-staff.
        As President, Mr. Mitterrand embraced the cause of European unity as his intended legacy. He evidently sought in this crusade propitiation for the political sins of his youth. For most of his political career, Mr. Mitterrand kept hidden his service in the wartime collaborationist rule of Marshal Philippe Petain in Vichy, emphasizing instead his work with the Resistance, which he joined only at the end of 1943.
        It was only in the twilight of his life, after one of his most notorious former associates -- a Vichy police officer -- was accused of deporting thousands of French Jews to German camps, that Mr. Mitterrand allowed a biographer to disclose the details of his own time as a Vichy bureaucrat.
        He dedicated his 14-year presidency, the longest since the Fifth Republic was established in 1958, to building a more united Europe on the foundation of close Franco-German relations.
        Chancellor Helmut Kohl, his closest ally, led the first of many tributes by European leaders today. "Europe has lost a great statesman in Francois Mitterrand," he said. "I am mourning a good friend."
        Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, now Lady Thatcher, said that while their political views were very different, she liked and respected Mr. Mitterrand. "Over his many years as President, and by his bearing and his culture, he seemed to symbolize for the rest of the world something of the essential France," she said.
        In the United States, former President George Bush said he would remember Mr. Mitterrand "for his love of France, his pride, his extraordinary sweep of history and the fact that he put value as we did on the strength of the relationship" between France and the United States.
        Though weakened by his illness, Mr. Mitterrand had spent the Christmas holidays in Aswan, in southern Egypt, with his wife, Danielle, and the former President's daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot.
        They, the Mitterrands' two sons, Mr. Mitterrand's brother Robert and other relatives were with him when he died at 8:30 A.M. today in his official apartment near the Ecole Militaire on the Left Bank, according to his doctor, Jean-Pierre Tarot.
        Mr. Mitterrand's election to the first of two terms in 1981 crowned his singlehanded revival of the French Socialist Party, which he had headed for more than a decade.
        The first Socialist to lead his country since Leon Blum in the 1930's, Mr. Mitterrand was elected President on his third try, having lost to De Gaulle in 1965 and Valery Giscard d'Estaing in 1974, both by narrow margins.
        In 1981, he solidly defeated Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, partly through support in the runoff of the French Communist Party, whose opposition to Mr. Mitterrand in  the first round of the election led to their worst showing at the polls in 45 years.
        Mr. Mitterrand's election represented the biggest shift in French politics since the end of World War II. Mr. Mitterrand was the first non-Gaullist to occupy Elysee Palace in the brief history of France's Fifth Republic, and tens of thousands of Parisians celebrated his victory far into the night, marching along the Boulevard Beaumarchais singing the "Marseillaise" and holding a rally  at the Bastille.
        But if Mr. Mitterrand's election elated his supporters, it produced apprehension in Washington, London and Bonn, where fears arose that the new Socialist President would allow the Communists too strong a voice in a leftist French coalition. But Mr. Mitterrand managed to marginalize the Communist influence and the party returned to the opposition in 1984 and were never again  the force they once were.
        In his first months in office, Mr. Mitterrand and the new National Assembly,  in which the Socialists and leftist parties had a majority, nationalized banks and major industries, raised the French minimum wage, and increased government spending.
        But these efforts failed to halt unemployment and rising inflation and French voters began to have second thoughts about the Socialist's policies. When control of the National Assembly was returned to the rightist parties in 1986, Mr. Mitterrand tried to work with a Prime Minister from the opposition, Mr. Chirac. This attempt at "cohabitation," as Mr. Mitterrand called it, ended as enough of a success that Mr. Mitterrand was re-elected President two years later.
        Pragmatic centrism rather than doctrinaire socialism characterized much of Mr. Mitterrand's 14-year tenure.
        He considered among his greatest accomplishments the abolition of the death penalty in the first year of his presidency and a policy of steady decentralization, which gradually returned authority to the regions, which had been ruled tightly from Paris since before the French Revolution.
        Mr. Mitterrand's presidency was also marked by grand public works that changed the face of Paris, including a gigantic square-edged modern arch at the  city's western portals, a modern opera house at the Bastille, and a vast new National Library built on the eastern side at the end of his second term.
        But of all of his legacies to the city, he was proudest of the revitalization of the Museum of the Louvre, a project capped by the construction of a new entrance under a frame-and-glass pyramid designed by I. M. Pei and placed in the palace's western courtyard.
        Political Smorgasbord Disciple of Voltaire In a United Europe
        Mr. Mitterrand was a complex figure who had been a conservative lawyer from the Cognac region of western France.
        A disciple of traditional French literature and thought, Mr. Mitterrand possessed a skill with words. "I observe -- and I write," he said in one of his  dozen books. "I like the written word. Language, philology, grammar. I believe that real literature is born from the exact correspondence of word and thing."
        Mr. Mitterrand said his greatest intellectual hero was Voltaire, the essence  of French wit, intelligence and republican spirit. For him France's greatest villain was Charles de Talleyrand, who directed French foreign policy for kings, revolutionaries, and Napoleon Bonaparte alike. "He sold out France -- to everybody," was Mr. Mitterrand's withering judgment.
        Mr. Mitterrand said he believed that close cooperation between France and Germany was the keystone of European unity, and the Socialist French leader established close ties with Helmut Kohl after he became Chancellor of West Germany in 1982.
        Their relationship came under strain with the collapse of the Berlin Wall in  late 1989 when Mr. Kohl pressed ahead, too vigorously for Mr. Mitterrand's taste, toward Bonn's goal of reunification in 1990. Keeping Germany committed to a more closely integrated Europe, a goal that coincided with Mr. Kohl's vision,  became the centerpiece of Mr. Mitterrand's strategy to preserve French influence despite Germany's greater economic strength.
        After German reunification, Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Kohl were the two principal architects of the treaty signed in the Dutch city of Maastricht in late 1991 that created the European Union out of the European Community, itself  an expansion of the old Common Market. The tie between the two leaders remained  unbroken, and they remained close friends.
        Mr. Mitterrand's efforts to restore France's stature in world affairs reflected the fact that the French had never fully adjusted to the breakup of the French empire that followed World War II.
        Echoing De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand insisted that France was still a great power, with a vast sphere of influence in its former colonial domains in Africa  and other Francophone countries around the world. He supported the independent nuclear deterrent De Gaulle established, carrying out even more atomic weapons tests -- 86 -- than the General had permitted.
        Also like De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand had no fear of telling off the United States when he thought it was wrong. In this he was often encouraged by his wife, the former Danielle Gouze, whom he married in 1944 and who was active in political causes of her own.
        One of Mrs. Mitterrand's interests was Cuba, which she visited often and whose leader, Fidel Castro, she befriended. She persuaded her husband to invite  Mr. Castro to Paris for a visit in early 1995, an occasion Mr. Mitterrand used to describe the continuing American embargo of Cuba as "stupid."
        One of the high points of French-American cooperation in the Mitterrand era came in 1991 when France sent troops to join the American-led coalition that drove Iraq out of Kuwait during the Persian Gulf war.
        France also sent thousands of troops to serve with the United Nations force in the Balkans and Mr. Mitterrand himself made a dramatic and daring visit to Sarajevo in June 1992 that opened the way for an international airlift to the Bosnian capital.
        Early Years From Vichy To the Resistance
        Francois Maurice Marie Mitterrand was born on Oct. 26, 1916, in the town of Jarnac, near Cognac, the brandy-distilling center, one of eight children of Joseph Mitterrand and Yvonne Lorrain. His father was an employee of the Paris-Orleans railroad company who later went on to become a businessman and an  executive of Marcel Dassault's group of aviation companies, a mainstay of the French defense industry.
        Strongly influenced by his Roman Catholic upbringing, Mr. Mitterrand attended the College Saint-Paul in Angouleme, a religious school not far from his home in Jarnac, before moving to Paris to study law and political science.
        Much of his political activity between the time he arrived in Paris as a student in 1934 and the time he emerged as a member of the Resistance to Nazi occupation in 1943 were until recently shrouded in mystery.
        But later in life, as if wanting to set the record straight before his death, he collaborated with a writer named Pierre Pean on "A French Youth: Francois Mitterrand 1934-1947."
        The book, published in 1994, was a revelation. The young Mr. Mitterrand, it turned out, had not been a socialist dreamer but an ultraconservative French nationalist who joined a paramilitary group, the League of National Volunteers.
        After the League of National Volunteers was banned by the government authorities, the young Mr. Mitterrand flirted with other ultranationalist paramilitary groups, Mr. Pean wrote, but did not join them.
        Sent to the front as an army sergeant after the war broke out in 1939, Mr. Mitterrand was wounded by a shell explosion in June 1940 and taken to a prison camp near the city of Kassel, Germany, from which he escaped at the end of 1941.
        With France under Nazi occupation, Mr. Mitterrand initially sought to help the collaborationist Government of Marshal Petain in Vichy. He worked initially  as a minor official of its commissariat for repatriated prisoners of war.
        Mr. Pean wrote that he found no evidence that Mr. Mitterrand had had anything to do with the anti-Semitic measures taken by the Vichy government, and Mr. Mitterrand told the author, "I didn't think about the anti-Semitism" when he was employed by Vichy.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. Mitterrand told Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace  Prize laureate and a Holocaust survivor, in a book the two of them published in  April of 1995, "Memoirs in Two Voices," that seeing French Jews forced to wear a yellow star was one of the things that turned him against the Vichy Government.
        After the war, he became friendly with the former Secretary General of the Vichy police, Rene Bousquet, who was responsible for the deportation of thousands of French Jews to Germany's death camps. Mr. Bousquet was charged with treason but acquitted in 1949. Mr. Mitterrand told Mr. Wiesel that he met Mr. Bousquet then and continued to see him until 1986, when he again came under investigation for committing war crimes.
        Mr. Bousquet was charged anew in 1991 for ordering the deportation of more than 2,000 French Jews in 1942. He was assassinated by Christian Didier, a writer whom the police described as "deranged," in June 1993, before he came to  trial. Changing Sides A Political Game Of Musical Chairs
        It was not until after receiving "La Francisque," Vichy's highest civilian medal, for his work with the former prisoners of war, that Mr. Mitterrand became disabused, in 1943, of the notion that a collaborationist government could preserve French independence.
        He switched his loyalties and offered his services to the anti-Nazi Resistance movement, journeying to London and then to Algiers in December 1943 for a meeting with General De Gaulle, who asked him to forge a single former prisoners' organization from those of the Resistance, the Communists and the one he had run for Vichy.
        After the liberation of Paris in August 1944, he served as secretary general  of the Organization of Prisoners of War, War Victims and Refugees in De Gaulle's first postwar provisional government. He then established a newspaper and began  a political career that would not be tied to the fortunes of the General.
        "After the war, a man of my age didn't know where to go," he said later. "I did not feel like a man of the right, because I disagreed with certain points, especially on social justice. I was tempted by socialism, but not by the parties that represented it."
        He won election to the new National Assembly in 1946 as a member of a center-left party from the Nievre constituency, a largely hilly department in central France. He held this Assembly seat until 1958, when De Gaulle formed the Fifth Republic.
        It was a time when governments rose and fell frequently, and Mr. Mitterrand maneuvered into a variety of cabinet posts under a succession of prime ministers. In 1954 and 1955, he held the key post of Minister of the Interior in the Cabinet of Pierre Mendes-France, and in 1956 and 1957, he held the Justice portfolio under Guy Mollet.
        After the foundation of the Fifth Republic, Mr. Mitterrand formed a center-left opposition to De Gaulle and he was soon recognized as the principal  political threat to Gaullism. Mr. Mitterrand ran unsuccessfully against De Gaulle in 1965 as the candidate of the left, uniting the socialists and the Communists. By winning 32 percent of the vote on the first round, Mr. Mitterrand forced De Gaulle into a runoff, which De Gaulle won narrowly.
        But it was not until 1971 that Mr. Mitterrand took over as leader of the Socialist Party, which had won barely 5 percent of the vote in the previous elections. He reorganized the party and forged tactical alliances with the Communists to increase its appeal to French voters.
        He ran for President again in 1974 and lost by a narrow margin to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing. But seven years later, in a major upset, he defeated him with 51.76 percent of the vote.
        At Elysee Fear and Trembling By the Bourgeoisie
        Mr. Mitterrand was elected to his first term by voters who had warmed to his  words about solidarity and human generosity and to the socialist agenda, including economic growth, the creation of jobs, and the redistribution of wealth. His social policies ranged from reducing the price of false teeth to providing greater protection for tenants.
        But as President, he seemed initially to be more dogmatic. His Socialist-Communist coalition set about nationalizing banks and big industries and frightening France's moneyed classes so badly that many of them sold their luxury apartments in Paris and sought refuge abroad for families and fortunes.
        But the measures failed to achieve economic gains and they weakened the franc. Many wage earners saw their purchasing power decline. Unemployment rose.  Before long, public opinion polls were indicating that Mr. Mitterrand's policies, including his austerity measures, had become highly unpopular.
        Four decades in the hurly-burly of French politics had taught Mr. Mitterrand  flexibility and brought him a reputation as a pragmatist. After the economy deteriorated, he changed policies.
        By 1984, the French Communist Party broke with Mr. Mitterrand, and in early 1986, the Socialists lost control of the National Assembly. Mr. Chirac, the head of the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic, became Prime Minister.
        For the remainder of Mr. Mitterrand's first term as President, he shared power uneasily with Mr. Chirac, who retained the Prime Minister's post until 1988, when he unsuccessfully challenged Mr. Mitterrand for the presidency. The dual arrangement -- known as "cohabitation" -- added to the blurring of distinctions between the left and the right in French politics.
        By the end of his first term, Mr. Mitterrand and the Socialist Party had substantially softened their economic views. They were no longer pledged to nationalizing major industries. In other economic spheres, their economic doctrine contained only small differences from the free-market liberalism of Mr. Chirac.
        During the re-election campaign, it was Mr. Mitterrand who presented himself  successfully as the soul of caution and legitimacy. By the time he was re-elected President, his popularity had rebounded, and his personal following was far larger than that of his party.
        Despite that success, Mr. Mitterrand was dogged by many other problems. They  included the growth of the far-right in French politics and a considerable degree of disorientation, within the French populace, that stemmed from the end  of the cold war.
        In March 1993, the Socialists were trounced in parliamentary elections by a conservative coalition, and from then until the end of his second term in May 1995, Mr. Mitterrand was again forced to co-habit with an opposition Prime Minister, Edouard Balladur.
        In September 1992, Mr. Mitterrand had undergone surgery for prostate cancer and seemed to recover well. But after a second operation in July 1994, followed  by chemotherapy, he began to look pale and drawn.
        To the end, Mr. Mitterrand maintained his habit of speaking in long sentences peppered with references reflecting his traditional education in Latin and Greek.
        For all his erudition, Mr. Mitterrand's personal style was simple. After taking office as President, and thereby becoming master of Elysee Palace on the  Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, he continued to live relatively modestly in his home on the Rue de Bievre on the Left Bank.
        He is survived by his wife; their sons, Jean-Christophe, a consultant, and Gilbert, a law professor and socialist politician in Aquitaine, and a daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot, a student at the Ecole Normale Superieure. He is also survived by two brothers and four sisters.
      