
        Dr. William E. Hanford, an industrial chemist whose wide-ranging interests led to both the development of polyurethanes and the first liquid household detergent, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md., where he lived.  He was 87.
        Polyurethanes are now found in thousands of products like skateboard wheels,  varnishes, heart valves and building insulation.
        Dr. Hanford was granted more than 120 United States patents in the course of a long career, but he is best known for developing in 1936 the first method for  linking organic molecules into long chains to produce polyurethanes. He worked on the project at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company with Drs. Donald F. Holmes  and R. E. Christ.
        Although work on urethane products had been done in Germany, patents by Drs.  Hanford, Holmes and Christ put Du Pont into the polyurethane business, and they  laid the foundation for the field.
        "It was a tremendous breakthrough," said Dr. Stanley C. Israel, chairman of the chemistry department at the University of Massachusetts at Lowell. "Today the applications are monumental."
        At the time, polymers were made by linking identical molecules together, but  the polyurethanes are made up of repeating units of two molecules "strung together like pop-it beads, even into the millions," Dr. Israel said.
        Varying the composition of the pieces of the repeating units opened the door  to a broad range of polymers, all of them very strong. That strength made polyurethanes, as both films and foams, adaptable for many purposes. They have had many industrial uses, especially as tough coatings for machine parts, like the rollers of printing presses.
        "It's also the rubber in high-performance sneakers," Dr. Israel said. "And almost every plastic that's put into the body, like heart valves or even artificial hearts, is made of polyurethane or is coated with it. The body sees it as very friendly material."
        Also at Du Pont, Dr. Hanford made Teflon, a fluoroplastic invented by Dr. Roy J. Plunkett, commercially viable by directing the research that found ways to form it into sheets and produce it in large quantities.
        In 1942, he joined the General Aniline and Film Corporation, directing work that led to the first liquid household detergent to be successfully marketed, Glim. He also oversaw the research to make a better plastic bottle for the detergent.
        In 1946, Dr. Hanford moved to the M. W. Kellogg Company, where he became the  director of petroleum and chemical research, looking at ways to produce petroleum and other useful chemicals from coal. He led a large team of chemists  and engineers in building the first synthetic fuel plant, in Johannesburg. This  research trail led later to low-cost production of ammonia.
        At the Olin Corporation, where Dr. Hanford became the research director in 1953, he developed a new shotgun shell, the Mark V, which became very popular, as well as the Winchester Company's all-plastic shotgun shell. He also promoted  a high-speed rolling process for composite metals, which was adopted by many governments, including the United States, for composite-metal coins that conserved silver.
        Dr. Hanford retired from Olin in 1973 and began a company, World Water Resources, with his son, William E. Hanford Jr., in Bethesda to look for ways to provide clean drinking water in developing nations.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Lorraine, and his son, both of Bethesda, and two grandchildren.
      