
        Peter Frelinghuysen Carleton, a member of the board and former executive director of the Fresh Air Fund in New York, died Saturday at a hospital in Seattle, where he was on a family visit. He was 60 and lived on a family farm in Dublin, N.H.
        The cause was liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Carleton devoted his professional career to children's education and the opening of educational opportunities for disadvantaged youth. Over the years he  served as a teacher, headmaster, counselor and fund-raiser for children's education.
        His association with the Fresh Air Fund lasted nearly 50 years, beginning with his first contribution at age 12. He became executive director in 1971 and  a board member in 1975 when he left the executive post to become headmaster of the Indian Mountain School in Lakeville, Conn.
        He was a mainstay of the fund's summer programs, which send thousands of youngsters to camps in Fishkill, N.Y., and the Friendly Town Program, which places them with families who often ask them to return the next summer.
        Mr. Carleton was considered the moving force behind the new career awareness  camp in Fishkill, which seeks to guide disadvantaged adolescents toward educational achievement and the workplace. After starting the camp as a pilot project in 1992, the fund raised $6 million to make it a reality. It was dedicated last August and named Camp Mariah after the singer Mariah Carey, who contributed $1 million.
        Mr. Carleton was born in Manhattan and graduated from Yale University in 1958. He earned a master's degree in history at New York University and a master's in education administration at Columbia University.
        He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Catherine Morris Stinson Carleton, known as Kitty; a son, David, of Evanston, Ill.; two daughters, Blair, of Seattle, and Sara, of Charlottesville, Va.; two brothers, Richard H. 3d of Greenville, Me., and James T. Emert of Phoenix, and one grandson
      