
        Howard Taubman, chief music critic and then chief theater critic for The New  York Times in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital  in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Mr. Taubman became music editor of The Times in 1935 and was appointed its chief music critic in 1955, shortly after the death of his predecessor, Olin Downes. The only break in his four-decade career at The Times was the year or so he spent toward the end of World War II as a writer for the Mediterranean edition of Stars and Stripes, the Army newspaper.
        In 1960 Mr. Taubman was named chief theater critic, succeeding Brooks Atkinson, who had retired. In that post he was a thorn in the side of the producer David Merrick, who at one point attacked his qualifications on Johnny Carson's "Tonight Show." Mr. Merrick had to wait until Mr. Taubman's last day on the job for an unqualified rave, for the Broadway production of "Marat/Sade."
        That year, 1965, Mr. Taubman became critic at large, with freedom to roam the globe and write about almost any cultural event. His byline continued in the paper into the 1970's. In the 70's and 80's, as a consultant to Exxon, he played a role in creating the public television series "Great Performances."
        In addition to his career in journalism, virtually all of it at The Times, Mr. Taubman wrote or edited 11 books, most of them on musical subjects, including "The Maestro," a biography of Arturo Toscanini published in 1951. In 1968 he was producer of Vladimir Horowitz's televised concert at Carnegie Hall.
        Hyman Howard Taubman was born in Manhattan on July 4, 1907, the eldest of five children of Max and Etta Shubert Taubman. He was educated at DeWitt Clinton High School, worked for the school newspaper and soaked up as much of the city's cultural riches as he could afford.
        He had no formal music training, but he loved concerts and seized every opportunity to attend one. In "The Pleasure of Their Company," a memoir published in 1994, he reminisced fondly about attending summer concerts in Lewisohn Stadium at City College. The acoustics were uncertain, he recalled, but the price was right: 25 cents for the cheapest seats, high up in the concrete stadium.
        "For one who had had to do with a small collection of Caruso records played at home on a modest phonograph," he wrote, "this opportunity to hear a good deal of the symphonic repertory was a treasurable boon."
        He went on to win a four-year tuition scholarship -- annual tuition was $400  -- to Cornell University, where he worked for his room and board. One job was to assist Otto Kinkeldey of the music department. The professor "treated me as a kind of protege," he wrote in his 1994 memoir, "lecturing me incessantly about music and manners." Mr. Taubman added, "I believe I learned something of both from him."
        In 1929 he graduated a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and shortly thereafter went  to work for The Times. He joined the music department in 1930.
        Not all of his writing in that job was about music. On a trip to Toronto, for example, he learned that although the Metropolitan Opera Company was welcome to  perform there, the Toronto Symphony could not visit the United States because of certain provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952. Mr. Taubman pounced on the story and got it into print before journalists knew about it in Toronto.
        In 1935 he greeted Marian Anderson's concert at Town Hall with a rapturous review that helped put her in the forefront of American musical artists, citing  the "sheer magnificence" of her voice. Two decades later he served as ghostwriter for her autobiography, "My Lord, What a Morning."
        In a review of a performance by the cellist Pablo Casals during a visit to the Casals Festival in Spain in 1951, he wrote: "To begin with, no one sits at Casals' feet. He does not hand down judgments from on high. He approaches music in a spirit of humility.
        "Each composition, whether it is a piece in which he plays the cello or a work for orchestra which he is to conduct, is like a fresh adventure to him. He  may know it as well as he remembers the landscape and people of his beloved Catalonia, but he does not take it for granted. Long before he began rehearsals, he had examined it anew in his study, and the rehearsals and discussions with his colleagues amount to voyages of rediscovery."
        During his years as chief music critic, Mr. Taubman wrote not only about the  great singers and musicians of the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic but also about such jazz performers as Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and Benny Goodman, and even pop singers, among them Edith Piaf, Johnny Ray and Elvis Presley.
        Piaf, in his view, was an unusual musical talent. "In a rough, vulgar voice she sang of suffering and unrequited love," he wrote in his memoir, "a character out of Colette."
        His years as theater critic found him covering some of the most electric openings on Broadway. When Robert Bolt's "Man for All Seasons" opened in 1961, with Paul Scofield starring as Sir Thomas More, Mr. Taubman summed up the work as "a play that is luminous with intelligence and steely with conviction." Of Mr. Scofield's performance he wrote, "The crinkle of an eye emphasizes the pithiness of a phrase; the droop of a shoulder sums up the weight of an unbending conscience."
        Mr. Taubman found Edward Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" a play "possessed by raging demons," one that "brims over with howling furies that do not drown out a fierce compassion." Peter Weiss's "Marat/Sade" was, he wrote, "a vivid work that vibrates on wild, intense, murmurous and furious levels."
        "The play may shock you with its allusions to violence and naked emotions," he added, "but it will not leave you untouched."
        In addition to the Toscanini biography, Mr. Taubman's books include "Opera -- Front and Back" (1938), "Music as a Profession" (1939), "How to Build a Record Library" (1953) and "The Making of the American Theater" (1965). He also edited  "Memories of Opera," by Giulio Gatti-Casazza, and other works.
        He held honorary degrees from Temple University, Oberlin University and the Philadelphia Academy of Music.
        Mr. Taubman married Nora Stern, a teacher, in 1934. She died in 1985.
        He is survived by his second wife, Lori March Taubman; two sons, William, who is Bertrand Snell Professor of Political Science at Amherst College in Massachusetts, and Philip, assistant editorial page editor of The Times; a stepdaughter, Alexandra Mackler of West Orange, N.J., four grandchildren and a step-grandchild.
      