
        Dr. Robley D. Evans, a nuclear physicist who helped persuade the Government to allow the use of radioactive isotopes in medical research in the 1940's and who helped set the standard for permissible human exposure, died on Sunday in Paradise Valley, Ariz., where he lived. He was 88.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        Dr. Evans was well known for a study of workers who had been exposed to radium when they used radium paint to put luminous numbers on instruments. His initial research, a study of 27 people published in 1941, set a standard for the maximum allowable lifetime dose that is still used today. He eventually studied  more than 900 people exposed to radium, even having the bodies of some former workers exhumed.
        A radiation standard was needed because scientists needed to know how to do experiments safely as they found numerous uses for radioactive materials -- from construction of the atomic bomb to medicine. Scientists applied the radium work  to research with other radioactive forms of elements, called isotopes.
        In 1935, Dr. Evans became the director of the Radioactivity Center at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a position that put him in the leadership of the young health physics field. After World War II, he lobbied for the Government to support research on medical uses of radioactivity, and he served on many boards that helped the Government set up the regulations governing such  work.
        A former colleague, Dr. Constantine J. Maletskos of Gloucester, Mass., said that during the 1940's the Radioactivity Center was a mecca for people who wished to learn how to use different forms of radioactivity.
        Dr. Evans persuaded M.I.T. to build the first atom smasher, the Markle Cyclotron, in 1938. It generated radioactive isotopes for biological and medical research. The cyclotron produced isotopes for dozens of research centers and companies.
        Its first product was iodine-130, an isotope that helped in research on thyroid disease. Dr. Evans worked with Dr. James Howard Means of Harvard Medical School in finding ways to use radioactive iodine to diagnose and treat hyperactive thyroids. The thyroid gland absorbs iodine. Tests could detect how much of the radioactive isotope was absorbed, indicating how active the gland was. Increasing the dose of radioactive iodine also let researchers slow a hyperactive thyroid by destroying some of its tissue.
        Through his work at the Radioactivity Center, Dr. Evans helped develop ways to use radioactive potassium for geological dating.
        The center's work also drew Dr. Evans into research that later became controversial, the feeding of radioactive calcium and iron in nutritional studies in the 1940's and 1950's. One study fed the isotopes to retarded children at the Fernald State School in Waltham, Mass. Dr. Evans had animal studies done first to make sure that the doses used would be safe, Dr. Maletskos said.
        When the research became known decades later, Dr. Evans defended the decision not to inform parents that radioactive materials were being ingested by the children, saying the amount used had not been dangerous. In 1994, The Boston Globe quoted him as saying to reporters: "You guys keep calling them radiation experiments, and they weren't. They were tracer experiments. You can use tiny amounts of radioactive materials and trace drugs or minerals in the body with substantially no effects from the radiation."
        Robley Dunglison Evans was born on May 18, 1907, in University Place, Neb., and he earned his doctorate at the California Institute of Technology in 1932. In 1934, he joined the faculty at M.I.T., from which he retired in 1972.
        In 1990, he won the Enrico Fermi Award, the highest scientific award given by the Department of Energy.
        He is survived by his wife and onetime colleague, the former Mary Margaret Shanahan of Paradise Valley, and three children from his first marriage: two sons, Richard O., of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Ronald A., of Tucson, Ariz., and a daughter, Nadia Hill, of Corpus Christi, Tex.
      