
        Evan Esar, who devoted his life to writing and compiling books of humor, died on Dec. 9 at his home in suburban Los Angeles, friends reported last week.
        Mr. Esar, who lived in New York for most of his life, was 96 and lived in Laguna Hills, Calif., at his death.
        As a young man, he made money by writing articles about oddities, and in the 1930's, he turned to humor, writing, editing and compiling books of jokes and humor. In an interview, he once classified himself as a humorologist.
        His books included "Esar's Comic Dictionary" (1943), "Esar's Joke Dictionary" (1945), "The Animal Joker" (1946), "The Dictionary of Humorous Quotations" (1949), "The Humor of Humor" (1952), "Humorous English" (1961) and "The Comic Encyclopedia" (1978).
        "I am not interested in dull stuff like the psychology of laughter," he said  in a 1945 interview. "I am interested in classifying humor, in the nature and evolution of humor. I am a man of science."
        He identified the five main categories of humor as wordplay (including puns), caricature (exaggeration, insult), blunders (mistaken identity, malapropisms), wit (hoaxes, repartee) and nonsense (doubletalk, limericks). And, he said, they  sometimes overlapped.
        Mr. Esar laid claim to a humor library of 2,000 books, and given his exposure to such quantities of this material, it was not surprising that he said: "It is  very rarely that I ever hear a joke I haven't heard before. After a drink or two, when in a light mood, I can laugh, though. I build up a tactful enjoyment."
        In 1949, Charles Poore of The New York Times said that Mr. Esar's "Dictionary of Humorous Quotations" was "one of the wisest and wittiest books of the year."  It compiled such quotations as these:
        Rebecca West: "He is every other inch a gentleman."
        George Jean Nathan: "He writes his plays for the ages -- the ages between 5 and 12."
        Oscar Wilde: "He had the sort of face that, once seen, is never remembered."
        La Rochefoucauld: "We think few people sensible except those who agree with us."
        Robert Hutchins: "Whenever I feel like exercising, I lie down till the feeling passes."
        Mr. Esar left little public record of his early life. Christopher C. Nielsen  of Mission Viejo, Calif., who befriended the writer and his wife in their final years, said he understood that Mr. Esar was born on July 2, 1899, on a New Jersey farm, the son of immigrants from Russia.
        Mr. Nielsen said he believed that the child was named Esar Levine and that the family moved to New York two or three years later. Mr. Esar spoke of having  a witty grandfather and loving silly rhymes and jokes, which he said he would write down.
        Mr. Esar's wife, the former Cece Silverman, who was known as Patsy, died last June. Mr. Esar left no immediate family.
      