
        William Pearson Tolley, the longtime chancellor of Syracuse University whose  vision helped transform it into one of the nation's largest private universities, died on Friday at his home in Syracuse. He was 95.
        Dr. Tolley was a member of the Syracuse University class of 1922, putting himself through college in part by playing saxophone in a group called the Synful Syncopators. He went on to receive four advanced degrees, including a doctorate from Columbia University.
        Dr. Tolley was born in Honesdale, Pa., and grew up in Binghamton, N.Y., where he worked in his father's shoe store. At age 30, he was named the president of Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa., becoming the nation's youngest president of a four-year college.
        He was made chancellor of Syracuse University in 1942. During his 27-year tenure, the university's gross assets swelled to $200 million from $15 million and its endowment to more than $56 million from about $5 million.
        The enrollment mushroomed to 24,000 from a World War II-era low of 3,800, with graduate student enrollment growing to 8,000 from 400.
        Dr. Tolley "combined great measures of commitment and courage with a talent for seeing the future," the current chancellor, Kenneth A. Shaw, said in a statement. "Thus he was able, time after time, to persuade others to join him in preparing the university for that future."
        Dr. Tolley pushed the university to develop in dozens of directions, from expanding its overseas ties to improving its research programs. His friendship with S. I. Newhouse, the publisher, led to the creation of the S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications in 1964.
        "The building of a university takes endless patience and time and devotion and love without limit," he said once. "This is not a mushroom we are growing. It is a sturdy oak."
        A passionate reader, gobbling up as many as 300 books a year, Mr. Tolley also collected rare books and donated many to the university's library. He published  scholarly works and an autobiography, "At the Foundation of Youth: Memoirs of a  College President."
        He is survived by two daughters, Nelda T. Price of St. Petersburg, Fla., and  Katryn T. Fritz, of Manlius, N.Y.; and a son, William P. Tolley Jr. of Guilford, Conn. His wife, the former Ruth Marion Canfield, also a member of the Syracuse University class of 1922, died in 1988.
      