
        William P. Tavoulareas, former president and chief executive of the Mobil Corporation, whose libel suit against The Washington Post in the early 1980's caused concern about whether journalists could continue to write aggressive investigative stories, died on Saturday at Boca Raton Hospital in Florida.
        He was 75 years old and lived in Boca Raton.
        William B. O'Connor, a lawyer representing the family, said the cause of death was complications from a stroke that the former executive suffered early last year.
        The Post article in 1979 that led to the libel suit said Mr. Tavoulareas had  "set up his son" Peter in the shipping business and implied that he had misused  his position and corporate assets to benefit his son by steering Mobil business  to his son's company, Atlas Maritime, based in London.
        A Federal jury found in July 1982 that Mr. Tavoulareas had been libeled, and  a $2 million judgment was entered.
        A Federal appeals court reversed the verdict in March 1987, finding that the  article's main contention was substantially true, and the Supreme Court allowed  the appellate court's decision to stand.
        But the period from the original verdict until the reversal was often one of  apprehension for newspaper editors. They feared that the case would lead to a wave of libel suits and inhibit newspapers from doing tough investigative stories.
        The appeals court's 1987 decision reversed a decision by a three-judge panel  of the same court, which had found in April 1985 that the article contained false statements and that "the evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that the article was published in reckless disregard of its falsity."
        It was this decision that had particularly upset much of the newspaper industry.
        By 1985 Mr. Tavoulareas had retired from Mobil, where he was replaced as president in 1984 by Allen E. Murray.
        Under Mr. Tavoulareas, who had close ties to the Saudi Arabians including Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the oil minister, Mobil grew enormously. The company's  revenues climbed from $7.6 billion when he took over as president in 1969 to nearly $70 billion when he retired.
        He was born in Greece, and immigrated with his family to the United States when he was 15 years old, settling in Queens. He graduated from St. John's University, earning bachelor's and law degrees, and was a trustee of the university at the time of his death.
        A straightforward man known as Tav among his friends, he spoke rapidly and was in sharp contrast to the top executives in the oil industry who generally spoke with either the drawl of the Southwest or the measured tones of the Ivy League. Mr. Tavoulareas kept close to his Greek heritage and his ties in Queens.
        He joined Mobil as an accountant in 1947 because the company's offices then were in lower Manhattan near St. John's Law School, where he studied at night.
        In an interview in 1971 he recalled: "At first I was in awe just to be part of big business. Then I learned that not everyone over me was brilliant, and that I could hold my own. The second thing I learned was that I talked too fast."
        Even though friends had told him he had little chance of rising in the oil industry because of his background, he persisted. After a series of financial and planning positions he was elected a director in 1965 and president and chief operating officer in 1969.
        He was considered an able negotiator, keeping close ties to Saudi Arabia, which holds the world' largest oil reserves. Through those ties he was able to keep Mobil well positioned for supplies of crude oil. Under Mr. Tavoulareas, production in North America was increased, and he and Mobil's chairman, Rawleigh Warner Jr., were on the prowl, buying up domestic reserves -- a cheaper way to increase output at the time than drilling for oil.
        Mobil's aggressive stance under Mr. Tavoulareas led to numerous battles with  Congress and environmentalists and led some politicians to advocate breaking up  the big oil companies.
        Seeking to diversify, Mobil made a misstep in the 1970's, when it bought Montgomery Ward, the department store chain. The retailer was later sold when it began to post large losses.
        After the shock of the OPEC oil embargo in 1974 led to drives to conserve energy to lessen American dependence on imports, Mr. Tavoulareas challenged the  notion that conservation alone would do the job. He maintained that the United States had enough sources of energy and that the problems were policy roadblocks that prevented the development of oil and gas deposits.
        He also served as a director of Georgetown University and a governor of the Society of New York Hospital.
        Mr. Tavoulareas is survived by his wife, Adele, of Boca Raton; two sons, Peter and William, of Boca Raton; a daughter, Patrice, of New York City, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 20, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Tuesday about William P. Tavoulareas, a former president of the Mobil Corporation, misstated his birthplace. It was Brooklyn, not Greece.
        The obituary also misstated a position held by Mr. Tavoulareas at Mobil. Besides being president, he was chief operating officer, not chief executive.
      