
        Ralph J. Stolle, a prolific inventor and businessman, died on Jan. 13 at his  farm near Lebanon, Ohio. He was 91 and had cancer, said Nelson Schwab Jr., his lawyer.
        Mr. Stolle, who held more than 50 patents, developed machinery that made mass production of pop-top beverage cans economical and practical. Although the concept for the can top was developed elsewhere, it was not until the Stolle Corporation developed devices for rapidly and cheaply scoring the top that the cans went into widespread use.
        The Stolle Corporation was sold to the Alcoa Corporation in 1975 and is now  part of the Alcoa Packaging Machinery subsidiary, producing hundreds of millions of cans a year.
        Mr. Stolle (pronounced STOH-lee) also founded the Ralph J. Stolle Company of  Cincinnati, which owns 20 companies in the heavy equipment, farm implement and metal forming, stamping and tooling businesses.
        He was also interested in farming and sponsored a research and development company that specialized in injecting farm animals with human ailments so they would develop antibodies useful to human consumers of dairy or poultry products.
        The company's techniques for producing hyperimmune animals have been awarded  patents in the United States, and Stolle Immune Milk is produced in New Zealand  for sale in Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
        Ralph Stolle was born on Jan 17, 1904 in Newport, Ky., and attended schools in Northern Kentucky and Cincinnati. He also attended the University of Cincinnati but did not graduating.
        With his father and brothers he founded the Stolle Corporation in 1923, specializing in treating and forming aluminum. The company remained in the aluminum and aluminum machinery business until the sale to Alcoa.
        Mr. Stolle is survived by his wife, Kathleen Porter Stolle of Lebanon. Two other wives, Dorothy Judkins Stolle and Pauline Yergin Stolle, died before him.  He is also survived by two sisters, Margaret Hilliker of Fort Myers, Fla., and Vera Yearout of Cincinnati; three daughters, Sandra Jane Perry of Lebanon, Ohio, Gail Judkins Norris of Springboro, Ohio, and Mary Jo Cropper of Centerville, Ohio; 8 grandchildren; 4 step-grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.
      