
        David Robin Francis Guy Greville, the Eighth Earl of Warwick, who created an  uproar when he stripped his family's ancestral castle of its art treasures and then sold it to the Madame Tussauds organization as a tourist attraction, died on Saturday in Torremolinos, Spain. He was 61 and maintained homes there and in  New York, Paris and the Turks and Caicos Islands.
        A friend, Reinaldo Herrera, said the cause was heart failure.
        If there were those in England who were scandalized in 1978 when the earl, then Lord Brooke, sold Warwick Castle to the operators of the famous London wax  museum, he was only following in his father's footsteps. His father, the seventh earl, widely described as one Britain's richest men, had not only already sold off much of the family's vast land holdings in Warwick, some 80 miles northwest  of London, but he had also left England altogether in 1969 and moved to Rome to  avoid British income taxes. He later gave Warwick Castle to his son to avoid inheritance taxes. He died in Rome in 1984.
        For all the hand-wringing over the prospect that one of England's archicectural treasures would be turned into a tawdry tourist trap, the turreted castle near Stratford-on-Avon had already been open to the paying public for years.
        Before Tussauds paid Lord Brooke $2.5 million in a transaction now described  as a 99-year-lease, he had sold many of its art works, including four views of the castle painted by the 18th century Venetian master Canaletto.
        Much of the public anguish focused on the prospect that many of the works would be sold abroad, as, indeed, they were.
        Lord Brooke did not respond to his critics, but his father expressed the family's attitude about their ancestral home: "It stinks of old shoes, old socks and wet macintoshes," he said.
        By that standard, at least, the castle seems to have fared well. Under Tussauds management it has been cleaned up and aired out and many of its vast chambers have been filled with wax figures and other items depicting historic scenes associated with the castle.
        By contrast, a Tussauds executive once pointed out, other castles open to the public are mere empty shells. Since Tussauds took over, tourist visits have increased significantly, to almost 800,000 last year.
        The earl, whose marriage ended in divorce, is survived by a son, Guy David, Lord Brooke, who becomes the ninth earl; a daughter, Lady Charlotte Anne Fraser, and four grandchildren, all of London.
      