
        M. Larry Lawrence, who rose from poverty to become a wealthy entrepreneur and then Ambassador to Switzerland, died Tuesday in Bern at the age of 69.
        He had been under treatment for a rare blood disease for the past two years,  said his wife, the former Shelia Davis.
        The confirmation of Mr. Lawrence, who had heavily contributed to President Clinton's 1992 campaign, was held up in the Senate for more than two months in 1994 because of questions about his qualifications for the ambassador's post.
        Mr. Lawrence finally took up his duties in March 1994, and two weeks later President Clinton took his first vacation in office at Mr. Lawrence's California home, Crown Manor, a 35-room estate on the beach near Mr. Lawrence's prize acquisition, the Hotel del Coronado near San Diego.
        His ambassadorship was not without controversy. Last year, he ruffled the Swiss with an editorial in the Neue Zurcher Zeitung urging them to adopt stronger arms control measures. He also raised eyebrows in the United States by  beginning a campaign for "tax deductible" contributions to refurbish the 80-year-old United States Embassy in Bern -- where the Lawrences complained that they had only five bedrooms.
        Mr. Lawrence served in the merchant marine during World War II and attended the University of Arizona for two years on a football scholarship. After beginning a career as an advertising salesman in Chicago, he moved to California and made a fortune in construction, real estate and insurance. Ten years ago he  listed 39 companies of which he was either the chief executive or partner; most  were real estate ventures. His fortune has been estimated at $300 million, and he was listed among the 400 wealthiest Americans by Forbes magazine.
        Mr. Lawrence had long been a heavy donor to the Democratic Party, giving a total of $10 million since 1952 to Presidential candidates like Senators John Glenn of Ohio, Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota and Frank Church of Idaho, as well as the campaigns of President Jimmy Carter and Vice President Walter F. Mondale. He gave $200,000 to the 1992 Clinton campaign and also served on its national finance committee.
        At the time of his ambassadorial nomination it was disclosed that Mr. Lawrence had paid $7,179 in fines to the Federal Election Committee for violating the $25,000 limit on contributions to candidates in 1988.
        He had been married three previous times.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Robert, of San Diego and three daughters, Andrea, of Germany, Leslie Caspi of San Diego and Stephanie Lawrence of New York.
      