
        Asa S. Herzog, a former chief United States judge in the nation's busiest bankruptcy court, in the Southern District of New York, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 92.
        Thanks to his central position, the length of his tenure and his authorship of the standard text on bankruptcy during the years when the number and complexity of bankruptcies were increasing, Judge Herzog was widely regarded as  the dean of the nation's bankruptcy judges. His judicial tenure spanned 1958 to  1975, when he retired.
        He was also a member of the Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules of the Judicial Conference of the United States from 1960 to 1988. This organization promulgates the rules that implement the bankruptcy statutes.
        Judge Herzog was born in New York City and was a graduate of City College and Brooklyn Law School.
        He practiced bankruptcy law in Manhattan with the firm of Menin & Herzog in the years before he became a judge. Among his clients was Bernard K. Marcus, president of the Bank of United States, which went out of business in the 1930's.
        In bankruptcy court, Judge Herzog was the referee, as bankruptcy judges were  called until 1973, for many important cases. In the 1950's, for example, he was  referee for the Mutual Broadcasting System radio network. In the 1960's he was a bankruptcy referee for the reorganization of the American-flag shipping empire of Manuel E. Kulukundis, as well as the bankruptcy filing of the Zeckendorf Hotels Corporation, a subsidiary of Webb & Knapp, the real-estate investment company headed by William Zeckendorf.
        In the 1970's Judge Herzog's prominent cases included the bankruptcy of Computer Applications, a computer software, direct-mail and market-research company; Blair & Company, a former member of the New York Stock Exchange, and El Tiempo, the nation's second largest Spanish-language daily newspaper.
        Judge Herzog was the author of a standard text, "Herzog's Bankruptcy Forms and Practice," first published in the 1940's by Clark Boardman & Company, which, beginning in the late 1950's, was written with the lawyers Sheldon Lowe and Joel B. Zweibel.
        Judge Herzog was also the author, with A. J. Ezickson, of "Camera, Take the Stand," a 1940 Prentice-Hall book that detailed the use of photography in crime  detection and the law.
        After his retirement in 1975, Judge Herzog joined Gelbert & Kronovet of New York, a commercial law firm.
        He received many awards, including the 1993 Lifetime Award for Excellence in  Education from the National Conference of Bankruptcy Judges. In 1981 he was designated "Mr. Bankruptcy" by the National Conference of Bankruptcy Judges.
        In addition, Judge Herzog was editor in chief of the Journal of the National  Association of Referees in Bankruptcy, and co-editor in chief of the Collier Bankruptcy Guide from 1981 to 1993, published by Matthew Bender.
        Judge Herzog is survived by his wife, Ruth, of Fort Lauderdale, and two granddaughters, Emily and Jane, of New York City. His daughter, Lynn, who was married to Mr. Zweibel, died in 1984.
      