
        Richard A. Schoenherr, a professor of sociology whose study of the decline in the number of Roman Catholic priests helped to raise public awareness of that trend, died on Tuesday at his home. He was 60 and lived in Madison, Wis.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        A former priest who had taught at the University of Wisconsin at Madison for the past 25 years, Dr. Schoenherr devoted much of his academic career to monitoring organizational change in the Catholic Church, especially the decline  in the number of priests since the mid-1960's.
        In recent years, he warned that the church risked becoming "protestantized" as ever-fewer priests became available to consecrate the eucharist, the bread and wine that in Catholic theology become Jesus's body and blood during the Mass, and the laity grew accustomed to worship without priests.
        Among sociologists, Dr. Schoenherr was best known for his analysis of the priest census records of 86 dioceses, which he conducted with Lawrence A. Young, a sociologist at Brigham Young University. The two men reported that the church  was ordaining only about 500 men annually in the early 1980's, a number that was down nearly 50 percent from the 1960's and far short of replacing those who were dying, retiring or resigning from the priesthood.
        Dr. Schoenherr and Dr. Young predicted that by 2005, the number of active priests would have fallen at least 40 percent from its level in 1966, while the number of lay Catholics would have substantially increased. They published their findings in a book, "Full Pews and Empty Altars." (University of Wisconsin, 1993)
        Dean Hoge, a professor of sociology at Catholic University, said yesterday that Dr. Schoenherr's work had a strong influence on him and other students of demographic change in the priesthood. "After all the hoopla about the priest shortage, here was a man who had unassailable numbers about what was happening," he said.
        Although Dr. Hoge credited him with an exacting precision in his analysis of  priestly demographics, Dr. Schoenherr could also be outspoken in attributing the clergy shortage to the church's requirement of priestly celibacy, thereby earning himself criticism from some bishops, who regarded his work as aiding those who favored opening the priesthood to married men and to women.
        Dr. Schoenherr was born Jan. 11, 1935, in Center Line, Mich. He graduated from Sacred Heart Seminary in Detroit and St. John's Seminary in Plymouth, Mich. He was ordained a priest in the Detroit Archdiocese in 1961, but left the priesthood nine years later.
        Dr. Schoenherr received a doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1970. Before his death, he completed a new book on the church titled "Goodbye Father:  Celibacy and Patriarchy in the Catholic Church," to be published this year.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Judith Woods; two sons, Andrew Schoenherr of St. Paul and Lance Cpl. Joseph, a marine stationed in the Persian  Gulf; a daughter, Maria Schoenherr of Seattle; eight brothers, James, Norman, William, Thomas, Roger and Dennis, all of Detroit, and John and Robert, both of  Florida, and two sisters, Miriam Wilson and Patricia Vanderbrook, both of Detroit.
      