
        Dr. Alfred S. Evans, an emeritus professor of epidemiology at the Yale University School of Medicine who investigated the role of the Epstein-Barr virus in infectious mononucleosis and other diseases, died on Sunday at his home in North Branford, Conn. He was 78.
        The cause was complications from cancer, family members said.
        Early in his career, during a fellowship at Yale and then as a professor at  the University of Wisconsin, Dr. Evans conducted studies confirming that mononucleosis was transmitted mainly through kissing. He popularized the term "the kissing disease" for the illness, which is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus and primarily strikes people from ages 10 to 35.
        But Dr. Evans took his findings on mononucleosis, an acute illness, and applied it to chronic diseases, including lymphoma and other forms of cancer, said a former colleague, Dr. Robert W. McCollum, the retired dean of the Dartmouth Medical School. "He went on to look at the E.-B. virus in relation to  a whole host of illnesses other than mono," Dr. McCollum said.
        Nancy Mueller, a professor of epidemiology at Harvard Medical School, said Dr. Evans was instrumental in establishing the role of Epstein-Barr in causing Hodgkin's disease, a type of lymphoma.
        Dr. Mueller said that Dr. Evans took the traditional model of seroepidemiology -- in which researchers look at the pattern of antibodies in people who develop an acute disease -- and applied it to chronic illnesses. "He extended it to thinking about something with much longer pathogenesis, chronic disease where you're probably talking about 10 years from infection to outcome," she said. "That was very creative."
        Dr. Evans was born in Buffalo and received an undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan in 1939. He received a medical degree from the University of Buffalo in 1943, and entered the military a year later, serving as a public health officer in Japan. It was while in the military, working with the noted epidemiologist Dr. John R. Paul, that Dr. Evans developed his interest in infectious diseases.
        After 14 years on the faculty of Wisconsin, Dr. Evans became a professor at Yale in 1966. He retired in 1994.
        While at Yale he was director of the medical school's serum reference bank under the auspices of the World Health Organization.
        Dr. McCollum said the serum bank, a collection of samples representing cross  sections of populations at given points in time, was a valuable research tool and likened it to an archeological expedition. "You go into the freezer and get  serums from years back and find tracers in the form of antibodies," he said. Without Dr. Evans's energy and commitment the bank would not have survived, he said.
        Dr. Evans was a prolific writer and editor who was responsible for two standard epidemiology textbooks, "Viral Infections of Humans" (3d edition, Plenum Medical Book Company, 1991) and "Bacterial Infections of Humans" (2d edition, Plenum, 1991). His last book was "Causation and Disease: A Chronological Journey" (Plenum, 1993).
        Dr. Evans's wife, the former Brigitte Kluge, died in 1986. He is survived by  two sons, John K., of Guilford, Conn., and Christopher P., of Houston; a daughter, Barbara Evans Paganelli of Shelburne, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      