
        Kenneth F. Montgomery, a Chicago lawyer who backed his belief in education by providing scholarships to several leading colleges and universities, died on Sunday at his home in Northbrook, Ill. He was 92.
        A beneficiary of an education financed by an uncle, Mr. Montgomery established scholarships at his alma mater, Dartmouth College, as well as at Harvard University, the University of Notre Dame and the Stanford University Law School.
        At Dartmouth in 1977, Mr. Montgomery and his wife, Harle, established Montgomery House, an institution intended to broaden the experience of students  by bringing in fellows from inside and outside the academic world. Among them were writers like John Cheever, Robert Penn Warren, Erskine Caldwell, Carlos Fuentes and Harrison Salisbury and political figures like Dean Rusk, Edward Heath and Gerald R. Ford.
        In 1981 Mr. Montgomery established a scholarship program that bears his name  at Dartmouth, providing financial aid to 10 to 12 students a year, and he donated money to buy books for the college library and for other college programs.
        He was particularly interested in providing opportunities for minority students and in encouraging law school graduates to pursue public interest careers.
        Mr. Montgomery, who graduated from Dartmouth in 1925 and received a law degree from Harvard in 1928, was a litigator who maintained an active practice with Wilson & McIlvaine, a Chicago firm, until the 1980's.
        He was a member of the Stanford Law Board of Visitors, a trustee of the Notre Dame Law School and a member of the advisory council of the Art Institute of Chicago.
        He was born in Apalachicola, Fla., on April 15, 1903. An uncle who had married the widow of the cereal magnate C. W. Post financed his education. Mr. Montgomery attended the Notre Dame Academy in South Bend, Ind., and the Culver Military Academy in Culver, Ind., before he entered Dartmouth, where he played center on the college's undefeated 1925 football team.
        Mr. Montgomery is survived by his wife; two children from a previous marriage, Henrietta Montgomery Heydon of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Kenneth H. Montgomery of Doniphan, Mo.; a stepson, Marvin Harris, also of Doniphan; a stepdaughter, Tyrell Dammann Edwards of San Diego; a granddaughter and a great-grandson.
      