
        George Iain Murray, the 10th Duke of Atholl, who was one of Scotland's richest landowners and the commander of of Britain's only private army, died yesterday at a hospital in Perth, Scotland.
        He was 64 and had suffered a stroke in December at Blair Castle, the family seat in the Perthshire highlands since 1269.
        The death of the 6-foot-5-inch Duke, known affectionately as Wee Iain, came  a day after it was announced that he had placed the 120-room castle and much of  the surrounding estate's 140,000 acres into a charitable trust, a step that will save millions in inheritance taxes and guarantee that the historic property will remain under Scottish control.
        Although the move followed reports that the Duke, a bachelor, had misgivings  about his dynastic heir, John Murray, a third cousin who lives in South Africa,  the estate issued a statement denying any family friction.
        Even so, when Mr. Murray, a 65-year-old retired land surveyor whose relationship to the Duke had only recently been discovered, visited the castle with his wife, Peggy, last year, the Duke refused to meet the couple.
        Afterward he said he would break with tradition by splitting the family seat  and leaving the estate and his private wealth to his 12-year-old half-nephew Robert Troughton rather than see the property fall into non-Scottish hands. He told associates he was worried that the Murrays viewed the estate as "a commercial proposition."
        Not that the Duke, who inherited the title and the estate from his third cousin in 1957, had been shy about cashing in on the estate's commercial possibilities.
        Under his stewardship the estate became one of Britain's most popular tourist attractions, drawing some 165,000 paying visitors a year.
        To help bolster its appeal the Duke had even reactivated the long-dormant Atholl Highlanders, an 80-man private army the Dukes of Atholl have been authorized to maintain since 1845. It seems that Queen Victoria, who had visited the castle the year before, had been so impressed by the outpouring of affection shown the sixth Duke by the local populace that she granted the right in perpertuity.
        For all its singular distinction, the army, whose officers have been limited  to local landowners and whose ranks are recruited from the estate work force, has strictly ceremonial duties.
        And although the Duke drew the line at greeting the castle's visitors personally, he appeared in full, highly photogenic kilted regalia during his army's annual parades. During the grouse season he was even more photogenic, the very picture of an archetypal country nobleman, complete with tweed jacket and Fair Isle sweater, a 12-gauge side-by-side Purdey shotgun under his arm and a black labrador at his heels.
        The Duke, whose title dates from 1703 and whose family motto is "Furth, Fortune and Fill the Fetters," has been listed as one of Britain's 200 richest people, with an estimated wealth of more than $200 million. The Duke had scoffed at such reports, declaring himself land poor.
        For all that, he was a successful businessman who was educated at Eton and Oxford and later served as chairman of the Westminster regional newspaper group  until his retirement in 1993.
        As Duke, he took his duties seriously, serving, among other things, as president of the National Trust for Scotland and captain of the House of Lords bridge team.
        One duty he did not pursue was producing an heir, although as a man perennially listed as Britain's most eligible bachelor he had plenty of opportunities to marry, some even more subtle than a public appeal in 1992 from  Lindi St. Clair, also known as Miss Whiplash and the self-styled founder of the  Corrective Party, who offered her services as "a concubine or wife within a marriage of convenience" to keep his line going.
        The commander of Britain's most photographed private army, who knew a publicity stunt when he saw one, did not respond.
        In addition to his half-nephew, he is survived by his half-sister, Sarah Troughton.
      