
        Morton Gould, an American composer whose long and fruitful career did much to erase the lines between between concert and popular idioms, died yesterday at a  hotel in Orlando, Fla. He was 82.
        Mr. Gould had been in Florida as the guest of the Disney Institute and was in the middle of a three-day tribute honoring his music. He had been present on Tuesday night at an all-Gould band-music concert played by the United States Military Academy Band and had been scheduled to conduct. But feeling ill, he was advised not to.
        Mr. Gould's many pieces for orchestra, piano, voice and various ensembles used the concert format to house the elements of jazz, pop, folk music and marching band. He wrote for Broadway, the movies, the ballet stage and television. His two Broadway musicals were "Billion Dollar Baby" (1945) and "Arms and the Girl" (1950), the first created in collaboration with Betty Comden and Adolph Green. Agnes de Mille, George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins choreographed ballets to such Gould compositions as "Fall River Legend," "Clarinade" and "I'm Old Fashioned," respectively.
        The two capstones of his career came in 1994 and 1995. He received a Kennedy  Center Honors Award from President Clinton in 1994 and the following year won the Pulitzer Prize in Music for "Stringmusic," a 30-minute work commissioned by  the National Symphony Orchestra as a tribute to its longtime leader, the cellist and conductor Mstislav Rostropovich.
        An elegant, busy and highly social man even in his later years, Mr. Gould was especially active in the business of music. He was president of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (Ascap) from 1986 to 1994 and had been on its board since 1959. Mr. Gould also played a significant part in the work of the American Symphony Orchestra League and served on the music panels of the National Endowment for the Arts in Washington. His skill as an arts administrator was a perfect mirror for the intelligent, hardheaded skills he brought to writing music.
        Indeed, Mr. Gould's music matched his life style: rhythmically profuse, filled with dynamic energy, and not afraid to incorporate American culture even  in its most blaring forms. Yet there is a sophisticated use of counterpoint and  meter, and an ease in the handling of such 20th-century procedures as Serialism. Mr. Gould tried very hard to embrace everything around him. If his music did not shake the modern soul to its roots, it was a clear and undistorted reflection of what it was to live in musical America in the last half of the 20th century.
        "I have always been and still am stimulated by the vernacular, by the sound of spirituals, jazz and the like," he once said. "Although I might venture into  more complicated abstractions, there is always present in one form or another at least the residue of those elements."
        Morton Gould was born in the Richmond Hill section of Queens, N.Y., in 1913.  His father, who was born in Vienna, was in the real estate business. His mother  was Russian. To the end of his life, he lived in Great Neck, L.I., only a few miles from his childhood home. As a small child Mr. Gould was fascinated by the  family's player-piano and tried to emulate the key motion with his own fingers.  On Armistice Day, 1918, he reproduced the tune of "Stars and Stripes Forever" at the piano without a mistake, signaling the musical talent that was quickly taken up and pursued with energy.
        Mr. Gould studied at the Institute of Musical Art (soon to become the Juilliard School) and pursued composition studies under Vincent Jones and piano  lessons with Abby Whiteside. He wrote his first piece at age 6, and was a busy piano recitalist in New York during his teen-age years. Those early concerts included improvisations based on themes suggested by people in the audience.
        He remained close to the instrument all his life. His "Two Pianos" was written for the Murray Dranoff Two-Piano Competition in Miami in 1987. His "Ghost Waltzes" was the required new-music piece at the 1989 Van Cliburn International Competition in Fort Worth. Mr. Gould attended the Fort Worth competition and was ready to demonstrate his music to competitors at the drop of a hat.
        His career was always firmly rooted in commercial endeavors rather than academic esoterica. From 1935 to 1942 he served as the composer, arranger and conductor for the Mutual Network radio station WOR, where he put on a weekly program of music. He provided similar services with such popular network shows as the "Cresta Blanca Carnaval" and "The Chrysler Hour." From these ventures came more than a few compositions, including "American Concertette" for piano and orchestra (later choreographed by Mr. Robbins) and the "Latin American Symphonette."
        Mr. Gould's success as a conductor was considerable. His Grammy Award in 1966 was for an Ives recording made with the Chicago Symphony. Other conductors performed his music as well: Arturo Toscanini, Leopold Stokowski, Georg Solti, Andre Previn, Leonard Slatkin, Eugene Ormandy and Arthur Fiedler.
        He said in later years how surprised he was that many of these pieces, not really intended as classical music, ended up in the symphonic repertory. "I wanted to share my music with others," he once said. "Communication was always terribly important to me." Over 100 long-playing records of his music appeared over the years, some now transferred to compact disk. The list of titles of his  major compositions occupies six pages of his Ascap biography and bear such titles as "Santa Fe Saga," "Holocaust Suite" and "Apple Waltzes."
        His administrative work did not slow down his performing and composing career. Mr. Gould answered a commission by the Pittsburgh Youth Orchestra with a piece for rap singer and orchestra called "The Jogger and the Dinosaur." It had  its premiere in 1993.
        Marilyn Bergman, the president of Ascap, said in Manhattan yesterday: "America has lost one of its most distinguished composers and conductors, and the creative community has lost one of its great leaders. His vigor and his spirit led us to believe that he would live forever and in fact -- through his music -- he will." According to the Disney Institute, the second all-Gould program last night in Orlando was to go on as planned.
        Mr. Gould is survived by two sons, Eric, of Great Neck, L.I., and David, of Port Washington, L.I.; two daughters, Deborah Gould of Brooklyn and Amy Burton of Plainview, L.I.; two brothers, Walter and Stanley, and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 23, 1996, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about the composer Morton Gould misstated the given name of a daughter. She is Abby Burton, not Amy.
      