
        Steven Slepack was as bright as anyone who ever came out of Brooklyn, and when he won a full science scholarship to the University of Hawaii he appeared well on his way to a successful career as a marine biologist.
        But for all his academic promise, Mr. Slepack wasn't cut out for college, or  for Hawaii. He took to strumming his banjo on the beach, reflecting on life, basking in the sun and soaking up the rebellious spirit of the 1960's.
        By the time he dropped out of school two years later and returned to New York, the trajectory of his life -- and the shape of his death -- had been set.
        When he died on Feb. 6 at his home outside Rochester, Vt., Mr. Slepack was 46 years old and had been suffering from melanoma for a year; his wife, Catlin Hill, said his doctors had traced the malignancy to his exposure to the Hawaiian sun.
        Although his wife said he attended Hunter College mainly as a way to avoid the draft, Mr. Slepack pursued education on his own and was uncommonly well read.
        "He knew everything," his wife said.
        And what does a man who knows everything do with his life?
        For one thing, he keeps convention at bay, becoming a career street performer, first as a banjo player and eventually, when he sought more interaction with his audience, as Professor Bendeasy, one of New York's most visible and colorful entertainers for two decades. He was the man in the beribboned tuxedo jacket who delighted a generation of schoolchildren by twisting balloons into animals in Central Park and elsewhere.
        A strong, powerfully built man who could blow up one of his elongated balloons with a single breath (and never had to pay the $100 he promised to anyone who could match him), Mr. Slepack, who worked to the beat of 1920's jazz  playing on his tape deck, could turn a balloon into an exotic bird or animal within seconds.
        In the 1970's, he made an extended trip to San Francisco, where he taught his craft to a nightclub comedian named Steve Martin. But although he worked as far  away as Paris, Mr. Slepack was always drawn back to New York. On summer weekends, he could be found at the "Alice in Wonderland" statue in Central Park. During the Christmas season, he would stand in front of F.A.O. Schwarz on Fifth  Avenue.
        On certain matters, the man who knows everything bides his time, as became apparent on St. Mark's Place one January day in 1990, when Mr. Slepack, an exotic-car buff, was sitting in the side bay of his personal ambulance beneath a hand-printed sign advertising old tapes for sale.
        When a young woman who had noticed him on her way to do her laundry stopped on her way back and asked what he was doing, he told her he had been on a round-the-world search to find the girl of his dreams.
        He was 40 and she was only 20, but he sensed her spirit was as free as his.
        "Ten minutes after we met," Ms. Hill said, "he asked me to be his partner."
        By the time they married, she had become Princess Oulala, a name more suggestive than her comparatively demure costume of tuxedo jacket and harlequin  tights, and she had learned that for all the pleasure of delighting children, twisting balloons can be hard work. After spending eight hours in front of F.A.O. Schwarz on a cold December day, she said, "my hands would feel like they  were 90."
        At $1 a balloon, the couple could make enough in a couple of days to last them for weeks.
        So what does the man who knows everything do on his days off?
        "We'd stay at home," his wife said, "and listen to music."
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Slepack is survived by his mother, Gloria Sterling, a former belly dancer, and his grandmother, Anna Lapidus, both of Brighton Beach.
      