
        Frank J. Remington, a University of Wisconsin law professor who made his classroom the pivot point of a far-reaching legal career that ranged from revising the nation's criminal laws to keeping college athletic programs honest, died on Friday at his home in Madison. He was 73.
        His wife, Susan, said the cause was cancer.
        For someone who spent his entire 46-year professional career as a full-time  teacher in Madison, Mr. Remington, a native of Schenectady, N.Y., who received both his undergraduate and law degrees from Wisconsin, logged at lot of air miles.
        That was because as one of the nation's leading experts on criminal codes and court procedures, he was forever being summoned to Washington to run or serve on high-level Government and professional committees.
        Indeed, from the moment he joined the faculty in 1949 and was put in charge of an ambitious program to modernize Wisconsin's criminal statutes until his retirement in 1992, Mr. Remington was in the forefront of legal reform.
        Among other things, he spent 23 years as a member of the Supreme Court's Advisory Committee on Federal Rules and Procedures, directed a landmark 1961 study of criminal justice administration for the American Bar Foundation and ran an American Bar Association project to develop standards for the police. He was  also a consultant to the President's Commission on Law Enforcement under Lyndon  B. Johnson and to the Kerner Commission on Civil Disorders in 1968.
        Mr. Remington's career at Wisconsin began as an accident. As a high school senior, his wife recalled yesterday, her husband had narrowed his college choices to Michigan and Wisconsin, when an act of clumsiness settled the issue.
        "He spilled ink on the Michigan application," she said. "The Wisconsin application was clean, so he sent it off."
        Mr. Remington, who left college to spend two years as a C-47 pilot flying the hump over Burma from India to China during World War II, did not even decide on  a legal career until he returned to school after the war and settled with his wife and baby in run-down married students' quarters on the outskirts of Madison known as Beaver Village.
        During the daily bus rides between the village and the campus, his wife recalled, his fellow students became so impressed with the precision of his intelligence that they told him he ought to go to law school.
        Joining the faculty upon his graduation in 1949, he became known as an inspiring and innovative classroom teacher who established a continuing program  in which Wisconsin students get hands-on experience representing institutionalized clients.
        The wide-ranging pattern of his career was set at the start when he was put in charge of what turned out to be a six-year project to rethink and reorganize  Wisconsin's jumbled system of criminal laws.
        As the nation's first such project, his work became a model for similar efforts by other states and the Federal Government and made Mr. Remington a star in the field.
        In short order, he was asked to help put together the American Law Institute's Model Penal Code, which is still considered a national benchmark, and named director of the American Bar Foundation study, whose 1961 report established the national agenda for improving the criminal justice system by focusing on the day-to-day administration of the system outside the courtroom.
        Yet for all the significant work he did for presidents and chief justices, Mr. Remington, Wisconsin's perennial faculty representative to the Big Ten and the National Collegiate Athletic Association, gained his widest public recognition as a member of the N.C.A.A.'s committee on infractions.
        As chairman of the committee during a virtual epidemic of rules violations by athletic departments, Mr. Remington helped make sports headlines in 1987 when the committee unanimously rejected staff recommendations for lenient sanctions against the Southern Methodist University football program, which had been found guilty of a second round of major infractions within five years.
        Instead, the committee shocked Texas and the world of collegiate athletics by imposing the first so-called "death penalty" on an athletic program, forcing S.M.U. to abandon football altogether for the 1987 season and allowing the perennial powerhouse to revive the sport only under severe restrictions.
        "Our purpose was to send a very strong message," Mr. Remington said at the time. "S.M.U. says it wants to build a program gradually and now it has the chance."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Ann Holdahl of Minneapolis; five sons, Michael, of Arlington, Va., James, of New Richmond, Wisc., Thomas, of Columbia, Md., and Patrick and Frank, both of Madison; a sister, Ann Bowers of Madison, and 20 grandchildren.
      