
        Gustave Solomon, a mathematician whose work was important in the world of digital information, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 65 and had lived in the Los Angeles area since 1961.
        His death was reported to The Times on Thursday by his brother Julius Solomon, who said that the cause was not known but that it was evidently heart related.
        Dr. Gustave Solomon was a co-inventor, with Irving S. Reed, of what are known as the Reed-Solomon codes. They are used to purge errors from digital information in data storage and communications systems.
        The codes were invented in 1960, when both men were working at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, a federally financed research laboratory in Lincoln, Mass., said Prof. Julius Solomon, who teaches physics at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
        Dr. Gustave Solomon spent most of his career in research laboratories. He was a senior scientist with the Hughes Aircraft Company in California from 1987 until retiring several years ago.
        A co-worker and friend of Dr. Solomon, Robert McEliece, who is a professor of electrical engineering at the California Institute of Technology, said: "The Reed-Solomon codes are used in correcting errors that crop up in either the transmission of or the storage of information in digital systems -- that is, systems that record information by using widely varied sequences of zeros and ones. Over the years, the codes have come into increasingly widespread use as a  way of combatting the inevitable errors that occur in the transmission and storage of information."
        The codes have come to be used on board the Voyager and Galileo space craft,  Professor McEliece said, and also in compact disks, in digital audiotapes and in the advanced televisions systems that are known as high-definition television systems.
        Professor Julius Solomon said that his brother Gustave also did early work, in the late 1950's and early 1960's, concerning the algebraic theory of error-correcting codes. And Gustave Solomon and H. F. Mattson, now on the faculty of Syracuse University, were the co-authors of a 1961 article in a mathematical journal that introduced what has been called a powerful tool for analyzing error-correcting codes and is known as the Mattson-Solomon polynomial.
        Dr. Solomon remained active in research about coding from 1957 until his death. His other interests included composing popular songs and folksongs and teaching voice and movement
        Gustave Solomon was born in Brooklyn, the son of Philip and Mollie Solomon. He graduated from Talmudical Academy High School of Manhattan and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Yeshiva University in 1951 and a doctorate, also in mathematics, from M.I.T. in 1956.
        He taught mathematics at Boston and Johns Hopkins Universities in the late 1950's and was on the staff of the Lincoln Laboratory from 1957 to 1961. In later years he also worked at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and for TRW Systems, both in the Los Angeles area. Over the years, he was also a visiting or adjunct  professor at the University of California at Berkeley and at Los Angeles and Cal Tech and was a consultant to the Jet Propulsion laboratory from 1990 to 1995.
        In addition to his brother Julius, Gustave Solomon is survived by a daughter, Grace of Phoenix, Ariz. and another brother, Alex of Queens.
      