
        Ernest Samuels, whose monumental prize-winning biography of Henry Adams was hailed as a model of painstaking scholarship and subtle interpretation, died on  Monday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 92.
        The massively researched, revisionist biography by Mr. Samuels, a literary scholar, presented Adams as a fully engaged participant in the great events of his time rather than as the detached, ironic narrator of "The Education of Henry Adams," an autobiography.
        Mr. Samuels's biography was published by Harvard University Press in three volumes: "The Young Henry Adams" (1948), "Henry Adams: The Middle Years ' (1958) and the Pulitzer Prize-winning "Henry Adams: The Major Phase" (1964). A one-volume abridged version was published in 1989.
        "No great writer was more skilled in concealments and disguises than Henry Adams," L. H. Butterfield wrote in a review of "The Middle Years" in the New York Times Book Review, "but in Ernest Samuels he has found an interpreter equally resourceful in penetrating the disguises he invented."
        Leo Marx, review'ng "The Major Phase" in The Nation, wrote: "Professor Samuels fulfills all of his scholarly obligations without smothering the subject. The astonishing result is an engrossing book, with the man in it: cold, arrogant, tough, irascible, egocentric, sentimental, brilliant Henry Adams."
        "The Middle Years" was awarded the Francis Parkman Prize by the Society of American Historians and the Bancroft prize by Columbia University. "The Major Phase," which was nominated for the Pul'tzer Prize by the eminent historians Henry Steele Commager and John Barkham, was awarded the Pulitzer by a unanimous  vote of the biography jury and of the Pulitzer advisory board.
        Mr. Samuels was born in Chicago and earned a bachelor's degree in 1923 and a  law degree in 1926 at the University of Chicago. After practicing law in El Paso, Tex., from 1928 to 1930, he returned to the University of Chicago and earned a master's degree in English in 1931. He practiced law in Chicago from 1933 to 1937 and from 1937 to 1939 was an English instructor at the State College of Washington (now Washington State University) in Pullman.
        After earning a doctorate in English from the University of Chicago in 1942,  he began teaching at Northwestern University, where he was the Franklyn Bliss Snyder Professor of English. He served as department chairman from 1964 to 1966  and retired in 1971.
        Henry Adams was the subject of the bulk of Mr. Samuels's scholarly work. In addition to writing prefaces and 'ntroductions to such works by Adams as "Mont-St.-Michel and Chartres" (1961), "Democracy" (1961) and "The Education of Henry Adams" (1974), he served on the advisory committee for the publication  of the Henry Adams papers and helped edit the collected letters in three volumes. A one-volume abridgement of the letters was published in 1992.
        In 1956, Mr. Samuels traveled to Italy to meet with the art connoisseur Bernard Berenson, who owned letters written by Adams. Berenson, then 91, died soon after, and his estate asked Mr. Samuels to write an authorized biography in two volumes. "Bernard Berenson: The Making of a Connoisseur," which was published in 1979, was nominated for a National Book Award.
        The companion volume, "Bernard Berenson: The Making of a Legend," followed in 1087. Written with Mr. Samuels's wife, Jayne Newcomer Samuels, it appeared at a  time when Berenson was under attack, accused of profiting by falsely authenticating Old Master paintings. Mr. Samuels proved to the satisfaction of most scholars that Berenson did well for himself in the art market but did not knowingly issue false opinions.
        Mr. Samuels served on the Commission of Scholars of the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 1966 to 1971 and on the Council of Scholars at the Library of Congress from 1979 to 1980.
        He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Susanna Samuels Epp and Elizabeth; a son, Jonathan; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      