
        Evan Jones, a food writer who fell in love twice in Paris, finding both a career and a companion during a single extended sojourn after World War II, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80.
        His wife, Judith, said the cause was injuries suffered in a fall at his Manhattan apartment.
        Mr. Jones, whose last book, "Epicurean Delight," a biography of James Beard, was published in 1990, was a Minnesota native whose family had been editing and  publishing newspapers for generations.
        After growing up in Minneapolis while his father was editing The St. Paul Dispatch, he passed up college to work on a series of family and other newspapers until he landed on the wartime staff of the military newspaper Stars  and Stripes.
        Staying on in Paris after the war, he was publishing a weekly magazine aimed  at American tourists when he received a visit that would change his life.
        "I knocked on his door looking for a job," the former Judith Bailey of Vermont said yesterday, pinpointing the date as Dec. 10, 1948.
        If it was not love at first sight, it was close. Mr. Jones and Miss Bailey not only fell in love, they helped each other discover the joys of French cuisine, married and more or less ate happily ever after.
        Indeed, by the time they were married in Vienna in 1951, they had begun a double love affair with each other and with food.
        "There's something about Paris," Mrs. Jones said, acknowledging that her husband had not quite been prepared for the subtle appeal of the culinary delights they discovered there together.
        Mr. Jones, after all, had grown up on his mother's Welsh cooking, a plain leek-and-potatoes cuisine he once celebrated in an article in The New York Times, but not to the extent it triggered a trendy new restaurant rage.
        Too poor to become regulars at the three-star restaurants of Paris, the couple haunted the city's food stalls and markets, shopping for the ingredients  of the home-cooked meals that became a staple of their married life in New York  and at their summer home in Vermont.
        Returning to the United States and settling in New York, Mrs. Jones became an editor at Knopf, working with authors ranging from John Updike to Julia Child and Mr. Beard, while Mr. Jones pursued a freelance writing career. He turned out magazine articles on a variety of subjects, wrote a few Minnesota histories, collaborated with an archaeologist, Roland Wells Robins, on a 1969 book, "Hidden America," and edited "The Father," a 1960 anthology of letters from famous men to their sons and daughters.
        But with his wife rapidly gaining a reputation as "the Julia Child of cookbook editors" and with their own jointly cooked meals becoming such a New York institution that the critic Stanley Kauffmann once described their East 66th Street apartment as "the best restaurant in New York," Mr. Jones focused his writing increasingly on food.
        His "American Food; The Gastronomic Story" (1975) has been credited with helping to fuel a resurgence of American cuisine. "The World of Cheese" (1976) is considered a definitive work, and "The Book of Bread," written with his wife, is regarded as one of the major explorations of a well-kneaded field.
        For all his research and writing about food, Mr. Jones seemed most at home in the kitchen. When he would be away, presumably writing, at their summer home in  Vermont, Mrs. Jones would sometimes arrive for a weekend to find that her husband had spent his time preparing a dozen dishes for her to savor.
        In New York, where they cooked in tandem or in turn, they became famous for the meals they served to friends, including such redoubtable figures as Miss Child and Mr. Beard -- guests, Mrs. Jones said, who were not quite so intimidating to her and her husband as might be imagined.
        "People like that love food," she said. "It's more intimidating to cook for picky eaters."
        At the time of his death, Mrs. Jones said, her husband had moved well beyond  bread and cheese and was exploring the world of curries.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters from a previous marriage, Bronwyn Dunne of Cos Cob, Conn., and Pamela Knopp of White Plains; two adopted children, Audrey Bierman of Grinnell, Iowa, and John Christopher Vandercook of Honolulu; a sister, Gwenyth Spitz of St. Paul; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      