
        Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, the former Governor of California who fathered the state's modern economic boom with expansive government programs to build freeways, vast water systems and public universities open to all at low cost, died on Friday at his home here. He was 90.
        Mr. Brown died of a heart attack, but had been ill for some time, said a granddaughter, Kathleen Kelly.
        The burly and ebullient Mr. Brown, a Democrat, served two terms as Governor, from 1959 until 1967, turning back a challenge from former Vice President Richard M. Nixon in 1962. But a growing conservative mood and divisiveness within his own party over student unrest and the Vietnam War led to his defeat by a conservative Republican, Ronald Reagan, in 1966. The election effectively ended nearly a quarter of a century of public service for Mr. Brown and inaugurated a national political career for the former actor.
        Mr. Brown's death comes as California is struggling to recover from a post-cold-war recession that has resulted in the paring back of many social programs he helped create.
        As Governor, Mr. Brown symbolized better times in California, times that the  historian Kevin Starr described as "an exhilarating period in which California assembled itself as the cutting edge of the American experiment."
        Prof. Bruce E. Cain, associate director of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California at Berkeley, said of Mr. Brown: "He was  part of an era when growth was considered a good thing, when we could afford public services that would encourage people to come to California, to add to the tax base. Everything then had a golden aura to it."
        In addition, Mr. Brown left a considerable personal political legacy. His only son, Edmund G. (Jerry) Brown Jr., also served two terms as Governor of California and ran for President in 1976, 1980 and 1992. But the younger Mr. Brown's philosophy of diminished expectations seemed directly at odds with his father's.
        Mr. Brown's youngest child, Kathleen Brown, was the Treasurer of California and ran unsuccessfully for Governor in 1994 against the Republican incumbent, Pete Wilson.
        As Governor, Mr. Brown epitomized an era when the American public seemed to have had a greater trust in its leaders to do the right thing, and in the capacity of government to shape the future. He came into office when the California economy was slumping after the Korean War, but the state's population was growing relentlessly.
        He called for more, not less, government spending -- for transportation, parks, schools and reclamation projects. Two decades of unparalleled growth and  prosperity followed.
        Mr. Brown, a Roman Catholic, was a gregarious, plain-spoken man known for his advocacy of progressive and populist causes in general and for his strong opposition to the death penalty in particular. In the late 1950's, some Democrats thought he might make a good Presidential candidate, but his political career ended with his loss to Mr. Reagan in 1966.
        Despite that defeat, Mr. Brown remained active, both as a lawyer and an author, producing two books that were sharply critical of Mr. Reagan's performance as Governor. In another book, he condemned the death penalty as barbaric.
        Mr. Brown agonized and equivocated over the death penalty when he was Governor. He ruled on 59 last-ditch appeals from condemned convicts, commuting the sentences of 23 but allowing 36 to go to the gas chamber.
        One who was executed was Caryl Chessman, the "red light bandit" who had robbed and sexually assaulted women on lonely mountain roads. With self-taught legal skills, Mr. Chessman staved off execution for more than a dozen years. Governor Brown at first stayed the execution several times, but finally let it proceed in 1960.
        Mr. Brown, however, ultimately grew to loathe capital punishment. "The naked, simple fact is that the death penalty has been a gross failure," he wrote. "Beyond its horror and incivility, it has neither protected the innocent nor deterred the wicked." He said he felt it was punishment primarily inflicted on "the weak, the poor, the ignorant."
        As Governor, Mr. Brown oversaw the creation of a state commission on fair employment practices and the passage of two fair-housing laws, pushed the development of expanded water supplies for Southern California and worked for the creation of jobs outside the military industry.
        Under his administration the state produced its Master Plan for Higher Education, a landmark document that plotted the expansion of California's college system. During his eight years as Governor, the University of California added three new campuses and the state college system added six.
        He also increased benefits for the unemployed, the blind and the elderly. And in this quintessential automobile state he was instrumental in the construction  of 1,000 miles of freeways.
        Edmund Gerald Brown was born in San Francisco on April 21, 1905, the son of Edmund Joseph and Ida Schuckman Brown. He was one of four children born to a businessman father who had moved to California in the wake of the gold rush -- not to mine gold, but to mine Californians' yearning for cigars, photo arcades,  nickelodeons and shooting galleries. The elder Mr. Brown was Catholic, his wife  Protestant, and their son's early years were filled with their spirited discussions about religion.
        Eddie Brown went to a Catholic school, and it was there, as a 12-year-old orator at a World War I Liberty Bond rally, that he ended his speech with Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty or give me death." Classmates began calling him Patrick Henry Brown. The shortened name Pat stuck through the rest of his academic and political careers.
        At Lowell High School, Pat Brown gave ample evidence of what was to come, running for 11 student offices and winning each time. But he lacked the money to attend college, so he went to work in his father's cigar store after high school and studied law at night. In 1927 he received a law degree from the San Francisco College of Law.
        Although he was identified with the progressive wing of the Democratic Party  for most of his life, Mr. Brown started his political career as a Republican, losing a campaign for a seat in the State Assembly in 1928. Four years later he  changed to the Democratic Party, but his political fortunes did not immediately  improve; in 1939 he ran unsuccessfully for District Attorney of San Francisco.
        In 1940 he worked hard for the re-election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Mr. Brown served as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention  that year; it was a role he continued to fill until the 1960's.
        In 1943, Mr. Brown was elected District Attorney in San Francisco. He held that post until 1950, when he became Attorney General of California. He made his reputation in that post by investigating the scandal-ridden State Liquor Administration.
        In 1958 he ran for governor against William F. Knowland, a right-wing Republican who had resigned from the United States Senate to make the race. Mr.  Brown won by more than a million votes out of nearly five million cast.
        Governor Brown once described his politics as "liberal and responsible" and as "reasonable, rational and realistic." He was very much a part of the bipartisan era of California politics, and shared the philosophy of one of his progressive Republican predecessors, Earl Warren, later Chief Justice of the United States.
        "One had a suspicion Earl Warren was happy to see Pat Brown as Governor," said Mr. Starr, the historian, who is now the state librarian of California.
        The high point of Mr. Brown's first term was probably the enactment in 1960 of the Master Plan for Higher Education, the cornerstone for the three-tiered system of more than 100 public colleges in California.
        He also oversaw the beginning of the State Water Project, a huge system of dams and aqueducts that to this day provides irrigation for Southern California  and makes the state's agricultural production the largest in the nation.
        In 1962, after a bitter election campaign, Mr. Brown defeated Mr. Nixon by nearly 300,000 votes out of the more than 5.6 million cast. The defeat led Mr. Nixon to blurt his famous remark to reporters, "You won't have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore."
        In 1966 Mr. Brown was upset in his bid for a third term by Mr. Reagan, then a political novice, who won by more than 900,000 votes out of six million cast.
        Mr. Brown's loss came at a time of tumultuous civil unrest. The Watts section of Los Angeles still simmered after the racial riots there in 1965, and opposition to the Vietnam War was growing, particularly among young people. Some political analysts ascribed the defeat to a white backlash vote coupled with mounting voter concern over antiwar demonstrations at Berkeley and other campuses.
        Many voters thought that the Governor had been too slow to move against the students and that Mr. Reagan, a hard-line conservative, would be better able to  deal with them. Mr. Starr said Mr. Brown once told him that his political demise was rooted in his handling of the Chessman execution. In one of his last acts as Governor, he spared the lives of four condemned murderers.
        Although he often seemed bumbling in public appearances, Mr. Brown was regarded by many Californians, Republicans as well as Democrats, as both a builder and a decent man.
        "He was a builder, one of the governors responsible for laying the foundation that allowed California to take off the way it did," said Steven A. Merksamer, who was chief of staff to former Gov. George Deukmejian, a Republican.
        Mr. Brown was honored by a special session of the State Legislature in 1992.  But because of his failing health, he rarely appeared in public after that.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, the former Bernice Layne, whom he married  in 1930. Besides his son, Edmund Jr., and daughter Kathleen, he is survived by two other daughters, Barbara Brown Casey and Cynthia Brown Kelly.
      