
        John F. Pfeiffer, an executive producer at RCA Red Seal who recorded many of  the great classical musicians of the century during a 47-year career, died on Thursday at his office in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        Marilyn Egol, a spokeswoman for RCA, said that the cause was a heart attack.
        One of the last producers from a time now regarded as a golden age of recorded music, Mr. Pfeiffer was a genial man with an encyclopedic command of the history of recording and of the performing world, past and present. A producer who cared deeply about capturing a performance with a realistic sonic perspective, he also developed the diplomatic skills necessary to coax great performances from famous and sometimes temperamental artists who were not always comfortable before the microphones.
        Among Mr. Pfeiffer's productions were classic recordings by the violinist Jascha Heifetz, the pianists Vladimir Horowitz, Artur Rubinstein and Van Cliburn, the harpsichordist Wanda Landowska, the soprano Leontyne Price and the  conductors Arturo Toscanini, Fritz Reiner, Leopold Stokowski, Eugene Ormandy and Charles Munch.
        "Somehow I always managed to give the artists the feeling I was on their side," he said in an interview with Audio magazine in 1992, "that I was doing everything I could to help them do phat they did best. It was my job to translate that onto a phonograph record, not to tell them how or what to do."
        In recent years, he oversaw the remastering for compact disk of dozens of historic recordings, many of which he had produced originally. His reissues of the complete recordings of Toscanini, Sergei Rachmaninoff and Jascha Heifetz have been critically praised and have won several awards. The Heifetz Collection, reissued last year, is a nominee for a Grammy award in the historical category.
        He also continued recording current artists, including the mezzo-sopranos Marilyn Horne and Frederica von Stade, and Xiang-Dong Kong, a young Chinese pianist.
        Mr. Pfeiffer was born in Tucson, Ariz., on Sept. 29, 1920. He studied music and engineering at the University of Arizona and Bethany College in Lindsborg, Kans. After naval service during World War II, he moved to New York, where he attended Columbia University and worked as a jazz pianist before joining RCA in  1949.
        His first job with the company was on the technical side, as a design engineer. He worked on teams that developed stereo and quadraphonic recording techniques, and coordinated RCA's entry into the world of digital recording in the late 1970's. He was also a composer and combined his interests in music and engineering in "Electronomusic," an album of his own experimental electronic music that he recorded for RCA in 1968.
        In addition to his recording work, Mr. Pfeiffer was the audio producer for several televised classical music programs, including "Heifetz on Television," for CBS; "Horowitz Live," for NBC; the White House concerts by Horowitz, the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich and the soprano Leontyne Price, as well as installments of "Live From Lincoln Center" and "Live From the Met."
        He is survived by a half-brother, Leslie Wolf; two grandsons and two great-grandsons.
      