
        Roman Smoluchowski, a physicist who studied structures as small as atoms and  as large as planets, died on Jan. 12 in Austin, Tex., where he was an emeritus professor at the University of Texas. He was 85.
        As a professor of solid-state physics, first at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and then at Princeton University, Dr. Smoluchowski concentrated on understanding the structure of atoms, metals and crystal lattices. But late in his career at Princeton, and then, after 1978, at Texas, he changed his focus to much larger structures, notably planets and other celestial objects like dust rings.
        The switch was not so surprising, said William Cochran, a research scientist at the McDonald Observatory of the University of Texas who knew Dr. Smoluchowski at Princeton as well.
        "As a solid-state physicist, he was trying to understand how different materials interact on a microscopic scale," Dr. Cochran said. "He realized that  a lot of the applications of this were in the field of astrophysics."
        In studying the interior structure of a large planet like Jupiter, for example, "what you have to worry about is how atoms and molecules interact under conditions of high temperature and pressure," Dr. Cochran said.
        Dr. Smoluchowski was born in Zakopane, Austria-Hungary, and received a master's degree from the University of Warsaw in 1933 and a doctorate from the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, in 1935. He was a research associate at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton in 1935 and 1936.
        His father was a physicist in Europe and had known Albert Einstein quite well, said Dr. Smoluchowski's wife, Louise. So when the younger physicist showed up at Princeton, he called on the great man.
        "He was very nervous, but his mother said he must" introduce himself, Mrs. Smoluchowski recalled yesterday. "Einstein said, 'Come on, sit down and tell me  what you think of quantum mechanics.' Roman was nonplused."
        Dr. Smoluchowski was teaching in Warsaw in 1939 at the outbreak of World War  II, and escaped with the help of two members of the Jewish underground, his wife said. Princeton offered him a position, enabling him to come to the United States. Later, he did war research at the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y.
        Dr. Smoluchowski published more than 300 scholarly articles and served on advisory boards for the Defense Department and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He was involved in studying the structure of the moon's surface during the Apollo lunar missions.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Peter, of Minneapolis; a daughter, Irena, of Florence, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      