
        Mitchell Rogovin, a Washington lawyer who moved deftly in the highest levels  of Government and politics yet remained an advocate of openness and accountability for public officials, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 65.
        Mr. Rogovin, who lived in the capital, died after a stroke, said his wife of  42 years, Sheila.
        Mr. Rogovin's clients in Government were numerous and impossible to categorize easily, as he was. He was special counsel to the Central Intelligence Agency in 1975 and 1976 and had been chief counsel to the Internal Revenue Service a decade before that.
        He was general counsel for Common Cause from 1970 to 1975, a period in which  he was also co-chairman of the Council for Public Interest Law, and he was a longtime director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.
        He was general counsel to Representative John B. Anderson's Presidential campaign in 1980, and for the last 13 years he served on the governing council of the Wilderness Society -- no surprise to those who knew how much he enjoyed fly-fishing vacations to Idaho.
        Mr. Rogovin was a noted civil liberties lawyer and represented Neil Sheehan,  a reporter for The New York Times who wrote the 1971 Pentagon Papers series, which explored a secret Government history of how the United States became involved in the Vietnam War.
        When the Federal Government went to court to halt publication of the series,  Mr. Sheehan recalled last night, the management of The Times advised him to retain his own lawyer in case the Federal authorities went after him personally.
        The choice was easy, Mr. Sheehan said: Mr. Rogovin was his good friend and neighbor. And Mr. Sheehan soon needed his own lawyer. While The Times and the Government were dueling over publication of the series (The Times eventually prevailed), the Justice Department was investigating Mr. Sheehan through a Federal grand jury in Boston.
        Mr. Rogovin took an aggressive stance with the grand jury, even considering whether to present evidence of the lack of criminality in Mr. Sheehan's actions. Eventually, the threat of indictment evaporated. (The Times paid Mr. Sheehan's legal bills.)
        Advising the Director of Central Intelligence, William E. Colby, while the intelligence agency was the subject of a Congressional inquiry in the 1970's, Mr. Rogovin reportedly suggested behind the scenes that the agency would get in  less trouble if it stuck to the rules of the spy game and adopted stricter controls.
        In 1973, as counsel to Common Cause, he filed a contempt-of-court motion in an effort to force officials of President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 campaign to disclose financial documents linked to the campaign. He voiced outrage when it was revealed that some documents had been destroyed.
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Rogovin was hired as special counsel to a Congressional panel investigating possible abuses in the Civil Service Commission.
        Mr. Rogovin headed a special committee appointed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to investigate the 1979 nuclear accident at Three Mile Island near Harrisburg, Pa. The panel concluded that the crippled reactor had come perilously close to a meltdown. It recommended that reactors be built at least 10 miles from population centers.
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Rogovin represented Indians who, he contended, had been short-changed by oil companies on royalties for leasing their land in Wyoming.
        Mr. Rogovin, a native of New York City, once explained his fascination with the law in Washington this way: "My theory is that if you sell shoes in Washington, the size of the feet are the same as in Peoria. But the legal problems here are distinctive."
        Mr. Rogovin graduated from Syracuse University in 1951 and studied law at the University of Virginia and the Georgetown University Law Center. Beginning in the late 1950's, he served in various posts in the Internal Revenue Service, then became a partner in the firm of Arnold & Porter.
        He was a founding partner in the firm of Rogovin Stern & Huge. He retired from practice last year.
        Surviving besides his wife are a son, John, of Washington; two daughters, Lisa Lindon of Hong Kong and Wendy, of New York City; a sister, Lois Cole of Phoenix, and two granddaughters.
      