
        Borden R. Putnam, New Jersey's first Commissioner of Commerce and Economic Development and a pivotal figure in the state's economic growth during the 1980's, died on Monday at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 73.
        The cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease and recent surgery, according to his son, Borden Putnam 3d of Half Moon Bay, Calif.
        From 1982 to 1990, in the administration of Gov. Thomas H. Kean, Mr. Putnam  played a major role in shifting New Jersey's economic base from manufacturing to services and high technology.
        "He presided over the largest growth in the state's history -- three quarters of a million jobs from the time I was sworn in as Governor till the time I left," said Mr. Kean, who is now the president of Drew University in Madison, N.J. "A lot of the corporations who came told me afterward that the kinds of efforts Borden Putnam made were directly responsible for their decision to locate in New Jersey. In other words, there are a number of people who have jobs today in New Jersey who really owe their thanks to Borden Putnam."
        Guiding initiatives sponsored by his department, Mr. Putnam was instrumental  in forming the New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology. He served as chairman of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, the Corporation for Business Assistance, the Urban Enterprise Zone Authority, the Port Authority of  New York and New Jersey Development Advisory Committee and the Governor's Advisory Council on Minority Business Development.
        In an interview in 1989, a year before his retirement, Mr. Putnam said he was hard pressed to enumerate the principal accomplishments of his office, but he pointed to three: "The development of our urban centers, our tourism commercials and our efforts in promoting international trade."
        He said: "I start with our urban centers, because it is here that we have developed financial programs to help minorities find jobs and enjoy the benefits that go with employment. Remember, it's financial programs that move the world."
        He added that the "New Jersey and You, Perfect Together" travel and tourism campaign had brought business into the state. "Although the ads are aimed at promoting tourism, they are seen by business people looking for a place to locate a plant or an office who start to think New Jersey might be a good place  to make a capital investment," Mr. Putnam said.
        With regard to international trade, he pointed out that New Jersey was 10th in the nation in gross dollars earned in international trade and seventh in the  foreign investment it was attracting. He noted that the state had opened an office in Tokyo and was considering opening others. New Jersey now has offices in London and Israel.
        Mr. Putnam came to state administration from two of New Jersey's major industries, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. A chemical engineer by education, he  worked for the American Cyanamid Company of Wayne, N.J., for 35 years and was a  senior vice president and member of the board when he retired in 1982 to join the Kean administration.
        Mr. Putnam began his career with Cyanamid in 1947 as a chemical engineer, and served in various managerial posts with Cyanamid until 1965, when he was appointed assistant general manager of its Lederle Laboratories Division. He became general manager in 1968 and a vice president in 1971.
        After his retirement from state administration, Mr. Putnam served on the boards of Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., Montclair State College, the Silicon Technology Corporation of Oakland, N.J., and the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark.
        Mr. Putnam, who was born in Washington, grew up in the Jackson Heights section of Queens and graduated in 1943 from Princeton, where he received a bachelor of science degree and a master's degree in chemical engineering.
        During World War II, he was a Navy lieutenant (junior grade) in the Pacific.
        Mr. Putnam's wife of 43 years, the former Jean Mason Woodside, died on Jan. 23. Besides his son, Mr. Putnam is survived by two daughters, Ashley Putnam of Piedmont, Calif., and Andrea Orchard of Middletown, N.J.; a sister, Mary Follette of Metuchen, N.J., his stepmother, Frances Wisenant Putnam of Plymouth, N.H., and seven grandchildren.
      