
        Pierre Verger, a worldly Parisian-born photographer whose quest for the natural life led him to an unlikely paradise in northeastern Brazil, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Salvador, the capital of the coastal Bahia state, where he was at once a renowned authority on the cultural links with Africa and a revered religious figure. He was 93.
        In the years since he first came to Bahia in 1946 and became enchanted with the descendants of African slaves he found there, Mr. Verger had transformed himself from a roaming photographer into a scholar so obsessed with the local culture and religion that he spent 17 years studying their origins in Africa.
        Mr. Verger, who became fluent in the Yoruba language, even managed to penetrate the mysterious Yoruban religious cults to the point that he was initiated into the priesthood in Dahomey, now Benin, becoming a babalao, or father of secrets, in the voodoo cult known in Brazil as candomble.
        As the only babalao in Brazil, Mr. Verger, who was given the name Fatumbi (reborn), was venerated by the people of Bahia even as he gained scholarly renown by publishing a series of works, including a book on the African-Brazilian slave trade that illuminated and explored the common threads of African and black Brazilian culture.
        For Mr. Verger, the quest had been a long trip home.
        Mr. Verger, whose family owned a prosperous printing business in Paris, was born in the stylish 16th arrondissement. Despite a growing disenchantment with what he saw as an over-refined materialism, for a while in his 20's he became the apotheosis of all he later deplored, living the life of a consummate dandy and even embracing the view that nothing was more important than whether one's calling cards were engraved or merely printed.
        Finally rejecting such absurdity with a vengeance, Mr. Verger, who had begun  taking pictures during a visit to Corsica, sailed for Tahiti in 1932, and with Gauguin as his guiding star sought the South Seas paradise.
        For all the tropical delights and the charms of the Polynesian women, Mr. Verger found distressing signs of civilized encroachment. After he visited the remote island of Bora Bora and found a calendar printed by his family company hanging in a hut, he abandoned his quest and returned to Paris.
        There a chance visit to the Bal Negre left him so enchanted with the joyous,  liberated world of black Parisian culture that he redirected his quest to the West Indies and eventually to Brazil, but not before he criss-crossed the world, taking pictures for Life magazine and other publications including coverage of Trotsky's exile in Mexico and a memorable series on China in the 1930's that has been widely exhibited.
        As soon as he arrived in Bahia and discovered a world dominated by samba, festivals and candombles, Mr. Verger felt at home with the local people.
        "I knew I was one of them," he said.
        In his extensive research on both sides of the south Atlantic, Mr. Verger established surprisingly strong continuing links between people in Africa and their Brazilian cousins who had been cut off from their home continent for generations.
        For example, when a troupe of dancers from Benin visited Bahia and joined their hosts in a dance for dead souls, Mr. Verger, who had already attributed the sing-song Bahian accent to the melodious speech patterns of West Africa, was not surprised when the two groups acted out the ceremony in total harmony.
        Although he took his religious position seriously, Mr. Verger, who said he had become a babalao primarily to gain access to the Yoruban secrets, always insisted that he was less a believer than an admirer of candomble.
        "What I like about candomble," he said recently, "is that it is the only major religion not based on good or evil, right or wrong."
        He is survived by his companion, Dona Ceci.
      