
        Michael J. Deutch, who fled Lenin's Russia and Hitler's Europe for the United States, helped invent the chemical process for making synthetic rubber in World  War II and advised American military and foreign policy officials, died on Monday at the Washington Hospice. He was 88.
        He died of complications from a respiratory illness, said his son, John M. Deutch, the Director of Central Intelligence.
        Michael Deutch was born in 1907 in Smolensk, Russia. He and his parents fled in the first years of the Russian Revolution. They landed in Belgium, where Mr.  Deutch received electrical and mechanical engineering degrees and a doctorate in economics.
        He joined Sofina, a public utilities company with holdings throughout Europe  and Mexico. In 1940, he and his family fled Brussels barely ahead of the advancing Nazis, arriving in Washington in 1942. He quickly became a deputy director of the War Production Board, which supplied necessities, like tires, to the war effort after the Japanese seizure of rubber plantations throughout the Pacific. During this period he was among those who developed the method for making synthetic rubber out of petroleum.
        When the war was over, he started an international engineering-consulting company on oil, chemical and water-purification projects. He spent the next three decades as a consultant, advising the State Department, the Pentagon and several Government agencies.
        In 1951, he went on a Presidential mission to shore up the political and economic development of the Philippines with Edward G. Lansdale, an Air Force lieutenant colonel assigned to the Central Intelligence Agency; Mr. Lansdale was trying to win Filipino hearts and minds through covert action. In the 1960's, Mr. Deutch went to Vietnam with Mr. Lansdale.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Deutch is survived by his wife of 61 years, Rachel Fischer Deutch; two daughters, Nina Deutch Hurwitz of Rye, N.Y., and Sara Deutch Schotland of Washington, and eight grandchildren.
      