
        Bob Thiele, a producer and record company owner who turned out a string of important jazz recordings for his Impulse label along with pop hits by Buddy Holly, Jackie Wilson and Teresa Brewer, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Bob Golden, a friend.
        In 1961, Mr. Thiele, by then a veteran record producer, took over the Impulse jazz label. He proceeded to change jazr history, not only because of the breadth of the music he recorded -- everything from Duke Ellington to Pharoah Sanders -- but because he recorded the saxophonist John Coltrane's most important work, including such albums as "A Love Supreme," "Ballads" and "Crescent."
        During the eight years he spent at Impulse, Mr. Thiele made albums with Coleman Hawkins, Oliver Nelson, Earl Hines, Albert Ayler, Alice Coltrane, Count  Basie, Archie Shepp, Charles Mingus and Charlie Haden's Liberation Music Orchestra. And on the Blues Way label, which like Impulse was a subsidiary of ABC, he made some of B. B. King's best modern recordings and also recorded T-Bone Walker and John Lee Hooker.
        Mr. Thiele got his start in music as a disk jockey in 1936. He formed a 14-piece band the following year to play proms and parties around New York City. In 1939 he began a magazine, Jazz, which published some of the better writers of the time, including Charles Edward Smith and Frederic Ramsey Jr. That year he also formed Signature Records, a company that allowed him to record some of the best of the swing-era soloists, including Coleman Hawkins, Earl Hines, Lester Young, Don Byas and Erroll Garner.
        The label went out of business in 1948, and Mr. Thiele joined Decca/ Coral records in 1952. In 1954, he took over Coral Records and proceeded to record work by Holly, Wilson, the Crickets, Buddy Hackett, Lawrence Welk, Eydie Gorme,  Steve Lawrence and others. He also recorded Miss Brewer's early hits, including  "Ricochet" and "Jilted."
        In 1959 Mr. Thiele produced pop records by Pat Boone and the Mills Brothers for Dot Records as well as an album of Jack Kerouac reading his poems. When the  head of Dot Records decided that Kerouac's poems were obscene and recalled the album, Mr. Thiele resigned and formed a new company, Hanover-Signature, with Steve Allen. He re-released the Kerouac album.
        In 1969, after leaving Impulse, Mr. Thiele started another company, Flying Dutchman, that continued in the tradition of Impulse, recording Gato Barbieri, Oliver Nelson, Johnny Hodges, Count Basie and Louis Armstrong. One of Mr. Armstrong's hits, "What a Wonderful World," was written by Mr. Thi'le, with George David Weiss, during this period. In 1972 Mr. Thiele married Miss Brewer and recorded her extensively.
        In the 1980's Mr. Thiele worked on reissues of recordings for the Impulse label, CBS and RCA's Bluebird series. He continued to record important jazz artists for his Red Baron label, including McCoy Tyner, John Hicks and Arthur Blythe.
        He is survived by his wife, of Manhattan, and a son, Bob Thiele Jr. of Los Angeles.
      