
        Sophie Reuther, a social activist who captured the heart of the United Auto Workers' co-founder, Victor Reuther, and then proved her mettle as a union organizer during the violent labor wars of the 1930's, died on Tuesday at a hospice near her winter home in Ft. Myers, Fla. She was 82 and had been Mr. Reuther's full partner in labor and in life for 59 years.
        When they met in December 1935 at the Brookwood Labor College in Katonah, N.Y., where she was a student and he a visiting lecturer, Mr. Reuther was a dashing labor figure who had spent three years traveling around the world with his older brother, Walter, and had helped him found the U.A.W. earlier that year.
        I think she was impressed," her husband said yesterday, acknowledging that  the feeling was more than mutual. She may not have had his credentials as a union founder, but as the daughter of Polish refugees who died when she was 15,  Sophia Goodlavich, or Sophie Good, as she was known, had already made a mark for herself in labor circles.
        A native of Middleboro, Mass., she had her first taste of organizing while working at a shoe factory and had later so distinguished herself in raising money for unionized workers during a shipyard strike that Norman Thomas, the Socialist leader, had recommended her for a scholarship to the labor college.
        "She was a very prim young woman with a fund of social idealism," Mr. Reuther said, offering a courtly labor man's declaration of what he acknowledged was love at first sight.
        Mr. Reuther, who had been profoundly lonely since his brother's recent marriage, said he was so afraid he would never see her again after her short term ended that he proposed.
        She accepted, and six months after their marriage in July 1936, Mrs. Reuther, using the name Good to hide her connections to a high union official, was sent by the U.A.W. to Anderson, Ind., to help bolster support for a strike at a General Motors plant.
        At one point, Mr. Reuther said, while he was on his way to Anderson, his wife had to jump out a second-story window to escape an armed band of Ku Klux Klansmen who stormed the union headquarters at the urging of management officials.
        "She went underground and it took me three days to find her," he said. Before the year was out, he and she along with his brother Roy, were purged during an intra-union fight that lasted until the Reuther faction regained power two years later.
        Walter Reuther, who remained in office during the purge, also remained a marked man.
        In April 1938 two gun-wielding anti-union thugs forced their way into Sophie  Reuther's 25th birthday party at Walter Reuther's Detroit apartment (a delivery  of Chinese food had been expected) and began pistol whipping her brother-in-law  until a guest scrambled out a second-story window and began shouting for the police.
        When the police, widely assumed to be in the pay of the auto makers, began a  perfunctory investigation and asked Mrs. Reuther to describe the thugs, she did  not miss a beat. "They looked very much like you," she said.
        In 1951, after an attempt on Mr. Reuther's life, the family, including three  children, moved to Paris, where he spent three years as the Congress of Industrial Organizations' European director.
        They moved to Washington in 1954, when Walter Reuther took over as U.A.W. president and Victor became his special assistant and director of international  affairs.
        Although Mrs. Reuther held no official union position after 1937, she remained very much a union woman, so much so that when her husband, who she believed had been neglecting his domestic duties, returned from one of his frequent trips he found a list of her demands written large in rug shampoo on the living room carpet.
        Known as a woman who recognized no limitations on what she could do, Mrs. Reuther obtained a fine arts degree from George Washington University at the age of 55 in 1968 and was a Robert F. Kennedy delegate to the Democratic National Convention that year.
        It was during an official visit union to India that year that Mrs. Reuther left her husband with the enduring image of her humanity. At a mine near Calcutta, he recalled, a miner's widow, an untouchable, approached his wife, bent down and kissed her shoe.
        Then, in a breach of caste protocol, "my Sophie reached down and lifted the woman up and embraced her." Mr. Reuther recalled. "The women were shocked. The men were shocked."
        "That was my Sophie," he said. "She felt a kinship with the suffering of all  people."
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Reuther is survived by a daughter,Carole Hill of Cowden, Ill.; two sons, Eric, of Washington, and John, of Moscow; a brother, Edward Bezuska of Warren, Mich., and six grandchildren.
      