
        Felice N. Schwartz, who was active for more than three decades in the advancement of women in the workplace, and whose writing focused debate over the career model known as the "mommy track," died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71.
        She died of heart failure after a long illness, said her son Tony.
        Mrs. Schwartz was the founder of Catalyst, a national organization that was  dedicated to helping women choose and advance careers and that later promoted the participation of women in corporations and their recruitment on corporate boards. She remained its president for 30 years, retiring in 1993.
        She prompted a national debate in 1989 with an article in the Harvard Business Review that asserted it cost companies more to employ women than men. She noted that women's careers were often interrupted, or ended, when they had children and suggested that employers create policies to help mothers balance career and family responsibilities by giving them more flexibility in work hours and providing high-quality day care.
        An uproar began almost immediately. Her proposed alternative career track came to be called the "mommy track." Detractors voiced the fear that by raising  the higher cost issue, women would not be hired and promoted and that all women  would be left with the primary responsibility for child care. Mrs. Schwartz said her views were widely misinterpreted.
        "I violated the politically correct thing by saying that women are not just like men, " Mrs. Schwartz maintained in an interview in The Boston Globe in 1992. "What I said then and still say is that women face many, many obstacles in the workplace that men do not face. I was saying to that group of men at the top, 'Rather than let women's talents go to waste, do something about it.' "
        She believed, she said, that there should be a parent track. "When a woman is faced with doing all the housework, all the child care and then full-time work in the corporate area, she is stunted. The same applies to men."
        The daughter of Albert and Rose Nierenberg of New York, she first became involved in social causes while an undergraduate at Smith College. In 1945, she  founded the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students. The organization lobbied colleges and universities to open their doors to minorities and provided financial aid for college bound African-American students.
        Catalyst, founded in 1962 after Mrs. Schwartz had spent a decade at home raising her children, focused in its early years on lobbying employers to allow  women to combine family and part-time work. The organization pioneered several job-sharing pilot projects in which two women shared a full-time job. It also undertook studies on family issues in the workplace.
        In 1968, Mrs. Schwartz wrote "How to Go to Work When Your Husband Is Against  It, Your Children Aren't Old Enough and There's Nothing You Can Do Anyhow." A second book, "Breaking With Tradition: Women and Work, the New Facts of Life," was published in 1992. Last month, she finished writing "The Armchair Activist:  Simple Yet Powerful Ways to Fight the Radical Right." It will be published this  fall.
        She was married in 1946 to Irving L. Schwartz, a scientist, educator and physician.
        During the early years of her marriage, Mrs. Schwartz and her husband had what might have been one of the early commuter marriages. The family moved to Cincinnati where Dr. Schwartz had been offered a post at a medical school. Mrs.  Schwartz, who was planning the organization that later became Catalyst, believed that it had to be launched in New York. She returned with her three children and Dr. Schwartz spent the next two years flying back and forth on weekends.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Cassie Arnold of Washington; two  sons, Tony Schwartz of New York City and James Schwartz of Boston; a brother, Theodore Nierenberg of Armonk, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      