
        J. Terence Reese, a prolific British writer on bridge who was widely regarded as the world's best player until a cheating scandal effectively ended his tournament career in 1965, died on Monday at his home in Hove, England. He was 82 and had been the bridge columnist for The Observer since 1950.
        Mr. Reese, a perennial national champion who in 1955 led Britain to four European championships and its only world title, may not have been born with a deck of cards in his hand, but it did not take him long to find his calling.
        A native of Epsom whose parents had met at a whist tournament, he began playing cards at the age of 3 and took up bridge at 7.
        At Oxford, he helped win the first varsity match, against Cambridge in 1935,  and became a management trainee at Harrods department store just long enough to  complete his first book, "The Elements of Contract."
        From then on he made his living almost exclusively from bridge, serving as a  columnist for a series of newspapers, inaugurating the first radio program devoted to the game and turning out a total of 83 bridge books, including such recognized classics as "Reese on Bridge" (1948) and "The Expert Game" (1958).
        It was considered more a reflection of his devotion to bridge than his aversion to combat that during World War II he secured an exempt position at a factory making blackout curtains, a job whose duties left him plenty of time to  pursue his primary interest.
        A superb technician known for the subtlety and depth of his analysis, Mr. Reese, who helped develop the widely used Acol bidding system, was also known for his austere manner and acerbic wit. But he was even more famous for his awesome powers of concentration.
        On a bet that became a bridge legend, his regular partner, Boris Schapiro, once arranged for a naked woman to take his place in the dummy's seat while Mr.  Reese was playing the hand across the table. Mr. Schapiro reclaimed his chair toward the end of play, and after the hand Mr. Reese was asked if he had noticed anything unusual.
        "Yes," he replied. "The delicate situation in hearts."
        Mr. Reese's knack for cards was not limited to bridge. In 1951, during the canasta craze, he and a partner trounced an American team in a six-day tournament in London.
        His playing career ended in controversy at the 1965 world championship in Buenos Aires when the World Bridge Association ruled that he and Mr. Schapiro had used illegal finger signals in their bidding. A British Bridge League panel  later found there was insufficient evidence to sustain such a ruling, but the world association prevailed.
        Mr. Reese, who always maintained his innocence, secured a measure of revenge  in 1980 when he and Jeremy Flint wrote "Trick 13," a mystery novel that depicted high-level bridge players as unscrupulous sexual libertines.
        He is survived by his wife, Alwyn.
      