
        McLean Stevenson, who played the amiable, slipshod Lieut. Col.  Henry Blake on the television series "M*A*S*H" for three seasons, died on Thursday at the Tarzana Regional Medical Center in Tarzana, Calif., near Los Angeles. He was 66.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Stevenson bounced around television from one comedy to another for much  of his career, but it was his role as the softhearted, bumbling commander of a surgical unit during the Korean War that best suited his affable, low-key comic  style. Instead of an officer's uniform, he wore a fisherman's vest and a fishing hat studded with lures.
        Mr. Stevenson was born in Bloomington, Ill., where his father was a cardiologist. After serving in the Navy, he attended Northwestern University, receiving a bachelor's degree in theater arts. Short stints at a variety of jobs followed. He worked at a radio station, played a clown on a live television show in Dallas and sold insurance and medical equipment.
        In 1961, Adlai Stevenson, a relative, invited him to a party in New Y'rk City, where, mingling with show business luminaries like Gower Champion and Sanford Meisner, Mr. Stevenson decided to become an actor. He auditioned and won a scholarship to the American Musical and Dramatic Academy. While studying under Mr. Meisner and Lee Strasberg, he wrote comedy material and performed at such nightclubs as Upstairs at the Downstairs.
        He made his acting debut in a summer stock production of "The Music Man" and  followed up with work in television commercials, "The Defenders" and "The Ed Sullivan Show." He also appeared with Alan Alda, later to star with him on "M*A*S*H," in the series "That Was the Week That Was," for which Mr. Stevenson was a writer. He also wrote for "The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour."
        After a guest appearance on "That Girl," with Marlo Thomas, he was signed to  a regular role on "The Doris Day Show" in 1969. He played Ms. Day's boss, Michael Nicholson, for two seasons. He was also a regular on "The Tim Conway Comedy Hour" in 1970.
        He first appeared as Henry Blake in the premiere episode of "M*A*S*H," on Sept. 17, 1972. In an interview, Mr. Stevenson described his character as a good-hearted medical man thrust into the position of running an Army unit and enforcing absurd rules.
        "I represent on 'M*A*S*H' the authority figure who can't cope and who caves in under pressure," he said. "Alan Alda is the hero, the guy people want to be but know they aren't. I'm the guy they really are."
        Mr. Stevenson, too, identified with Blake. "I love this character," he said.  "He is me."
        In the fall of 1973, Mr. Stevenson, already a popular guest on the "Tonight"  show, began a long-running second career as a guest host on the show. He also appeared frequently on "Hollywood Squares." By late 1974, he was chafing at his  second-banana role on "M*A*S*H" and asked to be released from his contract. In the last episode of the 1974-75 season, Blake was reassigned and his plane was shot down over the Sea of Japan.
        Mr. Stevenson later appeared in "The McLean Stevenson Show," a short-lived series that began in December 1976. "In the Beginning," a Norman Lear comedy in  which Mr. Stevenson played a conservative priest at odds with a liberal nun, also failed. The series "Hello, Larry," another comedy by Mr. Lear, presented Mr. Stevenson as a talk-show host on a small radio station and the father of two teen-age daughters. The series had its premiere in January 1979, and ran for two seasons. He also appeared in the film "The Cat From Outer Space" (1978).
        He is survived by his wife, Ginny; a daughter, Lindsey; a son, Jeffrey MacGregor, and a sister, Ann Whitney.
      