
        Joseph W. Barr, a former Treasury Secretary, Congressman and bank executive,  died on Friday in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, where he was vacationing. He was 78  and lived in Hume, Va.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        A Democrat, Mr. Barr began a decade of service in Washington in 1959, when he joined the House as a Representative from the 11th District of Indiana. He was defeated in his bid for re-election two years later, but remained in Washington as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Congressional Relations during the Kennedy Administration.
        From 1963 to 1965 he was chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. He then returned to the Treasury Department as Under Secretary.
        In the fall of 1968, after the resignation of Henry W. Fowler as Treasury Secretary, President Lyndon B. Johnson nominated Mr. Barr to replace him. He served in that position from December 1968 until President Richard M. Nixon took office in January 1969.
        During his Government career, Mr. Barr helped to build the Asian Development  Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
        After leaving the Treasury Department, he joined the American Security and Trust Company, a leading Washington financial institution, as vice chairman. Later that year, he was named president, a post he held until 1972, when he became chairman.
        He left American Security in 1974 after a dispute with fellow board members about the bank's strategy for long-term growth.
        Later that year he served as head of the financially troubled Franklin National Bank of New York, but he left after some months when he determined that the bank's problems were beyond solution.
        Born in Vincennes, Ind., on Jan. 17, 1918, Mr. Barr was educated at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and at  Harvard University, where he earned a master's degree in theoretical economics.
        After service in the Navy during World War II -- he earned a Bronze Star at the Anzio beachhead in Italy as commander of a submarine chaser -- he returned to Indiana to work in the family businesses, which included grain elevators, farm equipment financing and banking.
        After leaving Franklin National, he retired to his farm in Hume.
        Survivors include his wife of 57 years, the former Beth Ann Williston; a son, Joseph W., of Clifton, Va.; four daughters, Bonnie Gilliom of Atlanta, Cherry Ann Barr of Barnesville, Md., Elizabeth E. Stone of Hume and Lynn Barr of Ypsilanti, Mich.; a brother, John, of Champaign, Ill., and 17 grandchildren.
      