
        Fred Simmons Keller, an analyst of human behavior and professor emeritus of psychology at Columbia University, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 97.
        Dr. Keller, a classmate and early associate of B. F. Skinner, the behaviorist, is remembered as the author of the Personalized System of Instruction, or Keller Plan, and the so called code-voice method of teaching the Morse code in the armed forces.
        The Keller Plan came from earlier experiments and Dr. Keller's own contribution of the accelerated Morse-code training method, for which he received a Presidential Certificate of Merit in 1948. Serving as a member of the wartime Office of Scientific Research and Development, he applied conditioned reflex and the reinforcement theory as developed by Ivan Pavlov, John B. Watson  and Dr. Skinner, among others.
        Army radio operators and others needing to know Morse code were trained by listening to a signal and writing down the equivalent letter. The instructor then announced the letter or number that had been signaled so the trainee could  correct himself on the spot. This went on until he got all 100 signals right. The method speeded training by about a third and came to be widely used.
        Dr. Keller first put his Personalized System of Instruction to use in 1964 while helping to organize the psychology department of the fledgling University  of Brasilia in Brazil. Basically, the plan divides courses into units that students master at their own pace with the help of tutors. The system found acceptance at some American colleges. But it met with resistance from teachers and did not fully replace the classic lecture system.
        In 1949, he and a colleague, William N. Schoenfeld, introduced an undergraduate psychology course in which each student learned the basics by testing and manipulating the responses and habits of one white rat. That addition to the curriculum made Columbia the first university in the world where undergraduates conducted experiments with living animals from the start to finish of the course.
        Fred Keller was born on a farm near the hamlet of Rural Grove in upstate New  York. In World War I, he served with the American Expeditionary Force aboard ammunition trains, rising to sergeant. He subsequently graduated from Tufts College and received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University. He joined Columbia in 1938 and retired in 1964. He also wrote several textbooks on psychology and education.
        Dr. Keller is survived by his wife of 60 years, Frances Scholl Keller; a daughter, Anne S. Cline, of Kalamazoo, Mich.; a son, John V., of Charlotte, N.C., five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      