
        Rene C. McPherson, a former chairman and chief executive of the Dana Corporation and later dean of the Stanford Business School, died on Feb. 26 at his home in North Key Largo, Fla. He was 71.
        Mr. McPherson died of pancreatic cancer, said Gary Corrigan, a Dana Corporation spokesman.
        Mr. McPherson joined Dana, a large Toledo-based producer of automobile components and industrial products, as a sales engineer in 1952.
        He rose quickly through the ranks and in 1968 was named president and chief operating officer. Four years later, he was appointed chairman and chief executive, positions he held until his retirement in 1980.
        During his tenure at Dana, Mr. McPherson was known as a dynamic and innovative leader. One of his first acts as president was to toss out the company's 22 1/2-inch-thick book of policies and procedures. He subsequently developed a one-page policy sheet that still guides the company.
        Mr. McPherson served on numerous corporate boards, including those of the BankAmerica Corporation, the Boeing Company, the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation and Dow Jones & Company.
        Mr. McPherson was named dean at the Stanford Business School in October 1979. He held the post until September 1983, but a serious automobile accident two months after his appointment severely hampered his stamina. He said he stepped down primarily for health reasons.
        A native of Akron, Ohio, Mr. McPherson was a highly decorated bomber pilot in World War II. Among other awards, he received the Distinguished Flying Cross for his service in the Pacific from 1943 to 1945.
        He earned a B.S. degree from the Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School.
        Mr. McPherson is survived by his wife, the former Nancy Rowell, of North Key  Largo; a son, Douglas, of Germantown, Tenn.; a daughter, Laurie Verslype of Worthington, Ohio; two brothers, Paul and Duncan, both of Washington; a sister,  Margaret, of Cincinnati, and three grandchildren.
      