
        Dan Kiley, the psychologist whose 1983 book, "The Peter Pan Syndrome," became an international best seller and led to a wave of copycat pop-psychology books,  died on Saturday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 54.
        His wife, JoAnne, said he had suffered a heart attack after playing handball.
        Dr. Kiley, who grew up on a farm in Cullom, Ill., had considered becoming a  priest but after receiving a degree in philosophy and psychology at St. Ambrose  College in Davenport, Iowa, he followed a secular path.
        After receiving a doctorate at the University of Illinois, he married a fellow student and began treating juvenile delinquents, an experience that led to a series of early books, including "Keeping Kids Out of Trouble."
        Dr. Kiley got the idea for "The Peter Pan Syndrome" after noticing that, like the famous character in the James M. Barrie play, many of the troubled teen-age  boys he treated had problems growing up and accepting adult responsibilities.
        After he began work on the book, it dawned on him that the teen-age boys who  refused to accept responsibility grew up to become men who refused to accept responsibility.
        Recasting the book, he added the subtitle "Men Who Have Never Grown Up," but  his original publisher, apparently failing to recognize that his thesis dovetailed with a widespread feminist view of relations between the sexes, rejected the manuscript. That was a mistake.
        After the book was published by Dodd, Mead, it became an immediate sensation, staying on The New York Times best-seller list for months and selling more than  200,000 copies in hardcover. Millions of copies of the book have been sold in the Avon paperback and international editions; it has been translated into 22 languages and was a best seller in both Brazil and Japan.
        The success of the book made Dr. Kiley, a big, bearded, silver-haired man, a  fixture on the television talk-show circuit and led him to write a 1984 spinoff, "The Wendy Dilemma," about women who inappropriately mother the men in their lives.
        Although it sold well, Dr. Kiley's agent, Howard Morehaim, said yesterday that it had failed to match the original's success, in part, he suggested, because women resisted Dr. Kiley's suggestion that while the men in their lives  might be jerks, the women who mothered them were responsible for their own problems.
        When Dr. Kiley later wrote a manuscript called "Peter Pan Grows Up," tracing  the Peter Pan syndrome in men to what he described as emotionally incestuous relationships with their smothering, invasive mothers, he could not even get a publisher to accept it, the agent said.
        Dr. Kiley, whose later books included "Living Together, Feeling Alone," freely admitted that he had been a Peter Pan. But even after his success, happiness continued to elude him, at least until he underwent what his agent called an emotional sea change a decade ago.
        After his second divorce, Dr. Kiley moved from Chicago to Tucson in 1988 and  became deeply involved in meditation and Zen philosophy.
        That might have accounted for his newfound peace of mind, but his wife, 49, had a different explanation yesterday.
        "He stopped chasing young babes," she said, suggesting that her husband had found true happiness only after he met and married her three years ago, settling down in a blissful relationship with her and their Maltese dog, Shelly.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Kiley is survived by a son, Patrick, of Cullom;  a stepdaughter, Michelle Campbell of Tucson, and four grandchildren.
      