
        Harry Coyle, a director who pioneered the on-air look of televised baseball games over a 42-year career, died on Monday at Mercy Hospital in Des Moines. He  was 74.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, which followed a stroke Mr. Coyle suffered last week, his wife, Ramona, said.
        Mr. Coyle bridged the eras from the late 1940's, when games were broadcast in black and white using three cameras, to the late 80's, when slow motion, instant replays and a dozen cameras were commonplace.
        He introduced the use of hand-held cameras, close-ups, player reactions and smooth cutting from shot to shot, said Michael Weisman, the former executive producer of NBC Sports, who worked beside Mr. Coyle.
        "He was very early in personalizing players," he said. "He didn't just follow the ball; he was a storyteller. It felt like you couldn't do a World Series without Harry."
        Mr. Coyle directed 36 World Series and 27 All-Star Games, as well as 27 Rose  Bowls and 12 United States Open golf championships.
        "From the first day I sat down on the seat working baseball, I always felt comfortable," he said in 1983.
        Mr. Coyle's most memorable shot was the dramatic, lingering view from a camera inside Fenway Park's left-center field scoreboard showing Carlton Fisk of the Boston Red Sox waving his game-winning home run fair in Game 6 of the 1975 World Series.
        Mr. Coyle also introduced a center-field camera 40 years ago to let viewers follow the path of a pitch from behind the pitcher and into the catcher's mitt.  It is standard now, but represented a quantum leap from the traditional view from high above home plate that focused on the infield.
        "In those days, your mind was going crazy because everybody was trying to find the answer to improve baseball's coverage," he said in the book "Voices of  the Game," a history of baseball broadcasting. He got the idea from watching an  umpire call a softball game from behind the pitcher.
        "I said, 'Gee whiz, that's a perfect spot for a camera,' " he said in 1983.
        Mr. Coyle was born in Ridgewood, N.J., and was raised in Paterson. He attended William Paterson College for two years, then served as a fighter pilot  in the Army Air Forces. He joined the Dumont Network in 1947 and directed part-time at NBC before joining it full time in 1955.
        He retired in 1989 and moved to Marshalltown, Iowa, in 1990. In addition to his wife, Mr. Coyle is survived by two stepsons, Greg and Ken Sharp; a stepdaughter, Cathy Kremer, and six step-grandchildren.
      