
        Larry Eigner, whose spare, dense and impassioned poetry carried on the tradition of William Carlos Williams, died on Feb. 3 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 68.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Charles Bernstein, a poet and professor of English at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
        Mr. Eigner, who published under his nickname rather than under his given name, Laurence, was born in Swampscott, Mass., near Boston. As a result of a birth injury, he developed cerebral palsy, a condition that confined him to a wheelchair. His disability had a profound influence on his poetry, which often captured, in emotional bursts of language, fleeting impressions received through the window of a house, an airplane or a car window.
        "It seems I feel the world as a neighborhood, or two dozen miles of it, anyway," he once told an interviewer. "My eyes are still big for my head; most things were always tantalizingly beyond or almost beyond sight and hearing, out  of reach."
        Mr. Eigner was educated at home and took correspondence courses from the University of Chicago. In 1949, after hearing the poet Cid Corman read Yeats on  the radio, he started writing to him. A correspondence developed, and Corman brought Mr. Eigner's work to the attention of such poets as Robert Duncan, Charles Olson, Denise Levertov and Robert Creeley, whose work was published in Black Mountain Review and in Corman's magazine, Origin.
        Mr. Eigner's first mature book of poetry, "From the Sustaining Air," won the  praise of Williams, but it was his inclusion in the anthology "The New American Poetry" (1960) that carried his name to a wider audience. His many works included "Another Time in Fragments" (1967), "Things Stirring Together or  Far Away" (1974), "Waters/Places/ A Time" (1981) and "Windows Walls Yard Ways (1994). His poetry and prose were collected in "Selected Poems" (1972) and "Areas Lights Heights: Selected Writings, 1954-1989" (1989).
        At the time of his death he had completed "Readiness/Enough/Depends/On," which Sun and Moon Press is to publish in the summer.
        He is survived by two brothers, Richard, of Berkeley, and Joseph, of St. Louis.
      