
        Samuel M. Wishik, a professor emeritus of public health at Columbia University who helped devise family planning and health programs throughout the  world, died on Monday at Thornton Hospital in San Diego. He was 89 and lived in  the La Jolla section of San Diego since retiring from Columbia 18 years ago.
        At his death Dr. Wishik was on the faculties of the University of California  at San Diego and San Diego State University. He also was a consultant for the Navy in its medical studies of veterans of the Persian Gulf war.
        He was born in Flushing, Queens, and began his medical career there. Working as a young pediatrician during the Depression, he occasionally accepted chickens and onions from patients in lieu of money.
        He had graduated from high school at the age of 16 and finished Columbia College and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in just six years, receiving his medical degree in 1929.
        Dr. Wishik worked for the New York City Department of Health in the 1940's, eventually becoming director of the Bureau of Child Health.  After World War II, while conducted a children's health survey of the Philippines for the State Department, he suffered internal bleeding, and eventually had half of his stomach removed.
        In 1951 the University of Pittsburgh's Graduate School of Public Health appointed him founding chairman of the department of maternal and child health.  He eventually became an associate dean and worked closely with Dr. Jonas Salk, who developed a vaccine to prevent polio, and with Dr. Benjamin Spock, the pediatrician and writer of books on child care.
        In the 1960's Dr. Wishik moved his family to Pakistan and developed a family  planning program at the request of the Pakistani Government.
        He returned to Columbia in 1967 to set up a program-development and evaluation division at the International Institute for the Study of Human Reproduction in the School of Public Health. Dr. Wishik reached emeritus status  in 1976, by which time he had done public health work in 65 countries around the world.
        He was the author of an early study of crippled children and a "Training Handbook for Family Planning Workers," which was first published by the Pakistani Government and later translated into 17 languages. He also wrote "Feeding Your Child" (Doubleday, 1955).
        Dr. Wishik is survived by his wife, Dr. Belle Granich; two daughters, Laura Wishik of Seattle and Heather Wishik of Boston; a son, Anton, of Port Angeles, Wash.; two stepdaughters, Jane Hoffman of Los Alamos, N.M., and Judith Goode of  Philadelphia; a brother, Dr. Julian Wishik of Montgomery, Ala., 10 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      