
       Marian Van Tuyl, a noted dance educator, writer and performer, died of cancer at her home in San Francisco on Nov. 10. She was 80 years old.
        Marian Van Tuyl, a noted dance educator, writer and performer, died of cancer at her home in San Francisco on Nov. 10. She was 80 years old.
        Miss Van Tuyl was the founder and director of the dance department at Mills College in Oakland, Calif. She was associated with the school from 1938 to 1970, and returned briefly last spring to direct a production of one of her dances. She edited and published Impulse, an Annual of Contemporary Dance, from 1951 to 1970, and edited two books, ''Modern Dance Forms in Relation to the Other Arts'' and ''An Anthology of Impulse.''
        In the early 1940's, Miss Van Tuyl was the director and choreographer of the Marian Van Tuyl Dancers company, with which she also performed on their extensive and acclaimed tours of the Midwest. She also made two experimentalist dance films, ''Horror Dream,'' set to a score by John Cage, and ''Clinic of Stumble.''
        An energetic exponent of dance, in the San Francisco area and across the nation, Miss Van Tuyl served on the California Arts Commission through the 1970's, compiling a modern dance directory for the organization that was published in 1972. She was a founder of the Congress on Research in Dance and its newsletter.
        Miss Van Tuyl, born in Wascousta , Mich., was a graduate of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Her first teaching job was at the University of Chicago, where she was a dance instructor and choreographer from 1928 to 1938. She studied with Martha Graham, Hanya Holm, Doris Humphrey and Louis Horst, and also trained at the Bennington School of Dance. In 1938, Miss Van Tuyl was a fellow of the Bennington Dance Festival, the forerunner of the American Dance Festival.
        Miss Van Tuyl's husband, Dr. Douglas Campbell, died in 1983. She is survived by her children, Bruce, Robert and Gail; a brother, Lawrence, and three sisters, Hilda Kahle, Ruth Semple and Anna Dudley.
      