
       Ireene Wicker Hammer, who as ''The Singing Lady'' told fairy tales over radio and television to millions of American children, died yesterday in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 86 years old.
        Ireene Wicker Hammer, who as ''The Singing Lady'' told fairy tales over radio and television to millions of American children, died yesterday in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 86 years old.
        She had been on the air with few interruptions from 1931 to 1975, and the programs led to books and records for children. Her 30 awards included a Peabody and an Emmy. On her radio show, heard in the early evening for decades, she told stories in which she acted each part - ranging from princesses and wicked stepmothers to dragons - with a piano accompaniment. For this she was known as the ''Lady With a Thousand Voices.''
        In the late 1930's and early 40's, national polls of radio editors consistently placed her programs first in juvenile entertainment. More than 25 million children listened to her regularly.
        She was born Irene Seaton in Quincy, Ill., in 1900 and educated at public schools there. She graduated from the University of Illinois, where she studied music and drama. She then studied at the Goodman School of the Theater in Chicago and appeared in professional roles at the Goodman Theater in 1929 and 1930. Letter Added for Luck
        Early in her radio career, she changed the spelling of her first name to Ireene with three ''e's'' when she was told by a numerologist that one more letter would bring her great success.
        With her first husband, Walter Charles Wicker, a radio writer, producer and actor, she performed in two early soap operas, ''Today's Children'' and ''Harold Teen.''
        The Wickers had a son, Walter Charles Jr., who died in action as a fighter pilot in World War II, and a daughter, Nancy.
        Her debut as a children's radio entertainer came as a direct result of the way she amused her own offspring, telling tales and singing songs. ''The Singing Lady'' began as a local radio program in Chicago. Her Routine Was Her Own
        According to an account by Val Adams in The New York Times, the sponsoring Kellogg's cornflakes company handed her a list of nursery rhymes and told her to do a children's program. ''She developed the routine of dramatizing fairy tales and playing all the parts herself,'' Mr. Adams wrote in 1948.
        When television came along, she adapted her ''Singing Lady'' format to the new medium, using marionettes to act out her stories while she supplied the voices.
        During the 1950's, Red Channels, a private blacklisting publication, charged that the actress had sponsored a re-election committee for a Communist councilman in New York. She denied she had even heard of the man and the charges were later withdrawn with apologies.
        After her program was discontinued on commercial radio, it was later resumed on the Public Broadcasting System, and she was also heard on network radio affiliates.
        Her first marriage ended in divorce in 1938. In 1941 she married Victor J. Hammer, co-owner with his brother Armand of the Hammer Galleries in New York. He died in 1985.
        Mrs. Hammer is survived by her daughter, Nancy Eilan of Stamford, Conn.
      