
       Former Gov. Ross Robert Barnett, whose advocacy of segregation helped make Mississippi a civil rights battlefield 25 years ago, died today, his son said. He was 89 years old.
        Former Gov. Ross Robert Barnett, whose advocacy of segregation helped make Mississippi a civil rights battlefield 25 years ago, died today, his son said. He was 89 years old.
        Governor Barnett catapulted into the national spotlight in 1962 when he sought to bar a black man from entering the University of Mississippi in defiance of a Federal court order. The resulting confrontation was the sharpest clash between a state and the Federal Government since the Civil War.
        His son, Ross Barnett Jr., said the elder Barnett died at 5:30 P.M. at Doctor's Hospital in Jackson.
        ''He just quit breathing,'' his son said. ''He'd gone as far as he could go, I guess. He'd been pretty weak the past few months.''  An Ardent Segregationist
        Although his administration was marked by achievements in industrializing Mississippi, Governor Barnett was best remembered for his role in the riots of Oct. 1 1962, the day after James H. Meredith, a 29-year-old black Air Force veteran, sought to enroll at the University of Mississippi campus in Oxford.
        Governor Barnett denied Mr. Meredith admission to the university after pressuring the Legislature to cloak him with legal authority usually exercised by the state's College Board.
        When Mr. Meredith and Federal marshals arrived at the school, an army of segregationists assembled just off the campus. They poured onto the campus when the Highway Patrol was withdrawn from the entrances, and in the subsequent rioting two people were killed and hundreds were injured.
        As early efforts to register Mr. Meredith were unsuccessful and public disorders seemed in prospect, Governor Barnett and President Kennedy held a tense telephone conversation. The Governor finally yielded and Mr. Meredith registered for classes. Attempt at a Comeback
        The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit cited Governor Barnett for contempt for his part in the affair and he was assessed a penalty of $10,000 a day and sentenced to jail. He never served prison time or paid the fine, and the charges finally were dropped in 1965.
        In later years, Mr. Barnett was reluctant to discuss the confrontation, saying he did not ''want to open up old wounds.'' But he once said, ''Generally speaking, I'd do the same things again.''
        Mr. Barnett, who could not succeed himself, left office when his term ran out in 1964 and returned to the practice of law. He sought to make a political comeback in 1967, entering the Democratic gubernatorial contest, but suffered a humiliating defeat when he finished a weak fourth in the party primary.
        As the South gradually accepted the facts of racial integration, Mr. Barnett's notoriety gave him continued prominence as a spokesman for segregation for several more years before he faded into the background. Integration as 'Genocide'
        Mr. Barnett was a Governor of distinguished appearance and manner, standing over six feet tall. His speech had the softened cadences of his native South, although his voice could rise thunderously when he engaged in the flamboyant oratory then rarely heard outside the South.
        ''God was the original segregationist,'' he once declared. ''He made the white man white and the black man black, and he did not intend for them to mix.'' His views on desegregation were apocalyptic. ''There is no case in history where the Caucasian race has survived social integration,'' he said. ''We will not drink from the cup of genocide.''
        The youngest of 10 children in a farm family, Ross Robert Barnett was born in the hamlet of Standing Pine in Leake County, near Carthage, Miss., on Jan. 22, 1898.
        He worked his way through high school and Mississippi College as a barber, janitor, logger and kitchenware salesman, and served in the Army in World War I. He then earned his living as a high school coach and teacher and taught Sunday school while attending the Mississippi School of Law at Oxford. Bar Association President
        He opened a law office in Jackson, the state capital, and built a lucrative civil practice. He served as president of the Mississippi Bar Association in the 1940's and, in 1956, was among the Southern attorneys who helped John Kasper, a racist agitator covicted in Tennessee after school-integration violence.
        Mr. Barnett's first brush with politics was a run for the Democratic nomination for Governor in 1951. He lost that one, but made enough friends to stage a stronger though unsuccessful run in 1955.
        White supremacy was virtually Mr. Barnett's sole campaign theme. Touring rural Mississippi, he would tell farmers that God had made the black man different in order to punish him.
        He denounced Democratic opponents in the state house as moderates on racial issues and for inviting Federal agents to investigate the lynching of a black man. Gold Plated Faucets
        Mr. Barnett finally won the primary and a runoff in 1959 and took the oath of office in January 1960.
        Trying to provide jobs for his supporters, Mr. Barnett ran into trouble with the Legislature, which resented his attempts to monopolize patronage. There was also the discovery that he had spent more than $300,000 to refurbish the Governor's mansion with gold-plated faucet handles on the bathtubs.
        When violence broke out in Alabama in 1961 over protests against segregation on buses, Mr. Barnett backed the Alabama authorities and jailed Freedom Riders entering Mississippi.
        In 1929, Mr. Barnett married a school teacher, Mary Pearl Crawford. The couple had two daughters as well as a son.
        His son said today that funeral arrangements were incomplete.
      