
       William C. Pahlmann, a leading interior decorator and the first to design model rooms for department stores, died last Friday in a hospital in Guadalajara, Mexico, where he had a home. Mr. Pahlmann, who suffered for many years from arteriosclerosis, was 86 years old.
        William C. Pahlmann, a leading interior decorator and the first to design model rooms for department stores, died last Friday in a hospital in Guadalajara, Mexico, where he had a home. Mr. Pahlmann, who suffered for many years from arteriosclerosis, was 86 years old.
        During a career that spanned nearly half a century, Mr. Pahlmann exercised a pervasive influence on American taste. His professional prestige was so formidable that he helped make interior designing and decorating, a relatively new calling in the United States, an important part of the multibillion-dollar home-furnishings industry.
        In 1964, he received the Elsie de Wolfe Award of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Interior Designers. The late Miss de Wolfe (Lady Mendl) was credited with introducing interior decorating to the United States early in the century. It was said when the award was given that ''except for Elsie de Wolfe, no one has influenced American home decoration more than Mr. Pahlmann.''
        The designer was perhaps best known for the ''Pahlmann eclectic look,'' a blending of designs from all periods and countries. Considered his most far-reaching influence on modern home styling, the eclectic look involved the mixing and synthesizing into a pleasing whole bits and pieces that gave a room the Pahlmann stamp of elegance. Reactions From Rivals
        For example, Mr. Pahlmann would place in a single room a delicate 18th-century Louis XVI armchair, a 17th-century bronze Tibetan Buddha, a long low modern sofa upholstered in leather and an oversize coffee table. A bedroom might feature what he called such ''fun pieces'' as ugly yokes for oxen, crudely carved by Portuguese farmers, which Mr. Pahlmann turned into headboards for twin beds.
        Some rival decorators belonging to the ultramodern camp or the rigidly formalized period camp considered Mr. Pahlmann's ideas pretentious, precious, cluttered or, even, insane. But his admirers and disciples, who came to outnumber his detractors, looked on his interiors as chic, luxurious, clever and elegant.
        Among the many Pahlmann firsts were the introduction of blond Swedish designs, mobile furniture, Hollywood beds and double dressers. His decorating innovations included using mattress ticking as a wall covering, and he originated the concept of wall groupings of paintings and prints.
        The designer and his firm, William Pahlmann Associates, which he formed in 1946, were responsible for the interiors of homes, restaurants, boats, hotels, offices and department stores. He was responsible for the theme and decor of the Forum of the Twelve Caesars Restaurant in Manhattan, as well as the Four Seasons, said to be the costliest restaurant ever, when it opened in 1959. Bedeviled by Clients
        Mr. Pahlmann knew his own mind and scorned the usual business axiom that the customer is always right. ''In fact,'' he said, ''the customer is usually wrong.'' He believed, for example, that if a ceiling was no higher than eight feet, no sofa could be more than 30 inches high, and if a client insisted otherwise, ''she ceased immediately to be a client.''
        ''As Dr. Freud has told us,'' Mr. Pahlmann said, ''there is murder in every heart, and there seems no end to the ways some clients can bedevil a decorator. With the exception of psychoanalysis, there is probably no other field of civilized endeavor in which the personalities of client and adviser are in such violent conflict or harmonious cooperation as interior decoration.''
        The youngest of four children, William Carroll Pahlmann was born Dec. 12, 1900, in Pleasant Mound, Ill. His father died when he was 6, and the family moved to San Antonio, where his mother ran a boarding house. At the age of 10, he began to draw freehand and showed an early interest in flower-arranging for a Baptist Church.
        After high school, Mr. Pahlmann became a traveling salesman for a sewer-pipe company, and to while away the time in hotel rooms, he completed a 48-lesson correspondence course from Arts and Decoration magazine. He moved to New York in 1927 to study for two years at the Parsons School of Design and then studied at the Parsons school in Paris. Seventh Floor at Lord & Taylor
        In 1931, Mr. Pahlmann set up shop in New York, where his first customer was the first Mrs. William S. Paley, wife of the broadcasting executive. She was so dazzled by his work that she recommended him to all her friends, and he prospered.
        In 1936, Mr. Pahlmann became head of the decorating department at Lord & Taylor, and, taking over the entire seventh floor, put on a series of unconventional shows, centered on fully decorated model rooms that dazzled the public and established his reputation.
        The tall, elegant and angular Mr. Pahlmann, who one admirer described as having ''that air of grace and authority that suggests a retired lawn-tennis champion or career diplomat,'' often escorted well-known women to the opera or theater, but he never married.
        ''He is a delightful friend and charming company,'' one friend who is a woman said. ''But can you imagine keeping house for a man as fussy as Bill Pahlmann?''
        He was indeed a most exacting man, who was apt to turn down as clients people with permissive attitudes toward their children.
        ''What is the use of giving such people anything good?'' he said. ''The children would destroy it. Such parents don't deserve anything good. In my work, I have seen more houses ruined and made into shambles by the appalling lack of discipline on the part of parents toward their children.'' 'I Hate Cats'
        Prospective clients were advised not only to keep their spoiled children out of sight when Mr. Pahlmann came to call, but also to hide their cats.
        ''I hate cats,'' he said. ''I've seen the destruction they do. I've seen them tear fine upholstered pieces to shreds. They love damask. They ruin leather. They can climb up curtains and claw them to pieces. People who want lovely rooms should not keep cats.''
        Mr. Pahlmann taught others to live well, and he lived well himself, in a series of opulently eclectic apartments that housed his vast store of furnishings, which included such favorite permanent possessions as collections of Louis Philippe china and Peruvian jugs.
        In the 50's, he bought a Bauhaus-style country house in Bedford Village in Westchester County. On a 16-acre lot, he enlarged the house and made it a showcase of interior design, occasionally opening it to the public for benefit tours.
        He sold the house several years ago when he retired and gave up his last New York apartment in 1985 to move permanently to the Southwest. He had homes in San Antonio and Guadalajara. There are no immediate survivors.
        Services will be Friday at the Porter Loring Funeral Home in San Antonio.
      