
       Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died at his home in Montreal today after a heart attack, a police spokesman there said. He was 65 years old.
        Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died at his home in Montreal today after a heart attack, a police spokesman there said. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Levesque was taken by ambulance to Montreal General Hospital from his home, where he had been entertaining friends. The police spokesman said he was declared dead about 9 P.M. after ambulance attendants and doctors could not revive him.
        Mr. Levesque stepped down as Premier in 1985 after the separatist party he helped to found and led to power in the province, the Parti Quebecois, suffered a sharp fall in popularity.
        After leaving politics, Mr. Levesque resumed his earlier career as a journalist and commentator, and at the time of his death was presenting a regular current-affairs program on a Montreal radio station and appearing occasionally on television. Separatist Party Ousted
        Later in 1985 the Parti Quebecois, under the new leadership of Pierre-Marc Johnson, lost a provincial election by a landslide to the Liberal Party, which it had defeated in 1976.
        The Liberals, under Premier Robert Bourassa, reopened negotiations with the Federal Government in Ottawa and last June concluded a constitutional agreement under which Quebec committed itself to remain part of Canada in an arrangement that will recognize the province as a ''distinct society.''
        For Mr. Levesque, the defeat of the separatist cause had come earlier, in a referendum he called as Premier in 1980. Although the Parti Quebecois was broadly popular in the province, the intervention of Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau helped defeat a proposal backed by the party that Quebec negotiate a new arrangement, known as sovereignty-association, with the rest of Canada.
        The idea was that Quebec and Canada would be independent nations, linked in an economic Common Market. But Quebec voters rejected the idea by a ratio of 3 to 2, and Mr. Levesque subsequently persuaded a majority in the Parti Quebecois that the pursuit of independence should be set aside, for the time being at least. Dispute Weakens Leadership
        The ensuing dispute within the party, coupled with a widespread feeling that the party was losing its capacity to govern the province effectively, led to pressure for Mr. Levesque's resignation as party leader and Premier.
        The last years of Mr. Levesque's life were marked by a number of personal embarassments and disappointments. While he was still Premier, a car he was driving hit and killed a pedestrian late at night in Montreal. The incident attracted attention to his personal life to a degree that was unusual for Candaian politicians.
        Although he remained Premier, doubts had been raised that undermined his personal standing in the province, which had previously stood at record levels.
        Last year, the publication of his memoirs caused him fresh difficulty when he acknowldeged that his claim in the book to have witnessed the surrender of German forces to the Allies in 1945, when he was working as a war correspondent, was untrue.
        He subsequently adopted an unusually low profile for a former Premier, traveling extensively abroad. When he returned to Quebec he attracted little attention. Exclusion From Banquets
        When French-speaking countries held a summit meeting in Quebec, the provincial capital, two months ago, Mr. Levesque was pointedly excluded from official banquets. He attended the gathering as a reporter, sitting in the back row during news conferences and chain-smoking, a life-long habit.
        Mr. Levesque was born in New Car-lisle on the Gaspe Peninsula of Quebec on Aug. 24, 1922, to French-Canadian parents. The son of a lawyer, he went to city school at Laval University in the city of Quebec.
        In the years after World War II, Mr. Levesque was one of a group of young Quebec intellectuals who set about challenging the political dynasty of Maurice Duplessis, who ruled Quebec in close liaison with the Roman Catho-lic Church for nearly 20 years until his death in 1959. Radio and Television Career
        As a radio commentator with the French-language service of the Cana-dian Broadcasting Corporation, and later as head of the French network's radio and television news service, Mr. Levesque became one of Quebec's most influential commentators. He was particularly noted for his efforts to give French-Canadians an understand-ing of the world beyond the borders of Canada.
        In 1959, he joined the province's Lib-eral Party and held a series of minis-terial posts in the Quebec government. Among other things, he was responsi-ble for decisions to nationalize electric utilities and to impose new standards on what had been a notoriously corrupt political system. A Break With Trudeau
        By the mid-1960's, however, Mr. Levesque has parted company with a number of his former friends and as-sociates over the issue of Quebec's fu-ture within Canada. One of these friends was Mr. Trudeau, at that time a Montreal law professor, and much of the next 20 years in both mens' careers was devoted to battling over the issue.
        Although Mr. Levesque lost on the in-dependence issue, the Parti Quebecois, which he helped found in 1967 and led to power in the province nine years later, took a number of popular measures to strengthen French language and cul-ture and to shore up the province's powers in the areas of education and social welfare.
        Among these was a controversial measure, Bill 101, fiercly opposed by Mr. Trudeau, which formalized the status of French as Quebec's only official language and severely restricted the use of English in the workplace, in government and on signs displayed in public.
        The Levesque government also passed a number of popular measures that were not directly associated with its core concerns about French culture, including automobile insurance and rezoning of agricultural land and the abolition of secret electoral financing.
        But its popularity was seriously un-dermined by austerity measures intor-social programs caused a financial crisis.
        At the time of Mr. Levesque's death, the Parti Quebecois remained in the political doldrums, badly split on the indipendence issue, with only a rump membership in the provincial legisla-ture, and with its ties to labor unions, once its strongest source of support, badly eroded.
        Mr. Johnson, the party's current leader, has saidhe will not press the in-dependence issue in the next election, expected in 1990, but that the party's commitment to ultimate separation from Canada will not be abandoned.
      