
       Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the Netherlands' most notorious Nazi war criminal, died here today in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old and no cause of death was given.
        Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the Netherlands' most notorious Nazi war criminal, died here today in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old and no cause of death was given.
        Mr. Menten, a wealthy art collector, was convicted in the killings of dozens of Jews in the Polish village of Podhoroce while he was serving as a translator with an SS unit of the German Army in 1941. At the time he was a Polish citizen.
        In 1985, he was freed from prison on good behavior after serving two-thirds of a 10-year sentence. He entered the nursing home in July.
        For more than 25 years, Mr. Menten and his wife, Meta, lived in obscurity in postwar Holland in a 40-room mansion 20 miles outside Amsterdam. Served 8 Months
        In 1949 he served an eight-month prison term for collaborating with the Nazis, and in the early 1950's Poland twice tried unsuccessfully to have him extradited for war crimes.
        In 1976, the Amsterdam daily De Telegraaf interviewed Mr. Menten and reported that he would be auctioning some of his art works. The story was published in Israeli newspapers, where it led to accounts of his wartime past.
        Dutch journalists delved further into his background after receiving tips that Mr. Menten had been involved in Nazi atrocities, and their disclosures led to a full-scale investigation.
        He fled to Switzerland but was expelled as an undesirable alien in December 1976. He was brought to trial in 1977 in Amsterdam on charges that while attached to the SS unit he had taken part in the massacre of at least 195 inhabitants of two Polish villages, both now part of the Soviet Ukraine. Cited a K.G.B. Plot
        Mr. Menten was acquitted of atrocities in one village, but found guilty of participating in the Nazi slaughter of between 20 and 30 Polish Jews in Podhoroce on July 7, 1941. Witnesses brought from the area testified that he had been known to them before the war as a businessman with a large estate outside Podhorece.
        They testified that they saw him on the day of the killings wearing a German uniform and helping round up victims for a Nazi firing squad.
        Mr. Menten maintained that he was a victim of a plot by the K.G.B., the Soviet state security agency.
        The Dutch Supreme Court initially quashed his conviction on technical grounds after a pre-trial investigation disclosed evidence that he had received a promise of immunity from prosecution from a former Dutch Justice Minister in 1952.
        Later, the Dutch Goverment successfully appealed the release ruling and an attempt to gain immunity on the grounds of insanity. Mr. Menten was retried in 1980 and sentenced to the 10-year term.
      