
       Christopher Wilmarth, a critically acclaimed sculptor whose works are on permanent display at many of the nation's best-known museums, apparently hanged himself yesterday in his studio-home in Brooklyn, the police said. He was 44 years old.
        Christopher Wilmarth, a critically acclaimed sculptor whose works are on permanent display at many of the nation's best-known museums, apparently hanged himself yesterday in his studio-home in Brooklyn, the police said. He was 44 years old.
        The artist's wife, Susan, found the body at 10:15 A.M. in the studio of the residence at 60 Sackett Street, in the Red Hook section. No note was found. Mrs. Wilmarth told the authorities her husband had been under treatment for depression. Pending an autopsy, the police listed the death as an apparent suicide.
        In a career that spanned two decades, Mr. Wilmarth did not achieve the fame of more trendy artists, but his work - primarily creations of steel, bronze and etched glass that he said were inspired by poetry - drew raves from art critics, serious collectors and museum officials.
        Hilton Kramer, in a 1978 review for The New York Times, called Mr. Wilmarth ''one of the leading sculptors of his generation'' and said he was ''unquestionably in possession of one of the most original sculptural styles to emerge in the 1970's.'' 'A Man Who Stood for Something'
        Grace Glueck, in a 1982 review for The Times, noted that much of Mr. Wilmarth's work was inspired by the poetry of the French symbolist, Stephane Mallarme (1842-1898). ''It's a rare match, that of a sculptor and a poet, and the restrained eloquence of Mr. Wilmarth's work is very affecting,'' she said.
        Mr. Wilmarth's work - etchings, drawings and paintings as well as sculpture - is included in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum, the Cooper Union Library and other museums and galleries in New York.
        It is also in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Fogg Museum in Cambridge, the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, the Dallas Museum of Fine Art, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, the Des Moines Art Center, the St. Louis Museum and other major museums.
        ''The art world has lost a really good friend, a man who stood for something,'' said Betty Cuningham, assistant to the director of Hirschl & Adler Modern, the gallery on Madison Avenue that had been Mr. Wilmarth's dealer since 1982. Fighting City Hall
        Friends and colleagues called Mr. Wilmarth a maverick and, in the defense of what he perceived as right in the art world, a contentious man who often did battle with city agencies, art-judging committees and commercial art interests.
        Once, for example, he discovered that a New York gallery had bought some of his sculpture and was displaying it as if it were putting on a Wilmarth show. ''He drew up a sign and picketed the place in protest,'' a friend recalled. ''He was really angry. He was a person who felt deeply and was very attached to principle.''
        Last summer, Mr. Wilmarth resigned from a New York City arts panel after it rejected his proposal to consider children's works in creating a permanent art display at the Brooklyn Zoo. Despite a petition with 200 signatures he helped gather, the panel, part of the Department of Cultural Affairs, decided to consider only three adult finalists.
        ''I'm really sorry that the kids didn't have a chance to have a chance,'' Mr. Wilmarth said. ''A new idea comes up against an entrenched process.'' Disenchanted With Galleries
        Mr. Wilmarth was born June 11, 1943, in Sonoma, Calif., and grew up in Sonoma and Palo Alto, where as a boy he sold tracings from a book of female nudes for a dime each. He went to New York in the early 1960's and earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree at Cooper Union in 1965.
        Three years later, he had his first major exhibit and by the early 1970's critics were calling him a mature artist with a brilliant future. From 1978 to 1982, partly out of disenchantment with commercial galleries, he sold works from his own studio, which he called ''the Studio of the First Amendment.''
        Mr. Wilmarth is survived by his wife, the former Susan Rabineau; his mother, Stephanie Stefanssen of New York, and a sister, Alison Wilmarth of California.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete.
      