
       Yigal Shiloh, an Israeli archeologist who led the excavation of the City of David, died of cancer Saturday in Jerusalem, where he lived and worked as a professor at the Hebrew University Institute of Archeology. He was 50 years old.
        Yigal Shiloh, an Israeli archeologist who led the excavation of the City of David, died of cancer Saturday in Jerusalem, where he lived and worked as a professor at the Hebrew University Institute of Archeology. He was 50 years old.
        The latest search for the ancient hilltop capital of David and Solomon began in earnest in 1978 near the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. The terrain looked forbidding, so the authorities chose a vigorous former paratrooper, Professor Shiloh, to oversee the job.
        Since then, he and hundreds of volunteers have unearthed a wealth of artifacts and stonework, telling a story well beyond the Kings of Judah. Their years of digging laid bare some 20 settlement layers with the evidence of 4,000 years of human habitation, from the earliest cave dwellers through the Bronze Age and Canaanite and Israelite civilizations.
        With perhaps years of more digging to go, the site now is the City of David Archeological Park, on a sloping ridge just south of the walls of Jerusalem's Old City. Lectured in U.S. and Europe
        Yigal Shiloh, born in Haifa, studied ancient Jewish history and biblical and classical archeology at Hebrew University in Jersusalem, earning his Ph.D. in 1975. That year, he became a lecturer at the university, advancing to associate professor in 1981 and full professor in 1984.
        Over the years, he was a guest lecturer at Harvard University, the University of California at San Diego as well as universities in Sweden, Canada, Britain, France, Austria, Italy and South Africa.
        Just a week before Professor Shiloh's death, Mayor Teddy Kollek presented him with the Jerusalem Prize in Archeology.
        Professor Shiloh is survived by his wife, Tamar, a son and a daughter.
      