
       Joseph Cornwall Palamountain Jr., who retired in June after 22 years as the fourth president of Skidmore College, died of cardiac arrest yesterday in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Dr. Palamountain, who had triple bypass surgery within the last year, lived in Saratoga Springs and was 66 years old.
        Joseph Cornwall Palamountain Jr., who retired in June after 22 years as the fourth president of Skidmore College, died of cardiac arrest yesterday in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Dr. Palamountain, who had triple bypass surgery within the last year, lived in Saratoga Springs and was 66 years old.
        During his tenure, Skidmore's enrollment nearly doubled to about 2,100. In addition, the college increased its endowment and moved from downtown Saratoga Springs to a new 650-acre campus on the outskirts of town. Having begun as a school for women 1903, Skidmore began admitting men in 1971 and about 40 percent of the student body now are men.
        Dr. Palamountain was succeeded by Dr. David H. Porter, who previously headed Carleton College in Northfield, Minn.
        Dr. Palamountain came to in Saratoga Springs in 1965 after 10 years at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., to teach political science. At Wesleyan, he became a full professor and chairman of the department of government in 1959.
        During his last four years at Wesleyan, he filled the newly established post of provost, or chief academic officer. As such, he was responsible for development and supervising academic programs and faculty recruitment.
        Dr. Palamountain was born Nov. 26, 1920 in West Newton, Mass., and was graduated from Dartmouth College in 1942, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa. During World War II, he served with the Navy in the Mediterranean and the Pacific and was discharged in 1946 as a lieutenant commander.
        His academic career then took him to Harvard, where he earned his master's and doctoral degrees in political economy and government while working as a teaching fellow, tutor and instructor. He was an assistant professor and senior tutor at Adams House when he departed for Wesleyan in 1955.
        Dr. Palamountain was the author or co-author of several books on politics and the economy, including ''The Politics of Distribution'' 1956, ''Government and the American Economy'' (1959) and ''A Tangled Web of Law, Economics and Politics'' (1965). He also wrote ''The Story of Skidmore College,'' published in 1971.
        He served on the boards of Albany Medical Center Hospital, the Saratoga Performing Arts Center and Yaddo, the artist retreat. Since 1980, he had been a trustee of the State Higher Education Services Corporation, appointed by Gov. Hugh L. Carey.
        The survivors include his wife of 41 years, the former Anne Tonnesen, and two sons, Bromley of Warrington, Pa., and Bruce of Timberline, Ore. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.
      