
       Brand Blanshard, a philosopher, writer and Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Yale University, died after a long illness Thursday at his home in New Haven. He was 95 years old.
        Brand Blanshard, a philosopher, writer and Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Yale University, died after a long illness Thursday at his home in New Haven. He was 95 years old.
        In his 70-year career, Professor Blanshard wrote more than 300 books and articles. Reviewers constantly praised his lucid, elegant writing style.
        He espoused rationalist thought and wrote a trilogy on reason. ''What is reasonable is right,'' he said in an interview in 1977. ''How many people have succeeded in being reasonable for a day, a week, a life?''
        A member of the Yale faculty from 1945 to 1961, when he retired, Professor Blanshard headed the philosophy department from 1945 to 1950, and from 1959 to 1961. 'Last Notable Exponent'
        He continued to write and lecture after retiring. By his own count in 1972, he had already lectured at 140 institutions, including Harvard, the University of Michigan, Wesleyan University and Swarthmore College.
        When he was 92, Professor Blanshard wrote ''Four Reasonable Men,'' analyzing the theories of four philosophers. A reviewer in The New York Times called Professor Blanshard ''the last notable exponent of the Anglo-Saxon and conspicuously high-minded variety of Hegelian idealism that dominated academic philosophy in the English-speaking world in the last quarter of the 19th century.''
        He was a native of Fredericksburg, Ohio, and he earned a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Michigan, a master's degree from Columbia University, a bachelor of science from Oxford University and a doctorate from Harvard. He was a Rhodes Scholar and a Guggenheim Fellow.
        His first teaching post, in 1921, was at the University of Michigan. Four years later, he went to Swarthmore, then to Yale. He was an immensely popular lecturer, a Yale spokesman said, drawing 400 students to introductory philosophy courses. In his last semester, he received a standing ovation at the end of each lecture, the university said. Spoke Against McCarthyism
        With his fraternal twin, Paul, an author, Professor Blanshard spoke out against political and religious injustice. ''If there is one American who more than any other is injuring his country by un-American activities, it is Senator Joseph McCarthy,'' Professor Blanshard wrote in a letter to The Times on June 11, 1953.
        He was president of the American Philosophical Association's eastern division, a fellow of Calhoun College at Yale, a corresponding fellow of the British Academy and an honorary fellow of Merton College, Oxford. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Professor Blanshard is survived by his wife, Roberta Yerkes Blanshard. His first wife, Frances Bradshaw Blanshard, died in 1966. His twin died in 1980.
        A memorial service is to be held Dec. 16 at 2 P.M. in Connecticut Hall on the Yale campus.
      