
       Harold Washington, the first black Mayor of Chicago, the nation's third largest city, died today of a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        Harold Washington, the first black Mayor of Chicago, the nation's third largest city, died today of a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        The heavyset Mayor, who won re-election last spring, slumped onto his desk in his office on the fourth floor of City Hall at 11:01 A.M., while he was meeting with his press secretary, Alton Miller. The Mayor was rushed to Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 1:36 P.M., after life-support mechanisms were removed. Political Jockeying Expected
        The Vice Mayor, David Orr, a 43-year-old Alderman, becomes Interim Mayor until the 50-member City Council votes to appoint an Acting Mayor, who will serve until a general election is held in either 1989 or 1991, mayoral aides said. The Acting Mayor will likely come from the council's membership after considerable behind-the-scenes jockeying by the many neighborhood political factions.
        Mayor Washington, a street-smart politician, was one of the most visible symbols of urban black political power.  [ Obituary, page D19 ] .
        And while he began his first term with a tenuous mandate, he had become the city's most powerful political leader since Mayor Richard J. Daley, who also died of heart failure, in December 1976, at the same hospital.
        Mr. Washington, a former Democratic state legislator, was serving his second term as a United States Representative when he defeated the incumbent Mayor, Jane M. Byrne, and Richard M. Daley, the son of the former longtime Mayor, in the 1983 Democratic primary. He then continued his rapid rise to political leadership here with a narrow victory over a Republican, Bernard E. Epton, in the general election.
        After a rancorous four-year term, Mr. Washington was re-elected lastApril, handily defeating his bitter foe, Alderman Edward R. Vrdolyak. As a result, he appeared to be building his own political dynasty based on monolithic support in the city's growing black population and factional divisions among white politicians. Political Turmoil Likely
        Mr. Washington's death is likely to set off a period of political turbulence and uncertainty in a city where party labels seemed increasingly irrelevant and incumbent mayors have never allowed the emergence of obvious heirs apparent.
        ''The city has lost a very good friend and a great mayor,'' said Mr. Orr, one of the few white aldermen who sided with the Mayor in his battles with the City Council, which usually broke along racial lines. ''We're asking everybody in the city to pull together at this difficult time.''
        The death of Mr. Washington, who was beloved in black neighborhoods here and bitterly disliked in most white wards, stunned supporters and foes alike in the city. Groups of strangers gathered on sidewalks to share the news and, sometimes, to wipe away tears. Jackson Cuts Short Trip
        ''When I was young, we never dreamed there'd be a black Mayor of Chicago someday,'' said Ollie Hawkins, a 73-year-old retired department store salesperson, who stood with the throngs of curious onlookers outside Northwestern Memorial. ''We're going to miss Harold.''
        The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Democratic Presidential candidate who was recently endorsed by Mr. Washington, cut short his trip to the Persian Gulf to attend the funeral, details of which had yet to be announced.
        Mr. Washington, who often said he intended to serve as Mayor for five terms, did not believe in grooming a successor, his aides said.
        ''That was the last thing on his mind,'' said Ernest Barefield, the Mayor's chief of staff. ''He fully intended to be Mayor for 20 years.'' 'In Rare Form'
        Timothy Evans, the Mayor's floor leader in the City Council, is considered to have the best chance of becoming Acting Mayor. Mr. Evans, who is black, has served on the Council since 1973, and has been generally popular, even among Mr. Washington's detractors.
        Speaking at a news conference after the Mayor's death, Mr. Evans said Mr. Washington was ''in rare form'' earlier today in his last official act as Mayor, at a ground-breaking ceremony for low-income housing on the South Side.
        The issue of subsidized housing, with this city's public housing authority under attack for mismanagement, will be among the first concerns for Mr. Washington's successor, as well as reducing crime and stemming the flow of jobs and people from this city of three million into surrounding suburban counties, now home to four million people.
        Chicago was the nation's second largest city when Mr. Washington won the 1983 election, and the biggest up to then to have a black mayor. Los Angeles, whose Mayor, Tom Bradley, is black, has since surpassed Chicago in population.
        Mr. Washington, a former smoker who often chided himself about being overweight, had been complaining of flulike symptoms in recent days. Resuscitation Tried
        In an interview in April, the Mayor said recent physical examinations had deemed him to be in ''absolutely excellent health.''
        Mr. Washington's longtime fiancee, Mary Ella Smith, a schoolteacher, was at his side when he died.
        When Mr. Washington collapsed, his press secretary summoned three security guards who attempted to resuscitate him. Minutes later, parademics arrived and used resuscitation equipment on him on the way to the hospital, which they reached at 11:30 A.M. There, three teams of doctors worked on Mr. Washington, but he never regained consciousness.
        An autopsy showed that the Mayor suffered a 95 percent blockage of major blood vessels in his heart, Dr. Robert J. Stein, Cook County's chief medical examiner, said late Wednesday, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. John Sanders, a cardiologist and chief of staff at Northwestern, said the decision to remove life-support systems was made with family members and friends after it was determined that Mr. Washington had suffered ''irreparable brain damage.'' Tributes Flow In
        When news of the Mayor's death was released, tributes flowed in from throughout the city and around the country.
        William H. Gray 3d, a Pennsylavania Democrat who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, described Mr. Washington as ''a giant in American politics'' who ''virtually worked himself to death for the city of Chicago.''
        Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the Mayor's death was ''especially untimely,'' coming after Mr. Washington's solid re-election in April.
        ''Chicago has achieved a new sense of unity and pride as a strong and progressive city led by a strong and progressive Mayor,'' the Senator said.
      