
       Antoine Magnin, a French chef whose wood-fired cuisine at his bistro, L'Ami Louis, attracted generations of avid followers, died of a heart attack Friday at a medical clinic in Versailles. He was 86 years old.
        Antoine Magnin, a French chef whose wood-fired cuisine at his bistro, L'Ami Louis, attracted generations of avid followers, died of a heart attack Friday at a medical clinic in Versailles. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Magnin and a partner opened the restaurant, at 32 Rue du Vertbois in the Third Arrondissement, in 1930. He toiled in his cramped antiquated kitchen, which was fueled by wood-burning stoves, until a week before his death.
        The Parisian-born and Swiss-reared Mr. Magnin, who lived above the restaurant, had checked into the private clinic in Versailles early in the month.
        L'Ami Louis is famous for its copious portions of hearty country fare, especially roast chicken, thick slabs of foie gras, shoestring potatoes and game. Sold to Executive
        L'Ami Louis has a wide following among foreigners, particularly Americans, who revel in its calculatedly dilapidated interior, unpretentious food and sturdy wines.
        Last year, Mr. Magnin sold the restaurant to Thierry de la Brosse, a 32-year-old executive who had been dining at L'Ami Louis regularly since he was 17 years old.
        ''It took me about three years to convince him that I would be a good candidate to carry on his tradition,'' Mr. de la Brosse said in a telephone interview from Paris. Under the sale terms, Mr. Magnin remained in the kitchen.
        The menu and ambiance will remain the same, Mr. de la Brosse said. The kitchen will be headed by the former sous-chef, who has worked there 18 years.
        Mr. de la Brosse described the tradition-bound chef as having two great loves, ''cooking and women, especially American women.''
        ''Whenever some Americans came back to see the kitchen,'' Mr. de la Brosse recalled, ''Antoine would try to move the husband away so he could talk with the lady.''
        As for the chef's devotion to straightforward rustic food, Mr. de la Brosse said, ''I am confident that the memory of Antoine will be honored best by keeping the restaurant exactly as it is.''
        Mr. Magnin, who was buried at Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris, had no known survivors. His wife, Mathilde, died last February.
      