
       James E. Folsom, a Democrat who served twice as Governor of Alabama, died yesterday at his home in Cullman, Ala. He was 79 years old and had been in failing health in recent years.
        James E. Folsom, a Democrat who served twice as Governor of Alabama, died yesterday at his home in Cullman, Ala. He was 79 years old and had been in failing health in recent years.
        Mr. Folsom, a colorful figure in Alabama politics for nearly half a century, tried repeatedly to win election again, losing in his final attempt in 1982, when George C. Wallace won a fourth term. By then, Mr. Folsom was legally blind and nearly deaf.
        He was a giant of a man at 6 feet 8 inches and 245 pounds. He had nurtured a homey, country-boy image and had built a career as an advocate of the poor and the disenfranchised and as a battler of the ''big mules,'' the state's industrialists and financiers. Known as 'Kissin' Jim'
        In his campaign as a liberal reform candidate for governor in 1947, Mr. Folsom, a widower, became known as Kissin' Jim because of his tendency to embrace the women in his audiences. He told reporters he preferred the nickname Big Jim, and used the campaign slogan ''the Little Man's Big Friend.''
        Critics accused him of excesses with alcohol and women, said he was a wasteful and indecisive administrator and charged that his bumpkin antics degraded the governor's office.
        But Mr. Folsom's popularity remained high at the end of his first term in 1951. State law then prohibited a governor from serving consecutive terms, so he ran again in 1954 and won easily.
        In the segregated era in which he was Governor, when Alabama had a reputation for deep-seated racism, Mr. Folsom was regarded as a moderate or liberal on racial issues. Although he once said in a speech that if he had anything to do with it there would be ''no integration while I am Governor,'' he later said that racial change was inevitable and that violence toward blacks ''cannot be tolerated.'' Advised Martin Luther King
        Friends were fond of recalling Mr. Folsom's 1949 Christmas message, in which he said: ''As long as the Negroes are held down by deprivation and lack of opportunity, the other poor people will be held down alongside them. Let's start talking fellowship and brotherly love and doing unto others. And let's do more than talk about it; let's start living it.''
        In his second term, Mr. Folsom was criticized for sharing a drink in the governor's mansion with Adam Clayton Powell Jr., a black Congressman from Harlem. It was not until 12 years later that he acknowledged having met privately with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and white city officials in an attempt to resolve the Montgomery bus boycott in 1956. Mr. Folsom said later he had urged the young minister to ''read Gandhi and don't fight back.''
        In 1958, Governor Folsom commuted the death sentence of Jimmy Wilson, an illiterate 55-year-old black man who had been sentenced to death by an all-white jury for robbing an elderly white woman of $1.95. The sentence, twice upheld by the Alabama Supreme Court, had drawn protests from around the world.
        Mr. Folsom was defeated in his first three bids for public office: a seat in Congress in 1936 and 1938 and the governorship in 1942. After his two terms as Governor, he ran five times more for that office and in 1968 tried for the United States Senate.
        In his later years, Mr. Folsom's campaigns consisted of little more than placing his name on the ballot. He was not taken seriously by opponents. Opponent of Poll Tax
        But in his early campaigns, he stumped the hamlets and the cities of the state with a hillbilly string band called the Strawberry Pickers, waved a mop with which he promised to clean up government and passed around a scrub bucket for contributions.
        In his two terms in office, he advocated repeal of the poll tax; reapportionment of the Legislature on the basis of one man, one vote; a minimum wage for teachers; old-age pensions; paving all farm-to-market roads, and free textbooks for public school pupils.
        Few of his programs were approved by the conservative Legislature, but the Supreme Court of the United States eventually outlawed the poll tax and upheld the one man, one vote principle.
        Mr. Folsom was also an opponent of the Ku Klux Klan, and in 1949 he successfully pushed a bill aimed against the group.
        In 1962 Mr. Folsom had begun the gubernatorial campaign as the favorite. But the winner, by a wide margin, was Mr. Wallace, who swept into the governor's office for the first time by promising to defy Federal intervention in school segregation. From late 1970 until early 1978, Mr. Wallace was married to Mr. Folsom's niece, Cornelia Ellis Snively. Helped Start Insurance Company
        James Elisha Folsom, the son of a deputy sheriff, was born Oct. 9, 1908, near Elba, Ala. He spent a year each at the University of Alabama and Howard College in Birmingham after graduating from high school, but was forced to drop out of college when a flood heavily damaged the family farm.
        In 1931 he joined the merchant marine. Two years later he became a supervisor in the Alabama Relief Administration, and for a time he was assigned to the Works Progress Administration in Washington. While in the capital he worked with members of Congress from Alabama and studied political science and public speaking at George Washington University.
        He helped start an insurance company in 1937 and worked as an insurance agent as he pursued his political career.
        Mr. Folsom is survived by his wife, the former Jamelle Moore; 9 children, and 10 grandchildren.
      