
       Michael S. Comay, Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations in the 1960's and one of his nation's most influential diplomats, died Nov. 6 in Jerusalem. He was 79 years old.
        Michael S. Comay, Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations in the 1960's and one of his nation's most influential diplomats, died Nov. 6 in Jerusalem. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Comay was one Israel's most prominent spokesmen in one of the nation's most turbulent periods, succeeding Abba Eban in 1959 in defending Israeli interests in the United Nations. He had been living in retirement in Jerusalem since 1979.
        Mr. Comay was Ambassador to Canada from 1953 to 1957, and from 1970 to 1973 he was Ambassador to Britain.
        Mr. Comay fought against the German Army in the North African desert in World War II, achieving the rank of major in the South African infantry. By the end of the war, Mr. Comay, a lean, broad-shouldered man, had become an ardent Zionist with enough conviction to leave his law practice in Cape Town and take his wife, Joan, and their two children to live in what was then British-dominated Palestine. 'A Personal Contribution'
        He said at the time, ''I became convinced that it was essential to work for the creation of a Jewish state, and I felt I had to make a personal contribution.''
        Mr. Comay joined the Jewish Agency and became one of its principal agents in raising money and political support for Israel throughout the world.
        At the same time, his wife, who was trained as an architect, was smuggling arms for the Jewish underground army. Avoiding arrest by the British Army, Mr. Comay was sent to the United Nations in 1947 to help lobby for world support for an independent Israel.
        While fending off Arab diplomatic attacks in the United Nations, Mr. Comay also became one of Israel's leading representatives to Jews in this country. The American Jews constituted a major source of financial and political support. Helped Bring a Shift in Mideast
        While Ambassador to Canada, Mr. Comay scored a coup by helping to persuade that country to sell 24 jet fighters to the Israeli Air Force in 1956. The sale helped to bring about a shift in the military balance in the Middle East.
        Along with his wife, Mr. Comay was in avid demand as a speaker. The couple loved animals - particularly dogs - and were leaders of the Israeli Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
        Mr. Comay is survived by his wife; two children, a daughter, Yael, and a son, Peter, and five grandchildren.
      