
       Al Richmond, a former editor who was convicted of subversion and imprisoned during the McCarthy anti-Communist era, died of pneumonia Friday. He was 73 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        Al Richmond, a former editor who was convicted of subversion and imprisoned during the McCarthy anti-Communist era, died of pneumonia Friday. He was 73 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        Mr. Richmond helped found The Daily People's World, a lively leftist newspaper in San Francisco, and served as its executive editor.
        In 1951, the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided The World's offices, and Mr. Richmond was tried for violating the Smith Act, an anti-subversion law. He and 13 other members of the Communist Party in California were charged with conspiracy to teach and advocate the violent overthrow of the Federal Government. All 14 were convicted and sentenced to five years in prison. Mr. Richmond served one year.
        Ten years later, the United States Supreme Court declared the Smith Act unconstitutional. Critical of Soviet
        Later, Mr. Richmond said of the anti-Communist campaign of Senator Joseph McCarthy, ''I think that a lot of people were silenced, and their withdrawal from social commitment extended long afterward.''
        In his autobiography, ''A Long View From the Left,'' published in 1973, Mr. Richmond criticized the Communist Party for not being more democratic. He had been censured by party leaders in the United States when his paper criticized the Soviet Union for invading Czechoslovakia in 1968. He quit the party but remained a Marxist.
        Mr. Richmond's mother was a Russian revolutionary who spent six years in a czarist prison for radical activity before she came to the United States. She returned to Russia with her son in 1917, and they were arrested by German soldiers. They came back to the United States in 1922. Worked as Union Activist
        Mr. Richmond joined the Young Communist League at the age of 15, and after high school he moved to Philadelphia and helped unionize factory and dock workers.
        He joined the New York staff of The Daily Worker as a writer for a time, then moved to the West and openly published The Daily People's World while other Communist papers went underground.
        He is survived by his wife, Merle; two sons, David and Joseph, and two grandsons.
      