
       Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the most notorious Nazi war criminal in the Netherlands, died here Saturday in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old. No cause of death was given. Mr. Menten, a wealthy art collector, was convicted in the killings of dozens of Jews in the Polish village of Podhoroce while he was a translator with an SS unit of the German
        Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the most notorious Nazi war criminal in the Netherlands, died here Saturday in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old. No cause of death was given. Mr. Menten, a wealthy art collector, was convicted in the killings of dozens of Jews in the Polish village of Podhoroce while he was a translator with an SS unit of the German Army in 1941.
        In 1985, he was freed from prison on good behavior after serving two-thirds of a 10-year sentence. He entered the nursing home last July. Served 8 Months
        Mr. Menten had also served an eight-month prison term in 1949 for collaborating with the Nazis, and in the early 1950's Poland twice tried unsuccessfully to have him extradited for war crimes.
        But for more than 25 years after the war Mr. Menten and his wife, Meta, lived quietly in a 40-room mansion 20 miles outside Amsterdam.
        Then, in 1976, the Amsterdam daily De Telegraaf interviewed Mr. Menten and reported that he would be auctioning some of his art works. The story was published in Israeli newspapers, where it led to accounts of his wartime past.
        Dutch journalists delved further into his background after receiving tips that Mr. Menten had been involved in Nazi atrocities, and their disclosures led to a full-scale investigation.
        He fled to Switzerland but was expelled as an undesirable alien in December 1976. He was brought to trial in Amsterdam in 1977 on charges that while attached to the SS unit he had taken part in the massacre of at least 195 inhabitants of two Polish villages, both now in the Soviet Ukraine. Cited a K.G.B. Plot
        Mr. Menten was acquitted of committing atrocities in one village, but was found guilty of taking part in the killing of between 20 and 30 Polish Jews by the Nazis in Podhoroce on July 7, 1941. Witnesses brought from the area testified that he had been known to them before the war as a businessman with a large estate outside Podhoroce.
        They testified that they saw him on the day of the killings wearing a German uniform and helping round up victims for a Nazi firing squad.
        Mr. Menten maintained that he was a victim of a plot by the K.G.B.
        The Dutch Supreme Court initially quashed his conviction on technical grounds after a pre-trial investigation disclosed evidence that he had received a promise of immunity from prosecution from a former Dutch Justice Minister in 1952.
        Later, the Dutch Goverment successfully appealed the release ruling and an attempt to gain immunity on the grounds of insanity. Mr. Menten was re-tried in 1980 and sentenced to the 10-year term.
      