
       Raymond Rohauer, a film archivist, distributor and producer, died of complications from a heart attack at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan on Nov. 10. He was 63 years old.
        Raymond Rohauer, a film archivist, distributor and producer, died of complications from a heart attack at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan on Nov. 10. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Rohauer, who was born in Buffalo, moved to Los Angeles when he was 16 because of his love for the movies. After attending Los Angeles City College, he established a film society and operated a Hollywood theater where he presented classic films for more than a decade.
        In 1954, Buster Keaton came to the theater to offer Mr. Rohauer prints of his early films. The two men became partners, and - after traveling around the world for a decade acquiring rare Keaton films - Mr. Rohauer staged several film festivals in Europe and the United States in the 1960's that helped to spark the revival of interest in the silent comedian's works.
        The films and other memorabilia that he collected became the nucleus of the Buster Keaton Archives, which are to open in 1989 in Columbus, Ohio. In a 1979 interview, Mr. Rohauer said that Keaton's appeal was based on the fact that he ''is always in a fantasy world, a world we don't live in.''
        Mr. Rohauer developed a collection of more than 10,000 movies, spanning 75 years of film history and ranging from Mack Sennett comedies and German classics to rare silent movies starring Rudolph Valentino, Harry Langdon and Douglas Fairbanks Sr. Although he became entangled in disputes over the rights to various classic films, he distributed many silent and early sound movies through his company, the Rohauer Collection.
        ''His commitment from the beginning was to preserve our early motion-picture heritage,'' said a longtime business associate, Alan Twyman, who described Mr. Rohauer as a tireless collector.
        Mr. Rohauer, who lived in New York for many years, was the film curator of the former Huntington Hartford Gallery of Modern Art in Manhattan during the late 1960's. He also produced several documentaries about Keaton, Laurel and Hardy and other early film stars, and was a consultant to the public-television film, ''Buster Keaton: A Hard Act to Follow.'' The first two parts of the film were shown yesterday, and the third part is to be shown next Wednesday.
        Associates of Mr. Rohauer said they knew of no survivors.
      