
        Dr. A. Clifford Barger, professor emeritus of physiology at the Harvard Medical School, who helped identify the bodily processes that can lead to congestive heart failure, died on Wednesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 79.
        The cause was liver cancer, the school said.
        Dr. Barger spent his entire career at Harvard, starting as a part-time laboratory assistant in 1938 until retiring as Robert Henry Pfeiffer Professor emeritus in 1987.
        He and a team of co-workers identified the neural and hormonal changes that occur in heart failure as well as the role of the kidneys in the process that leads to it. He was a leading researcher of renovascular hypertension and diseases of the coronary arteries.
        Dr. Barger did much of his work in his cardiovascular dog laboratory. He strongly advocated the humane treatment of such animals but upheld the importance of working with them since it gave most students their first exposure to the physiological responses of living creatures.
        Starting in the 1960's, Dr. Barger led faculty efforts to recruit minority students and help them graduate. At the same time he persuaded the American Physiological Society to sponsor a program to bring more minority students into  the study of medicine and science.
        Abraham Clifford Barger was born into a cattle-farming family in Greenfield,  Mass. He graduated from Harvard in 1939 and from the medical school in 1943. After wartime service as an Army first lieutenant in the Climatic Research Laboratory, he returned to Harvard as a research fellow in physiology and advanced to full professor in 1961.
        After retiring, he served as chairman of the Harvard Alumni Fund, saying it was his way of paying back his alma mater with an effort to raise more money for student financial aid. He himself had left medical school with a debt of $3,500, a considerable sum in 1943.
        Dr. Barger is survived by his wife of 52 years, Claire Basch Barger; two sons, Craig of South Easton, Mass., and Curtis of Washington; a daughter, Shael  of Berkeley, Calif.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 29, 1996, Friday
        An obituary on March 15 about Dr. A. Clifford Barger, emeritus professor of physiology at the Harvard Medical School, omitted the name of a survivor. She is his sister Cecille Barger Shure of Highland Park, Ill.
      