
        Frank Daniel, the Czechoslovak-born film maker who inspired two generations of aspiring movie makers in Europe and the United States, where he headed five major film schools, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was  69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Eva.
        Mr. Daniel produced "The Shop on Main Street" before fleeing to the United States when his name appeared on a list of artists to be persecuted as Soviet tanks rumbled into Prague in 1968. This 1965 Jan Kadar film about the persecution of an old Jewish woman won an Academy Award for best foreign film.
        Mr. Daniel had also been the dean of the Prague film school, which, despite Communist repression, became a hive of creativity where such eminent artists as  the film makers Milos Forman, Ivan Passer and Jiri Menzel and the playwright and future Czech leader Vaclav Havel studied, gathered and taught.
        After Mr. Daniel came to the United States, he served as dean of the American Film Institute Center for Advanced Study of Motion Pictures; co-chairman, with Mr. Forman, of the film division of the School of Arts at Columbia University; artistic director of Robert Redford's Sundance Institute, and the first dean of  the School of Cinema-Television at the University of Southern California.
        Mr. Daniel also taught at Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., and lectured on film making and screenwriting at workshops in Europe.  Over the years, he served as mentor to such students as David Lynch, Paul Schrader, Terrence Mallick, Jon Avnet and Martin Brest and nurtured the development of such films as "Desert Bloom," "El Norte" and "Toto the Hero."
        "What I want to see on the screen are stories about the human condition, about people, about today's life in America," he said in 1986 as he prepared to  leave Columbia for the University of Southern California. "I'm not saying those  should be message stories. They can be any genre imaginable. I'm very catholic in my taste, and I like comedies especially. They should be films that people like to see but that give them something to think about and feel about."
        After he retired from the University of Southern California in 1990, Mr. Daniel remained a professor in the the university's graduate screenwriting program and continued to develop scripts and help screenwriters in the United States and abroad.
        Frantisek Daniel was born on April 14, 1926, in Kolin, Czechoslovakia. He received a master's degree in music before he turned to film making, and became  the first foreigner permitted by the Soviet authorities to attend the Moscow Film Institute, where he was awarded a doctorate.
        When he returned to Czechoslovakia, Mr. Daniel became dean of the film school in Prague and presided over a company that produced more than 40 films. Nineteen of his scripts were turned into films, and he directed two of them himself. But  his films butted against the constraints of the Communist authorities, and his company was shut down twice. Yet he continued to make films as well as write plays, a novel and books on storytelling, screenwriting and dramatic theory.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons from a previous marriage, Michal, of Minneapolis, and Martin, of Prague, and a brother, Ladislav, of Olomouc, Czech Republic.
      