
        Joseph Braunstein, a musicologist, teacher and the senior program annotator for the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, died on Sunday in the book-lined Manhattan apartment that he described as his "monk's cell." He was 104.
        Mr. Braunstein's program notes combined scholarly detail and analysis with a  sense of atmosphere that conveyed something of a composer's milieu. Often, he was able to speak from experience rather than as a researcher. He was born during Brahms's lifetime, and as a young violinist and violist in the pit of the Vienna State Opera, he performed "Salome," "Elektra," "Der Rosenkavalier" and "Die Frau Ohne Schatten" under Strauss's baton. He also performed for Mascagni and Lehar. He heard Debussy and Mahler conduct their own works. And he studied composition with Schoenberg.
        Joseph Braunstein was born in Vienna on Feb. 9, 1892, began studying the violin as a child and became an avid chamber music player as a teen-ager. His studies at the University of Vienna were interrupted by World War I. After the war, he joined the Vienna Symphony and the Vienna State Opera. He earned his doctorate in 1920, and seven years later he published his thesis -- a study of Beethoven's "Leonore" Overtures -- as his first book.
        His other passion, mountain climbing, helped save his life. In the late 1920's, Mr. Braunstein proved that Stephan Steinberg, a Bavarian monk, was the first to climb the Konigspitze, in the Southern Tyrol, and published his findings in a book, "Stephan Steinberg: His Life and Writings." He sent a copy to Pope Pius XI, also an amateur mountaineer, who sent Mr. Braunstein a Papal benediction in return. The Pope's letter proved useful a decade later when Mr. Braunstein, who was Jewish, fled from Austria by way of Italy.
        Soon after his arrival in New York City with his wife, Emma, in 1940, Mr. Braunstein became a research librarian in the music division of the New York Public Library. When he was forced to retire at age 65 in 1957, he protested that he was in perfect health and proved it by returning to Europe to climb the  Matterhorn. He continued climbing mountains until he was well into his 80's, and climbed some 200 peaks, 60 of them over 13,000 feet.
        He began his second and third careers -- teaching and writing program notes -- in the late 1950's. He taught music history at the Juilliard School, the Manhattan School of Music and Mannes College of Music, where his students included the pianists Murray Perahia and Richard Goode and the mezzo-soprano Frederica von Stade.
        He wrote liner notes for recordings on the Vox, Vanguard and Book of the Month Club labels. In 1961, he began a 20-year association with Frederic Waldman, the founder of the chamber orchestra Musica Aeterna, assembling programs that often included rarely heard works and writing more than 500 annotations, which were published in a three-volume collection in the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Braunstein also wrote program notes for the Unity Concerts series in Montclair, N.J., and for the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, which still lists him as its senior annotator.
        No immediate family members survive.
      