
        Lyle Talbot, a veteran character actor in movies and on television, died Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 94.
        Mr. Talbot, who began his career as a contract player at Warner Brothers in the 1930's, was one of those actors whose face was more familiar than his name.  He appeared in more than 150 films in a wide spectrum of genres: from romantic comedies to westerns to gangster movies. With his handsome face and stolid manner, he played friends of heroes and, occasionally, leading men, but was perhaps best known for playing villains. In his first film, "Love Is a Racket,"  in 1932, he was a mobster; that was followed by "20,000 Years in Sing Sing" (with Spencer Tracy) and many others.
        I played anything and everything," he said.
        After his film career ended, he switched to television, where he reversed roles, from cads to nice-guy neighbors. For 10 years he played Joe Randolph, Ozzie Nelson's best friend on "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet." He also appeared on "The Lucy Show," "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show," "The Danny Thomas Show" and "The Bob Cummings Show."
        Mr. Talbot, whose original name was Lyle Henderson, was born in Pittsburgh. He grew up in Nebraska and entered show business as a hypnotist's assistant, taking his grandfather's name professionally (his mother's surname was Hollywood).
        In his long career, he acted with many of Hollywood's most celebrated stars,  including Bette Davis, Mae West, Carole Lombard, Mary Astor, Ginger Rogers and Shirley Temple. His last movie role was in "Sunrise at Campobello" (1960).
        Mr. Talbot also acted onstage, starring with Glenda Farrell in "Separate Rooms" on Broadway in 1940 and several decades later touring in "Never Too Late" and "The Odd Couple."
        In the 1980's, he worked in two documentary films produced by his son Stephen, supplying the voice of Dashiell Hammett in "The Case of Dashiell Hammett" and narrating "World Without Walls: Beryl Markham's African Memoir.".
        In addition to his son Stephen, of San Francisco, he is survived by a son, David, also of San Francisco; two daughters, Cynthia, of Seattle and Margaret, of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
      