
        Ray S. Cline, the Central Intelligence Agency's chief analyst during the Cuban missile crisis and in retirement a fierce defender of the agency, died today at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 77.
        Walter Pforzheimer, a colleague from the agency's earliest days, said Mr. Cline had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Cline made his strongest mark at the C.I.A. as a thinker, a ruminator, a worrier. As chief of the agency's staff on the Sino-Soviet bloc from 1953 to 1957, he accurately predicted that Beijing and Moscow would go their separate ways.
        And in 1962, as the head of the directorate of intelligence, the agency's analytical branch, he was among those who concluded that the Russians had installed offensive-missile bases in Cuba, and carried the news to President John F. Kennedy. Nuclear war was narrowly averted when Kennedy and the Soviet Premier, Nikita S. Khrushchev, reached an agreement that provided for the dismantling of the missiles.
        Thirty years afterward, Mr. Cline, who grew a somewhat unruly beard later in  life, stood whisker to whisker with Fidel Castro at a conference of historians in Havana and joked with the Cuban leader about the C.I.A.'s clumsy efforts to assassinate him in the 1960's.
        Mr. Cline was born in 1918 in Anderson Township, Ill., and reared in Terre Haute, Ind. He received a scholarship in 1935 to attend Harvard University and earned two undergraduate degrees and a doctorate before joining the fledgling C.I.A. in 1949.
        He was an archetype of the young men who joined the agency in its infancy: high school football captain, Harvard man, wartime operative in the Office of Strategic Services, the nation's chief intelligence agency in World War II.
        His C.I.A. career included service in covert operations overseas, notably as  a station chief in Taiwan from 1958 to 1962 -- his official title was chief, United States Naval Auxiliary Communications Center -- and as chief of station in Bonn from 1966 to 1969. He believed passionately in the cause of the Chinese  Nationalists, and in retirement served as head of the Taiwan Committee for a Free China.
        Mr. Cline left the C.I.A. in 1969 and served as the State Department's chief  of intelligence analysis. He gave up Government work in 1973, becoming an executive director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown University.
        In the last two decades, he wrote and testified frequently in defense of the  C.I.A., especially when it came under attack from Congressional committees and investigative journalists. In 1977, he said the agency's past practice of paying large sums of money to friendly foreign leaders like King Hussein of Jordan and  Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire had been in keeping with "a morally defensible philosophy of covert political action." And discussing press disclosures of C.I.A. secrets before a Congressional committee, he told his listeners that "the First Amendment is only an amendment." The role of secret agencies in defending  national security, he believed, carried a greater weight.
        Mr. Cline is survived by his wife of 54 years, Marjorie Wilson, and by two daughters, Sibyl MacKenzie and Judith Fontaine, both of Arlington.
      