
        Edmund S. Muskie, the charming if often volatile Democrat from Maine who served as his state's Governor, as United States Senator and briefly as Secretary of State, died early today at the Georgetown University Medical Center. He would have been 82 on Thursday.
        Mr. Muskie's assistant, Carole Parmelee, said he suffered a heart attack in the hospital on Thursday after a successful operation on March 18 to clear a blocked artery in his right leg. He never regained consciousness, she said.
        President Clinton praised Mr. Muskie as "a dedicated legislator and caring public servant." He took special note of the plain-spoken New Englander's involvement with environmental issues, declaring that "generations to come will  benefit from his steadfast commitment to protecting the land."
        Although Mr. Muskie occupied the political spotlight for three decades, first regionally and then nationally, he fell short in two bids for higher office. Nominated for Vice President in 1968, with the country riven by conflict over Vietnam, he seemed to many a more independent, more credible candidate than Hubert H. Humphrey, the Democratic Presidential nominee, who was dogged by his links to the unpopular policies of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Mr. Muskie caught people's imagination by inviting hecklers onto the stage with him. People compared the 6-foot-4-inch Mr. Muskie to Abraham Lincoln so often that he grew to hate the adjective "Lincolnesque," but the Humphrey-Muskie ticket lost a close election to Richard M. Nixon and Spiro T. Agnew.
        Dirty Trick Behind a Setback
        Four years later, with endorsements from most of the nation's leading Democratic politicians, Mr. Muskie was considered a prohibitive favorite for the Presidential nomination. His reputation for probity, many politicians felt, would give him a good chance against Mr. Nixon, who long before the Watergate break-in in June 1972, had been suspected of political dirty tricks by many voters.
        As it turned out, such a trick played a role in an incident that helped doom  the man from Maine.
        All through the New Hampshire primary campaign in 1972, the conservative Manchester Union Leader attacked him, partly on the basis of an anonymous letter accusing him of using the derogatory term "Canuck" in referring to the state's French Canadians. It emerged later that the letter had been sent to the paper by Kenneth W. Clawson, a political aide to Mr. Nixon.
        The Union Leader also ran an article that accused Mr. Muskie's wife, Jane, of smoking, drinking and cursing in an "unladylike" way, in a day when the private  lives of politicians, to say nothing of politicians' wives, were mostly private.
        He finally ran out of patience on the next-to-last Saturday before the primary. Exhausted from a cross-country trip, Mr. Muskie learned of the "Canuck" article on arriving in Manchester. Standing on a flatbed truck outside the Union Leader building, snow falling on his bare head, hands jammed into his overcoat pockets, shoulders heaving, Mr. Muskie passionately defended his wife, castigated the newspaper and its publisher, and then began to weep -- or so many reporters believed.
        He won in New Hampshire, as he had won in preliminary caucuses in Arizona and Iowa, but in none was his margin as large as anticipated.  His poll ratings began to drop, problems began to plague his managers and fund-raisers, and the bandwagon went off the road. Six weeks after the primary season had begun, with  135 delegate votes in his column, he left the contest on April 27.
        Mr. Muskie quietly resumed his duties in the Senate, and his party's nomination for President was won by the more dovish Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, who lost by a huge margin that November to President Nixon.
        Afterward, Mr. Muskie said that melting snow, not tears, had run down his face. Some journalists, including the influential David S. Broder of The Washington Post, who gave the incident more prominence than anyone else, expressed a few second thoughts. But no one was more conscious than Senator Muskie of the effect the drops on his cheeks had on his political future.
        Mr. Muskie explained that he had become "choked up over my anger."
        "It changed people's minds about me," he said about the episode. "They were looking for a strong, steady man, and here I was weak."
        Mr. McGovern said today that he never believed that the "crying" incident "diminished him in the least." Instead, he said, "it was an indication of his humanity and his essential decency."
        Though the incident completely dominated the remainder of the New Hampshire campaign, it may well be that Mr. Muskie would have fared poorly in the rest of  the campaign anyway. He told the historian Theodore H. White, "I doubt whether I'm a candidate who could ever have won in this country this year. I'm a man for a country looking for a healer, not a country in protest."
        Gave New Life To Maine Democrats
        Long-jawed and craggy-faced, Mr. Muskie looked like the typical New Englander and had a classic Down East accent, though his father had emigrated from Poland. He proved so popular in Maine that he revitalized the state's frostbitten Democratic Party, first as a member of the State House, where he served as minority leader, later as a Democratic national committeeman, and then, in 1954, as the state's first Democratic Governor in 20 years.
        After two terms as Governor, he was elected to the United States Senate, where he served until departing in 1980 to become Secretary of State in the final year of the Carter Administration. He replaced Cyrus R. Vance, who had resigned in protest over policy decisions involving the freeing of American hostages in Iran.
        In his brief tenure as Secretary, Mr. Muskie took no major policy initiatives. The handling of the hostage crisis was left largely to Warren M. Christopher, then Deputy Secretary of State, now Secretary of State.
        "It's funny," Mr. Muskie once said. "Of all the jobs I've been ambitious for, this is one that never crossed my mind."
        He was, above all, a creature of the Senate. A blunt man, with a hair- trigger temper that detonated often, he nonetheless became one of the Senate's most influential members. An aide once said that "sham and pretense grate on him like sandpaper." But quick as he was to shout at a colleague, a staff member or  a reporter, he simmered down quickly and bore no grudges.
        When Humphrey picked him as his running mate in 1968, he commented, "I can't  imagine that anyone would have any serious objections." He was right. No one did.
        Hot temper aside, Mr. Muskie developed a reputation for modesty, moderation and good humor. (When his campaign was foundering, he liked to tell a rueful story about a Maine man stuck in the mud with his car. When a passer-by inquired whether he was really stuck, the man replied, according to the Senator, "Well, you could say I was stuck if I had been going anywhere.")
        Flying His Colors Without a Label
        Articulate and serious, Mr. Muskie preferred, unlike many other politicians,  to read copiously himself rather than having aides distill documents into brief  memorandums or present their essence to him orally.
        He put on no airs. When he first arrived in Washington, someone asked him, in keeping with time-honored ritual, whether he hoped to be President some day. He  answered with typical terseness, "This is not a very practical dream, even if I  were inclined to dream, which I am not."
        He backed President Johnson's Vietnam policy without being labeled a hawk, then challenged President Nixon's policy there without being called a dove. He actively supported liberal social causes while fighting to hold down excessive Government spending.
        He was impatient with Democrats who would not change.
        "The blunt truth," he said on Oct. 6, 1971, in a prescient speech at a Liberal Party dinner in New York, "is that liberals have achieved virtually no fundamental change in our society since the end of the New Deal. We should talk  to the country -- to hard hats and housewives and clerks -- to men and women who will support liberal principles if those principles give them programs they can  trust."
        As chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Environmental Pollution, he became  known as Mr. Clean on Capitol Hill, and in his final years as a Senator, he was chairman of the new influential Senate Budget Committee.
        With his term as Secretary of State over when Ronald Reagan took office as President, Mr. Muskie practiced law in Washington. At the time of his death, he  was a partner in the Washington office of Chadbourne & Parke, a large New York law firm.
        "I enjoyed executive responsibilities as Governor and Secretary of State," he said in an 80th birthday interview, when asked whether he thought he would have  made a good President. "You're more clearly accountable because you're more visible, and I liked that. I tend to do a better job if I'm visible and accountable. I may be grumpy, but I like the pressure."
        In 1983 Mr. Muskie achieved one goal, if only in fantasy, by playing the President in "The Crisis Game," on the ABC program "Nightline."
        He was named chairman of a panel set up by the Nestle food company of Switzerland to monitor compliance with an international marketing code on infant formula.
        He gained prominence again when he served on the Presidential commission that investigated the Reagan Administration's handling of the Iran-contra affair. The panel's report, in early 1987, was highly critical of Mr. Reagan's management of the affair, which involved the sale of arms to Iran to obtain the release of hostages held in Lebanon by militant Muslim groups over which Teheran was believed to have influence, and the use of some of the proceeds to finance opponents of the left-wing Sandinista government in Nicaragua.
        In retirement, he divided his time between Washington and a Maine vacation home not far from George Bush's in Kennebunkport. He liked to hunt and fish in the Maine woods and to swim in the cold waters of the Atlantic.
        Early Days of Work And Leadership
        Edmund Sixtus Muskie -- his middle name was that of Popes of the 15th and 16th centuries -- was born on March 28, 1914, in the little paper mill town of Rumford in western Maine. His father, Stephen Muskie, had changed his name from  Marciszewski on settling in this country.  The future Senator's mother was from  a large Polish-American family in Buffalo.
        Young Ed worked his way through Bates College in Lewiston, Me., becoming president of his class and of the student government and shining in debates around the country.
        He graduated cum laude, winning a Phi Beta Kappa key, and earned a law degree at Cornell University in 1939. He then practiced law in Waterville, a rail and agriculture center in southern Maine.
        Mr. Muskie served on destroyer escorts in the Navy in the Atlantic and Pacific theaters in World War II, leaving the service in 1946 as a lieutenant and resuming his law practice before embarking on his political career.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Jane Frances Gray, whom he met when she was working in a Waterville dress shop, and whom he married on May 29, 1948; five children, Stephen, of Peterborough, N.H., Ellen Allen of Reston, Va., Melinda Stanton of Marshfield, Mass., Martha Muskie of Washington and Edmund S.  Jr., of Reston; a brother, Eugene, of Riverside, Calif.; and a sister, Francis Muskie Schouinard of South Portland, Me., and seven grandchildren.
      