
        Alfred P. Slaner, a well-connected corporate executive and philanthropist who made the best of both sides of his family tree, died yesterday at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 77 and is recalled, among other things, as the man who developed Supp-Hose.
        A longtime resident of Scarsdale, Mr. Slaner had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        It was his maternal uncle, Chester Roth, who founded what became the giant Kayser-Roth hosiery company, and it was a second cousin on his father's side, Felix Zandman, who brought the vision and tehnical expertise to what has become  the even larger Vishay Intertechnology company.
        But Mr. Slaner, who eventually ran both companies, made more than passing contributions to each.
        The son of an immigrant peddler from Lithuania who joined the Oklahoma land rush of 1889 and eventually opened the largest store in the little town of Hobart, Mr. Slater grew up there. But it was not before his mother, a New Yorker who had met her husband when he was on a buying trip, had returned to New York so her son would be born in a place where his wasn't the only Jewish family in town.
        Joining the Chester H. Roth Hosiery Company after his graduation from the University of Oklahoma, Mr. Slaner led the company after the 1950's merger that  created Kayser-Roth.
        When his father had to wear ugly rubber leggings after surgery, Mr. Slaner set his technicial staff to work on what became Supp-Hose, a widely copied brand of relatively sheer and attractive nylon support hose.
        Mr. Slaner, who had owned a quarter of Roth's stock before the Kayser merger, made millions of dollars when the company was sold to Gulf and Western in 1975.
        He made many, many millions more from Vishnay, partly because he put up most  of the money and acquired a half interest when his cousin started the company in 1962. It specializes in resistors and other electronic products.
        A major benefactor of the United Jewish Appeal, Mr. Slaner was also a leading contributor to Democratic candidates and liberal causes, enough to win one of his proudest accolades: inclusion on the famous Nixon enemies list.
        For all his renowned business skills, Mr. Slaner's most impressive executive  achievement may have come when he took over as coach of the recreation league basketball team of his 9-year-old daughter, Deborah. Realizing he knew nothing about basketball, Mr. Slaner recruited assistants who did and proved an executive point.
        "We were undefeated for six years," his daughter said.
        In addition to his daughter, now Deborah Larkin of Pelham, N.Y., Mr. Slaner is survived by his wife, Luella; two other daughters, Eugenia Ames of Hastings-on-Hudson and Barbara Winslow of Brooklyn, and five grandchildren.
      