
        Henry B. Fried, an eminent watchmaker who filled his minutes and years with hard work, appreciation of culture and the joys of sport, died on Sunday at his  home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 89.
        Mr. Fried simply went to sleep and did not wake up, his daughter, Caryl Feldmann of Mamaroneck, N.Y., said yesterday, with as much surprise as sadness.  Mr. Fried, widely acknowledged as the dean of American watchmakers, lived as though there would always be another sunrise.
        He was going to lead a group of 40 people to Europe this spring -- looking  at clocks," Mrs. Feldmann said. "He never let up."
        Mr. Fried wrote 14 books, many pamphlets and hundreds of articles on horology, the science of timepieces. He taught and lectured on horology, was an  industry consultant and illustrated his own books. He was a consultant for Random House Dictionary and the Merriam Webster Dictionary.
        He was president of the New York City Horological Society and the New York State Watchmakers Association. He was also vice president of the old Horological Institute of America and was the first American to receive the Silver Medal of the British Horological Institute.
        For decades, he was the watchmaker whom others consulted on the really tough  cases, a fact he attributed in part to his "tweezer skills." While he received just about every honor imaginable in his field, the one he got last fall meant more than most: A clock tower at the new world headquarters of the American Watchmakers-Clockmakers Institute near Cincinnati was dedicated in his honor.
        Mr. Fried's father, who came to the United States from Poland in 1886 and died when his son was 13, was a watchmaker. So was one of Mr. Fried's grandfathers.
        If there was any doubt about the course of Mr. Fried's life, it was dashed during the Depression, when he finished first among some 200 applicants to become the first teacher of watch- and clock-making in the city's technical high school division. Mr. Fried, who had recently graduated from City College of New  York, held that post for 35 years.
        Though he had intricate knowledge of what makes clocks and watches work, Mr.  Fried's interest in time transcended mechanics. He would happily explain how a sailor with a good watch and basic common sense (the Equator is about 24,000 miles around, and there are 24 hours in a day) could figure out where he was, at least in east-west terms.
        No Luddite, Mr. Fried accepted the coming of quartz watches, even though they thinned the ranks of his own calling. He wrote the first book on repairing quartz watches, but in an interview a few years ago, he predicted a shift back to mechanical watches. "People want to see the art of the mechanics," he said. "They want to see that the watch has a heart, a soul. They want to hear it tick."
        Mr. Fried's collection of clocks and watches included an English weight-driven lantern clock dating to 1670.
        In his youth, Mr. Fried played basketball and was an amateur bicycle racer. For much of his life, he was a dedicated walker and runner and ran in several New York marathons. He played golf, loved classical music and went to the opera.
        Not surprisingly, he was a punctual man. "I make it a point to be places on time," he once said. "I'm slightly annoyed when people are late."
        Mr. Fried once said his wife, their children, and their children and their children were the most important things in his life. Shortly after his first great grandchild was born, he boasted, "His first words were 'tick-tock.' "
        Surviving are his wife of 65 years, Tina; a brother, Max, of Marlboro, N.J.;  a sister, Ettie Ritterman of Wesley Chapel, Fla.; his daughter; four grandchildren, and five great grandchildren. A son, Robert, a painter and a professor of fine arts at the University of San Francisco, died 22 years ago.
      