
        Julius A. Shaw, who lost the use of his legs to polio when he was 8 weeks old and spent most of his adult life championing the rights of the disabled, died on March 6 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72, and lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
        The cause was liver cancer, his son, Warren, said.
        Despite crippled legs and a spine warped by scoliosis, Mr. Shaw expressed his determination to lead an independent life by leaving home on crutches as a teen-ager, rising through the ranks of the civil service and becoming a leader in the push for the rights of the disabled. In 1978 he served in the Koch administration as director of the Mayor's Office for the Handicapped.
        In the early 1960's, he helped form the Architectural Barriers Committee, which brought together representatives of groups for the disabled, like the blind and the deaf, that had historically been separate. The coalition focused on the difficulties faced by all people with impaired mobility.
        Mr. Shaw also helped draft laws affecting the disabled, including a policy that gave them priority in obtaining public housing. He lobbied for sidewalk pavements with curbs cut to ease the progress of the wheelchair-bound.
        During the oil crisis of the 1970's, he led a group of handicapped people into the street outside Gov. Hugh L. Carey's Manhattan office, where they blocked traffic until the Governor acceded to their protest against gasoline-rationing policies that failed to address the needs of individuals who were dependent on automobiles.
        Mr. Shaw, whose original family name was Sheikewitz, was born on the Lower East Side in 1924 and grew up in the University Heights section of the Bronx with his mother, who was widowed when he was 3.  Crippled by the polio he contracted in infancy, Mr. Shaw was 9 before he could begin to walk with the aid of a brace, a shoe with an orthopedic extension, and crutches.
        The strength of his personality may have owed something to his awareness throughout those early years of immobility that if he could not hold the attention of the people he was with, there was no way to follow them if they walked away.
        Mr. Shaw graduated from Roosevelt High School and at 18 moved into a fifth-floor walkup apartment. During the civilian manpower shortage of World War II, he got a job as a clerk for the city. In 1971, a year before his disabilities put him in a wheelchair, he was appointed chief of administration of the Department of General Services.
        He nevertheless found time to earn a bachelor of science degree in public administration and community and human service from Empire State College in 1977. He also was the co-author, with Phyllis Tica, of "Barrier-Free Design," an architectural guide published by the City of New York Graduate Center.
        In 1978, Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed Mr. Shaw the director of the Mayor's  Office for the Handicapped, a post Mr. Shaw held until his retirement the following year.
        In addition to his son, of Manhattan, he is survived by a daughter, Jenina Lepard of Lincoln, Neb., and two grandchildren.
      