
        David Packard, who with his partner William Hewlett launched one of Silicon Valley's most innovative electronics companies from a Palo Alto garage with $538 in cash and a calling to "do something useful," died today at Stanford University Hospital. He was 83.
        The cause was pneumonia and complications from pneumonia.
        Mr. Packard and Mr. Hewlett founded the Hewlett-Packard Company in 1938 with encouragement from their old Stanford University engineering professor, Frederick Terman, and built it into a multinational company with $31 billion in  revenue last year. Hewlett-Packard's technical prowess and commercial successes  made it the prototype of the modern technological company and one of the most widely admired corporations in the world. But Mr. Packard also made it famous for a management philosophy called the "HP Way," essentially a formula for unleashing employees' creativity.
        Throughout his corporate career, Mr. Packard was also a sworn enemy of executive pomposity. When Hewlett-Packard's senior managers traveled to New York City in 1961 to celebrate the listing of the company's stock on the New York Stock Exchange, he insisted they take the subway instead of a taxi to Wall Street from the Essex House hotel on Central Park South, where they were staying. They made the wrong connection at Times Square, however, and got lost.
        While he left day-to-day management of Hewlett-Packard more than a decade ago, Mr. Packard remained involved with the company until his retirement as chairman in 1993. He had been semi-retired throughout the 1980's, but returned in 1991, when the company fell into a financial slump. At that time, he became the driving force behind a reorganization that successfully revitalized it.
        Asked upon his retirement what his proudest moment was, Mr. Packard responded instead with some plain-spoken advice on how to succeed: "Do something useful, then forget about it and go on to the next thing. Don't gloat about it."
        Hewlett-Packard's first product was an audio oscillator for testing sound equipment that was based on a design developed by Mr. Hewlett when he was in graduate school. The Walt Disney Company ordered eight of the devices for use in the production of its animated film Fantasia.
        From its early base in electronic-testing and electronic-measuring equipment, Hewlett-Packard moved into computers in the 1970's. Today, it is the nation's second-largest computer company, after I.B.M., and Silicon Valley's biggest employer, with 100,000 workers. The garage is now a California state landmark labeled "the birthplace of Silicon Valley."
        Although Hewlett-Packard is best known for inventions like the first hand-held calculator, the first ink-jet printer and scores of more esoteric scientific instruments, Mr. Packard was most proud of the company's egalitarian  approach to management.
        In his 1995 book "The HP Way," (Harpers Business) Mr. Packard wrote that one  of the objectives of the company was "to maintain an organizational environment  that fosters individual motivation, initiative and creativity, and a wide latitude of freedom in working toward established objectives and goals." And from its early years, the company was at the forefront of the movement to make the company more responsive to workers' needs, embracing a broad-based profit-sharing program, flexible scheduling and an open-door policy with senior  executives.
        It also pioneered several management techniques that have become widely followed in the corporate world and can be found in many business school textbooks. One was "management by walking around," a method by which senior executives stayed in touch by making themselves visible and accessible on the shop floor. Another was "management by objective," the concept that people want  to do a good job and will if managers establish what they want done and let people do it.
        Mr. Packard himself liked to talk to his floor workers, who called him Dave,  and he disliked the ostentatious ways adopted by some of America's corporate chieftains. When he heard that the retiring chief executive of a Fortune 500 company would be paid several hundred thousand dollars a year as a consultant, he joked to friends that he came cheap -- he would give advice to Hewlett-Packard after he left "and it won't cost them a dime."
        An avid Republican all his life, Mr. Packard publicly supported George Bush for re-election four years ago at a time when many Silicon Valley executives, including John Young, Hewlett-Packard's chief executive at the time, were throwing their support behind Bill Clinton.
        In 1969, Mr. Packard left the company to become the United States Deputy Secretary of Defense in the first Nixon Administration, serving under Melvin Laird for three years before returning to California as Hewlett-Packard's chairman. In 1985, he was appointed y President Reagan to be chairman of the Blue Ribbon Commission on Defense Management, which recommended sweeping changes in the system of buying military hardware at a time when military spending had just reached its peak. He was also a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1973 to 1981.
        As a leader in the electronics industry, Mr. Packard was known for expressing his opinions in direct, pragmatic terms. He was an unflagging proponent of engineering education, a critic of America's chronic trade deficit with Japan and, at the height of the cold war, a proponent of increased trade with Soviet bloc nations as the best way to establish lasting world peace. He frequently traveled to Washington, often on Presidential or Cabinet-level invitation, to serve on special Government commissions, to exchange views with elected officials or to testify at Government hearings.
        An avid outdoorsman who enjoyed hunting and fishing, Mr. Packard would often  operate the bulldozer himself for construction or clearing operations on ranches he owned with Mr. Hewlett in California and Idaho.
        Although one of the richest men in America, with his 9.2 percent stake in Hewlett-Packard worth $4.36 billion, Mr. Packard put the bulk of his money into  The David and Lucile Packard Foundation, which supports causes as varied as the  Monterey Bay Aquarium and the Lucile Salter Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford. Mr. Packard's wife, Lucile, who died in 1987, was also involved in the direction of the foundation. Mr. Packard stipulated that upon his death, all of  his 46.6 million Hewlett-Packard shares should go into the foundation.
        Mr. Packard was a trustee of the Herbert Hoover Foundation, the American Enterprise Institute and The Hoover Institution. He served on the board of directors of Stanford University and of several corporations, including the Boeing Company, Caterpillar Tractor, the Chevron Corporation and Genentech Inc.
        Born in Pueblo, Colo., Mr. Packard attended Stanford University, where he received his bachelor's degree and his master's degree in electrical engineering. It was at Stanford that he first met Mr. Hewlett, now 82.
        Mr. Packard, who lived in Los Altos Hills, Calif., is survived by his son, David Woodley Packard, and his daughters, Nancy Ann Packard Burnett, Susan Packard Orr, and Julie Elizabeth Packard.
      