
        Richard A. Riley, former chairman, chief executive and president of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, died on Wednesday at the Manor Care Nursing Home in Akron, Ohio. He was 79.
        The cause of death was a heart attack or a stroke, said his daughter, Janet Altenau of Hudson, Ohio.
        Mr. Riley, who spent his entire career at Firestone, served in sales manufacturing and financial management positions in five Firestone divisions and held the presidency of four of them.
        He became a member of the board in 1970, and two years later was named president of the company, which was based in Akron. He became chief executive and president in 1973, and chairman in 1980. He retired as chairman in 1981 but  remained on the board until 1982.
        In 1975, when he was the corporation's president, Mr. Riley despaired for the free enterprise system in an article he wrote for Ward's Auto World magazine. Contending that "creativity and initiative" were being stifled by what he saw as a proliferation of government laws and regulations, he said it was time to "admit that the term 'free enterprise' is dead."
        "Realistically and regretfully," he wrote, "we must face the fact that the nation now operates under a 'controlled enterprise' system, and unless the headlong dash to regulate our individual and business lives comes to a halt soon, we will even have to eliminate the word 'enterprise.' "
        Mr. Riley was born in Fall River, Mass., and received a bachelor of arts degree from Providence College in Rhode Island in 1937. He joined Firestone as an accountant at its latex plant in Fall River in 1939.
        The company, which has since been acquired by the Bridgestone Corporation of  Japan, is now known as Bridgestone-Firestone Inc. and has its headquarters in Nashville.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by a son, Richard, of Hinsdale, Ill.; two brothers, John T., of Naples, Fla., and Frederic A., of Wallingford, Conn.;  a sister, Eleanor Brault of Fairhaven, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      