
        Solon B. Cousins, who from 1980 to 1990 was national executive director of the Y.M.C.A. of the U.S.A., the national office of the Y.M.C.A movement in the United States, died on Tuesday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 70  and lived in Winnetka, Ill.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Steve Hockensmith, a spokesman for the Y.M.C.A. of the U.S.A.
        In the United States, the Young Men's Christian Association movement has 2,137 local-association members operating a variety of programs from more than 2,200 locations. Based in Chicago, Mr. Cousins ran the national association and  oversaw the growth of the local associations. After years of spasmodic advances  and times of financial adversity, the Y.M.C.A.'s became one of the country's fastest-growing and eclectic nonprofit groups while Mr. Cousins served as national executive director.
        The local associations managed to ride the fitness boom, attracting tens of thousands of additional dues-paying members, particularly in the prosperous suburbs and burgeoning cities of the South and Southwest. When Mr. Cousins retired in 1990, the associations were serving about 13.5 million people, more than half of them women. The associations now serve about 13.8 million people.
        About the time he stepped down, surveys showed that the Y.M.C.A.'s were operating the nation's largest child-care program, with after-school and full-day programs. At that time, 425 Y.W.C.A. centers around the country -- operated separately from the Y.M.C.A.'s -- were also providing fitness and child care programs and serving about two million people, mostly women.
        Not long after Mr. Cousins retired, he said challenges from private business  had obliged the Y.M.C.A. movement to come to terms with its identity and its mission.
        "Our success has made us more vulnerable," he said, "but it also forced us to confront our own values and to reaffirm our larger mission." He and other Y.M.C.A. executives had been putting more emphasis on the Christian values they  said were at the heart of the movement's aspirations: values like love, caring and a sense of selflessness.
        Mr. Cousins, who was born in Richmond, received a bachelor's degree in sociology from the University of Richmond in 1947 and a master's degree, also in sociology, from the University of Chicago in 1951.
        He joined the staff of the Chicago Y in 1944 as director of planning and personnel and went on to become executive director of the Boston Metropolitan Y.M.C.A in 1966. In 1969, he became executive director of the Urban Group, an association comprising the largest Y.M.C.A.'s in North America. From 1974 to 1980, he was president of the United Way of Metropolitan Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife of 40 years, the former Patricia Saam; four sons,  Solon B. Cousins IV, known as Jay, of Albuquerque; Grayland Cousins of Medfield, Mass., Joseph Cousins of Pleasanton, Calif. and Robert Cousins of Seattle; and three grandchildren.
      