
        David M. Gordon, a leader of leftist economic thought and a professor at the  New School for Social Research in New York, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said. He had been awaiting a heart transplant.
        In his research and writings, Professor Gordon concerned himself with what he described as the waste and inefficiency built into corporate America's bloated management ranks.
        In his last book, "Fat and Mean," to be published in May, he argued that, despite reports to the contrary, this "bureaucratic burden" had survived the mass layoffs and downsizings in recent years and remained a source of wasteful conflict between managers and workers.
        Mr. Gordon, born on May 4, 1944, in Washington and raised in Berkeley, Calif., was a member of a prominent family of economists. His father, Robert Aaron Gordon, was chairman of the economics department at the University of California at Berkeley and president of the American Economics Association. His  mother, the late Margaret S. Gordon, was also an economics professor at Berkeley, and his brother, Robert J. Gordon, is a well-known mainstream economist at Northwestern University.
        David Gordon took a different route. After receiving his bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, from Harvard University in 1965, he helped found "The Southern  Courier," a civil rights newspaper in Atlanta. Returning to Harvard, he received his Ph.D. in 1971, taught briefly at Yale University and became a founding member of the Union for Radical Political Economics, an organization of leftist  economists. Mr. Gordon joined the New School's faculty in 1973 and for a while was chairman of the economics department.
        Among his published works, his best known is "Beyond the Waste Land: A Democratic Alternative to Economic Decline," written in 1983 with two other economists. In that work, the authors attributed the wage stagnation and declining economic growth that had set in a decade earlier to inflated production costs and worker-management conflicts stemming from wage inequality,  a phenomenon just beginning to show up in government statistics.
        James Tobin of Yale, a Nobel laureate in economics, hailed the book's reasoning and findings. "It is good to see left-wing political economy come alive," he said.
        Besides his brother, Mr. Gordon is survived by his wife, Diana R. Gordon, who is chairwoman of the political science department at City University of New York.
      