
        Roswell L. Gilpatric, a New York lawyer who played a pivotal role in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, when he was Deputy Secretary of Defense, died on Friday at his home in midtown Manhattan. He was 89.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Samuel C. Butler, the presiding partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swain & Moore, where Mr. Gilpatric was presiding partner from 1966 until his retirement in 1977.
        Mr. Gilpatric, who was born in Brooklyn, became a partner in the firm in 1940. His clients included CBS, General Dynamics, Olin and the Fairchild Camera  and Instrument Corporation, of which he was chairman from 1975 to 1977. He was Deputy Secretary of Defense under President John F. Kennedy and, briefly, under  President Lyndon B. Johnson, from 1961 to 1964. He was also a former Under Secretary of the Air Force and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
        The missile crisis came about after the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev decided to array ballistic missiles in Cuba and began shipping them in July 1962. By mid-October, the Kennedy Administration had learned through U-2 surveillance flights that sites for launching medium- and intermediate-range missiles were being built on the island.
        Essentially, the options Kennedy faced were a naval blockade of the island, an air strike or invasion, or a negotiated settlement through the United Nations.
        Mr. Gilpatric spoke out at a key point in discussions that led Kennedy's decision to impose a blockade, Graham T. Allison, a Harvard professor of government and a former Defense Department official, wrote in his 1971 book "Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis" (Little, Brown)
        Mr. Allison wrote that Mr. Gilpatric's superior, Defense Secretary Robert S.  McNamara, had a "vision of the nuclear specter" that "set him firmly" against an air strike, and that "once McNamara realized that the President required a strong response, he and his deputy Gilpatric eized the blockade as a fallback."
        At a National Security Council meeting, Mr. McNamara argued for a blockade, and McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser, put the case for an air strike.
        Another Kennedy aide, Theodore C. Sorensen, wrote in his 1965 book "Kennedy": "At the conclusion of the presentations, there was a brief, awkward silence. It  was the most difficult and dangerous decision any President could make, and only he could make it." And then, Mr. Sorensen wrote, "Gilpatric, who was normally a  man of few words in meetings with the President when the Defense Secretary was present, spoke up. 'Essentially, Mr. President,' he said, 'this is a choice between limited action and unlimited action, and most of us think that it's better to start with limited action.' The President nodded his agreement. He wanted to start with limited action, he said, and a blockade was the place to start."
        Robert F. Kennedy wrote that the President valued Mr. Gilpatric's views because he respected his calm judgment.
        On Oct. 22, the President declared a blockade. Two days later, Soviet vessels taking missiles to Cuba reversed their courses and on Oct. 28 Khrushchev agreed  to remove the missiles and tear down the launching sites.
        Mr. Gilpatric also played active roles in Kennedy's efforts to increase military spending and reorganize the defense establishment. Mr. Sorensen wrote that, Mr. Gilpatric had been an "indispensible" figure in the Administration.
        Another Kennedy Administration figure, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., wrote that when Mr. McNamara met Mr. Gilpatric, at Kennedy's suggestion, he found, "Gilpatric was easy, resourceful and intelligent, and the partnership was immediately sealed."
        Before serving under Mr. McNamara, Mr. Gilpatric was Assistant Secretary and  then Under Secretary of the Air Force from 1951 to 1953. He was a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 1968 to 1965, and its chairman from 1972 to 1975. Mr. Gilpatric graduated from the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn. in 1924, from Yale College -- where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa -- in 1928 and from Yale Law School -- where he was an editor of the Law Journal -- in 1931. He later lectured at the law school and was a member of the Yale University Council from 1957 to 1962.
        From the 1960's to the 1980's, he was variously a trustee of New York University's Institute of Fine Arts, the New York Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum, of which he was vice chairman.
        Mr. Gilpatric's marriages to Margaret Fulton Kurtz, Harriet Heywood, Madelin  Thayer Kudner and Paula Melhado Washburn ended in divorce.
        Mr. Gilpatric is survived by his wife of five years, the former Mimi Thorne;  a son, John F., of Summit, N.J.; two daughters, Joan Sayres of Readfield, Maine, and Elizabeth Lewis of Felton, Pa., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      