
        Walter Weir, who shook off his early failures as a vaudeville tap dancer and  saxophone player and became a leader in the world of advertising, died on March  2 at St. Mary Medical Center in Langhorne, Pa., a day after suffering a heart attack. He was 86.
        Mr. Weir, a resident of Newtown, Pa., spent more than 40 years in the advertising business, retiring in 1970 to move to the Caribbean. He returned to  the United States at the age of 70 to become a professor of advertising at the University of Tennessee, later taking a similar post at Temple University.
        Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Weir dropped out of school at 13 to try vaudeville, then returned to school, becoming class president, valedictorian and editor of his prep school newspaper.
        His first job was as a mailboy at the N.W. Ayer advertising agency in Philadelphia in 1926. He soon moved to New York, where he worked in almost a dozen agencies in various creative and management positions. In 1948, he opened  his own agency, which was merged with another agency several years later.
        Mr. Weir was a member of the American Academy of Advertising. He wrote several books and many articles on advertising and wrote short stories and poems, which were published in The Saturday Evening Post, Look and other magazines.
        His first wife, Kathryn, died in 1964. Surviving are his wife, Johanna; five  sons, Christopher, of Boston, Anthony, of Exton, Pa., Stephen, of Woodford, Australia, Jeremy, of Beverly, Mass., and Walter, of Penn Valley, Pa.; two daughters, Karyn Walsh of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Brenda Mackiewicz of Southbury, Conn.; two stepsons, Gurnee Barrett of Greenville, Tenn., and Andy Rae of Lenhartsville, Pa.; four stepdaughters, Victoria Zalegowski of Merchantville, N.J., Catherine Cornwall of Bristol, R.I., Shekinah Rae of New Hope, Pa., and Amy Paolette of Perkasie, Pa.; 32 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 18, 1996, Monday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Walter Weir, an advertising executive and professor, misstated the date of his death. It was March 9, not March 2.
      