
        Dr. Claude E. Welch, who enjoyed messing around with medicine so much as a 12-year-old drug-store clerk in small-town Nebraska that he went on to become one of the nation's leading big-city surgeons and medical statesmen, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital, his base during an acclaimed 40-year career.
        He was 89 and lived in a retirement community in Westwood, Mass.
        As a specialist in abdominal surgery, Dr. Welch turned out so many learned articles, delivered so many important lectures and wrote such authoritative manuals that he earned an international reputation. Indeed, he was one of six physicians summoned to Rome in 1981 to consult about the treatment of Pope John  Paul II after the Pope was wounded in the abdomen by an assassin's bullet.
        While he was a renowned surgeon, noted for his expertise in gastrointestinal  diseases and his rapport with patients, what set Dr. Welch apart was his leadership of the panels, committees and boards that set the standards for American medical practice.
        As extensive as his clinical practice was, it was when Dr. Welch left the operating room that he went to work, generally pushing for some overhaul intended to make medical care better and fairer.
        Among other things, Dr. Welch, who failed in a bid in 1975 to become president of the American Medical Association, was in the forefront of efforts to achieve racial equality within the medical profession and was the author of regulations requiring surgeons to continue studying to maintain their certifications.
        It was an index of his success as a leader that at one time or another he served as president of 8 of the 20 medical associations to which he belonged, including both the American College of Surgeons and the American Surgical Association.
        For Dr. Welch, the road to medicine began in the drug store in his hometown of Stanton, Neb., and led through Doane College and the University of Missouri to Harvard, where he received his medical degree in 1932, the same year he began his long association with Massachusetts General, widely regarded as one of the nation's premier hospitals.
        Although he had already caught the eye of Boston's leading surgeons, Dr. Welch laid important groundwork for much of his later career by serving in North Africa and Italy during World War II with the Sixth General Hospital, a sort of  Mass General expeditionary force, whose surgical staff, having bonded together in wartime, returned home after the war to become leaders of the medical profession.
        Dr. Welch, who also taught at Harvard, was so busy that he made it a point to arrive at the hospital by 6:20 A.M. and generally worked late, and on many weekends.
        Retirement in 1972 brought him some extra time, so he wrote his memoirs. The  book, "A Twentieth-Century Surgeon: My Life in the Massachusetts General Hospital," was published by the hospital in 1992.
        He is survived by his wife, Phyllis; two sons, Claude Jr. of Buffalo and John of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
      