
        Harry Ryba, the fudge king of Mackinac Island in Michigan, died on Monday at  Detroit Macomb Hospital in Warren, Mich. Mr. Ryba, who divided his time between  the island and Warren, was 88.
        His wife of 64 years, Ethel, said he had died of a heart attack.
        Mr. Ryba was a major force in the fiercely competitive fudge trade of Mackinac Island, a small resort island in the Straits of Mackinac (pronounced MACK-uh-naw), which connect Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. He had a chain of shops that sold more than 150,000 pounds a year.
        Mr. Ryba enhanced his share of the Mackinac's $5 million-a-year fudge business by taking the preparation of fudge out of back-room kitchens and moving it to the front windows, where tourists could watch the fresh candy flowing across marble slabs. To stimulate the salivary glands further, Mr. Ryba installed fans to waft the aroma onto the street to capture the tourists.
        "Mackinac fudge is a magic name," Mr. Ryba said.
        He parlayed the sweet smell of success into the ownership of the Lakeview and Island House Hotels on Mackinac and a shopping mall there. He held both the presidency and a major stake in the ownership of the Star Line ferry service to  the island. Besides feeding and housing visitors to Mackinac, where automobiles  have been banned since 1901, Mr. Ryba served their transportation needs by renting bicycles from three shops.
        "When he got on the island, it was a quiet little town," said his daughter Gail Weaver. "Mr. Ryba was not a quiet little person, and he transformed that island. He was up in the morning at first light, a hands-on-type person. He was  everywhere, many times where you didn't want him to be.
        "He was really a man of ideas. He could rent one store, then buy another, then start buying hotels, businesses the family had no idea how to run. But they learned."
        An energetic, self-made man with an extensive collection of baseball caps and a penchant for casual dress, Mr. Ryba also sold his fudge to the crowds who flocked to auto and flower shows in places like Chicago and Detroit.
        Mr. Ryba was born in Detroit on June 19, 1907. His parents, Valentine and Katherine, were farmers, and Mr. Ryba grew up in Utica, Mich., a Detroit suburb. The eldest of five children, he left school after the eighth grade and worked on the farm, then became a salesman before going into business for himself.
        In the mid-1930's, he rented a storefront and began selling caramel corn and  popcorn near a movie theater on the east side of Detroit.
        Sometime in the 1940's, Mrs. Weaver said, a Mackinac Islander named Jerome Murdick began making fudge for him. When Mr. Murdick did not report for work one day, Mr. Ryba started making his own.
        He branched out to sell at state fairs and other events that brought out large crowds, and in 1960 he rented a store on Mackinac, which he had never previously visited, and began selling his Mackinac Island fudge.
        Mr. Ryba once offered to mail out a lifetime supply at the rate of three pounds a month to customers willing to pay $2,250 in advance. "A lifetime," he said, "being yours or mine, whichever ends sooner."
        Besides his wife, the former Ethel Du Russel, Mr. Ryba is survived by four daughters, Patricia Grodecki of Roseville, Mich., Janis Decker and Rena Callewaert, both of Fraser, Mich., and Mrs. Weaver of Warren; a son, Kevin of Sandusky, Ohio; two sisters, Eleanora Poplawski of Roseville and Mary Ranney of  St. Clair Shores, Mich., 18 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      