
        John W. Duffy, an Irish railroad man's son who made the transition from County Tyrone to County New York without any noticeable interruption of national allegiance, died at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Sunday, six days before the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade, which had long stepped off to his command. He was 89.
        He was a long-time Transit Authority supervisor and a naturalized United States citizen, but to the Ancient Order of Hibernians and other sponsors of the annual parade, Jack Duffy was forever Mr. Ireland.
        For 18 years, from 1966 to 1983, he was the man with the sash and the cigar, the one identifying him as chairman of the parade formation committee, the other wielded with military precision to direct the parade units out of the side street staging areas and onto Fifth Avenue for the triumphant march uptown.
        At his 45th Street post, Mr. Duffy was as much impresario as traffic cop. The official order of march was listed on his clipboard, but units were forever arriving late or lining up in the wrong place, sometimes creating an unthinkable bagpipe gap.
        "He always had one or two bands stashed away on a side street so he could insert them where they were needed," his longtime friend, John Concannon, recalled yesterday.
        Mr. Duffy, who was born in Omagh and grew up in Dundalk in County Louth, sailed to New York aboard the Leviathan at age 20 in 1929, arriving in a land that seemed as Irish to him as the one he had left.
        As a clerk at Bloomingdale's, he became fast friends with a young fellow immigrant named James J. Comerford, who later became a criminal court judge and  was the parade chairman for 19 years.
        His friendship with the late Judge Comerford didn't hurt, but Mr. Duffy hardly needed any help in advancing through the Irish-American hierarchy. He held high positions in everything from the local County Louth Society to the Hibernians, and he was credited with making the United Counties of Ireland Association's annual feis the largest Irish cultural festival in the United States.
        His work with the parade had one drawback. As formation chairman, he always marched with the last unit -- a step ahead of the Sanitation Department's cleanup crew.
        Well, not always. Once, in 1973, he got to march in front, as grand marshal.
        Mr. Duffy is survived by a son, John B., of Shelton, Conn., and a grandson.
      