
        Dr. Hans Kraus, a specialist in physical medicine and rehabilitation who has  been called the father of sports medicine in the United States, died yesterday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 90.
        Dr. Kraus developed a widely used approach for treating lower back pain, which he used to ease President John F. Kennedy's back problems and those of other well-known patients. He became one of the President's doctors after serving on the President's Council on Physical Fitness during the Eisenhower Administration.
        He was also a mountaineer and rock climber who pursued those sports into his 70's.
        Dr. Kraus helped establish the Presidential council after he completed a 1954 study showing that American schoolchildren were less physically fit than a group of Italian and Austrian children. The study measured muscle strength and flexibility.
        Dr. Kraus, who was associate professor of clinical physical medicine and rehabilitation at the New York University School of Medicine until he retired in 1973, developed trigger-point therapy for the relief of back pain. In this approach, a local anesthetic is injected into tender areas, or trigger points. He showed that lower back pain was related to lack of muscle tone, strength and  flexibility.
        "Dr. Kraus's approach was controversial within the American medical establishment," Susan Schwartz, who is writing his biography, said. "He relied strongly on strengthening and stretching exercises, common sense and avoiding surgery at all costs. His treatments were seemingly old-fashioned, time-consuming and relatively unprofitable for a doctor."
        While many in the medical profession fought Dr. Kraus's approach, it won him  a huge clientele. Patients in his private practice included Katharine Hepburn, Eleanor Roosevelt, Arthur Godfrey, Yul Brynner, Rita Hayworth, Angela Lansbury,  Oleg Cassini, Paulette Goddard, Robert F. Kennedy and the skier Billy Kidd, who  said that Dr. Kraus's treatments made it possible for him to win an Olympic gold medal.
        "He was the father of sports medicine in this country," said Dr. Bruce Grynbaum, clinical director of the Rusk Institute at New York University. "He was the first to actively mobilize fractures. He discovered trigger-point injections in back problems, including President Kennedy's."
        Besides his contributions to the treatment and prevention of injuries, Dr. Kraus is considered a founder of the sport of rock climbing in the United States.
        "He was a famous mountaineer and climber, and along with some other people, developed the most popular rock-climbing areas on the East Coast," said Jim McCarthy, a former president of the American Alpine Club. Mr. McCarthy, a lawyer, was a friend of Dr. Kraus's for more than 45 years.
        He said Dr. Kraus established many classic rock-climbing routes in the Shawangunk Mountains in Ulster County, N.Y. He had a second home in nearby Gardiner.
        Dr. Kraus's extensive experience in the Dolomites, in Italy, where the sport  of rock climbing was more advanced than it was in the United States, made him an innovator to Americans.
        "The use of artificial aids in climbing, what they call 'nailing' today, he brought that over," Mr. McCarthy said. Along with Mr. McCarthy and John Rupluy,  another climber, Dr. Kraus pioneered climbing routes in the Cascades in Washington and the Bugaboos in British Columbia.
        He was born in Trieste, Italy, and his family moved to Zurich during World War I. Dr. Kraus graduated in 1929 from the University of Vienna Medical School. He practiced sports medicine in Austria until he immigrated in 1938 to New York.
        In 1958, he married Madi Springer-Miller, a former national downhill ski champion.
        He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Dr. Ann Hansen of Seattle and Mary Kraus of Amherst, Mass.; a brother, Franz, of Larchmont, N.Y., and a sister, Elisabeth Bumstead of Peekskill, N.Y.
      