
        Odysseus Elytis, a Nobel Prize-winning Greek poet celebrated for his lyrical  and passionate evocations of his country's history, myths and rugged landscape,  died yesterday at his home in Athens. He was 84.
        When Mr. Elytis (pronounced ee-LEE-tis) won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1979, the Swedish Academy said that his poetry, "against the background of Greek tradition, depicts with sensuous strength and intellectual clearsightedness modern man's struggle for freedom and creativeness." He was the second Greek poet to be named a Nobel laureate; the first was George Seferis in 1963. Both were part of a group of poets sometimes called the Generation of the 30's, and had a profound effect on Greek literature.
        The Swedish Academy praised Mr. Elytis's most famous work, "The Axion Esti"  ("Worthy It Is") as "one of 20th-century literature's most concentrated and richly faceted poems." First published in 1959, it was his spiritual autobiography. In an appreciation in The New York Times at the time of the award, Edmund Keeley, who translated Mr. Elytis's work into English, compared him to Walt Whitman in his presentation of "an image of the contemporary Greek consciousness through the developing perspective of a persona that is at once the poet himself and the voice of his country."
        Because sections of "The Axion Esti" were set to music by Mikis Theodorakis,  the poet became especially popular with young people in Greece; they sing his songs in tavernas. Mr. Theodorakis called the epic poem a "Bible for the Greek people." Mr. Elytis once said, "I am personifying Greece in my poems. . . . All the beautiful and bitter moments beneath the sky of Attica."
        Notably reticent, he lived modestly and avoided literary circles. The Nobel Prize, awarded in a year when Graham Greene was reportedly a favorite, brought him sudden international fame. As a result, he became an unofficial cultural ambassador for Greece. Although he published three books of verse in 1979, it was several years before he began writing again.
        In one of the paradoxes of his life, he was called the "sun-drinking poet," because he often wrote about the themes of sun, light and purity, and also "the  owl," for his habit of sleeping during the day and working at night.
        Mr. Elytis was born on Nov. 2, 1911, in Iraklion in Crete. His surname was Alepoudhelis. He took the name Elytis when he began writing poetry in his early  20's in order to avoid association with the family's prosperous soap-manufacturing business. The pen name, he said, was derived from a combination of Greek words meaning Greece, hope, freedom and Eleni, the figure in Greek mythology that personifies beauty and sensuality. All these elements appeared in his poetry.
        In 1914, the Alepoudhelis family moved to Athens, where Odysseus grew up, spending his summers on islands in the Aegean Sea. As a young writer, he was greatly influenced by the Aegean experience and by the poetry of Paul Eluard, the French surrealist. He studied at the University of Athens School of Law, but left before he received his degree in order to devote himself to poetry. His first collection was published in 1939. In the early 1940's, he was an officer in the Greek army, fighting against Italian fascists in Albania. From that wartime experience came the poem, "Heroic and Elegiac Song for the Lost Second Lieutenant of the Albanian Campaign," a tribute to the national consciousness.
        In 1948, he began "The Axion Esti." It was 11 years before the book was published, along with a collection of verse, "Six and One Regrets for the Sky."  Together, the two books firmly established his reputation. In "The Autopsy," one lyric in the collection, the central metaphor is that of Greece personified, surgically opened to reveal essential elements: the olive root, the heat, the sky and sand.
        When he won the Nobel Prize at the age of 68, Mr. Elytis took the long, Homeric view of the award. He said: "The Swedish Academy's decision was not only an honor for me but for Greece and its history through the ages. I believe that  it was a decision to bring international attention to the most ancient tradition in Europe, since from Homer's time to the present there has not been a single century during which poetry has not been written in the Greek language."
        At the time, in characteristic Spartan fashion, Mr. Elytis was living in a two-room apartment in downtown Athens, and he vowed that the award and the $190,000 prize would not change his life. He said his life was based on the same laws governing poetry: "concentration on the basics, elimination of all superfluous things and of all falsehoods."
        When two collections of Mr. Elytis's verse, "Maria Nephele" and "Odysseus Elytis: Selected Poems" (including "The Axion Esti"), were published in the United States in 1982, Rachel Hadas wrote in The New York Times Book Review that his "unique strength is the celebration of a landscape that is his protean theme, his finest invention." It is, she said, a terrain that "is both his beloved Greece and the human body, a vision rooted in the past and passionately  imagined in a kind of floating, timeless present."
        He also wrote many essays and created collages. Art was an important part of  his life, and he frequently wrote about artists he had known, including Picasso, Matisse and Giacometti.
        Mr. Elytis's doctor said that the poet had been hospitalized repeatedly in the last decade. He continued to write, however, and published a volume of poetry last year. A bachelor all his life, he said, "If I married, my poetry would suffer."
        Dimitris Avramopoulos, the Mayor of Athens, said that the city was in mourning and that, as a result of Mr. Elytis's death, "Greece and the world are  poorer in spirit, in creation, in inspiration."
      