
        Ross Hunter, a movie producer devoted to preserving the romance and glamour of Hollywood in films like "Pillow Talk," "Magnificent Obsession," "Imitation of Life" and "Airport," died on Sunday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He  was 75.
        Lisa Gaines, a hospital official, announced the death but did not disclose the cause.
        A Hollywood force in the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Hunter made more than 60 films. Although he worked with many celebrated directors, including George Seaton and Douglas Sirk, he made what came to be called "Ross Hunter movies": tear-jerkers as well as romantic comedies and musicals. His touch was immediately identifiable, from the casting to the set decoration, with Rock Hudson, Doris Day, Jane Wyman, Lana Turner and other stars loving and losing one another in opulent surroundings.
        In the old studio tradition, Mr. Hunter believed wholeheartedly in remakes. Even when he was not redoing someone else's past success, he often seemed to be  imitating himself, recycling plots while changing the actors and the scenery. He proved himself a master at this trade. Many of his films became hits, though only a few of them (including "Pillow Talk" and "The Chalk Garden") won the serious attention of the critics.
        Reviews of Hunter movies sometimes began "Do you remember?" and then named a  film of an earlier era and compared it to the remake. The producer never seemed  deterred by critical aspersion. "I gave the public what they wanted," he said, then listed his gifts to moviegoers: "a chance to dream, to live vicariously, to see beautiful women, jewels, gorgeous clothes, melodrama."
        His approach was that if a picture once was a hit, then do it again, only make it bigger and glossier. Or sometimes, just film it again. This was the case with "The Spoilers" in 1955, the fourth version of a Rex Beach western. Mr. Hunter's movie starred Jeff Chandler, Rory Calhoun and Anne Baxter.
        "Airport," based on the Arthur Hailey novel, was his most profitable venture. This all-star 1970 production was a case of a Hunter original, although the genre -- strangers in jeopardy -- was at least as old as Hollywood. In this instance, the movie spawned sequels, another principal ingredient in the Hunter  formula.
        Mr. Hunter, whose original name was Martin Fuss, was born in Cleveland and began his career as an actor. In the 1940's he appeared in B movies ("A Guy a Gal and a Pal," "Sweetheart of Sigma Chi"). In the 1950's, he made the transition to producer; his first hit was "Magnificent Obsession." This 1954 adaptation of the Lloyd C. Douglas best seller was a remake of a 1935 film, with Rock Hudson and Jane Wyman playing out the love story between a playboy surgeon  and the woman he accidentally blinded. In "All That Heaven Allows," Mr. Hudson and Miss Wyman shifted to the roles of a nurseryman and a wealthy widow.
        The success of "Pillow Talk" in 1959 led to "The Thrill of It All" with Doris Day and James Garner, another popular romantic comedy, but it did not discourage Mr. Hunter from continuing to induce tears from moviegoers. "Back Street" (in its third incarnation) posed Susan Hayward as a famous dress designer with a "back street husband," John Gavin. In "Madame X" (also in its third incarnation), Miss Turner played a martyred mother.
        Even when Mr. Hunter made a thriller like "Midnight Lace," in which Miss Day  was terrorized, the surroundings were elegant. As a bucolic subdivision of the Hunter territory, there were the Tammy movies, starring Debbie Reynolds, and, later, Sandra Dee, as a backwoods girl with a homily for every occasion.
        Among Mr. Hunter's other films were "Flower Drum Song," "Thoroughly Modern Millie" and "The Public Eye." In 1973, he remade "Lost Horizon" with music, and  Vincent Canby in his New York Times review called it "a big, stale marshmallow." Subsequently, the producer shifted to television, where, with time to spare, he  could create mini-series, including a six-and-a-half-hour version of "The Moneychangers" by Mr. Hailey.
      