
        Charles Keyes, the itinerant "parson of the hills," who spent his life delivering stem-winding sermons and dispensing Christmas joy to the mountain poor of five states, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Hickory, N.C. He was 76 and had been preaching since he was 5 years old.
        His family said the cause of death was a stroke.
        Until ill health forced him to turn his ministry over to his son David a decade ago, Mr. Keyes, a seminary dropout who also operated a camp for poor children, spent more than 30 years as a Santa Claus of the hills. He distributed donated toys, blankets, food and clothes to thousands of impoverished children living in the mountain coves and hollows of North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.
        Despite billions spent on Federal aid to Appalachia, Mr. Keyes found the poverty so ingrained that whether he was handing out oranges and candy or a pair of shoes, he was the only Santa Claus many hill dwellers ever knew.
        For some, Christmas came late. Traveling from backwater settlement to settlement to deliver his presents at prayer meeting Christmas parties, Mr. Keyes, who collected toys and other items from trailers scattered over North Carolina, would begin his travels in early December and would not finish until March.
        A native of Glade Springs, Va., who grew up in the deep mountain country of West Jefferson, N.C., Mr. Keyes was 5 when he began his ministry delivering practice sermons to his family's chickens, a tough congregation according to his later account:
        "To get those old roosters saved I'd have to throw them corn," he said, acknowledging that for all the immediate needs his presents satisfied, they were also a way of assembling a quorum for his prayer meetings.
        Mr. Keyes didn't get up on a stump to preach to actual people until he was 12, but once he started it didn't take him long to make a name for himself, or rather several.
        Long before he became known as the parson of the hills, Ripley's Believe It or Not had dubbed him the "Wonder Boy" preacher of Appalachia, and until the 1950's his slam-bang, hell-fire-and-damnation sermons earned him the nickname Sledgehammer Charlie.
        Sometimes his sermons were so powerful, especially when he was railing against the evils of liquor, that they made him enemies in a region where making whisky is regarded as a sacred obligation.
        On one occasion, he said, some moonshiners threatened to cut his ears off and tie them to a tree, "but they settled for just tying me to a tree."
        Mr. Keyes attributed part of the animosity to the fact that his father, who operated a produce store and worked as a policeman, had helped shut down stills.
        "They thought I was an undercover agent," he said, explaining that he had learned to let the moonshiners alone: "I came to know that the chief occupation  of mountain people is making moonshine and their chief interest is religion."
        Mr. Keyes traced his interest in helping the poor to his experiences of growing up in relatively affluent circumstances amid extreme poverty.
        He never forgot the shock of visiting a boyhood friend in a shack so poorly built that his feet got cold from the air blowing through holes in the bare wooden floor.
        In addition to his son of Hickory, he is survived by his wife, Lois; two daughters, Teresa of Virginia Beach, Va., and Barbara Botcher of Las Vegas, Nev.; three sisters, Dorothy Grubbs and Eva Morgan of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Louise Keyes of Welcome, N.C.; a brother, Walter, of Atlantic City; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      