
        Dale Harris, a writer and lecturer on dance, music, art and literature, died  on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was AIDS, said David Vaughan, a friend.
        Mr. Harris wrote and lectured about a wide variety of subjects, ranging in dance from classical ballet to avant-garde modern dance, from black American vernacular dance to Kabuki. He was the dance critic of The Wall Street Journal and a music critic at The New York Post, and contributed regularly to Opera Canada, Opera News and, in England, The Guardian and Opera magazine.
        He was a popular lecturer on ballet, cultural history and opera at the Metropolitan Museum from 1979 to 1995, and two sets of CD's and tapes based on his opera talks became best sellers at the Metropolitan.
        Mr. Harris was born in London to working-class parents. He was a self-made man whose first exposure to culture occurred when his school was evacuated during World War II to King's Lynn, in Norfolk, where he lived in an 18th-century house and learned how to behave in a world where, as he put it, there was the "unimaginable luxury and refinement" of conversation during mealtimes.
        He immigrated to the United States in 1952. After military service here, he attended Harvard University on the G.I. Bill and graduated summa cum laude in 1958.
        Mr. Harris taught at Harvard and at Stanford University in the 1960's, then went on to teach literature and writing at Sarah Lawrence College and the history of dance and opera at the New York University Tisch School of the Arts.  He became a professor of art history and humanities at Cooper Union in 1992.
        He also lectured at Princeton University, in the education department at Christie's auction house in New York City, at the Fort Worth Modern Art Museum and for the opera leagues of Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle. He conducted eight seminars on ballet, art, opera and cultural history at the Smithsonian Institution in the 1980's. In 1991, he gave the Mozart Bicentennial  Lecture at the Salzburg Festival.
        Mr. Harris wrote a novel, "Home Fires Burning," in 1968. He was a frequent contributor to dance and music encyclopedias and anthologies in America and England. He also wrote for some 30 magazines, newspapers and specialized journals in America, Europe and Australia.
        No immediate family members survive. A memorial service is to be held at the  Great Hall of Cooper Union on May 6 at 5:30 P.M.
        Correction:  March 21, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary on Saturday about Dale Harris, a writer and lecturer on the arts  and literature, referred incorrectly to his survivors. They indeed include immediate family members -- his sisters, Audrey Weber of Manhattan and Maureen Goldberg of Amagansett, L.I., and his brother, Jack Harris, of Stamford, Conn.
      