
        John Winthrop Wright, the founder and chairman of Wright Investors' Service,  an investment management and advisory service company, died on Monday at Saint Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. Mr. Wright, a resident of Fairfield, Conn., was 83.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said Barbara Albright, a vice president at Wright.
        Mr. Wright began in securities analysis by evaluating his own stock portfolio, and then started Wright Investors in 1961, developing it as an investment advisory service for Wall Street firms. He had a strong belief in conservative investments based on extensively researched companies. In a 1981 article in The New York Times, Mr. Wright was quoted as saying, "There's a lot of difference between gambling and investing," and characterized most stock traders as gamblers. "I have nothing against it," he added, "but that's not the  business we're in."
        Today, Wright manages $4 billion worth of investments for corporate, municipal and union employee benefit funds, single-country equity funds, endowment and charitable funds, bank trust departments, and individual clients.
        The company also publishes weekly economic reports for its clients -- mostly  banks and brokerages -- discussing general trends and making specific stock recommendations. In 1985, Wright Investors founded the Worldscope Database, a subscriber service offering information on 13,000 companies, some of it dating to Mr. Wright's original 1960's research. Since 1990, Worldscope has been jointly owned and operated by Wright Investors and the Primark Corporation.
        The bulk of Mr. Wright's investment capital came from the sale of the Wright  Power Saw and Tool Corporation, which he founded in 1947 and sold in 1954 to Thomas Industries of Louisville, Ky. After he sold the tool manufacturing company, he was a senior partner for four years in Andris Trubee, a financial consulting firm, and managed the bankruptcy of Rototiller Inc., from 1958 to 1959, before devoting himself to managing his own investment portfolio in 1960.
        Mr. Wright graduated from Amherst College in 1933, and worked for various banking corporations before World War II. He was an active duty commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1940 to 1946.
        Mr. Wright, who was regarded as an expert on the stock market, was interviewed for articles in numerous publications. He testified before various Congressional committees and started the Committee on Developing American Capitalism, an organization devoted to promoting free enterprise and examining public economic policy.
        Mr. Wright is survived by his wife, Mildred.
      