
        William J. Morgan, a psychologist who fought the Germans and Japanese behind  enemy lines in World War II, outfoxed Soviet spies during the cold war and later thwarted American courts by keeping his granddaughter away from a father whom her mother had accused of sexual abuse, died on Saturday in Bethesda, Md. He was 85.
        Mr. Morgan, who died at the home of his son Robert, had been living in Auckland, New Zealand, with his wife, Antonia, their daughter, Elizabeth Morgan, and their granddaughter, now known as Ellen Morgan.
        Anyone who was surprised when Mr. Morgan uprooted himself from retirement in 1987 and spirited his granddaughter away on an international odyssey while her mother spent 25 months in a Washington jail rather than disclose the child's whereabouts did not know much about Mr. Morgan.
        Growing up poor in Rochester, Willie Mitrano, as he was known, was the boy who delivered the morning newspaper to George Eastman, the industrialist and inventor, even though to claim the prized route he had to sleep on the newspaper steps after staying up till midnight hawking papers on a downtown street corner.
        After he graduated from the University of Rochester (Phi Beta Kappa, student  body president, yearbook business manager) Mr. Morgan, who changed his name to avoid anti-Italian prejudice, worked his way through graduate school at Yale by  spending 8 to 12 hours a day lugging 300-pound blocks of ice up tenement stairs.
        When he joined the Army in World War II and his papers were stamped "unfit for overseas duty" because he was legally blind in one eye, he simply tore them  up. By the time his new papers caught up with him he was testing and training spies for the Office of Strategic Services outside of London.
        He later parachuted into occupied France to organize guerrilla attacks on the German army and served behind enemy lines fighting the Japanese in China, experiences described in his 1957 book "The O.S.S. and I."
        As an original member of the O.S.S.'s successor, the Central Intelligence Agency, after the war, Mr. Morgan, who specialized in selecting and training American spies, helped devise a devilishly effective way of dealing with various war heroes who came highly recommended but lacked the intelligence or sophistication to be spies.
        After concluding that they would not know they were being used as bait, he sent them to European capitals where real spies watched as Russian counterintelligence agents studied the unwitting decoys.
        After serving as a psychological strategy specialist with the White House under Harry S. Truman and Dwight Eisenhower, Mr. Morgan, who had worked with children in Rochester and the Bronx before the war, went into private practice with his British-born wife in Merryfield, Va., counseling and testing thousands  of private and public school children in the Washington area.
        Mr. Morgan's last adventure began when his daughter accused her former husband, Dr. Eric Foretich, of sexually abusing their young daughter, an accusation he denied.
        In 1987, after Elizabeth Morgan had failed to persuade the courts to impose what she considered adequate restrictions on Mr. Foretich's visitation rights, the child disappeared, and so did her grandparents.
        Although the simultaneous disappearances made it clear what had happen, it was not until the girl was discovered living with her grandparents in New Zealand in 1990 that the full story emerged of how Mr. Morgan, drawing on his intelligence training, had taken his wife and granddaughter on an underground escape that included stops in Toronto, Vancouver, Glasgow and London before they found what has proved to be permanent refuge in New Zealand.
        Their daughter, who served 25 months for contempt until she was freed by a special act of Congress in 1989, has since joined her mother and daughter in New Zealand.
        Both Elizabeth Morgan and her daughter, now 13, are legally free to return to the United States. The girl's father has said he will not seek visitation rights over his daughter's objections.
        In addition to his wife, daughter, granddaughter and son, Mr. Morgan is survived by another son, James, of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.; a sister, Angel Nardone of Rochester; four brothers, Louis Mitrano and Frank Mason of Rochester, Samuel Mitrano of Tampa, Fla., and Arthur Morgan of Chicago, and four other grandchildren.
        Elizabeth Morgan, while technically free to return, could face sanctions because she is still subject to a court order in the District of Columbia requiring her to produce her daughter. She has refused to do so.
        Correction:  March 21, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary on March 5 about William J. Morgan, a psychologist who took his granddaughter to New Zealand to keep her from her father, misstated the legal situation of the girl and her mother. The girl, now 13, remains abroad with her  mother, Elizabeth Morgan, who was given custody of her by a New Zealand family court provided that she remain in that country. The girl would need the New Zealand court's permission to leave the country and thus is not legally free to  return to the United States.
      