
        Mary Lavin, whose short stories and novels about the conflicts in the hearts  of her fellow Irish men and women transcended mere tales of life in Ireland, died on Monday at a nursing home here. She was 83.
        Ms. Lavin was the author of 19 collections of short stories and three novels. She won three Guggenheim Fellowships and a number of literary awards, including  the Katherine Mansfield Prize, in 1961. Her stories appeared regularly in The New Yorker.
        Her death was front-page news in The Irish Times, whose chief book critic, Eileen Battersby, called her "one of modern Irish fiction's most subversive voices" and said, "Her art explored often brutal tensions, disappointments and frustrations dictating the relationships within so-called 'normal' families."
        Ms. Lavin's favorite form was the short story, which she once likened to "a flash of lightning lighting up the whole landscape all at once." In a 1976 interview she was quoted as saying: "Publishers are definitely unfair to short-story writers. Since the essence of the short story is its conciseness, an addiction to change is an occupational disease and not the self-indulgence publishers think." She also said: "I don't think a story has to have a beginning, middle and end. I think of it more as an arrow in flight."
        Critics often compared Ms. Lavin's work to that of other acclaimed Irish writers, including Liam O'Flaherty and Sean O'Faolain, and also perceived echoes of Balzac, Chekhov and Saki. Her writing influenced the work of others, as well, including the novelist William Trevor.
        Ms. Lavin said her childhood reading of Jane Austen influenced her writing. She said that, as a realist, her writing was "only looking closer than normal into the human heart, whose vagaries and contrarieties have their own integral design." In an appreciation in The Irish Times, Maurice Harmon, professor emeritus of Anglo-Irish Literature at University College in Dublin, wrote: "She  drew upon her own experience. Her stories explore and reflect the patterns of her life: the return of the little girl from America to the strange, puritanical society of her mother's people" in Western Ireland.
        "At the high point of her career," he continued, "she wrote about widows who  refuse to be passive in the face of death, who keep their memories of love and go forth to encounter experience with openness and with the wisdom of years."
        Mary Lavin was born on June 11, 1912, of immigrant parents in East Walpole, Mass. When she was 10 the family moved back to Athenry, in Western Ireland. She  wrote her first short story in 1938. Her first collection, "Tales From Bective Bridge," won the James Tate Black Memorial Prize in 1942 and helped establish her career.
        Her short-story collections include "The Long Ago" (1944), "The Becker Wives" (1946), "A Single Lady" (1957), "In the Middle of the Fields" (1966) and "The Shrine and Other Stories" (1976). She published her first novel, "The House in Clewe Street," in 1945; her second, "Mary O'Grady," appeared in 1950.
        She served as president of the Irish Academy of Letters in 1971.
        Ms. Lavin's first marriage was to William Walsh, a lawyer, who died in 1954.  They had three daughters, who survive. In 1969 she married Michael McDonald Scott, a former Roman Catholic priest, who died in 1990. In recent years her health failed and she lived in a nursing home.
        Her stories were characterized by arresting opening and closing lines. One story, "Happiness," begins with "Mother had a lot to say" and ends: "Mother made the last effort of her life and grasped at Bea's meaning. She let out a sigh, and, closing her eyes, she sank back, and this time her head sank so deep into the pillow that it would have been dented had it been a pillow of stone." Another, "A Memory," begins, "James did all right for a man on his own," and ends, "Under a weight of bitterness too great to be borne, his face was pressed  into the wet leaves and, when he gulped for breath, the rotted leaves were sucked into his mouth."
      