
        A. Harry Passow, one of the first educators to study the needs of intellectually gifted children and one of the first to see the problems of children living in urban poverty, died yesterday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 75.
        Dr. Passow, who lived in Englewood, had suffered a stroke, said officials at  Columbia University, where Dr. Passow was the Jacob H. Schiff Professor Emeritus at Teachers College. He retired in 1991 after 39 years on the faculty.
        In 1954, Dr. Passow was named director of one of the first projects to study gifted children, particularly those in urban schools. The resulting article, "Are We Short-Changing the Gifted?" appeared in 1955 in School Executive, a magazine for education professionals.
        The article became one of the most talked-about and widely reprinted of its time, especially after October 1957 when the Soviet Union launched the first satellite and Americans started looking for better ways to educate their best students, especially those with talent in the sciences and mathematics.
        With two other educators, Dr. Passow wrote "Planning for Talented Youth: Considerations for Public Schools" (Teachers College Press, 1955), which offered a framework for programs to educate the most brilliant students. It, too, was influential among teachers and school administrators.
        Perhaps nothing better defined Dr. Passow's philosophy on education, and on children in general, than his disagreement in 1958 with Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, the architect of the atomic-submarine program, who was a frequent and  outspoken critic of American education.
        Rickover suggested that 25 "elite" high schools be set up around the country  to train young Americans who were especially talented in science and mathematics. His proposal, made while many Americans were worried about catching up with the Soviet Union in the space race, found a serious audience.
        Dr. Passow called the admiral's plan "a perversion of democracy."
        "It goes against the basic idea of American education, which is to give all children an equal opportunity for the best possible education," he said at a convention for elementary school principals in Philadelphia.
        The dispute went on for days, prompting Dr. Passow to repeat his basic position: "Quality education for the academically talented can and must be provided within the framework of universal education." Isolated or poorly conceived programs for the talented, he said many times, did more harm than good.
        In 1962, he presided over a conference at Columbia Teachers College on the special problems of poor children in the cities. Four years later, at the request of Dr. Carl F. Hansen, the Superintendent of Schools in the District of  Columbia, he headed a team that undertook an 18-month study of the District's school system.
        Among recommendations of the study was eliminating "tracking," the assigning  of students to one of several curriculum levels according to their perceived abilities. A Federal judge later said the tracking system was unconstitutional because it steered poor black students into lower levels than their better-off white counterparts, resulting in de facto segregation.
        Dr. Passow wrote dozens of books and hundreds of articles on education. He published several studies comparing the educational systems of various countries. He advised the Government of Israel on creating that country's first  school for gifted adolescents.
        Born in Liberty, N.Y., he was valedictorian of the Liberty High School class  of 1938. He graduated from the State College for Teachers in Albany in 1942 and  taught for a year before serving in the Army Air Forces in the Pacific in World  War II.
        After the war, he taught high school science before entering Teachers College at Columbia, where he received a doctorate in 1951.
        For many years, he was a member of the Englewood Board of Education.
        Surviving are his wife, Shirley, whom he married in 1944; a son, Michael, of  Englewood; two daughters, Deborah Yaffe of Annandale, Va., and Ruth Warburg of San Diego; two sisters, Bess Pizik of Ithaca, N.Y., and Hannah Bernstein of Monticello, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      