
        John Kallos, a molecular biologist who founded the Sustainable Development Initiative, a forum at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business for environmentalists, academics and business people, died on Feb. 25. Dr. Kallos, who lived on Morningside Heights, was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, which he suffered in Riverside Park while returning from playing tennis, his wife, Anita K. Gold, said.
        As a molecular biologist, Dr. Kallos made significant contributions to the understanding of enzymes, hormones and the human immune system. His pioneering studies of human cell response to environmental toxins led him to a major career change in 1993: as he put it, "from genes to G.N.P."
        Deciding to devote himself to the advancement of corporate understanding of the benefits of protecting the earth's ecosystem, he established the Sustainable Development Initiative in 1993. As its executive director, he brought together leaders from various backgrounds to create strategies to implement solutions to  environmental problems.
        Dr. Kallos was the author of more than 50 scholarly articles in publications  like Nature, The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences and The Journal of Biological Chemistry.
        Before joining the business school, he was a research scientist at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, its School of Public Health and its School of International Affairs from 1972 to 1991.
        Before 1972, he held faculty appointments at the Universities of Montreal and Sherbrooke, the St. Louis University School of Medicine and Rockefeller University. He also worked at the Molecular Biology Laboratory of the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Kallos was born in Budapest in 1926 and was swept up in the turmoil of World War II as a teen-ager. The son of a Jewish officer in the Hungarian Army,  he was sent to a Nazi labor camp in Czechoslovakia, escaped from a lethal forced march ahead of the advancing Soviet Army by hiding under a corpse for 10 hours and joined Tito's partisans to fight the German Army. After being wounded, he made his way to Romania, and he returned to Budapest when the war ended.
        Hearing that the Russian Army was deporting all Jews to Paris, he left Hungary and reached Paris, where he lived for 17 years and received a doctorate  in chemistry from the Sorbonne.
        In 1984, he helped establish American Children Held Hostage, a nonprofit agency that seeks repatriation of children smuggled abroad, usually in custody cases.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Kallos is survived by four children from a previous marriage, Catherine Kallos of Montreal, Robert Kallos of Calgary, Alberta, and Stephane Kallos and Genevieve Kallos, both of Manhattan and Montreal, and two stepchildren, Jonathan Pearlroth and Ariana Pearlroth, both of New York City.
      