
        Liam O'Brien, a one-time labor organizer who was such an immediate success when he tried his hand at writing that he went on to a long career as a Hollywood writer and television producer, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        His wife, Claudette, said he had collapsed in her arms and died of a heart attack.
        His younger brother, the actor Edmund O'Brien, who died in 1985 at the age of 69, was already an established movie star when Mr. O'Brien, who had worked as a poet, cartoonist and labor organizer before serving in the signal corps in World War II, decided to take a flyer in show business, with dazzling initial results.
        His first screenplay, for the 1951 movie, "Here Comes the Groom," earned an Academy Award nomination, and his first play, "The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker,"  starring Burgess Meredith in a role reprised for the movies by Clifton Webb, was a Broadway hit in 1954.
        The play, a comedy about a man who commutes between two jobs and two families, has long been a staple of amateur theater, in part because it has so many parts, including a total of 17 children in the two Pennypacker families.
        Although his quick success made the writing seem easy, Mr. O'Brien, a native  of Harlem who was educated at Fordham and Manhattan College, had spent four years writing the Pennypacker script, which was based on an actual double life led by one of his relatives, a man, Mrs. O'Brien recalled yesterday, who laughed louder than anyone on opening night.
        The one-two success punch created a demand for Mr. O'Brien's work, and among  his many later Hollywood credits are "Chain Lightning," starring Humphrey Bogart; "Diplomatic Courier," with Tyrone Power; "Young at Heart," with Doris Day and Frank Sinatra; "Elephant Walk," with Elizabeth Taylor; "Trapeze," with Burt Lancaster and Tony Curtis; "The Great Imposter," with Mr. Curtis, and "The  Devil at 4 O'Clock," with Spencer Tracy and Frank Sinatra.
        By some measures, he had an even greater success in television. He produced and wrote many episodes for "Miami Vice," and "Police Story," and helped write the acclaimed 1978 mini-series "The Awakening Land," starring Elizabeth Montgomery as a frontier woman.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his son, Devin, an associate producer of the Academy Award television show, and two grandchildren.
      