
        Peter Forbath, who lived the swashbuckling life of a foreign correspondent, produced an award-winning television documentary and wrote five books, died on Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marianne Moore.
        Mr. Forbath recently completed his last book, "Lord of the Kongo," a novel about the Portuguese exploration of Africa in the 15th century. It is to be published this fall by Simon & Schuster.
        Mr. Forbath was a correspondent for Business Week magazine before joining Time magazine in the early 1960's. Richard M. Clurman, retired chief of correspondents for Time and Life magazines, yesterday called Mr. Forbath "the quintessential foreign correspondent."
        "He looked like one; he wrote like one," Mr. Clurman said.
        Wherever he worked, Mr. Forbath cultivated "cultural, political and social" sources who enabled him to write authoritatively and vividly, Mr. Clurman said.
        In 1965, Mr. Forbath was expelled by Uganda after investigating reports that  the Congolese rebels were receiving arms through that country. In 1967, he, Mr.  Clurman and the journalist Theodore H. White were with Israeli troops when they  captured the Golan Heights during the Six-Day War.
        Mr. Forbath's first book, the novel "Seven Seasons" (1971), was inspired by what he saw in Prague during the 1968 Soviet invasion.
        He was Time's bureau chief in Madrid and Vienna and later worked in New York  City before resigning to freelance. In the Watergate era, he produced an Emmy-winning documentary on the adversarial role of the press for the public television series "Behind the Lines." Working with the executive producer, Carey Winfrey, he also produced a program about Henry Kissinger and a documentary on the Colorado River.
        Mr. Forbath's other books were "The River Congo," a 1977 account of the discovery and exploration of the Congo, and "The Last Hero," a 1988 novel based  on the explorer Henry Morton Stanley. He also helped William E. Colby, the former Director of Central Intelligence, write the 1978 book "Honorable Men: My  Life in the C.I.A."
        While Mr. Forbath's friends were unanimous in describing him as a gentleman,  he fell short of that standard at least once. Ms. Moore said yesterday that her  husband had been thrown out of high school for punching a teacher.
        She said that if nothing else, that incident had enabled him to avoid the engineering career toward which his father had been nudging him. Newly expelled, Mr. Forbath joined the Army and went to Britain and then on to Paris as a civilian. He was determined to roam and write, Ms. Moore said, and soon had the  foreign correspondent's life he had dreamed about, complete with trench coat and unfiltered cigarettes
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Forbath is survived by a sister, Joan, of Manhattan.
      