
        Walter Sullivan, a science reporter and editor for The New York Times whose articles took him from pole to pole and ranged from the seabed to the shifting continents, and from the nuclear to the cosmic, died yesterday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 78.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        In a career spanning half a century of prodigious scientific endeavor and discovery, Mr. Sullivan expanded the intellectual and geographic boundaries of science journalism. He set the pace for colleagues and competitors with inexhaustible energy, enthusiasm and a keen sense of what was important and interesting. He won nearly every prize offered in science journalism.
        His reports stretched the minds of newspaper readers, as he told of the marvels of the restless earth and violent universe and the audacity of the people trying to understand them. He wrote swiftly, hurrying to be off on the next article, but the authority of his articles impressed scientists. On at least one occasion, physicists said they did not fully appreciate the significance of their discovery until they read about it in Mr. Sullivan's article the next day.
        His bags always seemed to be packed, keeping him ready for the call of Antarctic expeditions, explorations of tunnels deep under Greenland's Arctic icecap, round-the-world experiments of the International Geophysical Year of 1957-58, rocket launchings at Cape Canaveral or the early searches for extraterrestrial intelligence.
        Through his charm and intelligence, Mr. Sullivan cultivated many of the world's leading scientists as friends and sources, and the result was uncounted  "scoops," which he relished. Once, tipped off that an unexpected subatomic particle had been detected, he spent the first half of a football game in the press box at the Yale Bowl talking by telephone with scientists, then left to write the article for the front page.
        Before turning to science, Mr. Sullivan was a foreign correspondent for The Times in China, Korea and Berlin. He became science news editor in 1962 and, in  1964, succeeded William L. Laurence as science editor. In that position, he worked fervently to expand the paper's science coverage and staff.
        Mr. Sullivan held the title of science editor until his official retirement in 1987. He continued to come into the office and write occasional articles until the last two months of his life, and his commitment to science writing never flagged.
        "The discovery that there is order and logic in the seeming randomness of nature can be a quasi-religious experience," Mr. Sullivan once said. "There is great beauty to be found there, and the successful teachers and writers are those who, having glimpsed it, are driven to share it with others."
        Walter Seager Sullivan Jr. was born on Jan. 18, 1918, in New York City. His father was an insurance executive who had been advertising manager of The Times. His mother, Jeanet Loomis, was a pianist and composer, from whom he inherited an enduring love of music. Even late in life, Mr. Sullivan would gather friends on  weekends for a string quartet, taking his place with a cherished 18th-century cello.
        As a young man, in fact, Mr. Sullivan had visions of becoming a music critic. After school at Groton, he majored in English history at Yale University and also studied music. Upon graduation in 1940, he joined The Times as a copy boy but had to shelve his original aspirations with the outbreak of World War II.
        Because of his newspaper background, Mr. Sullivan was first assigned to public relations work in New York. One of his first assignments was to oversee a news conference by a Norwegian whaling ship captain who had chased a German submarine off the coast.
        Mr. Sullivan had no clear guidance from the military on what was off-limits for the journalists to publish, so he advised them to be vague about the ship's  speed. One of the journalists so advised was George Horne, a veteran Times reporter who had been accustomed to dealing with Mr. Sullivan as a copy boy, carrying articles across the newsroom. The New York Post carried an article the  next day about the former copy boy censoring the news, with the headline: "BOY!  I mean Sir."
        As an officer in the Navy, Mr. Sullivan served on destroyers in the invasions of a dozen Japanese-held islands in the Pacific. One of his last articles, published last year in The New York Times Magazine, was an extract of the memoirs he was writing. He gave a stirring account of a pivotal sea battle he was in off Guadalcanal in 1942. At the end of the war, he was a lieutenant commander at the helm of the U.S.S. Overton.
        Back at The Times, and perhaps too restless to settle into music criticism, Mr. Sullivan jumped at the chance to try science reporting with Operation Highjump, a Navy expedition to Antarctica under Rear Adm. Richard E. Byrd.
        In the postwar years, Mr. Sullivan covered early meetings of the United Nations, then got himself assigned to tour the island scenes of recent combat in the Pacific. The B-17 bomber he was in ran out of fuel and ditched in a lagoon off the Philippines. As soon as he recovered from his injuries, Mr. Sullivan received instructions to proceed to China to help cover the outbreak of civil war.
        Lynn Landman remembers his arrival in Shanghai, where her husband, Amos, was  the NBC correspondent, and she was a freelance journalist. One day at the correspondents' club, she saw something familiar about the clothes on a tall, slim man in front of her.
        "These clothes should be familiar," Mr. Sullivan said, when she inquired. "They're your husband's. My plane ditched, I lost all my luggage, and a man at the club told me to ask Amos for a change of clothes."
        The Landmans figured even more prominently in Mr. Sullivan's life when they introduced him to Mary Barrett, a journalist from Spokane, Wash. The two married in 1950.
        Though he had oscillated between the coverage of world politics and the world of science, Mr. Sullivan definitively shifted to science writing with his comprehensive reporting on the International Geophysical Year, which involved most of the world's nations in coordinated studies of Earth's interior, atmosphere and, as it turned out, the space above. The Soviet Union's most startling contribution to the effort was the launching of Sputnik on Oct. 4, 1957.
        On that evening, Mr. Sullivan was at the Soviet Embassy in Washington for a reception for international geophysical scientists. He was interrupted by a telephone call from The Times with the bare details about Sputnik. Mr. Sullivan  took delight in returning to the reception and announcing the news to all gathered, the Russians included.
        In 1958, Mr. Sullivan had a big article and, for once, did not rush into print. Hanson W. Baldwin, then The Times's military-affairs editor, and Mr. Sullivan uncovered secret plans by the Defense Department to explode atomic bombs in the atmosphere to create an artificial radiation belt around Earth, a phenomenon that could be used to disguise a nuclear attack.
        Mr. Sullivan learned many details of the plan, called Project Argus, from scientists. But the two writers, in consultation with editors, made a decision that typified the press's notion of its duty in that cold war era. They decided  to hold off publication for months, until the experiment was actually conducted.
        In "Without Fear or Favor," Harrison E. Salisbury, a former foreign correspondent and assistant managing editor at The Times, wrote of this as an example of journalistic responsibility. "The story," he said, "was held up not because of pressure or interference by the Government or the White House but because responsible journalists on The Times believed this action was in the overall interest of science and the country."
        As Mr. Sullivan covered a greater range of science topics, he also became a prolific book writer. His most notable ones were "Quest for a Continent," about  Antarctic exploration; "Assault on the Unknown," about the geophysical year; "We Are Not Alone," a best seller and prize-winning account of the search for extraterrestrial intelligence; "Continents in Motion"; "Black Holes: the Edge of the Space, the End of Time," and "Landprints," a book about the geological history explaining American topography.
        One of Mr. Sullivan's most coveted awards was the Public Service Medal of the National Academy of Sciences, which made him a nonvoting member of that body. The award had never before been presented to a journalist.
        He visited Antarctica seven times, the last time as a lecturer in 1993. A 30-mile mountain chain there was named the Sullivan Range in his honor. Other honors included the Daly Medal of the American Geographical Society, the George  Polk Award, the Distinguished Public Service Award of the National Science Foundation and several writing prizes from the American Institute of Physics, the American Chemical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The American Geophysical Union even named its science writing award  in honor of Mr. Sullivan.
        Survivors include his wife, Mary; three children, Elizabeth, of Cleveland, Catherine of Cambridge, Mass., and Theodore of Westport, Conn.; two sisters, Constance Carden of Manhattan and Jeanet Curtis of New Haven, and three grandchildren.
      