
        James W. Rouse, the visionary developer who built new towns in the countryside, shopping malls in the suburbs and "festival marketplaces," like Faneuil Hall in Boston, in older downtowns, and later used the profits from these ventures to help generate housing for the poor, died yesterday at his home in Columbia, Md. He was 81.
        The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, said a spokesman for the Enterprise Foundation, the organization Mr. Rouse set up in 1982 to help community groups build housing.
        Mr. Rouse was an anomaly among real-estate developers, a man who sought not  just to make profits but to transform the landscape and the quality of civic life. Long before he retired in 1979 as chairman of the Rouse Company, his development concern, to devote full time to his effort to build affordable housing, he had made his mark as a socially conscious developer, determined to rethink the traditional forms of suburban growth and downtown retail organization.
        Columbia, a new town Mr. Rouse created in the late 1960's on 14,000 acres of  farmland outside Baltimore, was intended as an ordered response to chaotic postwar sprawl and as an integrated, self-contained community. Organized around  nine small "villages," each with several hundred houses and its own small shopping area, by 1981 Columbia had 56,000 residents, roughly 20 percent of them African-American.
        "It's not an attempt at a perfect city or a utopia, but rather an effort to simply develop a better city, an alternative to the mindlessness, the irrationality, the unnecessity of sprawl and clutter as a way of accommodating the growth of the American city," Mr. Rouse said on the occasion of Columbia's 15th birthday in 1982.
        Columbia, like a smaller project closer to Baltimore, Cross Keys, which Mr. Rouse completed in the early 1960's, took its shape as a result of Mr. Rouse's nearly obsessive tendency to observe social patterns. He watched people walk on  streets, he watched them shop, and he watched them socialize in public places, and he sought ways to make his real-estate projects encourage rather than discourage social interaction.
        In a notoriously cautious industry that tends to produce nearly identical products, Mr. Rouse's real-estate developments invariably stood out.  His most ambitious was Columbia, but his most influential effort was surely the Faneuil Hall Marketplace in Boston, in which a set of 150-year-old abandoned Greek Revival buildings were restored and converted into the first "festival marketplace." Faneuil Hall, designed by Benjamin Thompson, inspired an entire genre of urban malls, including Harborplace in Baltimore, the South Street Seaport in lower Manhattan and Grand Avenue in Milwaukee.
        Before Mr. Rouse had turned his inquiring eye to the center of older downtowns, that turf had been largely written off by most national real-estate developers. He envisioned an intersection of the suburban shopping mall and the  more vibrant, intense city street, and if critics sometimes tended to find his festival marketplaces too self-contained, enclosed and cut off from the real life of the city, the public had no such doubts.
        Harborplace was widely credited with bringing about the renewal of Baltimore's waterfront, and Faneuil Hall and the South Street Seaport gave tourists the kind of comfortable town square in the center of unfamiliar cities  that they craved.
        But it was the capstone of his career, the Enterprise Foundation, that Mr. Rouse pointed to with the greatest pride. Calling it "by far the most important  work" of his life, Mr. Rouse and his wife, Patricia, who joined him in forming the foundation, conceived of the nonprofit Enterprise as not only a source of housing money but as a broad-based advocate for the urban poor. The foundation has worked with several hundred local groups in cities around the country, providing expertise as well as money to assist them in developing affordable housing, and by 1994, it had built than 42,500 housing units.
        In a model project in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood, Enterprise expanded  its agenda to organize job-training programs, crime-prevention efforts and school and health-care improvements as well as housing rehabilitation.
        "It's my conviction that we cannot seriously improve the lives of the people  at the bottom of our society today unless we do all these things at one time," Mr. Rouse said last year, explaining why he had broadened the focus of the foundation. "And it is my conviction that it is far easier to do that all at one time than it is to approach the problems by the single-shot approach."
        James Wilson Rouse was born on April 26, 1914 in Easton, Md., the son of a prosperous canned-foods broker who was determined that his five children grow up accustomed to hard work. As a child he rose at dawn to tend a family vegetable garden and sold its produce to a local grocer. His family's comfortable times ended in 1930 with the death of his father, who left so many business debts that the mortgage on the family's house had to be foreclosed.
        He attended the University of Virginia, but left in 1933 when the Depression  required him to work full-time. He earned a law degree at night at the University of Maryland, and in 1936 persuaded a Baltimore bank to open a mortgage department, which he ran until 1939, when he opened the Moss-Rouse Company, a mortgage banker.
        In World War II, he was a lieutenant commander in the Navy Air Force, serving in the Pacific Fleet.
        After the war, Mr. Rouse expanded from underwriting mortgages for one-family  homes to apartment houses and shopping centers, and by 1954 had bought out his partner and reorganized his business into James W. Rouse & Company Inc. He was politically active throughout the 1950's as a liberal Republican supporting urban renewal and helped to organize Baltimore's Charles Center redevelopment project.
        Financed by the profits from his mortgage operation, Mr. Rouse began to develop shopping centers himself. He was one of the first developers to create an enclosed mall with Harundale, a suburban mall south of Baltimore, completed in 1958. He had considered enclosing an even earlier mall in 1955, he recalled years later, "but we lost our nerve."
        He was rarely to lose his nerve again. In the 1960's, Mr. Rouse came to operate on several tracks: as a builder of relatively conventional and highly profitable suburban malls, as the visionary builder of Columbia, and as an increasingly prominent urban advocate.
        Although his projects were generally considered well designed and Mr. Rouse liked to think of himself as supportive of architecture, he made clear that esthetics were never the driving force in his projects, or in his thinking. Columbia, designed by a team of architects and planners under William E. Finley  and Morton Hoppenfeld, has always been viewed as more successful as a social effort than as an architectural one.
        Most of its buildings are comfortable and unexceptional, and the overall look of Columbia is more like a conventional suburb than the real city Mr. Rouse had  hoped it would be. It is the strength of the overall concept, and the consistency with which Mr. Rouse's vision of a cluster of villages of manageable size was realized, that is considered Columbia's great achievement.
        Mr. Rouse, an easygoing man with a rumpled, casual appearance, lived in a house overlooking Lake Wilde, one of Columbia's man-made lakes. In his later years he came more and more to take on the manner of an urban evangelist, preaching a gospel of self-help urban rescue.
        Helping neighborhoods build was not only the right thing to do morally, Mr. Rouse argued, it was cheaper for the country in the long run than letting them deteriorate.
        Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services, called Mr. Rouse "a creative and passionate advocate who did more to revitalize American cities than anyone this century."
        Mr. Rouse was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, by President Clinton last September.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1974 after his divorce from the former Elizabeth J. Winstead, he is survived by three children, Lydia Robinson Rouse, James W. Rouse Jr. and Winstead Rouse.
      