
        Dr. Isadore Roy Gold, who was part of the Army medical team that kept Gen. Hideki Tojo alive after the Japanese military dictator attempted suicide in 1945, died on April 19 at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 80.
        Dr. Gold joined the United States Army in 1940 and served in a MASH unit that island-hopped with American forces across the Pacific.
        The doctor, who was born in Nova Scotia, was a pathologist at Montreal General before coming to the United States and working at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital. He was a captain at the 98th Evacuation Hospital in Yokohama, Japan, on Sept. 11, 1954, when General Tojo was taken to his ward there after trying to kill himself. The general was trying to avoid standing trial for war crimes.
        Known as the chief war lord of Japan and the man who planned the bombing of Pearl Harbor, General Tojo shot himself in the chest at his home when he saw officers at the door waiting to arrest him.
        Among other things, Dr. Gold supervised a blood transfusion that was part of  the effort to save General Tojo's life. The general was later hanged.
        When he left Japan the following March, Dr. Gold took General Tojo's sword with him. It had been presented to him by General Tojo's wife.
        When he finished his tour in Japan, Dr. Gold was commanding officer of the 5th Army Medical Laboratory and was among the first physicians to go into Nagasaki after the United States dropped the atomic bomb. In addition to providing medical support, the group conducted one of the first studies of the effects of the atomic bomb on the survivors.
        After the war, Dr. Gold returned to Brooklyn Jewish Hospital and extended his medical training to obstetrics and gynecology.
        Dr. Gold is survived by his wife, Babs, of Brooklyn; two sons, Matthew, of Andover, Mass., and Daniel, of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; one daughter, Jennifer Levy of  McLean, Va.; six sisters, Ida Rivo of Boca Raton, Fla., Gertrude Bond, Fannie Dworkin, and Lillian Freeman of Montreal, Connie Davis of Toronto and Miriam Goldberg of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and five grandchildren.
      