
        Ilka Tanya Payan, the Dominican-born soap opera star and New York civic leader who played a reluctant but eloquent role in raising AIDS awareness after  disclosing that she was infected with the H.I.V. virus, died on Saturday at her  home in Manhattan. She was 53.
        A friend, Carla Fine, said the cause was AIDS.
        Although she won wide popularity with her portrayal of the villainous Carmen Delia in the Spanish-language television soap opera "Angelica, Mi Vida" ("Angelica, My Life"), Ms. Payan, who came to New York in 1956 and had appeared  in Spanish-language theatrical productions in New York and elsewhere, had already moved onto a broader stage by the time she made her startling announcement in 1993.
        Fearing she would not be able to support herself as an actress indefinitely,  she had become a lawyer in 1981 and had begun a practice in immigration law that drew her increasingly into public affairs, partly because of a column on immigration matters she wrote for El Diario La Prensa.
        By 1992, she had become so prominent in Hispanic political and civic circles  that Mayor David N. Dinkins named her to the city's Commission on Human Rights,  a position she relinquished when Mr. Dinkins left office.
        When she held a news conference in October 1993, to disclose that she was H.I.V.-positive, her announcement sent shock waves through much of Latin America, particularly the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
        That was partly, she said, because there was such ignorance about AIDS among  the Hispanic populations, and such a stigma associated with the disease, that few Hispanic performers with H.I.V. had been willing to risk public disgrace by  acknowledging their infections.
        It was precisely for those reasons, Ms. Payan said, that she had kept her own infection a secret for seven years. The virus, she said, had been detected in her system in 1986, five years after she had been infected by a lover who was an intravenous drug user.
        "I wasn't ready to take on H.I.V. and society's rejection," she said, noting  that she had spent years working as a staff lawyer for Gay Men's Health Crisis not because of her own infection but because of the many friends in the theater  who had died of AIDS.
        It was a measure of the degree of social rejection of people with AIDS that her own three sisters stopped talking to her after she made her announcement. In response, Ms. Payan assigned herself as a messenger of enlightment.
        "My message is, 'Look at me,' " she said in 1993. "I'm a relatively healthy woman. Why must I be looked on as a pariah? I won't accept it."
        And she did not. As a spokeswoman for the battle against AIDS, Ms. Payan made numerous public appearances and was widely interviewed by Spanish-language news  organizations.
        She also received numerous awards for her work, among them a Medal of Honor presented to her by President Joaquin Balaguer of the Dominican Republic.
        For Ms. Payan, however, there was a more cherished sign that her message was  getting through: since her announcement in 1993, her friend Ms. Fine said yesterday, her three sisters had reconciled with her.
        Ms. Payan, who was divorced, is survived by her daughter, Genevieve Gabrielle Gazon of Manhattan, and her sisters, Luisia Payan of Manhattan, Marva Payan of Orange City, Fla., and Lil Palau of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii.
      