
        Ken Doherty, a track and field athlete, coach and author and the longtime director of the Penn Relays, died Friday in Lancaster, Pa. He was 90.
        Doherty was tall, slim and scholarly looking. From 1956 to 1969, he served as meet director of the Penn Relays, a three-day, almost nonstop logistical marvel of running, jumping and throwing events that became the world's largest track and field carnival.
        He would sit on a wooden platform at the northwest corner of the University  of Pennsylvania's Franklin Field, with two telephones in front of him constantly ringing with calls from assistants around the field. Amid the chaos, he was serene. Once, after a vicious verbal attack by a coach, he said of himself:
        "I have seen Ken Doherty insulted. I have never seen him lose his temper or his sense of fair play. To me, when a man loses his temper, it means he is on unsafe ground, so I can't really get disturbed."
        That self-control was a major qualification for a meet director. His first such assignment came in the 1935 Big Ten championships at Columbus, Ohio, where, in a 45-minute span, Jesse Owens of Ohio State broke five world records and equaled a sixth. From 1959 to 1967, he was the meet director of The Philadelphia Inquirer Games, a major indoor competition. In 1959 in Philadelphia, he was the  meet director of the first dual meet between the United States and the Soviet Union.
        Ed Fabricus, an associate with the Penn Relays, recalled him as "a very thorough man with a stubborn streak." "When Bruce Dern, the actor, was a Penn half-miler," Fabricus said, "Ken kicked him off the team because he wouldn't cut his long hair. People told Ken: 'You can't do that. His father is a trustee.' But Ken said he had ground rules, and that was that."
        John Kenneth Doherty was born on May 16, 1905, in Detroit and grew up there.  In 1927, he received a bachelor's degree from Wayne State University, where he was also president of the student body. He earned a master's degree in 1933 and  a doctorate in educational psychology in 1948, both from the University of Michigan.
        In 1928 and 1929, when the 10 events that make up the decathlon were contested in one day instead of the present two, he won the national championship. In the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, he won the bronze medal in the decathlon.
        He was an assistant track coach at Princeton (1929-30) and Michigan (1930-39) and head coach at Michigan (1939-48) and Pennsylvania (1948-58). His books included "Track and Field Omnibook" and "Modern Track and Field," highly regarded instructional manuals.
        He conducted track clinics in the Soviet Union, Finland, Canada and India. He was elected to the Helms Track and Field Hall of Fame in 1961 and the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in 1976.
        His wife, the former Lucile Mason, died in 1993. He is survived by a brother, Charles Doherty of Westland, Mich., two sons, Dr. Lynn M. Doherty of Ocean View, Del., and Dr. Robert W. Doherty of Pittsburgh, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      