
        Arnold Neustadter, whose invention of the Rolodex card file helped so many millions of people organize their professional and private lives that it became  a lasting symbol of the art of networking, died on Wednesday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Neustadter was born in Brooklyn and attended Erasmus Hall High School and New York University before joining his father's box-manufacturing business in 1931. But he soon struck out on his own.
        His first successful invention was a spring-mounted personal phone directory that popped up at a given letter of the alphabet. Mr. Neustadter named the product the Autodex.
        His Zephyr American Corporation followed up with a series of lesser-known products, including the Swivodex, a spill-proof inkwell, and the Clipodex, a device secretaries could clip to the knee as an aid in taking dictation.
        "He was a very organized man," his wife, Dorothy, said yesterday. "He was always one for advancing things that he thought were done in a clumsy way."
        In the 1940's Mr. Neustadter and an engineer developed the cylindrical rotating alphabetical card file that he called the Rolodex.
        It quickly made its way into offices throughout the country, ultimately reaching the status of a cultural icon.  Hollywood moguls and national politicians, with their far-reaching contacts, came to be described in terms of their bulging Rolodexes. A 1986 episode of the television series "Moonlighting" revolved around a purloined Rolodex.
        Mr. Neustadter ran Zephyr American practically singlehandedly until 1961, when he sold the company to the Insilco Corporation of Dublin, Ohio, which later decided to rename the division after its most famous product.
        Despite the advent of computers and electronic pocket diaries, the Rolodex remains popular, said Don Gels, president of the Rolodex division. He said nearly 10 million were sold around the world each year. "A lot of secretaries still keep it on the desk because they don't want to interrupt their software programs," he said.
        Made wealthy by the sale of the company, Mr. Neustadter retained the European rights to Rolodex and spent seven years in London managing the business. But he  began turning more of his attention to philanthropy and art.
        He amassed collections of antique paperweights and modern art, including works by Chagall, Picasso and Henry Moore.
        He was also a strong supporter of Israeli and Jewish causes, and made large contributions to the United Jewish Appeal, the Anti-Defamation League and the Israel Museum.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Neustadter is survived by a son, Richard, of Tel Aviv;  two daughters, Martha Mendelsohn and Jane Revasch, both of New York; a brother,  Morton, of New York; a sister, Ruth Reiss of Florida, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 20, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Arnold Neustadter, the inventor of the Rolodex, misstated the residence of a surviving brother, Morton. He lives in West Palm Beach, Fla., not New York.
      