
        Dr. Lester R. Aronson, a biologist who spent more than half a century studying the sexual and other behavior of fish, frogs and cats for the American  Museum of Natural History, died April 7 at a nursing home in Old Tappan, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Hillsdale, N.J.
        Dr. Aronson, who joined the museum in 1938 and continued to work there long after his retirement in 1977 as curator of the department of animal behavior, had a lifelong interest in natural science.
        He graduated from Cornell in 1932, obtained a master's degree in biology there the next year, then worked as an assistant to his father, a Brooklyn physician, and as a volunteer at the museum until he began his professional career.
        Dr. Aronson, who received his doctorate from New York University in 1945 and  later served as an adjunct professor there and at City College, was so fascinated by what made creatures tick that he spent years studying the African  mouthbreeder, a fish whose males incubate fertilized eggs in their mouths until  they hatch, then spit out the fry -- and eat any that do not swim away fast enough.
        Aside from 15 months he spent in Nigeria studying the mouthbreeder, Dr. Aronson did most of his research at the museum, sometimes with unexpected consequences. There was the time, for example, when 50,000 harvester ants escaped into the museum's woodwork and may well have remained at large had Dr. Aronson not outwitted them. He laid down a succulent food trail and the ants obligingly followed it back into captivity.
        Although his work on fish, frogs and the like was mainly of interest to other scientists, his work with cats drew wider attention.
        It was considered cute in 1949 when Dr. Aronson invited reporters to his laboratory at the museum to listen to a chorus of tomcats, whose eerie nocturnal howls, he had concluded, were not mating calls, as had been widely assumed, but  pure expressions of hostility toward other tomcats.
        But animal lovers were disconcerted in 1976 when it was revealed that for years Dr. Aronson and his associates had been surgically altering cats and cauterizing sections of their brains to study their sexual behavior.
        Dr. Aronson defended his research as necessary to science and specifically to the understanding of sexual mechanisms in humans, whose brains have certain similarities to those of cats.
        In the resulting furor, the cat experiments were ended, but only, the museum  said, because Dr. Aronson had completed his work.
        He is survived by his wife, Evelyn; two sons, Carl of Portland, Ore., and Frederick of Lyndhurst, N.J., and four grandsons.
      