
        Harold (Jug) McSpaden, who won 17 tournaments on the professional golf tour in the 1930's and 1940's against such stars as Byron Nelson, Ben Hogan, Sam Snead and Gene Sarazen but was better known for finishing second, was found dead on Monday with his wife, Betsy. He was 87 and she was believed to be 73.
        The police found their car in a garage attached to their home in Kansas City, Kan., with the ignition turned on. The authorities said the couple had apparently been dead for some time, and they ruled it accidental carbon monoxide poisoning.
        Harold L. McSpaden did not remember when he was first called Jug or why. He  was born July 21, 1908, in Monticello, Kan., and lived most of his life in Kansas City. He became interested in golf when he was 10 years old after seeing  the legendary Harry Vardon play an exhibition in Kansas City.
        He became a caddie and a good golfer, turned pro in 1927 and gained his first tour victory in the 1935 Pasadena (Calif.) Open. He called that "my single biggest thrill."
        In 1939, in a warm-up round for the Texas Open in San Antonio, he shot 59. Although he achieved his major victories in the 1939 Canadian Open and the 1944  Los Angeles Open, his greatest success came during World War II after a severe sinus condition kept him out of military service. In 1944, when golf prizes were war bonds rather than cash, he won seven pournaments.
        "I received $18,000 in war bonds that year," he once recalled. "When I cashed them in, I cleared $134.55."
        In 1949, when Nelson won 19 tournaments, McSpaden won none, although he was the runner-up 13 times, mostly to Nelson. They finished 1-2 so often that they became known as the Gold Dust Twins.
        "I feel like I've lost a wonderful friend," the 84-year-old Nelson told The Associated Press from his home in Roanoke, Tex. "We never had an argument in all the time we played together." Nelson said that last fall, when they last saw each other, McSpaden told him, "If you wouldn't have been born, I'd have been known as a pretty good player."
        McSpaden's success was validated when he was elected to the Professional Golfers' Association Hall of Fame. He was an uncommon man who learned to fly his own plane (with lessons from Barry Goldwater), almost always wore sunglasses, changed clothes three times a day and played a controlled fade.
        He quit the pro tour in 1947 and became a vice president for the Palm Beach Company, which made sportswear. Until two years ago, he competed in the P.G.A. Seniors Championship. In his final appearance, at age 85, he shot rounds of 90 and 81.
        In a 1994 interview, McSpaden delivered this valedictory:
        "I can honestly say that I beat every great golfer of my time head to head -- Hogan, Snead, Sarazen, Nelson, all of them."
      