
        Sydney Howe, an early fighter for clean soil, water and air who was one of the first to balance the needs of the environment with those of poor people in the cities, died on Monday at his home in Holderness, N.H. He was 67.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        By the 1960's and 70's, when protection of the environment became an overriding social and political issue, it was already a deeply personal one for  Mr. Howe, who was an ardent hunter and fisherman, a member of the board of the National Audubon Society and active in many other environmental groups.
        In 1965 he joined the Conservation Foundation, a nonprofit research and educational organization, and became acting director in 1969. He became president later that year and served until 1973.
        The foundation oversaw a yearlong, federally sponsored study of the national  park system that called in 1972 for a return to the philosophy of preserving the parks in their natural state and a reversal of the trend toward transforming them into resorts and playgrounds.
        Mr. Howe was an organizer of the first Earth Day, held on April 22, 1970. A full three years before that, he lamented what he saw as a form of discrimination among conservationists. "We are today a racially segregated profession, heavily populated by so-called rugged outdoorsmen," he declared at a 1967 conference. "Conservation must now be of and for increasingly urban environments and their people."
        In 1976, Mr. Howe founded the Urban Environment Foundation. It was renamed the Human Environment Center, and with him as executive director it continued to focus attention on environmental problems of the poor as it pushed for greater minority participation in jobs related to the environment.
        He sometimes said that his concern for social justice was inherited. His maternal grandfather, Gen. Samuel Chapman Armstrong, commanded an all-black unit of Union soldiers in the Civil War and later founded the Hampton Institute, a Virginia college for black students. Mr. Howe's father, the Rev. Arthur Howe, was its president.
        Whatever its source, Mr. Howe's concern enabled him to perceive more keenly than many others that poor people living in the cities suffered most from air, water and noise pollution.
        "People involved in social issues wondered how I could spend my workdays at conservation and nights at their meetings, because conservation goals sometimes  ran against such things as adequate housing for poor people," he said in a 1984  interview. "But there are larger purposes in life in which conservation and social equity must go hand in hand."
        Mr. Howe favored controls on handguns and urged other outdoorsmen to adopt that stance. "Handguns and hunting are distinctly separate matters," he said, calling privately owned pistols and revolvers "a curse upon the urban environment."
        He was born in Waterbury, Conn., graduated from Yale University in 1949 with  a degree in sociology and received a master's degree in conservation from the University of Michigan in 1954.
        Mr. Howe was an environmental officer with a Quebec aluminum company for three years before moving to Granby, Conn., in 1957 to head the Farmington River Watershed Association, a position he held until he joined the Conservation Foundation.
        His wife of 41 years, Olivia, died on March 25. Surviving are two sons, Matthew, of Portland, Me., and Brock, of Rumney, N.H.; two daughters, Genevieve, of Holderness, and Carrie Douglas of Falls Church, Va.; a sister, Alice Austin of Missoula, Mont.; three brothers, Harold Howe 2d of Concord, Mass., Arthur Howe Jr. of Lyme, Conn., and Richard Howe of Gardiner, Wash., and four grandchildren.
      