
        Hans Blumenberg, a wide-ranging German intellectual known for his writings on modernity, died on March 28 in Altenberge near the northwest German city of Munster. He was 75 and lived in Altenberge.
        After teaching at several universities in what was then West Germany, Dr. Blumenberg took the post of professor of philosophy at the University of Munster in 1970 and remained there until his retirement in 1985.
        In 1994, Sunil Khilnani, an intellectual historian, wrote in The New York Times Book Review: "The urge to limn modernity, the 'modern,' is a deeply Continental passion. There are two ways in which its history has been recounted: the encompassing Teutonic report, which from Hegel to Hans Blumenberg burrows out the essential rationality and legitimacy of modernity, and a dandyish, Gallic manner -- the essayistic form from Joseph de Maistre to E. M. Cioran, which ruminates (or rages at) the ironies and delusions of the supposedly disabused modern."
        William Connolly, a political theorist at Johns Hopkins University, wrote in  1988, also in The Times Book Review, that Dr. Blumenberg had "traced how those premodern philosophies in the West that assumed there is a providential God destroyed their own credibility as they tried to perfect themselves, leaving the modern age with no option but to adopt the principle of 'self-assertion' in its  transactions with nature."
        Dr. Blumenberg's writings include the book "The Legitimacy of the Modern Age," which came out in Germany in 1967 and was published in the United States in 1985. It affirmed, as the Swiss newspaper Neue Zurcher Zeitung put it in its  obituary last week, that the modern era was not "a deviation, a secularization of the Christian concept of Creation," but "an independent, self-generated epoch of theoretical reorientation."
        A 1975 book by Dr. Blumenberg, "The Genesis of the Copernican World," published in the United States in 1989, was described by the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung as an "anthropology of discovery" that followed "the finest ramifications of the theoretical movements."
      