
        Dante Giacosa, the auto designer whose career at Fiat spanned nearly half a century and who brought forth such models as the Fiat 500, which motorized Italy in the 1950's, died Sunday in Turin. He was 91.
        Mr. Giacosa was born in Rome while his father, a Piedmontese, was doing military service here. He obtained a degree from the Polytechnic University in Turin, the chief city of Piedmont and Fiat's headquarters, and joined the auto maker in 1928.
        In the 1930's, when Britain had its legendary Morris 8 and Hitler's Germany  the Volkswagen, Italy under Mussolini got its car for the masses. Giovanni Agnelli, father of the recently retired Fiat chairman, Gianni Agnelli, ordered it from his engineers.
        Fiat's chief designer, Oreste Lardone, produced a model with an air-cooled engine that caught fire on its first test run with the elder Mr. Agnelli aboard. Mr. Lardone was dismissed, and Mr. Giacosa's proposal for a water-cooled, rear-wheel-drive version with a forward-placed engine was accepted. The 500 came out in 1936 and was lovingly dubbed by Italians Topolino, or Mickey Mouse, for its toy-store looks and roller-skate wheels.
        In 1957, the car was reissued as the Nuova 500 and helped revive the spirits  of Italians still recovering from the destruction of World War II. Until it was  discontinued in 1975, the 500 sold 3.6 million units in various versions. Thousands remain in use, valued as ideal cars for negotiating narrow medieval streets.
        Indeed, among Italy's smart set, it is still considered chic to keep an old 500 next to the Alfa Romeo or BMW for the fast run to the trattoria -- simply because it can be parked in spaces otherwise large enough for a motorcycle.
        Earlier, in 1951, Mr. Giacosa had designed the Fiat 600, a model with a forward-placed engine and rear-wheel traction. For months, he had toiled to form the shape of the new car in plaster, producing three models. Though Fiat management preferred a version with forward engine and rear-wheel drive, Mr. Giacosa persuaded them to take the revolutionary step of choosing one with a rear engine, a rarity at the time but a solution that Fiat would favor for decades.
        "What terror!" he later confided. "I knew that investments for millions and millions were at stake."
        The 600 went on to rival the 500, and Mr. Giacosa later designed dozens of other models for Fiat until his retirement in 1975 as head of the its research and development center. Even then he continued to help Fiat from his own engineering company.
        "I would say Giacosa made Fiat what it is today," said Paolo Cantarella, Fiat's chief executive. "In Giacosa's days, the designer took a blank sheet of paper and started there to build a car. Giacosa designed everything, including the motor."
        In 1991, when Fiat revived the mystique of the 500 by issuing a mini-model called the Cinquecento, Mr. Giacosa was invited to the unveiling in Nice, France, and was honored with a model of the original 500.
        But Mr. Giacosa, an intuitive designer who was a great admirer of the art of  Goya and Picasso, never made his peace with modern design tools like computers and wind tunnels. "The electronic calculator compresses creativity," he once said. "It can only rapidly verify results, not anticipate them."
        A lecturer for many years at the Turin Polytechnic, in 1979 he published a memoir, "Forty Years of Design at Fiat."
        Mr. Giacosa is survived by his wife and a daughter.
      