
        Richard A. Moody, author, theater historian and former director of theater at Indiana University, died on Friday at Bloomington Hospital in Bloomington, Ind.  He was 84.
        His death was announced yesterday by the Indiana University News Bureau.
        A specialist in early American theater, Mr. Moody was an expert on the career of the 19th-century actor Edwin Forrest. In 1958, he wrote "The Astor Place Riot," which dealt with the violence precipitated by the rivalry between Forrest and the English actor William Macready. Two years later he published "Edwin Forrest: First Star of the American Stage."
        In the Forrest biography, Mr. Moody said that "no other actor could churn up" the emotions of American audiences "as Forrest did with his stormy renderings of Shakespeare's tragic heroes or with his passionate patriotic impersonation of any one of a half-dozen freedom-loving zealots struggling against tyrannical oppression." Many years later, "The Astor Place Riot" provided source material for Richard Nelson's Broadway play, "Two Shakespearean  Actors."
        Mr. Moody was born in Des Moines. He graduated from Drake University and then studied at the Yale University School of Drama, where he took courses with George Pierce Baker. In 1936 he began teaching at the University of Illinois. After serving in the United States Navy during World War II, he moved to Indiana University, where he remained until his retirement in 1979. Among his students were Kevin Kline and Howard Ashman, who wrote his first play in Mr. Moody's playwriting class.
        He also directed plays, wrote frequently for theater journals and was awarded fellowships by the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Early in his career he acted on radio and in summer stock, fulfilling a dream by playing the title role in a production of "Rip Van Winkle" before an audience that included Charles Evans Hughes, the Chief Justice of the  United States Supreme Court.
        Among his other books are "America Takes the Stage: Romanticism in American Drama and Theater, 1750-1900," "Lillian Hellman: Playwright" and "Dramas From the American Theater, 1762-1909." Following his retirement, Mr. Moody continued  to lecture at various American universities.
        He is survived by his wife, Carol, of Bloomington; a daughter, Pamela Moody Powers, of Seattle; a son, E. Craig Moody, of San Francisco, three grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      