
        Ronald N. Davies, who as a Federal judge in 1957 ordered the schools of Little Rock, Ark., to integrate and prevailed over Gov. Orval E. Faubus, died on Thursday in Fargo, N.D. He was 91.
        Mr. Davies died in a nursing home where he had been since August, said his son Timothy.
        Mr. Davies was a 53-year-old Federal District judge in Fargo, on the bench for only two years and little known outside North Dakota, when he was thrust into the national spotlight during a turbulent month in 1957 and earned a place  in civil rights history.
        On three occasions he ordered the Little Rock School Board to carry out its plan for integration at Central High School and abide by the 1954 United States  Supreme Court decision, in Brown v. Board of Education, that school segregation  was unconstitutional.
        His climactic ruling came on Sept. 20, 1957, when he enjoined Governor Faubus, a steadfast foe of integration, from "preventing by the use of the National Guard" the attendance of black students. Mr. Faubus, who helped set the tone for Southern white resistance to integration, had sent the National Guard to the school on Sept. 2.
        Mr. Faubus called the ruling "high handed and arbitrary," but he immediately  removed the guardsmen. On Sept. 23, nine black students slipped into the school through a side door while a white mob rioted outside. The next day President Dwight D. Eisenhower ordered 1,200 paratroopers to enforce Judge Davies's orders. On Sept. 25 the black students entered through the front door,  under the escort of Federal troops.
        An integration plan for Little Rock had been upheld by a Federal appeals court on April 27, 1957. But in August a segregationist group obtained a temporary injunction from a county court barring the school board from proceeding. On Aug. 30 Judge Davies overruled the county court, ordering that desegregation begin "forthwith."
        Only a few days before had Judge Davies arrived with his small trunk to begin his temporary assignment in Little Rock, which was part of the same Federal court circuit as his court in Fargo. He was to serve until an appointment was made to replace a judge who had retired.
        "I didn't even know what case I would get when I was ordered to go down there," he recalled in 1987.
        Judge Davies remembered Governor Faubus, who died in 1994, as "a smart politician."
        "The Governor was on TV every night knocking me," Judge Davies said. "I helped him get re-elected to a third, a fourth and a fifth term." Mr. Faubus served six terms.
        Judge Davies once said he was sorry he had never met Mr. Faubus. "He was reflecting the fears and the wishes, perhaps, of a lot of his people," the judge recalled.
        After Mr. Faubus sent in the Guard, the school board asked Judge Davies for further instructions, and on Sept. 3 he ordered the board to proceed with integration. But on Sept. 4, the nine pioneering black students tried to enter the school and were told by guardsmen that the school was "out of bounds" to them. The board then petitioned Judge Davies to suspend enforcement of integration, but on Sept. 7 he held that "there can be nothing but ultimate confusion and chaos if court decrees are flouted." And on Sept. 9 he ordered the Government to seek an injunction against Governor Faubus.
        His son Timothy recalled: "He always said those decisions could be made by anyone who could read or write. The law was clear, and there was nothing to decide."
        Judge Davies remained on the District Court in Fargo until retiring in 1984,  after a stroke.
        Judge Davies was born in Crookston, Minn., graduated from the University of North Dakota and, while working as a police officer, obtained his law degree from Georgetown University. He had a private law practice in Grand Forks, N.D.,  until he was named to the Federal bench.
        Besides his son Timothy, of Fargo, Judge Davies is survived by another son, Thomas, of Fargo; three daughters, Jean O'Connor of Fargo, Mary Jo Eidler of Wheaton, Ill., and Catharine Olmscheid of Fair Oaks, Calif.; a sister, Beryl O'Connor of Northwood, N.D.; 20 grandchildren and 29 great-grandchildren.
      