
        Dr. Sidney B. Weinberg, the forensic pathologist who created the Suffolk County Medical Examiner's office in 1960 and turned it into a national showcase, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian hospital. He was 72 and lived in Huntington Station, L.I.
        His wife, Diana, said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        If Suffolk County was late in scrapping its long-outdated and generally discredited coroner system for determining cause of death in police and other cases, it may have been partly because county officials were simply waiting for  the right man to come along.
        By most accounts they could hardly have got a better one. A native of Philadelphia who grew up in Monticello, N.Y., Dr. Weinberg, whose father was a lawyer, attended the University of North Carolina and obtained his medical degree from the University of Buffalo before doing his residency in pathology at Kings County Hospital and serving as an Army pathologist during the Korean War.
        By the time Suffolk County decided to replace its network of individual municipal coroners, often lightly trained political appointees, with a unified countywide medical examiner's office, Dr. Weinberg had spent six years training  with Dr. Milton Helpern, the legendary New York City medical examiner, who was one of the first physicans trained in the demanding modern specialty of forensic pathology.
        Within years after he stepped down as Dr. Helpern's deputy and became Suffolk County's first Chief Medical Examiner, Dr. Weinberg had himself become a legend  and a mentor for a following generation of pathologists, including two of Dr. Helpern's successors, Dr. Elliot Gross and Dr. Michael Baden.
        For all his scientific training, Dr. Weinberg sometimes seemed to operate on  an unerring intuition.
        There was the time, for example, when his assistants had been puzzling over the body of a gunshot victim and even examining X-rays in what was proving to be a vain effort to find the entry wound when Dr. Weinberg strode briskly into the  room, took one quick look at the body, pointed at a microscopic mark near the rib cage and said, "There it is."
        An affable man with a ready smile, Dr. Weinberg, whose daily rounds were punctuated with a chorus of "Hi, Doc" greetings from public officials and private citizens alike, was skilled in negotiating Suffolk County's often treacherous political terrain.
        That was partly because of his personality and partly because his department  was so widely recognized as a national model of efficiency and overall excellence that no politician wanted to cross him.
        Not that Dr. Weinberg would trim his opinions to keep interagency peace. That became apparent the time he angered homicide detectives by doubting their conclusion, supported by autopsy results from one of his assistants, that a man  had died in an accidental fall after suffering an epileptic seizure.
        Dr. Weinberg, who suspected that the man had been killed by a deliberate blow to the head with a blunt object, performed a second autopsy, which bolstered his belief, but it was not until two men confessed to having beaten the man with baseball bats that the police were finally convinced.
        By the time he retired in 1982, Dr. Weinberg had won such respect from the police that a homicide captain claimed the department had a 100 percent conviction rate as a result of Dr. Weinberg's evidence.
        With testimonials like that, it was hardly any wonder that Dr. Weinberg was in demand as an independent expert in controversial cases across the country.
        When the police in California said that a popular local athlete had committed suicide by hanging himself in a jail cell, Dr. Weinberg's conclusion that the man had actually died of manual strangulation helped the athlete's family win a  settlement in a wrongful death lawsuit against the police.
        Dr. Weinberg, for whom the building housing the medical examiner's office in  Hauppauge is named, stepped down in 1982.
        "I've had such a steady diet of death that I guess I've had enough of it," he said.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Steven, of Providence, R.I., and Frederick, a doctor, from Princeton, N.J.; a daughter, Fran, of Manhattan; a brother, Morton, a doctor from Hauppauge, and five grandchildren.
      