
        Dr. James Lyman Tullis, a blood specialist who developed a novel way of freezing and storing human red blood cells for clinical use, died on Sunday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in the Boston suburb of Chestnut Hill.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said the hospital, where Dr. Tullis was once chairman of the department of medicine and physician in chief and had remained an attending physician.
        Dr. Tullis retired in 1981 as professor emeritus at Harvard Medical School,  with which Deaconess has since become affiliated as a teaching hospital. He had  been associated with both institutions since the 1940's.
        He joined the Deaconess staff in 1948 as a research fellow in pathology and worked with Dr. Shields Warren to investigate the permeability of white blood cells. The results were reported in The American Journal of Physiology, one of 143 scientific publications to which Dr. Tullis contributed over the years.
        The new method of freezing and storing red blood cells that he developed in the 1960's derived from a procedure introduced a few years earlier by a British  veterinarian for freezing cattle sperm cells for breeding. Several American scientists then experimented with ways to do the same with human blood.
        Dr. Tullis's contribution was to fine-tune a glycerol freezing process, determining just how much and what type of glycerol to use as an agent, and how  long to freeze the cells at what temperature. Working under a Navy contract, he found a method of long-term storage and safe transfusion that is still used to preserve red cells of people with very rare blood types.
        Dr. Tullis also worked with Edward Cohn at Harvard to develop the Cohn fractionator, now used around the world to prepare human platelets, the molecular disks associated with clotting.
        Dr. Tullis was born in Newark, Ohio, and received his medical degree at Duke  University in 1940. He completed his training at Roosevelt Hospital in New York  and then, during World War II, served as a captain in the Army Medical Corps in  North Africa, Sicily, France and Germany.
        He is survived by three daughters, Dr. Virginia Latham of Harvard, Mass., Anne Pearce of Fairhope, Ala., and Susan Gay Dane of Cohasset, Mass.; a son, James Luther Lyman Tullis of Greenwich, Conn.; 14 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. His wife of 54 years, Marjorie White Tullis, died in 1992.
      