
        Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, who was reported missing today in the crash of an Air Force plane near Dubrovnik, Croatia, is one of Washington's most skilled political insiders, a consummate deal maker who helped unify the Democratic Party behind Bill Clinton and then put the creation of American jobs  at the center of the nation's foreign policy.
        Reared in the celebrity-filled cacophony of the Hotel Theresa in Harlem, where his father worked as manager, Mr. Brown quickly learned the art of making  connections and closing a deal -- first for the autographs of Joe Louis and Jackie Robinson, and eventually for the chief executives that he led to China, Southeast Asia and, in recent months, many of the world's trouble spots.
        As smooth as his perfectly pressed suits, he exudes confidence, making sure  that those he meets know that he considers himself a black leader, one who rose  to prominence not only because of his connections to the civil rights movement but also because he wis "good and confident and smart" at operating in the halls of corporate America and Capitol Hill.
        But it is this same reputation for tracking the scent of profit and straddling the line between public and private that has often landed him in trouble, and he has spent much of his three years as Commerce Secretary fending  off investigations into his private dealings. One set of allegations was dismissed as groundless and nothing has ever been proven in other cases, but the charges alone are widely acknowledged in the White House to preclude Mr. Brown's public move to a central role in the President's re-election campaign.
        Nonetheless, he played an active behind-the-scenes role until he left for Europe last weekend.
        Mr. Brown learned his political ways from liberal stalwarts like Senator Edward M. Kennedy and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. In 1989, he took on the unenviable job as head of the Democratic National Committee, and in four years turned it into the centrist institution that Mr. Clinton used in his successful bid for the Presidency.
        As Commerce Secretary, Mr. Brown has used his office to both break open markets and to announce that the power of private enterprise was the new incarnation of American foreign aid. He often talks as if he were America's chairman of the board, and to many business executives -- including Republicans  who could hardly believe they were flying the world with the man who in 1988 managed Mr. Jackson's Presidential campaign -- he is.
        "There is no question," Mr. Brown said a few months ago, "that when that plane lands on runways around the world bearing the letters 'The United States of America,' and I come down the steps with a string of C.E.O.'s behind me, it conveys the power of this nation to turn commerce into the infrastructure of democracy."
        Mr. Brown was the first black to pledge a fraternity at Middlebury College in Vermont, which was overwhelmingly white at the time. He was the first black to run a major political party, and the first to become a partner in his Washington law firm, Patton, Boggs & Blow, known as one of the most skilled lobbying firms  in the capital.
        Yet race is never far from his mind. Over lunch in his office one day last fall, Mr. Brown reached into his desk drawer and pulled out a photograph from a  Midwestern newspaper stapled to a note card bearing the stars of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The picture was of Mr. Brown; the caption identified him as Gen. Colin L. Powell.
        "Ron -- They still can't tell us apart," General Powell's note read.
        In person, Mr. Brown is a commanding presence, with a booming voice and quick sense of humor. Though his charm can be disarming, few who have dealt with him doubt that behind the suave veneer is one of the capital's most practiced hands  at pulling the levers of power.
        He surprised Democrats in 1988 by acting as peacemaker between Mr. Jackson's  camp and that of the party's nominee, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts,  and then used that achievement to persuade many skeptics that he was neither too liberal nor too tied to Mr. Jackson to succeed at the top post at the Democratic National Committee.
        "I promise you, the story of my chairmanship will not be about race, it will  be about the races we win," he said.
        Like Mr. Clinton, however, Mr. Brown has often been accused of trying to be too many things to too many constituencies. Some have questioned whether he is a true liberal, asserting that he is politically and racially nonideological.
        Ronald Harmon Brown was born on Aug. 1, 1941 in Washington, D.C., to two graduates of Howard University, William Brown and Gloria Carter Brown. But his home was Harlem, and more specifically the Hotel Theresa on 125th Street. The hotel was across from the Apollo Theater, a mecca for black entertainers, politicians and sports stars. He traded in their autographs, and even had a picture of himself, at age 10 or 11, posing with Richard M. Nixon.
        He was schooled at exclusive prep schools and when he attended public high school it was in White Plains, a racially mixed Westchester suburb. In 1958 he went to Middlebury, and when he was accepted by his fraternity, its charter was  revoked. While the civil rights movement got its start, he was in the Reserve Officers Training Corps, then the Army.
        After his discharge, he studied law at St. John's University in Queens, getting his degree in 1970. While a student, he worked as a welfare caseworker for the National Urban League on the Lower East Side.
        "This was typical Ron Brown energy," said Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative. "He had this sense that he had to get ahead and give something back at the same time."
        Mr. Brown later moved to Washington, where he began to build what was easily  one of the capital's thickest Rolodexes, and moved quickly to what he considered a far less confining field: deputy head of Senator Kennedy's 1980 Presidential bid.
        That campaign collapsed, but Mr. Brown was just getting started. He worked at the Democratic National Committee, but by the mid-1980's he had already turned to another task, making money, and soon became one of the city's most recognizable lawyer-lobbyists. It was the period of his life that came to haunt  him.
        In 1993, the F.B.I. looked into allegations that Mr. Brown had solicited a bribe from businessmen promoting trade with Vietnam. The inquiry was later dropped.
        In the past year, an independent counsel has examined Mr. Brown's ties to a broadcasting executive.
        Mr. Brown has always maintained that he had done nothing wrong and that his business deals had "been made to sound sinister" even though "there's nothing sinister about it."
        He weathered all the allegations in part because of his roguish charm, his bridge-building abilities, and what Martin Kilson, a Harvard political science professor, called his ability to be a "transethnic politician."
        That skill served him well at the 1992 Democratic Convention where he helped  unify a divided party behind Mr. Clinton. And it made him a natural for a Commerce Department that was about to be turned into a major instrument of the Administration's economic plan -- refocusing American business on "emerging markets" and using the power of the Government to make sure trading partners bought American.
        He has spent a good deal of time in the department's "war room," monitoring major contracts that Governments around the world were scheduled to award. The delicate part came when he tried to push American goods while delivering messages that his customers did not want to hear -- including protests over China's human rights record.
        Mr. Brown has been pressing China to complete a huge order for McDonnell Douglas jets and has his usual phalanx of chief executives in tow. But he is also being accused by human rights groups of undercutting pressure on the Chinese leaders by seeking to win billions in orders.
        "This was the biggest test," said Jeffrey Garten, the under secretary of commerce for international affairs until a few months ago who described Mr. Brown's meeting with Jiang Zemin, China's president.
        "Before we went in to see Jiang Zemin, other Chinese told us that if we bring up the human rights issue, the meeting will be a disaster," Mr. Garten said. So  Mr. Brown started by talking business. "Then there was a long pause," recalled Mr. Garten, "and Ron started by saying that human rights has a special meaning to anyone who worked in the civil rights movement and that America has a long, long way to go as well. But he made it clear that China could never achieve its  major goal in the world, to become a major player on the world stage, if it was  constantly being criticized around the world."
        Mr. Jiang, he recalled, said, "If you put it that way, we have something to talk about."
        It is too early to tell whether Mr. Brown's efforts -- what he called "commercial diplomacy" -- will generate much more than commerce. His entreaties  to China resulted in airplane orders, but imprisonment of dissidents has continued. He bristles when challenged at length over the success of the strategy. Critics point out that many of the deals he has initialed on such trips have never came to fruition.
        But in the past year, he has also turned his trips to a new purpose -- one not designed to profit American companies as much as to put a new face to American aid, fueled by corporate investment that focuses on infrastructure and  new businesses. He traveled to Northern Ireland, to Africa, and, this week, to Croatia, where a mission that merged commerce and reconstruction ended in disaster.
        Mr. Brown and his wife, Alma, have two children: Tracey, a deputy district attorney in Los Angeles, and Michael, a lawyer in Washington.
        Correction:  April 17, 1996, Wednesday
        Articles on April 4 and 5 about the late Commerce Secretary, Ronald H. Brown, referred incorrectly to his membership in a fraternity at Middlebury College. Though he was the first black to be admitted to Sigma Epsilon at Middlebury, he  was not the first black to be admitted to any fraternity at the Vermont school;  that milestone was passed in 1948, a decade before Mr. Brown attended.
      