
        When Don Clayton was 28, he felt such pressure selling insurance in his hometown of Fayetteville, N.C., that his doctor feared he was on the verge of a  nervous breakdown and ordered him to take a month's vacation -- but neglected to tell him not to engage in any formal relaxation.
        Sure enough, Mr. Clayton was soon out playing miniature golf -- and becoming  so worked up over what he considered the deplorable conditions of the ill-designed course that when he got home, the only way he could stave off a nervous breakdown was to sit down to design what he considered a superior version of the game.
        By most accounts, Mr. Clayton never did learn how to relax, but when he died at a Fayetteville hospital early yesterday at the age of 70, the brainstorm he'd had instead of a nervous breakdown in 1954 had grown into Putt-Putt Golf and Games, an international franchising operation with $100 million in annual revenues.
        What distinguished the game Mr. Clayton laid out on 3-by-5 cards on his dining room table from other versions of miniature golf was that Putt-Putt golf  was not an over-scale pinball machine forcing players to avoid, say, the rotating paddles of a windmill or time the snapping jaws of an ersatz alligator  to sink a shot.
        By contrast, Putt-Putt was a purists' putting game laid out with geometric precision to test and reward the same skills demanded of expert putters on the professional tour.
        To test his idea, Mr. Clayton and his father spent $5,200 to build an 18-hole course on a shaded lot and charged 25 cents a game.
        When they had earned their investment back 29 days later, Mr. Clayton knew he was on to something, but did not know exactly what until he went to the bank to  open a business account. He had intended to call his enterprise Shady Vale Golf  Courses, but when he realized he was not sure how to spell "Vale," he substituted the name Putt-Putt on a whim.
        Mr. Clayton, who never did return to the insurance business, eventually began a franchise operation in which each of its 265 courses is based on a set of his  108 copyrighted holes.
        Lest anyone dismiss Putt-Putt golf as child's play, Mr. Clayton started a Professional Putters Association tour that has awarded more than $6.5 million in prize money since 1959.
        In time, competition forced Mr. Clayton to add large animals to his layouts,  but only as decorations, never as part of an obstacle course.
        A demanding man who insisted on doing things his way, Mr. Clayton retired last year and turned the business over to his daughter, Donna Lloyd.
        A company executive, Bobby Owens, said Mr. Clayton died after a suffering an  aortic aneurysm at a Fayetteville civic meeting.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Clayton, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Trish; a son, Don, from his first marriage; a  7-year-old son, Nash, from his second; a sister, Betty Abernathy of Hickory, N.C., and five grandchildren.
      