
        Nathaniel Cushing Nash, the Frankfurt bureau chief of The New York Times, was on board the plane that crashed in Croatia yesterday. The 44-year-old reporter has spent more than half his life at The Times.
        Mr. Nash, who joined The Times as a copyboy after his graduation from Harvard in 1973, has been a bundle of gentle anomalies: a passionate student of the Bible and part-time missionary with a wicked backhand and a taste for fine wine  and a talented reporter who was so accommodating and efficient in his first years on the paper that he had trouble convincing his superiors that he could handle the rough and tumble of reporting.
        How well he succeeded became apparent yesterday when Arthur Sulzberger Jr.,  the publisher of The New York Times, expressed fear that Mr. Nash was the first  Times reporter to die while covering a story since World War II. He hailed him as "a colleague known as much for his gentleness of spirit as for his keen journalistic abilities."
        The newspaper's executive editor, Joseph Lelyveld, echoed the sentiment, describing Mr. Nash as "an unusually thoughtful and engaging man," with a striking quality:
        "Nathaniel had a sweetness -- not necessarily the first word that springs to  mind when describing a truly effective foreign correspondent -- that was treasured by all who knew him."
        A member of a rock-ribbed New England family that has not strayed far from Boston, Mr. Nash, a Mayflower descendant on both sides of his family, is the fifth successive member of his family to bear the name Nathaniel Cushing Nash. ("Our family has trouble coming up with names," his father explained yesterday.)
        The fourth generation of his family to attend the Noble and Greenough School  in Dedham, Mass., Mr. Nash, who was born in Lawrence, Mass., and grew up in Hamilton, Mass., was a star athlete in high school, earning a total of nine varsity letters in basketball, tennis and soccer.
        He was the fourth generation to attend Harvard, where he continued his athletic achievements until he dropped tennis and basketball after his freshman  year. That, his father said yesterday, was partly because as a language major he carried an unusually heavy course load and wanted to concentrate on his studies  and partly because he had joined an evangelical Christian group that took up increasing amounts of his time, including trips to New York for Bible study with the New Testament Missionary Fellowship.
        It was the encouragement of a member of the religious group, McCandlish Phillips, a former Times reporter, that led Mr. Nash to pursue journalism.
        After serving briefly as a copy boy, he became a clerk in the financial news  department, where he later worked as a copy editor and eventually as assistant to the business and financial editor.
        With the backing of his editors, Mr. Nash wangled an assignment to cover banking and finance in Washington. Within months of his arrival in the Washington bureau in 1985 he had established himself as a thorough and insightful reporter. This was apparent in his coverage of the savings and loan crisis. An article he wrote in June 1985, suggesting, among other things, that one-third of the Federally insured savings and loan associations could disappear by the end of the decade, reads today like a blueprint of exactly what did happen.
        He also reported on the workings of the Federal Reserve Board, American trade policy and Congress.
        Mr. Nash, who was married in 1985 to Elizabeth Rogow, a missionary he had met at a Bible study group in New York, spoke fluent Spanish and spent his vacations doing missionary work in Colombia.
        Assigned to Buenos Aires in 1991, he spent the next three years covering everything from the Shining Path movement in Peru, natural disasters in Bolivia  and economic development throughout the southern cone of South America.
        As bureau chief in Frankfurt since July 1994, Mr. Nash specialized in business and economic news in Europe, an assignment that included coverage of efforts to create a common European economic policy, corporate mergers and employment trends.
        Mr. Nash, who loves the outdoors so much that he thinks nothing of taking visiting editors on exhausting hikes, is also a fly fisherman who ties his own flies (and maintains a West Virginia cabin as a fishing base) and also raises orchids.
        Mr. Nash once confided to a friend that the way to thrive at The Times was to avoid cynicism. Mr. Phillips suggested another reason Mr. Nash is held in such esteem: "When he came into a room, a gust of good will came right in with him."
        Mr. Nash and his wife have a son, Nathaniel, 8, and 5-year-old twin daughters, Margarett Lucile and Lisa Deborah. His parents, Nathaniel and Caroline Nash, live in Wenham, Mass., and a sister, Deborah Molander, lives in Yarmouth, Maine.
      