
        Rabbi Arthur J. Lelyveld, a leader of Reform Judaism who was active in social causes, died yesterday at the Montefiore Nursing Home in Beachwood, Ohio, near Cleveland. Rabbi Lelyveld, who lived in Cleveland, was 83.
        He had suffered a brain tumor several months ago.
        Throughout his decades at the head of one of the nation's largest Reform congregations and as a leader of some of the country's major Jewish organizations, Rabbi Lelyveld backed his speech with action. "Our movement, the  Reform Jewish movement, has always put a strong emphasis on social activism," he said. "The whole thrust of our tradition is a concern for social welfare."
        For Rabbi Lelyveld, that included fostering closer relations between blacks and Jews. He was beaten by white segregationists in 1964 while helping to register black voters in Mississippi.
        As a young rabbi, he helped influence President Harry S. Truman's recognition of the State of Israel. In 1946, two years before Israel's birth, Rabbi Lelyveld, then the executive director of the Committee on Unity for Palestine in the Zionist Organization of America, took part in a meeting with the President.  He accompanied Eddie Jacobson, an old friend and business partner of Truman, and Charles Kaplan, the vice president of a shirt company, to the White House to make the case for a Jewish state at a time when the State Department was hostile to the idea.
        After the meeting, Mr. Jacobson told reporters, "Kaplan sells shirts, I sell  furnishings, and the rabbi sells notions."
        Among his many high posts, Rabbi Lelyveld was president of the American Jewish Congress, a 50,000-member organization, from 1966 to 1972. He was also at various times president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, an association of Reform rabbis in the United States and Canada, and of the Synagogue Council of America.
        Earlier, before moving to Cleveland, he served as the executive vice president of the American-Israel Cultural Foundation and, from 1948 to 1956, as  national director of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundations, the policy body for the Hillel centers on college campuses in the United States and abroad. He was rabbi of Fairmount Temple in Cleveland from 1958 to 1986. After becoming senior  rabbi emeritus at Fairmount, he served as a lecturer in Jewish thought at John Carroll University, a Jesuit institution in Cleveland.
        As a Reform rabbi, he sought common purpose with the Conservative and Orthodox branches of Judaism.
        "What we must seek in every branch of a uniquely pluralistic American Judaism is the production of earnest, learned and sincerely devoted Jews, committed to the building of a more perfect world," he wrote. "This will not be achieved by setting one branch of Judaism against the others, but by mutual assistance and reciprocal respect."
        Explaining his support of the civil rights movement in the 1960's, he said: "I do not serve the cause of Negro emancipation because I expect the Negro to love me in return. The command to remember the stranger and the oppressed is unconditional."
        When he delivered the eulogy for Andrew Goodman, a son of friends who was murdered with James Chaney and Michael Schwerner in Mississippi in 1964, the rabbi said, "None of these civil rights workers -- certainly not Andy or Michael or James -- would have us in resentment and vindictiveness add to the store of hatred in the world."
        And when the rabbi spoke at services for David R. Berger, a former Cleveland  resident who became a weight lifter and who was murdered with other Israeli Olympians by Arab terrorists in Munich in 1972, he again rejected a call from the militant Jewish Defense League for vengeance.
        "The calls for violent reprisals that have come from a few unrepresentative extremists reflect the very inhumanity and insane criminality that we abhor," he said.
        Harold B. Williams, the executive secretary of the Cleveland branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People from 1955 to 1965, called Rabbi Lelyveld "a tower of strength" as a member of the organization's board.
        Mr. Williams said that on one occasion, when many residents of Cleveland feared that a proposed march to protest the quality of life for blacks in the city would get out of hand, the rabbi argued forcefully in its favor, saying it  was right and needed to be done.
        On another occasion, he supported protesters who were objecting to the exclusion of blacks from skilled jobs in the construction of a Federal building  in Cleveland. He also challenged a Roman Catholic priest who criticized the involvement of children in a one-day boycott of schools to dramatize inequalities in education.
        In Hattiesburg, Miss., in 1964, Rabbi Lelyveld was hospitalized with a deep gash over his right eye, a cut over his left ear and bruises on his chest and abdomen when he and two white companions were attacked by two segregationists wielding tire irons. The rabbi, then 51, was returning with two young white civil rights workers and two young black Hattiesburg women from voter registration work.
        At the time, Rabbi Lelyveld was working with the National Council of Churches as a counselor for the young civil rights workers and in the drive to register black voters. From his hospital bed, he said he felt "a deep sorrow for the state of Mississippi."
        Two white men were later fined $500 each and given suspended 90-day sentences for the beating.
        Arthur Joseph Lelyveld was born in Manhattan on Feb. 6, 1913. Though there was little religion in his family, Rabbi Lelyveld said his father, a hosiery salesman, encouraged him toward the rabbinate.
        "There's a certain ambivalence among people in minority groups," he observed. "Some tend to become escapists. Others are drawn more into the group. My psychological tendency all through life has been to become more and more a Jew.  It's my philosophy that the more integrated I become, the better human being I'll be."
        At Columbia College, where he graduated in 1933, he became the first Jewish editor in chief of The Columbia Daily Spectator, a leader of the glee club and,  at 135 pounds, a member of the wrestling team. He also strummed the banjo and the guitar and led a band called the Columbia Ramblers.
        He graduated in 1939 from Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, where he was ordained a rabbi. He then led congregations in Hamilton, Ohio, and in Omaha before coming to New York in 1944 to devote himself full time to the Zionist cause, in a role that involved campaigning across the country against a remnant  of Jewish anti-Zionists opposed to the creation of the Jewish state.
        He was the author of "Atheism is Dead" (1968) and "The Steadfast Stream: An Introduction to Jewish Social Values," which was published in September.
        His first marriage, to Toby Bookholtz, ended in divorce in 1964. In addition  to his wife, the former Teela Stovsky of Cleveland, and a daughter, Robin Lelyveld of Bethesda, Md., Rabbi Lelyveld is survived by three sons from his first marriage, Joseph, of Manhattan, the executive editor of The New York Times, David, of Manhattan, and Michael S., of Arlington, Mass., and five grandchildren.
        Funeral services for Rabbi Lelyveld will be Wednesday at 3 P.M. at Fairmount  Temple in Cleveland.
      