
        Sandy Becker, an announcer on network radio in the 40's and a creator of puppets, characters and skits for children's television shows on which he was the host in the 50's and 60's, died on Tuesday at his home in Remsenburg, L.I. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Becker was a pre-medical student at New York University in the late 1930's when he decided to try broadcasting. His first job was as an announcer on radio station WWRL in Queens.
        Soon he was being heard coast to coast on network radio, first as the announcer who introduced a CBS soap opera called "Young Dr. Malone," later as young Dr. Malone himself. CBS hired him as a staff announcer in 1943 and made him the voice behind quiz shows like "Take It or Leave It," variety shows like "Sing Along" and talk shows like "Kate Smith Speaks." In the early years of television, he was the announcer for a program on WNBC-TV called "Ask the Camera," with Barbara Walters, and was the host of "Armstrong Circle Theater." He was also an announcer on WNEW radio.
        In 1955, on what was then WABD-TV, he went before the camera as the host of a six-hour program called "Wonderama." Later, with "The Sandy Becker Show" and "Sandy Becker's Fun House," he kept up a rigorous on-the-air schedule, appearing live from 8 to 9:30 A.M. and from 6:30 to 7 P.M.
        To fill the time he invented characters to catch the imagination of his viewers. The first, christened Norton Nork, evolved from his jumping into an ill-fitting suit and giving the camera an idiotic grin. Other zany personalities followed: Hambone, Dr. Gesundheit and Big Professor.
        Mr. Becker, who wrote some of the material for his shows and ad-libbed the rest, was not afraid to tell his audience there was more to life than television. That led to this letter from a 9-year-old fan in Montclair, N.J.:
        "I heard you say that I should get a library card and read books and I did get a library card and borrowed some books and now that I read the books I don't have time to watch your TV show any more."
        He is survived by his wife, Cherie, and three children from his marriage to Ruth Becker: Joyce Sexton of Batavia, Ill., and Annelle D'Addio and Curt Becker, both of North Granby, Conn.
      