
        Dr. Walter R. Harding, a leading scholar of the life and works of Henry David Thoreau and emeritus professor of English at the State University of New York College at Geneseo, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Dansville, N.Y. He was 79.
        Dr. Harding wrote or edited 31 books on the Massachusetts writer and naturalist, including "The Days of Henry Thoreau," "Thoreau, Man of Concord" and "Henry David Thoreau, a Profile." His most recent book on the subject, "Walden," was published last year.
        He was the founding secretary and former president of the Thoreau Society, the oldest international organization devoted to the study of an American author and the largest, with 1,300 members. He also served from 1965 to 1973 as editor  in chief of the standard edition of Thoreau's writings, published by Princeton University Press. Dr. Harding also lectured on Thoreau in Japan, Norway, France  and West Germany, as part of a program sponsored by the State Department.
        Earlier this year, Dr. Harding's family pledged to donate his collection of more than 15,000 books, pamphlets, articles and other Thoreau memorabilia to the Thoreau Society. The collection includes first editions and first printings of all Thoreau's works and will be displayed at Walden Woods in Concord, Mass.
        Dr. Harding joined the English faculty at Geneseo in 1956 after teaching at the University of Virginia, Rutgers and the University of North Carolina. He was designated a distinguished professor in 1973.
        A year after his retirement in 1983, he became the first faculty member in the state university system to be awarded an honorary doctor of letters degree.
        Dr. Harding was born in Bridgewater, Mass., in 1917. He received an education degree from Bridgewater State College, a master's degree from the University of  North Carolina and a doctorate from Rutgers.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie Brook Harding; three sons, David, Allen  and Lawrence, and a daughter, Susan.
      