
        Orville Prescott, principal daily book critic for The New York Times for 24 years and a considerable force in the literary world, died on Sunday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 89.
        During his tenure at The Times from 1942 to 1966, Mr. Prescott wrote three or four reviews every week. Clearly and consistently, he spoke his own mind, challenging sacred cows and often crossing swords with artistic experimentalists while pursuing his own predilection for novels with strong narratives and characterization.
        Reviewing Mr. Prescott's autobiography, "The Five-Dollar Gold Piece," in the New York Times Book Review, Granville Hicks said, "Often as I have differed with his judgments, I read his reviews attentively, for not only can I learn from them what the books are about; I can come pretty close to guessing what ay own opinions are likely to be."
        If there was any doubt about Mr. Prescott's judgments, he defined his positions in an essay written after his retirement and published in The Saturday Review. First of all, he said that "all critics practice a craft which consists  of personal, subjective opinion tempered by experience and wide reading." It was, he said, "not only inevitable but fitting and proper that they should disagree among themselves."
        Then he named the contemporary novelists he thought were "worthy of thoughtful attention," but who were "excessively overpraised" by his colleagues. On Mr. Prescott's list were William Faulkner ("the most distinguished of these intermittently brilliant authors"), John O'Hara, Robert Penn Warren, John Steinbeck, Saul Bellow, John Updike, J. D. Salinger, William Styron, Henry Green, Graham Greene, Laurence Durrell, Gunter Grass and Vladimir  Nabokov.
        In contrast, he said, there were novelists who were "more significant and truthful interpreters of life." Their novels "represent the best fiction of the  past 25 years." On this list were John P. Marquand, James Gould Cozzens, Louis Auchincloss, Conrad Richter, John Hersey, Joyce Cary, C. P. Snow Rumer Godden and Evelyn Waugh.
        Looking back on his career, he said that his first review for The Times was of Nina Fedrova's novel "The Children," which he praised "with reservations." That novel and others had been forgotten, he said, "including many that are quite good." He added, "My scrapbooks seem like a graveyard of dead reputations."
        The future critic was born in Cleveland. His grandfather was the founder and  president of the Sherwin Williams Paint Company, but it was his grandmother who  was to have the greatest effect on his life. When Orville was 6, she offered him a gold piece if he learned to read. Mr. Prescott said in "The Five-Dollar Gold Piece" that the coin "marked the most important turning point of my life."  Beginning with the stories of Thornton W. Burgess, he became and remained a voracious reader.
        After graduating from Williams College in 1930, he worked for the magazine Town Tidings in Cleveland, then joined Newsweek (News-Week in its earliest incarnation) as a researcher. At the same time he wrote book reviews freelance for The New York Herald Tribune and for The Times. Subsequently he was literary  editor of Cue magazine before joining The Times.
        As a student of history, Mr. Prescott edited "The Crossroads of World History" series for Doubleday and two anthologies, "The Undying Past" and "History as Literature." He wrote "In My Opinion," a book of literary criticism, and edited anthologies of short stories and prose and poetry for children. Mr. Prescott was also a popular lecturer. After his retirement, he continued writing book reviews while also publishing two books about the Italian Renaissance, "Princes of the Renaissance" and "Lords of Italy: Portraits from the Middle Ages."
        He is survived by his wife, Lilias Ward-Smith Prescott; a daughter, Jennifer  McLean Jr. of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a son, Peter S. Prescott, a former book critic for Newsweek, of New Canaan, five grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      