
        Dr. Stephen J. Wright, a former president of Fisk University who spent his life broadening educational opportunities for black America, died on Tuesday at  Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore. He was 85 and a resident of Hampton,  Va.
        In a career that could stand as a road map of black educational progress in the 20th century, Dr. Wright did more than show the way. He also blazed the trail for generations of black students who no longer regard a college education as a rarity but as an integral part of their culture.
        The son of a physician in the small town of Dillon, S.C., he studied at historically black colleges, taught at historically black colleges and served as president of historically black colleges, Bluefield State in West Virginia and Fisk, the Nashville university long regarded as the premier black institution of higher learning.
        Then, after his retirement from Fisk in 1966, he became president of the United Negro College Fund, the umbrella group formed to raise money for some 30  traditionally black colleges, and a consultant and executive of the College Board.
        Along the way, Dr. Wright, who specialized in teaching teachers, was in the forefront of efforts to improve the quality of black education and to remove the road blocks that had barred black students from going to college.
        As president of Fisk, for example, he persuaded black colleges to strengthen  their standards by adopting the Scholastic Aptitude Tests as part of their admissions requirements. At the same time he led the campaign to desegregate testing centers at southern colleges, going so far as to persuade the Defense Department to open military bases as test centers when nearby colleges refused to provide testing sites for all students.
        At the College Board, Dr. Wright, who was in turn a trustee, consultant, vice president, acting president and senior adviser, was a pioneer in the development of an educational equality program designed to improve educational opportunities for minority students.
        Dr. Wright graduated with a degree in chemistry from the Hampton Institute in Virginia and earned a master's degree in education at Howard University. He broke away from the black educational track in 1943 to do graduate work at Columbia and at City College in New York and to receive his doctorate from New York University.
        By then, Dr. Wright, an accomplished musician who had begun his professional  life as a high school music teacher in Centreville, Md., and later served as a high school principal in Upper Marlboro, Md., had become an assistant professor of education at North Carolina College in Durham, a post he secured, he always maintained, because the college (now North Carolina Central) wanted him to start a band.
        After serving as professor of education and dean of students at Hampton, he was president of Bluefield State for four years before becoming Fisk's seventh president, and second black president in 1957.
        Dr. Wright, who wrote widely on education, had such a voracious appetite for  knowledge that he read 1,000 pages a day until six months ago. He was in such demand for his counsel and leadership that he served as a member or officer of more than two dozen national boards, commissions and associations and was so appreciated for his service that he rarely had June to himself: He received more than a dozen honorary degrees.
        Dr. Wright is survived by his wife, Rosalind.
      