
        William T. French, a marketing executive who was chairman of two major merchandising companies, died on Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital Center in New York. He was 83 and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Mr. French's wife, Connie French, said he died of complications after open heart surgery last month.
        He was born in Detroit, and attended the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business. But he dropped out after the collapse of his father's automotive business during the Depression to sell vacuum cleaners and ladies' hoisery door-to-door to help the family make ends meet.
        Although he never finished college, Mr. French talked his way into George Washington University Law School. Working various sales jobs during the day and  studying law at night, he received a law degree in 1942.
        After service as a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve during World War II, Mr. French went to work for the Vick Chemical Company. He subsequently worked in marketing jobs for a number of companies, including the Sealtest division of the National Dairy Company and Lever Brothers.
        In 1960, Mr. French was named president and chief executive of the Associated Merchandising Corporation, an independent buying and research organization serving many of the nation's leading department stores. Six years later, he also became its chairman.
        Mr. French left A.M.C. in 1970, and in 1972, was named chairman of First National Stores, a food retailer in Somerville, Mass. He was also a senior consultant to the American Express Company and its chairman, James Robinson 3d.
        During the course of his business career, Mr. French served on various boards, including those of Burlington Industries, Pillsbury, Sotheby Park Bernet and Warnaco Inc.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. French is survived by three daughters, Victoria  Morris of Katonah, N.Y., Stephanie French and Deborah French, both of Manhattan; a brother, James R. French of Colorado Springs, and five grandchildren. From a previous marriage, he also is survived by a son, William T. French Jr. of Daytona Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      