
        Dr. John Elliott Nafe, a physicist who originated significant seismological concepts over nearly three decades as a teacher and researcher at Columbia University, died on April 6 at his home in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 81 and had lived at the university's earth sciences campus in Palisades, N.Y., until his retirement in 1980.
        Dr. Nafe was a professor of geophysics who did much of his work sailing the high seas on far-flung cruises, often aboard Columbia's research vessels, the Vema and the Robert D. Conrad. He was the chief scientist on oceanographic voyages from 1951 to 1962 and then served for three years as chairman of the department of geography.
        His base was the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades. In the 1940's and 1950's he and fellow Lamont researchers began to profile the earth's  crust, an effort that opened the way for the tectonic plate theory of continental movement.
        In 1958 Dr. Nafe was first in demonstrating that sound waves could girdle the globe though the ocean. With a colleague, Dr. Charles L. Drake, he developed the Nafe-Drake Curve, with relates the speed with which sound travels through rock to the rock's density.
        Much of his work at sea employed a technique known as seismic refraction, in  which echoes from explosive charges set off in the ocean are monitored at varying distances. The purpose is to gauge the composition of the seafloor crust and the depth to the earth's mantle beneath.
        Born in Seattle, Dr. Nafe graduated from the University of Michigan in 1938 and earned an M.S. at Washington University in St. Louis in 1940, and a Ph.D. in physics at Columbia in 1948.
        He taught at Columbia and the University of Minnesota early in his career, returning to Columbia as a researcher at its Hudson Laboratories in Dobbs Ferry, where he studied the acoustic properties of the ocean floor for submarine detection. He joined the Lamont staff in 1953 and was promoted to full professor five years later.
        Dr. Nafe is survived by his wife of 55 years, Sarah Underhill Nafe; two daughters, Mary M. Chase of Vancouver, and Katharine E. Kenah of Granville, Ohio, and six grandchildren.
      