
        James (Jimmy the Gent) Burke, a legendary gangster and suspected mastermind of the 1978 Lufthansa theft of nearly $6 million in cash, died on Saturday at a  Buffalo hospital. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his lawyer, Judd Burstein, said. Mr. Burke was serving  20 years to life for the murder of a drug dealer when he became ill in February  at the Wende Correctional Facility in Alden, N.Y.
        Mr. Burke was closely associated with top members of the Lucchese crime family. He specialized in hijacking, law enforcement officials said, and took part in crimes that also included loan sharking, extortion, gambling, drug trafficking and murder.
        His career, including the Lufthansa affair, was detailed in the book "Wiseguy" by Nicholas Pileggi. In "Goodfellas," the film based on that book, Mr. Burke's character, called Jimmy Conway, was played by Robert De Niro.
        Mr. Pileggi described Mr. Burke as a "criminal savant" who would tear into the cargo of a stolen trailer "like a greedy child at Christmas." He quoted Henry Hill, whose testimony eventually helped convict Mr. Burke, as saying that  Mr. Burke loved stealing so much that "if you ever offered Jimmy a billion dollars, he'd turn you down and then try to figure out how to steal it from you."
        Known as Jimmy the Gent for his dapper appearance, Mr. Burke had an arrest record from age 18 and, according to law enforcement officials, ran his illegal  operations from Robert's Lounge, a bar in his native Queens.
        It was there, Federal authorities said, that he planned the Lufthansa theft on Dec. 11, 1978, in which a team of hooded gunmen invaded the airline's cargo terminal at Kennedy International Airport and stole $5.8 million in untraceable  American currency being returned to the United States from Germany.
        The cash, a record amount of money for a theft in the United States at the time, was never found. For lack of evidence, Mr. Burke was never prosecuted for  the theft or for the bloodletting that followed: several of the alleged participants were murdered.
        Arrested on a parole violation in 1982, Mr. Burke never saw the outside of prison again. He was tried and convicted in a college basketball point-shaving scheme involving Boston College, and while serving a 12-year term was indicted again for the slaying of the drug dealer, Richard Eaton.
        Mr. Eaton, who the authorities said owed Mr. Burke $250,000 from a cocaine deal, was found frozen in a Brooklyn trailer in 1979. Mr. Burke was sentenced to 20 years to life for second-degree murder.
        Mr. Burstein said that while he had not seen Mr. Burke in about two years, he had been scheduled to argue a Federal court motion this month seeking to free Mr. Burke from prison on grounds that his civil rights had been violated.
      