
        Herman Pines, a chemist whose contributions laid the groundwork for the production of high-octane fuels, died on April 10 at his retirement home in San  Rafael, Calif. He was 94.
        Dr. Pines, the Ipatieff Professor emeritus of chemistry at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., helped fuel the Spitfires and Hurricanes that foiled the Luftwaffe in the Battle of Britain in 1940.
        The chemical reactions he achieved in the 1930's made possible the development and mass production of the high-octane gasolines that power today's  engines. He collaborated with the hydrocarbon expert Vladimir Ipatieff when the  latter came to the United States in 1930. Based on Dr. Pines's experiences with  the treatment of refined oil, they discovered a process, employing a catalyst, that enabled oil refineries to convert gases into high-octane fuel.
        With the outbreak of war in Europe, the Government declared the formula top secret but supplied the Royal Air Force with the new, more powerful fuel just in time for the Battle of Britain. Dr. Pines was a native of Lodz, Poland, which was then part of Russia, and he took pride in his contribution to the war effort. His mother and other family members were believed to have perished in the Holocaust.
        His contribution was based on experiments he conducted in the 1930's with two hydrocarbon compounds, isobutane and olefin. He found that they reacted at unexpectedly low temperatures in the presence of catalysts, resulting in hydrocarbons of high-octane quality.
        Octane ratings represent the antiknock properties of a gasoline or fuel mixture. Additives to the fuel of internal-combustion engines reduce or eliminate the explosive noise resulting from too rapid combustion; the higher the octane number, the greater the anti-knock properties.
        Previously it had been thought that hydrocarbons were inert substances with little affinity for related compounds. After Dr. Pines's original discovery, he  established that one of them, n-butane, a normal, straight-carbon-chain compound, could be catalytically converted into isobutane, a colorless, stable gas.  Taken together, his discoveries helped in the later commercial development and mass production of high-octane gasolines. The author of some 265 scientific  papers and holder of 145 patents, he continued throughout his life to contribute to the field of heterogeneous catalysis, demonstrating the mechanisms of hydrocarbon reactions, finding active catalytic sites and adjusting them to create new possibilities for catalysis.
        Herman Pines left Poland as a young man to seek the scientific career he might have been denied in his homeland as a Jew. He graduated with a degree in chemical engineering from the University of Lyon in France in 1927 and earned a Ph.D. in organic chemistry at the University of Chicago in 1935.
        He was hired in 1930 by Universal Oil Products, a small company in Chicago, where he began a 22-year collaboration with Dr. Ipatieff, who was also born in Russia. He did his graduate studies on weekends, holidays and evenings to obtain his doctorate. Northwestern appointed him as a research assistant professor in 1941. He left Universal Oil in 1953 to devote himself full time to his work at the university, which named him the Ipatieff Professor that year. He reached emeritus status in 1970 but maintained an active daily schedule at Northwestern  until last year.
        Dr. Pines is survived by his wife of 68 years, Dorothy; a daughter, Judy Suessmeier of Kensington, Calif.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      