
        Dr. George Margolis, a Dartmouth College neuropathologist who did some of the early research into Alzheimer's disease, died on Thursday at his home in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 81.
        He had been in failing health after a series of strokes, his family said.
        Dr. Margolis was on the faculty of Dartmouth Medical School from 1963 to 1982 and helped build the curriculum and research in its department of pathology. He was the author of hundreds of scientific papers.
        His interest in Alzheimer's disease grew from his work in other areas of investigation. They were primarily the relationship between viruses and brain damage, the effects of changes in atmospheric pressure on the brain and the loss of muscular control due to neurological disorders.
        Beyond his work in the laboratory, Dr. Margolis was known for his commitment  to liberal causes. Born in racially segregated Montgomery, W. Va., he grew up in the Jim Crow South and reached maturity as a young Army doctor in Europe in World War II.
        He became the medical school's first minority affairs officer in 1969 and when he stepped down in 1982, he had built a solid record of recruiting scores of minority students and coaching them to graduation. In 1993, he endowed the Margolis Collection for Cross-Cultural Medicine and Minority Affairs, housed in  Dartmouth's Dana Biomedical Library.
        A 1936 biology graduate of Johns Hopkins University, he received his medical  degree at Duke University in 1940. He rose to the rank of major in the Army Medical Corps.
        He joined the faculty at Duke in 1940 as a junior assistant and in 1955 advanced to professor of pathology. From 1959 to 1963, he was a faculty member at the Medical School of Virginia.
        Dr. Margolis is survived by his wife of 45 years, Anne McCabe Margolis; a daughter, Susan M. DeYoung of Ridgefield; three sons, Mac, of Rio de Janeiro, Joshua, of San Anselmo, Calif., and Dan L., of Park City, Utah; two brothers, his twin, Dr. Lester Margolis of Hillsborough, Calif., and Bertram, of Manhattan; a sister, Elaine Wickens, also of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      