
        Joseph Churba, who was the Air Force's top Middle East intelligence expert in 1976 when he publicly criticized comments by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. George S. Brown, about Israel's being a military burden for the United States, died on April 18 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 62 and moved to midtown Manhattan from Washington in January.
        The cause was a heart attack and he had pancreatitis, said Sol W. Sanders, a  friend.
        At his death Mr. Churba was president of the International Security Council, a Washington-based research institute. He was a Presidential campaign adviser to Ronald W. Reagan in 1980 and an adviser to the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1981 and 1982.
        Mr. Churba made his unusually blunt criticism of the top service officer in telephone conversations with a reporter on Oct. 19, 1976. Mr. Churba said that General Brown's comments had been "dangerously irresponsible" because they encouraged the Arabs and Russians to think American backing for Israel had diminished. He said the comments were indicative of a growing "tilt against Israel in the Defense Department."
        Later Mr. Churba's superior, Maj. Gen. George Keegan, told him that, because  he had talked to the reporter, his special security clearances for signal and satellite intelligence had been suspended and that he was no longer of any value to the Air Force as an intelligence estimator. As a result, Mr. Churba told a Times reporter, on Nov. 10, 1976, that he had quit his post, which he had held since 1972.
        An Air Force spokesman said later that Mr. Churba had known, when he took the job, that as an intelligence official he would be unable to speak publicly.
        It was in April 1976 that General Brown was asked by an Israeli cartoonist, Ranan R. Lurie, whether he regarded Israel as more a military burden or a blessing. The general replied, "Well, I think it's just got to be considered a burden." Earlier the general had made remarks complaining of Jewish influence in Washington.
        Mr. Churba was born in Brooklyn into a family -- rooted in Syria -- that has  included many Sephardic rabbis. He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1957 and received a doctorate in Middle East studies from Columbia in 1965. He spoke Hebrew and Arabic and was an author.
        Mr. Churba is survived by seven brothers, Albert, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Aaron, David and Rabbi Shlomo Churba, all of Brooklyn; and three sisters, Grace Marcus  and Sarah Churba, both of Brooklyn, and Molly Levin of Spring Valley, N.Y.
      