
        Dr. Louis B. Flexner, the founding director of the Institute of Neurological  Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania who investigated the biochemistry of  memory and the learning process, died on Friday at the university hospital. A resident of Philadelphia, he was 94.
        Dr. Flexner organized the institute in 1954 and by his retirement in 1965 had built it into a leading resource at a time when scientific knowledge of the human brain was rapidly growing. He started with a nucleus of six co-workers, and the institute now has a staff of more than 100.
        His contributions in the field led to his election to the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
        Among other things, his research established that the brain synthesized proteins at a much faster clip than had been thought. He also proved that there  was a link between protein synthesis and both learning and memory. Much of this  work was done together with his wife of 57 years, Dr. Josefa Barba Flexner.
        He came from a family that produced two other prominent medical scientists. An uncle, Simon Flexner, served as professor of pathology at the University of Pennsylvania before becoming director of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New York. Another uncle, Abraham Flexner, conducted a definitive study of American medical schools in 1910 and found most wanting. His classic critique forced many to close, while others drastically changed their policies and curriculums.
        Louis Barkhouse Flexner was born in Louisville, Ky., and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1922. He received a medical degree from Johns Hopkins University, where he returned in 1930 and made his reputation as an investigator. He worked at the department of embryology of the Carnegie Institution from 1940 until he went to the University of Pennsylvania as chairman of the department of anatomy in 1951.
        He continued to work, teach and publish for more than 20 years past the mandatory retirement age of 70.
        "I teach; I do research," he said in 1991. "I do the same amount of teaching  in histology as the regular staff members do, and I don't get paid for it because I don't want to get paid for it."
        Besides his wife, Dr. Flexner is survived by a sister, Miriam Maderer of New  Rochelle, N.Y.
      