
        Benjamin Eisenstadt, the innovative Brooklyn businessman who set Americans to shaking their sugar before sweetening their coffee and then shook up the entire  sweetener industry as the developer of Sweet 'N Low, died on Monday at New York  Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 89 and a major benefactor of Maimonides  Medical Center in Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications of bypass surgery, his son Marvin said.
        Considering the scope of his eventual philanthropy, Mr. Eisenstadt, a Brooklyn resident who gave millions to Maimonides, followed a circuitious path to business success.
        Mr. Eisenstadt, who was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, seemed headed for a brilliant career as a lawyer, but his timing was off. He graduated  first in his class from St. John's University law school in 1929 -- just in time for the Depression. Taking a job at a cafeteria his father-in-law operated in Brooklyn, Mr. Eisenstadt later ran a couple of cafeterias of his own, eventually finding a measure of success by opening one in 1940 on Cumberland Street, in the Fort Greene section, just across from the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which became a boom town in World War II.
        When the end of the war turned the Navy Yard into a ghost town and left him bereft of customers, Mr. Eisenstadt, recalling that his uncle had once operated  a company that filled tea bags, turned the Cumberland Cafeteria into the Cumberland Packing Company, transforming it into a tea bag factory, one that was never a threat to Tetley or Lipton, and which limped toward oblivion in 1947.
        Faced with yet another business failure, Mr. Eisenstadt had the brainstorm that changed the way Americans dispense sugar. The same equipment that injected  tea into tea bags, he realized, could be used to put sugar into little paper packets.
        At a time when restaurants had never used anything but open sugar bowls or heavy glass dispensers, the idea of individual sanitary sugar packets was so revolutionary -- and Mr. Eisenstadt was so naive -- that when he proudly showed  his operation to executives of giant sugar companies, his son said, they simply  set up their own sugar-packet operations.
        A contract with the little Jack Frost sugar company kept Cumberland alive, but without a branded line of its own it was little more than a marginal operation.
        That changed in 1957 when Mr. Eisenstadt and his son Marvin, who had studied  chemistry at the University of Vermont, began fooling around with saccharin. The low-calorie sweetener had been around since the 19th century (Teddy Roosevelt used it), but until then it had been available only as a liquid or in pill form, and its use was restricted to diabetics and the obese.
        When the Eisenstadts mixed saccharin with dextrose and other ingredients to make a granulated low-calorie sugar substitute, another coffee revolution was at hand. Taking care to obtain a patent for the use of saccharin as a sugar substitute, Mr. Eisenstadt, recalling a Tennyson poem that had been made into a  song, came up with the name Sweet 'N Low. The treble-clef musical logo on a pink packet set Sweet 'N Low apart from the white sugar packets on restaurant tables.
        This time, his timing was perfect. The man who had made spooning sugar obsolete and created millions of sugar-pack shakers rode the crest of the health craze of the 1960's.
        In time, an even lower-calorie sugar substitute, aspartame, marketed in blue  packets under the brand name Equal, would challenge Sweet 'N Low. Even so, the company, which also makes a butter substitute, Butter Buds, and a salt substitute, Nu-Salt, still derives the bulk of its revenues from Sweet 'N Low.
        With sales of about $100 million a year, the company, which employs 400 people, turns out 50 million Sweet 'N Low packets a day in what used to be a cafeteria.
        You just can't buy a cup of coffee there anymore.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Neponsit, Queens, Mr. Eisenstadt is survived by his wife, Betty; another son, Ira, of Manhattan; two daughters, Ellen Cohen of Washington and Gladys Eisenstadt of Brooklyn, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      