
        Marcel Bleustein-Blanchet, the grade-school dropout who gave France its first advertising agency, its first radio news programs and its first opinion polls before capping his visionary business career with the startling invention of Le  Drugstore, died on Thursday at his home in Paris.
        He was 89 and had been active until a few weeks ago as chairman of Publicis,  the giant advertising agency he founded as a teen-ager in 1926.
        The youngest of the nine children of a poor Jewish emigre from Russia, Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, whose father eked out a living as a used furniture dealer, grew up in the working-class district of Montmartre dreaming of a better life on the Champs-Elysees.
        Forced to leave school at the age of 12 to help support his family, he held a series of jobs until he hit on the idea that would transform his life and the cultural face of France.
        Convinced that merchants could use -- and would pay for -- professional help  in designing newspaper and other advertisements, at 18 he scraped up enough money to pay for a scouting trip to the United States.
        Although he arrived speaking no English, he absorbed so much of the new American advertising technique that when he returned to France the next year, he promptly opened what is regarded as the first French advertising agency.
        Operating out of two rented rooms and wearing a black jacket, striped pants and a bowler to make himself appear older than his 19 years, he was soon a familiar figure as he canvassed Montmartre looking for business. It was not until Christmas 1927 that he landed his first client, designing an ad featuring  silverware and watches for a neighborhood jewelry store.
        Realizing that radio could be a powerful advertising medium, he moved so fast to capitalize on his idea that by 1929 Publicis was the exclusive agent for all  18 Government-run radio stations.
        He so saturated the airwaves with commercials that five years later the Government banned advertising on state-run stations.
        Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, who tended to read such setbacks as opportunities, reacted by buying a private station in Paris and transforming it into Radio Cite. It became the first station in France to broadcast from 6 A.M. to midnight and the first to offer contests, commercial jingles, talent searches and on-the-scene news reporting, not to mention the first to broadcast the music of  Maurice Chevalier and Edith Piaf.
        By 1939 his booming company had expanded into film distribution and even operated a chain of movie theaters, but the outbreak of World War II changed all that.
        After serving as an intelligence agent for de Gaulle, Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet  fled, one step ahead of Nazi agents, making it safely to Spain by truck hiding under loads of vegetables and coal. Going on to England, Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, a lifelong aviation buff, flew reconnaissance missions over Germany, returning to Paris for the liberation, only to find that retreating German forces had blown up his radio station a day earlier.
        Undeterred as usual, Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, who liked to boast that he had been a millionaire at 25 and ruined by 40, started over, rebuilding his business into one of the world's largest advertising agencies with such long-term clients as Renault, Nestle, L'Oreal and Shell.
        The success brought the fulfillment of a lifelong dream when he acquired an old hotel that had been used as Allied headquarters in World War II and made it  his corporate headquarters, giving him an address on the Champs-Elysees.
        In 1988 he put together what he called a grand alliance, teaming up with the  American agency Foote, Cone & Belding to form Publicis-FCB, which now operates the second largest advertising network in Europe, with annual billings of $3.3 billion.
        For all his success in advertising, he made his most visible contribution to  French culture in 1958 when he transformed the ground floor of his headquarters  into Le Drugstore, a 24-hour emporium complete with a movie theater, gift shop,  soda fountain and even a pharmacy.
        The business was such a success, drawing hordes of shoppers during the day and a chic late-night clientele, that he later opened several others in Paris.
        But for all its popularity with French shoppers (and tourists),there are those who have never forgiven Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet for what he did to their sacred French language by introducing an ungainly alien term.
        Purists were so aghast that the Prime Minister begged him to call it "Bazaar," and a member of the French Academy suggested "Pan." Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, noting that one word was Turkish and the other Greek, said an American name was good enough for him.
        Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet, who became a leading philanthropist with lavish support for the arts and cultural causes, was also highly active in Jewish affairs and an outspoken supporter of Israel.
        He is survived by his wife, Sophie; and two daughters, Elisabeth Badinter and Michele Bleustein-Blanchet, and several grandchildren.
      