
        Raymond S. Rubinow, a longtime political gadfly and New York civic leader who fought with equal zeal to save Carnegie Hall and demolish Tammany Hall, died on  Tuesday at his home in the Esplanade Hotel on West End Avenue in Manhattan. He was 91.
        A self-styled philanthropoid who made a science of giving away other people's money, Mr. Rubinow coined the term in Chicago in the 1930's while working for the Julius Rosenwald Fund, the foundation endowed by the founder of Sears, Roebuck.
        Mr. Rubinow elevated his work to a high art in New York two decades later when he joined the J.M. Kaplan Fund, which had been established in 1947 by Jacob Kaplan, the self-made businessman who had made a fortune by reorganizing the Welch's grape juice company.
        As executive director of the fund from 1955 to 1977, Mr. Rubinow was soon in  the forefront of virtually every do-good cultural, social and civic cause in the city, often as chairman of some long-named committee seeking to preserve, advance or create a piece of the city's heritage.
        His first major success came in the late 1950's when, as chairman of the Joint Emergency Committee to Close Washington Square Park to Traffic, he succeeded in blocking a plan to extend Fifth Avenue through the Greenwich Village park.
        Another came in 1960 when, as chairman of the Citizens Committee for Carnegie Hall, he helped save the venerable concert hall from the wrecker's ball after it had been abandoned by the New York Philharmonic for Lincoln Center.
        His work to keep traffic out of Washington Square Park made Mr. Rubinow something of a hero to many residents of Greenwich Village, particularly the artists, writers and upscale newcomers whose interests often clashed with those  of the older Italian-American community there.
        Mr. Rubinow, who had helped form the first citizens' committee to support the election of Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1953, was soon in the thick of the so-called reform movement to depose Carmine De Sapio, the entrenched leader of the Manhattan Democratic Party whose political power base was in Greenwich Village.
        As chairman of the Democratic Mobilization in 1963, Mr. Rubinow helped a young lawyer named Ed Koch defeat Mr. De Sapio as district leader. Together with Mayor Wagner's famous break with the political bosses that year, the victory effectively shattered the power of the Tammany Hall political machine and laid the groundwork for Mr. Koch's later career in Congress and at City Hall.
        For Mr. Rubinow, a native of Washington who grew up in New York, his role as  an adviser to public figures like Mayor Wagner was something of a family tradition.
        His father, I. M. Rubinow, a Russian-born physician who became an eminent American economist and social theorist, is regarded as an intellectual godfather of Social Security, which was created by the Wagner Act of 1936 after being pushed through the Senate by Mayor Wagner's father, Senator Robert F. Wagner.
        Mr. Rubinow, who graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's degree in economics from the University of Wisconsin, took a while to hit his stride. But after working briefly for the National Recovery Administration and the Social Security Board in Washington and teaching economics at Swarthmore, he found his niche in foundation work, initially as a consultant and later as an executive of a series of foundations before finding a permanent home with the Kaplan fund.
        In the pitched battles between preservationists and developers, Mr. Rubinow was often on the winning side. As chairman of the Emergency Action Committee to  Save the Beach at Breezy Point, for example, he helped preserve the Queens beach from development in 1963 and he had a similar triumph in 1965 as chairman of the Committee to Save Madison Square Park.
        Not all his campaigns were successful, however. In 1967 he was chairman of the Emergency Civic Committee to Oppose a World Trade Center.
        Mr. Rubinow, whose wife, Consuelo Kamholz, died in 1993, is survived by a sister, Dr. Olga Lurie of Mamaroneck, N.Y.
      