
        Saul Bass, the minimalist auteur who put a jagged arm in motion in 1955 and created an entire film genre, died on Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75.
        The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, his family said.
        By training and profession, Mr. Bass was a graphic designer who filled the American landscape with such designs as Exxon service stations and the jars for  Lawry's seasonings. But it was in the movies that he made his most lasting impact, as the man who invented the opening credit sequence as a free-standing movie-before-a-movie and elevated it into an art.
        Movies had always had opening credits, but until "The Man With the Golden Arm," in 1955, they were little more than perfunctory afterthoughts rarely more  creative than having the names of the movie's stars and production staff revealed by the turning pages of the book.
        But when Mr. Bass designed a grotesquely deconstructed arm for Otto Preminger's movie, about heroin addiction, and Mr. Preminger accepted his idea of using the arm as the moving focus of the opening credits, a mini-genre was born.
        The jagged arm was such a powerful symbol of addiction, Mr. Bass once said, that when "The Man With the Golden Arm," opened in New York, a poster depicting  the arm served as the only advertising. When Mr. Preminger learned that projectionists were in the habit of running the credits on a curtain as latecomers were finding their seats, he ordered that they wait until the curtains were opened.
        Mr. Bass's innovation created an army of imitators, many of whom have carried his ideas beyond his original conception.
        Mr. Bass, who designed his first credit sequence for Mr. Preminger's 1954 movie, "Carmen Jones," was not the chief practitioner of the art he invented. While Nina Saxon, for example, has more than 100 titles to her credit, Mr. Bass  produced only 42 and a dozen with his wife, Elaine, but they tended to be memorable.
        He designed the segmented body for "Anatomy of a Murder"; had an aerial camera swoop across Manhattan before zooming in on a schoolyard at the beginning of "West Side Story," and set a black cat walking through the titles of "Walk on the Wild Side." In what was perhaps his most daring innovation in opening credits, he created a reprise of the story of "Around the World in 80 Days" in a 20-minute sequence that did not run until after the movie.
        Mr. Bass, whose father was an immigrant who became a furrier in New York, said he "drew everything" in sight while growing up in the Bronx. After graduating from high school at the age of 15, he audited courses at the Art Students League on scholarship and later studied with Gyorgy Kepes at Brooklyn College before apprenticing with Manhattan design firms.
        Driven by what he once described as "the desire to be able to control the kind of work I do," he moved to Los Angeles in the early 1950's and opened his own studio.
        Mr. Bass, whose first marriage ended in divorce, hired Elaine Makatura as his first employee; they were married in 1961.
        Even as he was creating memorable title sequences, he longed for even more control, and with his wife he made a series of acclaimed short movies, among them "From Here to There" (1964) and "Why Man Creates," which won an Oscar for documentary short subject in 1968.
        Mr. Bass, who did the titles for Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" and "North by Northwest," did even more for "Psycho." The director had become so impressed by  Mr. Bass's work that he recruited him to help plan the famous 70-shot shower sequence of this 1960 film. The same year he also helped Stanley Kubrick design  the final battle scene in "Spartacus."
        Moviegoers may have thought that Mr. Bass had retired by the 1980's, but while he stopped producing title sequences he stepped up his work for corporate  America, adding to a list of credits that included trademarks and corporate identification for A.T.&T., the Bell System, Minolta and Quaker Oats. For United Airlines, Mr. Bass designed virtually every image used by the company, including the very airplanes. He won such wide acclaim that he was sometimes called "the Picasso of commercial artists," and his work was included in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Smithsonian Institution. An exhibition of his work was recently held at the School of Visual Arts in New York.
        Not that he abandoned movie titles entirely. Working with his wife, he returned to movie work with "Broadcast News," in 1987. He also produced the titles for Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas," "Cape Fear," "The Age of Innocence" and "Casino," with the image of the man falling through fire.
        He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Jennifer Glover of Los Angeles and Andrea, of Vancouver, British Columbia; two sons, Jeffrey, of Buenos Aires, and Robert, of Los Angeles, and one granddaughter.
      