
        Ross David Siragusa, who founded the Admiral Corporation and led its growth from a small radio manufacturer to one of the country's leading makers of televisions, audio products, refrigerators and other home appliances, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 89.
        Admiral, which was founded in 1934 as the Continental Radio and Television Corporation, was Mr. Siragusa's second electronics venture. The first, the Transformer Corporation of America, was founded in 1924, after Mr. Siragusa graduated from Loyola Academy High School in Chicago. The company grew quickly by selling battery chargers for radios, which in that era used "wet" batteries that needed frequent recharging.
        By 1929, Mr. Siragusa's company was the largest seller of radio transformers in the country, and its founder, flush with success, turned down an offer to buy the company for more than $5 million. But five years later, the Transformer Corporation went out of business, a victim of the Depression.
        Mr. Siragusa immediately turned to the more lucrative field of manufacturing  radios. In 1934, after selling his automobile and most of his home furnishings,  Mr. Siragusa put $3,400 of his own and borrowed money toward a new venture, the  Continental Radio and Television Corporation, which later changed its name to Admiral.
        Within two years, the company's annual sales exceeded $2 million, and by the  time the United States entered World War II, revenues topped $9 million. Growth  exploded with the arrival of contracts for military electronics during the war, after which Mr. Siragusa steered Admiral into another field with vast potential -- television.
        In 1950, Admiral produced more than one million television sets; the following year, it made five million. Growth appeared unlimited until economic and technological changes nearly brought down the company.
        In 1951, disputes over which regulatory framework would rule the market for color television, combined with a new 10 percent excise tax on television sets,  left major manufacturers with huge inventories.
        But by offering huge discounts on its television sets and increasing its promotion of refrigerators, electric ranges and other home appliances, Admiral survived the downturn in the television industry.
        Still, other technological innovations continued to vex Mr. Siragusa.
        "I also can't see the market potential for home video tape recorders except for the very wealthy," he told The New York Times in 1965.
        In 1973, with Admiral's sales topping $600 million but with profits falling sharply, the company agreed to be acquired by the Rockwell International Corporation for $78 million. Rockwell later sold Admiral's domestic appliance business to Magic Chef Inc.
        At the time of the sale to Rockwell, the 34 percent of Admiral owned by Mr. Siragusa and his family was worth $26.5 million. Some of the proceeds of the sale went to the Siragusa Foundation, a Chicago charitable corporation founded in 1950. Mr. Siragusa served as chairman of the group until his retirement in 1993.
        Mr. Siragusa is survived by his wife, the former Martha Ellen Peace, of Chicago; three sons, Ross Jr., of Fort Payne, Ala., John, of Chicago, and Richard, of Lake Forest, Ill.; 12 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. A daughter, Mary Irene, died in 1980. Mr. Siragusa's first wife, Irene O'Brien, died in 1969.
      