
        Roosevelt (Booba) Barnes, a master of Mississippi juke-joint blues, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Chicago. He was 59 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his niece, Lois Diane Wallace.
        Mr. Barnes spent most of his career playing unvarnished Delta blues in the clubs and juke joints around Greenville, Miss. He was a showman who wore iridescent suits, duckwalked across the stage and picked his guitar with his teeth. But his knowing voice and spiky, syncopated electric guitar parts maintained a tradition of the blues as dance music, unflinching but resilient.
        Mr. Barnes was born Sept. 25, 1936, in Longwood, Miss., and began playing the harmonica when he was 7. By the time he was a teen-ager, he was sitting in with bands at local juke joints and parties. Eventually, he decided to lead his  own bands, and taught himself to play guitar in his 20's.
        He moved north to Gary, Ind., and to Chicago, working in a steel mill, but returned to the Delta in 1972, settling in Greenville, Miss. With his new band,  the Playboys, he performed at rural juke joints by the cotton fields and in Greenville's locally renowned, sometimes notorious strip of blues clubs on Nelson Street. In 1981, he opened his own Playboy Club in a former used-furniture store on Nelson Street.
        By the end of the 1980's, Mr. Barnes's reputation began to spread outside the Delta. His album, "Heartbroken Man" (Rooster Blues), was released in 1990, and he began touring nationally and internationally. A set at his Playboy Club was filmed for the 1992 documentary "Deep Blues," which yielded a soundtrack album on Atlantic Records. Mr. Barnes moved to Chicago in the early 1990's, and continued performing until shortly before his death.
        In addition to his niece, he is survived by his mother, Carrie Barnes of Greenville; four brothers, Richard, Tom and Isaiah, of Chicago, and Frank, of Greenville; a sister, Dorothy Jones of Chicago; 10 children, and eight grandchildren.
      