
        Stirling Silliphant, the highly prolific and successful screenwriter who won  an Academy Award for writing "In the Heat of the Night" in 1967, died yesterday  in Bangkok at the age of 78. In 1988, after three decades of writing for movies  and television, Mr. Silliphant left California and moved to Thailand.
        The cause of death was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        As the author of scores of movies and television dramas, Mr. Silliphant was  regarded as one of the fastest, most reliable writers in the business. He wrote  the screenplays for "The Poseidon Adventure" (with Wendell Mayes) and "The Towering Inferno," among many opher films.
        In the 1960's, he was a creator and principal writer for the television series "Route 66" and "The Naked City." Although he was also a producer and novelist, he was best known for his realistic, action-filled screenplays.
        "In the Heat of the Night" made him famous and became the signature event in  his career. As adapted from a novel by John Ball, the movie starred Rod Steiger  and Sidney Poitier. Mr. Steiger played a redneck police chief in Sparta, Miss.,  and Sidney Poitier was Virgil Tibbs, a sharp-sighted police detective from Philadelphia, who just happens to be passing through town and becomes caught up  in solving a murder.
        In the film's most memorable dialogue, Mr. Steiger says, mockingly: "Virgil.  That's a funny name for a nigger boy that comes from Philadelphia. What do they  call you there?" Narrowing his eyes, Mr. Poitier answers with icy anger, "They call me Mister Tibbs."
        "In the Heat of the Night," which was directed by Norman Jewison, won five Academy Awards, including best picture and best actor (Mr. Steiger). Mr. Silliphant received his award for writing the best screenplay based on material  from another medium. "In the Heat of the Night" inspired the long-running television series starring Carroll O'Connor and Howard E. Rollins.
        Mr. Silliphant's next film was a change of pace: he wrote the screenplay for  the warmhearted "Charly," based on the novel "Flowers for Algernon," by Daniel Keyes. Cliff Robertson won an Academy Award for best actor in his role as the mentally retarded hero.
        Mr. Silliphant was born in Detroit in 1918. After graduating from the University of Southern California, he worked in the advertising and promotion departments of the Walt Disney company and 20th Century Fox. In 1952, he resigned from Fox to produce the movie "The Joe Louis Story" and to write stories, novels and screenplays. In 1955, he produced "Five Against the House" and collaborated on its screenplay. He then concentrated on screenwriting.
        In the 1970's, he specialized in high-budget disaster films, proving himself  adept in a genre based more on spectacle and special effects than on words. Mr.  Silliphant's other films included "Maracaibo" (based on his novel), "Village of  the Damned," "The Slender Thread," "The Liberation of L. B. Jones," "Murphy's War," "The New Centurions " "The Killer Elite" (directed by Sam Peckinpah), "The Enforcer, "Telefon," "The Swarm," "Over the Top" (a movie about arm wrestling in which he shared screen credit with Sylvester Stallone) and "The Grass Harp."
        He also wrote for many major television series, including "Alfred Hitchcock Presents," "General Electric Theater" and "The Chrysler Theater" as well as the  mini-series "Pearl," "James A. Michener's 'Space"' and "Mussolini: the Untold Story.!'
        In the 1980's, he became increasingly disillusioned with Hollywood.  He sold  his two homes in California, his yacht and his valuable coin collection and moved to Thailand. He left the United States, he said, to change his life and to get away from what he described as "the eel pit of Hollywood." After years of being in the movie spotlight, he luxuriated in the privacy he found in his adopted country. He became a Buddhist.
        "Nobody knows me here," he said. "I'm an observer, a sojourner, a ghost." He  also said it felt good "to be part of the human stream, and not some Hollywood big shot." While in Thailand, he worked on various movie and television projects, including "The Fusion" and "Day of Reckoning," and had plans to help expand the local film industry.
        He is survived by his wife, Tiana Du Long, an actress, and two children, Stirling and Dayle.
      