
        Brent Williams, a sure-fielding tenor who gave up baseball for singing and ended up glad-handing his way through the New York music world as a longtime officer of The Bohemians and its Musicians Foundation, died on April 18 at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 85.
        A native of Fulton, Ky., Mr. Williams blamed an older sister for diverting him from baseball to music by teaching him to play the piano. But it was his promising voice and a high school music prize that led him to Hollywood in the 1930's.
        He worked as both actor and singer until a part in a stage production of "The Student Prince" with Mario Lanza took him to New York for a six-month Broadway run that extended into a lifelong role as the chief social director of  the city's classical musical community.
        Although he had a respectable singing career, including appearances at Salzburg, Tanglewood and Carnegie Hall with such organizations as the Dessoff Choirs and the Cantata Singers, it became apparent that his true talent was for  gregariousness.
        By the mid 1940's he was a mainstay of The Bohemians, the New York musicians' club whose monthly meetings and multicourse annual dinners-cum-concerts have been a magnet for classical musicians since 1907.
        Mr. Williams, the club's longtime secretary, served as its president during the 1980's and spent 25 years as executive director of its charitable foundation, dispensing significant financial support to impoverished musicians and their families.
        Whether at a club function at a hotel or the National Arts Club at Gramercy Park, Mr. Williams, a man of perpetual good cheer, took special pleasure in serving as social sponsor of struggling young musicians. They benefited from his popularity among established artists, a sometimes introspective lot who inevitably opened up when Mr. Williams approached.
        That, friends said, was because he was never without a warm remark or a joke, often at his own expense. Although he got a certain amount of exercise at his Connecticut home from his passion for gardening, he got even more at the dinner  table, where his fondness for food took a toll on his once athletic build.
        When skeptics, noting his girth and doubting his claims to baseball prowess,  inquired what position he had played, Mr. Williams, a lifelong bachelor, responded with a wink, "I played the field," he said.
        He has no immediate survivors.
      