
        Robert J. Shaw, who wrote the "Who Shot J. R.?" episode of "Dallas," which attracted the biggest television audience in history at the time, died on March  30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, said his cousin James C. Magill Jr.
        Mr. Shaw, a small, dapper man, who liked to boast that he was continuously employed in the entertainment business 'or 53 years, was a prodigious writer of  radio serials, soap operas and television dramas. He was born in Waukesha, Wis., and brought up in Pewaukee, a town "founded solidly on people of amity and comity," he wrote in a memoir for the Pewaukee H'storical Society.
        Mr. Shaw graduated from the University of Wisconsin, where his writing teachers included Wallace Stegner and Sinclair Lewis. He made his way to New York, where in 1940, at age 23, he sold his first serial, "Front Page Farrell,"  about a newspaperman from Pewaukee, to NBC. "Mr. District Attorney," another of  Mr. Shaw's radio creations, ran 11 years, with Mr. Shaw writing all 572 episodes.
        When Mr. Shaw pas hired to write "Search for Tomorrow," during the 1977-1978  season, the star, Mary Stuart, who had been on the show for nearly a quarter century by then, asked his plans for her character. Mr. Shaw had planned "one of the most tried-and-true plot devices in serials: a mastectomy," he wrote.
        "The mastectomy will fascinate my viewers," Ms. Stuart replied, according to  Mr. Shaw's account, "because it will be my third."
        During the late fifties and early sixties in Hollywood, Mr. Shaw wrote "Hawaiian Eye" and "Peyton Place" for television.
        But it was in 1980 that Mr. Shaw scored his biggest triumph. He was head writer on "Dallas," about J. R. Ewing, the rapscallion Texas oilman played by Larry Hagman. At the season's end, Mr. Shaw was challenged with keeping the audience hooked over the summer. He decided to have J. R. shot, called the next  season premiere "Who Shot J. R.?" and left audiences to wonder.
        The question became an emblem, with motorists displaying bumper stickers of it. On Nov. 21, 1980, 83 million people (53 percent of American households) watched the episode. They learned that J. R. survived and that the culprit was his sister-in-law and former mistress, Kristin (played by Mary Crosby).
        Also in the early 1980's, Mr. Shaw wrote "General Hospital" for ABC, creating the lovers Luke and Laura and reviving the daytime show's ratings. In recent years, Mr. Shaw taught a popular extension course on soap opera writing at the University of California, Los A'geles.
        There are no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  May 1, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on April 22 about Robert J. Shaw, a television writer. misattributed the Nov. 21, 1980, episode of "Dallas," which revealed who shot the character J. R. Ewing, and misstated its place in the sequence. The author was Loraine Despres, not Mr. Shaw; it was the fourth episode of the season, not  the premiere.
      