
        Leo Joseph Cardinal Suenens, whose public and behind-the-scenes leadership at the Second Vatican Council made him a major architect of 20th-century Roman Catholicism, died yesterday in Brussels. He was 91.
        Active to his last day, the retired Archbishop of Mechelen-Brussels and Primate of Belgium was planning to attend a symposium in his honor at John Carroll University in Cleveland at the end of this month.
        Apart from Pope John XXIII and Pope Paul VI, Cardinal Suenens would rank among the two or three most important leaders of the Council," said the Rev. Joseph A. Komonchak, a professor of theology at Catholic University in Washington.
        The landmark meetings of the world's Catholic bishops, held in four sessions  from October 1962 to December 1965, authorized changes in the liturgy, including the use of local languages instead of Latin, expanded the role of lay people, endorsed religious liberty and promoted dialogue with other religious groups and revised the hostile stance that the church had taken toward modernity.
        None of this might have been accomplished without the skillful intervention of Cardinal Suenens (pronounced SOO-nens) in the spring of 1962. Vatican II's preparatory commissions had produced dozens of proposed texts, many of them rigid and restrictive in tone, that promised either to bog down the bishops in details or put pressure on them to rubber-stamp the documents.
        Cardinal Suenens sent Pope John XXIII a critique of these texts and earned his approval to prepare an alternative agenda for the Council, focusing on a handful of key questions and dividing the work into internal church reform on the one hand and the church's relations with the rest of the world on the other.
        The Belgian Cardinal's presentation of this alternative approach during the Council's first session was a turning point in the bishops' deliberations. Pope  John then appointed him to a new coordinating committee that reviewed all the preparatory material before the next session in 1963 and essentially set the agenda for the entire Council.
        Pope Paul VI, who succeeded Pope John in June 1963, made Cardinal Suenens one of the four moderators of the Council who presided over it.
        Among the causes the Cardinal advocated were modernization of the garb and life style of Catholic nuns, expansion of the laity's responsibilities, ordination of married men to serve as deacons, mandatory retirement for bishops  and renewed ties with other branches of Christianity and with Judaism.
        He called for the church to re-examine its condemnation of contraception, and when Pope Paul took the question out of the hands of the Council, he warned that the church must "not have another Galileo case." But the debate that he helped start ultimately ended with a reassertion of the existing condemnation by Pope Paul VI in 1968.
        Later that year, in a book titled "Co-Responsibility in the Church," the Cardinal expressed concern that the Vatican was retreating from the Council's movement toward shared responsibility and greater lay participation.
        In the spring of 1969, on the eve of a meeting of Europe's bishops, he gave interviews in the European press criticizing centralized governance of the church by the Vatican authorities and proposing reforms on issues ranging from the Vatican diplomatic corps to the way popes are elected.
        In 1970 he renewed his criticism, insisting that the hierarchy should be free to debate opening the priesthood to married men. This time Pope Paul VI, without mentioning Cardinal Suenens, expressed "grieved astonishment" at those who criticized papal policies.
        Despite his identification with liberalizing tendencies in the church, the Cardinal was also a defender of traditional veneration of the Virgin Mary and, above all, of the wave of charismatic or pentecostal Catholicism that surged in the late 1960's and 1970's. As a sympathetic liaison between it and the Pope, he helped contain any tendencies within it to splinter from the church.
        Born on July 16, 1904, he was four when his father died. Although wealthy childless relatives wanted the young Leo Joseph to study economics and manage their fortune, he chose the priesthood instead. He obtained doctorates in theology and philosophy along with a degree in church law in Rome.
        After a turn as a seminary professor, he became vice rector of Louvain University during World War II, sometimes circumventing and sometimes openly defying the directives of the German occupiers.
        Made an auxiliary bishop after the war, he was named Archbishop of Mechelen-Brussels in 1961 and a year later, was made a Cardinal. He retired in 1979. Reports about him almost always mention his wit and charm, which went with both an enthusiasm for soccer and an intellectual capacity that made him the author of more than a dozen books.
      