
        William Stuart Brennen, who helped the Beame and Koch administrations to lure businesses to New York City, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72.
        He suffered a brief illness, said Mort Lawrence, a family friend.
        Mr. Brennen also served Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller as First Deputy Superintendent of Banks for four years and was then chairman of the now-defunct  Greenwich Savings Bank. At his death, he was a partner in Brennen & Stack, a law firm dealing with banking, international commerce and real estate.
        Mr. Brennen first seemed headed for a career on the high seas. He graduated as a licensed ship's officer from the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, L.I., and served in the Allied landings in North Africa, Anzio, Italy, and Normandy, France, during World War II. After three and a half years of sea duty, he went on to graduate from Columbia College in 1947 and from Columbia Law School two years later. He then joined the state's Banking Department.
        Starting in the late 1940's, he took part in politics as a member of the Young Republican Club, helping to map strategy for local and statewide campaigns.
        He supported Mr. Rockefeller's bid for the gubernatorial nomination in 1958,  and when Mr. Rockefeller moved into the Governor's mansion he promoted him to First Deputy Superintendent.
        The Greenwich Savings Bank recruited him as senior vice president in 1963 and elected him president in 1969 and chairman in 1971. He retired 10 years later when the bank was merged into the Metropolitan Savings Bank.
        While still at the bank in 1974, Mr. Brennen was asked by Mayor Abraham D. Beame to form the New York City Industrial Development Agency, which he served as volunteer chairman for 12 years. During that time, the agency approved more than $500 million in loans to companies wanting to do business in the city.
        In 1983, Mr. Beame's successor, Edward I. Koch, called on Mr. Brennen to help revamp the city's economic apparatus, and he served successively as Commissioner of Business Development and Commissioner of International Business Development.  He retired from city service in 1986 to practice law.
        Mr. Brennen is survived by his wife of 45 years, Justine Bright Brennen; two  sons, Stephen, of Chicago, and Robert, of Pearl River, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      