
        David M. Kennedy, who was Secretary of the Treasury in the first two years of the Nixon Administration, died Wednesday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 90, and had long suffered from a heart ailment.
        Mr. Kennedy, whose career included a succession of Government and business posts, came to prominence as chairman of the Continental Illinois National Bank  and Trust Company when it was Chicago's largest bank. As chairman, he was credited with reinvigorating it after a long malaise and establishing a strong overseas presence.
        He was chosen by President-elect Richard M. Nixon in late 1968 for the top Treasury job, which he held until resigning in late 1970 under pressure from Mr. Nixon, who was unhappy with the nation's stagnant economy and rising inflation.  Mr. Kennedy was succeeded by John B. Connally, a politically astute former Governor of Texas who had been Secretary of the Navy under President John F. Kennedy.
        An early gaffe committed by David Kennedy even before being sworn in to his Treasury post was his refusal at a news conference to rule out the possibility that the Government might raise the price of gold, then fixed officially at $35  an ounce. Shortly afterward he caused another stir with a similar comment about  imposing wage and price controls to curb inflation.
        On leaving the Treasury, Mr. Kennedy was appointed Ambassador at Large, remaining in the Nixon Cabinet, and the President subsequently named him United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        Mr. Kennedy was the son of a Utah rancher and legislator, working on the ranch in the summer and attending school in nearby Ogden in the winter. He frustrated his family's expectations that he would succeed his grandfather as president of the Bank of Randolph when, as a student at Weber State College in Ogden, he decided on a law career.
        After a two-year mission in Britain for the Mormon Church, Mr. Kennedy came to Washington to work as a technical assistant in the Federal Reserve System. He later described this experience -- reopening and liquidating banks -- as having  turned his interest to economics and banking, "and I became impressed with the cooperation possible between business and government."
        He later rose to special assistant to Marriner Eccles, another native of Utah, then chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Mr. Kennedy also received a law degree after attending George Washington University at night.
        In 1946, passing up an offer from a New York bank that would have paid him six times as much, Mr. Kennedy joined the bond department of Continental Bank. By 1955 he was named president, shortly after returning from a 14-month period in which he served as assistant to Treasury Secretary George M. Humphrey.
        After leaving the Government, Mr. Kennedy developed a close business relationship with Michele Sindona, the financier who controlled Franklin National Bank in New York, which collapsed in scandal. Mr. Kennedy testified at  a 1979 trial of three former Franklin executives that he had introduced Mr. Sindona to bank regulators and officials here and abroad, and had once borrowed  $200,000 from the financier for a land venture in Arizona.
        Mr. Kennedy held various lay positions with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, including special representative -- a kind of international ambassador -- for the First Presidency, the top governing body of the Mormon Church.
        Mr. Kennedy's wife, the former Lenora Bingham, died last fall. The couple had four daughters.
      