
        Willi Daume, a longtime German sports official who was instrumental in bringing the Olympic Games back to Germany in 1972, died yesterday in Munich. He would have been 83 on Friday.
        Mr. Daume had been suffering from intestinal cancer, the SID sports news agency said.
        As president of the West German Olympic Committee, Mr. Daume pushed vigorously for the international sporting community to recognize a new Germany by returning the Olympics to his country for the first time since Hitler staged  the Berlin Games in 1936. After the 1972 Games were awarded to Munich, Mr. Daume worked for six years to plan and organize them, and tried to create an atmosphere of warmth and hospitality by arranging for cheerful music and bright  pastel colors.
        When the Games were jolted by the tragic massacre of 11 Israeli athletes and  officials, Mr. Daume served as the chief spokesman for the German organizers.
        Mr. Daume had helped smooth the way with American Olympic officials when he traveled to New York to personally hand-deliver an invitation to the Munich Games in November 1970. Invitations to the other 126 eligible nations were sent  in the mail.
        "Willi Daume was the greatest sports leader in Germany," Juan Antonio Samaranch, the president of the International Olympic Committee, said yesterday. "He has served the Olympic movement with distinction. It is thanks to him that all athletes are taking part in the Olympic Games without any kind of discrimination."
        Mr. Daume, the son of a Dortmund industrialist, participated in the Berlin Games as a member of the German basketball team. After World War II, he began a  career as a sports official, founding the German handball league and then becoming president of the German Sports League in 1950.
        He became a member of the I.O.C. in 1956 and served as its vice president from 1972 to 1976, and he continued serving as president of the German Olympic Committee until 1992. In this capacity, he failed in his effort to bring the 2000 Summer Games to Berlin.
        Mr. Daume was one of the first West German officials in or out of sports to begin to include East Germany when he accepted that country's athletes under their own flag in 1967.
        Inheriting the iron foundry of his father, Wilhelm, in Dortmund, Mr. Daume ran it for nearly four decades, except for a brief interruption for wartime infantry service.
        Mr. Daume is survived by his wife, Rosemarie; a son, Kai, and a daughter, Doreen.
      