
        Adm. Jeremy M. Boorda, the Chief of Naval Operations and the first man in the history of the United States Navy to rise from the lowest rank of sailor to four-star admiral, died today from a self-inflicted gunshot wound at his home in the Washington Navy Yard, Pentagon officials said. He was 57.
        A short, sharp-witted, pipe-puffing, cut-the-claptrap kind of a man, Mike Boorda was a "mustang" -- an officer who worked his way through the enlisted ranks. He quit high school, ran away from home and lied about his age to join the Navy when he was 17. He was not quite 20 when his wife gave birth to their first child, a boy who was severely disabled.
        But Admiral Boorda made the Navy his high school, his college, his graduate  school and his extended family. In 1991, he became the commander of United States naval forces in Europe and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in southern Europe. He designed the doctrine under which NATO forces dropped food to starving Bosnians and then, in the first act of war in the history of the alliance, ordered the bombing of Serbian artillery in 1994.
        He told fellow officers that when he arrived at the Pentagon in March 1994 to become Chief of Naval Operations, the Navy's top commander, he found a bottle of Maalox antacid that had been left in his desk by his predecessor, Adm. Frank B.  Kelso 2d. Admiral Boorda had more than one occasion to use it.
        A legendary hard worker, he sometimes stayed up all night trying to sort out  the Navy's problems. Many were about people: recruiting them, retaining them, raising their morale and reassuring them about their careers as the Navy shrank  after the cold war. He confronted a number of embarrassing personnel problems -- criminal misbehavior by midshipmen at the Naval Academy, repercussions from the  sexual harassment of female officers, and a series of fatal aircraft accidents.
        But Admiral Boorda's personal and professional experiences made him care more about people than about planes and ships, and he would sometimes bend a rule or  regulation to benefit a sailor in need, fellow officers said. That was one reason he was chosen as Chief of Naval Operations, responsible for more than 450,000 active-duty personnel and a roughly equal number of reservists, said Senator John McCain of Arizona, a former Navy pilot.
        Jeremy Michael Boorda was born in South Bend, Ind., on Nov. 26, 1938, according to his Navy personnel file. His grandparents were Jewish immigrants from Ukraine. When he was a boy, his parents, Herman and Gertrude Boorda, opened a dress shop in Momence, Ill. His life was not a happy one. His parents' marriage went sour. He began drinking six-packs of beer and skipping school.
        In 1956, he dropped out and enlisted. At first he hated boot camp, too. And then he started to like it.
        "The Navy replaced alcohol" in his life, he told a crowd of trainees at boot  camp in San Diego seven years ago, when he was the Chief of Naval Personnel. "The Navy filled in some of the things that had been missing in my life. I still wanted to go home, but I wanted to go home wearing a uniform that said I was something special -- that said I had done it."
        He graduated from Officer Candidate School in 1962 and received a bachelor's  degree in political science from the University of Rhode Island in 1971. During  the Vietnam War years, as he rose from ensign to lieutenant to commander, he principally served as an instructor, the commander of a mine sweeper and the commander of the guided missile destroyer Farragut, based in Norfolk, Va. He also served on the ships Craig and Brooke off Vietnam but did not see combat.
        He then worked as a Pentagon personnel official, commander of a destroyer squadron, executive assistant to the Chief of Naval Operations, commander of a cruiser destroyer group and Chief of Naval Personnel before going to Europe. He  became an admiral in 1987.
        Fellow officers said Admiral Boorda began to focus on life when he was 19 and newly married to the former Bettie Moran. Their first child, David, was physically disabled at birth by Goltz syndrome, in which organs and limbs are missing or malformed, and underwent 17 operations in his first four years. When  Admiral Boorda had free time in recent years, he spent much of it at home with David.
        He is survived by his wife; two other sons, Edward and Robert, both naval officers; a daughter, Anna, and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 18, 1996, Saturday
        An article and obituary yesterday about Adm. Jeremy M. Boorda, the Chief of Naval Operations, misstated his age. He was 56, not 57.
      