
        Chet Forte, the 5-foot-7-inch Columbia basketball player who won a national scoring title but earned more fame as the director of "Monday Night Football" before a gambling addiction ended his television career, died in San Diego yesterday of a heart attack. He was 60.
        Mr. Forte suffered three heart attacks in 1987, the year he left ABC and "Monday Night Football." At the time of his death, he was a talk-show host at XTRA-AM, said Jason Stringer, an engineer at the San Diego station.
        But Mr. Forte made his mark as the director of "Monday Night Football," which made its debut in 1970 and has been a television ratings force ever since. His innovations included the use of numerous camera angles and graphics, which are now standard in sports broadcasts.
        "One of these days, they'll come up with a camera an inch long, and we'll stick it on the football," he said in a 1983 interview in which he seemed to be  only half-kidding.
        From his seat in the control room of the production truck, where he faced 20  television monitors, Mr. Forte barked orders to show reactions of players, fans  and coaches. The dramatics, plus the ground-level shots of high-kicking cheerleaders, became a Forte trademark.
        "Monday Night Football" also relied heavily on statistical graphics. "We feel not all our viewers are sitting home 10 feet from their set," Mr. Forte said. "A lot of people watch in bars or clubs, where they can see but they can't really hear. Graphics help them."
        Fulvio Chester Forte Jr. was born Aug. 7, 1935, in Hackensack, N.J., the only child of his sports-loving mother and of a physician. The class president at Hackensack High School, he became an All-American player at Columbia despite being 5-7 and 145 pounds, small even by 1950's standards. In 1956-57, his senior year, "Chet the Jet" led the nation in scoring with a 28.9 average, beating out  Wilt Chamberlain, then a 7-foot Kansas sophomore. As he said then, "Confidence is everything."
        Mr. Forte was a pre-med student, but academic problems ended his chance at medical school. When he graduated, he barnstormed with the Harlem Globetrotters  and failed a tryout with the Rochester Royals. He eventually wound up with CBS,  where he stayed five years before switching to ABC.
        He won nine Emmy awards in his 25-year career at ABC, where he was producer-director of numerous sporting events including the 1968 and 1984 Summer Olympics. But he was unable to find a job in television when he left the network in 1987.
        By that time, he had gambled away nearly $4 million and lost a million-dollar home in Saddle River, N.J. He had begun gambling in the early 1960's, with betting on sports and at casino gaming tables.
        "I bet every single thing," Mr. Forte said in 1992. "I don't know why I didn't stop. My wife said stop. I said, 'Leave me alone.' Did I lose my senses?  Is it a sickness? You bet it is."
        He admitted defrauding a New Jersey businessman of $100,000 to get more gambling money, got into trouble with the Internal Revenue Service and in 1990 pleaded guilty to mail and wire fraud as well as income tax evasion.
        In 1992, Mr. Forte was sentenced to five years' probation, community service  and fines. The judge said the only reason he didn't throw him in jail was that he had reformed.
        "I lost all my money, I lost all my respect," Mr. Forte said at the time. "I  hurt my family, and I hurt my friends."
        He moved from New York to California, where he worked as a radio talk show host for XTRA, an all-sports station in San Diego. He started at $57,800 a year. He had made $900,000 annually at ABC.
        In a 1994 interview, he said he hadn't gambled in more than six years and attended Gamblers Anonymous meetings regularly.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, and their daughter, Jacqueline.
      