
        William Hughes Mulligan, a retired New York lawyer who was dean of the Fordham University School of Law and a Federal appeals court judge, died yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. A Bronxville resident, he was 78.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, the university said.
        Mr. Mulligan also took part in Roman Catholic activities and charitable and professional affairs. He was a past trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Catholic Charities of the Diocese of New York and Fordham University.
        His long association with Fordham as a student, teacher and dean of the Law School came naturally to him. He was a collateral descendant of John Hughes, New York's first archbishop, who founded St. John's College, which later became Fordham University.
        Mr. Mulligan was born in the Bronx and graduated from Fordham in 1939 and from the law school in 1942, after which he was a special agent in the Army Counter-Intelligence Corps for four years. He returned to the law school in 1946 as a lecturer.
        He was promoted to professor of law and assistant dean in 1954 and was dean of Fordham law school from 1956 to 1971. With the increased administrative duties, he limited his teaching load to two courses, in antitrust and insurance  law.
        As dean, he also served under Gov. Averell W. Harriman and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller as a member of the Law Revision Commission.
        Governor Rockefeller named him in 1964 to head a seven-member committee to study reapportionment of the Legislature.
        He was appointed in 1971 by President Richard M. Nixon to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, based in New York, and remained on the  bench until 1981 when he joined the firm of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom. He retired in 1991.
        As law dean and Ignatius M. Wilkinson Professor at Fordham, Mr. Mulligan helped organize an educational program in the field of European Community Law, one of the first in the country.
        In his honor, the law school announced the establishment of a William Hughes  Mulligan Chair in International Studies last year.
        Mr. Mulligan's survivors include his wife of 50 years, Roseanna Connelly Mulligan; a daughter, Anne Hartmere; two sons, William H. and Stephen E., and six grandchildren.
      