
        Joseph Barbash, a former partner in the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Mr. Barbash, who lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, was 74.
        The cause was cancer, according to his wife.
        In a 41-year career with Debevoise & Plimpton that ended with his retirement in 1991, Mr. Barbash headed the firm's labor and employment practice and took part in antitrust and general litigation and arbitration.
        He helped negotiate the adoption of a salary cap by the National Basketball Association in 1983 and worked on the rescue of the Chrysler Corporation from financial distress. His pro bono cases included a successful lawsuit in behalf of women who sought to become New York City firefighters.
        Active in the legal community and civic affairs, Mr. Barbash was a member of  the executive committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York and chairman of several of its committees.
        He was vice president of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York; vice chairman of the Senior Employment Services Advisory Council of the New York City Department for the Aging; chairman of the Employment Disputes Committee of the Center for Public Resources, a member of the Chairman's Task Force of the National Labor Relations Board and a member of the board of the Justice Resource Center.
        Mr. Barbash was born in Jersey City. He graduated in 1941 from Rutgers University and received his law degree from Harvard University in 1948.
        Mr. Barbash, who had been a member of the Harvard Law Review, served in 1948-49 as law clerk to Judge Learned Hand of the Federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and was the clerk for Justice Stanley Reed of the United Satets Supreme Court for a year before joining Debevoise & Plimpton in 1950.
        In addition to his wife, Carol Lamberg, Mr. Barbash is survived by two children, Ilisa Barbash of Martinique and Thomas Barbash of Menlo Park, Calif.;  two stepchildren, Andrew A. Bernstein and Donna L. Bernstein, both of Manhattan, and a grandchild. Mr. Barbash's first wife, Heather Livingston Barbash, died in  1981.
      