
        Bill Byers, a trombonist best known for his work as a musical arranger, died  at his home in Malibu, Calif., on Wednesday, his 69th birthday.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        During a career in which he scored more than 100 movies, orchestrated dozens of Broadway shows and wrote arrangements for hundreds of television shows, Mr. Byers, who divided his time between New York and Los Angeles with several sojourns in Paris to break the bicoastal monotony, was in such demand that he rarely had a day to himself.
        That was partly because Mr. Byers was regarded as a versatile virtuoso, an arranger who seemed equally at home coaxing, say, a winsome mood out of a composition for a string orchestra or giving a playful edge to a jazz tune.
        When Mr. Byers did try to take time off, chances are the phone would ring and he would be off on another project, orchestrating the music for the opening ceremonies for the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, for example, or, more recently, providing the arrangements for Kelsey Grammer's first recording.
        Mr. Grammer, better known as the television actor on "Frasier," was undoubtedly grateful to record the work of a man whose list of credits includes  concert and recording arrangements for such vocal giants as Tony Bennett, Bing Crosby, Billy Ekstine, Diana Ross, Frank Sinatra, Barbra Streisand, Sarah Vaughan and Andy Williams.
        Mr. Byers once attributed his success to the fact that like many other top arrangers he played the trombone.
        "Trombonists sit in the center of the orchestra," he said. "They develop an empathy for more instruments that way."
        If so, Mr. Byers came to his central career by accident. A musical prodigy who took up the piano at 6 and was playing professionally at 8, Mr. Byers, a Los Angeles native who eventually performed with the Hollywood Canteen Kids, was stricken with arthritis when he was 14 and had to give up the piano.
        To further his musical career, he had to overcome another obstacle. His father, a prominent surgeon, insisted that he go to college to prepare for law school, but Mr. Byers outfoxed him. He went to Harvard, well outside the range of his father's supervision, and proceeded to major in New York City, spending so much time there he was soon sitting in as a regular at Manhattan jazz clubs.
        It took World War II to bring his academic career to an end, and after serving in the Army Air Forces he toured with Benny Goodman, began his television career at the age of 23 with Sid Caesar's "Show of Shows" and discovered Paris, where he wrote for radio orchestras, played in jazz clubs and taught Paul Newman to play the trombone for the 1961 movie "Paris Blues."
        In the following years, he bounced back and forth between New York and Paris, performing with Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Quincy Jones and other jazz musicians and providing arrangements. Along the way, Mr. Byers, who once learned to play the vibraphone in three weeks so a friend could take a vacation, developed such a reputation for versatility that he would play in a Broadway pit one night and join a classical symphony orchestra the next.
        Working in a field that Richard Rodgers once dismissed as "a difficult technical task," Mr. Byers, whose arrangements were credited with putting the swing in the musical "City of Angels," received a somewhat higher accolade from  the show's composer, Cy Coleman. After receiving a 1990 Tony Award for his score, Mr. Coleman hailed Mr. Byers as an artist. "He puts into his orchestrations everything I put into my music," he said.
        Mr. Byers is survived by his wife, Yuriko; two sons, Kimiko, of Malibu, and Bryant, of Culver City, Calif.; a daughter, Michiko, of Santa Monica, Calif.; his mother, Mary, of Los Angeles, and a sister, May Byers of Long Beach, Calif.
      