
        Norman Rene, a director closely associated with the playwright Craig Lucas and a founder and the artistic director of an Off Off Broadway group, the Production Company, died on Friday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 45.
        The cause was AIDS, Debra Kletter, a friend, said.
        As a director, Mr. Rene, who oversaw both the theatrical and film versions of Mr. Lucas's plays "Prelude to a Kiss" and "Reckless" and the film of his screenplay, "Longtime Companion," was known for his skill at eliciting finely detailed, naturalistic performances from actors and for his mastery of an intimate ensemble style. Reviewing "Prelude to a Kiss" in The New York Times, Frank Rich praised the "alchemy" of their collaboration, which he called "one of the most distinctive and rewarding in current American theater."
        Mr. Rene was born in Bristol, R.I.  He attended Johns Hopkins University for  a year, intending to become a psychologist, then transferred to Carnegie Mellon  University to study acting. While there, he was persuaded that his real talents  lay in directing, and in between school years he took over the Red Barn Theater, a summer repertory theater in Pittsburgh, and ran it for three years.
        After graduating from Carnegie Mellon in 1974, he moved to New York City, and in 1977 he founded the Production Company with three fellow alumni.
        For the next eight years, the company averaged 12 theater and light-night cabaret productions per year, featuring such actors as Julie Hagerty, Judith Ivey, Treat Williams, Mark Linn-Baker and John Glover. Besides works by Mr. Lucas, some of the company's better-known shows included Nicholas Kazan's play "Blood Moon" and the musical revues "Blues in the Night" and "Alec Wilder: Clues to a Life."
        Mr. Rene met Mr. Lucas in 1979 when the aspiring playwright was supporting himself as a member of the chorus in Broadway musicals. Their first collaboration, in 1980, was "Marry Me a Little," a revue of songs that had been  cut from Stephen Sondheim's shows and woven together with a story by Mr. Lucas.  It was followed in 1981 by the play "Missing Persons."
        In 1984, they teamed up again for "Blue Window." There followed "Three Postcards" (1987), a play by Mr. Lucas with music and lyrics by Craig Carnelia;  "Reckless" (1988), which they made into a film last year starring Mia Farrow and Mary Louise Parker, and "Prelude to a Kiss," which received an Obie in 1990 and  moved to Broadway. Mr. Rene also directed the 1992 film version of the play starring Alec Baldwin and Meg Ryan. The film "Longtime Companion," which he directed from an original screenplay by Mr. Lucas, was one of the first films to deal directly with the AIDS epidemic. It won the Audience Award at the Sundance  Festival.
        Mr. Rene also worked with several resident theater companies around the country. He also directed commercial productions both on Broadway and off. They  included Beth Henley's "Debutante Ball" for Manhattan Theater Club, George Furth's Broadway play "Precious Sons," Timothy Mason's play "Fiery Furnace" at the Lucille Lortel Theater and Karen Trott's one-woman show, "Springhill Singing Disaster," at Playwrights Horizons.
        He is survived by his companion, Kevin McKenna; his mother Margaret Rene of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Claudia Karrot of Annapolis, Md.
      