
        William N. Copley, an American Surrealist painter of sweetly risque images of naked women and men in starchy Edwardian suits, died on Tuesday at his home in Sugar Loaf Key, Fla. He was 77 and had lived in Florida since 1991.
        He died of complications of a stroke suffered three weeks ago, said his son,  Billy.
        Mr. Copley led a charmed life that included not only painting but also art dealing and collecting and philanthropy. Born in New York City in 1919, he was orphaned as an infant and adopted by Ira C. Copley, a newspaper tycoon who owned 16 newspapers in Chicago and San Diego. He attended Yale University and worked briefly as a reporter for The San Diego Tribune.
        But a friend introduced Mr. Copley to Surrealist painting, and he became friendly with the colony of expatriate Surrealists then in Los Angeles, including Man Ray and Max Ernst. In 1947 he opened a gallery there to show their work, but closed it when nothing sold, his failure as a salesman of Surrealist art marking the start of his careers as a collector and artist. Over the years he amassed one of the world's most respected collections of Surrealist art, which included Man Ray's unforgettable image of large red lips floating above the landscape. The collection was sold at auction in 1979 for $6.7 million, at the time the highest total for the auction of a single owner's collection in the United States.
        Mr. Copley spent most of the 50's and early 60's living and working in Paris, where his friendship with the Surrealists made him a welcome member of their movement. But the style he perfected was Surrealist only in its emphasis on uninhibited expressions of the libido. His cartoonish figures had affinities to  Pop Art, which they presaged, and drew from American folk art.
        In 1953, Mr. Copley and his second wife, Noma Ratner, founded the William and Noma Copley Foundation, later known as the Cassandra Foundation, which gave small grants to artists. The foundation also gave Marcel Duchamp's last work, "Etant Donnes," to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.Mr. Copley had been one of the few people to see it before then; Duchamp had worked on it in secret for 20 years.
        Mr. Copley's first five marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his son, who is also a painter, he is survived by his wife, Cynthia Gooch; two daughters, Claire of Manhattan and Theodora of Ohio, and four grandchildren.
      