
        Budd Granoff, a one-time Broadway press agent who fell in love hard and ended up as a pioneering television syndicator, died on Sunday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Granoff, who never used hs given name Bernard, received a business degree from New York University and spent World War II as a  radar officer at the Roosevelt estate at Hyde Park (Eleanor Roosevelt used to bring his unit sandwiches) before taking a job with George Evans, an old-line Broadway press agent whose death left Mr. Granoff in charge of a thriving business.
        He built a bicoastal client list that included the likes of Frank Sinatra, Jimmy Durante, Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, Doris Day, Jo Stafford, Montgomery Clift and Mario Lanza, but when he stopped by the Copacabana one night in 1947 to catch a new act, Mr. Granoff, who represented the New York nightclub, was never the same again.
        As he told it to a magazine editor he had in tow that night, "That's the girl I'm going to marry."
        The girl was the singer Kitty Kallen. She was struck by her new admirer's sincerity and integrity, something of a rarity among Broadway press agents of the day, she said, but she was not quite as smitten as he.
        "I gave him a hard time," she recalled yesterday, noting that Mr. Granoff, who had been awash in Copa showgirls, aptly billed as "the most beautiful girls  in the world," never went out with another woman after meeting her.
        The couple were married in 1948, and within a few years Mr. Granoff had jettisoned his public relations business to become his wife's full-time manager. In the interim he had provided the publicity for the opening of the Sands Hotel  in Las Vegas in 1951 and invented what Miss Kallen described as "the very first  telethon," a marathon New York broadcast to raise money for a cardiac hospital,  and, not coincidentally, to provide a showcase for his client hosts, Mr. Martin  and Mr. Lewis.
        Although Miss Kallen had been an established singer when they met, she gave her husband full credit for building her into one of the leading singers of the  1950's. He managed every facet of her career, becoming a music publisher along the way, and picked all of her songs, including "Little Things Mean a Lot," which became the biggest hit of 1954.
        As a manager with a single client, Mr. Granoff had time for other endeavors.  Through friends he got involved in producing television game shows, among them,  "Treasure Hunt," and when his wife introduced him to an old friend from Philadelphia, Chuck Barris, it led to a new career.
        After Mr. Barris went to Los Angeles to create television shows like "The Gong Show," "The Dating Game" and "The Newlywed Game," he persuaded Mr. Granoff  to join him.
        The business association paid off when Mr. Granoff, who was known for having  his finger on the public pulse, sensed that the Barris programs, which had been  relegated to daytime network television, could have a lucrative after-life as prime-time attractions on independent television stations across the country.
        The result is regarded as the first major television syndication operation. After Mr. Granoff's retirement as president of Barris Industries, he continued his interests in music, Democratic Party politics, philanthropy and his wife's career, most recently producing two new collections of her songs.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Jonathan of Philadelphia; a sister, Evette Katz of Fort Lee, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      