
        David Opatoshu, a versatile character actor best known for his role as Akiva, a scholarly Jewish resistance leader in the 1960 film "Exodus," died on Tuesday  at his home in Los Angeles after a long illness. He was 78.
        Mr. Opatoshu, whose father was the Yiddish novelist Joseph Opatoshu, was born in New York City and began his acting career in the Yiddish theater. He made his Broadway debut in 1938 with the Group Theater's productions of the Clifford Odets plays "Golden Boy" and "Night Music." A year later he appeared as Fishke,  a lame boy in love with a blind girl, in the Yiddish film "The Light Ahead," directed by Edgar G. Ulmer.
        After serving with the Air Force in the South Pacific during World War II, he returned to Manhattan and worked in radio, theater, television and films. His wartime experiences provided the material for "Between Sea and Sand," a collection of short stories he published in Yiddish in 1946.
        His theater credits include the musicals "Silk Stockings" and "Bravo Giovanni," the comedies "Me and Molly," "Reclining Figure" and "Once More With Feeling" and the dramas "Flight Into Egypt," "The Wall" and "Lorenzo."
        He made his Hollywood film debut in 1948 in "The Naked City," directed by Jules Dassin, and later appeared in "The Brothers Karamazov," "Party Girl," "Cimarron," "The Best of Enemies," "Torn Curtain," "Enter Laughing" and "The Fixer."
        He wrote the screenplay for "Romance of a Horse Thief" (1971), based on a novella by his father, and also appeared in the film.
        On television he acted in numerous productions on "Studio One," "Philco Playhouse" and "Playhouse 90," and he appeared as a guest star on "Perry Mason," "Kojak," "Star Trek" and other series. In the miniseries "The Trial of the Chicago Seven," he played Judge Julius Hoffman. In 1991 he won an Emmy Award for best appearance in a dramatic series for an episode of "Gideon's Trumpet."
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy, of Los Angeles; a son, Dan, and three stepchildren, Richard Saxon, Jennifer Watson and Nina Saxon Wizan.
      