
        The pianist and composer Jimmy Rowles, one of jazz's most gifted accompanists, died on Tuesday at Thompson Memorial Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his daughter Stacy said.
        For decades, Mr. Rowles was considered by musicians to be one of the finest  accompanists in jazz, serving in that capacity for virtually every major jazz singer, including Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, Sarah Vaughan, Helen Humes, Carmen McRae, Tony Bennett and Peggy Lee. Mr. Rowles's particular genius was his ability to make harmonies flow logically, even when he added his own distinct touches to tunes. One of the most lyrical of jazz pianists, he produced a gorgeous sound, rich and contemplative.
        But Mr. Rowles's abilities were hardly limited to the role of accompanist. A  good portion of his career was spent as an improvising musician, recording with  Stan Getz, Zoot Sims, Red Mitchell and his own daughter Stacy, a trumpeter. He also recorded as a solo pianist. Understatement was his strength, and his best solos often sound preplanned, spare, with each note perfectly chosen for its color. Mr. Rowles had absorbed the music of Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn.  He also sang occasionally.
        Mr. Rowles began playing piano during his freshman year at Gonzaga College. He was initially attracted to the music of the pianist Teddy Wilson, whom he had heard on records of the Benny Goodman Trio. In 1940, he moved to Los Angeles to immerse himself in the city's jazz. He joined Slim Gaillard's group, one of the mainstays on the Central Avenue jazz scene. A bit later, he became part of a group led by Lester Young and his brother Lee, further making his reputation as  one of the better young pianists in jazz.
        In 1941, he worked for the first time with Billie Holiday, then with Ben Webster. A year later, he was employed by Benny Goodman, then joined with Woody  Herman through 1943. After a stint in the Army, he rejoined Herman in 1946, and  played with a number of dance bands, including those of Les Brown, Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman and Butch Stone. Between 1947 and 1951, he worked with Bob Crosby.
        It was listening to big bands, especially those of Ellington and Jimmy Lunceford, that gave Mr. Rowles ideas for accompaniment, he said.
        In the 1950's, he worked and recorded with many vocalists, though he took jobs with Charlie Parker, Benny Carter and Chet Baker. At the end of the 50's, he moved into studio work for television and film, contributing to the shows "M-Squad," "Dobie Gillis" and "Richard Diamond" and collaborating with Henry Mancini for nearly 20 years. All the while, he made his own recordings.
        Mr. Rowles moved to New York in 1973 after an appearance at the Newport Jazz  Festival and performed regularly with Al Cohn and Zoot Sims, often at Bradley's, Knickerbocker Saloon and the Village Vanguard. He became a regular on the New York jazz scene and recorded occasionally, making a highly regarded album with Stan Getz called "The Peacocks" in 1977. In 1980, he recorded "Jimmy Rowles Plays Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn" and in the mid-80's made several albums for Contemporary. In 1994, he recorded his last album, "Lilac Time," for  Kokopelli Records.
        In addition to his daughter Stacy, of North Hollywood, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Dorothy, of Burbank; another daughter, Stephanie, of Cambria, Calif., and a son, Gary, of Philomath, Ore.
      