
        Dr. Peter F. Ostwald, an author, professor of psychiatry and the founding director of the Health Program for Performing Artists at the University of California at San Francisco, died on Saturday at his home. He was 68 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was cancer, said his family.
        Dr. Ostwald was recognized internationally for his work on the interaction between music and psychiatry. He was the author of a pioneering biography on Robert Schumann, "Schumann: The Inner Voices of a Musical Genius" (1985), the first work to attempt an exact diagnosis of Schumann's severe mental disorders as they related to his compositions and creative life.
        "Dr. Ostwald's biography is never a muckraking job," Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times Book Review. "Soberly and objectively, it unearths information that no previous Schumann researcher -- in English, at least -- has  come near duplicating."
        The Berlin-born Dr. Ostwald received his medical degree from the University of California at San Francisco in 1950. After service in the Army Medical Corps  in Germany, he returned to the university in 1956 to join the staff of the Langley Porter Psychiatric Institute. There, in 1986, he founded the Health Program for Performing Artists, a voluntary group of specialists engaged in research, education and clinical care of the particular mental and medical problems afflicting musicians, dancers and other performing artists, both professionals and students. For many years he served as mental health consultant to the San Francisco Conservatory of Music.
        Dr. Ostwald also instituted a seminar on psychobiography at Mount Zion Hospital in San Francisco. His work resulted in articles, papers and other books, including "Vaslav Nijinsky: A Leap Into Madness" (1991) and "Glenn Gould: Ecstasy and Tragedy of a Genius," which is scheduled to be published next year by W. W. Norton. In 1993, he presented introductory lectures at Carnegie Hall for the New York Philharmonic's Schumann and Brahms Festival. His work was enriched by his lifelong involvement with music as an amateur violinist.
        At the time of Dr. Ostwald's death, the pianist Charles Rosen was performing  works of Schumann at a conference on "Mood, Madness and Music" in Montreal at which a recent paper by Dr. Ostwald was read by a colleague.
        Dr. Ostwald is survived by his wife, the former Lise Deschamps, a concert pianist; a daughter, Chantal, of Beltsville, Md.; a son, David, of St. Helena, Calif., and a brother, Thomas, of Rancho Mirage, Calif.
      