
        Peter E. Obletz, a dance-company manager and railroad buff who lived aboard two dining cars parked behind Pennsylvania Station in the 1970's and 80's, died  on April 23 at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Ruth Moore, an assistant to his lawyer.
        Mr. Obletz, who graduated from Hamilton College in 1967 and Yale School of Drama in 1972, was trained as an arts administrator. He managed the Alwin Nikolai and Murray Louis dance companies in the 1970's and, as a director of a Unesco agency, organized conferences on dance copyright issues and the social welfare of dancers.
        In the 1980's, he was the chairman of Community Board 4 on the West Side of Manhattan and the chairman of its transportation committee. He was also a consultant to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the subway and rail  lines it runs.
        But above all, he was a rail buff. In the 1970's, he bought an Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway dormitory diner, a car with tables for passengers and  bunks for the cooks and waiters, that had been in service since the 1940's. He coupled it to a leased rail car from the old New York Central that had been half of a "twin-unit diner," made for long cross-country trains.
        Mr. Obletz got the dining half, with its stainless steel walls, Formica tables and leathery banquettes. (The half he did not get was the kitchen.)
        He parked the two cars on part of a track behind Penn Station, the site above which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed building a new Yankee Stadium. Hauling his half of the twin-unit car into its space was a two-day adventure. The car had been in storage in Lebanon, N.J., but to get it across the Hudson River, Mr. Obletz had to have it pulled to Albany and back to Manhattan.
        In 1982, he ventured onto a section of abandoned elevated rail line that had  once run from the old Washington Market in lower Manhattan to Spuyten Duyvil at  the northern end of the island. The line once carried freight cars loaded with produce, meat, fabrics and newsprint to wholesale markets and factories in Harlem and the West Side, but it carried its last train -- three box-cars of frozen turkeys -- in April 1980.
        Mr. Obletz bought a two-mile section of the line through Chelsea from Conrail for $10. He figured that for about $250,000, he could lease a locomotive and some second-hand parlor cars and carry tourists, commuters and park-and-ride visitors to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which was under construction  then.
        To bring the line back to life, he set up the West Side Rail Line Development Foundation. But the blare of train whistles and the rumbling of locomotives were never heard. After five years in various courts, fighting the state, the city and property owners along the line who wanted the line demolished, he turned the tracks back to Conrail.
        He is survived by his companion, Greg Jones; his parents, Bernard and Louise  Obletz of Buffalo; his grandmother, Rose Obletz of Buffalo; three brothers, Stephen, of Buffalo, Thomas, of San Rafael, Calif., and Douglas, of Portland, Ore.; a sister, Betty Jones of Portland, Maine, and 13 nephews and nieces.
      