
        David Lasser, an immigrant's son whose vision of the future inspired men to build and fly rockets to the heavens and whose concern for life on earth impelled him to champion and organize the unemployed during the Great Depression, died on Sunday at the Remington Senior Care Facility in Rancho Bernardo, Calif., a San Diego suburb. Mr. Lasser, who lived in Rancho Bernardo, was 94.
        Mr. Lasser's pioneering sense of the potential of rocketry was expressed in a 1931 book "The Conquest of Space," and it led him to form the organization now known as the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. But his vision  grew from an unlikely source: Mr. Lasser, as managing editor of a magazine called Science Wonder Stories, grew dissatisfied with the propulsion imagined by his authors for their space ships. Drawing upon his background in engineering, he conducted his own research and realized that the rocket -- the very same instrument used against the British in the War of 1812 and embodied in the lyrics of the national anthem -- would make space travel possible.
        As the Depression deepened, Mr. Lasser's socialist sympathies prompted him to turn to labor organizing, a campaign that rallied hundreds of thousands to his Workers Alliance of America, later the American Security Union. After earning the respect of statesmen like President Franklin D. Roosevelt and W. Averell Harriman, Mr. Lasser fell victim to the Red hunts after World War II, when he was smeared with a baseless charge of Communism that barred him from Federal service.
        In 1980, President Jimmy Carter expunged the canard with a letter that said:  "This nation has a deep and abiding commitment to human rights. When lapses occur, it is important that they be corrected. I am glad that my Administration  has had the opportunity to correct the record in your case."
        Mr. Lasser, a son of Russian immigrants, was born in Baltimore and grew up in Newark, where his father, Leonard, cleaned and repaired clothes in a small shop.
        A high school dropout who went to work to help his family, David was almost 16 when he lied about his age to enlist in the Army in World War I.
        After returning to the United States, he was accepted by the Newark College of Engineering with the proviso that he attend high school and earn a diploma. But within a year, he decided that his electrical engineering course was too narrow to pave his way into management, so he presented himself at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and asked for a chance. In 1924, he was awarded a bachelor's degree in engineering. For a few years, he worked in small  factories, and then, in 1927, impulsively, he answered an advertisement for managing editor of Science Wonder Stories.
        Arthur C. Clarke, now the dean of science-fiction visionaries, described "The Conquest of Space" as "the first book in the English language to explain that space travel wasn't just fiction." He credited his encounter with the book as being "one of the turning points in my life -- and I suspect not only of mine."
        Indeed, not.
        One night in 1929, Mr. Lasser convened a group of writers in his Greenwich Village apartment. The organization they formed to promote space travel by means of rocketry called itself the American Interplanetary Society. Mr. Lasser was its first president. In the 1930's, the organization became the American Rocket  Society, and in 1963, after merging with the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, it became the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, now a 41,000-member organization based in Washington.
        When World War II brought an end to joblessness, Mr. Lasser resigned his union post, worked for the War Production Board, and briefly served Mr. Harriman as a consultant for the Marshall Plan until he was effectively blacklisted. From 1950 until his retirement in 1969, Mr. Lasser was the economics and research director of the International Union of Electrical Radio and Machine Workers.
        Mr. Lasser was also the author of the 1945 book "Private Monopoly: The Enemy  at Home," in which he argued that economic policies motivated by greed were the  source of nearly all modern distress.
        Mr. Lasser, who was married three times, is survived by his wife of 32 years, the former Amelia Tolbert, of Rancho Bernardo; and Daniel Lasser of Rockville, Md., a son by his first marriage, to Florence Glassberg.
      