
        Richard M. Clurman, whose passion for journalism brought him to prominence at Time magazine and Newsday and whose passion for New York City made him a leading figure in its cultural affairs, died on Wednesday at his summer home in Quogue,  L.I. Mr. Clurman, who lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to his wife, Shirley.
        In a career at Time that spanned 23 years, Mr. Clurman held such posts as press editor, chief of correspondents and head of the Time-Life News Service, overseeing a network of 105 staff correspondents deployed throughout the United  States and in 34 cities abroad.
        From 1955 to 1958, he interrupted his tenure at Time, which began in 1949 and ended in 1972, to become the editorial director and executive assistant to Alicia Patterson, the publisher of Newsday.
        In 1973, he became administrator of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs for Mayor John V. Lindsay. Mr. Clurman was also chairman of the New York City Center and a member of the board of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.
        His commitment to journalism and his fascination with its practices and lore  led him to write several books, including "Beyond Malice: The Media's Years of Reckoning," a 1988 analysis of the clash between the public and the press, and "To the End of Time: The Seduction and Conquest of the World's Largest Media Empires," a 1992 account of the merger between Time Inc. and Warner Communications.
        Toward the end of the book, Mr. Clurman wondered if Time's objective of adding "to the quality of knowledge people had about the world" would survive what he called the cultural gap between the corporations.
        "No one should ask that benevolence be the priority of Time Warner or any other public company," he wrote. "What can be asked is that this new company, with its human and material assets, have a spine that is more than stocks, bonds, rights, deals and tightly rolled greenbacks."
        At the time of his death, Mr. Clurman was at work on a book about The Wall Street Journal.
        As sophisticated and accomplished as he was in journalism, Mr. Clurman adopted a self-deprecating attitude toward his activities in other realms. When  named board chairman of the New York City Center of Music and Drama in 1968, Mr. Clurman said: "The suggestion came out of the blue. For 44 years I've done nothing outside of journalism. I haven't even belonged to the P.T.A. or the Red  Cross.
        "At first I thought they were seeking my advice about someone else and then I thought they'd confused me with Harold," he said, referring to his uncle, the critic and director Harold Clurman. "I am neither an impresario nor a tycoon, and impresarios and tycoons are often the moving spirit behind cultural organizations of this sort."
        But within a few years, he was being credited with expanding the activities of the City Center.
        Mayor Lindsay, who was president of the center and leader of its selection committee, clearly valued the fresh eye Mr. Clurman brought to the center and to his post as Parks Commissioner.
        There, Mr. Clurman touched off an immediate furor by declaring at his swearing-in ceremony that he would withdraw all maintenance and services from parks that were repeatedly vandalized and where the community made no effort to  halt the destruction.
        He took pride in coming to the inner workings of the city as an outsider unwise to the way of political patronage.
        "In the world I came from, I had only dispensed jobs on merit," he wrote in 1974 in The New York Times. "So I set about hiring, firing and moving people on the basis of what I thought the parks administration needed. Mr. Lindsay was  so bemused by my political innocence that neither he nor his staff ever suggested I do it any other way. The clubhouse politicians, whose names I eventually learned but from whom I never heard a word, either considered me so ignorant or so temporary as to be unworthy of their presumed power."
        In another article, he recalled his introduction to George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein of the New York City Ballet in his capacity as chairman of the  board of the ballet company and its parent organization, the New York City Center of Music and Drama.
        "I informed them that although I appreciated the other arts and was certainly informed about world affairs, I had been to the ballet only once in my life," he wrote. "Balanchine half rose from his chair and asked incredulously, 'Do you hate the ballet?'
        " 'Not that I'm aware of,' I replied, 'but if I were you, I'd make something  of how seldom I've gone.' "
        Balanchine asked, "Would you open your mind to learning about the ballet?" and, Mr. Clurman wrote, "promptly made an offer that only a dolt could refuse: 'I would like to teach you about it.' "
        Mr. Clurman suggested that he prescribe a bibliography and a list of people to talk to, his usual mode of inquiry and learning as a journalist.
        "No, just watch and listen," Balanchine said. He produced a program and listed seven or eight ballets. For six weeks, Mr. Clurman said, he tried to figure out what was going on.
        "Then one night in the middle of Balanchine's pioneering 'Agon,' I had the epiphany that my teacher had so artfully arranged. Nothing was going on. It was  just bodies moving gloriously to music. From that moment, the ballet became my favorite spectator experience."
        In 1975, after he left Time and municipal administration, Mr. Clurman formed  his own public policy consulting company, Richard M. Clurman Associates. From 1980 to 1984, he also served as adviser to the office of the chairman of Joseph  E. Seagram & Sons. In 1981, he returned to journalism, serving for a decade as the chairman of Columbia University's seminars on media and society.
        Engaged with ideas, Mr. Clurman was noted for dinner parties at which he would tap a spoon against a glass, commanding the attention of his guests -- people like Robert F. Kennedy, William Buckley, Edward Albee, Barbra Streisand and Norman Podhoretz -- and announce a topic they were expected to discuss.
        "I refused to be bored," he said.
        Mr. Clurman was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and of the board of the Citizens Committee for New York City.
        He was born in New York City in 1924. He received a Bachelor's of Philosophy  degree in political science from the University of Chicago in 1946 after serving during World War II in the Information and Education Division of the Army. He began his career in journalism in 1946 as an assistant editor on the magazine Commentary. After joining Time in 1949, he served for six years as its press editor.
        In addition to his wife, the former Shirley Potash, Mr. Clurman is survived by his son, R. Michael Clurman Jr. of Manhattan; two daughters by a previous marriage, which ended in divorce: Susan Emma Clurman of Manhattan and Carol Duning of Alexandria, Va., and two grandchildren.
      