
        Merrill John Mattes, a historian whose work tracing the westward drive of European settlers in the United States is considered among the most authoritative, died of a heart attack last Sunday at the Swedish Medical Center  in Englewood, Colo. He was 85 and lived in nearby Littleton.
        Mr. Mattes, who spent 40 years with the National Park Service, chronicled the tribulations and triumphs of the pioneers pushing their way toward the Pacific Ocean. From 1840 to 1866 an estimated 350,000 settlers went west through Nebraska's Platte Valley. Mr. Mattes documented that history in his meticulously researched books.
        Among his best-known works was "The Great Platte River Road" (University of  Nebraska Press, 1987), which cited a number of excerpts from diaries kept by the settlers in a rich chronicle of the hardships and boredom of the trail.
        The book, first published in 1969, is in its fourth edition. It was followed  by "Platte River Road Narratives: A Descriptive Bibliography of Travel Over the  Great Central Overland Route to Oregon, California, Utah, Colorado, Montana and  Other Western States and Territories, 1812-1866" (University of Illinois Press,  1988). It examined more than 2,000 diaries and journals and is considered the standard research tool for students of the trails.
        His other books included "Indians, Infants and Infantry" (Old West, 1960), and "Colter's Hell and Jackson's Hole" (Yellowstone Library, 1961).
        Mr. Mattes was born in Congress Park, Ill., and graduated from the University of Missouri. He earned a master's degree at the University of Kansas in 1933.
        He joined the Park Service in Scottsbluff, Neb., in 1935 as a park superintendent and retired in 1975 as manager of Historic Preservation of the United States.
        Mr. Mattes is survived by his wife of 53 years, Clara Ritschard Mattes; their sons, Warren, of Omaha, and John, of Dallas; his son by an earlier marriage, David, of Pacifica, Calif.; a sister, Betty Crahan, of Bellingham, Wash.; a brother, Paul, of Kansas City, Mo.; eight grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. His first wife, Eleonor Shutt Mattes, died in 1941.
      