
        Lash LaRue, who expertly cracked a bullwhip in nearly two dozen low-budget westerns of the 1940's, died on May 21 at the Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 79.
        He had recently undergone triple-bypass surgery and suffered from emphysema,  said his wife, Frances Bramlet LaRue, of Gaffney, S.C. Mrs. LaRue said her husband had gone to California in October in hopes of starring in a final film.
        Mr. LaRue, who adopted the nickname Lash after he picked up his whip, was originally named Albert. He was born in Gretna, La., and, after attending the College of the Pacific, he worked as a real estate salesman and later acted on the stage. A colorful storyteller, he liked to say that he had done a screen test for Warner Brothers but had been turned down because he looked too much like Humphrey Bogart, one of the studio's biggest stars.
        Whatever the facts, for several years he struggled playing bit parts.  His big break came with the 1945 film "Song of Old Wyoming," in which he played the  Cheyenne Kid, a hero who violated Hollywood convention by wearing black and riding a black horse, named Rush. He made an instant impression by picking a flower for his paramour with a flick of his bullwhip.
        "The usual cowboy hero won because goodness prevails," said Dennis Rogers, a  columnist at The News and Observer in Raleigh, N.C., who knew Mr. LaRue and wrote about him. "Lash won because he was just tougher than anybody else. He did it by being badder than the bad guys."
        The film spawned a series of bullwhip westerns, including "Law of the Lash,"  "The Caravan Trail," "Border Feud" and "Mark of the Lash." All were low-budget shoot-'em-ups with Mr. LaRue appearing as the Cheyenne Kid or as Lash LaRue. Connoisseurs of the genre hold "King of the Bullwhip" (1951) in particularly high regard.
        When television killed the B western, Mr. LaRue survived by playing character roles. His last film, made in 1961, was "Please Don't Touch Me." From 1952 to 1953 he was the host of "Lash of the West," a showcase of his westerns. In 1959, he played Johnny Behan, the corrupt sheriff on the television show "The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp."
        When his acting career petered out, he took his bullwhip on the road, traveling with circuses, carnivals and Wild West shows. He soon fell on hard times. In 1966 he was arrested in Miami for vagrancy, with only 35 cents in his  pocket. Later he became an evangelist working with alcoholics in St. Petersburg, Fla.
        In 1980, he experienced a resurgence, as nostalgia film clubs found that they could afford to hire Mr. LaRue to appear at their film festivals. In 1986 he appeared in the television remake of "Stagecoach."
        He was the classic cowboy, a man who still wore boots and bolo ties. When his trademark black shirt showed signs of fading, Mr. LaRue would discard it for a new one.
        "He really was a cowboy, that's for sure," Mrs. LaRue said. "He had that manner about him."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons and three daughters. Mrs. LaRue said that her husband, who was rumored to have been married at least  10 times, did not want any information about his family to be known.
        Correction:  June 6, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary on Friday about the film actor Lash LaRue misstated his given name. It was Alfred, not Albert.
      