
        Fred Bridge, the founder of Bridge Kitchenware, for decades the leading cookware supplier for professional and home kitchens, died on Sunday at Ridgewood Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered on April 19 while he was in the hospital being treated for an infection, his son Steven said.
        Mr. Bridge, who sold kitchenware for 63 years, was a complex and controversial man. His almost encyclopedic knowledge about all manner of cooking equipment, from simple skewers and peelers to specialized items like copper turbot poachers and brioche molds, earned him the respect of the chefs, food writers and home cooks who relied on his expertise and the vast and varied inventory of his store.
        "He was the greatest in his field," said Craig Claiborne, the former food editor of The New York Times. "He had a profound influence on everyone who was serious about cooking."
        But he was also brusque and contentious, with little patience for those who he felt were wasting his time. In the Zagat New York Marketplace Survey published last year, he was described as "the best in the business" but also as  someone who had elevated "grumpiness to an art."
        Jean E. Tibbetts, who worked with Mr. Bridge for three years as the co-author of "The Well-Tooled Kitchen" (Morrow, 1991), a guide to kitchenware, said, "He might have been abrasive to some people, but the essence of it was that he was very direct, and to anyone with a genuine interest in the field he would spend endless time and open his heart."
        Carolynn Bridge, his wife of 31 years, said that their son Steven would continue to run the store and that she planned to work with him. The current location, 214 East 52d Street, is the company's fourth.
        Mr. Bridge, who was born in New York City, credited his father, Fred, who sold restaurant supplies, with teaching him about the business. The younger Mr.  Bridge became a restaurant supply salesman in 1933. During his military service  in World War II, he had kitchen assignments that allowed him to learn about professional cooking and equipment. His wife said he used his mustering-out pay  at the end of the war to open his first store, in Chinatown.
        He began selling equipment to such clients as the Stork Club, the "21" Club and the Waldorf-Astoria. By the 1960's, he began importing French and Italian cookware for the many chefs who were coming to work in the United States.
        Around then, Bridge Kitchenware and Mr. Bridge himself became a magnet for legions of newly dedicated home cooks in need of a good knife, a heavy-duty professional-quality saute pan or a set of hard-to-find madeleine pans or truffle cutters. Mr. Bridge also worked with European manufacturers like Wusthof, the German cutler, to develop implements to chefs' specifications.
        Besides his wife and son, he is survived by another son, Christoffer, of Sausalito, Calif., and a sister, Betty Pickles of Franklin, N.C.
      