
        Joseph M. Stone, a Washington labor arbitrator who helped prosecute the German industrialist Friedrich Flick at Nuremberg in 1947, died on May 6 at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 79 and lived in Chevy Chase.
        His family said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        A native of New York who graduated from City College and Brooklyn Law School, Mr. Stone was working for the Labor Department in Washington in 1947 when he was assigned to the prosecution team at the second wave of war-crimes trials that followed the defeat of Germany in World War II.
        Working under the chief prosecutor, Telford Taylor, and his deputy, Charles S. Lyon, Mr. Stone focused on presenting the case against Mr. Flick, the so-called "steel king" of Germany, who was accused of using slave labor to operate his far-flung industrial empire during the war and of plundering captured territories.
        The first of several industrial figures to be tried after the conviction of Germany's political and military leaders by an international tribunal, Mr. Flick was tried by an American military court.
        It was a credit to the work of Mr. Stone and other prosecutors that even though they lacked the mountains of detailed records and other evidence that had helped convict Hermann Goering and other Government leaders in the first trials, Mr. Flick was found guilty of the main charges against him.
        Even so, the court, clearly swayed by defense evidence that he had made it a  point to treat his conscripted labor force better than he was required to do and that he had known in advance of the plot on Hitler's life and had even harbored  one of the plotters, gave him what many regarded as light punishment, a term of  seven years in prison, dating from his arrest in 1945.
        Mr. Stone, who had proved his case, after all, was not overly dismayed, according to his wife, Estelle. "He always said he regarded Flick as better than some of the others," she said.
        Mr. Flick got a further break when he received time off for good behavior and was released in 1950 after serving five years of his seven-year term. The man who had been regarded as Germany's richest citizen, with a fortune estimated at  $400 million at the end of the war, wasted little time in rebuilding it.
        He eventually made a new fortune that included a 40 percent interest in the Daimler-Benz automobile company. When he died in 1972 at the age of 89, he was believed to be the richest man in West Germany.
        Mr. Stone, who returned to the Labor Department after the trial, achieved somewhat more modest success than the man he had prosecuted. After entering private practice, specializing in labor law, he began a career as a labor arbitrator, which he continued until a few weeks before his death, and helped found the National Association of Utility Contractors.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Judith of Berkeley  Heights, N.J., and Diana of Madison, Wis.; a son, Douglas of Washington; a brother, Stamford of Mount Airy, Md., and five grandchildren.
      