
        Dominguin, a leading bullfighter in the 1940's and 50's who was a close friend of Picasso, a lover of Ava Gardner and a dueling matador featured by Ernest Hemingway in "The Dangerous Summer," died today at his home in Soto Grande, in San Roque, in Cadiz province. He was 69.
        The cause was heart failure, the state-run National Radio reported.
        Born Luis Miguel Gonzalez Lucas in Madrid, he adopted his father's bullfighting nickname, Dominguin.
        He had already achieved great renown before "The Dangerous Summer" of 1959, when he and his brother-in-law, Antonio Ordonez, fought the series of bullfights chronicled by Hemingway, a contest for popular acclaim as the world's top toreador.
        As Hemingway explained: "Bullfighting is worthless without rivalry. But with  two great bullfighters, it becomes a deadly rivalry" that can force a matador to push beyond his abilities until he is injured or killed.
        The brother-in-law won. And indeed, later in the summer, Dominguin was gored  during a routine pass.
        But in his heyday, Dominguin's fame opened other avenues of adventure.
        He carried on a highly publicized romance with Ava Gardner and was photographed with her in 1954, the same year he married an Italian actress, Lucia Bose, with whom he had three children.
        Picasso was the godfather of their youngest child, Paola, and the family regularly visited the artist at his home in France. The bullfighter's fame was credited for the fact that even though Picasso was considered an enemy of the state by the dictator Francisco Franco, Dominguin could make these visits and return to Spain without incident.
        Born on Dec. 9, 1926, Dominguin first appeared as a junior bullfighter at age 11 in Lisbon. He was rarely far from the ring for the next two decades.
        In 1941, in Bogota, Colombia, he became a full-fledged matador, permitting him to face the largest bulls, in a fight known in Spanish as the alternativa. But the test was considered invalid in Spain, where he had to repeat the process in 1942, when he was still in his mid-teens.
        At age 20, he was on the fight card on Aug. 28, 1947, in Linares, Spain, when the greatest bullfighter of the day, Manolete, was gored and died.
        Two years later, in the Madrid bullring, Dominguin thrust his right arm in the air and raised his right index finger, claiming the throne for himself as the new No. 1 bullfighter. The gesture set off sharp debate among aficionados.
        "He had a style of attracting attention like some actors on stage who captivate the audience even if they don't say a word," said Jose Carlos Arevalo, editor of 6 Toros 6, a weekly bullfighting magazine in Madrid.
        In Hemingway's words: "Luis Miguel was a charmer -- dark, tall, no hips, just a touch too long in the neck for a bullfighter, with a grave mocking face that went from professional disdain to easy laughter."
        Domiguin continued fighting regularly in Spain until the early 1950's. His career then shifted to Latin America, but he returned to the Spanish ring in the late 1950's, setting up the rivalry with Antonio Ordonez, a younger man who had  married Dominguin's sister.
        Dominguin "would consider himself a bigger draw at the gate" because of his fame, Hemingway wrote in "The Dangerous Summer," which grew out of a reporting assignment for Life magazine. But Ordonez "would consider very strongly that he  was a better matador," he added.
        Hemingway and most Spanish aficionados agreed with Ordonez, and Dominguin retired shortly thereafter.
        Hemingway wrote that he was unmoved by Dominguin's style of cape work in the  ring. But he also expressed great respect for the matador: "He was proud without being arrogant, tranquil, at ease in the ring at all times and in full control of everything that went on.
        "It was a pleasure to see him direct the fight and to watch his intelligence  at work. He had the complete and respectful concentration on his work which marks all great artists."
        Hemingway also praised Dominguin's "reflexes, his tremendous repertoire of passes and his encyclopedic knowledge of bulls."
        Unlike some bullfighters, Dominguin also regularly served as his own banderillero, the fighter who plunges sharp sticks into the bull's back before the matador steps into the ring with the red cape and sword for the final passes and the kill.
        Dominguin returned to the ring in 1971 at 44, quite old for a bullfighter. His last fight was on Sept. 12, 1973, in Barcelona.
        His first marriage ended in divorce in 1968. In 1987 he married Rosario Primo de Rivera, niece of the founder of the Spanish ultra-rightist Falange movement,  which supported Franco.
        He is survived by his wife; by his son, Miguel Bose, whose successful career  as an actor and pop singer prompted Dominguin to grumble in later years that he  was simply known as "Miguel Bose's father"; by two daughters, and by his brother, Pepe.
      