
        Louis Jay Herman, a linguist and author who followed up a career as a United  Nations translator by becoming one of the most indefatigable letter writers to The New York Times, turning out more than 100 published letters to the editor since his retirement in 1987, died on May 13 at New York Hospital. He was 71.
        His former wife, Maureen, said the cause was prostate cancer.
        Mr. Herman discovered his aptitude for languages at Friends Seminary, a Quaker high school in his native Manhattan. He later received intensive linguistic training at Cornell and was an Army interpreter in Europe in World War II; he did not seem to know how to stop acquiring languages.
        He kept on learning them during his years at New York University, while earning a master's degree at the Columbia School of Journalism, while working as an associate editor at The New Leader and even after becoming a translator at the United Nations. By the time he finished, he had mastered more than 25 languages, a feat that seemed all the more remarkable because Mr. Herman, who worked exclusively on written documents at the United Nations, generally learned to speak them so well that he got the accents as well as the vocabularies down pat.
        Mr. Herman, who was once listed in the Guinness Book of World Records for his language mastery, had little interest in the Romance languages (though he spoke  Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and French) and none in Far Eastern tongues. He was most fascinated by the Slavic languages, so much so that he produced the Dictionary of Slavic Word Families, which was published by Columbia Press in 1975.
        A well-organized, highly focused man, he generally mastered a language's grammar and basic structure in a month of intense study and filled in the vocabulary at a more leisurely pace. He took such delight in Manhattan's polyglot population, Mrs. Herman recalled, that he was forever buttonholing hyphenated New Yorkers in order to practice, or perhaps show off, his language skills.
        Mr. Herman kept his opinions pretty much to himself during his years at the United Nations, but once he retired he decided to share them with the world through the Letters columns of The Times. Last year, his carefully kept lists showed that he had had 123 letters published in The Times over the previous eight years, one-seventh of the 859 he had submitted, sometimes two a day.
        Although there were few subjects he didn't touch on, most letters reflected his main area of scholarship.
        When an article in The Times noted that words like "charisma," "pragmatist" and "demagogue" were of Greek origin, for example, Mr. Herman hastened to correct the implication that Greek imports were all "polysyllabic mouthfuls," and ascribed Greek parentage to such ordinary, everyday words as "air," "box," "cane" and "chair."
        A mere dateline, on an article from Tbilisi in Soviet Georgia in 1988, was enough to set off Mr. Herman against "some cartographic czar" who had decreed that the long-sanctioned "Tiflis" should be replaced by the "jaw-breaking" native version. What next, he wondered? "Will such traditional names as Moscow,  Prague, Naples and Cologne soon vanish to make way for indigenous Moskva, Warszawa, Praha, Napoli and Koln?"
        Mr. Herman caught so many errors in William Safire's "On Language" column in  the Sunday magazine that Mr. Safire named him the "capo di tutti capi" of the Gotcha! Gang, which Mr. Herman cherished as the ulimate accolade.
        In addition to his former wife, he is survived by his mother, Hannah, and brother, Richard, both of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Melinda Weller of Santa Fe, N.M., and a stepson, Felton Weller, of Westport, Conn.
      