
        William Dwight, who as president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association helped clear the way for American reporters to gather news in Communist China, died at the Bishop Gadsden Nursing Center in Charleston on Tuesday. He was 92.
        Mr. Dwight was born in Holyoke, Mass., where soon after his graduation from Columbia University in 1926 he began chronicling the community's news in The Holyoke Transcript, later renamed The Transcript-Telegram.
        He ultimately became chief executive of Newspapers of New England, owned by  his family. The company published The Transcript-Telegram, The Concord (N.H.) Monitor and The Valley News of Lebanon, N.H., and was co-publisher of The Recorder in Greenfield, Mass. He retired as the company's chairman in 1982.
        In the course of his long career, Mr. Dwight led a number of industry groups, serving as the president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, the chairman of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau and a director and vice chairman of The Associated Press.
        While president of the publishers' association in the 1950's, he was instrumental in persuading Secretary of State John Foster Dulles to permit American journalists to enter mainland China, which Washington had closed to all Americans after the Communists seized power there in 1949. "Arguments based on the evils of the Peiping regime," Mr. Dwight said in a widely quoted address at  the publishers' convention in 1957, "have been advanced to bolster the decision  to keep us from finding out for ourselves what is taking place over there. They should not prevail over the majestic principle of the people's right to know, a precious right inherent in our way of life."
        Mr. Dwight's wife of 64 years, Dorothy, died in 1992, and he married the former Virginia Robinson Haven two years later. She survives him, as do two sons, William Jr. and Donald; a daughter, Marily Wilson; a sister, Laura Dwight  Lewis; 14 grandchildren, and 13 great-grandchildren.
      