
        John K. Hanson, an indefatigable entrepreneur who built Winnebago Industries  into a leading mobile home manufacturer, died on Thursday at St. Mary's Hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 88 and lived in Forest City, Iowa.
        An avid camper, Mr. Hanson began what would become a lucrative association with recreational vehicles in 1957, when he became a travel-trailer dealer. A year later he and other local investors lured Modernistic Industries, a California-based travel-trailer manufacturer, to open a branch in Forest City.
        Modernistic faltered a year later, and the local owners took over. Mr. Hanson offered to manage the business and assumed its liabilities. At the time,  the company had 39 trailers, $100 in the bank and nearly $42,000 in debts.
        Over the next decade, Mr. Hanson relentlessly introduced new products, cut costs and eventually brought mass production to motor home assembly, transforming the company and building his own fortunes.
        In 1960 he renamed the company Winnebago, the name given to the river that flows through Forest City by the Winnebago Indians.
        Winnebago grew rapidly throughout the 1960's, and Mr. Hanson took the company public in 1970. Over the course of the next year, the company's stock price rose to more than four times its value. 0.
        Suffering from cataracts, in 1972, Mr. Hanson decided to retire, sold off a large piece of his stock and turned management of the company over to his son, and then to his son-in-law.
        But within seven years, the business was foundering, damaged in no small part by skyrocketing gasoline prices. In 1979, after watching from the sidelines and  undergoing eye surgery to restore his sight, Mr. Hanson felt compelled to return.
        "I watched for seven years as the business went down, down, down," he told an interviewer in 1984. "I came back to build it up, up, up."
        He eventually returned the company to profitability, but was forced to cut staff and sell assets to achieve that end.
        "I came in like Wyatt Earp," he said later. "I just lined 'em up and shot 'em down."
        Winnebago went through another financial crisis in the late 1980's, and Mr. Hanson, who by that time had relinquished day-to-day control of the company to others, responded by dismissing four chief executives in two years.
        "He was very much a hands-on chairman, and an integral part of the operations of the company throughout its history," said Robert J. Evans, a securities analyst who follows Winnebago for John G. Kinnard & Company in Minneapolis. "He  was very heavily involved in its strategic direction right up until he died."
        Mr. Hanson, who kept a 47 percent stake in Winnebago, also owned 20 percent of Cycle-Sat Inc., a Winnebago subsidiary that distributes radio and television  advertising via satellite.
        In the late 1980's, Mr. Hanson's critics called Cycle-Sat a distraction that  Winnebago could ill afford. Later this year, Cycle-Sat's shares are expected to  be offered to the public for the first time.
        Even as he made millions of dollars from Winnebago, Mr. Hanson gave much back to the local community through contributions from the Hanson Foundation and the  Winnebago Industries Foundation.
        A native of Thor, Iowa, Mr. Hanson graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1934 with a bachelor's degree in mortuary science. He ran his father's funeral home for several years and also assumed responsibility for the family furniture and appliance store for a time.
        Before venturing into the mobile home business, He also founded a bank and in 1948 became a partner in an International Harvester and Oldsmobile dealership.
        Mr. Hanson is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Louise Voss; two sons, John V. Hanson of Jensen Beach, Fla., and Paul Hanson of Clear Lake, Fla.; a daughter, Mary Jo Bowman of Palm City, Fla.; three sisters, Mildred Sager of Story City, Iowa, Dorothy J. Nelson of Minneapolis and Barbara Bulman of Forest  City, Iowa; three grandchildren, and three great-granchildren.
      