
        Sidney A. Swensrud, a former president and chairman of the Gulf Oil Corporation, who led the company on a major expansion in the United States and overseas, died on Wednesday. He was 95 and lived in Naples, Fla.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer.
        Mr. Swensrud got his start in the oil business after he graduated from Harvard Business School in 1927. He went to work as an assistant to W.T. Holliday, the president of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio.
        He made his mark by riding on the tank trucks of the company as they delivered gasoline, asking questions about why everything was done the way it was and then writing the answers in a notebook.
        Thus, he had first-hand knowledge of how things worked, giving him an advantage over the executives who relied on reports of subordinates.
        Mr. Swensrud was on his way to becoming head of Standard Oil of Ohio when Gulf hired him as an executive vice president and director in 1947.
        He was named president a year later and became chairman in 1953 of Gulf, which had been built into a huge oil empire, including major holdings in Venezuela and Kuwait, by the Pittsburgh financier William L. Mellon.
        Under Mr. Swensrud, Gulf went on a major exploration binge, drilling in Canada and in such states as Mississippi.
        He also vastly added to Gulf's refining capacity, expanding the company's huge refinery in Port Arthur, Tex., and building a new refinery in Philadelphia  in the 1950's.
        Mr. Swensrud retired in 1958. Gulf was acquired by the Chevron Corporation in 1984 in what was then the largest corporate takeover in American history.
        Mr. Swensrud, born in Northwood, Iowa, in 1900, got his early education in a  one-room schoolhouse and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1923. He  married the former Isabelle Miller in 1937.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his daughter, Lois Reid of Naples, and a son, Stephen B. Swensrud, of South Hampton, N.H. He is also survived by 5  grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      