
        The Rev. Kenneth G. Neigh, a national Presbyterian Church official who put the church in the forefront of the civil rights movement and broadened its commitment to social causes during the 1960's, died on Monday at his home at the church's Meadow Lakes retirement home in Hightstown, N.J. He would have been 88  yesterday.
        For a man who was less than five and a half feet tall and had an uncommonly soft voice, Mr. Neigh (pronounced NYE) wielded a lot of influence from his office on Riverside Drive, then the headquarters of the United Presbyterian Church in the United States, the so-called Northern church that later reunited with the breakaway Southern church to form the Presbyterian Church (USA).
        That was partly because of his charm, his sense of humor and his air of command, but also because as general secretary of the church's Board of National Missions from 1959 to 1972 he dispensed millions of dollars a year collected from individual congregations.
        But it was the way he dispensed the funds that led the magazine Christian Century to describe Mr. Neigh as "the architect of the modern missions movement," a reference to his role in leading American churches into areas that  had long been regarded as beyond their primary responsibility of caring for members' souls and providing relief to the poor.
        Under Mr. Neigh's leadership, for example, Presbyterian funds were used to rescue five bankrupt United Mine Workers medical centers in Appalachia, to create the Head Start program in Mississippi and to provide legal assistance to  civil rights advocates pressing for social change across the country.
        Although he had official power only within his own church, Mr. Neigh's pioneering approach was credited with influencing similar efforts in other churches, especially after his friend and admirer, Eugene Carson Blake, the Presbyterian Church's top ecclesiastical official, carried Mr. Neigh's vision with him when he became head of the National Council of Churches and later of the World Council of Churches.
        In time, Mr. Neigh's social activism produced something of a backlash, especially after it was learned that a legal defense fund he had established had been used, unknown to him, to help defend Angela Davis, the avowed Communist who was acquitted of charges that she participated in an incident in which a judge was shot to death in his Marin County, Calif., courtroom.
        But the backlash, which led individual churches to demand a greater say in how their donated dollars were spent, also accelerated a trend Mr. Neigh had initiated and championed throughout his career.
        Mr. Neigh had been named general secretary in 1959 precisely because of his beliefs that the national office had micromanaged local projects (national officials in New York routinely authorized purchases of toilet paper for San Francisco missions) and that individual congregations should accept more responsibility in supporting marginal churches and charitable programs in their  areas.
        For all his later prominence in church affairs, Mr. Neigh, who was born in Salem, Ohio, and grew up in Lisbon, Ohio, where his father ran a lumberyard, did not have much of a religious upbringing. As his daughter, Judith Schultheiss, noted, her father, who attended Ohio Wesleyan and received his divinity degree from the McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago in 1936, baptized his own father.
        As a young minister, Mr. Neigh was involved in mission work from the beginning, initially as a recipient of national funds, as the founding pastor of a mission church in the working-class Detroit suburb of Allen Park, where he demonstrated his talents for innovative administration by organizing a regional  coordinating council of social agencies.
        His ideas seemed so compelling to postwar church officials that after leaving Allen Park in 1946 he never had a church again. Instead, he became vice president and acting president of McCormick and later merged the Detroit and Michigan synods, becoming executive of both before being summoned to the national office in 1959.
        Mr. Neigh's wife, Jane, his high school sweetheart, died in 1992, and his son, Kenneth, was killed in an automobile accident several years ago. His daughter, of Franklin, Mich., is his only known survivor.
      