
        Charles L. Kades, a lawyer who supervised the drafting of Japan's postwar Constitution, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Greenfield, Mass. He was 90 and had lived in Heath, Mass., since his retirement from law practice in New York in 1976.
        In a long and varied career, Mr. Kades, a native of Newburgh, N.Y., who graduated from Cornell and received his law degree from Harvard, tackled many complex problems.
        As a Government lawyer in Washington during the New Deal in the 1930's he worked as a counsel for the Public Works Administration, the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. In private practice in New York in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, he specialized in tax, bond, banking, corporate and estate matters; became a senior partner of the firm of Hawkins, Delafield and Wood, and advised  Gov. Hugh L. Carey on the creation and operation of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, the agency that supervised New York City's recovery from financial  crisis.
        Yet none of the cases he worked on and none of the deals he made had the impact of one whirlwind, a 10-day effort in February 1946 when Mr. Kades supervised the transformation of Japan from a monarchy into a modern democracy with full guarantees of equality.
        Under pressure from the occupying Allies, the Japanese Government had begun the process of revising the Meiji Constitution of 1881 late in 1945, but when details of the drafting committee's work leaked out on Feb. 1, 1946, and were seen to be no more than a light reworking of the old Constitution, there was an  immediate outcry.
        Although an American directive allowed him to order reforms "only as a last resort," with the first postwar general election just two months away and with an 11-nation commission due to take over the issue of a constitution, Gen. Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Allied Commander, intervened.
        He ordered his own 24-member Government Section staff to draft a constitution, and on Feb. 4, his aide, Brig. Gen. Courtney Whitney, convened a meeting and declared: "Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic occasion. I now  proclaim you a constitutional assembly."
        Lieut. Col. Charles Kades, who had been in Japan since a week before Japan's  formal surrender the previous summer after taking part in the invasion of France in 1944 and serving on the War Department's General Staff, was put in charge of  the steering committee and told to produce a constitution by Feb. 12.
        Colonel Kades, a gentle leader who resolved a myriad of debates, worked night and day to accomplish his mission.
        The resulting document effectively stripped the Emperor of authority, established an elected government and guaranteed a range of civil rights, including full equality for women.
        On March 4, Colonel Kades presided over the negotiations with Japanese authorities that led to the adoption of the American draft, including the famous renunciation of war that Colonel Kades had composed himself from General MacArthur's notes.
        The Constitution took effect on May 3, 1947, and proved so popular and so effective in laying the groundwork for Japan's postwar re-emergence as an economic power that Mr. Kades, who was decorated by the Army for his work, also  became a lionized figure in Japan.
        Mr. Kades is survived by his third wife, Phyllis; a daughter from a previous  marriage, Caroline Foster-Bunch of Avalon, Australia; three stepchilren, Jewelle Bickford and William C. Wooten, both of New York, and James H. Wooten of Orlando, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.
      