
        A. Phillip Goldsmith, a fixture in the garment industry for decades and a donor to Jewish institutions, died yesterday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Goldsmith, born in London, immigrated to the United States in 1922.
        After having studied architecture and starting a career as a banker, a friend induced Mr. Goldsmith to join his family's hosiery business. After several years, Mr. Goldsmith left to establish his own textile business.
        In later years, he acquired textile mills, including the Diamond Mills of High Point, N.C., which became a major supplier to the Fruit of the Loom Company. In the late 1940's, a company that Mr. Goldsmith headed, the Diamond Hosiery Corporation, was licensed by Fruit of the Loom to design and manufacture its first line of nylon hosiery for women.
        In 1954, Julius Kayser & Company, a leading manufacturer of women's apparel,  acquired Diamond. Mr. Goldsmith became a major shareholder in Kayser and from late 1954 until August 1957 was its president. After his resignation as president at Kayser, Mr. Goldsmith was named president of the Bates Manufacturing Company, a textile manufacturer in Lewiston, Me. He resigned from  that post in August 1964.
        At Bates, Mr. Goldsmith led an unsuccessful proxy fight for control of the Elgin National Watch Company. Mr. Goldsmith was a director and the chairman of the Elgin executive committee. He subsequently resigned both posts.
        His philanthropic interests included Yeshiva University, where he was a trustee, and its Albert Einstein School of Medicine. For nearly 20 years, he was chairman of the Ramaz School on East 78th Street in Manhattan.
        Surviving are his wife, Frieda, of Manhattan and Palm Beach; two daughters from a previous marriage to Sara Goldsmith, Ellyn Radel of Manhattan and Lynda Strulovic of Caracas, Venezuela; two sisters, Stella Greenberg of Lynbrook, L.I., and Helen Malina of Elizabeth, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      