
        Joseph R. Shapiro, a prominent art collector and philanthropist who was the founding president of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago and an active trustee at the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Sunday at a hospital in Oak Park, Ill. He was 91 and lived in River Forest, Ill.
        Mr. Shapiro, who made a fortune as a developer, was considered the dean of a  group of idiosyncratic and dedicated Chicago art collectors whose holdings, often unusually strong in Surrealist art, rivaled New York's in quality and focus.
        But he was also an indefatigable proselytizer of the importance and benefits of art. For more than 50 years, he repeatedly organized, served on juries for or lent artworks to exhibitions at nearly every art institution, major and minor, in and around Chicago. He also lectured frequently on art and art collecting and gave many interviews. And he and his wife, Jory, were legendary for being perpetually willing to lead visitors through their Tudor-style home in Oak Park, talking about the works in their vast collection.
        Mr. Shapiro was especially identified with the Museum of Contemporary Art, which he and several other Chicago collectors, including Robert Mayer and Edwin  Bergman, founded in 1966, partly because of dissatisfaction with the Art Institute of Chicago's involvement with contemporary art.
        Mr. Shapiro served as president of the museum's board for its first eight years and recently donated $1.5 million to its new building, on East Chicago Avenue, which will open to the public on July 2. Selections from the Shapiro collection were exhibited at the museum in 1969. He gave a total of 65 works to  the collection, including Matta's "Prime Ordeal" of 1946 and Magritte's "Wonders of Nature" of 1953.
        He was equally involved with the Art Institute, which he visited as a child and credited with inspiring his love of art. He donated the first of what would  eventually be 600 drawings and prints to the institute in 1955, became a trustee in 1974 and was elected a lifetime trustee in 1981. The Art Institute mounted exhibitions of his gifts in 1985 and 1993.
        Joseph Randall Shapiro was born in Russia in 1904 and immigrated to Chicago with his family when he was 2 years old. He attended the University of Chicago in the early 1930's, having earned his law degree from De Paul University in 1927.
        He and his wife began collecting color reproductions of paintings in the late 1930's, papering their house with pictures cut from magazines. Even these were exhibited, at an immensely popular show at the Chicago Public Library in 1943. The Shapiros made their first art purchase -- four works by Francis Chapin, a Chicago painter -- in 1942 and by the 1950's were well on their way to amassing  a large international collection. Known for its superb Surrealist material, it included major works by Chagall, Ernst, Klee, Magritte, Miro and Tanguy, as well as extensive groups of prints and drawings by Toulouse-Lautrec and Rouault. The  Shapiros also donated works to the Spertus Museum of Judaica and Rosary College  in Chicago and the University of Notre Dame.
        Mr. Shapiro's wife died in 1993. He is survived by his son, Donn, of Chicago.
      