
        Joseph Green, who turned a walk-on role in the first talking movie, "The Jazz Singer," into a film making career that ushered in the golden age of Yiddish cinema, died on Thursday at the Grace Plaza nursing home in Great Neck, L.I. He  was 96 and had emphysema.
        Working at a feverish pace under the shadow of Nazism, Mr. Green in three years in Poland was the producer and co-director of four features that carried Yiddish film to popular and artistic heights on both sides of the Atlantic. They survive as a celluloid testament to life in the shtetl on the eve of the Holocaust.
        Mr. Green, who was born in Poland and moved to the United States with a Yiddish acting company in 1924, did not invent the Yiddish cinema, which goes back to 1911. Rather, film historians say, he cut through the schmaltz and stereotypes of early films to create polished, professional productions with general appeal.
        His films were noteworthy for the purity of the Yiddish and the quality of the acting, wrote Eric A. Goldman in "Visions, Images and Dreams: Yiddish Film Past and Present." His film scores were also memorable, evolving into folk music played at Jewish weddings, said Jim Hoberman, author of "Bridge of Light: Yiddish Film Between Two Worlds."
        "He was a forceful personality," said Mr. Hoberman, a Village Voice critic. "He was certainly not shy and had a great sense of his own importance."
        The first of his films, "Yidl Mitn Fidl" ("Yiddle With a Fiddle"), a musical  comedy made in seven weeks in 1935 for what was then the considerable sum of about $60,000 and starring Molly Picon, told the mischievous story of a young woman who poses as a man in a troupe of wandering klezmer musicians in Poland. Hailed as the first international Yiddish hit, it drew large crowds to the Ambassador Theater on Broadway and was even shown to Jewish audiences in Berlin  in 1938. "Yidl" and Mr. Green's other films have been put on videocasette.
        He followed with "Der Purimspiler" ("The Jester") in 1937, and two films in 1938, "Mamele" ("Little Mother"), also with Picon, and "A Brievele der Mamen" ("A Little Letter to Mother").
        "We made three films, one right after the other," he told Roberta Elliott for an article in Jewish Week in 1985. "For nearly 12 months we didn't leave the studio -- time was running out. We had to get onto film as much as possible of that charming and creative life in Poland."
        Mr. Green was born Joseph Greenberg in Lodz, Poland, on April 23, 1900, the nursing home said. According to the National Center for Jewish Film, an archive  at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., he studied drama in German-occupied Warsaw during World War I, then moved to Berlin, where he joined an offshoot of the celebrated Vilna Troupe, a Yiddish acting company that brought him to the United States.
        In 1927, he traveled to Hollywood with the father-and-son acting team of Rudolph and Joseph Schildkraut and landed a bit part in "The Jazz Singer" with Al Jolson. The experience left him yearning to do more and opened the door to his hiring in 1932 to dub Yiddish dialogue into a silent Italian feature, "Joseph in the Land of Egypt." The film was a hit in Poland and earned him enough to finance his own film making career.
        He had signed up Picon for her first starring screen role but still lacked an idea and was nearing despair when a Polish director handed him a script called "The Wandering Musicians."
        "There was only one drawback," Mr. Green recalled later. "The four musicians  were all men. There was no part for Molly." Then the idea hit: she would be a girl disguised as a boy.
        But he still had no title. At 4 o'clock one morning, he recounted, he awoke,  scribbled something down and went back to sleep. Later that morning he looked at what he had written and found his title, "Yidl," roughly a Jewish lass. "I got a standing ovation from the staff and crew," he said.
        The film recouped production costs on its Warsaw run alone and went on to big grosses in New York, booked into movie houses not only on Broadway but also in Brooklyn and the Bronx. The Loew's chain picked it up as its first Yiddish talkie. Mr. Green's next three films were hits as well. He passed up a chance to make a film about Sholem Aleichem's milkman Tevye, fearing that the subject of intermarriage was too anticlerical for Roman Catholic Poland. It was made in 1939 with Maurice Schwartz as Tevye and became a hit. But then, as Mr. Green had feared, time ran out and he returned to New York.
        During World War II, he briefly returned to the stage, leasing the Yiddish Art Theater on Second Avenue to produce two plays, "The Miracle of the Warsaw Ghetto" by H. Lalvick and "We Will Live" by David Bergelson. He became a film distributor, releasing "Yidl" in an English version. Made into a play, "Yidl" had a stage run at Town Hall in 1990 and also went on the road. For many years after the war he lived with his wife, Annette, on Gramercy Park. She died in 1982 and he moved to assisted housing soon afterward.
        "When people ask me why I didn't keep making pictures," he told Jewish Week,  "I have only one answer: six million potential moviegoers were missing and they were the most important audiences for Yiddish films."
        There are no survivors. Three sisters died in German concentration camps.
      