
        Peter Adair, a documentary film maker who used the eloquent voices of ordinary people to chart the progress first of gay liberation and then of the AIDS epidemic, died on Thursday at his home in San Francisco. He was 53.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said Rob Epstein, a friend who was the co-director of Mr. Adair's best-known work, "Word Is Out" (1978).
        Mr. Adair grew up in New Mexico, where his father, John, an anthropologist,  studied the Navajo people. He began making films when his parents gave him a movie camera as a high school graduation present.
        "Being in the minority, and sometimes the only white kid around, started me looking at everything from the eyes of an outsider," Mr. Adair said. "So in a sense, all my films, even if they are about my peers, are cultural studies." (In a curriculum vitae, he listed his hobby as eavesdropping.)
        Toward the end of his academic career at Antioch College in 1967, Mr. Adair completed his first major documentary, "Holy Ghost People," about a fundamentalist Christian sect in Appalachia. After several unhappy years working for others, he struck out on his own.
        "My movies have always been a way of exploring subjects of personal interest," Mr. Adair said. "When I wondered about religion, I made a film about  it. When I realized I was gay, I made a film about it."
        That film, "Word Is Out," took 5 years, 200 interviews and 6 co-directors to  make. Mr. Adair shared directing credit with the other members of the Mariposa Film Group: his sister, Nancy; Andrew Brown; Mr. Epstein; Lucy Massie Phenix, and Veronica Selver. Mr. Adair also produced the film.
        "Word Is Out" was deceptively simple, with 26 people telling their stories to the camera, among them a lesbian who had served in the Women's Army Corp in World War II, an assembly-line worker who recalled gay saloon life in the 1950's.
        Understated though it was, "Word Is Out" had a remarkable impact, coming at a time when images of homosexuals as everyday people, as opposed to psychopaths or eccentrics, were rare. "The silence of gay people on the screen has been broken," Vito Russo declared in The Advocate, a national gay newspaper.
        Janet Cole, who worked on the movie, said thousands of letters arrived in response to it. "People who were alone and hopeless in Idaho, Utah and Kansas for the first time saw realistic and positive images of gay people on screen," she said.
        In 1984, Mr. Adair directed "Stopping History" for the Public Broadcasting Service, which examined ethical questions around nuclear weapons. Two years later, he and Mr. Epstein directed and produced "The AIDS Show: Artists Involved With Death and Survival," which followed members of a theater group in San Francisco as they developed pieces about the epidemic. It was broadcast in November 1986.
        His last film, "Absolutely Positive," told how 11 men and women, Mr. Adair included, learned that they were H.I.V. positive and how they adjusted their lives to the disease.
        "The nice thing about having a serious disease is that it's O.K. to say anything you want, and people put up with it," Mr. Adair said in the film. "I don't know if it's because they feel sorry for you, or because they think, since you're facing death, you're somehow wiser. Both attitudes should be encouraged,  however."
        Last year, Mr. Adair and Haney Armstrong completed "In the First Degree," an  interactive CD-ROM featuring live actors. It was published by Broderbund Software.
        Mr. Adair is survived by his life partner, Rudy Norton; his father, of San Francisco, and two sisters, Margo, of San Francisco, and Nancy, of Albion, Calif. His mother, Carolyn, who was co-editor of the book version of "Word Is Out," died in March.
      