
        Irving P. Krick, one of the first commercial meteorologists in the United States and a member of the team that provided forecasts for the D-Day invasion,  died on June 20 at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 89.
        The cause was heart failure, said officials of Strategic Weather Services, a  private forecasting company in Wayne, Pa., where Dr. Krick was chairman emeritus.
        To business executives, farmers and governments beginning in the 1930's, Dr. Krick offered, for a fee, the last word on the weather. To others he offered the weather itself, chemically seeding clouds using ground-based smoke generators in efforts to produce rain in drought-stricken areas.
        He battled the American meteorological establishment, who thought his rainmaking techniques of questionable value and his methods of long-range forecasting to be more showmanship than science. But Dr. Krick found, in a sense, a silver lining inside every cloud.
        "He took his forecasting techniques and offered them to the Weather Bureau,"  said Gordon Barnes, a former New York television and radio meteorologist who learned many of Dr. Krick's methods in the 1960's. They were not interested, so  Dr. Krick went into business "and made a lot of money," Mr. Barnes said.
        Dr. Krick advised Presidents-elect on whether they would need to bundle up on Inauguration Day and told movie producers when conditions would be best for exterior shooting. He forecast calm weather for the burning of Atlanta on a Hollywood backlot for "Gone With the Wind."
        He developed many of his techniques at the California Institute of Technology, where he received master's and doctoral degrees in the 1930's and was head of the meteorology department in the 1940's.
        It was while at Caltech that his work came to the attention of General H. H.  (Hap) Arnold, commanding general of the Army Air Forces. He joined the service in 1942 and commanded a unit that provided forecasts for daylight bombing runs over Germany. In May 1944, he was one of six members of an Allied team of meteorologists to determine the best date for the invasion of France.
        Although there are some doubts about the extent of his role in settling on June 6, Dr. Krick always insisted, with characteristic enthusiasm that some critics said crossed over into embellishment, that it was his forecast that prevailed over that of a British member of the team who had predicted bad weather for the date, using short-range techniques.
        Dr. Krick was born in San Francisco in 1906. As a youth he was an accomplished pianist, and by performing helped pay his way through the University of California at Berkeley, where he received a bachelor's degree in physics in 1928.
        After college he held a variety of jobs including radio station assistant manager and stockbroker. It was while working for an airline, Western Air Express, around 1930 that he developed an interest in weather and decided to pursue studies at Caltech.
        After receiving his doctorate in 1934, he stayed on as an instructor, helping to establish the meteorology department. When Caltech eliminated the department  in 1948, Dr. Krick formed his own firm, taking most of the department staff with him. "He even bought the meteorology library," said Frederic Fox, the president  of Strategic Weather Services, which purchased Dr. Krick's firm in 1990.
        Dr. Krick believed that weather patterns repeated themselves, and that by studying historical data and applying the information to current conditions, accurate forecasts for weeks, months or even longer could be obtained.
        "Irving never really believed in the chaos theory," which regards weather as  unpredictable because it never recurs in exactly the same way, Mr. Fox said.
        Instead, he said, Dr. Krick believed in the notion that the universe -- and thus the atmosphere -- has order. Or, as Dr. Krick put it himself in a 1962 profile in The Saturday Evening Post, "You might say I've staked my career on a  logical Supreme Being."
        But in the community of weather forecasters, predictions beyond about five days are considered shaky at best. The NBC weather personality Willard Scott once described long-range forecasts as "about as valid as the warranty on a used camel."
        Loren Crow, of Denver, who studied under Dr. Krick at Caltech and later worked for him, said: "He tried to do things that no one else claims you can do. His idea was you go out there and do it and prove it with the people that count  -- the people that use it."
        Dr. Krick is survived by his wife, Marie; a daughter, Marilyn Lunde, of Palo  Alto, Calif., and a son, Irving P. 2d, of Battle Creek, Mich.
        Correction:  July 1, 1996, Monday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Irving P. Krick, a commercial weather forecaster, misattributed a comment about Dr. Krick's response to criticism of his work in some editions. It was Frederic Fox, president of Strategic Weather Services, who said: "He tried to do things that no one else claims you can do. His idea was you go out there and do it and prove it with the people that count -- the people that use it." The remark was not made by Loren Crow, a former colleague of Dr. Krick.
      