
        The Rev. David Allan Hubbard, an Old Testament scholar who retired in 1993 after 30 years as president of the Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., died on June 7 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his family and the seminary, a leading evangelical school founded in 1947.
        Dr. Hubbard became president of the Fuller Seminary in 1963 at the age of 35. Its growth under his stewardship led the institution to call itself the world's largest multidenominational seminary. It is an important center for mainstream -- that is, ecumenical, as distinct from fundamentalist -- evangelical thought.
        He expanded the institution, adding a School of Psychology and a School of World Mission, both of which opened in 1965.
        The psychology department he founded became the first one not affiliated with a university to be accredited by the American Psychological Association. The mission school became a model for seminaries elsewhere in the United States and  abroad.
        His successor to the presidency, Richard J. Mouw, said Dr. Hubbard had lifted evangelical theological scholarship to a new level in the larger context of higher education. "His influence in theological education was obvious," he said. "But he also played a role in bringing together previously separate segments of the evangelical community in new coalitions."
        While Dr. Hubbard was leading the seminary, he kept up his work as an Old Testament scholar and interpreter. He was the author of four commentaries on the Old Testament and 36 books, among them "Psalms for All Seasons" (Eerdmans, 1971), "More Psalms for All Seasons" (Eerdmans, 1976) and "The Practice of Prayer" (InterVarsity Press Verlag, 1982). At his death, he was a general editor of the Word Biblical Commentary Series.
        Dr. Hubbard was born in Stockton, Calif., and graduated from Westmont College in Santa Barbara and the Fuller Seminary, where he also earned a master's degree in theology in 1954. He received a doctorate from St. Andrews University in Scotland in 1957. He was an ordained minister of the American Baptist Churches of the U.S.A.
        He started teaching the Bible and Greek at Westmont College in 1957 and soon  rose to become chairman of biblical studies and philosophy. He joined the Fuller Seminary in 1963 as president and chancellor and a professor of the Old Testament.
        Dr. Hubbard is survived by his wife of 46 years, Ruth Doyal Hubbard; a daughter, Mary Given of Santa Barbara; two brothers, John, of Arroyo Grande, Calif., and Robert, of Glendale, Calif.; a sister, Laura Smith of San Leandro, Calif., and two grandsons.
      