
        Charles Fayette Taylor, an engineer who was one of the last living links to the Wright brothers era of aviation and helped to design the engine for the plane that carried Charles A. Lindbergh across the Atlantic, died on June 22 at  his home in Weston, Mass. He was 101.
        Mr. Taylor was on the faculty at Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1926 until his retirement in 1960. His two-volume text, "The Internal Combustion Engine in Theory and Practice," written several decades ago, remains a primary reference for automotive engineers, M.I.T. said in announcing his death.
        In the early 1920's, just after graduating from Yale University with a degree in mechanical engineering and while in charge of the Army's Air Service Laboratory in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Taylor was introduced to Orville Wright.
        Soon he was working for the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, where he was in  charge of airplane-engine design and development from 1923 to 1926. He was on the team that designed the air-cooled Whirlwind engine for The Spirit of St. Louis, the craft built by Ryan Airlines of San Diego for Lindbergh's New-York-to-Paris flight in 1927.
        Knowing full well that his life depended on the engine (and his ability to stay awake for the 33 and a half hours of the flight), Lindbergh fussed over its assembly. According to one account, a mechanic accidentally cracked a cooling fin. Not content to have the single fin replaced, Lindbergh wanted a whole new section of engine.
        "Why?" the mechanic asked.
        "Because I don't swim so well," Lindbergh replied.
        On the trip east before the trans-Atlantic flight, the engine coughed a bit over the Rocky Mountains. More ominously, it was running 1.5 percent below full  power on the wet, chilly morning of May 20, 1927, as Lindbergh revved it on a Long Island airfield, mulling whether to take off for Paris.
        One last check showed everything in order. Mechanics figured the engine was being momentarily slowed by the elements.
        The plane took off and the engine worked just fine, even through 1,000 miles  of snow and sleet over the ocean.
        As a boy in New York City and in Montclair, N.J., where his family moved when he was 11, Charles Taylor was fascinated by airplanes. His drawings were like blueprints, his mother recalled years later.
        In 1912, he entered Yale, receiving a bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1915. In World War I, he was an inspector of aircraft material for the Signal Corps for three months before being put in charge of the Navy's Aeronautical Engine Laboratory in Washington. He returned to Yale after the war and received  an engineering degree in 1920.
        Mr. Taylor joined M.I.T. as an associate professor of aeronautical engineering in 1926. Three years later, he was a full professor and head of aeronautical engineering. In 1933, he was named professor of mechanical engineering and director of the new Sloan Laboratory for Aircraft and Automotive Engines, a post he held until his retirement in 1960.
        In 1988, Mr. Taylor and his wife, Alice, were honored for creating the Educational Counseling Committee of Boston in the late 1940's and helping more than 2,000 black children attend college.
        Just before his 100th birthday, on Sept. 24, 1994, he was asked what it meant to live a century. "I saw Halley's Comet twice," he replied. He had, in 1910 and 1986.
        Surviving are his wife, who is 98; a son, Philip, of San Carlos, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren. Another son, Charles Jr., died  three years ago.
      