
        Dr. Clarence (Buddy) Combs, the galloping New Jersey veterinarian who rode his way into the United States Polo Hall of Fame, died last Sunday at his home in Colt's Neck, N.J. He was 81.
        He wife, Dr. Margaret Combs, said the cause was complications from a series of strokes over the last decade.
        In a sport long associated with the leisured scions of old-money families from Old Westbury, L.I., Dr. Combs was something of an anomaly, a working professional who managed to play at the highest levels of the game while maintaining a full-time veterinary practice in Shrewsbury, N.J.
        Born a few years too late to have excelled in the golden age of polo in the 1920's and 1930's, Dr. Combs, who learned polo at his father's riding academy in Deal, N.J., nevertheless got in his licks.
        In what became a family legend, he and his father were watching a game in Pennsylvania one day in 1924 when a player was injured and had to leave the game. There was no substitute available, at least until a player who had seen him ride and had marveled at his horsemanship spotted the 10-year-old on the sideline and recruited him on the spot.
        A decade later, as a 19-year-old student at the Pennsylvania Military College, Dr. Combs achieved a six-goal rating in indoor polo, marking him as one of the better players in a game whose individual ratings run from no goals to 10. Two months later, on the way to the national indoor title, he led the New York Athletic Club to victory in the eastern championships over a team headed by the legendary Winston Guest, indoor polo's first and only 10-goal player until Dr. Combs became the second in 1951.
        By the time he led Cornell to the intercollegiate championship as a veterinary student in 1937, Dr. Combs was recognized as one of polo's true stars.
        Partly because of the demands of his practice, which he opened with his wife  and fellow Cornell graduate in 1940, Dr. Combs concentrated on indoor polo, a game he regarded as more demanding than the outdoor game and decidedly rougher,  a point he once helped establish at the Squadron A Armory in New York when he and a rival player, who didn't realize Dr. Combs had the right of way, rode full tilt into each other, knocking the rival pony out cold and leaving Dr. Combs's mount stunned but still standing.
        Another reason he specialized in the indoor game was the virtual disappearance of outdoor polo from the New Jersey horse country in the 1940's. Before World War II, his wife recalled yesterday, there had been 20 polo fields  in Monmouth County. Afterward there were none.
        Even so, Dr. Combs played with a number of teams on Long Island and eventually in Florida, as Palm Beach gradually became the center of the sport in the United States.
        He was never more than an eight-goal player in the outdoor game, but whether  indoors or out, few athletes in polo were his equal. A powerfully built man who  regularly knocked in half a dozen or more goals a game and was routinely described as a one-man team, Dr. Combs, who also kept up a constant stream of chatter during a game, found himself speechless only once.
        That came in a famous game against Argentina when Dr. Combs hit the willow ball so hard that the head of his mallet flew off, leaving him with a useless switch as what should have been the game-winning American goal dribbled slowly downfield. Without missing a beat, Dr. Comb reversed his grip and galloped ahead, whacking the ball with the mallet's thick handle and sending the ball straight for the goal, alas, not fast enough to prevent an Argentine defender from intercepting it and setting up the winning goal.
        Throughout most of his career Dr. Combs never had mounts to match his own riding and playing skills. In a sport in which players change ponies half a dozen times or more in the course of a six chukker game and may maintain a dozen in their stables, Dr. Combs simply could not afford to buy the top western-bred quarter horses, which fetched $20,000 or more during the 1940's.
        Toward the end, however, his mounts improved, thanks to his wife's revolutionary realization that thoroughbreds not quite fast enough for the track could make ideal polo ponies.
        His own skills had begun to wane by then, but when he finally sold his string in the 1960's, his wife said, "he was the best-mounted player in the country."
        Dr. Combs is also survived by two sons, Brien of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Craig of Morristown, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      