
        James Stacy Coles, a former president of Bowdoin College who went on to lead  the Research Corporation, a private foundation for the advancement of science and technology, died on Thursday at the J. M. L. Care Center in Falmouth, Mass.  He was 83 and lived in Quissett, Mass., and in Manhattan.
        Dr. Coles, a chemist and oceanographer, was a fellow of the American Academy  of Arts and Sciences and a former trustee of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Falmouth. He led the Research Corporation, based in Tucson, Ariz., from 1968 to 1982.
        During his tenure at the foundation, its assets increased to $46 million from $11 million, in part through patent royalties. He oversaw projects for nutrition research and medical mycology, the branch of botany that deals with fungi.
        Dr. Coles became the ninth president of Bowdoin, in Brunswick, Me., in 1952.  In the next 15 years, the college revised its curriculum to accommodate programs for gifted students, added independent studies and bolstered a program to help low-income students.
        James Stacy Coles was born in Mansfield, Pa., and graduated from Columbia College in 1936. He received a master's degree from Columbia in 1939 and a doctorate in physical chemistry from Columbia in 1941.
        After teaching briefly at Middlebury College in Vermont, he joined the Underwater Explosives Research Laboratory at Woods Hole in World War II, and was awarded the President's Certificate of Merit for his work in antisubmarine warfare.
        From 1946 until 1952, when he became president of Bowdoin, he was associated  with Brown University in Providence, R.I.
        He is survived by his wife, Cecily Cannan Selby Coles, and a daughter and two sons from a previous marriage, to Martha L. Reed -- Anne S. Coles of Brookline,  Mass., James R., of Harpswell, Me., and Christopher, of Santa Monica, Calif. Dr. Coles is also survived by three stepchildren; a sister, Margaret C. Bol of Princeton, N.J., and two granddaughters.
      