
        Gen. James Karrick Woolnough, an Army combat officer of the Battle of the Bulge and the Korean War who went on to command the First Cavalry Division as well as the Army's Vietnam-era central training command in Virginia, died on May 30 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 85 and lived in Arlington, Va.
        General Woolnough reached four-star rank when President Lyndon B. Johnson named him to lead the Continental Army Command in Fort Monroe, Va., in 1967. It  put him in charge of all the Army's 16 training bases and 26 occupational schools around the country while the war in Vietnam was nearing an end.
        General Woolnough was born into a military family posted to the island of Mindanao, the Philippines. He graduated from West Point in 1932 and was teaching mathematics there when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor.
        He reached the First Infantry Division as a regimental executive officer shortly after the invasion of Normandy. He took charge of a regiment of the 99th Division in time for the Battle of the Bulge in February 1945 and led his troops across the Rhine into Germany.
        He was assigned to Task Force Seven at the first A-bomb tests at Eniwetok atoll in the Pacific and, several assignments later, transferred to the First Cavalry for the early stages of the Korean War. He graduated from National War College in 1952 and held several positions on the general staff in Washington and as a troop commander in Europe, rising to the rank of general.  He returned  to Korea to assume command of the First Cavalry in 1961.
        In 1963, the Army advanced him to Deputy Commander in Chief and Chief of Staff. He served as Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel in the Pentagon when he  assumed the training command at Fort Monroe, and he retired in 1970.
        General Woolnough is survived by his wife, Mary Dabinet Woolnough; two sons and a daughter from his first marriage, James P. of Dallas, Marianna Williams of Rosedale, Va., and Kenneth K. of Georgetown, Tex.; seven grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren. His first wife, Mary Porter Woolnough, died in 1980.
      