
        Maj. Gen. John C. Giraudo, a combat pilot who commanded bomber and fighter units in World War II, Korea and Vietnam, died on Monday at Palm of Pasadena Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 73 and lived in St. Petersburg.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Much decorated and twice shot down and taken prisoner, General Giraudo had his last overseas assignment in 1973, when he led the 17th Air Force in Germany, comprising all United States tactical air units in NATO's Central European command. He retired in 1977 as director of plans and policy for the Readiness Command headquarters at McDill Air Force Base in Florida.
        John Charles Giraudo was born in Santa Barbara, Calif. He quit college and joined the Army Air Forces in 1942, soon after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. By late 1943 he was a squadron leader on a bombing raid in Germany when  his B-24 was downed over Regensburg in Bavaria. He spent the next 18 months as a prisoner of war.
        After the war he went through advanced training and was attached to the staff of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, then Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, as the North American Treaty Organization was taking shape.
        He volunteered for combat duty in the Korean War and commanded a tactical fighter squadron. He was credited with shooting down several Soviet-built MIG's  before his F-86 jet was hit on his 99th mission in 1953. He ejected safely, but neither his superiors nor his family knew he was alive until he was freed at Panmunjom later that year.
        He later attended Staff College, Combat Operations School and the National War College. He served as vice wing commander and wing commander in Libya and West Germany, and in 1967, in the Vietnam War, commanded a tactical fighter wing in Thailand.
        General Giraudo flew 100 combat missions during that duty tour, 77 of them over North Vietnam. He logged 6,000 hours of flying time, including 643 in combat. Among his decorations were two Distinguished Service Medals, the Silver  Star, the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Bronze Star.
        He is survived by his wife, Shirley; three daughters, Jo Linda Giraudo of Atlanta, Denise Giraudo of Toronto and Kim Bridges of Treasure Island, Fla.; a son, Daniel Tobey of Arcadia, Fla.; a brother, Joseph, of Arlington, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      