
        Leon Garfield, whose rollicking historical novels for young readers conjured  up the London of Hogarth and Dickens, died last Sunday in a London hospital. He  was 74 and lived in London.
        The cause was complications after surgery, The Associated Press reported
        Mr. Garfield carved out a special niche in juvenile literature, writing dozens of books for older children that could be read with equal pleasure by their parents.
        "One does not write for children," he once said. "One writes so that children can understand. Which means writing as clearly, vividly and truthfully as possible. Adults might put up with occasional lapses; children are far less tolerant."
        Although best known for his adventure stories with historical settings, he won critical praise for his retellings of Bible stories, Greek myths and the plays of Shakespeare.
        Mr. Garfield was born in Brighton, England, and studied art briefly before serving in the Medical Corps for five years during World War II. From 1946 to 1966, he worked as a biochemistry technician at Whittington Hospital in London.
        His first novel, "Jack Holborn" (1964), was originally intended for adult readers, but an editor at Constable saw its potential for children and persuaded Mr. Garfield to revise it. The book, a fast-moving tale of murder and  treachery on the high seas, was an instant success and led to a series of novels with young heroes making their way in the rough-and-tumble world of England in the 18th and 19th centuries.
        His best-known novel in this vein was "Smith" (1967), about a young pickpocket in 18th-century London. Others included "Black Jack" (1968) and "The  Drummer Boy" (1969).
        With time, Mr. Garfield expanded his range. "The Strange Affair of Adelaide Harris" (1971) is a comic novel set in Brighton. In "The Pleasure Garden" (1976) and the cycle of 13 stories known as "The Apprentices" (1976-1978), he drew on biblical themes to explore moral and religious issues.
        More recently, he wrote a novel for adults, "The House of Cards" (1982), and  completed "The Mystery of Edwin Drood," Dickens's last, unfinished novel. His retelling of Greek myths in "The God Beneath the Sea" won the Carnegie Medal in  1970. "John Diamond" won a Whitbread Award in 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, the children's writer Vivien Alcock, and a daughter, Jane.
      