
        Jesse Hill Ford, the novelist whose haunting examination of the destructive relations between the races in his native South helped sow the seeds of destruction of his own acclaimed literary career, took his life on Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 66 and had undergone open heart surgery six weeks  ago.
        His friend and biographer, Anne Cheney, said Mr. Ford, who had become depressed since the apparently successful surgery, had locked himself in his library and shot himself in the head.
        A native of Troy, Ala., who grew up in Nashville, studied with the Fugitive  poet Donald Davidson at Vanderbilt University and later with the Fugitive writer Andrew Lytle at the University of Florida, Mr. Ford seemed destined to take his  place among the pantheon of Southern writers.
        After serving as a Navy officer in the Korean War and spending a couple of years in public relations, he married his college sweetheart and settled down in the west Tennessee town of Humboldt to write full time.
        Although he wrote dozens of short stories and several screenplays, it was the second of his four novels, "The Liberation of Lord Byron Jones," published by Atlantic-Little Brown in 1965, that established his reputation.
        The novel, whose richly detailed characters range from starry-eyed white liberals to lynch-law throwbacks and an array of black and white characters caught between their competing sensibilities, is the story of a prosperous black undertaker who is so determined to obtain a just, dignified divorce from his philandering young wife that he insists on naming a white policeman as her lover. When the undertaker's prominent white lawyer feels compelled to alert the policeman to his client's intentions, the policeman murders the undertaker.
        The book won wide acclaim, became a best seller and made Mr. Ford wealthy, but it did not make him popular in Humboldt. His neighbors, who knew that the novel was based on actual people and events, felt betrayed, especially after a 1970 William Wyler movie starring Lee J. Cobb, Roscoe Lee Browne, Lola Falana and Anthony Zerbe gave the story even wider circulation.
        Mr. Ford, whose next novel, "The Feast of St. Barnabas" (1969), also dealt with racial conflict, said that he and his family received numerous threats, mainly from white residents of Humboldt. But when black players were barred from the high school football team in the wake of the integration of the town's school system, Mr. Ford's son, the team captain, began to receive threats from black people.
        It was against that backdrop that Mr. Ford, seeing a strange car drive up and park on the grassy shoulder of his private driveway one night in 1970, left his  house with a rifle and fired two shots, killing the driver, a black soldier who  had apparently chosen the remote spot only for a romantic interlude with his girlfriend.
        Mr. Ford, who said he was afraid that the man had parked there to ambush his  son, insisted that the killing was an accident, that he had not aimed at the driver but had fired impulsively only to hold the car there until the police arrived.
        Much to the glee of many of his Humboldt neighbors, he was charged with murder. The 1971 trial drew widespread national attention, and although he was found not guilty, many believed that Mr. Ford had been the beneficiary of the very brand of distorted Southern justice he had exposed so vividly in his novel.
        "I don't think he ever recovered from the trial," said Ms. Cheney, an associate professor of English at Virginia Tech whose biography, "The Life and Letters of Jesse Hill Ford, Southern Writer," has just been published by Edwin Mellen. "It took everything he had in him to finish 'The Raider.' "
        After that novel was published in 1975, he never wrote another.
        His last published writings startled those who had known Mr. Ford as a committed liberal. As a guest columnist for USA Today in 1989 and 1990 he emerged as a crotchety, outspoken conservative who defended Oliver L. North, railed against the American Civil Liberties Union and said flag burners should have their heads broken.
        Mr. Ford is survived by his wife, Lillian, four children from his previous marriage, Jon Jr. of Jackson, Tenn., Charles of Steamboat Springs, Colo., Sara Langley of Bells, Tenn., and Elizabeth Hohenberg of Memphis; a sister, Ann Sellers of Syracuse, and eight grandchildren.
      