
        James B. Lewis, a prominent tax lawyer, author and teacher, died of liver failure on May 25 at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan.
        A partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison from 1955 until his retirement in 1982, Mr. Lewis was a leader of the tax bar and a former chairman  of the tax section of the American Bar Association. He wrote numerous books and  articles on income, estate and gift taxation, including "The Estate Tax" (1979)  and "The Marital Deduction" (1984), both of which were published by the Practicing Law Institute.
        The son of farmers, Mr. Lewis was born in Lenox, Tenn. At the age of 4, the  family moved to Washington state, where it scratched out a hardscrabble living.
        Mr. Lewis was educated at Centralia Junior College and Washington State University, and earned his law degree at the Catholic University of America in Washington. In 1942, he joined the Navy, serving until 1945.
        Following the end of World War II, Mr. Lewis became a civil servant and worked his way up through the ranks to hold several legal positions for the United States Treasury. He was also special assistant to the Chief Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service.
        Early in his career at Paul, Weiss, Mr. Lewis represented N. V. Philips of Eindhoven, the Netherlands, in the reorganization of the N. V. Philips Trust created on the eve of World War II to protect Philips overseas assets in case of a Nazi invasion of the Netherlands.
        Mr. Lewis developed the plan that led to the creation of the U.S. Philips Trust after the war. This satisfied Defense Department security requirements for foreign-owned businesses and enabled the Philips companies to continue doing business with the Pentagon.
        Mr. Lewis had two separate stints as an educator. From 1962 until 1983, he was an adjunct professor at the New York University School of Law.
        Following his retirement from active practice, he became a professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, where he founded its tax clinic. The clinic,  the first of its kind at a law school in the New York City area, helps ordinary  people lacking financial resources hire lawyers or accountants to protect their  interests.
        In May, Mr. Lewis retired from Cardozo and from the directorship of the tax clinic.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Irene Fogt of Manhattan; two sons, Edward K. Lewis and Robert L. Lewis, both of Brooklyn; three brothers, Milburn,  of Bothell, Wash., Paul, of Packwood, Wash., and Judson, of Portland, Ore.; a sister, Pauline, of Roseburg, Ore., and several nieces and nephews.
      