
        Nicholas D'Agostino Sr., a founder of one of New York City's largest and most innovative supermarket chains and supporter of charities in this country and his native Italy, died Sunday at his home in Manhasset, L.I., his son Nicholas D'Agostino Jr. said. He was 86.
        Mr. D'Agostino and his brother Pasquale entered the grocery business modestly, opening a small store in 1932 at 83d Street and Lexington Avenue, convinced that a shop that offered more personal service than its competitors could do well in Manhattan's silk-stocking district. Six decades later, propelled by a reputation for service and fine meat, the D'Agostino's supermarket chain has 26 stores in New York and Westchester and $200 million in  annual sales.
        Mr. D'Agostino, who was trained as a butcher, was known for going every morning to Washington Market, New York's main meat market, to find the best beef, veal and lamb available, but he kept the prices competitive with those of  his rivals.
        "In the 1950's and 60's, when meat was the nation's mainstay, it was a big plus to have high-quality product at the supermarket," said Nicholas Jr., who is D'Agostino's chairman.
        Trading on its reputation for high-quality meat, D'Agostino's ran highly successful advertisements in the 1960's that said, "Please don't kiss the butcher." Another idea that caught on were the big, white plastic "D'Ag bags" that were ubiquitous in New York in the 1970's. These large bags spread the store's name and gave it a cachet that could only be provided by dancers, models and artists who often lugged them around town to carry their shoes, clothes and  portfolios.
        Another hallmark of the brothers' business was a willingness to take advantage of marketing innovations in the industry before their competitors did, including offering a variety of goods and services under one roof. It was a new  kind of grocery business for New York City, rivals recalled.
        "He was a pioneer," said Andrew Balducci, president of Balducci's, a longtime grocery competitor in Greenwich Village. "We all owe a debt to him. He believed  in what every supermarket is looking to do today -- upgrade, upgrade, upgrade."
        The two brothers shared all the responsibilities, although Pasquale's title was president and Nicholas's was vice president. Nicholas was a gregarious man,  always ready with a joke, and adept at chatting up Park Avenue matrons as well as their maids.
        Mr. D'Agostino also involved himself in charitable and volunteer work, and was a founder of Boy's Towns and Girl's Towns of Italy, a network of institutions in Italy that provided food, schooling and sponsors to orphans and abandoned children. He was on the board of directors of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, and the winner of the B'nai B'rith Anti-Defamation Award for his work toward insuring fair treatment for people of  all races, religions and national origins.
        Mr. D'Agostino was the recipient of the Horatio Alger Award, an honor that has gone to a small group of "self-made" leaders with humble beginnings, including Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan.
        Nicholas D'Agostino was born in Bugnara, Italy, a village between Rome and Naples, on June 8, 1910. His parents were Ignazio and Loretta D'Agostino. In 1924, when he was 14, his family migrated to New York, where he and Pasquale helped their father on his fruit and vegetable pushcart. At age 18, Mr. D'Agostino, who never went to high school, decided to become a butcher's helper.
        In 1932, the two brothers opened a dry goods and grocery shop on East 83d Street, thinking that it would not be hard to do well, even during the Depression, in a wealthy neighborhood where maids and telephones were common.
        Six years later, the brothers moved their store to 77th Street and Third Avenue, taking advantage of more space to add a meat operation and calling it the Yorkville Food Market. At a time when many shoppers went to one store for produce, another for meat and yet another for milk, that store was one of the first supermarkets in New York, putting meat, dairy, produce, baked goods and dry goods under one roof. Later, in the 1950's, theirs were among the first supermarkets in New York to introduce shopping carts and frozen food cases.
        The brothers' business boomed after World War II, and a store soon followed at 20th Street and the East River, near the Peter Cooper Village housing development. By 1960, the year Pasquale died, they had expanded to eight stores, all on the East Side. In the 1970's, D'Agostino's spread to the West Side.
        "He always told me there were three types of people in the world," said Mr. Balducci. "No. 1, people that make it happen. No. 2, people that watch it happen. No. 3, people who say, 'What happened?' He was a person who made it happen."
        In 1964, Mr. D'Agostino turned over day-to-day operation of the business to his two sons, Stephen and Nicholas Jr., but he remained active as an adviser and mentor until 1984. During that time, he began to devote himself to charitable activities, golfing, and being a grandfather and great-grandfather.
        He is survived by his wife, Josephine Tucciarone, whom he married in 1932; two sons, Nicholas, who lives in Manhattan, and Stephen, of Rye, N.Y.; a daughter, Loretta Schmitz of Sacramento, Calif.; 17 grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      