
        Henry Schwarzschild, a refugee from Hitler's Germany who became a prominent American spokesman for civil rights and against the death penalty, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, where he lived. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter Hannah Schwarzschild.
        Mr. Schwarzschild was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, lived in Berlin and came to the United States with his family in 1939, when he was 14.
        When he was a young Berliner, he recalled later, "it was impossible to avoid  being made enormously, prematurely conscious of the world around one." Experiencing Nazism, he said, gave him a lasting sensitivity "to issues of political liberty."
        As an American he went on to make many public statements, in one forum or another, on civil liberties, capital punishment, racial justice and other issues.
        A historian of opposition to the death penalty, Herbert H. Haines, wrote in his recent book "Against Capital Punishment: The Anti-Death Penalty Movement in  America, 1972-1994," (Oxford, 1996) that Mr. Schwarzschild "emerged as the major architect" of the alliance that became named the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty.
        Last year, as director of the coalition's New York office, Mr. Schwarzschild  denounced the use of lethal injections in executions. "It is precisely because it falsely appeals to the sense of medical technology and efficiency and humaneness and painlessness that it is intended to make the process of sentencing people to death and executing them easier on everybody," he contended, adding, "That is the true horror of it."
        Mr. Schwarzschild grew up in Manhattan, served from 1944 to 1946 in the Army's Counter Intelligence Corps and went on to receive a bachelor's degree from City College of New York and to do graduate work in political theory at Columbia. Beginning in the 1950's, he worked as an executive of the International Rescue Committee, of the American Committee for Cultural Freedom,  of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith and in other posts.
        In 1961, he was taking part in a freedom ride by civil rights volunteers when he was arrested in Jackson, Miss., convicted of breach of the peace, jailed for  a week and fined $200.
        Soon afterward the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. inscribed Mr. Schwarzschild's Jackson Jail Commitment Certificate with the words, "Your courageous willingness to go to jail for freedom has brought us closer to our nation's bright tomorrow."
        Mr. Schwarzschild took part in other civil rights demonstrations in later years, and Fred Powledge, a historian of civil rights activism, wrote in a 1991  book that "he could be counted on to turn up anytime the Movement needed help."
        From 1964 to 1970, Mr. Schwarz schild was executive director of a civil rights group, the Lawyers' Constitutional Defense Committee. From 1972 to 1990,  he was on the staff of the American Civil Liberties Union, becoming the director of its Capital Punishment Project for more than 15 years until he retired from the A.C.L.U. five years ago.
        At his death, he was still head of the New York office of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, which was founded in 1976. Over the years he was on the boards of the New York Civil Liberties Union and the National Advisory Committee of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.
        In addition to his daughter Hannah, of Philadelphia, he is survived by his wife, the former Kathleen Jett; another daughter, Miriam Schwarzschild of Brooklyn, and a nephew, Maimon Schwarzschild of San Diego.
      