
        Harold Trobe, a key figure in efforts to rescue and resettle hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees from war-ravaged Europe, died on Monday at his home in Gainesville, Fla., where he had retired in 1980. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Trobe spent 36 years overseas for the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, starting in 1944. His assignments as a country director for the committee took him to places with great concentrations of human suffering.
        He was in charge of the agency's commitments to finance the movement of refugees, feed, shelter and clothe them and provide medical attention. He also traveled in the United States to lecture and raise money.
        Born in Beaver Falls, Pa., the son of a rabbi, Mr. Trobe graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and earned an master's degree in 1937 from what is now  the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work. German immigration to the United States was on the rise at the time, and he found work in Pittsburgh to retrain and find jobs for the new arrivals and care for their children.
        He turned to fund-raising and was increasingly engrossed in the plight of European Jews. In 1944 he joined the Joint Distribution Committee, which appointed him its overseas field representative and sent him to Lisbon, its European headquarters.
        Portugal was then a way station for refugees from German-occupied Europe, many of them Jews. Largely because of his efforts, two shiploads of refugees were able to sail for Palestine in the face of diplomatic opposition.
        The end of World War II in 1945 left an immense mass of displaced people all  over Europe. Mr. Trobe was sent to Czechoslovakia, an early focal point for displaced people.
        As the situation stabilized there in 1946, he went on to Milan as the committee's director for northern Italy. With long gaps between the arrival and  departure of displaced people, Mr. Trobe and his assistants cared for the well-being of many of them.
        After a stint in Vienna, he returned to Italy in 1952 as countrywide Joint Distribution Committee director. He remained there for five years, focusing on the flight of Jews from North Africa.
        He then served as the director general of the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society  for Europe and North Africa for five years, and four more in Rio de Janeiro in the same position for all of Latin America. From 1966 until his retirement, he worked for Joint Distribution Committee in Israel.
        In an interview with The Jerusalem Post in 1969 he remembered local authorities' complaints of illegal entry by refugees. "How they get across the border is not my business," he said he told them, "but the minute they come across, they are. If they come across illegally, that's also not my concern.
        "I'm not the police. I feed them."
        Mr. Trobe is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ruth Weiner Trobe; two sons, Jonathan D. of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Dr. Thomas O. of Zurich; a daughter, Susan  T. Goldbard of Millbrae, Calif.; a brother, Jacob L. of Haverford, Pa., and six  grandchildren.
      