
        Don Grolnick, a pianist, songwriter and producer best known for his work with songwriters, including Bonnie Raitt, Paul Simon and James Taylor, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in New York City.
        The cause was complications from non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Jeanne O'Connor.
        Mr. Grolnick toured and recorded as a backup musician for Linda Ronstadt, Steely Dan, Bette Midler, James Brown, Phoebe Snow, Luther Vandross, Carly Simon and Aaron Neville. He had worked with James Taylor since 1974 as pianist, band leader and producer. Fluent in idioms from jazz to gospel to Latin music, he put a self-effacing professionalism at the service of the song.
        Mr. Grolnick grew up in Levittown, L.I., and immersed himself in jazz. He attended Tufts University, and in 1971 he joined Dreams, a jazz-rock band that included such up-and-coming studio musicians as the saxophonist Michael Brecker, the trumpeter Randy Brecker and the drummer Billy Cobham. Through the 1970's and early 80's, he was a leading New York session musician, heard on such albums as  Ms. Raitt's "Streetlights," Ms. Ronstadt's "What's New" and Steely Dan's "Royal  Scam" and "Aja." He continued to work with pop-jazz groups as well, including Steps and the Brecker Brothers band, who recorded his compositions.
        Mr. Grolnick first recorded as a band leader in 1983 with "Hearts and Numbers" (Windham Hill), and in the late 1980's he began concentrating on jazz.  He released "Weaver of Dreams" (Blue Note) in 1990 and "Nighttown" (Blue Note) in 1992. He also produced albums for John Scofield, Peter Erskine and Bob Berg.  Michael Brecker's "Don't Try This at Home," produced by Mr. Grolnick, won a Grammy Award in 1988 for best jazz instrumental performance. Mr Grolnick led a Latin jazz group for an engagement at the Blue Note in New York in 1994, and toured Europe and Japan leading small groups; he also performed in New York clubs like Sweet Basil.
        Mr. Grolnick continued to work with James Taylor, and in April 1995 he was the music director for the Rainforest Foundation concert at Carnegie Hall, with  Mr. Taylor, Sting, Bruce Springsteen and Jessye Norman. An album by his Latin jazz group, "Medianoche," is to be released in August by Warner Brothers.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his parents, Lester and Muriel Grolnick of Huntington, L.I.
      