
        Marjorie Gross, a writer and producer of the television series "Seinfeld," who also wrote a humorous article about her ovarian cancer in The New Yorker in  April, died of the illness on June 7 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 40.
        Ms. Gross was born in Toronto and got her start doing stand-up comedy in local clubs. She moved to New York City, where she was one of a group of female  stand-up comedians, who were then a relative rarity, performing at Catch a Rising Star, the Comic Strip and the Improvisation.
        In 1981, Ms. Gross broke into television as a writer for the sitcom "Square  Pegs," with Sarah Jessica Parker. She also appeared on "Late Show With David Letterman." Then in 1994, she joined two old friends, Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David, as a writer for "Seinfeld."
        Even after her ovarian cancer was diagnosed two and a half years ago, Ms. Gross kept working. "Jerry put a cot in her office for her so she could lie down," her brother Jonathan said.
        Among the "Seinfeld" shows Ms. Gross wrote, with Peter Mehlman, was the shower head episode, which was rebroadcast on Thursday. The episode was an extended riff on the drawbacks of environmentally approved low-flow shower heads. One by one, the show's characters made their appearance with flattened hair because their showers lacked enough pressure to rinse out shampoo.
        In her New Yorker article about having ovarian cancer, a disease that killed  her mother, Ms. Gross made the illness sound like nothing more than a vast practical joke. In the piece, titled "Cancer Becomes Me," she made light of some of the darker aspects of her illness, noting the way doctors tend to use different analogies when describing tumors in women and men. "They found a tumor that they said was the size of an orange," she wrote. "See, for women they use the citrus fruit comparison; for men it's sporting goods: Oh, it's the size of a softball, or in England, a cricket ball."
        She listed some "advantages" to being sick, including, "You automatically get called courageous," and, "Everyone returns your calls immediately: having cancer is like being Mike Ovitz."
        Besides her brother, of Toronto, she is survived by her father, Jules Gross,  and another brother, Adam, both of whom also live in Toronto.
      