
        Dr. Michel Mathew Ter-Pogossian, who led the research that turned the positron emission tomography (PET) scanner from an intriguing concept to a medical tool used in hospitals and laboratories everywhere, died on Wednesday while vacationing in Paris. He was 71 and lived in St. Louis, where he worked at Washington University Medical School.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        The possibilities inherent in positron emission tomography had attracted scientists for years. It differs from other imaging techniques like X-rays, ultrasound or computerized tomography (CT), that give a doctor anatomical information. Instead, it pictures physiological activity. Other techniques supply a map of the body's roadways, its anatomy, while PET shows the traffic along those pathways, its biochemistry.
        In the search for a workable model, great strides had been made by others over the decades, but it was Dr. Ter-Pogossian and his colleagues in St. Louis who produced a series of machines for commercial production and practical use in the 1970's.
        Dr. Ter-Pogossian had been associated with Washington University since 1946,  when he came to this country from France. He earned his M.S. at the university and a Ph.D. in nuclear physics in 1950, when he was appointed an instructor.
        Much of his pioneering work was done at Washington University Medical School  Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, whose division of radiation sciences he directed from 1963 to 1991. He was named professor of biophysics and physiology in 1964 and professor of radiology in 1971. He reached emeritus status last year.
        Early in his professional life, Dr. Ter-Pogossian built one of the first scanners to detect radioactivity concentrations in living material, as well as a tool for delivering radiation therapy for cancers of the cervix and uterus. In the early 1950's he recognized the potential of short-lived radioactive tracers, and he was one of the first to use them to find brain tumors and measure blood flow.
        His contributions to PET scanning evolved from his interest in those fleeting radioactive tracers, or isotopes, as a means of studying the chemical processes  in the body. With the tracers, a key component of PET, the machine records signals from inside the patient's body, and a computer transforms them into colorful, cross-sectional images that reveal the biochemical activities of organs and cells.
        At first, this new medical technology took the form of an awkward-looking machine its creators called "the Chicken" because its protruding tubes and wires looked a bit like a rooster's comb. Today's PET scanners tend to be sleek futuristic-looking devices and provide an invaluable window into the human body to observe brain function, cancer, mental illness, heart disease and much more.
        Earlier researchers had used substances like iodine and phosphorus as radioactive tracers. Dr. Ter-Pogossian instead chose short-lived isotopes of oxygen, nitrogen and carbon because they, unlike the others, became a direct part of the body's chemical activities. Produced in a cyclotron, they are called short-lived because their radiation disappears within minutes.
        Even after more than four decades in the laboratory, Dr. Ter-Pogossian never  lost his love of research, having turned into what he called a "research junkie" long ago. "After a while, you just look at the world that way," he once explained. "I think it's impossible to give up."
        He was born in Berlin to an Armenian family that had fled the persecution of  Armenians after World War I. As a child in France he experimented with toy physics and chemistry sets in a closet of the family's apartment.
        He graduated from the University of Paris in 1942 and was active in the French Resistance in World War II. He left France in 1946 and, given a choice to complete his studies in England or the United States, he chose this country because, he said, it seemed "more exciting."
        Dr. Ter-Pogossian is survived by his wife, Ann; two sons, Scott and Rowland Dodson, both of St. Louis; a daughter, Ella Dodson of Madison, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      