
        Tommy Collins, a popular fighter of the 1950's who was once beaten so savagely that his defeat sparked a national outcry to reform boxing, died on Monday in Boston. He was 67 years old.
        Although he was only 123 pounds, Collins packed a powerful punch that let him knock out 70 percent of his opponents. He also faced four world champions in 13  months, and early in his career fought 26 times in a year. He was the only opponent to knock down the featherweight champion Sandy Saddler, in a 1952 fight he lost in six rounds.
        But Collins, who never won a title, became a national figure in 1953 when he was battered to the canvas 10 times by the lightweight champion, Jimmy Carter, in a bout at Boston Garden. The referee, Tommy Rawson, did not stop the fight, and the punishment continued until one of Collins's cornermen leaped into the ring to stop it in the fourth round.
        The fight, which attracted more than 12,000 fans and was one of the biggest events in Boston's boxing history, was televised nationally and created widespread controversy, including calls for reform in the sport by Congress. The savagery of the beating helped to create the three-knockdown rule almost universally in effect now; when a fighter is knocked down three times, the bout  is ended.
        The boxing writer for The New York Times, Joseph C. Nichols, started his account of the fight: "In one of the most reprehensible mismatches in modern ring history. . . ."
        The fight ended only because Collins's corner stopped it. Indeed, Rawson was  counting over the fallen fighter at the time. Later, Rawson was to explain, "I thought it my duty" to let the fight continue because it was a championship.
        Rawson was cleared of negligence by a Massachusetts commission, and Collins himself absolved the referee of any wrongdoing. But the bout, which was quickly  dubbed the "Boston Massacre," prompted switchboards to light up at newspapers across the United States as viewers protested the brutality of the match. Joseph W. Martin Jr., the Republican Speaker of the House, said he supported a Federal  investigation into the safety of the sport.
        Collins, who was considered Boston's most popular fighter since John L. Sullivan, was his usual cheerful self after getting out of the hospital the next day.
        "I feel fine," he said. "Haven't got an ache in my body. Don't I look O.K.?"
        Collins continued his career for the next 18 months. He was never again as dominant as he had been earlier in his career.
        Collins, however, made two aborted attempts at retirement before finally hanging up the gloves at the age of 25. He had posted a 60-12 won-lost record that included 43 knockouts. Among the fighters he defeated was the former featherweight champion Willie Pep. In a photo published around the world, Collins sat in the ring and wept after knocking out Pep, thinking he had severely hurt Pep after catching him with a vicious left hook.
        Collins is survived by his wife, May MacAllister Collins, two sons, two brothers and three sisters.
      