
        Henry Regnery, a one-time New Deal Democrat who became the godfather of modern conservatism as the publisher of the movement's leading theorists after World War II, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 84.
        His son, Alfred, said the cause was complications from brain surgery.
        Mr. Regnery, a Chicago textile magnate's son who graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, worked briefly for the New Deal's Resettlement Administration, did post-graduate work at Harvard under the free market economist Joseph Schumpeter and later helped found the conservative weekly Human Events.
        It was his fledgling Chicago publishing house, the Henry Regnery Company, that brought out William F. Buckley Jr.'s "God and Man at Yale," which threw down the conservative gauntlet at the feet of the liberal academic establishment and created a sensation in 1951. Indeed, it was a measure of the grip that liberal-minded editors had on American publishing at the time that Regnery, which was founded in 1947, was one of only two houses known to be sympathetic to conservative authors.
        The liberal academic establishment wasted little time in picking up the gauntlet Mr. Buckley had thrown down, but it was Mr. Regnery, not Mr. Buckley, who got slapped.
        As a result of his publishing "God and Man at Yale," Mr. Regnery lost a lucrative contract to publish the University of Chicago's Great Books series.
        Although the Buckley book made the greater impact on the general public, Mr.  Regnery created an even greater sensation within conservative circles two years  later when he brought out Russell Kirk's "Conservative Mind," which was greeted  by conservatives as the second coming of Edmund Burke and provided the underpinning for the later development of conservative thought.
        In addition to publishing books by conservative authors like Albert J. Nock,  James J. Kirkpatrick, James Buenham and Whittaker Chambers, Mr. Regnery published paperback editions of literary works by authors like the novelist Wyndham Lewis and the poets T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound.
        Mr. Regnery, who sold his original publishing company in 1977, then started another one, Regnery Publishing Inc., now based in Washington and operated by his son.
        In addition to his son, of Alexandria, Va., Mr. Regnery is survived by his wife, the former Eleanor Scattergood; two daughters, Susan Schnitzler of Trier,  Germany, and Margaret Caron of Chicago; 11 grandchildren and a great grandchild.
      