
        Jane Howard, a writer whose works included a widely praised biography of Margaret Mead and a close look at the dynamics of families, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61.
        Ms. Howard, who also had a home in Sag Harbor, L.I., had been suffering from  cancer, friends said.
        Although she once described herself as "just a garden-variety English major" at the University of Michigan, Ms. Howard had been bitten by the journalism bug  as a girl in Winnetka, Ill. Her father was a political reporter for The Chicago  Tribune.
        After graduating from the University of Michigan, where she was a reporter and editor on the campus newspaper, she came to Manhattan at the age of 21 as an editorial trainee at Time-Life. Her superiors noticed her drive and intelligence, and by 1958 she was doing profiles for Life magazine.
        Insatiably curious about why people do what they do, and why relationships work or don't work, Ms. Howard specialized in profiling writers, including Saul  Bellow, John Updike and Truman Capote. She once celebrated New Year's at Capote's home at Sagaponack, L.I., "eating baked potatoes and caviar," as she put it.
        Her most acclaimed work was the 1984 biography "Margaret Mead: a Life." Her account of the anthropologist's long life and career was a critical and commercial triumph. Ms. Howard interviewed about 300 people and traveled as far  as Australia and New Zealand to cull fact from legend.
        Her first trip to Australia produced one embarrassing and, in retrospect, humorous exchange. While in Sydney, a city of some three million, she happened to mention to an Australian sociology professor that she had never seen a live kangaroo.
        The professor told her not to feel bad. In his trips to Manhattan, he said, he had never seen a live buffalo.
        Ms. Howard's earlier books were "Please Touch: A Guided Tour of the Human Potential Movement" (1970), "A Different Woman" (1973) and "Families" (1978).
        "A Different Woman" was an examination of the feminist movement. For "Families," Ms. Howard visited dozens of households and concluded that, contrary to superficial wisdom, families were not dying but "in flamboyant and dumbfounding ways they are changing their size and their shape and their purpose."
        At her death, Ms. Howard was under contract to Simon & Schuster for a nonfiction book, tentatively titled "Heartland," on the Midwest.
        Between books, she taught writing at several universities, including the University of Georgia and Yale. She participated in the Writers Workshop at the  University of Iowa. Most recently, she taught a graduate class in nonfiction at  Columbia.
        She once described her religious upbringing as "knee-jerk Congregational" and said she felt most intensely religious in the presence of nature, "where the air is fresh and there's something to look at other than rectangles."
        She is survived by a sister, Ann Condon of Seattle.
      