
        Late Edition - Final, the Hollywood producer whose films brought fame, fortune or both to Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers and other stars and skilled entertainment to American filmgoers from the Depression Era through the 1960's,  died on Saturday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 91.
        The best-known of the scores of movies that he produced in his four-decade career -- from 1931 to 1970 -- include "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" (1939), "The Blackboard Jungle" (1955) and "Butterfield 8" (1960).
        Among the stars who appeared in his movies were, besides Mr. Astaire and Miss Rogers, Elizabeth Taylor, who won an Academy Award for "Butterfield 8"; Bette Davis, who was lofted to stardom in "Of Human Bondage" (1934), and Katharine Hepburn, who received an Academy Award for "Morning Glory" (1933).
        Mr. Berman, whose father, Harry M. Berman, was Universal's general manager, was admired for producing films that were entertaining and technically masterful. By one count he produced more than 100 films. His work was done mostly for R.K.O., where he was seen as a boy wonder, and for MGM.
        Pandro Berman was presented with the highest honor of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award, at the 1977 Academy Awards ceremony.
        In 1992 he received the Motion Picture Producers Guild of America's highest honor, the David O. Selznick Lifetime Achievement Award for Motion Pictures.
        Mr. Berman's Astaire-Rogers musicals included favorites like "The Gay Divorcee," "Top Hat" and "Shall We Dance."
        In a 1988 television documentary, "Hollywood: The Golden Years," Mr. Berman recalled that it was difficult to get the two stars to "make picture after picture," and that Irving Berlin, whose films included "Top Hat," was "tough on  money."
        Earlier, Astaire said, "Berman will say we fought, we didn't."
        In the 1940's, the story goes, Mr. Berman prepared for the first of his several Elizabeth Taylor films, "National Velvet" (1944), by telling the 12-year-old Miss Taylor that she was too small.
        And so, it is said, she began eating steak and roller-skating regularly, and  within four months, she was three inches taller.
        Mr. Berman was born in Pittsburgh. His mother was the former Julie Epstein. He attend public schools and, from 1923 to 1928, he worked in Hollywood as an assistant film cutter and an assistant to Tod Browning and other directors.
        Mr. Berman was with R.K.O. Studios from 1928 to 1940, rising to be a producer in 1930 and head of production in 1937. Later he recalled about his years there  that the studio had many owners, "and none of the owners ever agreed on anything." He also remembered R.K.O. as having "more desire than brains."
        In a 1988 book by Neal Gabler, Mr. Berman recalled that after he had produced a series of Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals, he had just signed a new five-year contract with R.K.O. when Louis B. Mayer of MGM -- then the "Tiffany"  of Hollywood studios -- called and said, "I want you to work for me."
        To which Berman said, "Unfortunately I just made a five-year deal and I'm tied up." Mr. Mayer replied, "When your deal is up, I want you to come work for  me." And so it was.
        Mr. Berman was a producer with MGM Studios from 1940 to 1967 and turned out some of MGM's most highly regarded films. From 1967 to 1970 he was at 20th Century Fox.
        His movies also included "Gunga Din," with Cary Grant and Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and the durable Marx Brothers film "Room Service," in addition to "The Hunchback of Notre Dame," which starred Charles Laughton, in the title role, and Maureen O'Hara.
        That production had its special technical problems. A 1988 biography of Mr. Laughton, by Simon Callow, reported that the makeup Mr. Laughton wore in that role took "months to evolve" under Mr. Laughton's "impatient direction," and that the actor insisted that the artificial hump he wore during the filming be painfully heavy.
        Mr. Berman's many later films include "The Picture of Dorian Gray" (1945), which won an Academy Award for its cinematography; "The Three Musketeers" (1948), starring Gene Kelly, as well as "The Blackboard Jungle," which starred Sidney Poitier and Glenn Ford.
        In 1970, the year he retired, he produced the drama "Move," with Elliott Gould and Paula Prentiss.
        Mr. Berman married Kathryn Hereford in 1960, and she died in 1993.
        He is survived by three children from his other marriage, to his wife Viola -- which ended in divorce: Susan Moshay, Cynthia Schaffel and Michael Berman, all of Beverly Hills, and several grandchildren.
      