
        Henry R. Williams, a lawyer who represented Rep. Adam Clayton Powell Jr., headed the Model Cities program's Harlem office and was a Civil Court judge, died on June 29 at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 84 and lived in Harlem.
        He had prostate cancer, said his son, Henry R. Jr.
        He did much legal work for Representative Powell that ensued from a lawsuit  for slander that was filed against the Congressmen by a Harlem woman in 1960. Mr. Powell had contended that she had gathered racketeering payoffs for delivery to the police. The uproar had adverse political consequences for the Congressman, and, as he recalled in his autobiography, "Adam by Adam," he formed a team of Mr. Williams, William Kunstler and seven other lawyers who worked without a fee. But after Mr. Powell was re-elected in 1968, Congress barred him  from committee and seniority assignments, and he lost the 1970 Democratic primary to Charles B. Rangel.
        Mr. Williams was also active in Democratic politics. In 1963, he waged a losing campaign for the Democratic nomination for city councilman.
        After Abraham Beame was elected Mayor in 1973, Mr. Williams was named to the  post in the federally financed Model Cities program.
        In 1978, running as a Democrat, he was elected a Civil Court judge, winning 55 percent of the vote in a race against Criminal Court Judge Bruce McM. Wright, who had Republican and Liberal backing. In 1982, Mr. Williams reached the mandatory age for retirement from that bench, and he resumed his law practice until 1994. He was a former president of the Harlem Lawyers Association.
        Mr. Williams was born in Manhattan, graduated from George Washington High School and received a bachelor's degree from St. Augustine's College in Raleigh, N.C., a master's degree in education from New York University and a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1948.
        He also worked as a postal clerk and served in the Army in World War II before establishing a general practice -- in civil law -- which he carried on mostly from an office on 125th Street.
        His 1964 marriage to Elaine Albritton ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son, Henry, of Palisades Park, N.J., he is survived by a niece, Yvonne M. Blackwell of Queens, and a first cousin, Jerome Douglas of Hempstead, L.I..
      