
        John M. Meyer Jr., a former chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company who helped develop some of the modern systems that allow for easier settlement of securities trades, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., said William G. McBride, a spokesman for J. P. Morgan. He was 89.
        As chairman of both Morgan and its subsidiary the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, Mr. Meyer could observe firsthand the creaky, unreliable system that existed in the 1960's in which cash and securities were physically exchanged after market trades. Like many experts, he grew concerned that the process, known as clearing and settlement, might falter, and he decided to improve it.
        In 1968, when Morgan wanted to move into the fast-growing trading business in Europe, Mr. Meyer was a negotiator in establishing the Euroclear system, the  oldest and largest clearance and settlement system for internationally traded securities.
        As business boomed on Wall Street in the late 1960's, the paperwork required  for clearing and settling the trades overwhelmed the securities firms. The stock market had to be closed on some days to allow the firms to catch up. In 1973, Mr. Meyer co-founded the Depository Trust Company of New York, which provided settlement services for the securities industry. Through the use of computers and other systems, the trust company eliminated the need for the physical transfer of most stock certificates after a trade.
        Mr. Meyer graduated from the University of Chicago in 1927 and began his career in finance working for Guaranty Company, the securities affiliate of the Guaranty Trust Company. In 1955, he became a senior vice president with J.P. Morgan. In 1957, he became a director of the company, a position he held until 1959, when Morgan merged with Guaranty Trust to form Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York.
        Mr. Meyer was elected president of the bank in 1965. By 1969, he was named chairman and chief executive of Morgan Guaranty and its holding company, J.P. Morgan.
        Mr. Meyer retired in 1971 and served as chairman of the firm's directors advisory council until 1984.
        Mr. Meyer is survived by two daughters, Mrs. Gordon Gray of Greenwich and Emily Meyer Michalopoulos of New York City; a son, John M. Meyer 3d of Boston, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      