
        Duke Albrecht of Bavaria, head of a dynasty more than 800 years old and pretender to the Bavarian throne, died on Monday at an ancestral home, Castle Berg, near Munich, his family said. He was 91 years old.
        Castle Berg is on Lake Starnberg, 12 miles southwest of Munich, the same place that witnessed the drowning of his most famous forebear, King Ludwig II, builder of the fabled castle at Neuschwannstein, who was known as Mad King Ludwig.
        Duke Albrecht lived though the revolution in 1918 that deposed the Bavarian  monarchy and the Nazi Government that imprisoned him and other members of his family in concentration camps.
        Born in Munich in 1905, he was the second son of Crown Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria and a grandson of King Ludwig III, the last King of Bavaria whose Wittelsbach dynasty ruled virtually without interruption from 1180. When his brother Luitpold died in 1914, the young Albrecht advanced in line to royal succession after his father.
        Four years later, however, a short-lived revolution in Munich -- backed by many who held the monarchy responsible for Bavarian losses in World War I -- abolished the monarchy and proclaimed a republic. The teen-age Albrecht and other members of the royal household decamped to the Austrian Tyrol, but neither Ludwig III nor any of his descendants formally abdicated or renounced their claim to the monarchy.
        The rise of Hitler in 1933 brought further problems, since members of the royal house refused to join the Nazi Party, which then forebade Prince Albrecht  to continue his studies in forestry.
        The family fled to Hungary in 1938 but, after the outbreak of war in 1939, Prince Albrecht offered his services to the German Army. The offer was rejected. Arrested by the Gestapo in 1944, Prince Albrecht, his wife and four children were held in concentration camps at Sachsenhausen, Flossenburg and Dachau.
        The family was liberated by United States soldiers. But, as an occupying power, the United States also squashed any hope of a return to the throne, dissolving the monarchist political party in Bavaria and forbidding monarchist agitation.
        Denied any political role, Duke Albrecht spent much of his time hunting. His  trophies included heads of 1,290 bucks and 590 does along with a collection of 3,425 sets of antlers. He was the author of two books on the habits of deer.
        In 1980 Duke Albrecht officiated at ceremonies marking the 800th anniversary  of the House of Wittelsbach, one of Europe's most enduring dynasties.
        Twice married and twice a widower, Duke Albrecht is survived by four children, including a son, Duke Franz, who now becomes head of the dynasty. Duke Franz is known as a patron of the arts who is an honorary trustee of the Museum  of Modern Art in New York.
        Duke Albrecht's funeral is to take place on Saturday in Munich and the service will be led by Friedrich Cardinal Wetter, Archbishop of Munich.
      