
        Rachmael Weinstock, a violinist who specialized in chamber music and was renowned as a teacher, died on July 19 at the Split Rock Nursing Home in the Bronx. He was 86.
        Mr. Weinstock toured widely during the 1930's as first violinist of the original Manhattan String Quartet. (An ensemble formed by some of his students revived the name more recently.) During the 1940's he was second violinist of the Roth Quartet and in the 1950's he was a member of the New York Trio. He also played in the Radio City Music Hall orchestra briefly, and with Arturo Toscanini's NBC Symphony Orchestra for eight years.
        Mr. Weinstock was born in Newark in 1910, and assembled an approximation of  a violin, using wood and chicken wire, when he was 4. He began studying the instrument seriously the following year, and by the time he was 14 his violin teacher had hired him as an assistant. It was around then that he became fascinated with chamber music, after hearing a recording by the Flonzaley Quartet.
        Soon after he enrolled at the Manhattan School of Music, in the late 1920's,  he formed the Manhattan String Quartet with three other students. The group, which, unlike most quartets, performed its programs from memory, made its formal debut at Town Hall in 1932 and toured Europe in 1935. During the tour, the ensemble performed the Brahms and Franck Piano Quintets in Budapest with Bela Bartok at the piano. In 1936, the quartet toured the Soviet Union during an easing of restrictions on foreign artists. The group disbanded in 1937.
        Mr. Weinstock began his teaching career in the late 1940's, when he joined the faculty of the Manhattan School, where he remained on the faculty as a professor emeritus. He also taught at Manhattanville College, City College, Brigham Young University and the University of Tel Aviv, as well as privately. His students include members of the New York Philharmonic, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam and several chamber ensembles, including the current Manhattan String Quartet.
        He is survived by a son, Richard, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      