
        Samuel Toledano, former secretary general of Spain's Jewish federation and an architect of the agreement that brought full legal recognition for Jews in Spain and in effect overturned the expulsion order of 1492, died in Madrid on Monday. He was 66.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, a family member said.
        Mr. Toledano was a leader of Spain's Jews for 36 years and was a co-founder  of the Federation of Israelite Communities, representing Spain's 15,000 Jews. He was secretary general from 1982 to 1994.
        Mr. Toledano was a key negotiator in preparing the agreement between the Jews and the state that the Government approved in 1992. The agreement stipulated that Jews would have the same legal rights, tax exemptions and constitutional protection as Roman Catholics, Spain's dominant religious group.
        These rights include the ability of Jews to seek days off from their employers for religious holidays, to have Jewish weddings legally recognized by  the state and to hold Jewish religious services in the military, where Catholic  worship was compulsory.
        The Government also approved parallel agreements with the Protestant and Muslim faiths in 1992.
        Mr. Toledano was among a small number of Jewish leaders from around the world who welcomed King Juan Carlos I to a Madrid synagogue on March 31, 1992, for a symbolic reconciliation. The event came on the 500th anniversary of the decree issued by the Catholic monarchs in 1492 ordering 400,000 Jews to convert or be expelled.
        Born on Aug. 15, 1929, in Tangier, Morocco, Mr. Toledano traced his lineage to a 15th-century rabbi from Toledo, Spain. He earned a law degree at the University of Paris and moved to Spain in 1959, where he soon became a board member of Madrid's umbrella Jewish organization.
        He helped win limited legal recognition for the Jews in Spain in 1967, which  paved the way for the construction of a Madrid synagogue in 1968, the first one  built in Spain since the Inquisition.
        Mr. Toledano also fought to secure Spain's recognition of Israel, which occurred in 1986. He served for many years as a delegate to the World Jewish Congress in New York and was a board member of the European Jewish Congress in Paris.
        He was a founding member of the Center for Judeo-Christian Studies in Madrid. In business, he was a board member and financial director of Jusan S.A. in Madrid, which manufactures and markets telephone, television and other electronic equipment.
        Mr. Toledano is survived by his second wife, Nira; a son, Mauricio Toledano,  and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 26, 1996, Friday
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Samuel Toledano, a Jewish leader in Spain, was published in error. The picture, provided by The Associated Press, showed Shmuel Toledano, an Israel Government official who is no relation to the  Spanish Mr. Toledano.
      