
        Charles DeForest, a singer, pianist and songwriter who performed continuously in Manhattan nightclubs for more than four decades, died on Saturday in Penn Yan, N.Y., at the home of his nephew. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said Earl Janson, a close friend.
        A quintessential New York saloon performer, Mr. DeForest was widely praised  for a performing style that was at once urbane and quietly intimate. Evoking his music, the New York Times jazz critic John S. Wilson described "a soft intimate  voice that manages to brush gently over the words in a manner that is clear and  precise without being exaggerated." Mr. Wilson added, "The songs he writes are blithe, witty, Porter-like lyrics riding on a catchy rhythmic pulse."
        A prolific songwriter whose work was recorded by George Shearing, Blossom Dearie, Chris Connor and Sylvia Syms, among many others, Mr. DeForest found his  most important champion in Tony Bennett, who included three of his songs on his  1990 album, "Astoria: Portrait of the Artist" (Columbia). One of those, "When Do the Bells Ring for Me?" became Mr. DeForest's signature tune.
        Mr. DeForest, who was born in Genoa, N.Y., moved to New York City in the early 1950's to pursue a career as a composer but quickly became a popular performer in Manhattan nightclubs and piano bars, where he worked steadily for 44 years. Among the clubs that featured him were the Blue Angel, Peacock Alley at the Waldorf-Astoria and the Edwardian Room at the Plaza. In later years, he appeared at Ted Hook's Backstage, One Fifth Avenue and the Supper Club. He spent three years, up to a few weeks before his death, as the resident singing pianist at Danny's Grand Sea Palace.
        Mr. DeForest recorded three albums for small labels and composed the music and lyrics to "City by Dawn," a short feature film in which he also starred. "Prizes," a musical for which he wrote the score, was presented by AMAS Repertory Theater in 1989.
        He received awards from the Manhattan Association of Cabarets in 1994 and '95 and the Mabel Mercer Foundation in 1992.
        Mr. DeForest is survived by a brother, George DeForest Jr. of Genoa, N.Y.
      