
        Lester Robbins, a developer of tract housing in the United States after World War II who became a moving force in Brooklyn's highly praised Nehemiah Plan of the 1980's, died on Sunday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 90 and also lived in East Hampton, L.I., and Lantana, Fla.
        One of the first builders of tract homes in New Jersey, Mr. Robbins also developed millions of square feet of industrial and commercial property around the country. His organization continues as the Robbins Agency of Union, N.J., which manages far-flung housing projects, shopping centers and office space.
        In the Old Testament, the King of Persia sent Nehemiah to Jerusalem to rebuild it after the Baylonian Captivity, a tale that fired the imagination of Roman Catholic and Protestant church leaders in East Brooklyn as they contemplated blocks upon blocks of derelict, burned-out housing in Brownsville.
        They banded together to raise financing and produce shelter in an area with a large black and Hispanic population and huge tracts of idle city-held land. The  idea behind the Nehemiah Plan was that of I. D. Robbins, Lester Robbins's cousin, a civic-minded construction executive who died earlier this month.
        He supervised the project and Lester Robbins was the builder. By then, in the 1980's, he had created more than 6,000 single-family homes in New York and New Jersey during 40 years.
        The moving force behind the plan was the failure of many large postwar public-housing projects built in the inner cities for urban renewal. Instead, the vision was for affordable, low-density row houses, one to a family. Mr. Robbins finished 1,200 of them in the 1980's.
        Born in St. Louis, the son of a dress manufacturer, he was brought to New York City at age 3. He received varsity letters in lacrosse and and football at  Cornell, graduating in 1927 as a chemical engineering major.
        He worked as a button jobber and helped his father build a sand-lime brick factory, the only experience in construction he brought to his first project. It was a 20-unit four-story walkup in Elmhurst, Queens, in 1936.
        Small projects of that sort made for the experience he needed to bid on government housing for workers in war production, just when regular home building ground to a halt because of the draft and a shortage of materials. Mr.  Robbins built hundreds of units in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and on Governors Island in New York Harbor.
        After the war, he was ready for the building boom caused by returning veterans. He specialized in large-scale production of single-family dwellings and moderately priced garden apartments. He also gradually expanded Robbins Construction into housing for the elderly in New Jersey and commercial and industrial undertakings across the country.
        As a philanthropist, he provided college scholarships for dozens of young people. Among his other beneficiaries were the United States Holocaust Memorial  Museum in Washington and Thanks to Scandinavia, an American-supported organization honoring Scandinavian efforts to save Jews from the Holocaust in World War II.
        Mr. Robbins is survived by his wife of 27 years, Sheila Johnson Robbins; two  daughters, Marjorie Friedlander of Los Angeles and Ann Aknin of Dana Point, Calif.; two sons, David of Princeton, N.J., and Peter of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Barbara Morgan of Parlin, N.J., and Meredith Hardy of Mercer Island, Wash.; a stepson, Thomas Hardy of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Lucille Gruen of Delray Beach, Fla.; 10 grandchildren, 15 stepgrandchildren, 15 great-grandchildren, and 5 stepgreat-grandchildren.
      