
        T. Clark Hull, a former lieutenant governor and State Supreme Court justice who was one of Connecticut's most irreverent and popular politicians, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 75 and lived in Danbury.
        The cause was complications from heart surgery a week ago, his son Steven said.
        Mr. Hull continued to work as a state referee, hearing civil cases, after his mandatory retirement from the Supreme Court in 1991.
        Sometimes described as the "toastmaster general" of the state, Mr. Hull referred to his heart condition in February in testimony to the Judiciary Committee of the Legislature before it approved his reappointment as referee. "Talk to my cardiologist," he said. "I'm still here."
        Afterward, he said of his 23 years as a trial and appellate judge: "Work is my life. I hope I die on the bench."
        Mr. Hull was a state senator from Danbury in 1970 when he was given the job of entertaining delegates at the Republican state convention while party leaders chose a candidate for lieutenant governor. He performed so well that the leaders, on returning with their recommendation, faced chants of, "We want Hull!"
        Mr. Hull was nominated, and the next November he won election as the running  mate of Gov. Thomas J. Meskill.
        In 1973, Mr. Hull resigned to accept appointment as a Superior Court judge. In 1990, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. considered him as a running mate for his independent campaign.  Mr. Hull recalled: "I said: 'I can't do it. I don't want  to be No. 2 again. It was bad enough with my dear friend Tom Meskill. But he was at least my height.' "
        Mr. Hull was 5 feet 5. Mr. Weicker is 6 feet 6.
        Mr. Hull was later appointed to the Appellate Court and, in 1987, to the high court. At his retirement, Chief Justice Ellen A. Peters praised his legal decisions and public spirit. "His enthusiasm for public office is really contagious," she said. "We all get jaded from time to time, except for Justice Hull."
        He was born in Danbury. After graduating from the Philips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire, he attended Yale, graduating in 1942. In 1948 he graduated from the Harvard University Law School. Justice Hull was elected to the State Senate  in 1962.
        In addition to his son Steven, his is survived by his wife, Betty Jane; two other sons, Josh, of Newtown, Conn., and Treat, of Toronto, and a sister, Louise, of New Hartford, Conn.
      