
        Dr. Oliver Howe Lowry, a molecular biologist whose ever more sensitive methods of measurement and analysis found wide applications in biology and medicine, died on Saturday at a nursing home in St. Louis, his hometown. He was  85.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said Washington University in St. Louis, where he was distinguished professor emeritus of molecular biology and pharmacology.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Lowry found a way of isolating, preparing, weighing and chemically studying single nerve cells and subcellular particles. He pioneered freeze-drying methods to preserve cells and invented a micro-balance that could  register less than a millionth of a gram.
        Using such micro techniques, he performed biochemical studies on minute regions of the brain, finding that cells separated by tiny distances could nevertheless be very different from one another. Expanding this research, he included kidney and muscle cells as well as mammalian embryos.
        Dr. Lowry's early paper on the measurement of protein became one of the most  frequently cited studies in scientific literature. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1957 and to the National Academy of Sciences in 1964.
        Oliver Lowry was born in Chicago, graduated from Northwestern University and  received a master's degree and a doctorate in biochemistry at the University of Chicago. He initially lectured at Harvard Medical School, where in 1939 he published his first scientific paper. He worked at the Public Health Research Institute of the City of New York from 1942 to 1947, then moved to Washington University, where he headed the department of pharmacology for the next 29 years and, in the late 1950's, was also dean of the medical school.
        Dr. Lowry is survived by his wife, Adrienne Clark Kennedy Lowry; two daughters, Susan G. Lowry of San Francisco and Dr. Emily L. Cole of Boston; three sons, Stephen R. Lowry of Oakland, Calif., Dr. Charles V. Lowry of Albany  and John H. Lowry of Alton, Ill.; two stepsons, Wade Kennedy of Boston and Dr. Burton M. Kennedy of Alameda, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Jill K. Manchester of St.  Louis; three grandchildren, and six step-grandchildren.
        His first wife, Norma Van Ness Lowry, died in 1963.
      