
        Frank Waugh McCulloch, a liberal Democrat who was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Tuesday in a hospice in Charlottesville, Va. He was 90 and a longtime resident of Charlottesville.
        In 1961, President John F. Kennedy chose Mr. McCulloch to lead the board, an  independent, five-member agency that administers labor laws. In 1970, during his second term, he was replaced as chairman by a appointee of President Richard M.  Nixon. Mr. McCulloch stayed on the board until his term ended later that year.
        In his book, "A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House," (Houghton Mifflin, 1965) Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote that the selection of Mr. McCulloch was one of a series of appointments to regulatory bodies that "expressed the theory that these agencies should respond to the public interest  rather than to the industries regulated."
        "This naturally outraged businessmen," Mr. Schlesinger continued.
        Mr. McCulloch was accustomed to controversy and skilled at making disarming remarks. To reporters, he was known to say things like "If you call me stupid, please spell it 'stooped.' "
        Yet during his years on the board, many Republicans and business groups complained that the board unduly favored unions. At a Senate hearing in 1968, he defended the panel against accusations that it ignored Congressional intent in applying labor law and deciding labor-management disputes.
        "Individually, and as a body," he said, "we strive to discharge our responsibilities under the law openly, fairly and honestly, and I neither know,  nor have I heard of, a single instance in which this has not been true."
        Later that year he declared that the board's decisions for which it had been  criticized most severely had been upheld by the Supreme Court.
        Mr. McCulloch was born on Sept. 30, 1905, in Evanston, Ill. He received a bachelor's degree from Williams College in 1926 and a law degree from Harvard in 1929. He worked in industrial relations and was a top aide to Senator Paul H. Douglas, Democrat of Illinois, before going on the board.
        After leaving the board, Mr. McCulloch taught at the University of Virginia Law School and was on committees of the International Labor Organization and the United Auto Workers.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Edith Leverton; two sons,  Frank H. 2d, of Chevy Chase, Md., and William H., of Chapel Hill, N.C., and three grandsons.
      