
        B. Gerald Cantor, who started out as a boy selling hot dogs at Yankee Stadium, became a wealthy financier and philanthropist, amassed the world's most comprehensive collection of Rodin sculpture in private hands and gave much of it away to dozens of cultural institutions, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles after a long illness. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Mr. Cantor was long prominent in financial circles as the guiding spirit of what is now Cantor Fitzgerald L.P., a New York City-based partnership that is among the biggest institutional brokers of Government securities in the United States. The firm numbers the country's largest banks and pension funds among its clients.
        Mr. Cantor, who was raised in modest circumstances in the Bronx, and his wife, Iris, who grew up three blocks from the Brooklyn Museum, came to be widely known in New York for their generosity to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum and to medical institutions in the city.
        In 1987, after Mr. Cantor had given the Brooklyn Museum more than 50 sculptures by Auguste Rodin, its director, Robert T. Buck, said, "I don't know any other person who has done so much on such a grand scale for one artist."
        One of the Cantors' projects that has become especially popular is the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Roof Garden at the Metropolitan Museum, where sculptures by Rodin and others are displayed for the public to enjoy along with a stunning vista of Central Park and its adjoining skyline.
        When the garden opened to the public in 1987, John Russell, chief art critic  for The New York Times, wrote: "It is in essence a private place, on an intimate scale. It is paved with large and generous flagstones that urge us to take it easy and head for the benches. On all four sides, the outlook is simply stupendous."
        A Strategy for Selling Hot Dogs at Ball Games
        Bernard Gerald Cantor was born on Dec. 17, 1916, the son of Julius Cantor and the former Rose Delson. His mother once said that he was a "destructive, inquisitive" little boy, who liked to break open his toys.
        Before he was 15, Bernie Cantor became a vendor at Yankee Stadium. "I only worked during Sunday doubleheaders," he recalled, because "you could sell more things" in the delay between the two games.
        He graduated from De Witt Clinton High School and went on to study law and finance at New York University from 1935 to 1937. He originally planned to become a lawyer, but he changed his mind when he spotted a lawyer friend who had had to take a job working with a pickax on a construction project of the Works Project Administration.
        Mr. Cantor switched to studying at night, and while still a teen-ager became  a securities analyst for a Wall Street firm.
        He served in the Army in the South Pacific during World War II. In 1945, he founded B. G. Cantor & Company, a securities firm. Two years later, he became a  founding partner in its successor, Cantor, Fitzgerald & Company, which was also  named for another partner, John Fitzgerald, who died two decades later.
        Cantor, Fitzgerald grew, its lines of business evolved, and Mr. Cantor became known in financial circles as a hard charger, a highly successful investor and an instinctively shrewd brokerage executive. He was also a co-owner of the Kansas City Kings of the National Basketball Association for a time; the team is now in Sacramento.
        The partnership Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. was created in 1992 through the remodeling of the business structure of its predecessor, Cantor Fitzgerald and Company. Installed as the new firm's managing general partner was not a person but a family partnership owned by the Cantors.
        On May 7, with Mr. Cantor on the sidelines, a settlement was reached in a bitter, months-long battle over the succession to his paramount role at Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. Under the settlement, the Cantors, whose joint family stake in the firm was then 48 percent, were to have that slowly reduced to a limited-partnership stake of almost 20 percent and a similar share of the firm's yearly profits.
        Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. does not make its financial results public, but a spokesman said in May that its profits had grown five-fold since 1990. The magazine Financial World has estimated that Mr. Cantor drew out roughly $50 million from the firm last year.
        The firm's president, Howard Lutnick, whom Mr. Cantor had groomed to succeed  him, has kept the heightened management role that he assumed early this year, with Mr. Cantor ailing. And Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. is obligated to keep providing support to the Cantors' charitable foundation, which has been a major  donor in the worlds of art and medicine for years.
        A 'Love Affair' With an Artist's Work
        It was while Mr. Cantor was still in his 20's, in 1945, that the budding financier began what his wife later called his "love affair with the art of Rodin."
        As he put it in a 1968 interview: "I was at the Metropolitan Museum one day and saw Rodin's 'Hand of God,' and I was fascinated by it. In 1947, I saw another version of 'Hand of God' in a Madison Avenue gallery and I bought it"; in the mid-1950's, "I bought Rodin's 'The Kiss,' and then it really started. It  brought back to me the feeling I had before."
        He described that emotion as "a source of strength, power and sensuality." Asked to elaborate, he answered: "Truthfully, I can't tell you more. Something hit me." And so, he said, after buying a cast of "The Kiss," he read up on Rodin, sought advice at the Rodin Museum in Paris and commissioned a dealer to hunt for more Rodins to buy.
        By 1968, Mr. Cantor had already come to own 84 Rodin sculptures.
        "I have to see something that I recognize, that I get a feel for," he said. "I like art that you don't have to find out why it was done."
        A decade later -- the year after his marriage to Iris Bazel in 1977 -- came the founding of the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Foundation as a vehicle for their  philanthropy.
        In 1981, when Mr. Cantor had given away about 300 Rodins and said his own collection then held from 250 to 300, he was asked whether his was the world's largest private Rodin collection. He smiled and answered: "I learned from Andre  Malraux that one never has the largest collection. One has the most important collection."
        Philippa Polskin, a spokeswoman for the Cantor family and the Cantor foundation, said yesterday that the private Rodin collection remained the world's most comprehensive collection of Rodin sculpture in private hands. She said that the total number of Rodin sculptures in the private Cantor collection  was about 300, and that the total number of Rodin sculptures that had been given away by the Cantors or the foundation over the years was more than 450.
        Ms. Polskin also said that the Cantors or the foundation had given financing  or Rodin sculptures or other works of art to about 150 cultural institutions.
        Mr. Cantor also collected prints and drawings by Rodin and Rodin memorabilia. And he collected Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and Expressionist sculptures  and paintings by other artists.
        Mr. and Mrs. Cantor became involved at the Metropolitan Museum beginning in 1986. Late that year, when Mr. Cantor's 70th birthday was celebrated with dinner and dancing at the Metropolitan, Mrs. Cantor said, "This is the only place you could possibly have a party for Bernie." By early 1994, the couple had given the museum $11.5 million.
        By 1989, Mr. Cantor was a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum and Mrs. Cantor, a trustee of the Brooklyn Museum. At a party at the Brooklyn Museum that year, she was asked whether she shared what her husband liked to call his "magnificent obsession." She replied, "I couldn't live with Bernie and not love Rodin."
        She remembered the years from 1981 to 1984, when part of the Cantor Rodin collection was displayed in a private museum beside Mr. Cantor's 105th-floor offices in the World Trade Center. "We made the Guinness Book of World Records," she said. "World's highest museum."
        Contributions by the Cantors to the more low-lying Metropolitan Museum have led to the creation not only of the roof garden but also of the B. Gerald Cantor Sculpture Gallery and of other exhibition spaces that are named for both Iris and B. Gerald Cantor: an exhibition hall and galleries for 19th-century sculpture and decorative arts.
        Savoring the ambiance of the Cantor Sculpture Gallery in 1993, Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of The New York Times, wrote, "Nowhere is the Met's  effort at the historical recreation of the 19th century more evocative than in this grand gallery."
        The couple also endowed a curatorship in the museum's department of European  sculpture and decorative arts. By early 1996, they had donated 33 Rodin sculptures to the museum. And in 1994, Cantor Fitzgerald provided money that helped the museum to reopen all its galleries to visitors full time after earlier reductions in financing had led to cutbacks.
        The Cantors liked to stroll in one of the art-display spaces named for them at the Met and elsewhere and overhear visitors discussing Rodin. At such times,  Mr. Cantor smiled to himself because, as he once put it, "Nobody knows who I am."
        By the mid-1980's, there was questioning in the art world about the quality of the Rodin casts that had been made since Jean Limet, a craftsmen who worked with Rodin, retired in the 1960's. But Mr. Cantor maintained that the quality of Rodin casts had actually risen because of his own exacting standards as a collector.
        The Brooklyn Museum has also benefited from the Cantors' largess. The couple  have repeatedly donated money, to build its 460-seat Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Auditorium, which opened to the public in 1991, and for exhibitions, scholarly publications and other works.
        Devotion to Medicine And Education
        By early this year, the Cantors had also given the Brooklyn 60 Rodin sculptures and 3 Rodin drawings, all of which went on display in its Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Gallery. In addition, Mr. Cantor has assisted the Museum of Modern Art.
        Over the years, Mr. has also given the Los Angeles County Museum of Art 52 Rodin sculptures and 4 Rodin drawings for its B. Gerald Cantor Sculpture Garden, which was set up in 1974. And he and his wife have given the museum dozens of works by 19th- and 20th-century artists including Alfred Sisley, Max Beckmann and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.
        Beyond that, Mr. and Mrs. Cantor have given the Los Angeles Museum the money  for such diverse projects as the creation of the plaza and the gallery that bear their names. The Cantors have also aided the Music Center in Los Angeles.
        Educational institutions that the couple have aided include Stanford University, to which, by early 1995, they had given 187 Rodin works -- including bronze, plaster, terra-cotta and stone sculptures -- along with much archival material concerning Rodin. By then Mr. and Mrs. Cantor had also given $10 million to the university, partly to repair damage to its art museum from the 1989 earthquake. Mr. Cantor also set up a fund at Stanford to underwrite research about Rodin, and he supported Rodin research in additional ways.
        Other Cantor assistance has gone to College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., the University of California Graduate School of Management and Cornell University.
        Institutions that the Cantors have aided in the world of medicine include New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, the medical center of the University of California at Los Angeles and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Various medical centers have been named after the couple, and Mrs. Cantor has become particularly identified with philanthropy involving breast cancer.
        Mr. Cantor was a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum from 1985 to 1990. In later years, he was an honorary trustee and a member of the visiting committee for the museum's department of European sculpture and decorative arts. He was also a life trustee of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art from 1972 to 1985 and subsequently an honorary trustee.
        The honors he received included the National Medal of Arts, which was presented to him and Mrs. Cantor by President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton in October 1995; decorations from the governments of France and Brazil, and honorary degrees from Holy Cross, Gonzaga University and Long Island University.
        As time passed, the Cantors' generosity touched the White House and Gracie Mansion. In 1994, their foundation financed an exhibition of 20th-century American sculpture, "Statues Into Sculpture," at the White House. When White House officials unveiled the redecorated Oval Office in 1993, it displayed a bronze cast of Rodin's "Thinker," which President Clinton had personally arranged to borrow from the Cantor collection.
        And in 1989, after the Cantors had lent the Rodin sculpture "The Three Shades" to Gracie Mansion, Mayor Edward I. Koch smilingly renamed that work "the Three Deputy Mayors.'
        Given the scope of his collection and his involvement with many of New York's most important cultural institutions, such activities overshadowed Mr. Cantor's  business career. But his legacy to Wall Street, and to individual investors is considerable.
        Through its involvement with Telerate, a company Mr. Cantor helped to bankroll in the early 1970's, Cantor Fitzgerald became the first firm to introduce screen-based brokerage of financial securities through the display of  real-time market information on computer screens.
        In the early 1980's, Cantor Fitzgerald became the first Wall Street firm to offer global, 24-hour electronic access to the United States Treasury securities markets, helping to create the most world's most liquid over-the-counter market.
        Before Mr. Cantor publicly starting displaying price quotes for the Treasury's notes and bonds, brokers and investors had to call primary dealers directly for quotes, with little assurance that they would be able to follow through with the sale or purchase at that price.
        A Dispute Centering On a Plan for Succession
        Donations to the Cantors' foundation by Cantor Fitzgerald L.P., amounting to  about 5 percent of the firm's profits, are expected to continue in the wake of the May 7 deal ending the succession dispute, said people with knowledge of the  terms and of the firm's past giving to the foundation.
        The dispute began early this year, after Mr. Cantor, already ill, suffered complications. Mr. Lutwick, who had been supervising the firm's day-to-day business, went ahead and carried out the previously agreed-upon succession, assuming the title and prerogatives of managing general partner, which had previously been held by Mr. and Mrs. Cantor through their family partnership.
        Mrs. Cantor complained that Mr. Lutwick's measure was premature, did not follow steps set out in the plan and stripped the Cantor family of its rights. Prolonged quarreling ensued, and in March Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. filed suit against the family partnership to enforce the plan.
        Then came the settlement. People with knowledge of its details said the reduction of the Cantor family's holding in Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. would be achieved by converting the pre-settlement stake into two categories of limited-partnership shares. One category was to amount to almost 20 percent of the firm and of its profits. The other category was to be bought back by other Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. partners over seven years.
        Mr. Cantor's first marriage, to Leona Witzel, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Jay, of Manhattan, from his first marriage.
      