
        Leon Shenandoah, the head of the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, died yesterday at Syracuse University Hospital after a long illness. He was 81.
        Mr. Shenandoah, who opposed Indians' involvement in gambling to raise money,  lived most of his life on the Onondaga Nation reservation, just south of Syracuse. He was the longtime leader of the Onondagas and in 1969 was chosen as  chief of chiefs, or Tadadaho, of the confederacy, which consists of the Onondagas, Cayugas, Oneidas, Mohawks, Senecas and Tuscaroras.
        The position of Tadadaho, which made him spiritual and political spokesman for his people, is of immense importance to members of the six nations, who believe it can be traced back to the time of Hiawatha, architect of the "Great Peace" that formed the confederacy hundreds of years before white people set foot in North America.
        Before the arrival of Columbus, the Iroquois were a mighty power, dominating  the vast reaches from the Atlantic Ocean to the Mississippi River. Today, there  are about 65,000 Iroquois on reservations in New York, Wisconsin, Ontario and Quebec, including the roughly 1,000 who live on the 7,000-acre Onondaga Nation reservation.
        As Tadadaho, Mr. Shenandoah officiated at weddings, funerals and other sacred ceremonies. His religious convictions, which included belief in a supreme being, judgment day and eternal life, resembled the tenets of Christianity in some ways, but he also insisted that Western society had been ruined by pollution and greed.
        Accordingly, he argued against Indian involvement in gambling casinos. And in 1987, he and the other chiefs decreed that Fourth of July fireworks would no longer be sold from roadside stands in the reservation. "We decided that it's not really our way," Mr. Shenandoah explained, adding, "It's not really independence for us."
        In 1983, Mr. Shenandoah defied the Federal Government and provided sanctuary  for Dennis Banks, co-founder of the American Indian Movement who was a fugitive  for a time after his conviction in South Dakota in 1975 on charges of rioting and assault in connection with a fight with a police officer.
        "We are a separate nation and intend to govern our affairs without outside interference," Mr. Shenandoah said, asserting that he would not recognize the validity of a warrant for Mr. Banks's arrest on the reservation.
        In 1992, Mr. Shenandoah participated in the World Conference of Indigenous Peoples in Rio de Janeiro, where he and Amazon Indian leaders shared tobacco, corn, prayers and suggestions on how to deal with white politicians.
        Survivors include his wife, Thelma; six sons, Leon Jr., Duane, Raymond, Irwin, Gary and Jerome; a daughter, Lorie; a brother, Edward; two sisters, Alice Papineau and Phoebe Hill, all of the Onondaga Nation; 34 grandchildren, and 20 great grandchildren.
      