
        The Rev. Lawrence Martin Jenco, the Roman Catholic priest who was held hostage in Lebanon by Islamic radicals for 18 months in the 1980's, died on Friday. He was 61.
        Father Jenco had been undergoing chemotherapy for pancreatic and lung cancer. He died at St. Domitilla Church in the suburb of Hillside, where he was an associate pastor.
        He was the head of Catholic Relief Services in Beirut when members of the radical group Islamic Holy War snatched him from a city street on Jan. 8, 1985,  while he was on his way to work. He was freed on July 26, 1986, after months of  negotiations involving the Reagan Administration, Shiite radicals and the Anglican envoy Terry Waite.
        In 1995, Father Jenco wrote a book on his ordeal, "Bound to Forgive -- the Pilgrimage to Reconciliation of a Beirut Hostage."
        He described his months of captivity as boring, though for most of his time in captivity he shared a 12-by-15-foot room with three others: Terry A. Anderson, the former chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press; David Jacobsen, the administrator of the American University Hospital in Beirut, and Thomas Sutherland, the university's acting dean of agriculture.
        The Rev. Benjamin Weir, a Presbyterian minister, was released two months after Father Jenco's kidnapping.
        In his book, Father Jenco wrote he held no animosity toward those who held him captive for 594 days. Instead, he said he wanted to return to Lebanon to visit the men who guarded him, sometimes brutally, sometimes gently.
        "I don't believe that forgetting is one of the signs of forgiveness," he wrote. "I forgive, but I remember. I do not forget the pain, the loneliness, the ache, the terrible injustice. But I do not remember to inflict some future retribution."
        Father Jenco also described how he spent six months in solitary confinement.  Three times he was told that he was about to be released, only to learn hours later it was a joke.
        He kept track of time by marking days with saliva in the dust of his prison walls, marking months with knots in a potato sack.
        The priest recounted the day his captors laced his body with explosives. Another time he saw a chain suspended from a ceiling and thought he was about to die.
        While his faith never waivered, he said he once he told God: "I'm not Job. I  want to go home now."
        Lawrence Martin Jenco was born in Joliet, Ill., on Nov. 27, 1934. He studied  at Mount Carmel College in Canada and the St. Joseph Seminary in St. Charles, Ill., and in Rome when he was ordained to the priesthood in 1959.
        Father Jenco's ministry revolved around social service, working with the poor, the mentally ill and physically handicapped in several countries, including Yemen, Thailand and India before going to Beirut in 1984.
        After his release from captivity, he spent time with his family in Joliet before becoming campus minister at the University of Southern California. He also spent time assigned to the Servite Order's formation community in Berkeley, Calif.
        Father Jenco is survived by two brothers, Richard Jenco of Joliet, Ill., and  Joseph Jenco of Florida, and two sisters, Betty Blair and Susan Franceschini, both of Joliet.
      