
        Daniel J. Terra, an American businessman and art collector who founded two museums of American art, one in Giverny, France, and the other in Illinois, died on Friday at a hospital in Washington. He was 85 and had homes in Chicago, Washington and Vernon, in northwestern France.
        He died of complications following a heart attack, said his wife, Judith.
        At his death, he was chairman of Lawter International -- based in Northbrook, a suburb of Chicago -- which produces printing chemicals and ink. He stepped down as the company's chief executive officer in January. In recent months, he spent much of his time overseeing activities of his foundation, Terra Foundation for the Arts, which operates his two museums, holds title to numerous art works, and carries out philanthropies, mainly in the arts and education.
        Earlier, Mr. Terra was finance chairman of Ronald Reagan's 80 Presidential campaign and became the first -- and only -- United States ambassador-at-large for cultural affairs, serving in that post throughout the Reagan Administration.
        Mr. Terra, in collaboration with his wife, was an avid collector of American  paintings, largely by 19th- and early-20th-century artists. In 1982, when he paid $3.25 million to buy an 1832 painting, "The Gallery of the Louvre," by Samuel F. B. Morse -- who was a noted artist before he invented the Morse code and the telegraph -- Mr. Terra said, "We read so much about our industrial and economic development over the last 150 years, but I think that our cultural development is just as great."
        American art experts have said that it was Mr. Terra who was the buyer, at a  Christie's auction in May in Manhattan, of "In the Box" (about 1879), a painting by Mary Cassatt; and of "Paradise Garden" (1866-68), a painting by another American artist, John La Farge. The Cassatt went for $4 million, a record price  for an oil by that artist. The La Farge brought $2.2 million, another record. But Christie's has not confirmed that Mr. Terra was in fact the buyer of the two works.
        In 1992 the Terras opened the Museum of American Art in Giverny. The Norman village of Giverny, along the Seine, is where Monet dwelled and painted for four decades until he died in 1926. The scores of paintings on regular display in the museum are mostly by American Impressionist artists.
        Mr. Terra collected, among other works, paintings by American Impressionist artists who admired Monet and flocked to Giverny while the French master was there. Mr. Terra was encouraged in his art collecting by his first wife, the former Adeline Evans Richards, who died in 198, after four decades of marriage. She collected chiefly 18th- and 19th-century British landscape paintings.
        The museum in Giverny is a low-lying limestone structure down the street from Monet's home and its gardens, which appear in many paintings. A nearby house and garden used in the 1890's by Lila Cabot Perry, a painter from Boston, are being restored by the foundation.
        Mr. Terra set up Terra Foundation for the Arts some years after the opening of the other museum he founded, Terra Museum of American Art. That institution was opened in 1980 in Evanston, Ill., another Chicago suburb, and was moved in 1987 to Chicago. The art works on regular display in the Chicago museum are all  by American artists, and most of them are from the 19th and the early 20th century.
        Mr. Terra was born and grew up in Philadelphia. His father, Louis J. Terra, ran a lithography plant in Philadelphia, and his mother, the former Mary DeLuca, was a dancer. He received a bachelor's degree in 1931 from Pennsylvania State University and moved to Chicago as a young man.
        In 1940, Daniel Terra borrowed $2,500 to start what is now Lawter International. He went on to become a close friend of President Reagan and to play a substantial role in forming the Reagan Administration's attitude toward the arts and humanities.
        The honors Mr. Terra received included decorations from the Governments of France and Belgium. He was also honored by the National Endowment for the Arts.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1986, he is survived by a son, James, of Grayslake, Ill.; a stepson, Andrew Banks of Hamilton, Bermuda; a stepdaughter, Lisa Leiser-Banks of Lake Forest, Ill., and three grandchildren.
      