
        I. D. Robbins, a civic reformer and builder whose vision of low-cost single-family homes became reality for thousands of families in once-blighted areas of Brooklyn and the Bronx, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Long a prominent figure in the life of the city, as president of the City Club, as a newspaper columnist and as a commentator on politics, housing, minimum wage and civil rights, Mr. Robbins was best known as the father of the Nehemiah housing plan.
        The plan was named by Johnny Ray Youngblood, a popular East New York Baptist minister, for the Old Testament prophet sent by the King of Persia to Jerusalem  in 420 B.C. to help rebuild the city after the Babylonian captivity.
        But long before the name came the idea. Mr. Robbins, in his 70's -- an age when most people have retired -- was writing a weekly column on public affairs for The Daily News.
        As a successful builder, he was convinced that good single-family homes -- the simple row houses that were the original house of Eastern big cities -- could be constructed in New York at half the prevailing cost.
        "What you need to do is build new neighborhoods, and high density will never  give you a neighborhood," Mr. Robbins said, referring to the customary government-subsidized housing projects. "Single-family is the way to go, because families take pride in their homes."
        Mr. Robbins figured that with 25 percent of its annual income, a family earning $20,000 a year could carry a mortgage and own one of the homes he envisioned at a cost of $40,000 or so.
        Mr. Robbins persuaded the editor of The Daily News to let him present his idea in the paper's Sunday magazine. When the five pages appeared, with floor plans and architectural renderings, thousands of enthusiastic letters poured in.
        One letter, from the Industrial Areas Foundation, established by the Chicago  housing advocate Saul Alinsky, asked if Mr. Robbins was willing to put his theory into practice. With the help of the foundation, 36 congregations banded together in an ecumenical effort called East Brooklyn Churches, and an $8 million revolving fund for construction was raised.
        So without Federal assistance, on Oct. 31, 1982, ground was broken in Brownsville for the first Nehemiah home: a three-bedroom, brick town house that  sold for $39,000.
        "This is what people want," Mr. Robbins said as he showed off the model houses in 1983. "They come around here and they weep for these houses."
        Using high-volume techniques established on Long Island at the end of World War II by the Levitt family, the Nehemiah homes rose on large tracts of cleared, city-owned land, like suburbs within the city. Foundations were poured for whole blocks at a time. The dwellings would win no architectural competitions, but they were efficient: 18 feet wide and 32 feet deep, with 1,500 square feet of living space, front and rear yards and full basements.
        To cut costs further, Mr. Robbins persuaded city officials to allow him to link all his sewer connections to one pipe instead of connecting each home to the sewer line. This enabled him to make a single cut to the existing sewers, saving about $6,000 a house. He used prefabricated components, from roof trusses to window frames, to speed construction and reduce costs.
        And best of all, he held what builders call the soft costs -- the legal, architectural and financing charges needed to make housing a reality -- to 6 percent of the total, instead of the usual 35 percent or so.
        Roughly 40 percent of the first 1,000 buyers came from nearby public housing  projects.
        Other Nehemiah houses went up in East New York and the South Bronx, and eventually 2,800 families realized the dream Mr. Robbins had had for them.
        But despite interest from all over the country, Mr. Robbins's plans to expand the program into the South Bronx and the Arverne section of the Rockaways encountered political opposition. Clear blocks became unavailable; communities bristled at the idea of outside developers.
        In an article he wrote for the summer issue of The Real Estate Finance Journal not long before his death, Mr. Robbins said: "Why do public officials seem to favor market-cost housing over the same housing at half of market cost?  There are probably as many reasons as there are political and personal motivations. Those with political power may not like the sponsors, or they prefer to pick the brokers, lawyers, developers, contractors, architect or sales staff or want to be able to designate builders who are willing to let them choose the buyers.
        "Above everything else, politicians insist on their major prerogative, the absolute control of the land, what should be used, how it should be used and who gets to use it."
        I. D. Robbins was born in Pittsburgh on Dec. 1, 1910. To the end, there remained some question about what the I. D. stood for. According to Mr. Robbins's son Anthony, Mr. Robbins said he was named Isaac David, but when someone said to his parents, "Why are you calling him Isaac? Call him Irving," he spent his childhood as Irving, although he said his birth certificate was never changed. In any event, he spent his adult life as I. D., and friends called him that or Robby.
        Mr. Robbins studied for a time at the University of Pittsburgh and moved to New York in 1933. In the years that followed, he was, among other things, a reporter for Hearst's Evening Journal and a public relations representative.
        In 1948, he joined his cousin Lester Robbins, a New Jersey builder who was putting up more than a thousand houses a year. Mr. Robbins took charge of sales, financing and mortgages before branching out into construction.
        His major projects included the Big Six Towers, built for New York Typographical Union No. 6 in Woodside, Queens, and comprising housing for a thousand families and a shopping center. He also built the 37-acre refrigerated  complex that became the city's principal meat, provisions and poultry distribution center at the Hunts Point Cooperative Market in the Bronx.
        As president of the nonpartisan City Club of New York, Mr. Robbins, an independent Democrat, revitalized the good-government organization after World II with his writings in its monthly newsletter, City Club Comments.
        In 1965, he resigned as president of the City Club and sought the Republican  and Democratic nominations for Mayor, but he stepped aside in favor of John V. Lindsay, who ended the 12-year tenure of Robert F. Wagner.
        Mr. Robbins is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Carolyn Marx; two sons, Anthony, of Boston, and John, of Sacramento, Calif.; two sisters, Dorothy  Good and Madlynne Harris, both of Pittsburgh, and four grandchildren.
      