
        William J. Caunitz, a writer who drew on his experiences as a New York City policeman in "One Police Plaza" and other thrillers, died on Saturday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 63 and lived in Longboat Key, Fla.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Knox Burger, his agent.
        Mr. Caunitz was born in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn and graduated from  Erasmus Hall High School. He served in the Marine Corps from 1949 to 1953.
        He became a policeman in 1955 and was promoted to the rank of detective sergeant in 1967, lieutenant in 1971 and detective squad commander in 1974.
        While a policeman, he earned a bachelor's degree from City College after taking courses on and off for 19 years. In 1972, he received a master's degree in history from Hofstra University.
        In 1974, Mr. Caunitz happened to meet Tony Godwin, the editor in chiefof Harcourt Brace, who was intrigued by his stories of the police force and urged him to set them down on paper. For the next decade, while working a prostitution detail in Queens by night, he wrote and rewrote "One Police Plaza," about a middle-aged New York City policeman who investigates a murder and uncovers a conspiracy involving the Israeli security services, Muslim extremists and high-ranking officers of the police department.
        The book, a best seller, was made into a 1986 CBS television film starring Robert Conrad, and a film sequel, "The Red Spider" (1988).
        Mr. Caunitz retired from the police force in 1984 and turned to writing full  time. His other novels were "Suspects" (1986), "Black Sand" (1989), "Exceptional Clearance" (1991), "Cleopatra Gold" (1993) and "Pigtown" (1995).
        Reviewing "Suspects," a critic in The New York Times Book Review wrote: "The  author's prose is not Joseph Wambaugh's, but his knowledge of life inside an urban police force is extraordinary, and his detailed word pictures of ballistics tests, fingerprint techniques and department stag parties make this arcane blue world come alive."
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia Reddington Caunitz; a sister, Barbara Burke of Delray Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Beth Budofsky of Manhattan, and Katherine Herer of Smithtown, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      