
        Chris Komar, assistant artistic director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and a leading Cunningham dancer, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, said Art Becofsky, his companion.
        Mr. Komar was a small, slightly built dancer with a big jump and an unfailingly serious demeanor. He stood out for his terse way of moving and the clarity of thought and physical attack that he brought to Mr. Cunningham's choreography. He became intrigued with the Cunningham repertory and style early  in his dance training and remained a devotee, commenting eloquently on the dances over the years.
        "I remember seeing Merce's 'Second Hand' in college," Mr. Komar said in 1980. "When it was over, it was as if no time had elapsed, but I had an incredible sense of experience, almost like meditating, or dreaming while you are asleep."
        In the dances, he said, "you have the experience of something present, but everything happening at the same time: past, present and future."
        "It's like all the disparate elements of a Rauschenberg collage, or a quilt," he said. "A quilt made up of time."
        Mr. Komar was born in Milwaukee, and became interested in dance through dancing to rock-and-roll music with his sister. He trained in dance at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he received a bachelor's degree in dance and also taught. He was a founding member of the Milwaukee Ballet Company.
        Mr. Komar joined the Cunningham troupe in 1972, creating roles in more than 45 dances by Mr. Cunningham. He retired from the stage in 1993, but continued to work with the company in a variety of jobs until his death.
        Mr. Komar began teaching at the Cunningham studio in 1973, and was Mr. Cunningham's assistant, helping with repertory workshops throughout the United States and Europe and eventually teaching workshops as well. He staged Cunningham dances for companies around the world, among them the Theatre du Silence in France, the Ohio Ballet, American Ballet Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet and Mikhail Baryshnikov's White Oak Dance Project.
        He also produced and served as the host for "Rhythms in Space," a cable television show, in 1982. He received a Bessie Award for service to dance in 1991. Mr. Komar was the director of the Repertory Understudy Group of the Cunningham Dance Foundation, a training ensemble for potential company members and a laboratory for revivals of Cunningham dances. Mr. Komar's stagings for the group included "Septet," "Summerspace," "Rune," "Exchange" and "Fielding Sixes."
        At the time of his death, he was working on a book of Mr. Cunningham's combinations of classroom steps, which Mr. Komar had been transcribing into dance notation since 1986.
        In addition to Mr. Becofsky, he is survived by his mother, Pearl Graef; two sisters, Norma Sue Komar and Eunice Weber, and three brothers, Joseph Jr., Charles and James, all of the Milwaukee area.
      