
        Douglas G. Chapman, an expert on wildlife statistics who became especially influential and outspoken in the field of whale conservation, died on Tuesday in Seattle. He was 76 and a longtime resident of Seattle.
        His health had been deteriorating in the past year, said Jeff Breiwick, a former student.
        Dr. Chapman's Ph.D. was in mathematical statistics from the University of California at Berkeley. From 1960 to 1964, while he was professor of mathematics at the University of Washington, he worked on an International Whaling Commission's panel that found new methods to calculate whaling quotas.
        In an interview yesterday, another scientist on the panel, Dr. Sidney J. Holt, a British fisheries biologist, recalled that in 1960, the commission "couldn't get agreement on scientific advice they had received about the conservation of some whale populations in Antarctic waters."
        This led the group "to analyse the whaling data -- catches, the number of whaling boats and so on -- and to come up with proposals for annual quotas for fin whales."
        Dr. Holt said the panel's report, in 1961, was the commission's first attempt to come up with quotas that would permit whaling while allowing the whale population to increase.
        The three scientists on the panel -- the third was K. Radway Allen, an Australian biologist -- were selected because they specialized in fisheries research but were not officially connected with Norway, the Soviet Union, the Netherlands, Japan and Britain, the countries conducting the whaling they were to study.
        "The deal that was made when the Committee of Three was established was that  the whaling countries would act on our recommendations, and they wouldn't argue," Dr. Holt recalled. "But in fact they did argue. We did calculations which had never been seen before in that kind of context. And the quotas we recommended were so much lower that of course they argued for many years, and eventually they had to lower the quotas."
        But first, Dr. Holt said, they whaling counntries "adopted interim, compromise quotas which were higher than we wanted."
        "But eventually they had to practically stop," he added, "because they couldn't even catch the small quotas that we had recommended. The fin-whale industry collapsed during the late 1960's for lack of whales."
        Dr. Chapman, who was born in Provost, Alberta, joined the University of Washington faculty in 1949 and retired in 1984 as a professor in the university's School of Fisheries.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Isobel Marguerite Tuero; three daughters, Patricia Levine and Sheila Chapman, both of Seattle, and Christine Chapman Schueler of Olympia, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      