
        Ken Norton, the head coach at Manhattan College during the golden age of New  York-area college basketball, died last Thursday at his summer home in Hendersonville, N.C. He was 82 years old.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, according to the Manhattan College sports information office, which announced the death yesterday.
        In his 22 seasons as the Jaspers' head coach, from 1946-68, Mr. Norton's teams had a 310-205 won-lost record that made Mr. Norton the top-winning coach in school history.
        His 1952-53 team went 20-6 and advanced to the semifinals of the National Invitation Tournament, which at the time had more prestige than the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. Manhattan's 1956-57 squad became the first New York team to win the Holiday Festival at Madison Square Garden.
        But perhaps Mr. Norton's most gratifying feat was achieved by his unheralded  1957-58 squad, which finished the regular season at 15-8. That team qualified for the N.C.A.A. tournament, then upset top-ranked West Virginia Mountaineers in the first round, 89-84, before bowing to Dartmouth in Round 2. It was 25 years before Manhattan would play in the N.C.A.A. tournament again.
        In all, Mr. Norton's teams appeared in two N.C.A.A. tournaments and six N.I.T.'s. After relinquishing his coaching duties with the basketball team, Mr.  Norton, who also coached baseball and golf at Manhattan, stayed on as the school's athletic director until his retirement in 1979.
        Mr. Norton, who played baseball and basketball at Long Island University, succeeded John (Honey) Russell as basketball coach at Manhattan in 1947. Along with Mr. Russell, Mr. Norton's legendary peers among New York-area coaches included Nat Holman at City College, Clair Bee at L.I.U., Howie Cann at New York University and Joe Lapchick and Frank McGuire at St. John's.
        Those were days after World War II when college basketball peaked in the metropolitan area and doubleheaders sold out at the Garden.
        But those heady days were ended by sellouts of another kind -- the point-shaving scandals that rocked the city and the nation in the early 1950's.  It was one of Mr. Norton's players at Manhattan, Junius Kellogg, who helped initiate the investigation that led to the uncovering of the scandal. Mr. Kellogg reported a bribe attempt to his coach and later helped trap the potential fixers during the 1950-51 season.
        Mr. Norton is survived by his wife, Dorothy.
      