
        Hamilton Fish Jr., a New York Republican from an old Hudson River family who  continued its tradition of Congressional service into the fourth generation, holding a House seat from 1969 to 1994, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 70 and also had a home in Millbrook, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, also named Hamilton. Representative Fish  underwent surgery for lung cancer and treatment for prostate cancer in 1994. In  anticipation of that he announced then that he would not seek re-election to a 14th term, saying that although he enjoyed a fight, he was retiring "in fairness to everyone." He had been a heavy smoker.
        Representative Fish was the son of Hamilton Fish Sr., a Republican New York  Congressman from 1920 to 1944. He died in 1991 at age 102. Hamilton Fish Sr. was a conservative who opposed American involvement in World War II until Pearl Harbor. During the 1940 Presidential campaign, he and two other Republican isolationists were often denounced sneeringly -- and memorably -- by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt as "Martin, Barton and Fish."
        Hamilton Fish Jr. was a moderate Republican who embodied the centrist views of his mid-Hudson Valley constituency. At the start of his time in the House, his district comprised all or parts of Schoharie, Greene, Ulster, Columbia, Otsego and Dutchess counties. Later the district's boundaries were revised three times, and when he retired, it included most of Dutchess County, all of Putnam County and portions of Westchester and Orange counties.
        He was first elected in 1968, after whipping G. Gordon Liddy, the future Watergate burglar, in the Republican primary.
        Mr. Fish's chief legislative efforts were in civil rights and other domestic  issues. He was also an outspoken advocate for human rights and worked on behalf  of Soviet Jews to change immigration laws. He was considered a major figure in the passage of legislation like the 1982 Voting Rights Act extension, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, which  provided monetary damages for women and minorities in cases of intentional employment discrimination.
        At the time of his retirement, Ralph G. Neas, who was executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, said: "For all these years, Ham Fish  has been the Republican leader in the House on civil rights. He has a record that's legendary." Mr. Neas said that many of the almost two dozen civil rights  bills passed in the 1980's would not have become law without him.
        Yesterday, Democratic Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York said in a statement: "Some members of Congress uphold standards; some set them. Ham Fish was of this latter, smaller class, continuing a family tradition of two centuries. Let the Hudson Valley echo his praise."
        Representative Fish's stance on civil rights issues earned him warm praise and awards from organizations representing minorities and denunciations by conservative fellow Republicans for his support of what they believed were racial quotas.
        He became the senior member of the New York Congressional delegation and the  senior Republican on the House Judiciary Committee.
        Endowed with a streak of political independence that has run for nearly two centuries in the Fish family, Representative Fish won notoriety in 1974, when he voted for the resolution to impeach the Republican President, Richard M. Nixon.
        The first political Fish, Nicholas, fought in the American Revolution and then ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1800 on the Federalist ticket. In 1842,  Representative Fish's great grandfather, the first Hamilton, was elected to Congress on the Whig ticket and subsequently was elected Governor of New York and to the Senate. He served later as Secretary of State to President Ulysses S. Grant. His grandfather, still another Hamilton, was also elected to Congress.
        Representative Fish's liberal son Hamilton, a former publisher of The Nation  magazine, continued the streak of independence in 1994 by running for Congress in Westchester as a Democrat and losing. That Hamilton Fish said yesterday that  the succession of four Hamilton Fishes who were members of Congress from the mid-Hudson Valley was unique in American political history.
        Hamilton Fish Jr. was born on June 3, 1926, in Washington, where his father had already been a Congressman for six years. After service in the Navy in World War II in the Pacific he graduated from Harvard in 1949, and went on to join the Foreign Service, which posted him briefly to Dublin. He returned to study law at New York University and practiced law in New York until he was elected to Congress.
        He married his first wife, Julia Mackenzie, in 1951, and she died in 1969. He married Billy Laster Cline in 1971, and she died in 1985. In 1988, Mr. Fish married the former Mary Ann Tinklepaugh, a deputy assistant secretary of commerce in the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
        In addition to his wife and his son Hamilton, who lives in Garrison, N.Y., Mr. Fish is survived by three children by his first wife, a daughter, Alexa Fish Ward of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and two sons, Nicholas Stuyvesant Fish of Manhattan, a Democrat who is chairman of Manhattan Community Board 5, and Peter Livingston  Fish of Great Barrington, Mass.; eight grandchildren and a sister, Zevah Perry of Princeton, N.J.
        A funeral is to be held at 2 P.M. Saturday on the grounds of the United States Military Academy at West Point, N.Y. Burial will be private.
      