
        William T. Cahill, who as the Governor of New Jersey from 1970 to 1974, brought the New York Giants to New Jersey but was undone politically by scandals involving trusted friends and by opposition to his tax proposals, died yesterday at a daughter's house in Haddonfield, N.J. He was 84.
        Mr. Cahill died of peripheral vascular disease, said a spokeswoman for his law firm, Diane Bedwell
        A moderate Republican, he was elected in 1969 by more than a half-million votes over Robert B. Meyner, a former Democratic governor who was attempting a comeback after two terms of another Democrat, Gov. Richard J. Hughes. Mr. Cahill's landslide was one of the biggest in the state's history, and he had a Republican-led Legislature to work with.
        His term was marked by passage of a rise in the sales tax to 5 percent, from  3 percent, that Mr. Cahill insisted was desperately needed; by environmental-protection measures, including stricter automobile emission standards, and by several consumer-oriented programs, including no-fault automobile insurance.
        He was instrumental in persuading the New York Giants to leave Yankee Stadium and play football in a stadium to be built in the Hackensack Meadowlands. He also successfully pushed for a state lottery.
        But he lost a battle to impose a state income tax. He went directly to the voters with a proposal for the tax, which had been recommended by a commission he had appointed. But the voters were not ready, and the bill was defeated in July 1972. The tax was approved four years later.
        On Thanksgiving Day 1971, a riot at Rahway State Prison was quelled without bloodshed. Mr. Cahill was praised for his leadership during the crisis, which occurred just two months after the bloody Attica prison uprising in New York state.
        Mr. Cahill was viewed as such a successful governor and formidable vote-getter (labor leaders seemed comfortable with his politics, and he did better than many Republicans among blue-collar workers) that some liberal Republicans suggested him as a running mate for President Richard M. Nixon in 1972.
        Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican, said she was saddened when she learned of Mr. Cahill's death. "He will be remembered for his dedication to the  cause of tax reform and for setting in motion the state's involvement in the development of the Meadowlands sports complex," she said.
        Brendan T. Byrne, who succeeded Mr. Cahill as Governor, said today: "I have often said that Bill Cahill is the most underrated Governor in our time. He pioneered reforms in education, taxes and land use and was a personal inspiration to me."
        Mr. Cahill's political descent was so precipitous that he became the first incumbent governor in New Jersey history to be denied renomination by his party. In a way, his own views contributed to his undoing.
        In the 1969 campaign, he had pledged to fight corruption and organized crime  and erase New Jersey's reputation as a swampland of shabby politics. In his inaugural address, he vowed to "search out the corrupters and the corrupt, wherever they exist."
        Investigators would later say -- and juries would agree -- that they existed  right under Mr. Cahill's nose.
        The New Jersey Secretary of State, Paul J. Sherwin, was convicted in 1972 of  trying to fix a $600,000 state highway contract for a contractor who then kicked back $10,000 to Republican fund-raisers with close ties to Mr. Cahill. Mr. Sherwin had been his principal aide when Mr. Cahill was a Congressman from the Camden area in the 1950's and 1960's.
        There was more. Nelson G. Gross, who as Republican state chairman helped secure the nomination for Mr. Cahill, and Joseph M. McCrane, who was Mr. Cahill's campaign finance chairman in 1969 and became State Treasurer, were accused in April 1973 (and convicted in 1974) of illegally masking contributions to the Cahill campaign as tax deductions.
        While investigators stressed that they had uncovered no wrongdoing by Mr. Cahill himself, the Governor was decisively beaten in the 1973 Republican primary by Representative Charles W. Sandman Jr., a South Jersey conservative who was crushed in the general election by Mr. Byrne, a Democrat. After leaving  office, Mr. Cahill practiced law and taught at Princeton University.
        Mr. Cahill, the son of Irish immigrants, was born in Philadelphia. His family moved to Camden when he was a boy, and he was an outstanding baseball and basketball player at Camden Catholic High School. Mr. Cahill graduated from St.  Joseph's College in Philadelphia in 1929. He taught school in Camden during the  day and attended Rutgers Law School at night, graduating in 1937.
        Mr. Cahill was an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a short  time after law school. In the 1940's, he was a prosecutor in Camden County for several years, and in the early 1950's was a special deputy attorney general who investigated organized gambling in Bergen County. He served a two-year term  in the State Assembly before being elected to Congress in 1958.
        His wife of 50 years, Elizabeth Myrtetus, died in 1991, and a daughter, Patricia, died in 1987.
        Surviving are five daughters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary E. Cahill of Chevy Chase, Md., Regina Blake Keeley of Potomac, Md., Teresa Cahill Costas of Boston and Eileen Campbell of Haddonfield; two sons, William T. Jr., of Collingswood, N.J., and John P., of Haddonfield, and 13 grandchildren.
        The funeral will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at Christ the King Roman Catholic Church in Haddonfield.
      