
        Clyde E. Wiegand, a physicist who helped to detonate the first atomic bomb but suffered a crushing disappointment a decade later when he missed out on a Nobel Prize for helping discover a new atomic particle, died on Friday at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 81.
        Dr. Wiegand had prostate cancer, said Lynn Yarris, a spokesman at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif., where Dr. Wiegand worked for 38 years.
        In 1955, experiments conducted by Emilio Segre, Owen Chamberlain and Dr. Wiegand proved the existence of the antiproton, or negative proton, until then considered the missing link of the incredibly tiny world of the atom. For a quarter-century, the world's top physicists had been haunted by this "nuclear ghost," whose existence had been postulated but never established.
        Using the most powerful atomic crucible then in existence, a doughnut-shaped  device called a bevatron, the scientists hurled atomic "bullets" at the nuclei of copper atoms. The "bullets" were positively charged hydrogen protons whose energy had been raised to six billion volts after being spun around and around.
        When the hydrogen protons struck the negatively charged neutrons in the copper atoms, new matter emerged in pairs: a positive proton and its negative "mirror image," the antiproton.
        While the discovery could be understood only by an elite community of physicists, it was considered a giant step toward understanding the very nature of matter and existence and reaffirmed scientists' faith in the basic symmetry of nature.
        Dr. Segre and Dr. Chamberlain were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1959, and some scientists were surprised when Dr. Wiegand was not honored with them.
        Dr. Segre died some years ago. Dr. Chamberlain, who lived just down the street from Dr. Wiegand and took frequent walks with his colleague, said yesterday that he thought Dr. Wiegand should have shared in the Nobel. "It would have been completely right," Dr. Chamberlain said in a telephone interview. "Three names instead of two.
        "He was unequaled in his ability to put together an experiment and make it work," Dr. Chamberlain said. "He frequently opened my eyes to new experimental possibilities."
        Dr. Wiegand's wife of 49 years, Della, said that her husband had been "terribly, terribly hurt" by not sharing in the award, but that he had refused to let it sour him because "he didn't want to be burdened by being bitter."
        Dr. Wiegand was not the only scientist who felt snubbed. Oreste Piccioni, an  associate of Dr. Chamberlain and Dr. Segre, later asserted in a lawsuit filed in a California court that his role in the discovery of the antiproton had been overlooked.
        Although he had acknowledged Dr. Piccioni's work in his Nobel-acceptance speech, Dr. Chamberlain said later that it was not absolutely essential to the experiment. The suit was eventually dismissed on procedural grounds.
        Dr. Wiegand was a member of the Manhattan Project and was a designer of the detonators for the first atomic device. Years later, he would recall crouching in a trench in the New Mexico desert on the early morning of July 16, 1945. When the bomb lit up the sky, he fell down, not from the force of the blast but because he simply could not believe its power.
        Born in Long Beach, Wash., Dr. Wiegand (pronounced WEE-gand) graduated from Willamette University in Salem, Ore., in 1940. He received his doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1950. (The Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory is financed by the United States Department of Energy and maintained by the University of California.)
        After retiring from the Berkeley lab in 1980, Dr. Wiegand developed an electronic cooling system for low-temperature X-ray detectors.
        Dr. Wiegand traveled widely, was a pilot and mountain climber and loved music and baseball. He grew apricots and boysenberries, which he canned for relatives, friends and colleagues.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Arthur of Denver and Gary of Carmel, Calif., and a daughter, Jeanne, of Pinole, Calif.
      