
        Hector Perez Garcia, a South Texas doctor who founded one of the nation's most influential Mexican-American civil rights organizations, died on Friday in  Memorial Medical Center in Corpus Christi, Tex.
        Dr. Garcia, who was 82, had stomach cancer for more than a decade and had been hospitalized for several months. He died of pneumonia and congestive heart  failure.
        Dr. Garcia founded the American G.I. Forum in 1948 to help Mexican-American  veterans of World War II gain access to services of the Veterans Administration  and admission to V.A. hospitals. After the war, he had found that many were being turned away, in part because they did not know how to apply for benefits and also because there were few people willing to help them gain assistance. Today, the American G.I. Forum has nearly 160,000 members in 502 chapters in 24  states.
        Dr. Garcia's organization first gained widespread attention in 1949, when it  took up the cause of Army Pvt. Felix Longoria, a native of the small South Texas town of Three Rivers whose remains were returned from Luzon, in the Philippines, for burial four years after World War II ended. Mr. Longoria's widow, Beatriz, had been denied use of a hometown funeral chapel because the Longorias were Mexican-American. "The Anglo people would not stand for it," she was told.
        After several stories about Dr. Garcia's efforts were published, Lyndon B. Johnson, then a United States Senator, arranged for Mr. Longoria to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors.
        The G.I. Forum continued to be involved in Hispanic civil rights issues like  school desegregation and jury representation. "We desegregated hospitals and swimming pools and schools all over South Texas," recalled Tony Canales, Dr. Garcia's nephew and a former United States Attorney.
        In a case brought by the G.I. Forum and the League of United Latin American Citizens, the United States Supreme Court ruled in 1959 that Texas courts could  not exclude Mexican-Americans from juries. The forum also led efforts to desegregate South Texas school districts in 1955 and 1956.
        Dr. Garcia was born in the Mexican village of Llera, Tamaulipas, on Jan. 17.  1914, to a college professor and a schoolteacher. His family emigrated to Mercedes, in the Texas Rio Grande Valley, in 1918 to escape the Mexican Revolution. He was one of seven children, six of whom became doctors.
        He went into medicine rather than pursuing his first love, teaching, he often said, because he would have more independence. "I have always felt that the poor people in this country have to have someone who can help them," he told The Corpus Christi Caller-Times in 1988. "I felt that because of my organization, my freedom of action and my knowledge as a doctor, I would be the one involved."
        He often told interviewers that he had decided to get an education soon after his family moved across the border and a high school teacher told him, "No Mexican will ever make an 'A' in my class."
        Dr. Garcia graduated from the University of Texas and the University of Texas Medical School in Galveston in 1940. In 1942, he volunteered for Army duty and served in Europe as an infantry officer, a combat engineer and a medical corps officer before being discharged as a major. He was awarded a Bronze Star with six battle stars. He met his wife, Wanda Fusillo, in Europe during the war.
        After the war, he returned to Corpus Christi and opened his practice next door to a V.A. office. He became a contract doctor for the V.A. Within months, he decided to form an organization to help veterans and their families cope with their first experience in dealing with officials.
        "Dr. Hector," as he was known, continued to practice medicine, even when deeply involved in G.I. Forum activities. Mr. Canales, Dr. Garcia's nephew, said he remembered that his mother, Dr. Garcia's sister Cleotilde, also a doctor, had often covered for him. "Between them," Mr. Canales said, "they delivered thousands of babies in Corpus Christi."
        The novelist Edna Ferber sought out Dr. Garcia in the early 1950's, while researching a book she planned about the Southwest in the 1940's and 1950's. She later modeled the character of a Mexican-American doctor in "Giant," her 1952 novel set in Texas, after Dr. Garcia.
        Over the years, his expertise in Mexican-American civil rights issues also drew the attention of a number of officials, including United States Presidents.
        President John F. Kennedy asked Dr. Garcia to negotiate a defense treaty between the United States and the Federation of the West Indies. In 1967, President Johnson appointed him to serve as Alternate Ambassador to the United Nations to focus on promoting better relations with Latin America and Spain. A year later, President Johnson made him the first Mexican-American to serve on the United States Commission on Civil Rights. In 1984, President Ronald Reagan awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
        Until several months ago, when it became impossible for Dr. Garcia to continue keeping office hours, he maintained a small practice in Corpus Christi's Mexican-American neighborhood, treating people regardless of their ability to pay. In recognition of his service to the community, the hospital in  which he died, Memorial Medical Center, named its indigent-care clinic after him.
        President Clinton, who became acquainted with Dr. Garcia while registering voters in the Rio Grande Valley in 1972, this week called him a national hero. "Dr. Garcia fought for half a century for civil and educational rights of Mexican-Americans," he said.
        Dr. Garcia is survived by his wife, Wanda; three daughters, Wanda, Cecilia and Susan; two brothers, Dr. C. P. Garcia of San Antonio, and Dr. Xico Garcia of Corpus Christi; three sisters, Dr. Cleotilde Garcia and Dr. Dalia Garcia, both of Corpus Christi, and Emilia Garcia Garza of Matamoros, Mexico. A son, Hector Jr., died in 1962 at the age of 13.
      