
        Pamela Mason, an author, actress, talk-show host and former wife of the actor James Mason, died on Saturday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80.
        Pamela Helen Mason was born in Southend-on-Sea, England, the daughter of Isadore and Helen Ostrer. Her father was a mill owner and was also in the movie business. Mrs. Mason said that part of her later success was that she left school at age 9; education, she said, only confuses the mind.
        She was 16 when she married Roy Kellino, a cinematographer. A young actor named James Mason came to stay with the couple, and they began collaborating on  a film, "I Met a Murderer." She fell in love with Mr. Mason and married him in 1940, after divorcing Mr. Kellino.
        The Masons and their 12 cats moved to Hollywood in 1946, and Mr. Mason went on to make his career as the smooth-voiced leading man in such films as "Lolita" and "A Star Is Born."
        The two were a contrast in styles. He was quiet to the point of dourness while Mrs. Mason would begin her day by telephoning Hollywood friends for the latest news. The writer Nora Ephron said the talkative Mrs. Mason had been "vaccinated with a phonograph needle."
        The Masons acted on Broadway in "Bathsheba" in 1947, and during the 1950's they appeared together on the "James Mason Show," on television. They were divorced in 1964. Mrs. Mason was represented by the well-known divorce attorney  Marvin Mitchelson, and one of the terms of her settlement was $1 million in community property. The settlement, Mr. Mason is said to have remarked, was one  reason he was forced to make so many bad movies.
        Mrs. Mason had two syndicated talk shows on television during the 1960's, "The Pamela Mason Show" and "The Weaker (?) Sex."
        Among her books were "Marriage Is the First Step Toward Divorce" and "The Female Pleasure Hunt," which advised women on every subject from love to putting on makeup to buying a house.
        She continued to have roles in films, including the 1985 television movie "My Wicked, Wicked Ways: The Legend of Errol Flynn."
        She is survived by her two children with Mr. Mason: a daughter, Portland, and a son, Morgan.
      