
        Peter Ludwig, a German chocolate manufacturer who amassed an immense art collection and gave or lent many artworks to public institutions in Germany and  elsewhere, died yesterday in a hospital in Germany. He was 71 and lived in Aachen.
        The announcement was made in Aachen by the management of his company, Ludwig  Schokolade, which did not specify the cause of death or give the name or location of the hospital. The German news agency DPA reported yesterday that experts had estimated that Mr. Ludwig and his wife, Irene, had collected roughly 50,000 artworks and valuable pieces of craftsmanship, ranging from pre-Columbian sculpture to medieval manuscripts to paintings by Picasso. Mr. Ludwig had declined to confirm or deny that estimated figure, the agency reported.
        His tastes as a collector also encompassed Pop Art, Russian avant-garde paintings and artworks that had been made under repressive governments in Cuba and elsewhere, including the more than 100 Cuban artworks that he bought in the  early 1990's.
        The Ludwigs donated or made long-term loans of artworks from their collection to many cities in Germany and elsewhere. Over the years, more than a score of museums in various countries have come to display works that the Ludwigs had acquired.
        The city of Cologne built and, in 1986, opened a museum bearing their name near the Cologne cathedral after Mr. Ludwig had given the city more than 300 American and European artworks from the 1960's. The Ludwigs later gave Cologne scores of works by Picasso, which led to the construction of another museum.
        Mr. Ludwig, who held a doctorate in art history, also played an important role in the founding of art museums in Budapest and in Coblenz, Germany, where he was born. His other philanthropies in the art world included establishing a foundation to nurture the arts in Cuba, where he helped to subsidize the Fifth Havana Biennial art exhibition in 1994.
        He also encountered problems and controversy. In 1983, after an economic downturn in what was then West Germany, as the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung put it later, "he was obliged to sell what was perhaps his most precious possession, his illuminated medieval manuscripts, to the Getty Museum" in Malibu, Calif.
        The Getty Museum acquired 144 illuminated manuscripts from the Ludwig collection in Aachen. John Russell, writing in The New York Times, said of the collection, "One of the finest holdings of its kind ever assembled, it is quite  certainly the most important that was in private hands."
        The Getty Trust made it known that the purchase money would be paid, not to the Ludwigs, but to the Ludwig Foundation in Aachen, which had been created to promote knowledge about art "even after the deaths of its founders." German officials suspected that tax-evasion had been involved in the transaction, but dropped the matter after Mr. Ludwig said he would pay a fine.
        He received his doctorate in art history from the University of Mainz, Germany in 1950 after writing his dissertation on Picasso.
        He is survived by his wife.
      