
        William J. Green, who blocked for Red Grange at the University of Illinois, helped cut a 400-mile road through the jungles of Burma during World War II and then helped clear the way for the full integration of black troops into the United States Army in 1947, died on July 17 in a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 90.
        In the quarter of a century he spent as executive vice president and chief engineer of the S.J. Groves & Sons Construction Company in Minneapolis, Mr. Green worked on many challenging projects, including major Interstate highways and river locks in the United States and Canada and an Arctic air base in Greenland.
        If he had to stifle a yawn now and then, it was understandable. When it came to building highways, Mr. Green had not only been there and done that, he had done it in a place where it was said it couldn't be done.
        Its official name was the Ledo Road, but it wasn't called the road that couldn't be built for nothing. The 400-mile route from Ledo, India, to a connection with the old Burma Road in China traversed some of the world's most daunting terrain: stark mountain ridges and monsoon-fed jungle valleys so forbidding that the entire triangular area of northern Burma was virtually uninhabited and all but uninhabitable.
        The need for the road arose in the early stages of World War II when the Japanese captured Rangoon and cut the old Burma Road north to China, leaving British and American forces no way to supply their Chinese allies except with air lifts..
        The brainstorm of the flamboyant Gen. Joseph W. (Vinegar Joe) Stillwell's chief operations officer, Lieut. Col. Frank D. Merrill, the road was begun by the Army Corps of Engineers in late 1942, but the work went so slowly -- moving only four miles from May to August in 1943, for example -- that in October, General Stillwell replaced the original commanding officer with Col. Lewis E. Pick, an experienced corps engineer who immediately brought in a longtime colleague, Lieut. Col. William J. Green, to serve as chief road engineer.
        Colonel Green had distinguished himself serving under Colonel Pick on the Missouri River project in the 1930's, and he arrived in Burma as something of a celebrity.
        The son of a Rockport, Ill., shoemaker, he had made headlines not only as a blocking back who ran fierce interference for Grange, the Fightin' Illini's famous Galloping Ghost, in the 1924 and 1925 seasons, but as a ball carrier of such skill that he actually gained more yards than Grange in one season and was listed for many years in the top five of the school's career rushing leaders.
        As a civilian employee of the Corps of Engineers, Mr. Green specialized in flood control and navigation projects in the 1930's. After he was commissioned as a first lieutenant in 1940, he won rapid promotion to lieutenant colonel and was an obvious choice to take over the Ledo Road.
        After Colonel Pick took over and Colonel Green joined him, a 24-hour work schedule was instituted, and air drops were used to establish three separate roadheads. As a result, the pace of construction increased from less than a mile a month to almost a mile a day at times. The road was completed in January 1945.
        Nobody knew better that Colonel Green that much of the credit belonged to the 10,000 black soldiers who had done most of the grueling work. After he, now a full colonel, and his commander, by then General Pick, were ordered home to Washington to receive personal commendations from President Truman, Colonel Green was appointed as an Army adviser to the board studying the question of a postwar role for black soldiers in the Army. The board's favorable report led President Truman to issue his famous desegregation order in 1947.
        As for the Ledo Road, the road that couldn't be built turned out to be a road that needn't have been built. By the time the supply line to China was completed, the Nationalist Chinese were more interested in fighting Communists than the Japanese. And with captured Pacific islands in bombing range of Japan, there was no need for the Chinese B-29 bases the Allies had planned.
        Today, in a Burma in political turmoil, most of the old road is a crumbling ruin, except for one pristine stretch near Myitkyina. The local drug lords make a point of keeping it in good repair.
        Mr. Green, whose wife, Elizabeth, died in 1985, is survived by two daughters, Sheila Green of Scottdale and Barbara Waters of Bedminster, N.J.; five sons, Patrick, of Augusta, Ga.; William Jr., of Rockville, Md.; Michael, of Chicago City, Minn.; Kevin, of Mankato, Minn., and Thomas, of Phoenix; a sister, Catherine Hefferan of Rockford, Ill.; a brother, John, of Seattle, 37 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 14, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday of William J. Green, who was credited with helping achieve full integration of black troops into the United States Army, misspelled the name of the general who commanded American forces in the China-Burma-India theater in World War II. He was Gen. Joseph W. (Vinegar Joe) Stilwell.
      