
        Merlyn Stuart Pitzele, a onetime student radical who grew up to advise the Republicans Thomas E. Dewey and Dwight D. Eisenhower on labor issues during their respective campaigns for the Presidency, died on Aug. 13 at home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 85.
        The cause was complications from a fall, said his son, Peter.
        Mr. Pitzele (pronounced PIT-zell-ee) worked -- at times concurrently -- as a labor organizer, economics teacher, management consultant, labor arbitrator, editor, author, adviser to future pensioners, drug fighter and group therapist.
        A product of the Great Depression, he first turned to the union movement to teach at a union-run school in Chicago and help organize steel workers.
        He moved to New York in 1940 to become a management consultant and the labor editor of Business Week, where he became senior editor in 1955.
        His speeches at industry meetings caught the attention of Mr. Dewey, who made him principal labor adviser when he campaigned for President in 1944 and 1948. Mr. Pitzele played the same role in the Eisenhower campaigns of 1952 and 1956.
        He was a member of the State Mediation Board from 1945 to 1957 and served as its chairman for seven of those years. The board is New York's labor peacemaker. Its members deal with critical situations while holding their regular jobs.
        He was on the faculty of Columbia University Teachers College and lectured at Princeton, Harvard and other universities. He wrote articles and  special reports on labor, economics and aging. In 1960 he founded Retirement Advisors Inc., which advised unions and businesses on life in retirement, and ran it until 1975.
        He then held managing positions in Daytop Village, which operates drug-rehabilitation centers, and the Moreno Institute in Beacon, N.Y., where  patients with emotional disorders act out difficult situations in their lives.
        Born in Chicago, he graduated from the University of Chicago in 1933 and did post-graduate work there and at the University of Wisconsin.
        In addition to his son, of Poughkeepsie, Mr. Pitzele is survived by two grandchildren.
      