
        Lester Cruzan, a sheet-metal worker who figured in a ground-breaking 1990 Supreme Court ''right-to-die'' ruling that involved his daughter Nancy Beth Cruzan, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Carterville, Mo. He was 62.
        Mr. Cruzan, who was called Joe, apparently committed suicide, by hanging, law-enforcement officials said, according to The Associated Press. Jerry Neil, chief deputy in the sheriff's department of Jasper County, reported that Mr. Cruzan had left a note, found by his wife, Joyce, that mentioned their daughter. Mr. Neil did not disclose what the note said about her.
        Nancy Cruzan was left in a vegetative state by an auto crash in 1983, and her parents went on to wage a prolonged legal campaign to remove her feeding tube. The case became the focus of a widespread, acrimonious debate about when and how relatives can decide to stop nourishment or medical treatment in order to end the life of an incapacitated loved one.
        Mr. and Mrs. Cruzan's legal efforts eventually succeeded. The State of Missouri, which had opposed them, dropped out of the case after the Supreme Court ruling, in June 1990, which affirmed in general terms that a patient whose wishes are clearly known has the right to have his or her life-sustaining treatment ended. After further legal steps, Miss Cruzan was permitted to die, late in 1990.
        Later, Mr. Cruzan expressed uncertainty about whether the right action had been taken. ''I've wondered sometimes if we have finally accomplished for God what he set out to do,'' he said in 1991. ''People say that's blasphemy, but I don't mean it that way. I mean it as, 'Where does God fit into the equation?' ''
        Miss Cruzan had been comatose for more than seven years by the time the Supreme Court ruled in her case. Eight Justices affirmed that a person with clearly known wishes has a constitutional right to have life-sustaining treatment ended.
        But the court ruled, 5 to 4, that the State of Missouri could keep Miss Cruzan alive because her family had not demonstrated by ''clear and convincing evidence'' that she would have wanted the treatment stopped.
        Two months later, Mr. and Mrs. Cruzan asked a Jasper County Probate Judge, Charles Teel, for a hearing to present new evidence from three of Miss Cruzan's co-workers.
        At a hearing in November 1990, the co-workers testified that they remembered her saying that she would never wish to live ''like a vegetable.'' Judge Teel ruled that there was clear evidence of her wishes, and he gave permission for the removal of the tube, which was carried out on Dec. 14, 1990. She died on Dec. 26, 1990, she was 33.
        Afterward, Mr. and Mrs. Cruzan became active in a campaign to persuade people to make known their wishes about life-sustaining treatment before such treatment could become necessary.
        Mr. Cruzan was born near Lakeside, Mo., graduated from high school in Carterville and was a sheet-metal worker most of his working life. He retired about a year ago.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cruzan is survived by two daughters, Christy White of Carterville and Donna McGurk of Webb City, Mo.; four grandchildren, and two brothers, Jim, who lives near Seneca, Mo., and Butch of Springfield, Mo.
      