
        Reginald Cabral, a Cape Cod impresario who made his Atlantic House inn into such a magnet for artists, writers and other offbeat revelers that he founded an art and literary collection simply by presenting his bar chits for payment, died on Tuesday at his home in Provincetown, Mass. He was 72.
        His family said the cause was apparently a heart attack.
        Mr. Cabral was also renowned as an amateur local historian and something akin to a professional storyteller.
        Never mind that his seafaring Portuguese ancestors didn't arrive in Provincetown until the 1870's or that he didn't buy the old Atlantic House off Commercial Street until 1949.  When Mr. Cabral got wound up, sitting by the barroom fire on a winter's evening telling the whaling tales of yore, it was easy to assume that he had jumped ship to open the inn when the Mayflower stopped by on the way to Plymouth in 1620.
        When he would stroke his long, white beard and recall the time in 1916 that Eugene O'Neill, who had taken a room at the inn to write a play, outwitted well-meaning friends concerned about his drinking by pulling liquor up to his room by a length of twine, it surely seemed that Mr. Cabral must have been in on the plot.
        Mr. Cabral, who haunted the Cape's libraries and turned both the bar and his old sea captain's house  into veritable museums, was passionate about communicating Provincetown's past as the birthplace of the American whaling industry and as a crucible of the arts.
        But he was just as passionate about preserving Provincetown's reputation for openness. As the proprietor of a lively bar that drew many writers, painters and gay customers, Mr. Cabral had a vested interest in Provincetown's vaunted tolerance of offbeat lifestyles, especially since, as he liked to tell it, so many of his customers over the years were struggling young artists who often paid their bar tabs by giving him samples of their work.
        Mr. Cabral, who donated so many evenings of Atlantic House proceeds to so many charities that he seemed lucky to have anything left over for himself, nevertheless always seemed to have enough to buy art or literary memorabilia.
        By the time some of his customers had struggled their way through to success as Mark Rothko, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, Larry Rivers and Franz Kline, Mr. Cabral had assembled the core of an important collection, one he supplemented with regular purchases of works by Provincetown artists (including some who hadn't run up bar bills they couldn't pay).
        He used his house for a fund-raising exhibition of his Tennessee Williams collection, and he was quite proud that he was buying Robert Mapplethorpe photographs long before anyone had heard of Mr. Mapplethorpe, or indeed before Mr. Mapplethorpe began taking the controversial photographs that made him notorious.
        While the Atlantic House might become a bit too packed for comfort in the summer, during the long Provincetown winters, the locals knew they could stop at the A-House bar for a drink and a tale -- perhaps one about the time Willem de Kooning went skinny-dipping in Herring Cove  and was arrested -- or maybe just to hear Mr. Cabral's booming laugh.
        Mr. Cabral, who was divorced, is survived by two sons, Peter and David; three daughters, April Pitzner  and Jennifer, both of Provincetown, and Robin Nicholson; and three grandchildren.
      