
        Paul Myron Gallop, a pioneer in the biology of aging who was the director of the Laboratory of Human Biochemistry at Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston, died last Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 69 and lived in the suburban community of Chestnut Hill.
        The cause was cancer, said Rachel King, a spokeswoman for Children's Hospital.
        Dr. Gallop, a professor of biological chemistry at the Harvard University Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, was known internationally for his work in the chemistry of collagen, the fibrous protein found in connective tissue, bone and cartilage.
        He took part in early research at Harvard that identified the mechanism that matures collagen and elastin, the basic constituent of elastic connective tissue in a lung or artery. That work led to broader understanding of connective-tissue functions.
        At Children's Hospital, he and his colleagues discovered osteocalcin, a vitamin-K-dependent protein with an essential role in the mineralization of bone; defects in the protein are associated with development of osteoporosis and related diseases.
        Most recently, he was working on a method for measuring PQQ, a substance that is crucial to the body's control of oxidative metabolism and  that, Dr. Gallop discovered, protects animals against stroke.
        Dr. Gallop's studies of proteins  opened new fields for scientists.  Among other things, his basic research led to clinical applications like a widely used test for monitoring diabetes.
        Paul Gallop was born in Manhattan, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1948 and received his doctorate in biophysics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1953. He was on the faculty of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York from 1959 until 1972, when he moved to Children's and Harvard.
        Besides his laboratory post at Children's, he was chairman of the department of oral biology at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine and a professor of biological chemistry in the Harvard-M.I.T. Health Science and Technology Program.
        Dr. Gallop is survived by his wife, Florence Wall Gallop; two daughters, Pamela Brooks of Scotch Plains, N.J., and Jennifer Gallop of Brookline, Mass.; a son, George, of Philadelphia; a sister, Constance Schulman of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      