
        Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell, a former dean of the University of Virginia medical school and an authority on American Presidents' health and illnesses, died on Friday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 79.
        The cause was complications from prostate cancer, said Jules Levine, an associate vice president of the university.
        Dr. Crispell, an internist, retired in 1987 after 10 years as the University Professor of medicine and law at the university and after 45 years on its faculty, during which he was also a professor of medicine and the university's vice president for health sciences.
        He was the co-author, with Carlos F. Gomez, of the book ''Hidden Illness in the White House'' (1988, Duke). Reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, Dr. Herbert L. Abrams of Stanford's Center for International Security and Arms Control wrote, ''The public's right to know and the nation's need for strong and rational leadership are equally well served by this powerful reminder that there must be no more hidden illness in the White House.''
        The work underscored the importance of the 25th Amendment to the Constitution, ratified in 1967, which defined a mechanism for carrying out part of the original constitutional provision for the Presidential succession. That part said that a President who was not able ''to discharge the powers and duties'' of his office should be replaced by the Vice President. But it did not say how to determine a President's inability to do so.
        Presidents Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy were chief subjects of the book. Wilson stayed on in office after becoming physically unfit for the post. Roosevelt ran for re-election in 1944 while weakened by hypertension and heart failure. Kennedy took pains to conceal his Addison's disease, involving failure of the adrenal glands.
        Dr. Crispell was born in Ithaca, N.Y., received his medical degree from the University of Michigan and was the director of the department of medicine at New York Medical College from 1958 to 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie; four daughters, Ann Crispell Ross-Elton of Danbury, Conn., Kathleen Joan Crispell of Ann Arbor, Mich., Bobbie Crispell Johnson of Lancaster, Pa., and Peggy Crispell Bourke of Glencoe, Ill.; a brother, Roger, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; a sister, Jean Ballard of Ithaca, N.Y., and 12 grandchildren.
      