
        Ossie Clark, the British fashion designer whose whimsical romantic designs and frenetic life-style helped set trendy London ablaze in the 1960's, was stabbed to death last Tuesday night in his West London apartment, the police said. He was 54, and his 28-year-old former companion, Diego Cogolato, was arrested and charged with murder.
        His once incandescent career had long been in eclipse, and his violent death in a public housing project on Penzance Street helped underscore just how far Mr. Clark had come from the palmy days of Kingsbridge Road. There, his shop, Quorum, was at the center of the 1960's fashion explosion, and he was at the center of a lifestyle that epitomized an excessive era.
        At a time when mod was growing mad, Mr. Clark was a man of his times. Those who cherished his bold, imaginative designs included Mick and Bianca Jagger, Marianne Faithful, Elizabeth Taylor, Yoko Ono and Twiggy, and among those who craved his free-spirited company were David Hockney, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, Jimi Hendrix, Cecil Beaton, Dennis Hopper and Bette Davis.
        He may have been overshadowed by some of his friends, but Mr. Clark became an icon of an era, thanks in part to a famous double portrait by his closest friend, Mr. Hockney, depicting Mr. Clark with his wife and partner, Celia Birtwell, in their London home. Entiled ''Mr. and Mrs. Clark and Percy,'' (their cat) it is one of the most popular paintings in the Tate Gallery.
        Raymond Oswald Clark was born into a working-class family in Liverpool about the same time as the Beatles, but grew up on the Lancashire-Yorkshire border in northern England in his family's ancestral village, Oswaldtwistle, from which his name was derived.
        A sensitive boy who found refuge with only his mother and an art teacher, Mr. Clark was often taunted by his classmates. ''I liked cats and flowers and walked a certain way,'' he later recalled.
        He hit London in 1961 as a star scholarship student at the Royal College of Art. And even before a one-man, student fashion show made him a hit in the fall of 1964, he had been embraced by London cafe society.
        On vacation in the United States with Mr. Hockney that summer, he was met in New York by the Beatles manager, Brian Epstein, who gave him tickets to the group's famous Hollywood Bowl concert. Wherever he went, the striking long-haired 21-year-old was mobbed, in part, perhaps, because he was sometimes mistaken for George Harrison.
        Mr. Clark, who once described himself as a ''brilliant butterfly,'' was known for fairytale ballgowns and dresses that fairly dripped sexuality and for such excursions to the mod fashion frontier as his yellow plastic suit and a coat adorned with flashing light bulbs.
        At a time when many high-fashion garments seemed made to be worn once and discarded, Mr. Clark's were widely appreciated for their durable construction and expert cut,  frequently on the bias. Many of his 1960's designs have survived to become collectors' items.
        ''It's all in my brain and my fingers,'' he once said. ''I'm a master cutter.''
        Looking back, Mr. Clark played down the role of the actual fashions in the free-wheeling fashion scene of champagne, drugs and sexual exploration.
        ''The clothes weren't that important,'' he said. ''It was a whole attitude. It was about taking off their bras and enjoying themselves.''
        From the beginning he worked closely with Miss Birtwell, who designed many of the eye-catching prints Mr. Clark used as the basis of his clothes. The couple was married in 1969, and friends dated the beginning of Mr. Clark's decline to their divorce in 1974.
        Mr. Clark, who boasted that he had no head for business, continued to be a factor in fashion through the 1970's, but after his business went bankrupt in 1981 he virtually retired.
        The police said Mr. Clark had been living alone, but as recently as six months ago he and Mr. Cogolato were sharing the public housing apartment where Mr. Clark was killed.
        The couple had declared themselves lovers and Buddhists when they were arrested last February and convicted of assaulting police officers in a brawl that began when Mr. Clark, impatient to drive away from a gas station, nudged the car in front of him ''to chivvy them along a bit,'' as he later explained, and two angry off-duty police officers got out.
        Mr. Clark, who was given a suspended sentence, insisted that he had not been drunk. After all, he said, he had consumed only a half bottle of champagne.
        He is survived by two sons, Albert and George.
      