
        Arthur J. Moore, a journalist and lay theologian who edited a major Methodist magazine for 34 years, died suddenly of heart disease on Thursday in the Brooklyn Hospital Center. He had suffered for many years from a blood disorder. He was 74.
        Mr. Moore was both a participant and an observer at many of the major events that reshaped American church life during the 1960's and 1970's. He took part in civil rights and anti-war demonstrations, including the 1966 march from Selma to Montgomery led by the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.
        He covered the closing session of the Second Vatican Council for the Religion News Service in 1965 and maintained a lifelong interest in unity among Christian churches.
        He attended the assemblies of the World Council of Churches in Evanston, Ill., in 1954, in New Delhi in 1961, in Uppsala, Sweden, in 1968, in Nairobi, Kenya, in 1975, and in Vancouver, B.C, in 1983. He traveled to Methodist mission projects around the world and served on the press staff at other international church gatherings in Africa and Latin America. He was also a member of a fact-finding delegation to the Middle East in 1969.
        From 1953 to 1987, he was an editor at the magazine of the Board of Global Ministries of the United Methodist Church. In 1964, the journal, which had a circulation of more than 100,000, changed its name from World Outlook to New World Outlook. Mr. Moore, who had been chosen chief editor in 1964, transformed it from a traditional mission magazine into a publication that encompassed current events and won numerous awards for its articles and graphics. In 1990, the Associated Church Press recognized his work with a citation of honor.
        Mr. Moore was also a contributing editor and member of the board of Christianity and Crisis, the influential journal of liberal political and theological comment founded by Reinhold Niebuhr.
        James Finn, a former editor of several journals dealing with religion, human rights and international politics, recalled Mr. Moore's role at international conferences as displaying ''a gift for making comments that would reduce ideological or cultural differences while still making a strong point.''
        Mr. Moore was born in San Antonio on May 7, 1922. His father was a Methodist minister and later bishop renowned for his preaching and his zeal for the church's overseas missions. In Mr. Moore's case, the itinerant life of a Methodist preacher's son involved accompanying his parents on trips to Europe and Asia, where Bishop Moore supervised mission activities.
        Before World War II, Mr. Moore attended the University of Texas, but he graduated from Emory University in 1947 after serving in the Navy in the Pacific. A reporter at The New York Daily News until 1950, he was on the editorial staff of Musical America and Columbia University Press before taking his position at the Methodist Board of Global Ministries.
        He lived in Brooklyn.
        Besides writing regularly for Christianity and Crisis, Mr. Moore was a frequent contributor to religious journals that included The Christian Century, Commonweal and the National Catholic Reporter.
      