
        Philip C. R. Jerry, a choreographer and a leading dancer with the Joffrey Ballet, died on Friday at Albany Medical Center. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, said Patrick W. Corbin, his companion.
        As a performer Mr. Jerry had the gift of quietly illuminating the stage with an inner radiance that informed characters as different as a wryly observant painter in Antony Tudor's ''Offenbach in the Underworld'' and a dashing, insouciant Petruchio in John Cranko's ''Taming of the Shrew.'' He brought a sense of fine detail to roles like Romeo and the Chinese Conjurer in Leonide Massine's ''Parade'' and projected the kind of powerful presence that caused his portrayal of Death in Kurt Jooss's ''Green Table'' to be singled out by critics of The New York Times as one of the 10 best performances of 1983.
        Mr. Jerry's choreography was informed by a similarly quiet intelligence. His best-known creations included ''Hexameron,'' for the Joffrey, in which he explored the formal classical ballet idiom in fresh new ways that flattered his young dancers, and ''Our Town,'' a retelling of the Thornton Wilder play that he choreographed for the American Repertory (formerly Princeton) Ballet. ''Our Town'' his most ambitious work, remained faithful to its source while translating it into vivid impressionistic physical terms.
        Born in Elmira, N.Y., Mr. Jerry trained in dance there before enrolling in the School of American Ballet in Manhattan, an affiliate of the New York City Ballet, where he studied with Jacques d'Amboise and was featured in a television film about Mr. d'Amboise called ''Sandlot Ballet.'' At 16, Mr. Jerry joined Joffrey II, the junior company, and three years later was chosen for the senior Joffrey troupe, in which he danced for 13 years. He also performed on Broadway in a revival of ''The Most Happy Fella'' and in ''Dangerous Games.''
        Mr. Jerry, who went to college after he stopped performing, graduated in 1995 from Princeton University with honors in art history and a certificate in French. During his years in Princeton, he also taught ballet and was ballet master of the American Repertory Ballet. In January he began working as a special assistant to Harvey Lichtenstein, president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
        In addition to Mr. Corbin, his companion of nine years, Mr. Jerry is survived by his parents, Jocelyn R. and Harold A. Jerry Jr. of Albany; a brother, Harold A. Jerry 3d of Princeton; and two sisters, Danielle G. Jerry of Anchorage, Alaska, and Jocelyn Jerry Wolcott of Concord,  N.H.
      