
        Geoffrey Dearmer, a poet of such abiding modesty that he had to live to a hundred to see himself lionized as one of England's poetic voices of World War I, died on Sunday at his home at Birchington-on-Sea, on the Kentish coast. He was 103.
        A onetime Government censor and BBC executive, Mr. Dearmer was living in obscure retirement three years ago when he was suddenly thrust into the limelight as an acclaimed poetic contemporary of such celebrated soldier poets as Robert Graves, Rupert Brooke, Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen.
        Mr. Dearmer's two volumes of war poems had been well received when they were published in 1918 and 1923, and one or two of his poems had been regularly reproduced in anthologies. But he had been virtually forgotten until an admirer, preparing a biographical sketch for yet another anthology, called the BBC to find out the date of his death.
        Told that Mr. Dearmer was alive enough to cash his pension checks, the admirer, Laurence Cotterell, visited Mr. Dearmer and arranged for the re-publication of many of his poems in a volume entitled ''A Pilgrim's Song: Selected Poems.''
        Although that volume, too, was well received, Mr. Dearmer, typically, had his doubts: ''Did I really write that?'' he asked as he riffled through page proofs during an interview before publication. ''Oh dear, it's really quite bad. The overwritten work of a young man using important words without justification.''
        Although few would rank him with Owen, widely considered the best of the Great War poets, critics gave Mr. Dearmer his due. In a review of his first volume in The New York Times in 1918, for example, the critic Robert McBride said that even in the most unassuming of his verses, ''there is dignity that approaches grandeur.''
        But while Brooke was known for his sentimental patriotism and Owen for his fiery denunciation of the war, Mr. Dearmer tended to maintain an optimism in the face of carnage.
        That may have been due partly to his lifelong religious fervor and partly to the fact that he seems to have had somewhat of a better war than  Brooke, who died of blood poisoning on the way to Gallipoli in 1915, and Owen, who was killed by German machine-gun fire a week before the armistice in 1918.
        To hear Mr. Dearmer tell it, although he fought at both Gallipoli in Turkey and the Somme line in France, he saw little death and destruction and found the notorious trenches comfortable enough under the circumstances. He stopped publishing poetry in 1923, he said, simply because he was not making enough money at it.
        His proudest literary achievement was indeed not his poetry, but the critical role he played as a member of a theatrical selection board in 1928 in producing R. C. Sherriff's ''Journey's End,'' widely regarded as one of the great plays of the war.
        He later worked as a Government censor of plays until the post was abolished, much to his satisfaction.  From 1939 to 1959 he was the editor and occasional contributor to the BBC's ''Children's Hour,'' a program of such literate humor that as many adults as children were in its audience. His was the third voice, after Uncle Dave and Uncle Mac, to say good night at the end of the program.
        One of his best-known poems, 'Sentinel,'' which describes the retreat from Gallipoli, reads in part:
        . . . The sentinel
        Spied from his high cliff-
        towered citadel
        The leaping flash of guns; but
        ere the roar
        Sprang from its den on the
        dim Asian shore,
        He blew a trumpet. Then, like
        burrowing moles,
        Dim forms below dashed
        headlong to their holes,
        The while that hurtling iron
        crossed the sea,
        And fifteen seconds seemed
        eternity. . . .
        Mr. Dearmer, who wrote a series of poems for children after the war, was especially proud that Hoagy Carmichael had adapted one of them, about a whale, to song.
        The Dearmer version begins:  I can assure you this is true,
        The Whale, when born (I mean the Blue)
        Weighs eight tons! Yes, it makes you think
        And so rich is the milk they drink,
        They put on -- every mother's
        son --
        Each day a quarter of a ton.
        He is survived by a daughter, the  Rev. Juliette Woollcombe; two half sisters and a granddaughter.
      