
        E. Digby Baltzell, a sociologist widely known for his analytical writings about his fellow white Anglo-Saxon Protestants, sometimes known by the acronym WASP's, died on Saturday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 80 and had homes in Philadelphia and Wellfleet, Mass.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Jocelyn Carlson Baltzell.
        Dr. Baltzell taught at the University of Pennsylvania from 1947 until his retirement in 1986. He was called by the author and columnist Michael M. Thomas ''the best-known interpreter'' of the concept white Anglo-Saxon Protestant, and he used the term WASP with delight in its often critical sting.
        Repeatedly, Dr. Baltzell has been said to have invented the acronym. But Mrs. Baltzell said in an interview yesterday that he had not originated it.
        She said that it might never be known who first used it, but that Dr. Baltzell ''explicated and defined it in his writings'' and made it better known, particularly in his book ''The Protestant Establishment: Aristocracy and Caste in America'' (1964, Yale.)
        Applauding that work in The New York Times, the critic Charles Poore wrote ''Mr. Baltzell ranges tirelessly up and down our history, but his special target is the Protestant Establishment, also frequently called the WASP's.''
        ''Mr. Baltzell shows they roil the waters of business, politics, education, and, when they can, of the fine arts,'' Mr. Poore went on, but ''he shows that the main buccaneering days of the establishment are approaching their end.''
        Dr. Baltzell, who was an Episcopalian and a Democrat, won high praise for his 1979 book ''Puritan Boston and Quaker Philadelphia: Two Protestant Ethics and the Spirit of Class Authority and Leadership'' (Free Press).
        Andrew Hacker, professor of political science at Queens College, wrote in a review, ''It is a vast and stunning volume, displaying sociology at its best.''
        That book was about class, especially the upper social strata of Boston and Philadelphia. In its pages, Dr. Baltzell pondered the question of why upper crust Bostonians massively enriched their city's public life and life of the mind, but top-drawer Philadelphians contributed much less to theirs. And he suggested that the disparity reflected differences between Puritanism and Puritans, on the one hand, and Quakerism and Quakers on the other.
        In an interview in 1981, Dr. Baltzell said that ''American Protestantism in general'' showed a relative lack of involvement in producing art or pursuing purely intellectual matters. He added that the greatest contributions in intellectual and artistic endeavors in America in recent years had been made by Jews. ''People talk about what Episcopalians have accomplished and their power,'' he went on, ''but what Jews have done in the United States since World War II is now the great untold story.''
        Mrs. Baltzell said that her husband, in his last months, had begun research on what was to be a book recording what he called the end of the Protestant establishment. She said he had come to feel that the Protestant establishment's power had substantially decreased in recent decades, and that its place had been taken by a meritocracy based on professional performance.
        Dr. Baltzell was born in Philadelphia, the son and namesake of an insurance broker, and went on to attend St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and to receive a bachelor's degree in 1939 from the University of Pennsylvania and a doctorate in sociology in 1952 from Columbia. In World War II he was a Navy pilot in the Pacific.
        He won a Guggenheim fellowship and fellowships at Harvard and was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He married Jane Piper in 1943 and she died in 1991.
        In addition to his wife, Jocelyn, whom he married in 1993, he is survived by two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Cambridge, Mass., and Jan Baltzell of Philadelphia; two stepdaughters, Justina Carlson of San Francisco and Julie Carlson Groves of San Diego; a stepgrandson; and a brother, Dr. William Baltzell of Philadelphia.
      