
        Dr. George A. Carden Jr., a Manhattan internist who was awarded a Presidential Certificate of Merit for his role in research about malaria during World War II, when Americans fought in malaria-ridden lands, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89 and also had a home in Peapack, N.J.
        Dr. Carden practiced medicine in affiliation with what is now Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1946 until his death and had ties to other hospitals. He retired in 1982 as a clinical professor of medicine at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons after 36 years on the school's clinical faculty.
        During the war, he was part of an American team doing research in the laboratory and the field on tropical diseases, especially malaria.
        At the beginning of the American involvement in the war there were more American casualties from malaria than from enemy fire, said Dr. Jerome Vanderberg, a professor at New York University's medical school, in an interview last year. The research by Dr. Carden's team led to the widespread use of chloroquine to prevent and treat malaria among American soldiers, and by the end of the campaign in the Pacific, Dr. Vanderberg said, malaria was largely under control.
        In 1948, Dr. Carden was awarded a Presidential Certificate of Merit for outstanding service ''toward winning the war'' as chief of the wartime Office of Scientific Research and Development's malaria division. Earlier in the war, he was executive secretary to the Committee on Drugs and Medical Supplies of the National Research Council, which advises the Government.
        Dr. Carden served in 1945 and 1946 as executive secretary to the National Academy of Sciences' Board for Coordination of Malaria Studies and was an editor of the 1948 book ''Advances in Military Medicine.''
        After conducting, a 1953 survey of cancer research in the United States and Europe for the American Cancer Society, he concluded that basic research in virology and immunology was potentially more fruitful than a narrow focus on chemotherapy.
        Born in Dallas and raised partly in Manhattan, he received a bachelor's degree in 1931 and a medical degree in 1935, both from Yale University. He was an intern and resident at Presbyterian Hospital.
        The Carden Scholars Program for research in virology and immunology at Yale Medical School is named in his honor, and he received a Distinguished Service Award in 1992 from the school's alumni association.
        He married Mary Lambert in 1940 and she died in 1942. He married Constance S. Sullivan in 1943. She died last May.
        He is survived by a daughter, Constance P. Carden of Manhattan; three sons, Dr. G. Alexander Carden of Palm Beach, Fla., William, of Manhattan, and Timothy, of Montclair, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      