
        Sam Aaron, the dean of New York wine merchants and a seminal figure in developing America's taste for wine, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, L.I.
        A son, Peter H. Aaron, said that his father had been suffering from spinal cancer but that respiratory failure was the cause of death.
        Sam Aaron retired in 1990 as chairman of Sherry-Lehmann Inc., whose Sherry-Lehmann Wine and Spirits is one of the world's best-known retail wine shops.
        Sam Aaron's reputation reached far beyond 679 Madison Avenue, where he and his brother Jack set up their business in 1934. Over the years, before age slowed him down, Mr. Aaron's buying trips to Europe were major wine events. With Champagne on the sideboard, he would hold court in a suite at the Hotel Crillon in Paris, receiving winemakers and chateau owners from all over France. They came to pay homage and to sell him wine, knowing full well that to have shelf space at Sherry-Lehmann was the key to the American wine market.
        Mr. Aaron often said he had never planned to be a merchant. He had earned bachelor's and master's degrees in educational psychology at City College of New York. ''But,'' he once recalled, ''there were no jobs for psychologists in 1934.'' So he went in with his brother in taking over Sherry Wine and Spirits, as the business was then known.
        Like most liquor stores of the time, Sherry had its roots in Prohibition. Jules Endler, a colorful figure from the bootlegging era, had opened the store in the old Louis Sherry Building at 62d Street and Madison Avenue. But after a few months, he decided to get out of retailing. The buyer he chose was Jack Aaron, a friend from the Prohibition years and a drinking companion at one of the epoch's best-known speakeasies, the Red Head.
        There were three Aaron brothers, Jack, Sam and Charles, the sons of Harris Aaron, a Russian immigrant who settled in Brooklyn at the end of the last century.
        In taking over Sherry-Lehmann, Jack Aaron paid himself $125 a week. Sam Aaron took $75 and with it the title of president. Years later he recalled: ''It was just another liquor store at first. Then one day a man walked in and changed the future for the shop and for us.''
        It was Frank Schoonmaker, a former New Yorker writer who became a wine importer, an early champion of American wine, and an O.S.S. agent in World War II. He tutored the eager young liquor merchant in the mysteries of wine.
        ''I was in the liquor business,'' Sam Aaron said, ''but I didn't know anything about wine. Frank changed all that.'' In 1937, with Mr. Schoonmaker, Sam Aaron made his first trip to the vineyards of Europe.
        During the war, while Jack Aaron ran Sherry, Sam Aaron went into the Army and became chief psychologist at Mason General Hospital, later Pilgrim State, on Long Island. ''For a time, I thought of staying with psychology,'' he said, ''but someone convinced me that I'd spend my life working for psychiatrists.''
        At war's end, he rejoined his brother on Madison Avenue. Soon after, the Aarons opened a small gourmet food shop next to the liquor store and called it Alanberry's. To operate it, they hired a sometime actor and food enthusiast named James Beard. In 1948, Mr. Beard moved on to begin his writing and teaching career and Alanberry's was closed.
        It was in those early post-war years that Sam Aaron began to develop his flair for writing advertising copy. In his catalogues, which he wrote himself, he could in a few pithy sentences convey the idea that a wine was superb, that it was a bargain and that there were only a few bottles left and little chance of finding more.
        He would write: ''The little town of Savigny-les-Beaune, in a fold of the hills between Beaune and Corton, produces what are perhaps the pleasantest medium-priced Burgundies of the whole Cote d'Or. This 1949, fine, not too heavy and now ready is an exceptional wine of its class.''
        Old Sherry-Lehmann fans collect the early catalogues like baseball cards. In the latest catalogue, the California winemaker Robert Mondavi noted that in his early days in the business, there were three outstanding figures in the American wine trade, Frank Schoonmaker, Alexis Lichine and Sam Aaron.
        In 1960, the store manager at Sherry, Joseph Stricks, told the Aarons that he wanted to buy them out. When they declined, he walked five blocks up Madison Avenue and bought another wine shop, M. Lehmann Inc.
        ''It was a strange situation,'' Sam Aaron once said. ''Our chief competitor was now owned by our former manager.'' But in 1965, the Aarons bought the Lehmann name and inventory and formed Sherry-Lehmann Wine and Spirits.
        Jack Aaron died suddenly in 1967, and Joseph Stricks, who had come back into the business, died in 1971. Jack's son, Michael, took his father's place. Gradually, Sam Aaron took on the mantle of expert emeritus. In 1968, he and Mr. Beard wrote ''How to Eat Better for Less Money.'' In 1970, he edited the Wines and Spirits volume in a Time-Life series on food, and in 1976, he joined Clifton Fadiman in compiling ''The Joys of Wine,'' a collection of articles by experts and enthusiasts.
        Michael Aaron assumed control of the business in 1990, and is currently chairman and president of Sherry Lehman. His uncle went somewhat unwillingly into retirement.
        In retirement, Mr. Aaron divided his time between his apartment on Sutton Place and a home in East Hampton. Weeks before his death, he sold the Long Island home and reminisced about his years in the resort town in a 2,000-word letter to a local newspaper. Typically, he sent copies of the article to all his friends.
        ''He was very proud of the piece,'' said his friend, the writer Joseph Heller, ''and he was disappointed when there were no letters responding to it in the paper. I told him, 'Sam, you didn't say anything controversial.' ''
        At lunches in his favorite New York restaurants, he would regale friends with wine stories; like the time he and Mr. Schoonmaker contrived to corner the market in 1953 Chateau Petrus, then a virtually unknown Bordeaux wine, and convince Henri Soule to feature it at his famous restaurant, Le Pavillon. ''We put Petrus on the map,'' he would say.
        Then there was the story about how he missed making a million dollars on the 1961 vintage of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, which was first offered for sale by the chateau at about $6.
        ''My stories have three things in common,'' Mr. Aaron said. ''They are all about wine, they are all about me and they could only happen in New York.''
        Besides his son, Peter, of Manhattan, Mr. Aaron is survived by his wife, Florence Goldberg Aaron; another son, Andrew, of Ardsley, N.Y., ; two daughters, Jane F. Aaron of Manhattan and Lisa I. Aaron of Pikesville, Md., and six grandchildren.
      