
        Helen Kushnick, who managed Jay Leno's rise from small-time comic to star of the ''Tonight'' show but was dismissed as the program's executive producer four months after Mr. Leno succeeded Johnny Carson as host, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Jane Rosenthal, a friend. She was 51.
        After Mr. Leno took over ''Tonight'' in May 1992, the show received an avalanche of criticism and ratings began to fall. In late September, NBC executives dismissed Ms. Kushnick after she was accused of demanding that guests booked by ''Tonight'' not appear on rival talk shows.
        Ms. Kushnick, whose maiden name was Gorman, grew up in Harlem. Her first job was as secretary to the producer David Gerber at 20th Century Fox in New York. She moved to Hollywood with Mr. Gerber and eventually found work at International Creative Management, the talent agency, where she rose from secretary to agent.
        In the mid-1970's, she formed a partnership with her husband, Jerrold Kushnick, an entertainment lawyer, and established herself as a manager. Her clients included Mr. Leno, whom she spotted in 1975 at the Comedy Store, Elayne Boosler, Jimmie Walker and for a brief period David Letterman.
        Ms. Kushnick's role in Mr. Leno's rise to host of ''The Tonight Show'' was chronicled in ''The Late Shift: Letterman, Leno and the Network Battle for the Night,'' by Bill Carter, a television reporter for The New York Times. In an HBO movie based on the book, the role of Ms. Kushnick was played by Kathy Bates.
        Ms. Kushnick, contesting Mr. Carter's version of events, filed a lawsuit for libel, which was settled out of court.
        Mr. Kushnick died of cancer seven years ago. The couple had twins, one of whom, Samuel, became infected with the virus that causes AIDS during a blood transfusion and died at age 3 in 1983. Ms. Kushnick became a campaigner in the fight against the disease.
        Ms. Kushnick is survived by a daughter, Sara Rose (the other twin), and a brother, Joseph Gorman, of New York City.
      