
        Sir Frank Whittle, the British inventor of the jet engine, whose revolutionary concept encountered resistance from his country's Government for more than a decade before finally transforming the 20th century, died on Thursday in his home in Columbia, Md. He was 89.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Ian Whittle.
        Sir Frank first laid out his vision for jet propulsion at age 21 in his senior thesis at the Royal Air Force College. In the following years, as a young officer in the Air Force, he pursued his ideas for a jet engine, which received no support from the Government and were derided by the Air Ministry as impractical.
        He received a patent in 1932 and, with the backing of friends, ran the first jet engine on the ground in 1937, the year acknowledged as the date of the invention. But what prodded the British Government into taking the invention seriously -- and financing a flight -- was the work of another inventor who was working independently in Germany, Dr. Hans J. P. von Ohain. With backing from an aircraft company, Dr. von Ohain was able to fly his jet first, on Aug. 17, 1939.
        With animosities intensifying between England and Germany, the British Government gave Sir Frank its backing and essentially took over his project. Thus, the first British jet plane, a Gloster-Whittle E29/39, flew on May 15, 1941. And by 1944, jet fighter planes were battling in World War II, with Britain's Gloster Meteors going up against Germany's Messerschmitt Me 262's.
        The introduction of the jet engine  helped shape the modern era as large numbers of people and goods could be transported across the globe in hours.
        ''This was a leap almost equivalent to the Wright brothers' discovery itself,'' said Walter J. Boyne, a former director of the National Air and Space Museum and a friend of Sir Frank's. ''Without the jet engine, we would never have the passenger jetliners and the total integration of the world.''
        The jet engine replaced the piston or reciprocating engine, which had powered propeller planes, enabling planes to fly at much higher altitudes and at greater speeds. In a jet design, air flowing through the front of the engine is compressed and mixed with fuel before igniting in a continuous explosion. The expanding gases are ejected out the engine's back, thrusting the aircraft forward.
        The development of the piston engine had reached its peak when the jet was born. ''Even in their primitive form, the jet engines came in at a power level about equal to the most powerful piston engine,'' Mr. Boyne said. ''The jet engines had all of their development potential ahead of them. The early Whittle engines generated 1,000 pounds of thrust, and now we have engines that generate 50,000 to 60,000 pounds of thrust.''
        Sir Frank was born on June 1, 1907, in Coventry, England, the son of an engineer who was himself a ''great tinkerer,'' Ian Whittle said. The young Whittle assisted his father in his workshop, where he made valves for piston engines.
        At age 16, Sir Frank joined the Royal Air Force as an apprentice. In 1926 he was awarded a cadetship to the Royal Air Force College in Cranwell, where he wrote the thesis titled ''Future Developments in Aircraft Design.'' After his graduation, he followed an active flying career, becoming a well-known aerobatic pilot, but all the while continuing to develop his idea for jet propulsion. His many attempts to interest private companies in his design all failed.
        But the birth of his engine design changed everything. Toward the end of the war, he was promoted to Air Commodore and in 1948 he received a knighthood. When Sir Frank retired from the Royal Air Force in 1948, the Government awarded him $:100,000 for his invention. He then did consulting work for the government-owned British Overseas Airways Corporation and advised companies on oil well drilling technology.
        After he was divorced from his first wife, Sir Frank moved to the United States in 1976. He married an American, Hazel Hall. For the next few years he worked as a research professor at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.
        Sir Frank, an intense, quiet man had a lively sense of humor around friends but could be quite sharp at other times. He developed a close friendship years after the war with his German rival, Dr. von Ohain, who now lives in Florida. In 1991, the two men received the prestigious Charles Stark Draper Prize of the National Academy of Engineering.
        Even though Sir Frank is universally acknowledged to be the inventor of the jet engine, it was Dr. von Ohain's design -- an ''axial-flow engine'' as opposed to Sir Frank's ''centrifugal flow'' engine -- that was ''eventually adopted by most manufacturers by the 1950's,'' Mr. Boyne said.
        But initially, anyway, both Britain and the United States followed Sir Frank's design. In October 1942, the United States entered the jet age with the first flight of the Bell XP-59A with General Electric engines.
        Sir Frank is survived by his wife; two sons, Ian of Woking, England, and David of St. Andrews, Scotland; a brother, Albert Whittle, of Scotland, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 14, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about Sir Frank Whittle, the inventor of the jet engine, misstated the history of jet airplanes in warfare. The first jet-versus-jet combat took place during the Korean War, not World War II. Britain's first jet warplanes, Gloster Meteors, powered by engines of Sir Frank's design, never encountered the first German jet warplanes, the Messerschmitt ME-262's.
      