
        Dr. Henry Swan, a daring medical innovator who pioneered open-heart surgery in the 1950's by plunging patients into a bathtub full of ice water to suspend circulation, died on July 13 at his home in the Denver suburb of Lakewood, Colo. He was 83 and a former chief of surgery at the University of Colorado Medical School.
        The cause was a neurological disorder, said his wife, Geri.
        It was a medical paper describing supercooling experiments on dogs that gave Dr. Swan the idea of using the technique to stop the heart and suspend circulation long enough to perform cardiac surgery. After performing experiments on 400 dogs and conducting other research, Dr. Swan concluded that he would have only six minutes to complete the surgery, since a patient deprived of oxygen any longer would suffer irreparable brain damage.
        The later development of heart-lung machines, which pump oxygenated blood through a patient's brain and body with a detour around the heart, gave surgeons a safer way of accomplishing the same end, but the cooling techniques Dr. Swan used in completing the first successful series of cardiac surgeries are still in use at some hospitals. And it is a testament to the impact of his technique on medical history that the bathtub he used to chill patients is displayed at the Smithsonian Institution.
        It would hardly seem an accident that Dr. Swan would be the one to make such a bold foray to the frontiers of medicine. In Denver, where he became a revered figure, he gained a reputation as an adventurer in virtually every aspect of his life, not always with total success.
        Indeed, Dr. Swan, an avid aviator who flew his medical team all over the country and as far as South America to demonstrate his surgical technique, became easy to spot at medical conferences. He would be the one wearing a cast on one body part or another, colleagues said, the results of one of the three air crashes he survived.
        Dr. Swan, the son of a Denver railroad executive whose family had helped develop the western cattle business, was fifth successive generation of his mother's Dennison family of early Colorado settlers to boast a physician.
        Despite his Colorado roots, he was educated in the East, first at Phillips Exeter Academy, then at Williams College, where he was valedictorian. He and a classmate, Richard M. Helms, director of Central Intelligence, helped pioneer a split English-history major that later became a Williams standard.
        A colorful member of the high-octane Harvard Medical School class of 1939, which produced 19 full professors and other leading physicians, Dr. Swan, once described by a classmate as a ''winner among winners,'' did his surgical residency at Boston's Children's Hospital. He joined  the Army in 1943, and 1,600 wounded soldiers ended up as his surgical patients.
        After a brief stint in private practice in Denver, he was recruited to the medical school, where he became the first full-time chairman of the department of surgery in 1950. By the time he stepped down in 1961 he had been credited with transforming the once sleepy surgical program into a dynamic center of medical innovation.
        Dr. Swan, recognizing the medical limits of hypothermia, continued his interest in the suspension of circulation. Suspecting that some animals secrete a brain hormone that acts as an agent to temporarily block metabolization, he studied hibernating bears, hummingbirds and various species of frogs, and even organized a research trip to Africa to study the lungfish, which spends the hot Egyptian summer buried deep in the bed of the Nile. The research, which has shown some promise, is being continued.
        His interest in animals also led him to develop a doctoral program in surgery for the Colorado State veterinary school.
        Dr. Swan long maintained an office in downtown Denver as a place to read and reflect on such passions as 16th-century music, gourmet cooking and fine wine. Nor was he afraid of following a new interest to extremes.
        There was the time, for example, when he was discovered by a friend in the early 1960's gazing out his office window with an sextant that had caught his eye at a surplus store and musing on sailing the Atlantic.
        For some, such a fantasy might have been a momentary diversion, but not for Dr. Swan. He almost immediately ordered a trimaran from Scotland, his wife recalled yesterday. And after their marriage in 1964, he sailed it home from Spain following Columbus's route to the New World.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children from a previous marriage, Gretchen Bering of Grand Junction, Colo., Edith Swan of Durango, Colo., and Henry 3d of Berkeley, Calif., five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      