
        Harold C. Fox, the Chicago clothier and sometime big-band trumpeter who claimed credit for creating and naming the zoot suit with the reet pleat, the reave sleeve, the ripe stripe, the stuff cuff and the drape shape that was the stage rage during the boogie-woogie rhyme time of the early 1940's, died on Sunday at his home in Siesta Key, Fla. He was 86.
        From the wide, padded shoulders and broad lapels of the long, billowing jacket to the ballooning high-waisted pants with the tourniquet-tight pegged cuffs and the inevitable long, looping watch chain, the zoot suit was an exaggerated fashion fad that not so much defined as defied an era of wartime conformity.
        Never mind that the zoot suit has been variously attributed to a Beale Street tailor named Louis Lettes and a Detroit retailer known as Nathan (Toddy) Elkus. Anyone who doubts that a fashion that became widely associated with black and Hispanic swells, World War II drugstore cowboys and Harvest Moon jitterbuggers was actually created by one man, even a trumpet-playing Chicago clothier who once took his own integrated band to the Apollo Theater in Harlem, wouldn't get much of an argument from Mr. Fox.
        For although the Fox version of the zoot suit gained fame as the eye-popping garb of choice of big-band musicians like Dizzy Gillespie, Louis Armstrong, Woody Herman, Stan Kenton and other customers of the Fox Brothers shop on Roosevelt Avenue, Mr. Fox graciously gave inspirational credit to slum-dwelling teen-agers.
        ''The zoot was not a costume or uniform from the world of entertainment,'' he once said. ''It came right off the street and out of the ghetto.''
        At the Henry Ford museum in Dearborn, Mich., where one of Mr. Fox's zoots is on display, the clothing curator Nancy Bryk said yesterday that the museum not only has hundreds of photographs of big-name entertainers wearing Fox creations but old black-and-white photos showing youngsters -- some as young as 8 -- proudly showing off their Fox zoots in front of the store.
        As he later told and retold the story, Mr. Fox, whose father operated a piece-goods woolen business in Chicago, had begun his life as a sort of itinerant musician and traveling salesman, occasionally making band uniforms from the bolts of cloth his father would send him.
        It was while working in New York in the late 1930's that he first got the idea for the zoot suit, he said. But it was not until he was summoned home to take over the family business after his father's death in 1941 that he put the idea into practice, dreaming up and sketching the designs and farming out the manufacturing to a couple known as Bill and Peanuts Fuchs.
        Mr. Fox began soliciting business from musician friends visiting Chicago and got his first big break when he received an emergency order for the Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance troupe and filled it in three days.
        As word of his speed and the flamboyance of his designs spread, Mr. Fox was besieged with orders.  Even so, he managed to make a brief return to music, playing with a local band led by Jimmy Dale and then, after Mr. Dale was drafted, taking over the band and the name.
        The zoot suit era was short-lived, its demise hastened by the Los Angeles zoot suit riots of 1942, which prompted the city council to consider an out-and-out ban on the suits the next year.
        Mr. Fox simply reversed course and started turning out what he called the icicle, a shapeless garment he later claimed was the model for the actually much older Brooks Brothers suit.
        Whatever the origins of the zoot suit, even the Merriam-Webster company accepted Mr. Fox's claim to the name.
        Mr. Fox, who said the name was chosen as a tribute to the rhyming slang used by many of his black customers, had a convincing explanation for why it did not become, say, ''doot suit,'' or ''loot suit, or ''moot suit.''
        At a time when the ultimate jive superlative was ''the end to all ends,'' he said, he simply went to the end of the alphabet and found the Z.
        Mr. Fox is survived by his wife, Marie; a son, Leo, of Orlando, Fla.; three daughters, Arlette Katz of Sherman Oaks, Calif., Sandra Monzo of Agoura Hills, Calif., and Audrey Gregory of San Bernadino, Calif.; a sister, Beatrice Gore of Chicago; eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      