
        Ellsworth Lester Raymond, a Soviet-era Kremlinologist who served at the United States Embassy in Moscow during World War II and taught for 29 years at New York University, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, his family said.
        Mr. Raymond served as a research analyst, political and economic adviser as well as chief translator in the embassy from 1938 to 1943. The experience left him highly critical of the Stalin Government.
        Born in Fort Ann, N.Y., he received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. He entered the Foreign Service and was sent to Moscow in 1938. After the German invasion in 1941 he was one of the embassy staff who accompanied the American Ambassador at the time, Adm. William H. Standley, to the provincial town of Kuybyshev once the Soviet capital came under siege.
        While in the provinces, he met and married a Russian ballet dancer, Anna Palasova. Over Soviet objections, he took her and their infant son back to the United States on a Navy vessel through submarine-infested waters in 1943.
        He then went to work as a civilian for the Army, heading the Soviet economic section in military intelligence at the Army General Staff in Washington. But he was given to understand by his superiors that marrying a Soviet citizen had not been a wise career move; so he quit Goverment service and turned to academic life.
        Mr. Raymond joined the faculty of the department of politics at N.Y.U. in 1949 and eventually became a full professor and head of the Russian area studies. He retired in 1978, having been chosen for three years in a row as one of the ''Golden Dozen,'' an accolade bestowed by graduating seniors upon favorite teachers.
        He wrote ''The Soviet State'' (N.Y.U. Press; 2d ed., 1977), edited scholarly books and contributed articles to various publications and sections on Soviet affairs in the Americana and Colliers enyclopedias.
        Dr. Raymond's wife died in 1994 after 52 years of marriage. He is survived by a son, Alan G., of Manhattan; a daughter, Cathy Ann Raymond of Topanga, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      