
        Hernan Siles Zuazo, the former President of Bolivia who was one of the chief engineers in moving the country toward political freedom, died on Tuesday night at a hospital in Montevideo, Uruguay, where he lived in retirement. He was 83.
        The cause was an embolism in the lungs after a long illness, Guillermo Richter, Bolivia's Minister of Information, said yesterday.
        Mr. Siles, the son of a former President, served as President of his small, landlocked Andean country from 1956 to 1960 and from 1982 to 1985. Although marred by uncontrollable inflation, his second presidency restored democracy to Bolivia after nearly 18 years of military rule.
        President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada declared 30 days of national mourning in Bolivia, and Congress dedicated yesterday's session to Mr. Siles, whom the President described as an anchor of democracy.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Siles was considered one of Bolivia's elder statesmen. His father led the country from 1926 to 1930.
        In 1941 Mr. Siles, with Victor Paz Estenssoro, another former President, founded the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement. Mr. Siles was a leader of the 1952 revolution, which abolished a feudal system that had held the Indian population in poverty, nationalized major tin mines and brought universal suffrage.
        Before his first term in office, Mr. Siles served as Vice President from 1952 to 1956 under Mr. Paz Estenssoro, but the two later split. He also worked for The Associated Press as a translator in Buenos Aires from November 1947 to September 1948.
        During his first presidency, Mr. Siles focused on protecting the country's economic viability by acquiring loans from the International Monetary Fund and requesting aid from the United States.
        He set up an austere spending plan, cut back on some recently introduced social services, froze wages and invited American oil companies back into Bolivia. He quashed incipient strikes by countering them with personal hunger strikes, a ploy he would use throughout his presidencies.
        When Mr. Paz Estenssoro returned to the presidency in 1960, Mr. Siles served as Ambassador to Paraguay and to Spain. But he fled into exile in 1964 when Mr. Paz Estenssoro was deposed by a coup.
        It was during that period when the two parted political views, with Mr. Paz Estenssoro moving to the right of center and Mr. Siles to the left. In 1971, Mr. Siles formed the Leftist Nationalist Revolutionary Movement, which was widely supported by peasants.
        In 1980, Mr. Siles won the most votes in the general election, but a violent uprising forced him to leave the country again. He escaped to Peru by dressing as a peasant and crossing Lake Titicaca in a boat. Simmering pressures within the country and international threats forced the leaders to turn to democratic rule two years later, when Mr. Siles began his second term.
        Mr. Siles was jubilant when he was inaugurated on Oct. 10, 1982.
        ''We are going to construct a democracy with absolute liberty,'' he said. ''Those who do not believe in democracy and have interrupted it many times, depriving people of their liberties, should reflect and understand that their time has come to end.''
        But the term saw his political unraveling in a chaotic economic situation that threatened to bring the military out of the barracks again. Prices rose by more than 24,000 percent during his tenure because of a miscalculated austerity program, forcing his successor to impose rigorous economic controls.
        And though Bolivia was once the most important tin producer in the world, the collapse of international tin prices in 1985, coupled with Bolivia's inefficient production methods, made it more expensive to operate the mines than to leave them idle.
        But Mr. Siles saw some successes, including the capture and extradition of international terrorists and of Klaus Barbie, the Nazi war criminal.
        He tried to cooperate with the United States in fighting the traffic of cocaine. It was a difficult issue mostly because he had to defend the state-monopolized cultivation of the coca plant, which, as Mr. Siles once explained, ''from time immemorial has been chewed by our people to relieve pain.''
        Born in La Paz, Bolivia's capital, Mr. Siles was the illegitimate son of Hernando Siles Reyes, the last Republican President of Bolivia, who held office from 1926 to 1930, and Isabel Zuazo Cusicanqui. He was raised by his mother, and although he was not very close to his father, they maintained a cordial relationship.
        A half-brother, Luis Adolfo Siles Salinas, also served as Bolivia's President for five months in 1969.
        Mr. Siles died on Bolivia's Independence Day, exactly 11 years after he stepped down under fire as President. His body is expected to arrive in La Paz at noon today, with a funeral this afternoon.
        Mr. Siles is survived by his wife, Maria Teresa Ormachea del Carpio, and three daughters, Marcela, Ana Maria and Isabel.
      