
        Greg Morris, who as the electronics expert on ''Mission: Impossible'' was one of the first black actors to star in a hit television show, died yesterday at his home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 61.
        The cause of death not immediately known, but Mr. Morris had been suffering from lung and brain cancer in recent years, according to The Associated Press.
        Mr. Morris played the self-effacing Barney Collier on ''Mission: Impossible,'' which ran from 1966 to 1973. Earlier, he had appeared on ''Ben Casey,'' ''Dr. Kildare,'' ''The Dick Van Dyke Show'' and ''The Twilight Zone.'' Later in his career, he regularly appeared in the series ''Vegas.''
        Mr. Morris was born in Cleveland and spent part of his youth in New York, where his mother was a secretary to A. Philip Randolph, the black labor leader who helped found the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
        ''I always had an awareness of the black revolution,'' he told The Christian Science Monitor in 1970, at the peak of his fame. ''When I was a kid, 9 or 10, I used to walk down Seventh Avenue and 125th Street with a sandwich sign on my back that said 'Down With Jim Crow.' ''
        Mr. Morris attended Ohio State University and the University of Iowa, served in the Army for three years and worked as a wine steward before arriving in Hollywood in the early 1960's, after some minor theater work in Seattle.
        He once said that his years on ''Mission: Impossible'' were ''seven of the most fun years of my career.''
        ''If I had turned down the role, Geller was going to ask a blond, blue-eyed Scandinavian,'' he said, referring to the producer Bruce Geller.
        ''The part had nothing to do with the fact that I am black,'' he added. ''I was one of the first black actors in a series, but not the first. Ivan Dixon was in 'Hogan's Heroes,' and 'Cos' was in 'I Spy,' '' he noted, referring to the actor Bill Cosby.
        When a new movie version of ''Mission: Impossible'' was released earlier this year, Mr. Morris walked out less than half way through the film, according to The Associated Press. ''It's an abomination,'' he said of the film, which did not use any of the cast from the television series.
        Mr. Morris is survived by his wife, Lee, and three children, Phil, Linda and Iona.
      