
        Richard Upton, the man credited with turning the once sleepy New Hampshire primary into a quadrennial political extravaganza and a make-or-break test for Presidential hopefuls, died on Monday in Concord, N.H. He was 81 and a former speaker of the state's House of Representatives.
        New Hampshire had been holding national Presidential primaries since 1916, and since 1920 they had always been the first of the Presidential season. But until Mr. Upton had his brainstorm in 1949, they tended to be distinctly lackadaisical affairs in which the voters selected slates of delegates to the national nominating conventions, not the candidates, themselves.
        Although the candidates' names appeared at the end of a list of prospective delegates pledged to support them at the conventions, pledges made in the cold New Hampshire winter sometimes came unglued in the heat of an unfolding political campaign, and some slates ran as uncommitted delegates, asking New Hampshire voters to trust them to make the right deals at the smoke-filled convention rooms.
        Mr. Upton's innovation, which took effect in 1952, was to create a separate column listing the candidates, making the primary a true test of their personal standings with the voters.
        To hear him tell it, and as the acknowledged ''father of the New Hampshire primary,'' he was called on to tell it often over the years, the only thing Mr. Upton had in mind in 1949 was to bring the primary closer to the voters and increase turnout, not to create a political and media frenzy that turns the national spotlight on New Hampshire every four years and pumps some $30 million into the state economy.
        By his own measure, the Upton primary has been a resounding success. It regularly attracts 80 percent or more of party enrollees, a good 20 points more than its closest rivals.
        As the first real primary (a week after the Iowa caucuses) the New Hampshire primary has also exerted enormous influence on Presidential politics, so much so that from 1952, when Dwight D. Eisenhower began his road to the White House by beating Senator Robert Taft of Ohio in the first Upton primary, until Bill Clinton sneaked into the White House after placing second to Paul E. Tsongas in New Hampshire, not a single man had been elected President without first winning the New Hampshire primary.
        For all that, it's influence was perhaps most evident in smashing the political ambitions of an incumbent President who actually won the primary. That was in 1968, when Eugene McCarthy made such a strong second-place showing behind President Lyndon B. Johnson (who had clinched the 1964 nomination after winning the New Hampshire primary as a write-in candidate, albeit an incumbent President) and Mr. Johnson withdrew from the race in favor of his Vice President, Hubert H. Humphrey, who won the Democratic nomination but lost the election to the Republican winner in New Hampshire, Richard M. Nixon.
        In a state in which legislators are unpaid volunteers and government service is sometimes still viewed as a civic responsibility, not a career, Mr. Upton was a citizen statesman with a capital C.
        After three terms in the legislature, including one as speaker of the House, he retired to his family and his law practice, always subject to the call of pubic duty. In both 1964 and 1984, for example, he served as chairman of state constitutional conventions, becoming the only man in New Hampshire to preside over two such conventions.
        A member of an old New Hampshire family, Mr. Upton, whose father served an interim term as United States Senator, represented a distinct version of the Yankee stereotype, in his case one whose flinty upbringing included polishing stops at Exeter, Dartmouth and the Harvard Law School.
        Two years after receiving his law degree in 1938, Mr. Upton was elected to the House, but left after one term to serve in the Army Air Corps in World War II.
        Returning to New Hampshire in 1946, he was re-elected to the House, where his Republican colleagues had been so impressed with his fair and even-handed approach to politics that they promptly made him majority leader. Two years later, at the age of 34, he was elected Speaker.
        It was then he had his brainstorm and the power to make it happen, typically shunning the limelight. Because of a New Hampshire tradition in which Speakers try to maintain at least a semblance of independence by not introducing or championing legislation, the primary reform measure, which eventually passed both houses and was signed into law by a somewhat skeptical governor, Sherman Adams, was originally introduced by Reuben Moore.
        Mr. Upton's surviviors include two sons, Bill, of Concord, N.H., and Matthew of Northbridge, N.H.
      