
        Michael M. Rea, an art collector and publisher who established the Rea Award for the Short Story, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington, Conn. Mr. Rea, who also had a home in Palm Beach, Fla., was 69.
        His wife, the former Elizabeth Richebourg, a photographer, said the cause was cardiac arrest.
        Mr. Rea (pronounced RAY), a collector of first-edition American short stories, founded the annual Rea Award in 1986. Intended to honor living American writers who have made a significant contribution to the short story form, it carries a $30,000 prize.
        Recipients include Cynthia Ozick, Robert Coover, Donald Barthelme, Tobias Wolff, Joyce Carol Oates, Paul Bowles, Eudora Welty, Grace Paley, Tillie Olsen, Richard Ford and Andre Dubus.
        The award is financed by Mr. Rea's Dungannon Foundation, which also supports writers-in-residence programs at colleges and universities. Mr. Rea was a trustee of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and the Norton Museum of Art in Palm Beach, and a former trustee of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington.
        Mr. Rea, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass., joined the Marine Corps at 17 and served in north China during World War II. He graduated from the University of Virginia in 1952 with a bachelor's degree in English.
        He began his career in Pittsburgh in advertising and public relations, then became a commercial real estate owner and developer in Pittsburgh and Washington. Through his company, Harrea Broadcasters, he owned radio stations in Harrisburg, York and State College, Pa., before he retired from broadcasting in 1983.
        Among other works, his publishing company, Sweetwater Editions, issued a new edition of Isaac Bashevis Singer's first novel, ''Satan in Goray.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Rea is survived by a son, Kevin Oliver Rea of Sewickley, Pa.; two daughters, Rives Rea Yost of Sewickley and Robinson Moorhead Rea of Venice, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      