
        Frank Marcus, a playwright best known as the author of ''The Killing of Sister George,'' which was a success both in London and on Broadway, died on Monday in London. He was 68.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, The Times of London reported.
        Controversial in its time, ''Sister George'' dealt with a lesbian love affair between the star of a radio soap opera and her childlike young companion. As performed by Beryl Reid and Eileen Atkins, the play ran for 205 performances on Broadway in 1966. It was subsequently made into a Robert Aldrich film starring Ms. Reid and Susannah York. Mr. Marcus wrote more than 20 other plays, but none was as popular as ''Sister George.'' As in that play, his principal subject was women in love.
        Mr. Marcus was also a theater critic, reviewing for The Sunday Telegraph in London for 10 years and contributing reviews and essays to other publications in the United States and Britain. He also wrote plays for television and radio and worked as an actor and director.
        After a year at the Telegraph, he wrote an article looking back on his critical record. With characteristic candidness, he said, ''I find that I have been tolerant of roughness, obscurity and boredom in experimental performances, provided there was passion and seriousness of purpose, and hard on self-indulgence and compromise.'' He added that after many nights on the aisle, he was ''grateful for sheer competence.''
        Mr. Marcus could be as demanding on himself as he was on his peers. With tongue in cheek, he reviewed his own play ''Mrs. Mouse, Are You Within?'' in 1968 without identifying himself as the playwright. Assuming the tone of an outraged puritan, he described the scandalous behavior of the characters and said that in his day, the author ''would have been horsewhipped.''
        He was born in Breslau, Germany, and emigrated to England with his parents in 1939. His first play, ''Minuet for Stuffed Birds,'' was produced in London in 1950. He married the show's leading lady, Jacqueline Sylvester. She died in 1993.
        His first success was ''The Formation Dancers,'' in 1964, followed by ''Sister George.'' His other plays included ''Cleo,'' ''Studies of the Nude'' and ''Notes on a Love Affair'' (Irene Worth starred in the London production), and adaptations of plays by Arthur Schnitzler and Ferenc Molnar, both of whom influenced his own work.
        He is survived by a son and two daughters.
      