
        Lester Leber, a leading figure in the advertising industry, died on Monday at his home in Key Largo, Fla. He was 83.
        Mr. Leber died of a stroke, said his daughter, Laura Leber Wood.
        Regarded as one of the shrewdest people of his time on Madison Avenue, Mr. Leber and his partner, Stanley Katz, formed Leber Katz Partners in 1954. Over the next three decades, their agency grew to lead the industry, with worldwide billings of more than $550 million.
        Their clients included the Marriott Corporation, A.T. &T., Corning, Avon, Johnson & Johnson and Colgate-Palmolive. Among the clients Mr. Leber served himself were RJR Nabisco, Lowenbrau Beer, Revlon, Kay Jewelry Stores, Utica Mutual Insurance and U.S. Shoe.
        In 1986, the company merged with Foote, Cone & Belding Communications in Chicago, and it is now known as FCB/Leber Katz Partners.
        His favorite campaign was a pitch for Lowenbrau that said: ''When you're out of Lowenbrau, go buy champagne.'' To show that Free-Flex shoes were soft, Mr. Leber pictured a bent black-leather men's dress shoe pressing against an unbroken egg.
        Even after his retirement in 1972, Mr. Leber remained a crucial player in the agency's growth. He was chairman and directed the agency's expansion into Europe and Latin America.
        Mr. Leber was born in Newark and grew up in the Bronx. After graduating from Columbia University in 1934, he worked in advertising in New York. During World War II, Mr. Leber was in the Navy, where he edited the Pac-Fleet Bulletin, the base newspaper at Pearl Harbor in Honolulu.
        Mr. Leber is survived by his wife, Magdalena, of Key Largo.
        His marriage to Ruth Schwarz Leber ended in divorce in 1965. He is survived by her and their three children, Mrs. Wood of Austin, Tex., Frederick Leber of Budapest, and Daniel Leber of Seattle, and three grandchildren.
        Also surviving him are six stepchildren: Michael Veigel of San Juan, P.R.; Jeanine Veigel of Atlanta; Charles Stierlen of Brandon, Fla.; Madeleine Gugliemeno of Lima, Peru; Constance Stierlen of Atlanta and Catherine Stierlen, also of Brandon.
      