
        Robert H. Clampitt, the founder and president of Children's Express, a nationwide children's news service, died yesterday in Washington. He was 69.
        The cause was heart failure, according to Children's Express.
        Children's Express is a nonprofit, syndicated news service training children from 8 to 18 to be reporters and editors. Mr. Clampitt, who was a lawyer, devoted more than 20 years to the organization.
        He founded Children's Express in 1975. Initially, the young reporters covered such subjects as hang-gliding and white-water rafting. At the 1976 Democratic Convention they began focusing on adult journalists and politicians. One young reporter came up with a scoop: Jimmy Carter's choice of Walter Mondale as his Vice-Presidential candidate. The Mondale story put Children's Express on the media map.
        Since then, the group has covered every national political convention, with reporters under 13 working with older teen-age editors. Representatives of the organization have appeared on many network television shows and inspired three books (including ''Voices From the Future: Our Children Tell Us About Violence in America'') and a series on Public Television that won both an Emmy and a Peabody award.
        More than 3,500 children have taken part in Children's Express, which has operated bureaus throughout the United States and in London, Tokyo, Melbourne, Australia, and Wellington, New Zealand. In 1980, two reporters and an editor from Children's Express, accompanied by Mr. Clampitt, visited refugee camps in Thailand and Cambodia, interviewing doctors, nurses and refugees.
        Mr. Clampitt was born in St. Petersburg, Fla. Without a high school diploma, he enrolled at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and eventually graduated cum laude. Later he graduated from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. After working as lawyer with a Wall Street firm and as a public defender, he held government positions in the Peace Corps, Head Start, Job Corps, Vista and other programs. He was founder and president of United States R&D Corporation, a national job-training organization.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan, of Washington; a daughter, Lisa, and a son, Bryan, both of New York City; a stepson, Adam, of Washington; a sister, Martha McKay of Raleigh, N.C., and St. Petersburg, and a brother, John, of Farmington Hills, Mich.
      