
        Leo Plowden McLaughlin, a onetime Jesuit priest who spent four heady years as an innovative president of Fordham University in the 1960's, died on Thursday at an infirmary on the Fordham campus in the Bronx. He was 84 and had ended his academic career as a teacher at Ramapo College in New Jersey.
        Dr. McLaughlin was the Jesuit answer to the 1960's. As a transforming president of Fordham from 1965 to 1969, he opened up the curriculum beyond traditional theological courses, encouraged academic experimentation, fought for higher faculty salaries even as he was turning the established Jesuit faculty inside out, brought Marshall McLuhan to Fordham as a professor and even wrested the university from Jesuit control.
        If he shocked some Jesuit sensibilities, Dr. McLaughlin had given fair warning. As a pupil at the Jesuit-run Loyola prep school in Manhattan, for example, he was so highly visible, a classmate once recalled, that just about any time a student looked up from his books he would see Leo McLaughlin being ordered out ''for doing or saying something dangerous.''
        And by the time he became president of Fordham, the Jesuit hierarchy had had plenty of time to size him up.
        After Loyola, Dr. McLaughlin, whose father was a lawyer, received further Jesuit instruction at Georgetown. He joined the order after spending his junior year at the Sorbonne, and later received a doctorate from the University of Paris.
        Working his way up through the Jesuit academic ranks, he spent nine years as a Fordham teacher and administrator, specializing in communications and helping to energize the student radio station, and a year as president of St. Peter's College in Jersey City before taking over as president and rector of Fordham.
        At a time of intellectual and social ferment, Dr. McLaughlin established his credentials as a man of the times, not only devoting a full morning a week to meeting with students and listening to their ideas but spending a good part of the rest of the week working to put many of them, plus a few of his own, into effect.
        ''New ideas,'' he once said. ''That's all that counts in today's world, new ideas -- and so few people have them.''
        Dr. McLaughlin's overriding idea was to transform Fordham from a somewhat sleepy and hidebound religious college into a vibrant academic colossus.
        Within two years, Dr. McLaughlin was being credited with bringing about some of the most significant and controversial changes in the college's history. But none were as momentous as the one he engineered before leaving the presidency to become chancellor at the start of 1969.
        As part of the change in administration, Fordham's governing board was restructured so that for the first time a majority of the trustees were not Jesuit priests and some of the lay members were not even Catholic.
        As chancellor, Dr. McLaughlin, whose reforms had been criticized as too expensive, found himself a full-time fund raiser, a role he did not relish. In 1970 he stepped down to become director of freshman studies at Johnson C. Smith University, a predominantly black college in Charlotte, N.C.
        Attributing the move to a desire to get close to students again, he stayed for two years before joining the faculty at Ramapo College, where he remained until he suffered a stroke in the late 1980's.
        Dr. McLaughlin, who had regularly made headlines during his tenure at Fordham, made them again in 1975 when, at the age of 61, he announced that the previous June he had married Sari Gombos, a 26-year-old writer he had met at a Fordham party several years earlier.
        Although he had applied for release from his vows, Dr. McLaughlin, who had stopped celebrating Mass a year earlier as he confronted his growing desire to marry, said he had gone through with the marriage even without a response.
        Why had he not waited?
        ''Impatience, I guess,'' he said. ''I'm not young, and a year is a long time to wait.''
        Relatives, recalling the McLaughlins as a loving couple, said the family swallowed hard but came to accept his decision. So, apparently, did the Jesuits.
        After the death of his wife in 1994, Dr. McLaughlin, who needed full-time care, was admitted to a Jesuit nursing home, where he spent his last months surrounded by contemporaries and classmates. He is survived by a sister, Joan Schumacher of Pittsburgh.
      