
        Sigmund Koch, a psychologist and philosopher who put together a widely recognized multivolume work assessing the state of psychology at mid-century, and then turned from those mainstream theories to espouse a less reductionist and more humanistic approach, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Brookline, Mass. He was 79 and lived in nearby Wellesley, Mass.
        Dr. Koch, a University Professor at Boston University, spent much of his career using brisk analyses and a biting wit to critique those who sought insight into the human condition by, as he described it, watching rats negotiate mazes -- the behaviorists -- even though he began his psychology research as one of their number.
        Dr. Daniel N. Robinson, chairman of the psychology department at Georgetown University, described Dr. Koch's change in direction this way: ''As he inhaled the toxins of a simplistic psychology, he exhaled some of the finest criticism that the discipline would produce.''
        The latter part of Dr. Koch's career was devoted to building bridges between psychology and the humanities, seeking what he called a ''deeper human context.'' He built an archive of videotaped interviews in which he spent hours with artists from various fields, seeking to understand the creative impulse. His subjects included the novelists Saul Bellow and Toni Morrison, the playwrights Edward Albee and Arthur Miller, and composers, choreographers and performers.
        But it was perhaps his critical analyses that brought Dr. Koch the most attention.
        ''There was nothing dry about Koch,'' said Dr. Frank Kessel, a program director at the Social Science Research Council and a longtime friend. ''His use of the language was extraordinary. The mainstream didn't exactly find Koch endearing because he was so sharply critical in such a passionate way. It's ironic because he edited the volumes that encapsulated the field.''
        As a teen-ager, Sigmund Koch hoped to be a writer, perhaps a poet, but he put those ambitions aside to pursue a scientific career, studying philosophy and psychology at New York University, and receiving a master's degree from the University of Iowa in 1939 and a Ph.D. from Duke University in 1942.
        While he was teaching at Duke in 1952, the American Psychological Association asked him to compile a work that would be, in effect, a status report on the field. As the editor and project director, he published the six-volume ''Psychology: A Study of a Science'' (McGraw-Hill) from 1959 to 1963, and also contributed to it.
        Even as he worked on the project, however, Dr. Koch was yearning to move psychology closer to the humanities. He said later that the study, known worldwide, gave him the credentials he needed to challenge accepted approaches in the field and to try new directions.
        ''Could I have allowed my thinking to become quite outre, if not for the respectability loaned me by association with that augustly sponsored and glittering enterprise?'' he asked in a speech to the psychological association in 1977.
        He wound up as part of the world of artists and writers when he served as director of the Program in the Humanities and the Arts for the Ford Foundation from 1964 to 1967. That whetted his appetite for understanding the urge to create.
        He compiled his film archive of writers and artists from 1983 to 1988 at Boston University. In 1992 he said  that in the 17 8-to-10-hour videotape productions that resulted, he found that creativity had common characteristics across the different fields.
        With all the subjects, Dr. Koch said, ''the self disappears'' in the act of creating art. He said that everyone was capable of reaching such heightened mental states but that ''few have learned to husband them for creative purposes, and some do not even note the difference between this condition and their more usual goal-oriented daily striving.''
        While he sought less rigid avenues for psychological research, he was skeptical of approaches he considered simplistic, and he became a caustic public critic of the encounter movement popular in the 1960's and 1970's. He was always suspicious of ''some idea that there would be some kind of trendy theory that would take account of everything in the universe,'' Dr. Robinson said.
        Dr. Koch is survived by a son, John, of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Katherine, of Highland Park, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      