
        Eleazar de Carvalho, the Brazilian conductor, composer and teacher who enjoyed long associations with major American symphony orchestras and music schools, died on Thursday night at his home in Sao Paulo. He died of cancer, said his wife, Sonia Muniz. He was 84.
        Mr. de Carvalho was the artistic director for life of the Sao Paulo Symphony Orchestra and professor emeritus of the Yale School of Music.
        He first came to attention in the United States in 1946 as a student of Serge Koussevitzky at Tanglewood, the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. In 1948 Mr. de Carvalho and two other Koussevitzky proteges, Leonard Bernstein and Robert Shaw, were given opportunities to conduct the orchestra at Tanglewood. Comparing Mr. de Carvalho and Bernstein, the New York Times critic Olin Downes wrote that the Brazilian ''may prove to be the profounder of the two.''
        Though outside of Brazil, Mr. de Carvalho never achieved the renown of Bernstein or Mr. Shaw, his career was full and impressive. His association with the Boston Symphony lasted through 1965. He often conducted the New York, Los Angeles, Berlin and Vienna Philharmonic Orchestras. He was the music director of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra from 1963 to 1968.
        But he may have had his most lasting impact as a teacher. His students included Seiji Ozawa, Claudio Abbado, Charles Dutoit, David Zinman, Zubin Mehta and Gustav Meier. In addition to his work at Tanglewood and Yale, he taught at Hofstra University and Juilliard.
        His friend and colleague at Yale, the cellist Aldo Parisot, recalled their meeting in 1940, when both played in the Brazilian Symphony Orchestra in Rio de Janeiro. Mr. de Carvalho was a tuba player, Mr. Parisot said, because tuba players had little to do and he could watch the conductor and take notes.
        ''He was the best conductor Brazil ever produced,'' Mr. Parisot added, and taught other fine Brazilian conductors.
        Besides his wife, Mr. de Carvalho is survived by a son, Serge; the daughter, Claudia, of his wife from her previous marriage, and a son, also named Eleazar, from his previous marriage to Jocy de Oliveira, a Brazilian pianist and composer.
      