
        Maurice Milton Feldman, one of the cadre of highly educated Depression-era recruits who ran New York City's municipal services with rare professional distinction for decades, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 81 and had been an acting sanitation commissioner and a commissioner of water resources.
        His daughter, Naomi Collins, said the cause was complications from an inflamed ulcer.
        They called them the Depression virtuosos, and the name was as well chosen as the range of their talents. In one of those perverse proofs of the law of supply and demand, the Depression, so ruinous for the national economy, was a personnel bonanza for New York City government.
        It was a grim index of the imbalance between the supply of labor and the demand for workers at the time that when the city advertised some openings for $840-a-year clerks in 1935, 14,000 applicants showed up to take the Civil Service exam.
        And of the 3,000 who received qualifying grades, 2,000 were college graduates. One was a City College chemistry junior who had been blithely working his way through school by playing the bass violin when he concluded that his dream of using a college degree to rise above his Lower East Side tenement beginnings was a chimera.
        ''The unemployment rate for chemists with bachelor's degrees,'' Mr. Feldman recalled years later, ''was about 95 percent.''
        Mr. Feldman, who spent most of his career with the Sanitation Department, rose steadily and rapidly through the ranks, thanks in part to his test-taking abilities. He calculated that he took 20 promotion tests between 1946 and 1950.
        By then, the senior ranks of city agencies were thick with Depression-era recruits.
        At the very time Mayor John V. Lindsay was upgrading the corps of city managers by hiring respected industry executives and retired military officers, the home-honed Mr. Feldman was holding down three high-level jobs: deputy sanitation commissioner in charge of engineering, deputy general manager in charge of water pollution control for the Department of Public Works and, for a heady six months in 1968, acting sanitation commissioner.
        Mayor Lindsay, who gave Mr. Feldman the temporary additional assignment in December 1967, after the retired Navy man he had picked for the job fell ill, was so impressed with his quiet, unassuming efficiency, especially in the aftermath of a 19-day sanitation strike, that he tried to persuade him to accept the post permanently.
        Mr. Feldman would have none of it. ''I'm an engineer,'' he said. ''They might as well make me Ambassador to China.''
        Mr. Lindsay relented. In June, he named Mr. Feldman Commissioner of the newly organized Department of Water Resources, a precursor of the Department of Environmental Protection. Mr. Feldman held the post until his retirement in 1971.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Bethesda, Md., Mr. Feldman is survived by a son, Eugene, of Granby, Conn.; a sister, Mae Reisman of Lakehurst, N.J., and four grandsons.
      