
        Anselm L. Strauss, an internationally known sociologist who developed an influential and pragmatic approach to social science studies and used it to examine such subjects as how hospitals deal with dying patients, died on Sept. 5 in San Francisco. He was 79 and lived there.
        He suffered a heart attack, said the University of California at San Francisco, where he was emeritus professor of sociology.
        In a long career, Dr. Strauss gained a reputation as an innovative thinker. He helped found the field of medical sociology, made important contributions to other branches of sociology, including urban and social psychology, and trained generations of researchers. He wrote or edited more than 30 books, often working with collaborators, and continued to write prolifically at an age when many scholars have retired.
        A colleague at the university, Adele E. Clarke, an associate professor of sociology, said Dr. Strauss told her when she was 39 and just finishing her studies for a Ph.D. that he had not written anything worthwhile until he was over 40.
        ''What he didn't know or say then,'' Dr. Clarke added, ''was that he would publish at least a book per year after he turned 70.''
        Dr. Strauss was known for developing, with another sociologist, Barney Glaser, a research method called grounded theory that has been widely adopted in sociology and many of the applied social sciences like education. Using this approach, a researcher inductively develops concepts from empirical data and forms a theory.
        ''The idea was that you develop sociological theories kind of from the bottom up, based on what you observed, rather than from first principles,'' said Howard S. Becker, a professor of sociology at the University of Washington who had collaborated with Dr. Strauss.
        Dr. Strauss was one of the first sociologists to study dying and how it was handled in hospitals.
        ''What he was mainly concerned with was how the way people died was shaped by the exigencies of hospital organizations,'' Dr. Becker said. ''You die the way the hospital is prepared to have you die.''
        In one study, Dr. Strauss and his colleagues concluded, ''Our hospitals are admirably arranged, both by accident and design, to hide medical information from patients.'' But they added that a dying patient should realize that a conspiracy of silence was itself a signal that something was wrong.
        Based on long hours of observation with his colleagues, Dr. Strauss wrote ''Awareness of Dying'' (1965), and was co-author, with Dr. Glaser, of ''Time for Dying'' (1968) and ''Anguish: A Case History of a Dying Trajectory'' (1970).
        Many of Dr. Strauss's earlier books remain in print, including the influential ''Social Psychology'' (1949), written with Alfred Lindesmith and now in its ninth edition, and ''Mirrors and Masks: The Search for Identity'' (1959).
        In his studies of chronic pain, Dr. Strauss said the medical system did not pay enough attention to it. He also studied chronic illness, psychiatric practice, the organization of medical care and medical risks.
        Anselm Leonard Strauss was born on Dec. 18, 1916, in New York City. He received a bachelor's degree at the University of Virginia and a master's degree and Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Chicago. He taught at Lawrence College in Wisconsin, Indiana University and the University of Chicago before directing research at the Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago from 1958 to 1960.
        He then moved to the University of California at San Francisco to teach research methods in a new doctoral program in nursing. By 1968, he had founded a full-fledged doctoral program in sociology, of which he was the chairman for many years. He reached emeritus status in 1987 but continued his research.
        Dr. Strauss is survived by his wife of 56 years, Frances, and several nephews and nieces.
      