
        Arthur Leff, who rendered some of the first interpretations of the National Labor Relations Act and the Taft-Hartley law as an administrative law judge for the National Labor Relations Board, died on Sunday at the Medbridge-Wheaton Nursing Home in Wheaton, Md., a suburb of Washington. He was 88.
        In a 39-year career with the labor relations board that ended with his retirement in 1981, Mr. Leff was chief counsel to the chairman from 1963 to 1970 and the agency's chief administrative law judge from 1970 to 1981. In that capacity, he headed a corps of more than 100 judges who held hearings and issued decisions in cases involving complaints of unfair labor practices. From time to time, Mr. Leff, on loan, heard cases for the Federal Reserve Board and for the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Administrative law judges were known as trial examiners when Mr. Leff gave up the private practice of law in New York City in 1942 to join the labor board in Washington. Trial examiners were the judges with initial jurisdiction over violations of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, popularly known as the Wagner Act. When the Wagner Act was amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, better known as the Taft-Hartley law, the trial examiners faced a stream of new cases.
        Their rulings were usually reviewed by the National Labor Relations Board, appealed before a Circuit Court and carried in many cases to the Supreme Court.
        But these cases first went before examiners like Mr. Leff, who was esteemed for his analytical and literary abilities.
        In one of his most prominent rulings, in 1954, Mr. Leff recommended the invalidation of an election among longshoremen in the Port of New York on grounds that supporters of the International Longshoremen's Association had engaged in beatings, stabbings and intimidation. In 1963, he found that the General Electric Company had failed to bargain in good faith in 1960 with the International Union of Electrical Workers, with a pattern of conduct that included a take-it-or-leave-it settlement offer.
        In earlier notable cases, he ruled that officers of the International Typographical Union and members of the Brotherhood of Electrical Workers had violated provisions of the Taft-Hartley law.
        Mr. Leff grew up in the Borough Park section of Brooklyn, where he was born. At Cornell University, he earned a bachelor of arts degree in 1929 and a law degree in 1930.
        Mr. Leff is survived by a daughter, Joanna Pinsky of Evanston, Ill.; a sister, Florence Davis of West Palm Beach, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      