
        Gordon Stein, who made the celebration of secular humanism and the exposure of spiritualism and secular hoaxes the focus of his work as a librarian, bibliographer, author and editor, died on Aug. 27 at a Buffalo hospital. He was 55 and the director of libraries at the Center for Inquiry in the Buffalo suburb of Amherst.
        The cause was lung cancer, colleagues said.
        Although he made his living at various times as a municipal librarian, university bibliographer and college teacher, Mr. Stein had a lifelong passion for humanism, a loosely knit movement whose followers reject religious dogmas and their supposed supernatural origins while holding that simple rational thought provides sufficient and compelling underpinning for moral and ethical systems.
        He also had a fascination for the varieties of spiritual and other hoaxes that have been perpetuated over the centuries, sometimes innocently by those who mistake the wind for ghosts, sometimes fraudulently by con artists pretending to communicate with the dead.
        Indeed, by the time he was hired in 1993, Mr. Stein had read and written so widely and collected so many books on the subjects that he was considered the ideal man to assemble the libraries at the Center for Inquiry, the headquarters of two independent organizations founded by Paul Kurtz, a former University of Buffalo philosophy professor.
        One, the Council for Democratic and Secular Humanism, promotes humanism, and the other, the Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, specializes in investigating and generally debunking everything from seances to alien abductions.
        In addition to assembling libraries for the two nonprofit groups, Mr. Stein worked as a senior editor of the council's quarterly, Free Inquiry, and was a frequent contributor to the committee's bimonthly publication, Skeptical Inquirer. He also edited his own magazine, The American Rationalist, and turned out a series of books for the Kurtz house, Prometheus Press, among them ''The Sorcerer of Kings,'' a 1993 biography of a notorious 19th-century spiritualist medium; the ''Encyclopedia of Hoaxes,'' (1993) and ''The Encyclopedia of the Paranormal'' (1996).
        At the Center for Inquiry, where he was known for his scholarship, wit and ready repartee, Mr. Stein was considered an intensely private man, so much so that it was only after his death that his colleagues learned the extent of his formal education.
        Besides a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Rochester and a doctorate in physiology from Ohio State, he held three master's degrees, one from Adelphi (zoololgy) and two from the University of California at Los Angeles (management and library science).
        It was a measure of the breadth of his reading that Mr. Stein, who spent four years as a bibliographer and assistant professor in the health sciences department at the University of Rhode Island, once estimated that he had written 600 book reviews, mainly for humanist and rationalist publications.
        Before joining the Center for Inquiry, he had also written a biography of Rogert G. Ingersoll, the great 19th-century agnostic, and edited several collections, among them ''An Anthology of Atheism and Rationalism'' and ''The Encyclopedia of Unbelief.''
        Mr. Stein, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by a daughter, Karen, of Atlanta, and a sister, Irna Jay of Baltimore.
      