
        Former President Ernesto Geisel, the Brazilian military dictator associated with the gradual reopening of Brazil to the outside world, died in a Rio clinic today. He was 88.
        A stern figure whose father immigrated from Germany at the turn of the century, General Geisel was the fourth of five military leaders during the dictatorship that ran Brazil from 1964 to 1985.
        Stirrings toward democracy were evident during his administration, which ran from 1974 to 1979, and he called his policy a ''slow, gradual and sure relaxation'' of military authority. But he made frequent recourse to the repressive powers vested in him as the head of a military state.
        Two years after General Geisel took office, he shut down an already weak Congress after the opposition party blocked a bill he had presented on judicial reform. A few months later, Congress was back at work, but the pro-Government majority party passed a law restricting the speech of candidates in coming elections.
        Walder de Goes, a Brasilia-based political consultant and author of ''The Brazil of General Geisel,'' said the former leader's authoritarian bent was typified by his reaction when his Finance Minister, Mario Henrique Simonsen, told him he wanted to resign. General Geisel turned his minister away with the scalding admonition, ''The day I don't need you anymore, I'll be the one to tell you.''
        ''He was probably the President with the single greatest awareness of his own power,'' Mr. de Goes said.
        General Geisel's administration was not notable for the widespread use of torture and the large number of unexplained killings that tarnished the tenure of his predecessor, Gen. Emilio Medici, largely because the dictatorship's perceived enemies had already been silenced or killed by the time he took office, Mr. de Goes said.
        General Geisel, who had been president of the state petroleum company, Petrobras, took office as the so-called ''Brazilian miracle'' of economic growth was winding down. He faced the world petroleum crisis, increasing Brazil's foreign debt to pay for oil imports. He also increased the state's role in industry and production and concentrated the country's budget on developing communications, railroads, ports and shipping.
        He also reduced the traditional trade dependence of Brazil on Europe and the United States, increasing its trade with Africa and Asia. He signed a $10 billion contract with Germany to build eight nuclear power plants to lessen the country's dependence on foreign energy sources, though the plan was severely criticized.
        Even after he was succeeded by another general, Joao Figueiredo, who completed the transition to democracy, General Geisel remained a respected figure. President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who has been wrestling with military dissatisfaction as Brazil begins to recognize and compensate the victims of military repression during the dictatorship, made it a point to visit General Geisel in recent weeks.
        In a statement today, Mr. Cardoso praised General Geisel, whose political presence, he said, ''was marked by his efforts to end repression, and his determination to bring Brazil back to democracy in what seemed to him the most appropriate way.''
      