
        Nicholas Wahl, an American political scientist who turned his Institute of French Studies at New York University into a magnet for droves of French political scholars, French journalists and French politicians, died yesterday at a hospital in London, where he had been living during a sabbatical. He was 68 and lived on Washington Square.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        If the West Fourth Street stop on the IND has sometimes seemed an extension of the Paris Metro, there is a reason. For if there was ever a scholar doing the right research in the right place at the right time, it was Mr. Wahl in the mid-1950's.  Studying for a Ph.D. at Harvard, he had gone to Paris to flesh out his thesis on the rivalry that had developed between the expatriate Free French and the homebound resistance during World War II and had continued into the Fourth Republic.
        His research included a series of interviews with Charles de Gaulle, who as an opposition figure had plenty of time for an engaging young American scholar with a surprisingly deep understanding of the postwar French political landscape.
        Mr. Wahl spent even more time charming and impressing the coterie of young lawyers and others who had gravitated to the de Gaulle camp, so much so that when de Gaulle was swept into power in 1958 and his young followers were suddenly catapulted into the forefront of French politics, Mr. Wahl found himself a scholar on the inside of the political history he was studying.
        In one case that became a family legend, the young de Gaulle aide assigned to draft the constitution for the Fifth Republic used to sneak away for long drives in the country with Mr. Wahl, who became a sounding board and an unofficial adviser to the Gaullist Government, even as his friend, Michel Debre, was being elevated to Prime Minister.
        The friendships with French political figures he made in Paris in the 1950's and those he added in the following decades served Mr. Wahl well throughout his academic career, first at Harvard, then at Princeton and since 1978 at N.Y.U.
        Although he rarely published, Mr. Wahl, a perfectionist who insisted on accumulating masses of research material before beginning a new course, was widely recognized both in the United States and France as a leading expert on French politics.
        Leading French scholars rarely turned down an opportunity to teach at the institute.
        Among Mr. Wahl's friends who lectured at the institute were Mr. Debre; Francois Mitterrand, the French President who died last year, and, in one memorable encounter, Jacques Chirac, then the Mayor of Paris and now the French President.
        When Mr. Chirac chauvinistically proclaimed Paris cleaner than New York, Mr. Wahl, a chauvinistic New Yorker, cross-examined him for half an hour, forcing him to acknowledge that Paris received far greater subsidies from the central government than New York did.
        Mr. Wahl, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his second wife, Charlotte Johnson, a British-born painter; four children from her previous marriage, Leo Johnson of Washington and Rachel Dawnay, Alexander Johnson and Joseph Johnson, all of London; and four grandchildren.
      