
        Jacques Minkus, the Polish-born entrepreneur who gave the once-patrician hobby of stamp collecting its  mass-market reach, died on Tuesday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 94 and had operated his stamp shop, the nation's largest, at the old Gimbels department store for more than 50 years.
        A rabbi's son who had to give up his own dream of becoming a rabbi at age 13 when his parents died within six months of each other, forcing him to support himself, Mr. Minkus had tried a variety of occupations before discovering the potential of stamps.
        In a peripatetic life, he scrubbed floors in Poland, set type in Germany and became a small-time publisher in France, turning out miniature dictionaries and other reference books in Paris.
        Although he sometimes claimed that he had begun dabbling in stamps by visiting the shops on the Champs-Elysees, Mr. Minkus was never really a collector. He was a businessman who recognized an opportunity when he saw it.
        And the opportunity he saw after coming to the United States in 1929  made him a fortune and changed the face of stamp collecting and stamp retailing in the United States.
        The way he told it, Mr. Minkus and his brother, Morris, were publishing miniature dictionaries for sale in chain stores across the country when a stamp dealer showed him an album he had been importing from England at a cost of 65 cents a copy. The dealer asked if Mr. Minkus could produce one for less, say 25 cents.
        Realizing they could make a profit selling such albums for a dime, the Minkus brothers talked their chain store clients into stocking the books and accompanying bags of stamps and were soon turning them out by the thousands for an eager public.
        The business kept Mr. Minkus on the road, which was fine with him, at least until he made a critical career mistake. Recognizing that he needed to improve his English, he made an arrangement with a client's secretary to teach him English while he taught her French.
        It was strictly a business arrangement, but by the time she had learned to say ''Je t'aime'' and he had mastered ''I love you,'' it was too late. The couple were married in 1930 and Mr. Minkus's traveling days were over.
        Dissolving a partnership that had little cash, Mr. Minkus accepted his share in stamps and began looking for a place to sell them, preferably a place with a lot of pedestrian traffic.
        He approached Bloomingdale's, but Bloomingdale's said no, and so did Macy's. But when Mr. Minkus tried across the street, Gimbels said yes, which is how it happened that one day in 1931 Mr. Minkus set up a card table next to the freight elevator on the first floor and began selling stamps.
        The colorful little stamps from around the world proved so popular that Mr. Minkus was soon presiding over a burgeoning business, one that eventually included shops in 45 department store across the country.
        His business wasn't hurt when Franklin D. Roosevelt, a dedicated stamp collector, became President in 1933, but Mr. Minkus did his part, too, starting collecting clubs for youngsters, for example, and holding classes in the Gimbels auditorium on Saturdays.
        By the 1950's, Mr. Minkus was so well entrenched that his annual buying trips to Europe were well publicized and he was able to begin a successful campaign to get the Post Office to include theater people in its commemorative issues.
        Having turned stamp collecting into a mass-market business, he created a further innovation when he talked Israel into giving him exclusive rights to distribute Israeli stamps to American dealers. That business was so successful, Mr. Minkus soon had similar arrangements with West Germany, the Netherlands, Tunisia, Indonesia and other countries.
        By the time he sold his business in the mid-1980's, stamp collecting had declined in the United States, but Mr. Minkus's place in its history was secure. As a former Postmaster General, Arthur E. Summerfield, once put it, he was ''the man who brought stamps to Main Street.''
        Mr. Minkus, whose wife, Mary, died in 1994, and whose daughter Beatrice Hessen died in 1989, is survived by another daughter, Sara Beer of Long Beach, L.I., four grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      