
        Irving Ben Cooper, who upheld organized baseball's exemption from antitrust laws, granted Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis relief from a relentless photographer and presided over hundreds of civil and criminal cases in more than 30 years as a Federal judge in New York, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan.
        He was 94.
        Judge Cooper, who had been a judge in Criminal Court in New York for 21 years and was 60 years old in 1962, when President John F. Kennedy named him to the Federal bench, was known as one of the court's hardest-working judges.
        He never formally retired but became senior judge with a reduced caseload about 15 years ago. He had been inactive since 1994.
        In a career in law and public service that spanned seven decades, Mr. Cooper in the 1920's investigated and prosecuted ambulance-chasing lawyers and quack doctors, was counsel to the Seabury Commission that exposed the scandals of Mayor James J. Walker's administration in the 1930's and was a justice of the Court of Special Sessions, the old criminal court, from 1939 to 1951, and chief justice of that court from 1951 to 1960. But after a protracted and bitterly contested Senate confirmation hearing in 1962, Judge Cooper began what was to be a second judicial career, on the Federal bench in New York, where he became known over the years as a versatile, energetic and conscientious judge.
        In 1972, he presided over a $3 million suit by Curt Flood, the outfielder, who challenged baseball's reserve system, which had tied players to particular teams, by refusing to be traded by the St. Louis Cardinals to the Philadelphia Phillies. The suit contended that Major League Baseball engaged in interstate commerce and it sought to undermine an exemption from antitrust laws that the Supreme Court granted to organized baseball in 1922.
        Judge Cooper did not rule on the merits of the system, but he rejected Flood's claims and upheld the antitrust immunity on grounds that earlier Supreme Court rulings that granted the immunity could not be challenged at a lower level.
        On appeal, the Supreme Court upheld Judge Cooper, though it acknowledged that baseball engaged in interstate commerce. Justice Harry Blackmun said the issue should be ''remedied by Congress,'' which has never acted on the matter.
        In 1975, in another highly publicized case, Judge Cooper ruled that Ronald E. Galella, a ''paparazzo'' photographer who had dogged Mrs. Onassis and her children for months with his cameras, had ''relentlessly invaded'' her right of privacy and interfered with Secret Service agents assigned to protect the former First Lady. Judge Cooper also dismissed a $1.3 million suit by Mr. Galella, who contended that Mrs. Onassis, by wearing sunglasses or a veil, had interfered with his livelihood, and that his First Amendment rights had been violated.
        Ending a trial that amassed 4,700 pages of testimony, much of it from Mrs. Onassis, the judge held that the First Amendment did not give the news media unrestricted rights. He granted a permanent injunction that barred Mr. Galella from harassing Mrs. Onassis or her children or going within 50 yards of them.
        In 1981, Judge Cooper, in one of his most controversial decisions, barred a black nationalist lawyer, Chokwe Lumumba, from representing Cynthia Boston, who was being held as a suspect in a botched $1.6 million robbery of a Brinks armored car in which two police officers and a guard were slain. Judge Cooper accused Mr. Lumumba of ''a propaganda campaign much beyond the limits of proper representation of a client.''
        Judge Cooper was often harsh in sentencing drug dealers. One was given 40 years in prison in a case in  1976, and three years later another dealer was given 35 years without parole. A millionaire certified public accountant convicted of tax fraud in 1964 was given a year in jail, even though he tried to curry favor by donating $100,000 to charity.
        In discharging a grand jury that had indicted Vincent John Rao, a Mafia boss, on charges of perjury in 1965, Judge Cooper declared, ''Without you, this city would be a jungle.''
        And a 57-year-old banker caught in possession of $24 million in stolen securities was sentenced by the judge to five years in jail.
        In another case, the judge in 1971 temporarily barred the state from reducing Medicaid care for hundreds of thousands of poor people. That year, he also sentenced a 23-year-old Columbia College honors student and doctoral candidate to six months in jail for refusing Army induction on the ground that the war in Vietnam was immoral, illegal and unconstitutional.
        Irving Ben Cooper was born in London on Feb. 7, 1902, one of six children of an English tailor who took his family to New York in 1912. The youth attended high schools in Roselle, N.J., and St. Joseph, Mo., and worked his way through the University of Missouri, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1922, and the Washington University Law School in St. Louis, where he earned his law degree in 1925.
        Returning to New York, he went into private practice for several years, but soon began making a name for himself in public service. From 1928 to 1930, he was counsel to an investigation of a conspiracy involving ambulance-chasing lawyers and doctors. Fourteen lawyers were disbarred, and numerous doctors lost their medical licenses.
        From 1930 to 1932, he was counsel to the panel named for Judge Samuel Seabury that investigated the scandal-plagued Walker administration. The success of the inquiry propelled him briefly to Washington, where he was counsel to the Senate Banking and Currency Committee in 1933.
        He then served three years as counsel to the New York City Investigation Department, and in 1938 was named by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia as a city magistrate. A year later, the Mayor appointed him an associate justice of the Court of Special Sessions, which handled misdemeanors and thousands of youthful offenders.
        In 21 years in the court, dealing with narcotics, malicious mischief, assaults, thefts and other offenses, Judge Cooper, colleagues said, became known as an unusual judge -- tough on lawyers who were not prepared, tough on thugs who showed no signs of repentance, but compassionate toward defendants who held promises of rehabilitation. As chief justice, he fought for money to triple his staff of pre-sentence probation investigators.
        Though he retired from the Special Sessions Court in 1960, President Kennedy nominated him to the Federal bench in 1962. The American Bar Association and the New York City Bar Association vigorously opposed the nomination, contending that he was temperamentally unsuited. But supporters noted that both groups had praised him at his retirement in 1960 and said the objections had more to do with politics than integrity or competence, and the nomination was approved.
        Judge Cooper's wife, the former Anita Bennett, whom he married in 1929, died in 1992. Surviving are a son, Richard, of New York; a daughter, Benita C. Marks of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Geraldine, of Mill Valley, Calif.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      