
        Lamar Dodd, a Georgia-based arts educator and painter whose style ranged from near-abstraction to  moody realism, died on Saturday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 86.
        Paintings by Mr. Dodd are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Smithsonian Institution, the Lamar Dodd Gallery in the University of Georgia's new Georgia Museum of Art and also in private collections.
        He was born in Fairburn, Ga., and  studied for four years at the Art Students League in New York. He decided that New York was uninspiring and returned to the South, where he developed a style described as vigorous and somberly realistic.
        His art was repeatedly shown in New York. Reviewing an exhibition  of Mr. Dodd's work at the Grand Central Moderne gallery in 1957, a critic for The New York Times, Stuart Preston, wrote: ''Lamar Dodd's latest semi-abstractions embody a pictorial report of a Mediterranean sojourn. Dodd is cagey with his subject matter, never going after it head on, but catching its flavor and look in one or more oblique ways.''
        Mr. Dodd was one of the artists commissioned by NASA to record their reactions to the space program.  He executed a series of large, colorful paintings depicting space shots and exploration in the 1960's and 70's.
        Mr. Dodd also lectured widely, and in 1956 was named chairman of a special committee organized by the Carnegie Corporation of New York to study the visual arts in the United States.
        He retired in 1976 after 16 years as head of the fine arts program at the University of Georgia in Athens. He had joined the faculty in 1937. Life magazine once credited him with being ''more responsible than any other man for the renaissance of art that has swept the Southeast.''
        His survivors include his wife, Annie Laurie; a daughter, Mary Irene Dodd of Valdosta, Ga., and a sister, Margaret D. Funderburk of West Point, Ga.
      