
        Dr. David Min-Chyang Ju, a plastic surgeon who developed a suturing technique that lessens the irritation of stitches while still closing wounds tightly, died last Friday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 75.
        Dr. Ju, who lived in Westchester County, had been suffering from cancer, according to Marion Javits, the widow of Senator Jacob K. Javits. The Javitses were longtime friends of Dr. Ju.
        The technique that Dr. Ju developed involved a simple but ingenious loop, Dr. David T. Chiu, chief of plastic surgery at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, said yesterday. The technique is so effective, Dr. Chiu said, that it produces what might seem an oxymoron: a beautiful scar.
        Dr. Ju worked full time at Columbia-Presbyterian until about 10 years ago, Dr. Chiu said. Dr. Chiu called Dr. Ju ''a surgical virtuoso'' and recalled that Dr. Jerome P. Webster, an internationally known plastic surgeon until his death in 1974, once said that Dr. Ju ''had the most gentle pair of hands of any surgeon'' he knew.
        Dr. Ju was born in Beijing and moved to Shanghai with his family as a teen-ager. He received his degree from Shanghai Medical College and trained in surgery at Chung-San Memorial Hospital. During his residency, he met Dr. Webster, who invited him to go to the United States in 1949 as a resident at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. Senator Javits sponsored legislation making the journey possible.
        Dr. Ju received a doctorate in science from the College of Physicians and Surgeons, where he later became an associate professor of clinical surgery. He was an authority on head and neck surgery and became chief of the Head and Neck Service at Francis Delafield Hospital in Manhattan.
        Dr. Ju received the Kerbs First Award from the Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation for his research on scar contraction. He also received the Outstanding Career Achievement Award from the Webster Society of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Dr. Ju was a founding member and past president of the Chinese American Medical Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Lily; a son, William; four brothers, two sisters and two grandsons.
      