
        C. Girard Davidson, an Assistant Secretary of the Interior under President Harry S. Truman and a member of an informal group that provided policy advice for Truman, died on Friday at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 86.
        His health declined after a stroke in 1995, family members said.
        Known as Jebby, Mr. Davidson was a Louisiana-born lawyer and liberal Democrat who held the Interior post from 1946 to 1950.
        Clark M. Clifford, special counsel to Truman in those years, said in his book ''Counsel to the President: a Memoir'' (Random House, 1991), written with Richard Holbrooke, that he, too, was a member of the informal advisory group. Mr. Clifford described it as ''the most effective group of political activists with whom I have ever been associated, a secret band whose very existence was not known publicly for years.''
        The group has been credited with having recommended various measures and policies, including recognition of the State of Israel, which the Truman Administration carried out in 1948, and vetoing the Taft-Hartley Labor Act, which, among other things, barred union-employer contracts that required all workers to be union members. Congress overrode  Truman's veto in 1947.
        Mr. Clifford reported that the Monday-Night Group, as he called it, had half a dozen ''core members'' from Government and politics. He said it  met every two weeks, beginning in the winter of 1946-47, and ''tried to work toward unified positions on key issues,'' using him to convey its ideas to the White House.
        Mr. Davidson was born in Lafayette, La., and received a bachelor's degree from Southwestern Louisiana Institute and law degrees from Tulane and Yale. He did legal work for Government bodies, including the Tennessee Valley Authority and, in 1944 and 1945, the War Production Board in Washington.
        After resigning as Assistant Secretary, he practiced law in Portland  and was active in various businesses. He was also a Democratic national committeeman from Oregon from 1956 to 1963 and chairman of the Western States Democratic Conference from 1960 to 1963.
        His marriages to Mercedes Hester and Joan F. Kaplan ended in divorces.
        He is survived by his wife of 29 years, the former Sylvia Nemer; four sons, Michael C., of Newberg, Ore., John M., of Lake Forest, Ill., Brad G., of Annapolis, Md., and Peter, of Brooklyn; two daughters, Joan H. Davidson of Santa Ynez, Calif., and Alice Pickering of Rye, N.Y., and 13 grandchildren.
      