
        Sydney Archer, a research professor of chemistry and former dean at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute who developed medicinal drugs against an array of diseases, died on Aug. 22 at Albany Medical Center. He was 79 and lived in Delmar, N.Y.
        The cause was a stroke, said R. Bruce Adams, a spokesman for Rensselaer, where Dr. Archer continued his search for medicines until his death.
        His most recent work raised hope for an effective treatment of AIDS dementia, a mental condition that can accompany the physical symptoms of AIDS patients.
        Other medical conditions for which he helped develop drugs included cancer, drug and alcohol addiction and schistosomiasis, a usually tropical chronic parasitic disorder of the liver, lungs, bladder or central nervous system.
        Dr. Archer, a native of Brooklyn, graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received master's and doctoral degrees in organic chemistry from Pennsylvania State University. His work at Rensselaer was backed by major financing from the National Institutes of Health and the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
        He and Jean Bidlack, a pharmacologist at the University of Rochester, created at fluorescent tagging procedure to identify receptors in certain brain cells that play a key role in AIDS dementia when a patient is infected by the H.I.V.-1 strain. Their finding was published just last month in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
        From 1943 to 1973, Dr. Archer worked as a research chemist, vice president and associate director of research at Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute in Rensselaer, N.Y. He then joined the faculty of Rensselaer Polytechnic in Troy, and served as dean of its School of Science from 1980 to 1985.
        He played a central role in the creation of the New York State Capital District Center for Drug Abuse Research and Treatment. As the holder of some 100 patents, he was named Inventor of the Year by the Eastern New York Patent Law Association in 1978.
        Dr. Archer is survived by his wife, Therese; two sons, Daniel, of Burlington, Vt., and David, of Truckee, Calif; and a daughter, Eve Archer of Provincetown, Mass..
      