
        Dr. Kenneth S. Warren, a former director of health sciences at the Rockefeller Foundation and a prominent researcher of tropical diseases, died on Wednesday at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, according to his wife, Sylvia.
        Dr. Warren was born in Brooklyn on June 11, 1929, and graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Medical School. He also studied at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
        From 1955 to 1963, he worked at the Laboratory of Tropical Diseases, which was part of the National Institutes of Health. From 1963 to 1977, he taught at the School of Medicine at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, where he was also a professor of library science, a reflection of his lifelong love of literature.
        Indeed, when Dr. Warren was studying at Harvard College, where he majored in history and literature, his honors thesis concerned the poet T. S. Eliot's move to England from the United States.
        ''Ken showed the beginning of his aggressive research techniques when he wrote to Eliot asking him why he left America,'' C. Leonard Gordon, his college roommate, said during a ceremony in June at the Picower Institute for Medical Research in Manhasset, L.I., at which Dr. Warren was awarded an honorary degree of science. ''Eliot replied in a charming letter that he didn't feel he left America. He just found himself in England.''
        In the medical community, Dr. Warren was an expert on schistosomiasis, an often-lethal worm-borne tropical disease that afflicts millions in underdeveloped nations. His work led him to spend extensive time in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean.
        ''Ken not only knew that he wanted to be a doctor, he knew he wanted to explore the world, and he had a pith helmet ready to go,'' Mr. Gordon said at the ceremony.
        In 1977, Dr. Warren joined the Rockefeller Foundation in New York City as the director of health sciences, a position he held for 10 years. During that time, he started the Great Neglected Diseases of Mankind research program.
        He spent an additional year at the foundation as associate vice president for molecular biology and information sciences.
        He later worked for the Maxwell Communications Corporation as director of science from 1989 to 1992. The next year, he served as chairman and chief executive of Comprehensive Medical Systems, a venture-capital concern based in Manhattan. For the last four years, he was vice president for academic affairs at the Picower Institute.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Warren is survived by two children, Christopher, of Manhattan and Sorano, Italy, and Erica, of Athens, Ga.; a brother, Richard, of Waccabuc, N.Y., and a sister, Karen Levine of Clifton, N.J.
      