
        Maurice Valency, playwright, author, critic and professor of drama, an erudite man of the theater best known for his adaptations of award-winning plays by Jean Giraudoux and Friedrich Duerrenmatt, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93.
        Allying himself with eloquent European playwrights, Mr. Valency had three Broadway successes in the 1940's and 50's: two by Giraudoux, ''The Madwoman of Chaillot'' and ''Ondine'' (starring Audrey Hepburn) and ''The Visit'' by Duerrenmatt (starring Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne). Each was named best foreign play of its season by the New York Drama Critics Circle.
        Mr. Valency's adaptation of ''The Enchanted'' by Giraudoux was also on Broadway, and his version of ''The Madwoman of Chaillot'' was later turned into the Jerry Herman musical ''Dear World.''
        In his adaptations, Mr. Valency demonstrated the language of a poet and the dramatic comprehension of a working playwright, placing his own signature on diverse works while also keeping faith with the spirit of the original. One sign of his success is that his adaptations of contemporary classics remain the generally accepted versions. Giraudoux and Duerrenmatt continue to communicate to English-speaking audiences through Mr. Valency. He believed firmly that there was ''a place for literate drama in our theater,'' adding, ''If there isn't, then I might as well retire back to the 16th century where I belong.''
        When Mr. Valency's adaptation of two Giraudoux short plays, ''The Virtuous Island'' and ''The Apollo of Bellac,'' were presented in a double bill Off Broadway in 1957, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times, ''As usual, Maurice Valency has provided an English text that has lightness, clarity and movement.''
        Mr. Valency was born and educated in New York, graduating from City College and Columbia University. He taught at Brooklyn College, Columbia University as a professor of dramatic literature and the Juilliard School, where he served as director of academic studies. He was also a member of the New York bar and spoke seven languages and read even more.
        For all his professional acclaim, Mr. Valency was best known to a generation of Columbia students for his spell-binding performances in the classroom. Although he left histrionics to the stage and spoke in a calm, soft voice, what he had to say was considered so witty, insightful and downright entertaining that his courses were often oversubscribed and students even took dates to his graduate seminar on the Renaissance.
        As a critic, he carefully positioned himself between the traditional and the experimental. Writing about Giraudoux, Duerrenmatt, Anouilh, Cocteau, Sartre and other playwrights, he praised them for their innovations and added, ''All of them have transcended the limits of common sense -- and, often enough, to the greater glory of the drama.''
        When ''The Visit'' was revived on Broadway by the Roundabout Theater Company in 1992, in a production starring Jane Alexander as the vengeful Claire Zachanassian, Mr. Valency said that he had revised Duerrenmatt's text to suit Miss Fontanne, who created the role on Broadway in 1958. In the original play, the character had, he said, ''a wooden leg and an ivory hand and could hardly get about.'' In a biography, ''The Fabulous Lunts,'' Jared Brown said that ''Duerrenmatt himself later said that the play was improved by Claire's physical transformation'' in the Valency adaptation.
        Mr. Valency also wrote plays (''Savonarola,'' ''Electra'' and ''The Thracian Horses''); wrote, translated or adapted opera librettos (''La Perichole,'' which was presented at the Metropolitan Opera, ''The Reluctant King'' and ''Feathertop''), and wrote plays for ''Omnibus'' and other television series. In 1984, at the age of 81, he published his first novel, ''Ashby,'' and five years later published the novel ''Julie'' that was in part a sequel.
        John Gassner, in his review of Mr. Valency's book ''The Flower and the Castle: An Introduction to Modern Drama'' in The New York Times Book Review, credited his critical colleague with bringing to his work ''a lifetime of study and experience as well as a viewpoint both Olympian and engaged.'' Mr. Valency's other books include ''The Breaking String: The Plays of Anton Chekhov,'' ''The Cart and the Trumpet: The Plays of George Bernard Shaw'' and ''The End of the World: An Introduction to Contemporary Drama.''
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Janet Cornell.
      