
        Joanne Dru, who starred opposite John Wayne in the westerns ''Red River'' and ''She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,'' died on Tuesday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 74.
        The cause was a respiratory illness, The Associated Press reported.
        Ms. Dru was born in Logan, W. Va. When her father died, she moved to New York with her mother and found work as a model for the Powers agency while still a teen-ager, changing her last name from LaCock to Marshall. She danced in the chorus of ''Hold Onto Your Hats,'' Al Jolson's last Broadway show, before marrying the crooner Dick Haymes, who took her to Hollywood when he was signed for film roles.
        In Hollywood, she caught the eye of the director Howard Hawks, who changed her last name to Dru. After making her screen debut in ''Abie's Irish Rose'' in 1946, she was given the role of Tess Millay in Hawks's classic western ''Red River'' (1948). In the film she makes a memorable entrance, pinned to a wagon by an arrow during an Indian attack, a crisis that is solved by Montgomery Clift.
        A year later, John Ford directed her in ''She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,'' in which, as Olivia Dandridge, she turned the heads of the United States  Cavalry. After appearing in ''All the King's Men'' (1949), she teamed up with Ford again for ''Wagon Master,'' starring opposite Ben Johnson.
        In the 1950's, she made many films for 20th Century Fox, including ''711 Ocean Drive,'' ''Mr. Belvedere Rings the Bell,'' ''The Pride of St. Louis,'', ''Thunder Bay,'' ''Hell on Frisco Bay.'' Most were a cut or two below the films she had made just a few years earlier. In ''Sincerely Yours,'' she played Liberace's love interest, and in ''Three Ring Circus,'' a Dean Martin-Jerry Lewis film, she was cast as Martin's girlfriend.
        In ''Guestward Ho!,'' a television sitcom that ran from 1960 to 1961, she played Babs Hooten, a New Yorker transplanted to a rundown dude ranch in New Mexico.
        She was married three times. Her second marriage, to the actor John Ireland, whom she met on the set of ''Red River,'' ended in divorce. Her last marriage was to C. V. Wood, a businessman.
        She is survived by her children,  Richard Haymes Jr. of New York City and Helen Joanna Santos of Monterey, Calif. (a daughter, Barbara Nugent Haymes, died three years ago); six grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and her brothers, Peter Marshall, the television game-show host, and David Moss of Sedona, Ariz.
      