
        Robert A. Nisbet, a scholar who plumbed the history of ideas and found none more appealing than the pure strain of conservative thought that he illuminated and championed in more than a dozen books, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 82.
        His wife, Caroline, said the cause was prostate cancer.
        As a sociologist who specialized in the study of the history of ideas, and who had been Albert Schweitzer Professor of the Humanities at Columbia from 1974 to 1982, Dr. Nisbet was a deep and nimble thinker who expounded on everything from ''The History of the Idea of Progress'' to ''Sociology as an Art Form.''
        But at the heart of his writings was a passionate commitment to conservative political ideals that he traced back through Goldwater, Coolidge, Taft, Cleveland, de Tocqueville and John Adams to the 18th century fountainhead, Edmund Burke.
        Although he was widely hailed as an intellectual mentor of the American right and ended his career as a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, the brand of conservatism he espoused was so rarefied and remote from modern political trends that one of his first major works, ''The Quest for Community,'' first published in 1953, became something of a cult classic among counterculture radicals.
        Indeed, although his dominant theme -- that government has such an inherent tendency to tyranny that individuals need to rely on highly personal and traditional ''intermediate institutions'' like family, neighborhood, community and church to project their liberties -- appealed to modern-day conservatives espousing vague family values and denouncing big government, when it came down to political cases Dr. Nisbet was no fellow traveler of the day-to-day political right.
        He also warned against the impersonal power of corporations and denounced efforts to regulate morality as much as he did rampant libertarianism.
        In ''The Making of Modern Society,'' for example, he chided Ronald Reagan in 1986 for paying lip service to the need to ''get government off peoples' backs'' even as the President was embracing ''the Moral Majority's crusade to put more government on our backs.''
        Dr. Nisbet, the son of a lumberyard worker, was born in Los Angeles and lived for a while in Georgia before returning to California. He traced his development as a thinker to the bleak experience of growing up in Maricopa, Calif., a San Joaquin Valley town then so desolate, he later recalled, that ''its ugliness and hostile challenge to the human spirit drove me straight to books.''
        Working his way through the University of California at Berkeley, Dr. Nisbet, who received three degrees there, came under the influence of a teacher, Frederick Teggart, a seminal figure in the development of modern sociology, and decided to make sociology his life's work.
        After receiving his doctorate from Berkeley in 1939, he taught there until 1953, then moved on to the University of California at Riverside, where he served as a dean until 1972 before joining the faculty at the University of Arizona. Two years later he was selected over 60 other candidates for the prestigious Schweizer chair at Columbia.
        Although Dr. Nisbet believed that he had done his most important work from 1965 to 1975, a decade in which he turned out eight books, among them, ''The Sociological Tradition,'' ''Social Change and History,'' ''Degradation of the Academic Dogma,'' and ''Twilight of Authority,'' he continued writing after he left Columbia in 1978 and moved to Washington. He was especially proud of ''Prejudices: A Philosophical Dictionary,'' and ''The Present Age: Progress and Anarchy in Modern America,'' which grew out of the Jefferson Lectures, delivered for the National Endowment for the Humanities.
        A man of decided civility, Dr. Nisbet, whose stately writings sometimes seemed as if they had been composed with a quill pen, actually wrote on a manual typewriter. Although he steadfastly resisted the lure of word processors, he was no fuddy-duddy. At the end of his career, his wife confided yesterday, Dr. Nisbet had actually been persuaded to switch to an electric typewriter.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters from a previous marriage, Martha Rehrman of Davis, Calif., and Constance Field of Skokie, Ill., and by Annie Nash, of Corrales, N.M., his wife's daughter from a previous marriage.
      