
        George B. Mead, a conductor, composer and opera translator who was the organist and choirmaster at Trinity Church for 27 years and was associated with several churches, schools and choral groups in New York City, died on Sept. 2 at the Andover Nursing Center in Andover, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Brooklyn Heights and Stillwater, N.J.
        In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Mead was one of the most celebrated choral conductors in New York City. Besides his work at Trinity, he directed the Downtown Glee Club, the Golden Hill Chorus, the Glee Club of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and the Brooklyn Madrigal Club. His Trinity Radio Choir had a weekly radio show.
        He was also a prolific opera translator, both on his own and in collaboration with his wife, Phyllis Reid, whom he married in 1930. His English versions of standard works and rarities were used in productions by the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Opera, the Juilliard School, the Mannes College of Music and the Little Orchestra Society. Nine of them were published in ''A Treasury of Grand Opera'' by Henry W. Simon (Simon & Schuster, 1946 and 1965).
        Among the works he and his wife translated were Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' and ''Abduction From the Seraglio,'' Rossini's ''Barber of Seville'' and ''The Turk in Italy,'' Richard Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Johann Strauss's ''Gypsy Baron,'' Donizetti's ''Rita,'' Flotow's ''Martha,'' Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and Leoncavallo's ''Pagliacci.'' Their translations were praised for their wit and singability. Mrs. Mead died in 1978.
        Mr. Mead was born in Manhattan and attended the Chapel School of Trinity Church, the Trinity School, and Columbia University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in 1923 and a master's in 1925, both in music. He was an assistant organist at Trinity from 1925 to 1936, when he became organist at Central Congregational Church in Brooklyn. He returned to Trinity as organist and choirmaster in 1941 and remained there until 1968.
        He is survived by a son, William G. Mead of Brooklyn, three grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      