
        Prof. Leon Lipson, a Russian-speaking authority on Soviet law who taught at Yale Law School, died on Friday in his sleep at his home in New Haven. He was 75.
        He had heart trouble, his son Michael said.
        Professor Lipson retired in 1992 as the Henry R. Luce Professor of Jurisprudence at the law school, where he began teaching in 1957. From 1992 until his death, he was the Paul C. Tsai Professorial Lecturer at Yale. A scholar in comparative and international law, Professor Lipson also specialized in space law. He also concentrated on aspects of Soviet law like the administration of justice.
        He was also a connoisseur of the peculiar language that he called Soviet and others might call Marxist-Leninist rhetoric. In an interview in 1969, he said: ''Take the concept of 'our side.' In Soviet, 'our side' is firm, principled and, above all, calm. The adversary, while he may be cunning (as with the ruling bourgeoisie), is never calm. He is frenzied, close to hysteria, spiritually incontinent.''
        Professor Lipson was president of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, chairman of the Social Science Research Council, an adviser to the United States Mission to the United Nations and head of the Council of Soviet and Eastern European Studies at Yale.
        His writings include ''Report on the Law of Outer Space'' (1961), which he and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, later the Attorney General, wrote for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He was also a co-editor of ''Papers on Soviet Law'' (1977 and 1979) and ''Law and the Social Sciences'' (1987).
        Professor Lipson was born in Chelsea, Mass. He received a bachelor's degree in 1941, a master's degree in Slavic languages in 1943 and a law degree in 1950, all from Harvard, where he was an editor of The Law Review.
        Early in his career, he had Government posts in Washington and Berlin and was with the law firm that is now Cleary, Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton in Manhattan.
        His first wife, the former Dorothy Ann Rapoport, died in 1987.
        Besides his son Michael, of Brooklyn, he is survived by his wife, Rita; another son, James, of Claremont, Calif.; a daughter, Abigail, of Cambridge, Mass.; a stepdaughter, Yvette Brackman of Brooklyn; two stepsons, Peter and Alex Brackman, both of Manhattan; two grandchildren and a stepgrandchild.
      