
        Nathan Safir, a pioneer in Spanish-language broadcasting in the United States, died on Saturday at his home in San Antonio, Tex. He was 83.
        The cause was diabetes, The San Antonio Express-News reported.
        Mr. Safir, who lived in Mexico as a boy, retired in 1990 after being manager and general manager of what is now radio station KCOR-AM in San Antonio since 1953, about three years after it was founded by Raul Cortez.
        At his death, Mr. Safir was on the board of the station's Dallas-based parent corporation, Tichenor Media Systems Inc., which owns a score of radio stations for Spanish listeners. On most, only Spanish is spoken, but on some, disk jockeys speak English as well.
        In 1989, Mr. Safir was inducted into the National Association of Broadcasters' Broadcasting Hall of Fame and was cited, as general manager of ''the first full-time Spanish-language station in the United States,'' for playing a ''key role in the acceptance, growth and now explosion of Spanish-language broadcasting.''
        At the time of the induction, the association's radio board chairman, L. Lowry Mays, said that Mr. Safir was ''a true pioneer'' and had ''contributed greatly to radio's ability to serve all communities'' and had ''never wavered or doubted the ultimate success of the Spanish format.''
        WCOR-AM's current general manager, Dan Wilson, said yesterday that Mr. Safir (pronounced sah-FEER) ''basically ran the show,'' over the decades, overseeing ''programming, marketing, community involvement, the whole ball of wax,'' while the station's listenership grew greatly, mainly in the area of San Antonio, which has a large Mexican-American population.
        The trade journal Advertising Age reported in 1988 that the San Antonio market had more than 900,000 people of Hispanic descent, and Mr. Safir said at the time that, although KCOR might not reach Hispanic teen-agers, they returned to Spanish ''when they marry and settle down.'' He also had a role in the early history of Spanish television, helping in the development of what was then called KCOR-TV, also in San Antonio.
        Mr. Safir was ''committed to the business because he was convinced that Spanish broadcasting was a necessary and viable product,'' said his son Larry, adding that it was a difficult task to get a Spanish station going, ''because people didn't understand the concept,'' and ''many people even thought the station broadcast from Mexico,'' but ''as the station's audience grew, advertisers came around.''
        Mr. Safir's parents were born in Russia, emigrated to South America and made their way to Monterrey, Mexico, where his father, David, was in the scrap-metal business. Nathan Safir was born in New Haven, where he had relatives, and spent the following years in Monterrey. At age 12, speaking no English, he was sent by train, alone, to San Antonio, to enter a boarding school, Texas Military Institute, from which he graduated.
        He received a bachelor's degree in journalism in 1937 from the University of Texas. In 1940, he initiated a weekly Spanish program on KTSA, also in San Antonio, which is said to have been the city's first Spanish broadcasting. While serving in the infantry and stationed in London during World War II, he produced and announced Spanish programs for Armed Forces Radio.
        He was president of the Spanish Radio Broadcasters of America and of the Texas Association of Broadcasters and a member of the United Press International Radio Advisory Board and of Texas's Good Neighbor Commission.
        In addition to his son Larry, of McAllen, Tex., Mr. Safir is survived by his wife, Lillian; another son, David, of San Francisco; four grandchildren, and a brother, Alex, of High Point, N.C.
      