
        Bernard Posner, a Government bureaucrat who was so moved by the plight of disabled veterans that he put his very able body on the line as a leading champion of the rights of all Americans with disabilities, died on Wednesday at nursing home in Rockville, Md. He was 80 and had been executive director of the President's Committee for the Employment of the Handicapped.
        His family said the cause of death was a stroke.
        A native of Cincinnati who majored in English at the University of Cincinnati, Mr. Posner later studied under the G.I. bill to receive a master's degree in communications from American University.
        He came through his Army service in World War II unscathed and with no special interest in the problems faced by the disabled. But when a chance encounter with friend led to a position in the Veterans Administration's press office after the war, Mr. Posner unwittingly took what would become more than a job.
        Working with disabled veterans to create national campaigns to promote their employment had such a transforming effect on his outlook that he was soon a man with a mission.
        Recognizing that millions of civilians with physical or mental handicaps faced the same problems as disabled veterans, he started working as an unpaid part-time volunteer for the Presidential committee on the handicapped that had been established by Harry S. Truman.
        Mr. Posner joined the committee full time in 1960, initially as a special assistant to the chairman, Harold Russell, later as assistant director,  and as executive director from 1975 until his retirement in 1986.
        It was a reflection of his zeal and his devotion to the cause of the disabled that during his years as assistant director, Mr. Posner went somewhat beyond the official scope of his job and actually posed as a mentally retarded worker to gain insights into how the retarded are treated by bosses, co-workers and the public.
        After brief stints working in a Washington laundry, picking onions in Arizona and washing dishes at a Los Angeles restaurant (all with the secret complicity of the business owners) Posner wrote articles about his experiences and used them in arguing for more enlightened treatment for the mentally deficient.
        Mr. Posner, whose efforts were widely recognized by advocates for the disabled, helped lay the groundwork for the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which required Government contractors to provide accommodations for handicapped workers.
        Even before the passage of the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act, which extended the provisions of the 1973 law to an estimated 43 million handicapped Americans in 1990, Mr. Posner had been instrumental in getting millions of dollars' worth of elevators and other special provisions for the handicapped in the construction of the Washington Metro.
        After he retired in 1986, Mr. Posner continued his work as a volunteer with the National Organization on Disability. In 1990, when President George Bush signed the Americans With Disabilities Act, the man who had taken a Government job and discovered a national mission was at the White House ceremony.
        Mr. Posner, who lived in Silver Spring, Md., is survived by his wife, Bess; a son, Paul of Burke Va., and a granddaughter.
      