
        Spiro T. Agnew, who was forced to resign as the 39th Vice President of the United States in 1973 when he pleaded no contest to a charge of income-tax evasion, died yesterday in Berlin, Md. He was 77 years old.
        John Ullrich, the owner of Ullrich Funeral Home in Berlin, Md., said Mr. Agnew died at Atlantic General Hospital in Berlin. A spokeswoman for Atlantic General Hospital would provide no details about his death.
        Mr. Agnew, a Greek immigrant's son whose rise to high office had seemed to be a reassuring affirmation of the American dream, was nearly unknown outside his native state of Maryland when Richard M. Nixon chose him as a running mate in 1968. And Mr. Agnew might have been as little remembered as most Vice Presidents without the notoriety of his enforced departure.
        Mr. Agnew's political experience, before he won the Vice Presidency, included three years as an appointed member of the local zoning appeals board in Baltimore County; four years as Executive, the equivalent of mayor, of that suburban county, and less than two years as Governor of Maryland.
        Mr. Nixon, well aware of the surprise his choice occasioned, heartily defended his choice at the time, saying of Mr. Agnew: ''He has real depth and genuine warmth. I was deeply impressed by his tremendous brain power, great courage and an unprejudiced legal mind. He has vigor, imagination and above all, he acts. He has the attributes of a statesman of the first rank.'' Nevertheless, one widespread response to Mr. Nixon's choice was, ''Spiro who?''
        The nine-week election campaign did little to polish Mr. Agnew's image, marked as it was by a series of gaffes. He spoke of ''Polacks,'' and of a ''fat Jap''; he accused Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, the Democratic candidate, of being ''soft on Communism,'' a comment that drew rebukes even from fellow Republicans. Although billed as the Nixon camp's urban expert, Mr. Agnew disdained visits to ghettos, saying, ''If you've seen one slum, you've seen them all.''
        He began his first term by reading about government problems and the few duties of the Vice President, and there were early signs, when he began his attacks on the Administration's opponents and on the news media, that he meant to try to make the office more than the dull waiting room it had been for most of his predecessors.
        A tall, meticulously dressed man,  Mr. Agnew was part of a new breed of suburban politicians. Like many suburbanites, he grew up in the inner city, but as he grew older and more affluent, he left for the suburbs.
        He became a Kiwanian and a member of the high school parent-teacher association; he left the Greek Orthodox faith of his father for the Episcopal Church; he switched from the Democratic to the Republican Party, and he made it clear that he preferred to be called Ted, rather than the more foreign-sounding Spiro.
        Spiro Theodore Agnew was born in Baltimore on Nov. 9, 1918. His father, whose name had been Anagnostopoulos, arrived in the United States from Greece in 1897; his mother was a native of Virginia. His father peddled vegetables from a truck and then went into the restaurant business.
        Spiro Agnew graduated from public school in 1937 and entered Johns Hopkins University. He majored in chemistry but had a poor academic record and left to enter the then unaccredited University of Baltimore Law School, attending classes at night and working by day as a file clerk for an insurance company.
        There he met Elinor Isabel Judefind, to whom he was married in 1942, three days after he graduated from an Army Officers Candidate School. In the war Mr. Agnew served as a company commander with the 10th Armored Division in four campaigns in Europe and was awarded a Bronze Star. While he was away, the Agnews' first child, Pamela Lee, was born, in 1943. A son, James Rand, called Randy, was born in 1946; another daughter, Susan, in 1948, and a third daughter, Kimberly, in 1956.
        As a returned veteran, Mr. Agnew completed the University of Baltimore law course in 1947. He was hired by a large supermarket and given a variety of duties, from hiring to serving as assistant manager and helping at the cash register. In 1951, he was recalled for Army service and sent to Fort Meade, Md., and Fort Benning, Ga. When he was mustered out, he worked briefly in several Baltimore County law firms and moved to the Baltimore County suburbs.
        ''Ted got into politics through the P.T. A.,'' his wife said. ''He kind of spread out.''
        First Elected Office As County Executive
        In 1962, six years before he was elected Vice President, he won his first elective position, that of Executive of Baltimore County, which surrounds but does not include the city. During his administration, the county became one of the first to enact a public accommodations law, that is, a requirement that such public accommodations as restaurants be open to all regardless of race or color. He was credited with a number of other accomplishments, such as building new schools, improving teachers' salaries and reorganizing the police bureau.
        He was also criticized, however, for his close and friendly relationships with the county's real-estate developers, some of whom invited him to join their ventures. Many years later, it emerged that he had been less than impartial in the awarding of county contracts.
        He acknowleged even then that he had invested in and profited from some of the real-estate ventures; Mr. Agnew said in his defense in 1973 that Maryland had a long-accepted tradition of easygoing political ethics. These relationships created no particular furor when he ran for governor in 1966, fortuitously against a Democratic Party beset by intramural wrangling. He ran against a white supremacist, George P. Mahoney, and was elected by an 81,775-vote margin.
        Mr. Agnew gained a reputation as a competent if not brilliant Governor. His first move in national politics was to announce his early support for the Presidential candidacy of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York.
        At home, meanwhile, the Governor's handling of flaring racial tensions in Maryland modified his image as a moderate. Increasingly, the term ''law and order'' was heard in Mr. Agnew's pronouncements. ''If one wants to pinpoint the cause of riots,'' he said, ''it would be this permissive climate and the misguided compassion of public opinion. It is not evil conditions that cause riots, but evil men.''
        It was with this background that he arrived at the Republican National Convention in 1968 as Maryland's favorite-son candidate. He was chosen to make the nominating speech for Mr. Nixon. After Mr. Nixon's easy first-ballot victory, it took 28 hours of intense debate to decide on Mr. Agnew. Even he was astonished. ''I am stunned,'' Mr. Agnew said. ''I had no idea that this would happen. It's like a bolt from the blue.''
        A few months into his first term, however, Mr. Agnew's shock had dissipated to the point that he began to speak out. There was his attack on the ''tiny and closed fraternity of privileged men'' who packaged and delivered television news. Frank Stanton, the president of CBS, said that the Nixon Administration, through Mr. Agnew, was making an ''ominous'' attempt to intimidate television reporters.
        Then Mr. Agnew assailed newspapers, specifically The New York Times and The Washington Post. ''The American people should be made aware,'' he said, ''of the trend toward the monopolization of the great public information vehicles and the concentration of power over public opinion in fewer and fewer hands.''
        He cited The Post as an example of a trend toward monopolization and he questioned the news judgment of The Times. Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, president and publisher of The Times, said that Mr. Agnew was ''in error'' both ''when he implies that The New York Times ever sought or enjoyed immunity from comment or criticism and in the facts cited.''
        Herb Klein, the Nixon Administration's director of communication, said that the Vice President's assignment was ''to explain in a missionary way what Administration policies are and to seek suppport for them; he fills a basic need which the President can't do.''
        In attacks on the news media and on critics of Mr. Nixon's Vietnam War policies, Mr. Agnew was given to using such phrases as ''nattering nabobs of negativism,'' ''effete corps of impudent snobs,'' ''pusillanimous pussyfooters'' and ''hopeless, hysterical hypochondriacs of history.''
        He had found an audience and by early 1970 there were ''God Bless Spiro Agnew'' posters and ''I Like Spiro'' bumper stickers. A Gallup Poll showed him to be No. 3 in popularity among Americans, after President Nixon and Billy Graham, the evangelist.
        In the 1970 Congressional campaign he revived political alliteration in attacking the opposition as ''vicars of vacillation.'' He also assailed ''radic-libs,'' saying: ''Any candidate of any party who voices radical sentiments or who courts and enjoys the support of radical elements ought to be voted out of office by the American people.''
        He said that politicians who encouraged antiwar demonstrations were ''ideological eunuchs'' and that the ''decadent few'' misleading the nation's youth should be ''separated'' from society ''with no more regret than we should feel over discarding rotten apples from a barrel.'' He assailed the Hatfield-McGovern amendment to set a date for the withdrawal of American troops in Vietnam as ''a blueprint for the first defeat in the history of the United States.''
        Positioning Himself For the Presidency
        Although he was becoming increasingly controversial, he had no difficulty staying on the ticket in 1972, and was clearly beginning to position himself for a run for the Presidency in 1976. Then in February 1973 came the first indications of trouble. A grand jury in Baltimore was looking into his affairs.
        By April, he had retained counsel and informed President Nixon of the investigation by the office of George Beall, the United States Attorney for Baltimore. By early August the Vice President had been officially informed of the investigation and asked for documents; four days later, Mr. Agnew informed the press of the investigation, already widely rumored; two days after that, he denounced the charges against him and said he would not resign.
        So it went, nearly day by day in August: the Vice President denounced ''leaks'' to the press from the Justice Department; he announced that he would open his files to the Justice Department; he had a meeting with the President. In early September, the President issued a statement of confidence in Mr. Agnew ''during the period that he has served as Vice President.''
        Increasingly, news reports continued to say that Mr. Agnew would resign, and Mr. Agnew continued to deny it. He told a Republican audience in Los Angeles on Sept. 29: ''I will not resign if indicted! I will not resign if indicted!''
        Mr. Agnew tried valiantly to keep the case out of the courts and place his fate in the hands of Congress, where he might hope to influence the outcome of an impeachment procedure. He raised the question of whether he could be indicted before an impeachment, and Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson said the answer was yes.
        Meanwhile, his attorneys bargained with the United States Attorney's office, hoping for a compromise. And on Oct. 10, 1973, this letter from Mr. Agnew was delivered to Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger: ''I hereby resign the office of Vice President of the United States, effective immediately.''
        As it was delivered, Mr. Agnew stood in a Federal courtroom in Baltimore, listening to his lawyers lodge a plea of nolo contendere, or no contest -- the judge reminded him that this was the ''full equivalent'' of a guilty plea -- to failing to report and pay taxes on income he received in 1967, when he was Governor of Maryland.
        In return, Federal prosecutors agreed not to seek his indictment on allegations of kickbacks and bribery. His decision to enter the plea, he said ''rests on my firm belief that the public interest requires swift disposition of the problems which are facing me.'' He also acknowledged that the money that he had failed to pay taxes on had come from consulting engineers doing business with the state, and in vague terms, that they had benefited. He was given three years' probation and fined $10,000.
        A 40-page summary of the evidence against Mr. Agnew was submitted to the court and made public. It detailed how, from his time as Baltimore County Executive to his years as Vice President, Mr. Agnew had taken kickbacks and payments from people who wanted government business. Mr. Agnew said he was a poor man and needed the cash to meet his social and political obligations. The Vice President denied the allegations, but the bulk of the evidence and the testimony of four witnesses was overwhelming. He was discredited with all but his most ardent partisans.
        In later years, Mr. Agnew was to indicate, as he did in his 1980 apologia, ''Go Quietly . . . Or Else'' that pressure from the White House had forced him into resigning and allowing the summary to be made public. The book was reviewed in The Times by John Herbers as ''a book that seeks his rehabilitation but seems likely to reinforce negative feelings about him.''
        Writing Style Is Called 'Technical Baroque'
        This was Mr. Agnew's second venture into print. His first was a novel about high-level Washington, ''The Canfield Decision,'' that was briefly a best seller. John Kenneth Galbraith, reviewing the book for The Times, wrote: ''Mr. Agnew's own style varies from bureaucratic to alliterative to a kind of technical baroque.''
        In a 1980 television interview, Mr. Agnew said: ''I wouldn't recommend anyone go into politics today, any young person. Because it's just people, the expectation of people from people in public office is just so high that no ordinary man can ever perform to suit them.'' The interviewer then asked if honesty could not legitimately be expected. ''Yes,'' Mr. Agnew said, ''but honesty is a different thing to different people.''
        Mr. Agnew's appearance in 1987 as a plaintiff in a case in Federal District Court in Brooklyn gave a glimpse of his activities as an international businessman since his resignation. In court papers describing his work, Mr. Agnew said ''I have one utility, and that's the ability to penetrate to the top people.''
        His business, Pathlite Inc., represented a German aircraft manufacturer, a South Korean conglomerate, a French manufacturer of military uniforms, a Greek dredging concern, and an American company, the Hoppmannn Corporation, which was seeking communications work in Argentina. He had arranged contracts in Taiwan and Saudi Arabia.
        He had also discussed with Argentine businessmen a possible concert by his friend Frank Sinatra.
        In the mid-1980's he served as a middleman between President Saddam Hussein and Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania in a deal to buy uniforms for the Iraqi Army.
        Mr. Agnew made news in 1989 by applying for a tax deduction for a reimbursement to the State of Maryland for the bribes he had taken. His request was was rejected by a tax appeals board in California. At the time he described himself as ''international businessman'' and was a resident of Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        At Nixon's funeral in 1994, Mr. Agnew made a rare public appearance and said he had put aside the anger that had followed his resignation.
        ''I decided after 20 years of resentment to put it all aside,'' he said. ''The last time I talked to him was the day I resigned. He tried to call me after that several times but I didn't take the calls because at the time I felt totally abandoned. But that's all past.''
        After years of delay, he made a return of sorts to Washington, when his bust was unveiled in May 1995 in an area just outside the United States Senate chamber that is restricted to senators and staff members.
      