
        George B. Roberts, a retired vice president of Citibank and a longtime editor of its influential newsletter, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 102.
        Before retiring from Citibank in 1959, Mr. Roberts was director of its economics department. For more than three decades, he co-edited the bank's Monthly Economic Letter, which had been established in 1914 by his father, George E. Roberts, who was twice director of the United States Mint. Until the newsletter was discontinued in 1981, it was widely read by government officials, business leaders and academicians.
        Mr. Roberts also had a long association with the National Bureau of Economic Research, serving on its board of directors from 1943 to 1969 and as treasurer, vice president and chairman. He remained chairman of the bureau's investment committee until 1982, when he was named a director emeritus.
        Mr. Roberts was born in 1894 in Fort Dodge, Iowa. After graduating from the Columbia University School of Journalism in 1917, Mr. Roberts became a first lieutenant in the United States Army, serving in Europe in 1918 and 1919. He began his career at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which he left in 1926 to join Citibank, then called the National City Bank of New York. In 1932, Mr. Roberts was named the American member of the Gold Delegation of the Financial Committee of the League of Nations, which studied the adequacy of gold supplies as the basis for world currencies.
        Mr. Roberts's first marriage, to the former Martha Dodd, ended in divorce in 1934. His second wife, the former Jerry McCord, died in 1965.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Guilhermina Brandon, whom he married in 1973; five children, Pamela Norman of Riverside, Calif.; David, of Plainfield, N.H.; Judith Cohen of Pomona, N.Y.; Katherine Careddu of Covington, La., and Ginger Berrigan of New Orleans; a foster daughter, Jacqueline Scammel of Cockermouth, England; a stepson, Francisco Brandon of St. Paul, Minn., 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      