
        Jose Toribio Merino Castro, a Chilean admiral who played an important role in the violent military coup in Chile in 1973 and was in the ruling military junta from then until 1990, died on Friday in a military hospital in the port of Valparaiso. He was 80.
        Admiral Merino, who was retired, had lymphatic cancer, Reuters reported. He was the commander of the Chilean Navy from September 1973 -- the month of the coup -- until February 1990. He lived quietly after Chile returned to civilian rule in 1990.
        After the coup -- against President Salvador Allende, a Marxist -- Admiral Merino and two fellow admirals recalled that they had been its originators and that it had been Admiral Merino who had persuaded the Army chief, Gen. Augusto Pinochet Ugarte, to join their cause.
        In the uprising, Admiral Merino directed a Navy blockade of Valparaiso, which is the country's second-largest city as well as its chief port. Meanwhile, military aircraft attacked the Presidential Palace, and Dr. Allende died there.
        Afterward, the admiral was one of the ruling junta's four members, along with General Pinochet. The four were supposed to share power equally, and the Presidency of the junta was to rotate among them. But General Pinochet soon emerged as the most important figure in the Government and discarded the idea of a rotating Presidency.
        General Pinochet left the junta in 1980, when he became President. Admiral Merino was the only one of the four original junta members who stayed in the junta for its entire 17-year history.
        As a young man, he attended Chile's Naval Academy, specialized initially in gunnery and went on to command destroyers before becoming vice chief of the General Staff in 1964. He became commander of the fleet and commander of the First Naval Zone before becoming the Navy's commander in chief.
        Reports of his death in May of this year proved premature and caused embarrassment among the Navy's current leadership because another admiral announced that erroneously. Soon afterward, it was said that Admiral Merino had asked to leave the Valparaiso hospital to end to speculation that he had died.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, the former Margarita Riofrio Bustos, and three daughters, M. Angelica, Carolina and Teresita.
      