
        Wilhelm Angele, a member of the team of scientists who began the American rocket program in the 1950's and whose last contribution will help test parts of Einstein's general theory of relativity in a project scheduled for the year 2002, died on Aug. 22 in a hospital in Richmond. Mr. Angele, who was 91, formerly lived in Huntsville, Ala., where he worked at the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center.
        He was born in Memmingen, Germany, became an engineer and was hired by the Siemens concern in Berlin to develop ways to make color film for the movies.
        Working with the German armed forces in World War II, Mr. Angele  joined Wernher von Braun's engineering team and made electrical parts for the guidance system of the V-2 rockets that struck Britain near the end of the war.
        Along with Dr. von Braun and most of the scientists who worked in the German town of Peenemunde, Mr. Angele was brought in secrecy to the United States. In 1950, the team  moved to Huntsville to start a rocket program. Subsequently, Mr. Angele worked on a number of projects for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, including the Saturn launching rocket.
        He specialized in developing flat conductor cables for electricity and the fittings to connect them, and he received many patents for this work. The technology was useful in space technology because flat cables take up less room than the conventional round ones.
        He also devised machinery to produce perfectly round spheres and a way to measure deviations in roundness within one-tenth of a millionth of an inch. That feat, achieved at the space flight center in Huntsville in the 1960's, contributed to the current project for NASA being conducted by the physics department of Stanford University, Gravity Probe B.
        Scheduled for launching in October 2002, the Gravity Probe B is designed to investigate problems in the relativity of space and time, and Einstein's formulation of it.
        Gravity Probe B will orbit at an altitude of 400 miles directly over the poles. Its vital gyroscope rotors, fine-tuned with Mr. Angele's technology, are so free of disturbance that the mission will provide an almost perfect way of measuring space in reference to time.
        Mr. Angele retired from NASA in 1974 as a division chief in Huntsville, overseeing the practical applications of space hardware.
        His wife of 52 years, Hildegard Zimmermann Angele, died last year. He is survived by two daughters, Barbara Lusk of Huntsville and Christiane Jacobson of Richmond.
      