
        Dr. William S. Clark, a rheumatologist who helped lead the March of Dimes when it switched its focus from polio to birth defects and juvenile arthritis, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of kidney failure, his wife,  Vivien Clark, said.
        Dr. Clark, an expert on arthritis, joined the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in 1958 and soon became its medical director. With polio in retreat, the group changed its name the next year to the National Foundation-the March of Dimes to reflect its wider mission.
        Dr. Clark came up with the idea of setting up ''exemplary care treatment centers'' nationwide that would bring in teams of doctors from different specialties to deal with birth defects and juvenile arthritis.
        Charles L. Massey, president emeritus of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (it adopted that name in 1979), said Dr. Clark had been able to bridge medical specialties at the March of Dimes centers and institute a team approach to children's medical problems, a novel concept at the time.
        ''By the time he left, in 1964,'' Mr. Massey said, ''those programs were model programs that existed all around the country and provided a basis for the March of Dimes' success. These regional centers were particularly meaningful to the organization's volunteers and supporters because the centers provided them with visible evidence of the change to the new program.''
        When the March of Dimes transferred its juvenile arthritis program to the Arthritis Foundation in 1964, Dr. Clark became president of that group, a position he held until 1970.
        Dr. Clark went back into practice in New York City, becoming medical director at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in 1975. He brought his team-based approach with him, said Dr. Charles L. Christian, a rheumatologist in Jacksonville, Fla., who said, ''That style of management has become the norm for treating chronic disease.'' Dr. Clark was chief of the rheumatology division at St. Luke's-Roosevelt from 1979 until 1988.
        William Stratton Clark was born in Dayton, Ohio, and received a medical degree from St. Louis University in 1938. He spent 40 years in academic medicine, at Harvard, Case Western Reserve, Cornell and Columbia Universities.
        Dr. Clark is survived by his wife; two sons, William Jr., of Meredith, N.H., and James, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; two daughters, Judith Lecklider, of Nashua, N.H., and Robin Hendricks, of Richmond, Vt.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      