
        Harold L. Tinker, a revered Choate School English master who spent a good part of his life collecting rare first editions and an even better part giving them away, died on Sept. 21 at his home in West Tisbury, Mass. He was 99 and had maintained his home on Martha's Vineyard for 60 years.
        Spending 39 years at a premiere New England prep school charged with teaching the sometimes loutish sons of wealthy industrialists may not seem like the most rewarding life for a man who developed such a deep interest in Thomas Hardy that he spent many summers collecting the author's works and researching his life in Dorset and Devon.
        But Mr. Tinker, who retired from Choate in 1962, had a ready explanation for why he never sought a more scholarly career teaching seasoned students at the college level.
        He liked to catch them young, he would say, when you could still get to them and could see the light go off in their eyes, a light, to be sure, that would find a twinkling reflection in Mr. Tinker's own eyes.
        For at Choate's Wallingford, Conn., campus, where masters are expected to be more than teachers, Mr. Tinker, whose challenging motto was ''dispute the text,'' had such an inspiring impact on the thousands of boys he taught, counseled and befriended over the years that many of them remained devoted admirers for life.
        Perhaps his most famous conquest was a rambunctious and indifferent student from Boston named John F. Kennedy, who left Choate with such a devotion to his former master that he used to stop off in Wallingford for regular chats during his years in Congress.
        In what became a family legend, Mr. Kennedy was so concerned that his former master had not attended his wedding that he wrote him a letter during his honeymoon to say how much he had missed him.
        As Mr. Tinker, who had been on one of his research trips to England and had received neither the invitation nor news of the wedding, told it: ''I was probably the only person in the English-speaking world who did not know he was getting married.''
        As a teacher and as a man Mr. Tinker was distinctly of the old school, a product of an upbringing that almost a century later seems distinctly quaint.
        A native of Waltham, Mass., where his father worked for a while for the old Stanley Steamer company, Mr. Tinker grew up in Nashua, N.H., where his father became a high school shop teacher and brought up his four sons as devout Methodists.
        The father had intended to send his four sons to Wesleyan, a leading Methodist college, but when Mr. Tinker's older brother returned from a get-acquainted dinner at Wesleyan with the report that each place setting had included a package of Fatima cigarettes, the father was so aghast that he felt extreme measures were in order. So he canceled Wesleyan and sent his sons to Brown, then still known as a Baptist institution.
        For all that, Mr. Tinker, an accomplished tenor, helped work his way through Brown by singing in the Episcopal choir, accepted emergency assignments as a fill-in cantor for the local Jewish congregation and ended his days as a member of a Congregational church.
        In what must have been a major act of rebellion, Mr. Tinker, who began his career at Choate a year after his graduation in 1921, also began smoking a pipe, but only, perhaps, because it added to his image as the complete school master.
        He was so fastidious that long after his retirement he would startle passers-by on Martha's Vineyard who would see him riding his tractor-mower over his six-acre meadow on the hottest August day while wearing a vest, tweed jacket and his signature bow tie.
        Mr. Tinker, who had begun collecting books during his Brown days, became so addicted to his hobby that at Choate he felt compelled to limit his purchases to $2.50 a week. Even so, by haunting New England shops and bins he picked up enough first editions of 19th- and 20th-century American authors at 25 cents a piece to assemble one of the nation's premiere private collections.
        By the time he started giving them away, his books had become so valuable that he had to stagger his donations to spread out his tax deductions. And when he was finished, the John Hay Library at Brown had received some 3,000 volumes described as the single most important gift of 19th- and 20th-century English literature ever received by the college, and Choate, now known as Choate-Rosemary Hall, had several hundred Hardy and other treasures housed in the Harold L. Tinker Rare Book Room of the Mellon Library.
        Mr. Tinker, who was widowed twice, is survived by two daughters, Melissa Howland of West Tisbury and Nancy DeLong of West Falmouth, Mass.; three grandchildren,  and seven great-grandchildren.
      