
        Charles H. Kirbo, the courtly Georgia lawyer who was known as President Jimmy Carter's one-man kitchen cabinet, died on Monday at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. Mr. Kirbo, who lived in Roswell, Ga., an Atlanta suburb, was 79.
        The cause was complications from gall bladder surgery, said his brother, Bruce.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Kirbo was a retired partner in King & Spalding, a venerable and influential Atlanta law firm. He retired in 1987 but continued to maintain an office and a secretary.
        Mr. Kirbo's relationship with Mr. Carter began when he saved Mr. Carter from defeat in a rigged election for the Georgia Senate in 1962. He went on to become Mr. Carter's closest confidant as Mr. Carter rose to become the Governor of Georgia in 1970 and to serve as President from 1977 to 1981.
        Mr. Carter, in recalling their first meeting, when he was a 37-year-old peanut farmer and neophyte politician, once said, ''Going to see Charlie Kirbo that day was probably one of the smartest things I ever did in my life.''
        Though Mr. Kirbo shunned the limelight and preferred his status as an untitled, unsalaried adviser to any appointive position, he did much more than serve as Mr. Carter's lawyer and financial trustee during his White House years. As a strategist, Mr. Kirbo suggested that Mr. Carter disdain an issue-oriented campaign against Gerald R. Ford and concentrate on the restoration of confidence in Government.
        ''I thought people would buy that,'' Mr. Kirbo said. ''They were wore out on issues.''
        He also supervised Mr. Carter's choice of Walter F. Mondale as his Vice President, gave tactical advice during the 1976 primaries and played a major role in fashioning the proclamation that was the first significant act of the Carter Presidency: a pardon to nearly all draft evaders from the Vietnam War era.
        ''I may be wrong, and I may be biased, but I'm sure as hell not uncertain,'' was the way Mr. Kirbo described his willingness to express opinions.
        A lawyer who knew Mr. Kirbo for a long time said: ''Charlie doesn't care much about politics, and he doesn't give a damn about government. All he cares about is Jimmy.''
        Every two weeks or so, Mr. Kirbo would fly to Washington from Atlanta and spend a day in the corridors of the West Wing of the White House, dropping in on important officials.
        Then he would get together with Mr. Carter and his wife, Rosalynn,  usually over dinner, to discuss what he had heard and ponder political problems occupying the President.
        ''We'll talk about whatever is on the skillet,'' Mr. Kirbo said. ''Some of it is politics, but a lot of it has to do with staff and personnel problems.''
        He also offered advice on legislative and fiscal policy, but he continued -- as he had since 1971, when Governor Carter offered to appoint him to a United States Senate vacancy -- to resist a formal appointment.
        ''Seems to me you need a little distance to be of much help, and I generally try to keep that distance,'' Mr. Kirbo said.
        Mr. Carter first sought Mr. Kirbo's advice when he concluded that he had been cheated out of the Democratic nomination for a State Senate seat because a crucial ballot box had been stuffed. In that race, 420 ballots were counted although only 333 had been officially issued.
        With the general election weeks away, Mr. Carter began looking for the best lawyer around. His older cousin, Don Carter, recommended Mr. Kirbo.
        Mr. Kirbo had the ballot box impounded. When it was opened, there were 111 clumped ballots atop an otherwise orderly pile. Mr. Kirbo won his case. Mr. Carter won the nomination and the election.
        Charles Hughes Kirbo was born on March 5, 1917, in Bainbridge, a rural town in southern Georgia.
        The sixth of eight children, he was brought up in a pious home where honesty, education and hard work were emphasized. He earned a law degree from the University of Georgia in 1939 and served in the Army in World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Kirbo earned a sterling reputation as a trial lawyer whose rumpled appearance and sleepy drawl masked intellectual rigor and sophistication. In 1960, King & Spalding, whose clients included Coca-Cola and General Motors, invited him to become a partner.
        In addition to his brother, Bruce W., of Bainbridge, Mr. Kirbo is survived by his wife, Margaret LeGette Kirbo, of Roswell; a son, Charles H. Jr., of Bainbridge; three daughters, Susan Ray Kirbo, of Charlotte, Ga., Betsy Anne Kirbo, of Roswell and Katherine LeGette Kirbo, of Athens, Ga.; a sister, Carolyn K. Lucas, of Graceville, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      