
        Fred Speaker, a former Pennsylvania Attorney General who had such a visceral reaction the first time he saw the state's electric chair that he ordered it dismantled and declared the death penalty unconstitutional, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Harrisburg, Pa. He was 66 and lived in nearby Camp Hill.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        A native of Williamsport, Pa., who studied briefly at the University of Pennsylvania, he served in Army counterintelligence forces and received a law degree from St. John's University.
        Mr. Speaker had a long and prominent legal career. He represented a variety of private clients, counseled governors and legislators, screened state judicial appointments and was President Richard M. Nixon's personal choice to run the National Legal Services program.
        But he never doubted for a moment that his greatest achievement was a stunning, quixotic gesture he made in January 1971, on his last day as state Attorney General, when he single-handedly abolished the death penalty in Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Speaker, a Republican who had been appointed Attorney General by Gov. Raymond P. Shafer six months earlier, had been planning the move ever since he paid a chance visit to Rockview Penitentary at Bellefonte and been taken to the state's death chamber, where he saw the big wooden electric chair sitting starkly in a room with an overhead exhaust fan to remove the stench of death and holes in the floor so the official witnesses to an execution could have a place to throw up.
        As Mr. Speaker later recalled, it was all he could do to keep from throwing up himself, as he suddenly realized that for all the legal trappings and statutory authority, executions, which he had previously supported, were no more than premeditated, cold-blooded ''administrative murder.''
        ''All I had to do was see that electric chair,'' he said. ''I looked at the place where somebody pulls the switch and burns somebody to death. That just wiped out all the great philosophical views that I had.''
        Biding his time until the day in January 1971 when Governor Shafer was replaced by a Democrat, Milton J. Shapp, Mr. Speaker, who was planning to drive to Washington with a friend, listened on the car radio until the new Governor had been sworn in.
        Then, mindful that he would be Attorney General until his successor had been approved by the State Senate and sworn in, he got out of the car and mailed an official letter to the Rockville prison warden, ordering him to dismantle the electric chair and citing an accompanying legal opinion he had signed declaring the death penalty unconstitutional as ''cruel and inhuman punishment.''
        Partly because there had been no executions in Pennsylvania since 1962, it was a largely symbolic gesture. Indeed, his ruling that the death penalty was unconstitutional was quickly rescinded by the new Governor, but by then the electric chair had in fact been dismantled and the death chamber converted to an office for prison psychologists.
        During the years of legal jockeying that took place after the Supreme Court suspended capital punishment in 1972, another Governor had the electric chair rebuilt. But by last year, when Pennsylvania carried out its first execution since 1962, the state had replaced the electric chair with lethal injection.
        Despite the furor his action created, Mr. Speaker was so highly regarded by the Nixon Administration that the President himself persuaded him to become director of the legal service program.
        Mr. Speaker accepted the job, but he brought his conscience to Washington with him. And when he accused Vice President Spiro T. Agnew of working to influence a case filed by the legal services office, he resigned in protest the next year.
        Mr. Speaker entered private practice in Harrisburg but became an outspoken opponent of the death penalty, appearing at rallies, giving speeches and always stressing that his concern was not for the condemned criminal but for a society he saw as condemning itself by sanctioning the very act the death penalty was supposedly designed to punish and deter.
        As he once said: ''I know that if a man acts like an animal and kills another man he should be penned up like an animal, not set upon by a bloodthirsty society acting like an animal itself.''
        Opposing the death penalty was not his only passion. Mr. Speaker, a friend of the Penn State football coach, Joe Paterno, was such a Penn State fan that he missed only four home games in 30 years.
        Mr. Speaker is survived by his wife, JoAnn; six sons, Mark, of Yardley, Pa., Paul, of Morgantown, W. Va., Peter, of Camp Hill, Pa., Joseph, of Dillsburg, Pa., Andrew, of Newtown, Pa., and Thomas, of Flemington, N.J., and 16 grandchildren.
      