
        Spiro T. Agnew, the tart-tongued political combatant who fired up the American electorate but then had to resign as Richard M. Nixon's Vice President in the face of a kickback scandal, died on Tuesday at the age of 77.
        The cause was acute leukemia, which had gone undiagnosed until his death, said officials of Atlantic General Hospital in Berlin, Md., where Mr. Agnew died within three hours of admission.
        A classic practitioner of the hatchet-man role often assigned to Vice Presidents, Mr. Agnew was nationally celebrated by conservatives for his alliterative rallying cries against critics of President Nixon's Vietnam War policy as ''nattering nabobs'' and ''pusillanimous pussyfooters.''
        His political demise proved no less sensational. He had to bargain as Vice President with prosecutors to avoid prison and finally pleaded no contest to tax evasion charges in a lucrative statehouse ward-heeling scheme that dated from his public service in Maryland politics but continued to reap payoffs even to his days as Vice President.
        Mr. Agnew's resignation on Oct. 10, 1973, capped a heated, flaring five years on the national scene where he gleefully stirred partisan emotions, from celebration to rancor. A searing crisis of Presidential succession was precipitated by his resignation and that of President Nixon less than a year later in the separate abuse-of-power scandal known as Watergate.
        ''Of all those caught up -- on both sides -- in the American tragedy of 1973-1974, Spiro Agnew was one of the good guys,'' said Patrick J. Buchanan, the unsuccessful Republican candidate for President who mourned the disgraced Vice President today for ''raw political courage'' in having served as ''the voice of the silent majority.''
        More than two decades removed from the collapse of the Nixon-Agnew incumbency, the national capital today was on a steadier keel, flying most flags, but not all, at half-staff in Mr. Agnew's honor, as some politicians, but not all, spoke well of him in retrospect.
        ''Spiro Agnew earned the support of millions of his countrymen because he was never afraid to speak out and stand up for America,'' said Bob Dole, the Republican candidate for President.
        Former President George Bush said of Mr. Agnew: ''He was a friend. I loved his family.''
        In his heyday, Mr. Agnew was bolstered by the confrontational writing skills of such White House speechwriters as Mr. Buchanan, who penned ''pusillanimous pussyfooters'' and ''vicars of vacillation,'' and by William Safire, now a columnist for The New York Times, who crafted ''nattering nabobs of negativism.'' But Mr. Agnew's zest in wielding these denunciations in the cut-and-thrust of politics was all his own, electrifying and polarizing the nation.
        One speech in particular, an excoriation of the ''instant analysis'' of political speeches by television anchors, written by Mr. Buchanan, was delivered so effectively by Mr. Agnew that it set off deep debate about responsibility in the news industry that resonates still with voters.
        Feelings of Resentment For Political Benefactor
        A resourceful man with a cadre of loyal friends in business, politics and show business, Mr. Agnew departed from Washington with special bitterness toward Mr. Nixon who, said, Mr. Agnew, ''naively believed that by throwing me to the wolves, he had appeased his enemies.''
        ''I felt totally abandoned,'' he said later.
        Across the years, he rebuffed eight efforts by Mr. Nixon to talk or meet, Nixon friends said. Mr. Agnew ultimately relented, but only to go to Mr. Nixon's funeral in 1994.
        ''I decided after 20 years of resentment to put it all aside,'' he said as fellow mourners took note of the signature nattiness and pugnacious smile of the fallen politician. ''The last time I talked to him was the day I resigned.''
        He had been quickly replaced as Vice President by Representative Gerald R. Ford in Mr. Nixon's effort to recover momentum. But the encompassing whirlwind of the Watergate scandal and hearings saw Mr. Nixon follow Mr. Agnew into resignation and disgrace in August 1974, as a White House political plot against the Democrats and subsequent cover-up was painfully brought to light. A national trauma shook political life to its foundations and Jimmy Carter eventually was chosen by the voters in 1976 to replace President Ford.
        After resigning, Mr. Agnew, who had a second successful business career as a broker of international deals, insisted that he had never been guilty of accepting bribes in Maryland from state contractors. In 1980, he wrote a book, ''Go Quietly . . . or Else,'' contending that he had accepted only campaign contributions, not bribes.
        With his familiar flair of self-confidence back on the scene, he insisted he had been forced to resign by scheming Nixon aides, not by the 40-page specification of charges at his court plea. There, the judge had pointedly reminded Mr. Agnew that his plea of nolo contendere to tax evasion was understood as the ''full equivalent'' of a guilty plea.
        Cocky and Combative, Even Amid Legal Woes
        As events developed, however, assertions in the book freed Mr. Agnew's former lawyer, George White, from the obligation of lawyer-client privilege and he came forward to testify that Mr. Agnew had not only admitted statehouse bribery to him but also said it had been going on ''for a thousand years.''
        A Maryland taxpayers' suit then succeeded in detailing the bribery, chapter and verse. A civil court found in 1981 that Mr. Agnew solicited $147,500 in bribes during 10 years as Baltimore County Executive and Governor, accepting the final $17,500 in discreet envelopes even as he served as Vice President.
        A Maryland assistant attorney general, Diana Motz, declared: ''Spiro Agnew used the privilege of his high office for his own purposes. He violated his trust.''
        In its rich detail of witnesses and payoff incidents, the suit definitively established the tinhorn nature of the statehouse corruption in Mr. Agnew's tenure. Yet, ever combative, Mr. Agnew tried to use the case seven years later in applying for a tax deduction in California, where he had a home in the affluent town of Rancho Mirage.
        He argued that the reimbursement of $268,482 in bribes and interest that he had been forced to make to the State of Maryland entitled him to a deduction. His reasoning was rejected by the tax appeals board in California.
        The self-confident Mr. Agnew, who ascended from school board and county politics to make his name at the Nixon White House, has gone down in Maryland political lore for a stylish, wisecracking, casual cronyism that extended to friends who stocked his home with free food and drink.
        ''Some of the things he said during his lifetime were extreme and regrettable, but nonetheless I mourn his passing,'' said former Senator George McGovern, who was roughed up rhetorically by the Nixon-Agnew ticket in going down to defeat as the Democratic Presidential nominee in 1972. Mr. Agnew, skewering Mr. McGovern's call for peace negotiations in Vietnam, had declared, ''Even Neville Chamberlain did not carry a beggar's cup to Munich -- as George McGovern proposes to carry to Hanoi.''
        By then Mr. Agnew was the practiced flash point of the Nixon Administration, a target of charges that he was incendiary and even racist in some of his flinty remarks in which he spoke of ''Polacks'' and a ''fat Jap.''
        The single Agnew quotation that lives on in the 16th edition of Bartlett's ''Familiar Quotations'' was uttered in 1968 when Mr. Agnew, a suburban-rooted politician campaigning as the ticket's urban expert, feistily defended his skirting some of the sorrier American scenes by declaring: ''To some extent, if you've seen one city slum you've seen them all.''
        Mr. Nixon surprised his party and nation when he plucked Spiro Theodore Agnew from relative political obscurity in Maryland, where he had been Governor for less than two years, and made him his running mate.
        ''Spiro Who?'' became the nation's instant question. The Washington Post editorialized that there had not been such a surprising political nomination since Caligula appointed his horse as a Consul of Rome. But once Mr. Agnew was fired up on the stump and Mr. Nixon had marched into the White House, their partisans' response came back: ''Spiro Our Hero.''
        Nixon biographers have singled out one moment in the Agnew Governorship that attracted the attention of Nixon strategists: the dressing down Mr. Agnew delivered to black civil rights leaders during a spate of urban rioting.
        ''It is not evil conditions that cause riots, but evil men,'' he declared. The moderate image that had helped Mr. Agnew to election in that heavily Democratic state soon became sharper-edged as he spoke up increasingly for ''law and order'' and insisted that rioting was caused by ''this permissive climate and the misguided compassion of public opinion.''
        At the Republicans' 1968 convention, when national unrest over the Vietnam War and civil protest was a dominant theme, Mr. Agnew was chosen to make the nominating speech for Mr. Nixon. Then he was astonished to find himself installed on the ticket.
        ''A bolt from the blue,'' he said.
        Mr. Nixon said of his choice: ''He has real depth and genuine warmth.'' He enthusiastically added, ''He has the attributes of a statesman of the first rank.''
        In the privacy of the Nixon White House, however, the President's estimate of Mr. Agnew was mocking and dismissive, said John Ehrlichman, who was the President's counsel and domestic affairs adviser. In his 1982 memoir, ''Witness to Power,'' Mr. Ehrlichman described why Mr. Nixon kept Mr. Agnew on the re-election ticket in 1972 even though he despised him as a fool and an idler and would send him off on speaking tours of Indian reservations.
        ''No assassin in his right mind would kill me,'' President Nixon liked to joke, Mr. Ehrlichman said. ''They know if they did that they would wind up with Agnew!''
        From a Zoning Board To the Executive Office
        A generation ago, before his fall, Mr. Agnew was rated the third most popular public figure in America, behind President Nixon and the Rev. Billy Graham. He had arrived on the national scene as a political success story, a Greek immigrant's son with a talent for ambitious socializing in politics.
        ''Ted got into politics through the P.T.A.,'' recalled his wife of 54 years, the former Elinor Isabel Judefind, known as Judy. ''He kind of spread out.''
        Well tailored, friendly and attentive to detail, he rose in public service from three years as a party appointee on a local zoning board to four years as elected Baltimore County Executive, chief of the suburb that borders the city of Baltimore, and then the governorship.
        He was born in Baltimore on Nov. 9, 1918, and reared in the inner city, but moved out to the suburbs in the post-immigrant wave of successful migration.
        A public school graduate, Mr. Agnew entered Johns Hopkins University to major in chemistry but then moved on to night school at the University of Baltimore Law School while he worked as an insurance company clerk by day.
        In 1942, Mr. Agnew began three years of Army service, graduating from Officer Training School and serving as a company commander with the 10th Armored Division. He saw action in four World War II campaigns and earned the Bronze Star. After the war, he completed his law degree and worked in a variety of jobs, finally moving to the suburbs and finding his way into and soon upward in Republican Party politics.
        Out Front in Battle To Win Public Opinion
        In office, Mr. Agnew quickly built upon his public persona, as the news media covered his controversy-etched speeches as closely as Mr. Nixon's. He derided war protesters as ''an effete corps of impudent snobs,'' and television commentators as ''a tiny fraternity of privileged men elected by no one and enjoying a monopoly sanctioned and licensed by the government.''
        His barbed criticism of news organizations put them on the defensive and in the awkward position of having to report news about themselves and, Mr. Agnew's partisans maintained, even helped prod such changes as wider-ranging editorial pages and columnists.
        Vice President Agnew assailed The Washington Post and The New York Times, declaring, ''The American people should be made aware of the trend toward the monopolization of the great public information vehicles and the concentration of power over public opinion in fewer and fewer hands.''
        Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, president and publisher of The Times, responded that Mr. Agnew spoke in error ''when he implies that The New York Times ever sought or enjoyed immunity from comment or criticism.''
        The Nixon Administration took comfort as Mr. Agnew scored with parts of the public and heightened his alliterative volleys to near-parody as he denounced ''hopeless, hysterical hypochondriacs of history.'' (Years after the Vice President was forced to leave the public stage, Mr. Safire mourned, ''And all alliteration ached.'')
        Herbert Klein, the Nixon Administration's director of communications, defended Mr. Agnew's combativeness as a necessary mission ''to explain in a missionary way what Administration policies are and to seek support for them.'' The Vice President ''fills a basic need which the President can't do,'' Mr. Klein added.
        With ''God Bless Spiro Agnew'' posters sprouting partisanly across the land, Mr. Agnew did heavy duty in the 1970 off-year elections, attacking Democrats as ''radic-libs'' and even ''ideological eunuchs'' for encouraging protest against the war. Commentators credited him with considerable success as such prominent Democrats as Senator Albert Gore Sr. of Tennessee, father of the current Vice President, went down to defeat.
        As controversy rose, so did Mr. Agnew's hopes to succeed President Nixon. But a month after taking the oath for a second term, Mr. Agnew was told that a grand jury in Baltimore was looking into charges about his public service there.
        He clung to office for another eight months, delivering speeches on his innocence and his refusal to resign even as his lawyers began plea bargaining in the face of Mr. Agnew's possible imprisonment. With classic Nixonian wording, the White House issued a statement vouching for the President's confidence in Mr. Agnew ''during the period that he has served as Vice President.''
        In one of his last speeches while in office, Mr. Agnew presented himself to a Los Angeles audience as outraged. He fairly bellowed: ''I will not resign if indicted! I will not resign if indicted!''
        But his effort to limit his accountability to political peers in an impeachment proceeding in Congress failed. With his resignation considered a factor in his plea bargain arrangement, Mr. Agnew finally sent Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger a note of concession: ''I hereby resign the office of Vice President of the United States, effective immediately.''
        At that moment, Mr. Agnew was in court in Baltimore, pursued by an army of the very news workers he once delighted in attacking. The deal he bargained spared him indictment on kickback and bribery charges as he accepted the tax evasion plea. The judge ordered three years' probation and a fine of $10,000, and Mr. Agnew disappeared from public view.
        He surfaced from time to time in a new life of worldwide business travels and an apparently rich social life with Frank Sinatra and other influential figures in his new California circles. Making influential contacts was his specialty, Mr. Agnew once said. In one business undertaking, Mr. Agnew served as the intermediary in a complex $181 million deal by former Nixon aides to sell uniforms to Saddam Hussein of Iraq. His intermediary role was recommended by Mr. Nixon himself to the supplier of the uniforms, the Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, the historian Stephen E. Ambrose said.
        After Political Demise, A Re-Emergence of Sorts
        Twenty-one years after he left Washington in disgrace, Mr. Agnew returned to the Capitol, a quieter man, but still proud as he stood at the unveiling of an addition to the Capitol statuary corridors, a marble bust of the 39th Vice President, Spiro T. Agnew.
        ''I'm not blind or deaf to the fact that there are critics who feel this is a ceremony that should not take place,'' Mr. Agnew began, offering a wisp of the old scrappiness. But no combative alliteration was forthcoming. He smiled and thanked the sculptor for capturing ''my squinty little eyes and mastodonic nose.''
        ''Lord God, you are the ultimate judge,'' prayed Senator Mark O. Hatfield, the Oregon Republican whose anti-war legislation was vehemently denounced in its day by Mr. Agnew. Loyal friends in a gathering of 300 privately asked, If Aaron Burr's statue is there, why not Spiro Agnew's?
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Agnew is survived by a son, James Rand Agnew of Fort Myers, Fla., and three daughters, Pamela DeHaven of Hagerstown, Md., Susan Bach of La Quinta, Calif., and Kimberly Fisher of Peterborough, N.H.
      