
        Arthur B. Treman Jr., a former New York investment banker with Dillon, Read & Company who remained active in community service, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 67.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        He retired in 1981 as a partner and president of Dillon, Read. At his death, he was a member of the board of managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mr. Treman, a native of Ithaca, N.Y., was the son of a Wall Street investor and graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1944 and from Williams College in 1951. He joined Dillon, Read as an associate immediately upon his graduation from Harvard Business School three years later, alongside Nicholas F. Brady and other future top executives.
        Rising steadily in the investment banking firm, Mr. Treman was named a vice president in 1963 and a director and executive vice president in 1971. He became president in 1974, when Mr. Brady, who later served as Secretary of the Treasury in the Reagan and Bush Administrations, assumed the chairmanship.
        As president and a managing partner, a title he added in 1975, Mr. Treman was the chief administrative officer of Dillon, Read, supervising all its activities in corporate, government and municipal finance.
        During much of his tenure as president, he worked in tandem with Mr. Brady, overseeing day-to-day operations. In effect, Mr. Treman played the part of Mr. Inside to Mr. Brady's publicly more visible Mr. Outside.
        An investment banker with a keen sense of corporate finance, Mr. Treman added valuable clients to the firm's portfolio, like the Adolph Coors and Southland Royalty companies.
        After his retirement, he continued his role as a talent spotter who recruited executives who later rose to become leaders in the investment banking business.
        He was a trustee of Deerfield Academy, Outward Bound and the Bank Street College of Education, and an active Big Brother with Big Brothers Inc.
        Mr. Treman is survived by his companion of many years, Edith Gwathmey of Manhattan, and his sister, Jane T. Gilbert of Dorset, Vt.
      