
        Charles P. Bean, a physicist known for his analyses of superconductivity and magnetism, died on Monday in Fairfax, Va. He was 72 and lived in Niskayuna, N.Y.
        Dr. Bean died of what appeared to be a heart attack while on a business trip, according to the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., where he was a professor emeritus.
        Dr. Ivar Giaever, a physicist and longtime friend who worked with him at the General Electric Research and Development Center in Schenectedy and at Rensselaer, said Dr. Bean was best known for a theory of superconductivity, the flow of electricity through a material that provides virtually no resistance.
        The Bean model explains a type of superconductor used in medical instruments like magnetic resonance imaging machines as well as many high-temperature superconductors. In these Type 2 superconductors the magnetic field penetrates to the interior of the superconductor, while in Type 1 superconductors, it does not.
        Dr. Bean, who spent 34 years at General Electric, publishing major papers on magnetism, was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1976 and to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1977. He left General Electric in 1985 to teach at Rensselaer, and he began doing research in biophysics, studying things like porous membranes and sea urchin sperm. Dr. Bean retired from Rensselaer in 1993 but continued to teach.
        As a researcher and as a teacher, Dr. Bean liked to work collaboratively, said Dr. Giaever, a Nobel laureate in physics. ''He has helped a lot of people, including me, to become world-renowned by providing ideas and insights,'' Dr. Giaever said.
        Charles Palmer Bean was born in Buffalo on Nov. 27, 1923. He graduated from the University of Buffalo in 1947 with a bachelor's degree in physics, and he earned a doctorate in physics at the University of Illinois in 1952.
        His wife, Elizabeth Harriman Bean, died in 1990. Dr. Bean is survived by his companion, Jenny Overeynder; three daughters, Katherine Yancey of Washington, Margaret Busby of Agana, Guam, and Sarah Amour of Takoma Park, Md.; two sons, Bruce P., of Newton, Mass., and Gordon T., of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      