
        Pierre Franey, who rose from pot scrubber in a Paris bistro to executive chef of the legendary Pavillon restaurant and later to a career as a  New York Times food columnist and cookbook author, died yesterday in Southampton, England. He was 75 years old.
        As the 60-Minute Gourmet, Mr. Franey simplified classic French cooking for busy home cooks.
        Mr. Franey suffered a stroke on Saturday shortly after giving a cooking demonstration on board the Queen Elizabeth 2 en route to England. He was transferred to a hospital when the ship docked in Southampton on Monday but never regained consciousness, said Diane Vergnes, a family friend.
        Mrs. Vergnes said she had spoken several times to Mr. Franey's wife, Betty, who had accompanied her husband on the crossing.
        Mr. Franey was escorting a tour group, Mrs. Vergnes said, and had planned to visit family members in France before returning to New York. His body will be flown to the United States on Thursday or Friday, Mrs. Franey told her.
        Mr. Franey (pronounced fra-NAY) has been well known in food and restaurant circles for more than 40 years. He first came to national attention in 1976 when The Times's restaurant critic, Craig Claiborne, a close friend and collaborator, entered a Channel 13 fund-raising auction and won a dinner for two, anywhere in the world, price no object.
        The two men chose a Paris restaurant, Chez Denis, and on the appointed day, worked their way through a 31-course dinner and a collection of rare and expensive wines. The bill, roughly $10,000 in 1996 dollars, was picked up by American Express, which had donated the prize.
        Mr. Claiborne's account of the adventure, appearing on page 1 of The Times, caused a furor. Many readers were intrigued by the account; many others, as Mr. Franey later reported, ''took us to task for such conspicuous consumption.''
        Mr. Franey and Mr. Claiborne had become friends 18 years earlier, when Mr. Claiborne, then a 37-year-old food reporter for The Times, went to Le Pavillon restaurant to interview its owner, Henri Soule. The article, which appeared on April 13, 1959, said almost as much about Mr. Franey, then the restaurant's executive chef, as it did about Mr. Soule.
        Le Pavillon closed the following year, and Mr. Franey moved to Howard Johnson as a vice president.
        The Howard Johnson post was a 9-to-5 job that gave Mr. Franey plenty of time to spend with Mr. Claiborne. ''He used me as a sort of silent partner in his restaurant reviewing,'' Mr. Franey recalled in his memoir, ''A Chef's Tale'' (Knopf, 1994). ''We would go from place to place, making our judgments. For all my life I had been confined to one kitchen or another. But here I was suddenly getting to see an entirely different world.''
        Mr. Franey was born in 1921 in Tonnerre, in northern Burgundy, the focal point of great French cooking. His first kitchen was in his parents' home in the nearby village of St.-Villemer. In his memoir, he described an idyllic childhood of trout fishing, searching for Burgundy snails and feasting on the cheeses of neighboring villages, which varied, depending on the hay and the herbs the cows ate. By the time he was 5, his family was calling him Pierre le Gourmand.
        In 1934, as a teen-ager, he went to Paris, where his family had arranged an apprenticeship in a little restaurant on the Place de la Repu blique. Within a year he was working at Drouant, one of the city's most famous restaurants, a favorite of Renoir and Pissarro in an earlier epoch and the site, still, of the annual dinner for the awarding of the Goncourt literary prize.
        The late 1930's were a grim time in France. The streets of Paris were filled with brawling right-wing thugs. Even in quiet St.-Villemer, Mr. Franey's father, a blacksmith and a Socialist who was Mayor of the village, was the subject of constant threats.
        So when Mr. Franey, by then a young cook, was offered a job on the staff that was being assembled for the restaurant at the French pavilion at the 1939 World's Fair in New York, he took it.
        When World War II broke out, Mr. Franey remained with the pavilion's  restaurant when it moved into Manhattan from Flushing Meadows. From second fish cook, he rose to the top post, not only at Le Pavillon, but at Mr. Soule's second and third restaurants, La Cote Basque and the Hedges, a summer place in East Hampton, L.I.
        In 1960, he broke with Mr. Soule, apparently over money. The two never spoke again.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Claiborne resigned from The Times, and for a while, he and Mr. Franey published a food and restaurant newsletter. When Mr. Claiborne returned to the paper in 1976, he insisted that Mr. Franey come with him. Thus began ''The 60-Minute Gourmet'' column.
        Arthur Gelb, a retired managing editor of The Times who was instrumental in hiring Mr. Franey, said yesterday: ''Before Pierre Franey, haute cuisine was confined to the palates of the privileged. In partnership with Craig Claiborne, he popularized it, leading the way in making it understood and relished by the general public.''
        Over the years, Mr. Franey and Mr. Claiborne collaborated on five books, including ''Craig Claiborne's The New York Times Cookbook,'' ''Classic French Cooking'' and ''Cooking With Craig Claiborne and Pierre Franey.'' At various times, Mr. Franey collaborated on other books with Richard Flaste, a former editor with The Times, and with Bryan Miller, a former Times restaurant critic.
        Mr. Franey readily acknowledged their help and that his skills were at the ovens and not with the pen.
        As an alien working legally in the United States, Mr. Franey chose to join the Army, but when he was asked to become personal cook to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, he refused. ''It was the opposite direction from France and my family,'' he said later. So he was sent to a cooks' and bakers' school in Alabama.
        After an unauthorized weekend away from camp with a girlfriend, he was dismissed from cooking school and sent to an infantry division in England as a machine gunner. ''I would always find myself cooking anyway,'' he recalled, ''as soon as the guys discovered that I had some skill in that area.''
        After retiring from The Times, Mr. Franey embarked on a successful career in television, appearing in several cooking series on public television. Those programs led to a continuous series of personal engagements around the country as a cooking instructor and lecturer, to further book contracts and to assignments like the one on the QE2 that he was fulfilling at the time of his death. This last project was a ''theme cruise,'' arranged by Food and Wines of France, a spokesman for the Cunard Line said.
        In 1947, back in France to visit restaurants, Mr. Franey met Betty Chardenet, a young French-American woman who was also returning from a vacation in France. Mr. Franey had once worked for her father, then the room-service manager at the Waldorf-Astoria. They were married in 1948 and settled in East Hampton about the time that Mr. Soule opened his restaurant, the Hedges, there.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Franey leaves two daughters, Claudia Jensen of Larchmont and Diane Schaldanko of New York; a son, Jacques, of Garrison, N.Y., and six grandchildren. The services will be private and there will be a memorial at a later date.
      