
        Rene Lacoste, a member of the legendary Four Musketeers of French tennis, as well as the inventor of the metal racquet and the man behind a line of sportswear that became a status symbol, died Saturday in a hospital in St. Jean-de-Luz, France. He was 92.
        According to The Associated Press, his daughter, Catherine Lacoste, said her father's heart had failed in his sleep four days after surgery on a broken leg. Lacoste had been ailing for years because of prostate cancer.
        Lacoste's clothing line was considered the height of preppy fashion in the 1970's and 80's and was known for its logo of a crocodile, which was almost universally referred to as an alligator.
        While the polo shirts made him famous later in life, the embroidered reptile harked back to his days as a tennis star in the 20's, when he was called ''le Crocodile'' because of his durability on the court. He won 10 major titles and made 51 appearances for France in international Davis Cup competition in a career that lasted just seven years because of chronic health problems.
        The relatively unathletic Lacoste, who perfected a baseline game more out of necessity than choice, was a three-time singles champion at the French Open, where he claimed his nation's most cherished title in 1925, 1927 and 1929. He was Wimbledon's singles champion in 1925 and 1928, and he captured back-to-back championships at the United States Open in 1926 and 1927.
        His 11-9, 6-3, 11-9 victory in the United States Open final in 1927 against another tennis great, Bill Tilden, was considered a classic example of the dogged concentration required for a proficient backcourt performer to prevail against the fleet, attacking style favored by the strapping Tilden. Lacoste was just 22 years old, 12 years younger than the imposing Tilden, but his tenacity proved too exhausting for Tilden's ample talents.
        Jean Rene Lacoste was born in Paris on July 2, 1904. He did not take up the game until he visited Britain with his father at 15. When he decided he wanted to pursue a tennis career, his father, a prominent industrialist, allotted him just five years to make himself a champion.
        An avid student and, as his later ventures into the business world revealed, a capable innovator, Lacoste transformed himself into a world-class player within three years. His forte was a cagey counterattack from the backcourt, a spot from which he doled out his groundstrokes with a machinelike precision and indefatigability.
        At a time when the Davis Cup competition was as important as the Grand Slam tournaments, Lacoste was selected to join the already formidable cast of Jean Borotra, Henri Cochet and Jacques Brugnon on the 1923 French squad. The addition of Lacoste sealed the creation of the Four Musketeers, Davis Cup's most feared quartet. The high point of  Lacoste's Davis Cup career came with the defeat of the United States for the 1927 championship. France held the cup for five more years. Lacoste's Davis Cup record was 32-8  in singles and 8-3 in doubles.
        Playing doubles alongside the volleyer Borotra, Lacoste won the French Open doubles crown in 1924-25 and again in 1929, his final season of top-echelon competition.
        Unflappable on the court, where he was always impeccably prepared, Lacoste's legacy was evident in the style and demeanor of Bjorn Borg some 50 years later; like Lacoste, he carried a battery of racquets strung for every weather occasion, and he was the first true baseline player to capture Wimbledon since Lacoste last performed that feat in 1928.
        After leaving competition, Lacoste turned his attention to a variety of business projects. He founded the shirt company that bears his name and logo. In a 1973 interview with The Associated Press, Lacoste was at a loss to explain the popularity of the alligator emblem.
        ''There are kinds of things that just don't have any good explanation,'' he said. ''I suppose you could say that if it had been a really nice animal, something sympathetic, then maybe nothing would have happened. Suppose I had picked a rooster. Well, that's French, but it doesn't have the same impact.''
        He never stopped searching for the formula for the perfect tennis racquet, a quest that began when he designed a metal model for Wilson Sporting Goods that made its debut in 1967 and was wielded by Billie Jean King when she won Wimbledon in 1968.
        Besides designing racquets and golf clubs, Lacoste also wrote a tennis book, ''Lacoste on Tennis.''
        Lacoste had been in ill health for some time but kept busy working on racquet patents and painting landscapes up to the time of his death in Southwest France.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Simone Thion de la Chaume, the first French winner of golf's women's British Open; a son, Bernard, who took over the clothing company in 1964; two other sons, and numerous grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      