
        James P. Chapman, a confidant of Babe Ruth and one of the most influential men in the growth of Indy-car racing in the 1980's, died Thursday at the Georgian Bloomfield, a nursing home near Detroit. He was 80.
        Mr. Chapman, who lived in Birmingham, Mich., died of throat cancer.
        As regional director for Ford Motor Company in Detroit, Mr. Chapman hired Ruth in 1946 as consultant to Ford's sponsorship of American League Junior Baseball. The two traveled together for more than two years for promotional appearances. Mr. Chapman was at the great Yankee slugger's bedside when he died in August 1948. One of the mementos of their relationship that Mr. Chapman carried with him was a money clip with a pockmarked silver dollar that Ruth used to carry during games for good luck. The ballplayer, according to Mr. Chapman, had put the blemishes on the coin when he used it for target practice.
        Before working for Ford, Mr. Chapman was a journalist in Macon, Ga.; Toledo, Ohio, and at The New York Times, where he was a sportswriter.
        From 1981 to 1992, he was director of racing for P.P.G. Industries, a Pittsburgh-based manufacturer of automotive paints that sponsors the CART-P.P.G. Indy Car World Series. In that job, Mr. Chapman oversaw the distribution of millions of dollars for prize money and promotional programs that helped Championship Auto Racing Teams, the sanctioning body that conducted the nationwide series of Indy-car races, grow into one of the country's major race-organizing groups. He also served as a father confessor to many top racing drivers and was a close friend of Mario Andretti and Johnny Rutherford, two Indianapolis 500 winners.
        The Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500, and another beneficiary of P.P.G.'s largesse, never fully accepted CART's philosophy on how Indy-car racing should be conducted, however. That eventually led the speedway to create the Indy Racing League, a rival to CART, in a split that now threatens Indy-car racing's long-term success. Before retiring in 1992, Mr. Chapman tried to get both sides to agree on a unified governing structure. His peacemaking efforts ultimately failed, and he died without seeing the sport that he nurtured become whole again.
        Mr. Chapman's marriage to Betty Ellen Chapman ended in divorce. He is survived by two sons, James Jr. and Randall, and two daughters, Sheryl Chapman Kammer and Caprice Chapman Aerts, and eight grandchildren.
      