
        Dr. Hugh J. Davis, the Johns Hopkins gynecologist whose acclaimed invention of the Dalkon Shield as a safer and more effective birth control device proved disastrous to thousands of American women, died on Wednesday at his home on Gibson Island, Md. He was 69.
        His wife, Jytte, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
        When it was introduced with considerable fanfare by the A. H. Robins pharmaceutical company in 1971, the Dalkon Shield was hailed as a scientific marvel, a highly improved intrauterine device, or IUD, promising almost perfect birth control protection with virtually no adverse side effects.
        At a time when headlines suggesting that birth control pills could pose  serious long-term dangers had led many women to seek a safer alternative, the Dalkon Shield developed by Dr. Davis and his engineer partner, Irwin Lerner, seemed to be just what the doctor ordered.
        Indeed, it was. Within three and a half years the device had been prescribed for 2.2 million women, making it by far the most popular IUD and capturing 10 percent of the contraceptive market.
        Then the reports of infections, miscarriages and even deaths began coming in, and the once bright promise turned to dust. By the time the dust settled, Dr. Davis's invention had been deemed responsible for 18 deaths and more than 200,000 infections, miscarriages and other ailments.
        In addition, Robins, which stopped selling the devices in 1974 but did not order a recall of those previously sold, was eventually forced into bankruptcy by a wave of product liability suits and the discovery that the company had suppressed evidence that the device was neither as safe nor as effective as it had claimed in its nationwide ad campaign.
        After establishing a $2.5 billion fund to compensate women injured by the device, the company was sold in 1989 to American Home Products.
        A native of Puerto Rico, where his father worked as a government botanist, Dr. Davis was a precocious student who graduated from the Kent School in Connecticut and entered the University of Georgia at the age of 14. Interrupting his education, he worked as a reporter for The Atlanta Constitution, served in the Army in World War II and built houses in Florida before returning to Georgia for a degree in chemistry and biology and receiving his medical degree from Johns Hopkins in 1953.
        After his residency he spent three years at the National Cancer Center in Denmark, where his flair for invention blossomed. A pioneer in laparoscopy, he devised and patented more than 30 medical instruments used in abdominal surgery and developed a do-it-yourself kit for the detection of cervical cancer.
        Returning to the United States in 1962, he joined the Johns Hopkins faculty as a professor of gynecology and obstetrics and over the next few years became such a recognized expert on contraception that at the height of the scare over birth control pills he testified before a Senate subcommittee, warning that pills had created such a widespread hazard that it was medically unsound to prescribe them when safer alternatives were available.
        At the time of his testimony he had a professional interest in just such an alternative, the Dalkon Shield he and Mr. Lerner had developed. Later they sold it to Robins for $750,000 plus future royalties.
        Although there was initial suspicion that the crablike design of the five-pronged shield was somehow responsible for infecting and sometimes puncturing the uterus, it was eventually determined that the culprit was the nylon-sheathed tailstring used to remove the device or check that it was still in place. Because the string's bundle of tiny filaments was not sealed at the end and the sheathing tended to disintegrate, the tailstring was acting as a wick drawing vaginal bacteria up into the uterus.
        In the aftermath of the scandal, a Federal law was passed in 1976 requiring extensive testing and formal Food and Drug Administration approval before medical devices like IUD's can be put on the market. In the absence of such a law, Robins had introduced the Dalkon Shield on the basis of a yearlong test of 640 women conducted by Dr. Davis.
        Although he continued to stand by his design, the controversy brought an end to Dr. Davis's career and he retired in 1982.
        To some birth control experts, the most serious side effect of the Dalkon Shield has been the virtual demise of the IUD in the United States. At a time when more than 90 million women use IUD's around the world, fewer than 500,000 American women use them.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Davis is survived by a daughter, Rikke Davis, of McLean, Va.; a son, Bruce, of Gibson Island, and a sister, Elaine Golden, of Panama City, Fla.
      