
        Dr. Richard S. Young, a pioneer in the study of space biology who proved, with the help of the sex life of sea urchins, that life could go on in space, died on Oct. 6 at his home on Cape Canaveral, Fla. He was 69.
        The cause was prostate cancer, a member of the family said.
        Dr. Young was chief of life sciences exploration for the American space program, which sent men to the moon and unmanned spacecraft to Mars in the 1960's and 1970's, and he was vice president of Rockefeller University in New York in the 1980's.
        In developing research at the Army's Ballistic Missile Agency at Huntsville, Ala., in the late 1950's, he directed experiments in which both fertilized sea-urchin eggs and unfertilized eggs -- along with two monkeys, Able and Baker -- were placed in the nose cone of an intermediate-range ballistic missile and shot into space, 360 miles high, and recovered after a 1,700-mile journey.
        The fertilized eggs did fine, continuing to develop during the flight. But the others, which were fertilized during the voyage when an automatic control removed a barrier separating them from a batch of sea-urchin sperm, did not. They disintegrated, perhaps because of the vibrations encountered in flight, Dr. Young said at the time. The conditions for romance in the nose of an intercontinental ballistic missile, he and his colleagues conceded, were far from ideal.
        The trained monkeys completed their tasks, which were, first, simply to survive, but also to operate a telegraph key while flying over India after getting a signal from a flashing red light.
        From 1970 until 1975, Dr. Young was chief scientist for the landings of the unmanned Viking mission to Mars to search for life there and to explore its physical nature. After the Viking data were returned and analyzed, Dr. Young reported that they did ''not rule out the possibility of biology -- but they give us no proof.''
        Nearly two decades later, last August, scientists said a meteorite that had fallen from Mars contained evidence of primitive early life there, and interest was revived among planetary scientists and leaders at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the space biology work that Dr. Young helped begin.
        In 1979, he became vice president of Rockefeller University, helping the president with program management. In 1988, he became the chief science consultant to NASA's Life Science Division at the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral.
        Dr. Young was born in Kings Park, L.I. He earned his bachelor of science degree at Gettysburg College and received a doctorate in zoology at Florida State University. Before joining the space program, he was a research scientist for the Food and Drug Administration, studying the effects of anti-cancer agents.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Mayer Young, of Cape Canaveral; two daughters, Dee Young of Courtlandt Manor, N.Y., and Sandy Young  of Merritt Island, Fla.,; a son, Mark, of Rockland, N.Y.; his mother, Myrtle, of De Bary, Fla.; a sister, Janet McNiece, also of De Bary, and three grandchildren.
      