
        Hubert Newcombe Alyea, a professor emeritus of chemistry at Princeton University who invented a method of teaching science and regaled generations of students with his high-spirited ''tricks with Mother Nature,'' died last Saturday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 93.
        His expertise covered areas from chemical effects of radium to gas explosion kinetics, from chain reactions to catalysis and the mechanism of chemical inhibitors. But it was his eccentric, even zany way of imparting knowledge that packed in audiences.
        Walt Disney attended one of his lectures and decided to make a movie about a professor who invents a miracle substance. He invited Dr. Alyea to Hollywood to coach the actor Fred MacMurray, who then mimicked his mannerisms in the 1960 film ''The Absent-Minded Professor.''
        Dr. Alyea had a genius for bringing science to life in the classroom. With his ''armchair chemistry,'' he endowed chemical principles with the drama and verve of a sound-and-light show, which now and then burned his suits beyond repair. His hands flew above test tubes and Bunsen burners. Amid explosions and swishing clouds of carbon dioxide he explained the mysteries of chemistry with contagious enthusiasm.
        Dr. Alyea taught at Princeton for 42 years until his retirement in 1972. But his lectures reached people around the world by television, both in auditoriums and at home. In 1945 he inaugurated a demonstration lecture, ''Atomic Energy: Weapon for Peace,'' that he ultimately presented  some 2,800 times in many countries before audiences totaling an estimated 1.5 million people.
        A shorter version of his introduction to nuclear reaction became an Emmy-winning television program.
        To permit audiences to follow his experiments closely, he developed a teaching system called Tested Overhead Projection Series, or TOPS. The system uses simple overhead projection equipment, and Dr. Alyea gradually adapted it for the teaching of physics, biochemistry and general science. The system has been used in secondary and college education throughout this country and became an affordable teaching tool in developing countries.
        Dr. Alyea's textbooks, ''TOPS in Chemistry'' and ''Tested Demonstrations in Chemistry'' have been translated into many languages.
        Well after his formal retirement he continued his lecture on the nature of scientific discovery, ''Lucky Accidents, Great Discoveries and the Prepared Mind,'' a fast-paced set of demonstrations, human-interest stories, poems and ad-libs.
        Hubert Alyea was born in Clifton, N.J. He graduated from Princeton and earned his Ph.D. in chemistry there after spending a year at the Nobel Institute in Stockholm. He also worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Berlin and returned to Princeton as an instructor in 1930.
        Dr. Alyea, whose wife, Evelyn, died earlier, is survived by a son, Frederick N., of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      