
        Birger Lunde, an officer in the Norwegian merchant marine who had three vessels shot from under him by German submarines during World War II, died Sept. 24 in the Norwegian Christian Home in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. He was 82 and lived in Great Kills on Staten Island.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, John, of Washington, N.J.
        Captain Lunde was born in Fana, Norway, and served in the Norwegian merchant marine throughout the war. In recognition of his service, he was awarded the St. Olaf medal with oak leaves, a Norwegian honor for bravery, by King Haakon VII of Norway in London, where a Norwegian exile government had its headquarters during the Nazi occupation.
        After the war's outbreak, Norway tried to stay neutral, but Germany invaded in 1940 and soon occupied almost the whole country. Nonetheless, cargo vessels of the Norwegian merchant fleet aided the Allies throughout the war, and many Norwegian ships were sunk by the Germans.
        A memoir written by Captain Lunde and interviews with his son and with the captain's brother, Kaare Lunde of Fana gave this account of the sinkings the captain survived:
        In May 1941 he was a second mate and radio operator on the Taranger, a cargo vessel, 250 miles off Iceland, as he put it, ''travelling to America to get a 5-inch gun installed when a U-Boat surfaced at night and shelled us until the ship literally fell apart.''
        Mr. Lunde took charge of a crowded lifeboat, managed to evade the German submarine and cut a piece of shrapnel out of a wounded crew member's foot before the group was picked up by a British naval ship two days later.
        In February 1942, he was chief mate on the Blink off Cape Hatteras, N.C., when the ship was torpedoed. One lifeboat was launched with two dozen men, including Mr. Lunde, on board, but it capsized repeatedly in heavy seas and lost all its provisions.
        Occupants of the lifeboat had hallucinations, grew weak and slipped away into the sea. Sharks tried to pull survivors out of the boat. Mr. Lunde, having taken command, was one of the half dozen survivors who were rescued by a passing American ship three days after the sinking.
        He was second mate and radio operator on the Oregon Express -- another Norwegian cargo ship, despite its American name -- in a convoy in the Atlantic in 1943 when it was sunk by a torpedo. He found himself, as he recalled later, ''hurt and in the sea surrounded by wreckage.'' But he and other survivors were rescued by a Danish ship, and he was sent on to New York, where he was treated for broken ribs, a broken collarbone and a severely injured back.
        After the war, he took United States citizenship and was captain of American merchant vessels. But even in retirement, he wrote in 1993, ''I am still, unfortunately, haunted by nightmares that make me wake the whole house.''
        His wife, the former Mildred Johnson, died in 1991.
        In addition to his son, John B. of Washington, N.J. and his brother, Kaare, he is survived by two granddaughters.
      