
        Fairleigh S. Dickinson Jr., a businessman, philanthropist and former New Jersey State Senator who was instrumental in preserving the Hackensack Meadowlands, died on Saturday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 76.
        His family said he had become ill at home on Martha's Vineyard. He also had a home in Ridgewood, N.J.
        A prominent Bergen County Republican, Mr. Dickinson served in the State Senate from 1968 to 1971. He sponsored legislation to create an agency to control development of the Meadowlands, in which he had been interested for more than a decade.
        For many years, much of the land along the Hackensack River had been little more than a giant swamp, a place for waterfowl and garbage dumping. But the tract was also the largest stretch of undeveloped land in the New York metropolitan area.
        With the advent of modern construction techniques, the swamp took on tremendous potential value for commercial use. Mr. Dickinson and others thought that a powerful agency might be able to regulate commercial development while preserving other areas for residential use and parks and leaving some terrain for the birds and aquatic life that had been there in the first place.
        The legislation that Mr. Dickinson sponsored created the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, which oversees more than 30 square miles in Bergen and Hudson counties.
        In 1969, Mr. Dickinson's son, Fairleigh S. 3d, died of a drug overdose in his room at Columbia University, where he was a freshman. The death spurred his father to learn all he could about dangerous drugs. As a Senator, Mr. Dickinson helped Gov. William T. Cahill's administration in overhauling the state's drug laws.
        Mr. Dickinson's father, Fairleigh Stanton Dickinson Sr., was a founder of Becton Dickinson, now a huge manufacturer of medical products, and of Fairleigh Dickinson University. Mr. Dickinson followed his father in the business, becoming president in 1948 and chairman in 1972.
        Mr. Dickinson was born in Rutherford, N.J. He graduated from New York Military Academy and from Williams College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He was a lieutenant commander in the Coast Guard during World War II.
        Mr. Dickinson was named a trustee of Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1948 and became its chairman in 1968. He was chairman of the Coast Guard Academy Foundation and served on the board of several other colleges and schools.
        Mr. Dickinson was a founder of the New Jersey Region of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, and received its Brotherhood Award. He was a trustee of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and the New Jersey Historical Society and also served as a director of the Urban League in Bergen County.
        He was on the board of the Prudential Life Insurance Company and was chairman of the National Community Bank of Rutherford and Arcadia National Bank of Secaucus.
        He is survived by his wife, Betty; two daughters, Ann, of Ridgewood, and Tracy, of Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      