
        Peter W. Hoguet, a lawyer, economist and investment banker who figured in a cold war incident -- the defection of Oksana S. Kosenkina, a Soviet schoolteacher who jumped from a window of the Soviet Consulate in New York City in 1948 -- died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was apparently heart failure, his daughter, Denise Hoguet, said.
        Mr. Hoguet (pronounced ho-GAY) acted as a lawyer with an anti-Soviet organization, when, in August 1948, he submitted documents to Justice Samuel Dickstein of State Supreme Court contending that Mrs. Kosenkina, who had taught children of Soviet officials in the United States, was being held in the consulate, then at 7 East 61st Street, against her will. She had been ordered to return to the Soviet Union, but wanted to become a refugee from her homeland.
        Justice Dickstein ordered the Soviet Consul General in New York, Jacob M. Lomakin, to appear in court the net morning, Aug. 12, and to bring with him ''the body of Oksana Stepanovna Kosenkina by you detained and imprisoned, as it is said.''
        Mr. Hoguet served the order on Mr. Lomakin, but the Soviet Consul defied it, and Justice Dickstein put off further action to provide time for consultations about the matter.
        The author Fulton Oursler wrote in 1949 that on Aug. 12, Mrs. Kosenkina, who was being held in a third-floor room in the consulate, knew that at midnight that night, she was to be put on board a ship bound for the Soviet Union.
        As Aug. 12 went on, he wrote, she heard a radio broadcast about the legal activity on her behalf. ''Now she knew why crowds filled the street below,'' he reported. ''She was not abandoned. Somebody did care! All those people cared! She turned resolutely to the open window. She jumped.''
        Mrs. Kosenkina, then 52, survived the fall, was granted asylum in the United States, became a United States citizen in 1954 and died in 1960.
        Mr. Hoguet was born in Manhattan, attended Portsmouth Abbey School in Portsmouth, R.I., and graduated in 1937 from Harvard College and in 1947 from New York University's law school.
        He served in the Navy and the Office of Strategic Services in World War II and was a Washington-based Marshall Plan administrator in 1949 and 1950.
        He went on to be vice president and then president of the Econometric Institute, a New York-based economic forecasting organization, from 1956 to 1961. He was a co-author  of a textbook, ''Business and Economic Forecasting'' (1961).
        His work in investment banking included being associated with Lehman Brothers for a time later in the 1960's and serving as president of Hoguet Associates, a firm specializing in mergers and acquisitions, in later years until he retired in 1978.
        Long active in Republican politics, he was briefly a candidate for the Republican nomination for Congress from the 18th Congressional District in Manhattan in 1948 but withdrew from contention. He was also an East Side district leader in Manhattan and was the Republican candidate in 1968 for the State Assembly from the 64th District in Manhattan but was defeated.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, Mr. Hoguet is survived by his wife of 37 years, the former Sheila Zehntner; a son, Mark, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Eleanor de Give of Southampton, L.I., and Marie Khatami of Manhattan.
        Peter Hoguet, 82, Lawyer in Cold War Case, Dies
        Correction:  October 30, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on Monday about Peter W. Hoguet, a lawyer, economist and investment banker who was involved in the defection of a Soviet schoolteacher from the Soviet Consulate in Manhattan in 1948, misspelled the teacher's surname in some editions. She was Oksana S. Kosenkina, not Kasenkina.
      