
        Prof. Kenneth Muir, a British authority on Shakespeare and his world, died on Sept. 30 in Birkenhead, England, where he lived. He was 89.
        In Friday's issue of The Guardian, which reported his death, Prof. Inga-Stina Ewbank of Leeds University, also an expert on Shakespeare, wrote that Professor Muir was ''recognized worldwide as one of his generation's most eminent Shakespeare scholars.''
        He was a former president of the International Shakespeare Association and held the King Alfred chair of English literature at the University of Liverpool from 1951 until he retired from that post in 1974. Earlier he was a lecturer at Leeds University.
        Professor Muir was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than three dozen works. His editing of new editions of ''Macbeth'' and ''King Lear,'' which were published in the United States in 1951 and 1953 respectively, is credited with establishing his reputation.
        Reviewing the book ''Shakespeare Survey 21,'' which Professor Muir also edited, in The New York Times  in 1969, Thomas Lask wrote that the volume, one of an annual series, contained essays involving ''careful textual scholarship, closely reasoned interpretation and a knowledge of the critical literature'' and a section, covering recent critical essays and investigations into Shakespeare's life and times, that was ''invaluable for those who want to keep up with what is being done in the field.''
        Professor Muir's own writing ranged widely, and Shakespeare's imagery was a favorite subject. He was a co-author, with Sean O'Loughlin, of the book ''The Voyage to Illyria'' (1937), which has been called a pioneering study of that topic. Another British Shakespeare expert, Philip Edwards, has written that Professor Muir also ''made notable contributions on the sources of the plays.'' And his writing has been praised for a ''liberal humanism'' that suited it for a relatively broad readership.
        As a critic, Professor Muir could be severe. In a 1963 review of a volume of Shakespeare's sonnets with an introduction by its editor, the British scholar A. L. Rowse, Professor Muir wrote: ''A. L. Rowse would seem to be admirably qualified to edit Shakespeare's sonnets, though his cocksureness is apt to be disturbing. In the introduction, hypotheses are presented as facts.''
        Professor Muir was born in London and earned a bachelor's degree in 1929 from Oxford.
        His wife, Mary, died in 1975. He is survived by a son, David.
      