
        I. E. S. Edwards, a British expert on the treasures from the tomb of Tutankhamun, the ancient Egyptian king, died on Sept. 24 in London. He was 87 and lived in Deddington, near Oxford.
        As The Daily Telegraph put it on Saturday, in reporting Mr. Edwards's death, he was a foremost authority on the pyramids of Egypt and on the furnishings of Tutankhamun's tomb in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt, which were unearthed in 1922 by an expedition led by Howard Carter of Britain. Tutankhamun ruled in the 14th century B.C.
        Mr. Edwards, who was born in London, was the Keeper of Egyptian Antiquities in the British Museum, in London, from 1955 to 1974. In 1977, when an exhibition of some of the tomb's contents had begun traveling around the United States, the critic, editor and writer Doris Grumbach wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Edwards's 1976 book ''Tutankhamun: His Tomb and Its Treasures'' was ''magnificent, satisfying and instructive.''
        In Mr. Edwards's view, the discovery of the treasures of ''King Tut'' -- as he became known to headline-writers -- stemmed from a combination of careful work and good luck.  He wrote of Mr. Carter's success in an article in 1977: ''It was the outcome of a meticulous technique. For five seasons he had cleared the sand and rubble down in the rock bed of the Valley of the Kings without making a significant discovery, but undreamed of success came at last, just when his patron, Lord Carnarvon, had given up hope.''
        Mr. Edwards's own eminence as an authority on Tutankhamun also stemmed from hard, skillful work and good fortune.
        After studying at Cambridge University, he joined the staff of the British Museum's department of Egyptian and Assyrian antiquities in 1934 and went on to become a scholar of ancient Egyptian civilization.
        In World War II he worked for Britain's Foreign Office in Cairo and also studied Egypt's antiquities and pyramids. His book ''The Pyramids of Egypt'' appeared after the war.
        He became known to a wider public when he was a prime mover behind the Tutankhamun exhibition of 1972 at the British Museum. His expertise became of interest to an even broader public as the 1970's went on.
        His other writings on Tutankhamun include the books ''Treasures of Tutankhamun'' (1972) and ''Tutankhamun's Jewelry'' (1976).
        Mr. Edwards, whose full name was Iorwerth Eiddon Stephen Edwards, is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, and a daughter.
      