
        Ewen C. Dingwall, the municipal impresario credited with transforming the 1962 Seattle World's Fair from a civic pipe dream into a glittering reality that helped establish the city's reputation as a cultural oasis, died on Friday at a Seattle hospital. He was 83.
        A daughter, Emily Easton, said the cause was injuries suffered in a fall near the nursing home where her father had lived in recent years.
        In 1955 when a group of local businessmen dreamed up the audacious idea of holding a world's fair in Seattle, you could hear the chuckles all the way to New York. After all, Robert Moses, himself, was already planning the 1963-64 New York World's Fair, and while the nation's metropolis was a household name around the world, Seattle was, well, come to think of it, what was Seattle, anyway? and just where was it, again?
        Never mind that fair organizers had to tutor prospective international exhibitors on how to pronounce the city's name and to point out repeatedly that, no, the Washington State city was not a suburb of the nation's capital.
        The Seattle business leaders may have been overreaching, but they knew they had a secret weapon, Mr. Dingwall.
        A Seattle native who majored in journalism and political science at the University of Washington, Mr. Dingwall had made a name for himself in the six years he spent as a mayoral assistant, rising from secretary to a position roughly equivalent to deputy mayor.
        Combining the the savvy of a clubhouse pol with sure administrative skills and a creative promotional flair, as the fair's vice president and general manager, he spent five years drumming up critical support in Washington, D.C., recruiting national and international exhibitors, and helping to plan and carry out virtually every detail of the civic dream.
        And during the fair's six-month run his promotions reached new heights, as celebrity visitors from Billy Graham to Elvis Presley discovered when they looked out from the observation deck of the 600-foot Space Needle and saw the Goodyear blimp flashing personal greetings Mr. Dingwall had devised.
        But for all the futuristic lure of the scientific marvels of the fair, officially known as the Century 21 Exposition, Mr. Dingwall also knew the appeal of more traditional attractions, like the fair's Las Vegas-style showgirl review. Or, as he put it, ''Electronic wizardry is no substitute for a beautiful woman.''
        Whatever the attraction, the fair drew just under 10 million visitors during its six months run, actually turned a modest financial profit and left the city with a municipal jewel that still attracts visitors to the 74-acre site now known as the Seattle Center.
        Mr. Dingwall's role was so widely recognized that he went on to a career as a consultant to other fairs and civic celebrations, but the city that had put him in charge of the world's fair would not let him go.
        When one of the fair's legacies, the Pacific Science Center, needed a guiding hand he was called out of retirement to serve as interim director, and later, when the Seattle Center itself seemed to lose its way he was called out of retirement once again to put it back on track.
        After five years as the center's director, he retired in 1988.
        In addition to Mrs. Easton, Mr. Dingwall is survived by another daughter, Donnie Jewell, and four grandchildren.
      