
        Milton Goodman, a retired advertising executive whose ''It leaves you breathless'' campaign for Smirnoff vodka in the 1950's helped transform America's taste in alcoholic beverages, died at his home in Manhattan on Oct. 5. He was 102.
        In the early 1950's, when Mr. Goodman was the president of the Lawrence C. Gumbinner Agency, the firm landed an account to do advertising for Smirnoff vodka, a product of the Heublein Company.
        At the time, vodka consumption in the United States was minuscule; vodka was a wayward, somewhat exotic cousin to gin, Scotch and bourbon whisky.
        But through a series of small ads in newspapers and magazines over the following six years, each showing a single drink and emphasizing vodka's ability to be mixed, as well as its colorless, odorless and tasteless properties, sales soared, to $250 million by 1956.
        The idea of introducing a different drink in each ad was really a ''Trojan horse,'' Mr. Goodman told The New York Times in 1954. ''They introduced vodka to the American people.''
        Heublein, which is based in Farmington, Conn., and is now a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan P.L.C., continued to use ''It leaves you breathless'' as a tag line in its advertisements until the late 1970's.
        Today, vodka is the leading distilled spirit sold in the United States, and Smirnoff is not only the country's biggest-selling vodka, but also the second most popular of all distilled spirits, behind Bacardi rum.
        Mr. Goodman, who was born in New York City in 1894, quit school at the age of 18 and went to work for two trade papers, Iron Age and Hardware Age.
        He entered the advertising business as a copywriter after serving in the Army in World War I.
        In 1925, Mr. Goodman joined Lawrence Gumbinner, another advertising man, when Mr. Gumbinner formed his own agency. The two men worked together until Mr. Gumbinner retired about 20 years ago.
        Mr. Goodman's wife, the former Marian Filer, died in 1976.
        Survivors include two daughters, Mrs. Alan Emory of Falls Church, Va., and Mrs. Leon Rich Jr. of Memphis, Tenn., five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      