
        Dr. Robert Maynard Giller, a New York physician and medical nutritionist whose dietary directives made him a popular author among the figure-conscious and highly stressed in Hollywood and elsewhere, died in a car accident on the Garden State Parkway in New Jersey on Saturday. He was 54 and lived on the Upper East Side and in East Hampton, L.I.
        He died instantly when the vehicle in which he was passenger, driven by an employee of his wife's business, spun out of control in Manahawkin, N.J., at the height of a gale-force rainstorm, said Monty Farber, a friend. He said the driver, the only other occupant, was unhurt.
        Dr. Giller counseled entertainers and professional athletes, among others. He based his approach on the premise that stress causes biochemical changes in the body and causes fatigue, headaches, irritability and insomnia, among other problems.
        He devised programs deploying combinations of vitamins and minerals to alter the body's chemical reactions. He treated stress-related behavior patterns as he would treat addictions, making patients gradually adjust their stress-related responses.
        Three books laid out his views on the benefits of natural therapies. ''Medical Makeover'' (Beech Tree/ Morrow, 1986), a best seller for nine weeks, was called a ''no-will-power program for lifetime health.'' ''Maximum Metabolism: The Diet Breakthrough for Permanent Weight Loss'' (Berkeley, 1989) listed red meat, butter, fried food, luncheon meats, peanut butter and shortening as ''items you must eliminate from your diet.''
        Another successful book, written with Kathy Matthews, was ''Natural Prescriptions: Dr. Giller's Natural Treatments and Vitamin Therapies for More Than 100 Common Ailments'' (Ballantine, 1995). It amplified his book ''Natural Prescriptions,'' published by Crown the year before.
        Robert Giller was born in Chicago, received his M.D. from the University of Illinois and did postgraduate studies at Columbia University and at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. In the Army Medical Corps, he specialized in jungle diseases. He studied acupuncture in China and was licensed to practice it in the United States.
        He was active in the American College of Preventive Medicine and the International Academy of Preventive Medicine.
        In recent years, he pursued an avocation in interior and garden design, collected art and antiques and saw his homes in Manhattan and the Hamptons featured in design magazines. At his death, he was writing several books.
        Dr. Giller is survived by his wife, Nancy Lee, a television producer, and his mother, Lillian Kolbe, and brother, Michael, both of Chicago.
      