
        Ted Bessell, the actor who starred with Marlo Thomas in the television comedy series ''That Girl'' and was a director of the ''Tracey Ullman Show,'' died on Sunday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 57.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family doctor said.
        Mr. Bessell's acting career spanned three decades, with appearances in at least 30 television productions including ''Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.,'' ''Breaking Up is Hard to Do'' and ''Don't Drink the Water.'' Perhaps his best-known role was as Donald Hollinger, the steady but suffering boyfriend of Ms. Thomas's character in ''That Girl,'' from 1966 to 1971.
        ''To this day when I'm walking in the street, people stop and ask me,  'How is Donald?' '' Ms. Thomas said  today.
        Ms. Thomas said Mr. Bessell was discussing a feature film remake of the series in which the two main characters, now 25 years older, would meet again and fall in love.  ''That Girl,'' set in New York City, was one of the first on television to focus on the life of a single woman.
        Mr. Bessell played another boyfriend role in 1975, as Joe Warner, love interest of Mary on ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show.''
        More recently he worked almost exclusively behind the camera, most notably with the ''Tracey Ullman Show,'' (1987-90) which won an Emmy Award for best comedy variety series while he was a director.
        His current project was directing a feature-film remake of the 1960's television series ''Bewitched'' with Penny Marshall's production company, Parkway Productions.
        Mr. Bessell was born in 1939 in New York City and attended Georgetown University and the University of Colorado. After returning to New York, he worked at the Neighborhood Playhouse and later appeared in the Broadway production of ''Same Time Next Year.''
        He is survived by his wife, Linnell,  and two daughters, Sarah and Mary, all of Los Angeles; his mother, Jo, and a brother, Frank.
      