
        Judge J. Daniel Mahoney of the Federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, a founder of the New York State Conservative Party, died on Wednesday at Griffin Hospital in Derby, Conn. Judge Mahoney, who lived in Huntington, Conn., was 65.
        His family said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage.
        In a busy life, Mr. Mahoney practiced law with distinguished New York City law firms, represented well-known clients like the writer William F. Buckley Jr. and the ice skater Dorothy Hamill and took part in significant decisions after he was sworn in as a judge in 1986. But he achieved his greatest prominence as the chairman of the Conservative Party.
        The story of how Mr. Mahoney anticipated and helped harness the conservative tide that was rising in the nation and in the state began over lunch in 1962, when he and a brother-in-law, Kieran O'Doherty, decided to found a new party because they thought that the Republican Party under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller was too liberal.
        A decade later, after steady growth, from 2.4 percent of the gubernatorial vote in 1962 and 8.5 percent in 1966 and 17.3 percent in the senatorial race of 1968, the Conservative party candidate, James L. Buckley, was elected United States Senator from New York, with two million votes cast on the Conservative line.
        Working with a nucleus of young Republican lawyers employed by Wall Street law firms, Mr. O'Doherty provided the party's drive and vigor, Mr. Mahoney its polish and diplomacy.
        ''The Conservative Party stands for what the Republican Party stands for naturally, at its better moments,'' Mr. Mahoney said in 1970. ''We're struggling toward an honest two-party system between liberals and conservatives on a national level.''
        Philosophically, the party espoused a traditional conservative view of government: the less the better, except in national defense. Its first manifesto called for firm anti-Communism and weak Federal and state government and emphasized ''the private energies of individuals and nongovernmental associations.''
        It advocated lower taxes, less governmental spending and the control of education by parents and local communities.
        Later it took stands against Medicaid, civilian police review boards, fluoridation of water, increased state aid for education, school busing to achieve racial balance, rent control and abortion.
        On the national scene, the party backed the Presidential campaigns of Barry Goldwater, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan. In New York City, Mr. Mahoney led William F. Buckley's unsuccessful campaign for mayor in 1965 as well as James F. Buckley's successful senatorial run in 1970.
        As its power grew, the Conservative Party, like the Liberal Party before it, achieved a balance of power in some elections. In 1980, Alfonse M. D'Amato's uphill fight for the Senate received its initial impetus from the Conservatives, and in 1994, the party's 328,000 votes played a pivotal role in the election of Gov. George E. Pataki. He defeated the incumbent, Mario M. Cuomo, by less than 200,000.
        But when President Reagan appointed Mr. Mahoney to the Second Circuit, which includes New York, Connecticut and Vermont, he said he would not bring any ideological baggage with him.
        ''I've been a pretty active lawyer, as well as politician,'' he said. ''It's not a question of ideology. It's understanding that a judge is supposed to be impartial and should not use the judiciary as a platform for proselytizing any personal views.''
        On the bench, he wrote opinions in cases like United States v. Salerno, which resulted in 100-year prison terms for leaders of organized crime families in New York, and United States v. Torres and United States v. Rivera, which resulted in life prison terms for leaders of major New York heroin rings. As a member of the court, he took part in cases involving housing desegregation in Yonkers and computer copyright law.
        He was also the author of ''Actions Speak Louder Than Words, the Story of the New York Conservative Party,'' published in 1968 by Arlington House.
        J. (for John) Daniel Mahoney, a son of Daniel W. Mahoney, a patent lawyer, and the former Louisa D. Dunbar, was born in Orange, N.J. He graduated from St. Bonaventure University in 1952 and from the Columbia University School of Law in 1955.
        After service in the Coast Guard as a lieutenant, junior grade, he worked successively at Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett; Wormser, Kiely, Alessandroni, Mahoney & McCann, and Windels, Marx, Davies & Ives.
        Judge Mahoney is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Kathleen O'Doherty, and three sons and three daughters: J. Daniel Mahoney Jr. of Scottsdale, Ariz.; Kieran V. Mahoney of Manhattan; Francis K. Mahoney of Darien, Conn.; Mary Shipman of Queens; Eileen Curley of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Elizabeth Mahoney of Manhattan, and his brother, William D. Mahoney of Larchmont, N.Y.
      