
        Peter J. Brennan, a Depression-era house painter who rose through the construction trades, became one of New York's most prominent labor leaders for three decades and was Secretary of Labor from 1973 to 1975 in the Nixon and Ford administrations, died on Wednesday at the home of a daughter in Massapequa, L.I. He was 78.
        Mr. Brennan died of lymphatic cancer, according to his daughter Joan Tetro, with whom he had lived since he became ill last July.
        Ruddy-faced and white-haired, he was a blunt, colorful man whose Hell's Kitchen accent echoed his origins on the West Side of Manhattan. Mr. Brennan was a submariner in the Pacific in World War II. After the war, he fought his way to the top of the painters' union and then the unionized building trades in New York.
        Except for his two years as Labor Secretary, Mr. Brennan was president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, an umbrella organization of unions with 250,000 members at its peak, from 1957 to 1992, when he retired.
        He was also president of the council's 386,000-member New York State counterpart and was vice president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the New York City Central Labor Council. He  enjoyed wide popularity in all the craft unions and was a major voice in city and state political and legislative circles.
        In 1970, with the nation in turmoil over the Vietnam War, Mr. Brennan leaped to national prominence by organizing a rally of thousands of construction workers near City Hall to show support for President Richard M. Nixon's policies and American soldiers fighting in Southeast Asia. A counterdemonstration by antiwar protesters led to a clash with the workers, and many of the antiwar protesters were beaten.
        Mr. Brennan and other New York labor leaders who supported Mr. Nixon were invited to the White House. Mr. Brennan said he was gravely concerned about any concessions or show of weaknesses by the United States toward the Communists in North Vietnam.
        In the months that followed, friendship between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Brennan flourished. In the 1972 election, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. proclaimed its neutrality, but Mr. Brennan, a longtime Democrat who had supported Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, organized labor leaders and unions in support of Mr. Nixon, who was re-elected.
        Yesterday, Representative Peter T. King, Republican of Seaford, L.I., called Mr. Brennan a ''man of courage'' for ''standing up to the antiwar protesters who tried to take over our streets.''
        He added: ''More than any other individual, he was responsible for bringing the blue-collar labor Democrats into the coalition that elected Presidents Nixon and Reagan. The concept of 'Reagan Democrats' would not have existed if not for Peter Brennan.''
        A few weeks after his re-election, Mr. Nixon nominated Mr. Brennan as Secretary of Labor, and after Senate confirmation he assumed office on Feb. 2, 1973. Organized labor was delighted, for Mr. Brennan had often spoken out for raising the minimum wage and expanding its coverage, increasing unemployment benefits, creating more jobs and training and enhancing workplace safety.
        But when Mr. Brennan presented the Administration's proposal for minimum wages that would rise in small increments over four years and would not be extended to state and local employees and domestic workers, George Meany, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and other labor leaders were outraged. A defensive Mr. Brennan called it a compromise that might have been worse, given the lengthening shadows of inflation, recession and unemployment.
        As the current Labor Secretary, Robert B. Reich noted yesterday, new laws were adopted during Mr. Brennan's tenure to protect the pensions of millions of workers, and the employment rights of disabled people were greatly expanded. He was also credited with strict enforcement of occupational safety and health laws and improving benefits for workers displaced by import competition.
        But Mr. Meany virtually ignored Mr. Brennan for the rest of his tenure. After Mr. Nixon resigned in the Watergate scandals and Gerald R. Ford became President, Mr. Ford decided to replace several of Mr. Nixon's Cabinet appointees early in 1975. He offered Mr. Brennan the post of ambassador to Ireland. Mr. Brennan declined the offer.
        He returned to New York and resumed the presidency of the construction trades council, a post he held until 1992. Over the years, he was credited with helping to raise wages and to expand job and training opportunities in the construction trades.
        But he was also criticized by some civil rights advocates, who accused the building trades of discriminating against members of minority groups  and said Mr. Brennan had not moved swiftly enough to open training and apprenticeship jobs to black and Hispanic workers. Mr. Brennan insisted that he had moved as fast as possible in trades that were traditionally white and resistant to change.
        Peter Joseph Brennan was born in New York on May 24, 1918, one of seven children of a unionized ironworker, who died in an influenza epidemic in 1921, leaving his widow to raise the family. Peter Brennan graduated from Commerce High School and went to work as an apprentice painter, becoming a journeyman with a coveted membership in Local 1456 of the Painters Union.
        During World War II, he was in the Navy as a chief petty officer aboard a submarine in the Pacific, operating mostly out of Guam. After the war, he returned to the paint pots, but became increasingly involved in his union's activities. In 1947, he was elected business manager of the local.
        Regarded as a tough negotiator and a rising young star in the construction trades, he became a protege of Howard McSpedon, president of the city Building and Construction Trades Council. In 1951, he was appointed as director of the council's maintenance division.
        In 1957, when Mr. McSpedon resigned, Mr. Brennan was elected president of the building trades groups. For several months each year thereafter, he was in Albany, lobbying for pending legislative measures favored by the council.
        Colleagues said he was respected by legislators for his directness and grasp of complex laws and political nuances. They said he often worked  12-hour days, meeting with building company managers to solve workplace problems, mediating quarrels among council affiliates, addressing public forums and maintaining relations with the council's allies in labor and politics.
        Mr. Brennan also held a wide range of appointed positions, including memberships on New York State Urban Development Corporation, the state's Job Development Authority and its Workmen's Compensation Advisory Committee. He was also an official of the Police Athletic League and the United Fund of Greater New York, and was active in the Youth Council and the Boy Scouts.
        His wife, the former Josephine Brickel, died in 1987. In addition to Mrs. Tetro, he is survived by a son, Peter Jr., of Massapequa; a daughter, Peggy Tritto of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, John of Westbury, L.I.; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      