
        Robert F. Williams, a civil rights leader turned black revolutionary who lived in Cuba, China and North Vietnam in the 1960's during an eight-year flight from kidnapping charges, died on Tuesday in Grand Rapids, Mich. He was 71 and lived in Baldwin.
        Mr. Williams suffered from Hodgkin's disease, said his son John.
        Mr. Williams was a decade or so ahead of the Black Panthers and other blacks who rejected the N.A.A.C.P.'s doctrine of nonviolence. In 1959, Mr. Williams called publicly for meeting ''violence with violence'' in the civil rights struggle. For that, he was ejected from the presidency of the Union County, N.C., chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People -- the very chapter he had founded in Monroe, his hometown.
        Two years later, he was accused of kidnapping a white couple and holding them in his Monroe home for two hours during an outbreak of racial violence. The circumstances were murky -- Mr. Williams said he was protecting the man and woman -- but the case prompted Mr. Williams to flee to Cuba.
        In Cuba, he broadcast appeals on ''Radio Free Dixie,'' a half-hour program, for black Americans to sound a battle cry of ''Freedom or Death.''
        ''Our people must stop allowing themselves to be beaten like common dogs in the streets,'' he said on one broadcast. ''We will never receive protection until we return violence for violence.''
        Mr. Williams was occasionally seen with President Fidel Castro. But Mr. Castro and Mr. Williams had a falling out, in part over his unsuccessful efforts to open an information office in Havana, where he lived with his wife and sons.
        Mr. Williams went to China, where he was courted by Mao Zedong. Mr. Williams was provided with a chauffeured car, two cooks and two maids. ''I had justice in China,'' he said years later, ''but it made my feel guilty about my own people.''
        That guilt and what he called his duty to black Americans made him decide to return to the United States,  in 1969. He settled in Michigan to wait out a legal battle over whether he should be extradited to North Carolina to stand trial for the old kidnapping charges. To earn money, he became a lecturer on civil rights issues at schools and churches.
        By the time he was ordered extradited to North Carolina, North Carolina prosecutors said the principal witness was too ill to testify, and charges against Mr. Williams were dropped in January 1976.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. Williams was active in the Peoples' Association for Human Rights in Baldwin. He lectured, visited schools and worked on his autobiography, according to his son John, who said his father was pessimistic about American society to the end and thought that the gains of the civil rights movement were being eroded.
        Mr. Williams was a ''revolutionary black nationalist'' but was never a Communist, even though he sympathized with some ofCommunism's goals, said his son John, of Detroit.
        His survivors include his wife, Mabel; another son, Franklin, also of Detroit; two brothers, Edward and John, both of Detroit, and two grandsons. Another son, Robert Jr., died of leukemia in 1991.
      