
        Harold E. Hughes, a truck driver who went on to overcome alcoholism and become Governor of Iowa and a Senator, only to quit politics in the mid-1970's and work with alcoholics and religious groups, died yesterday at his home in Glendale, Ariz. He was 74 and moved to Arizona a decade ago.
        Mr. Hughes, the last Democrat to be elected Iowa's Governor, died in his sleep and had not been ill, said Peter Wilmert, a spokesman for the Iowa Democratic Party, The Associated Press reported.
        Information about the cause of death was not available. The Des Moines Register reported last month that Mr. Hughes was retired and suffering from emphysema and other disabilities.
        Mr. Hughes, who was Governor from 1963 to 1969 and Senator from 1969 to 1974, had a profound impact on Iowa politics. Joseph Frazier Wall, a professor of history at Grinnell University, wrote in his 1978 book ''Iowa: A Bicentennial History'' that as Governor, Mr. Hughes ''gave the state its most exciting and progressive administration'' since the early 1900's. He also modernized the state Democratic Party, greatly enhancing its power.
        Mr. Hughes became a truck driver after serving in World War II. He rose to be a trucking executive, went into politics because he was displeased with Government controls on trucking and was elected to Iowa's Commerce Commission in the late 1950's.
        After trying unsuccessfully to win the Democratic nomination for Governor in 1960, he won it in 1962. Despite his battles against alcoholism, he made legalizing liquor by the drink a main campaign issue and went on to defeat the Republican incumbent, Norman Erbe. He was re-elected twice.
        In his political prime, he was an imposing figure -- six feet, two inches tall and weighing 220 pounds -- and a powerful public speaker. James Flansburg, a columnist for The Register, wrote last month that after Mr. Hughes stopped drinking, he became ''a personal dry but a political wet'' and ''the most telling and moving orator I've ever heard.''
        When Mr. Hughes ran for Governor in 1962, he declared, as Mr. Flansburg recalled, that ''if the Iowa Legislature didn't legalize liquor by the drink he'd make the bootleggers and key clubs so dry that you'd have to prime a man to make him spit.''
        While he was a Senator, in 1972, his supporters began an effort to promote him for the Democratic Presidential nomination, but the movement flagged and he took himself out of contention. He then served as manager of Senator Edmund S. Muskie's unsuccessful campaign for the nomination.
        As a Senator, he concerned himself largely with legislation concerning drug and alcohol abuse, including the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation Act of 1970.
        Late in 1973 Mr. Hughes, who was a Methodist, announced he was retiring from politics, when his Senate term ended, in order to become a lay worker for two religious foundations based in Washington. He also went on to establish a religious retreat in Maryland.
        In 1981, he went back to Iowa. He became an executive with Iowa Realty in Des Moines and also opened the Harold Hughes Center, for the treatment of alcoholism, in a Des Moines suburb. The center is now known as Gateway and is based at Des Moines General Hospital.
        Harold Everett Hughes was born near Ida Grove, Iowa, was an all-state football player as a high school student there, and went on to attend the University of Iowa in 1940 and 1941. In World War II he was an infantry rifleman in North Africa and Europe.
        His 1941 marriage to Eva Mae Mercer ended in divorce in 1987, and that same year he married a former secretary, Julie Holm.
        Mr. Hughes's survivors include two daughters from his first marriage.
      