
        Hannah Green, an acclaimed author who wrote one slender novel of such delicately distilled perfection that she could hardly bring herself to compose another, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan, six months after the reissue of her classic work, ''The Dead of the House,'' had been received with almost as much critical enthusiasm as its original publication a generation ago. She was 69 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Her husband, the painter John Wesley, said the cause was lung cancer.
        ''The Dead of the House'' was, by format, just another example of a well-worn genre, a coming-of-age novel, in this case a fictionalized account of Ms. Green's childhood in an Ohio village and on the summertime shores of Lake Michigan.
        But in her hands the familiar pangs of childhood, the adolescent passage from virginity to passion and the sobering loss of a first love were so exquisitely wrought that critics were instantly smitten.
        Indeed, when ''The Dead of the House'' was published by Doubleday in 1972, the author Richard Ellman said reading it was like falling in love.
        ''I was, for as long as it took,'' he wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''able to surrender my own callowness and smugness to the ecstasy that is fiction, is art.''
        Other critics had similar praise, which was echoed when Books & Company/Turtle Point Press reissued the book this year. If such enthusiasm seems extreme for what was, after all, a first novel, there was ample evidence that this was a very special first novel. Among other things, the budding first novelist was 46 years old and had been working on the book for the better part of two decades.
        She was also a highly schooled professional who had studied with Vladmir Nabokov at Wellesley and with Wallace Stegner while obtaining a master's degree at Stanford. She taught at Stanford for a while before coming to New York and beginning a part-time career as a teacher of creative writing, first at Columbia and later at New York University.
        Ms. Green, a native of Glendale, Ohio, was also a precocious child who early on encountered the frustrations of writing that would bedevil her the rest of her life. When she was 4, her husband said, she dreamed up a story about a mischievous pig, but in trying to compose it on her slate could not even get through the title. Her childhood scrawl was so large that she ran out of space after ''The Misch.''
        In later years Ms. Green's problem was not her handwriting (she composed on a manual typewriter) but her almost obsessive pursuit of a perfection that always seemed just one rewrite away.
        The real wonder of ''The Dead of the House,'' her husband suggested, was not that it took so long, but that it was finished at all. ''She never wanted to let go,'' he said.
        A tall, dark-haired woman who dressed conventionally and had an open, unassuming smile, away from the typewriter she seemed anything but an artist. Still, she had her transcendent moments, like the time she and her future husband met. A boyfriend had taken her to a party at Mr. Wesley's studio, the painter recalled,  and while the other guests downed canapes and quaffed beer with gusto, she approached him and asked for an orange.
        By some coincidence, he said, he did have an orange, and it was immediate love.
        The couple were married in 1971, and a few years later, while traveling in France, Ms. Green had another transcendent moment when at a church in Conques, in south-central France, she encountered the bones of Saint Foy, one of the last martyrs to Roman rule.
        ''It blew the top of her head off,'' Mr. Wesley said, noting that for the last 25 years his wife had been writing -- and rewriting -- a book about the martyred 12-year-old girl who was betrayed by her father, refused to renounce her faith and put to death, inspiring a cult that continues in France.
        Ms. Green's book, ''Golden Spark, Little Saint: My Book of the Hours of Saint Foy,'' which combines fiction with factual accounts of the Conques region and its people, is to be published by Random House next year.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Mary Lonsdale Hickler of Warwick, Mass.
      