
        Benjamin A. Trustman, a Boston lawyer and Florida land developer who shared his success to benefit the arts and education, died Oct. 9 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami. He was 92 and had lived in Miami Shores, Fla., since moving from Brookline, Mass., in the 1970's.
        Mr. Trustman, a past director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, put his name on the Trustman Lecture Hall at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He also established Trustman traveling fellowships for Harvard University and the Trustman Scholarship Fund at Harvard Law School, and he donated the board room at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston.
        Mr. Trustman was a patron of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and a life overseer of its Prints and Drawing Gallery. He gave the Trustman Art Gallery and traveling fellowships to Simmons College in Boston.
        In 1948, Mr. Trustman and his wife  discovered the lithographs of Honore Daumier, and they assembled some 8,000 of his prints in the following decade. They donated most of that collection to Brandeis University, Simmons and the Fine Arts Museum.
        Mr. Trustman was a past president of Hebrew Teachers College in Boston and of the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Greater Boston. He was a founding member of the Massachusetts Council for the Arts and Humanities, and a director of the Lincoln and Therese Filene Foundation as well as the Eye Research Institute and Retina Foundation. Mr. Trustman was blind in one eye. Benjamin Arthur Trustman was born in Minsk, capital of what is now Belarus, and was brought to this country as a toddler. He graduated from the Boston Latin School and from Harvard College, summa cum laude in 1922. After receiving his degree from Harvard Law School in 1925, Mr. Troutman practiced with Nutter, McClennen & Fish until his retirement in 1977. He also served as a director of Wm. Filene's Sons and Shawmut Bank of Boston.
        Mr. Trustman also promoted jai alai, the fast-moving ball game he helped import from South America. He was a founding director of World Jai Alai.
        He started his final and financially most successful career in his 70's, when he bought vacant land in Florida. His investment brought a good deal more in 10 years than he had earned in five decades as a lawyer, his family said.
        Mr. Trustman's wife of 65 years, Julia Myerson Trustman, died in 1992. He is survived by a son, Alan R., of Miami; a daughter, Patty T. Gelfman of Greenwich, Conn.; five grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      