
        Haydn Proctor, a longtime New Jersey official who operated at the highest levels of all three branches of state government, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Lakewood, N.J. He was 93, and before capping his public career with 16 years on the State Supreme Court had been president of the State Senate and Acting Governor.
        Mr. Proctor was born in Ocean Grove; he graduated from Lafayette College and received his law degree from Yale University. A lifelong Republican, he practiced in Monmouth County before serving as a district court judge in Asbury Park, then winning election to the State Legislature in the mid-1930's.
        Recalled by friends and former proteges yesterday as a man whose commitment to justice was exceeded only by his sunny disposition and  subtle sense of humor, Mr. Proctor once said his favorite painter was Leonardo Marina -- the name of a Monmouth County boatyard.
        Mr. Proctor demonstrated his sense of fair play early on. As an assemblyman in 1937, he introduced legislation that forced the state to make good on a $25,000 reward it had offered, but never paid, for information leading to a conviction in the Lindbergh kidnapping case.
        Elected to the State Senate, Mr. Proctor moved quickly to positions of leadership, serving as chairman of the Joint Legislative Appropriations Committee and as majority leader. In 1946, he was elected president of the Senate -- a post that required he serve as Acting Governor in the Governor's absence.
        In an era before governors made sure nothing important was on the agenda before leaving the state, Mr. Proctor served several eventful periods as Acting Governor. While Gov. Walter E. Edge was vacationing in Canada, for example, Mr. Proctor presided over pardon hearings, signed a controversial rent-freeze order and declared a conservation emergency.
        In December 1946, while the well-traveled Governor was at his Georgia plantation, Mr. Proctor succumbed to the gubernatorial travel bug and spent several days in New York, leaving the state in the hands of a Speaker of the Assembly for the first time since the Woodrow Wilson administration in 1913.
        Perhaps Mr. Proctor's most telling act as Acting Governor was paying a $1 parking ticket without ceremony or complaint, a gesture that seemed quaint in a state where corruption was rampant.
        After serving as a delegate to the state's momentous 1947 Constitutional Convention, Mr. Proctor returned to the judiciary and was quickly appointed to the Superior Court, becoming the chief judge in Hudson County at a time when nobody who knew anybody paid parking tickets or virtually anything else except kickbacks.
        The extent of the corruption in Hudson County became apparent in the early 1950's when Judge Proctor, acting on citizens' complaints, ordered Samuel A. Larner to conduct what turned out to be a 32-month,  high-profile investigation. It found, among other things, that the notorious Jersey City Mayor and political boss, Frank Hague, had created a utopian health care plan in which loyal voters were not required to pay hospital bills. The scheme was so popular, Mr. Larner found, that it had been continued by Mayor Hague's successors, including the reformer who ousted his machine in 1949. For all of Judge Proctor's efforts, the investigation produced virtually no indictments.
        After he was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1957, Mr. Proctor more than held his own on what is remembered as a brilliant and trailblazing court under Chief Justice Joseph Weintraub.
        Although the Chief Justice tended to overshadow his associate justices, Mr. Proctor wrote two especially noteworthy opinions. One held that a physician who knows that a pregnant patient is carrying a child with birth defects must advise the mother of her right to an abortion. The other held that a consumer who suffers only emotional distress from a defective product is entitled to damages even if there is no physical injury.
        Mr. Proctor left the bench when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1973, but continued to be active in the law. He was a member of the Supreme Court's Committee on Opinions until he was 87.
        During his years on the bench and afterward, Mr. Procter was so accessible to other lawyers seeking advice that when the Monmouth County Bar formed a group patterned on the English inns of court, where younger lawyers learn at the feet of their older and more experienced colleagues, it was named the Haydn Proctor American Inn of Court.
        Mr. Proctor, whose wife, Dorothy, died in 1991, is survived by two daughters, Ann McKee of Monmouth Beach, N.J., and Pamela Makin of Montclair, N.J., and by four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      