
        John Hillaby, a naturalist and long-distance walker whose lively books on backpacking through Africa, Britain and Europe earned him an international following, died on Friday in York, England. He was 79.
        The cause was pneumonia, officials at York District Hospital said. He had lost the ability to walk after developing osteoarthritis of the spine three years ago.
        In a life spent on the road, Mr. Hillaby had also been a part-time European science correspondent for The New York Times in the 1950's and early 60's, a science writer for The Manchester Guardian and The New Scientist and a lecturer at Yale University.
        His first best seller, ''Journey to the Jade Sea'' (1964), described his 1,100-mile trek by camel train across a desert to the olive-green Lake Rudolf in northern Kenya. Armed with a couple of rifles he hardly knew how to use, and supplied with 12 pairs of gym shoes, a floppy hat and a Swahili phrase book, Mr. Hillaby walked through the plains of the Serengeti, through Rwanda and up the Mountains of the Moon in Zaire.
        Mr. Hillaby was one of those quint essential British travel writers who present themselves as amateurs although they are not. He could write lyrically and informatively about natural history, folklore and myths, history and prehistory.
        Readers also responded to Mr. Hillaby because he was not doctrinaire about walking and sleeping outdoors and appreciated a fine inn when he discovered one. ''Essentially, I walk to get to places that are inaccessible  on wheels,'' he said.
        He also walked to get anecdotes about people, their humor, their grudges, the history of their lives. He liked traveling around Europe, he made clear in ''Journey Through Europe'' (1972), because ''you can turn up and look like a drowned rat, and they will not worry about the outer rat but rather the inner man.''
        In ''Journey Through Britain'' (1968), he wrote lovingly about the countryside he encountered on a 55-day walk that took him from Land's End to John o' Groats. In ''Journey Through Love,'' he wrote about the death in 1972 of his second wife, Thelma Gordon Hillaby. ''Journey Home'' (1983) celebrated his honeymoon walk from the Lake District to London with his third wife, Kathleen Burton Hillaby.
        As a science correspondent for The Times, he reported on a wide range of discoveries and expeditions, including the unearthing of a habitat of prehistoric rhinoceros hunters in northern Greece. He also wrote about the Soviet satellite Sputnik, which, by accident, he was one of the first Westerners to see. After it was launched in 1957, he saw it from an observatory he happened to be visiting in the Pyrenees.
        Mr. Hillaby's love for walking came from his boyhood roaming in Yorkshire, where he grew up after his parents moved from Margate, where he was born in 1917. He was in France with the Royal Artillery in  World War II.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Susan Young of New York and Lisa Haywood of London, from his first marriage, to the former Lynne Riley, from whom he was divorced in 1965; and two grandchildren.
      