
        Beryl Reid, the versatile British character actress who won a Tony Award in 1967 for her performance in ''The Killing of Sister George'' and was one of the most popular stars on the London stage and on British television, died on Sunday. She was 76.
        She had developed pneumonia after undergoing a knee operation, her agent, Robert Luff, said. He would not say where she died.
        Ms. Reid, who specialized in eccentric characters, had been a stand-up comic and variety entertainer for 30 years before making the transition to more serious acting. She performed in plays by Joe Orton, Edward Albee and Peter Nichols, as well as in classics for the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater.
        She had her greatest success as June Buckridge in Frank Marcus's ''Killing of Sister George.'' June was a lusty, cigar-smoking soap opera actress whose role as a rural nurse named Sister George was being excised from a long-running radio serial. In the play, which was a hit both in London and New York, Ms. Reid and Eileen Atkins portrayed a lesbian couple in a disintegrating relationship.
        Friends had warned Ms. Reid not to touch the play ''with a barge pole,'' thinking that the role would damage her image. Instead, it made her international reputation. She later starred in the Robert Aldrich film version, with Susannah York replacing Ms. Atkins. Sister George became her signature role, but it was one of several peaks in her career.
        She played the seductive landlady in the film of Joe Orton's ''Entertaining Mr. Sloane'' and recreated that role in a 1975 revival of the play at the Royal Court Theater. Subsequently, she won more admirers in the United States and London through television, especially from her role opposite Alec Guinness in the dramatizations of John le Carre's ''Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'' and ''Smiley's People.'' Ms. Reid was Connie Sachs, George Smiley's former research aide, who, despite her drinking, retained her exceptional memory.
        Ms. Reid was born in Hereford, England. Leaving school at 16, she made her debut in 1936 as a music hall performer at the Floral Hall, Bridlington. Before and during World War II, she took part in variety shows and pantomimes. Her comic imagination was certified on the BBC radio series ''Educating Archie,'' in which she created and played two contrasting roles, a schoolgirl in love with a ventriloquist's dummy and an earthy teen-ager with airs.
        In 1951, she made her London stage debut in ''After the Show,'' followed by a series of musical revues, in which she demonstrated the transforming ability of a chameleon. She said she usually played 16 to 18 characters in one night and never looked the same. After Ms. Reid appeared in a revue sketch by Harold Pinter in 1959, Harold Clurman called her ''a real artist and trouper with technical command.''
        ''Sister George,'' first presented in Bristol and in London in 1965, was her breakthrough. Later she acted in Mr. Albee's ''Counting the Ways'' at the National, in Congreve's ''Way of the World'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company and in Mr. Nichols's ''Born in the Gardens.''
        Her films include ''The Belles of St. Trinian's,'' ''The Dock Brief'' (renamed ''Trial and Error'' in the United States), ''Inspector Clouseau'' and Dylan Thomas's ''Doctor and the Devils.''
        In his review in The New York Times, Vincent Canby described her role in ''Joseph Andrews'' in 1977 as ''a battered, flirtatious crone with the manners of a truck driver trying to be dainty.''
        Ms. Reid wrote an autobiography, ''So Much Love,'' and was the co-author of ''Cats' Whiskers'' and ''Beryl, Food and Friends.'' In 1986 she was awarded the Order of the British Empire.
        Married and divorced twice, she lived in a cottage in Wraysbury, outside London. No immediate family members survive.
      