
        Lord Gladwyn, a patrician diplomat who helped draft the Charter of the United Nations and served as Britain's representative at the organization in the early days of the cold war, died on Thursday. He was 96.
        His family said he died at his home in Halesworth, 90 miles northeast of London.
        As Gladwyn Jebb, Lord Gladwyn  was appointed Acting Secretary General of the United Nations in 1946 and  organized the General Assembly's first meeting, which was held in London before the construction of the United Nations headquarters in Manhattan. He held the post until Trygve Lie of Norway was named Secretary General in late 1946.
        As Britain's representative at the United Nations from 1950 to 1954, he  became a familiar figure to television audiences as he fenced verbally with diplomats from the Soviet Union.
        When an interviewer asked him why Russian was not among the several languages he spoke, he replied that he did know a little Russian. ''There is one word I have come to know very well, because I hear it so much,'' he said. '' 'Nyet!' ''
        His piercing eyes and scathing wit during Security Council debates in 1950 and 1951 brought him hundreds of fan letters each week. ''I must say I was rather astonished at the volume and temper of the mail I received,'' he said in the fall of 1950. ''And no complaints about my English accent. Surprising!''
        He was British Ambassador to France from 1954 to 1960 and a member of the European Parliament from 1973 to 1975. In 1960 he was given a hereditary peerage in the House of Lords and chose the name Lord Gladwyn.
        Born in Yorkshire, Hubert Miles Gladwyn Jebb grew up familiar with the privileges and obligations of inherited wealth. His father, a much-traveled soldier, had himself been born to money.
        The future Lord Gladwyn followed an almost predictable life path for males born into the British upper class. He was educated at Eton and  at Oxford, where he excelled in history, and entered the Foreign Service in 1924. He was spotted early as a man who combined an organizational mind with a far-reaching imagination.
        Thus in the spring of 1942, when only the most optimistic military analysts were certain of an Allied victory, he was named head of a new Foreign Office section to plan on dealing with postwar problems. In 1943 he accompanied Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden to Washington to confer on the prospects for an international organization dedicated to peace.
        In 1944 he was a British delegate to the Dumbarton Oaks conference in Washington, which laid the groundwork for the United Nations. He also took part in the United Nations organizational conference at San Francisco in 1945.
        He attended the Yalta Conference in February 1945. In an interview a quarter-century later, he recalled being shocked at the appearance of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. ''We said to ourselves that he shouldn't have come, he looked so ill,'' he recalled. Roosevelt died two months later.
        In a 1984 interview, Lord Gladwyn said he agreed with the view of some historians that Roosevelt had tried too hard to please Stalin at Yalta. And he expressed admiration for Harry S. Truman, whom he called ''one of the best American Presidents, outshining even his famous predecessor.''
        Truman was not as clever as Roosevelt, not as ''charmingly aristocratic,'' nor as good a public speaker, Lord Gladwyn said. But he called Truman ''tougher, much better read, more courageous, more commonsensical, more shrewd.''
        Lord Gladwyn's wife, Cynthia, whom he married in 1929, died in 1990. Survivors include a son, Miles, who becomes the new Lord Gladwyn, and two daughters, Stella and Vanessa.
      