
        Abdus Salam, a Pakistani physicist whose work helped reveal the underlying unity of two of the fundamental forces of nature, died on Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 70 and had been suffering for years from a disabling neurological disorder.
        Dr. Salam shared the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics with two Americans, Dr. Steven Weinberg (now a professor at the University of Texas in Austin) and Dr. Sheldon Glashow of Harvard University, for research all three conducted independently of one another. Their theory on the fundamental forces is regarded by physicists as one of the landmarks of 20th-century science.
        Besides his trailblazing research in theoretical physics, Dr. Salam was a leader in international efforts to make physics accessible to students from developing countries. He was a founder of the International Center for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, Italy, which has supported the studies of third-world physicists since its founding in 1964.
        Research by Dr. Salam, Dr. Weinberg and Dr. Glashow culminated in equations demonstrating a fundamental relationship -- or ''symmetry'' -- between the electromagnetic force (which is transmitted by light and other forms of radiation) and the weak nuclear force, which operates within atomic nuclei and is responsible for certain types of radioactive decay. The four known forces of nature are the electromagnetic force, the weak and strong nuclear forces, and gravity.
        For the first instant after the universe was created by the Big Bang fireball some 15 billion years ago, physicists believe, the underlying symmetry of nature unified all the forces as one, But as conditions cooled, the symmetry was broken and the forces went their separate ways.
        Dr. Salam, remembered for his kindly manners and luxuriant black beard and mustache, used to explain the concept of symmetry breaking by analogy with a dinner party, at which the guests are seated around a circular table and a salad dish is placed between each pair of neighbors. The table setting is symmetrical until someone takes a salad dish either from his right or left side, after which the salad-dish symmetry is broken, and the other guests can no longer choose between left or right dishes. The broken symmetry of the weak force results in interactions that have a left-handed bias.
        But the three physicists were able to show that although the weak and electromagnetic forces seem completely unlike one another, they nevertheless share a hidden symmetry that can be demonstrated by an extremely difficult set of equations. Complicating matters, most of the solutions of these equations produce infinite values rendering the equations useless. A solution was found by developing mathematical tools to make the equations ''renormalizable,'' that is, free of uselessly infinite solutions.
        This was no easy task.
        In an interview yesterday, Dr. Glashow recalled that in 1960 he presented a paper in Copenhagen that he believed would lead to a ''standard model'' of particle physics that would be renormalizable.
        ''This caused a dispute,'' Dr. Glashow said, ''and about a month later, Abdus Salam showed that I was all wet.''
        But by the end of the 1960's all three scientists had reached generally similar conclusions. One was a prediction that the weak force must be transmitted by particles undiscovered up to then, known as weak vector bosons. These hypothesized particles -- the W-plus, W-minus and Z-zero particles, analogous to the photon particle, which transmits the electromagnetic force -- became the objects of a sometimes bitter race between accelerator physicists.
        In 1983, a group headed by Dr. Carlo Rubbia at CERN, the European Laboratory for Particle Physics in Geneva, found the W particles, and the next year they detected Z-zero particles, which transmit what is called weak neutral current within atomic nuclei.
        Acting with unusual speed, the Nobel committee awarded a physics prize to Dr. Rubbia and his collaborator, Dr. Simon van der Meer, in  1984, and the ''electroweak theory'' forged by Dr. Salam, Dr. Weinberg and Dr. Glashow was confirmed.
        Dr. Salam was born on Jan. 29, 1926, at Jhang, a rural community in what is now Pakistan. His father was a schoolteacher who encouraged his education, and his prodigious intellect won him first-class educational opportunities even as a child. At the age of 14 he entered Government College in Lahore, having achieved the highest grade ever recorded for an entrance examination to the college.
        He completed his undergraduate education at Punjab University and then moved to Cambridge University in England, which awarded him a doctorate in 1952. From 1951 to 1954 he also served as a professor of mathematics at Government College and Punjab University in Lahore. He then moved back to England, where in 1957, he became a professor of theoretical physics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London, where he remained for most of his life. It was there that he developed the mathematics of the electroweak theory.
        Awarded an honorary knighthood by Queen Elizabeth as well as many scientific prizes, Dr. Salam spent much of his later life trying to promote scientific education in developing countries, including Pakistan. In 1966 he recalled that while he worked in Lahore, he had felt ''terribly isolated'' by lack of communication with scientific peers, and that above all, third-world scientists need contact with counterparts in developed countries. He dreamed of founding a ''World University'' to that end.
        Dr. Salam, the first Muslim scientist to win a Nobel Prize, observed Muslim customs, including multiple marriages. His two wives attended his award ceremony in Stockholm in 1979, but Swedish officials felt obliged to seat them in different parts of the auditorium while the King decorated their husband.
        Dr. Salam, unable to speak or move without a wheelchair in his last years, is survived by his wife, Dr. Louise Johnson, and their child, as well as four children by his Muslim wife.
      