
        John E. Moseley, a radiologist who contributed to the understanding of sickle cell anemia and other blood disorders, died last Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Washington Heights and Edgartown, Mass.
        Dr. Moseley retired in 1980 as associate professor emeritus of radiology at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, with which he was affiliated for 35 years. He had concurrently been the director of Radiology at Sydenham Hospital.
        In his work with sickle cell patients he identified certain abnormalities and changes in the bones of patients. This helped him and others track the radiographic manifestations of bone changes in patients afflicted with other types of blood disorders. To further his research he collaborated with anthropologists in Peru to examine Inca and pre-Inca skeletons for bone abnormalities also found in such diseases as arthritis, tuberculosis, metastatic cancer and brain membrane tumors.
        He documented his experiences in  ''Bone Changes in Hematology Disorders,'' written for specialists. His papers were recognized in 1963 with the Manhattan Central Medical Society Award and the Ralph Colp Award from Mount Sinai.
        Dr. Moseley was born in Manhattan and graduated cum laude from Harvard College in 1932. As an undergraduate he received a fellowship to study physical anthropology at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass.
        He had hoped to attend Harvard Medical School, but finding that black students were less than welcome there, went on to receive his medical degree from the University of Chicago in 1936. He returned to New York that year to practice.
        After his retirement in 1980 he served as medical director of the Washington Heights Medical Group until 1989.
        Dr. Moseley is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Louise Foster; a daughter, Jane Hoffman Davenport of Riverdale, the Bronx, and two sisters, Lillian Cannon and Emma Brown, both of Manhattan.
      