
        Dr. Harold O. Gulliksen, a psychologist who influenced how America tests people, whether to see how well they can be expected to shoot a naval gun or to perform in college, died last Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 93.
        Dr. Gulliksen was professor emeritus of psychology at Princeton University.
        Colleges, industry and the military all have changed the way they test people as a result of Dr. Gulliksen's shaping of new areas of theory out of isolated bits of knowledge, said Dr. Samuel Messick, vice president for research at the Educational Testing Service in Lawrence Township, N.J. Dr. Gulliksen was a research adviser at the testing service for decades.
        Dr. Messick said Dr. Gulliksen and his students had produced new tools to determine quantitatively how well government programs like anticrime efforts or jobs initiatives actually worked.
        For his creativity spanning the birth of modern testing, Dr. Gulliksen became one of about 24 people to receive the gold medal for achievement in psychological science from the American Psychological Association.
        A classic example of his work occurred in World War II, when he found that the Navy's written tests for future gunners resulted in the best readers getting accepted but not always the best gunners. Dr. Gulliksen developed tests that more precisely measured aptitudes for handling a gun. As a result, the Navy took in a greater variety of people for training. ''Diversity has been a major payoff of his work,'' Dr. Messick said.
        After the war, Dr. Gulliksen wrote ''Theory of Mental Tests,'' a textbook published in 1950 and still in print and influential.
        Harold Gulliksen was born in Washington in 1903, and received  B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Washington in Seattle, and a doctorate in 1931 from the University of Chicago, where he became an associate professor.
        In World War II, his projects for the Navy at the College Board in Princeton also improved the testing of future officers. After the war, he became a professor of psychology at Princeton University and was research secretary for the College Board. When the Educational Testing Service was founded in 1948, he directed its psychometric fellowship program.
        From 1942 to 1949 he was managing editor of the journal Psychometrika, published by the Psychometric Society, of which he was a founding member in 1935.
        He is survived by two daughters, Eleanor McLauchlin, of Arlington, Va., and Kitty Goodrich, of Mendota Heights, Minn.; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. His wife, Dorothy Palmer Gulliksen, died in 1989.
      