
        John Henderson McNeill, a senior legal adviser in the Defense Department on issues ranging from arms control to matters pending before the World Court in The Hague, died on Oct. 26 in the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He was 55 and lived in Washington.
        He died while awaiting a liver transplant, a Pentagon official said.
        At the time of his death he was the senior deputy general counsel for international affairs and intelligence. He oversaw legal and policy reviews on matters affecting the department and led a task force seeking Senate consent for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
        He was born in Philadelphia, graduated from Villanova University and earned a law degree and a Ph.D. in international law at the London School of Economics. While studying in London, he served as a legal consultant to Amnesty International.
        In 1974 he joined the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and became a legal adviser to American teams negotiating with the Soviet Union at the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks and the Stategic Arms Reduction Talks and during negotiations that led up to the intermediate range nuclear forces agreement, among others. He moved to the counsel's office in the Pentagon in 1983.
        Most recently he was co-leader of the American delegation to the International Committee of the Red Cross meeting in 1995 about relief assistance. Last year he also represented the United States in a nuclear weapons case being argued at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
        Over the years he served as an adviser to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, the Ford Foundation and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Project on Governing Rules of International Law. He taught international law at the United States Naval War College and at Johns Hopkins and Georgetown Universities and contributed articles to periodicals like the American Journal of International Law.
        Mr. McNeill is survived by his wife of 30 years, Helen Foley McNeill; two sons, John H. 4th of Alexandria, Va., and Andrew P. J. of Washington; and a daughter, Bronwyn Jane Foley McNeill, also of Washington.
      