
        Artur Axmann, a former leader of the Hitler Youth  who sent thousands of young Germans to fight the Red Army and who later claimed to have been the last person to see Hitler alive, died in Berlin on Oct. 24. He was 83.
        His death was announced only on Monday after his burial at a secret location to prevent his tomb from becoming a neo-Nazi shrine, members of his family told German reporters.
        Born in Hagen in 1913, Mr. Axmann was an early convert to Nazism, joining the Hitler Youth while still a 15-year-old high-school student, five years before Hitler came to power in 1933.
        He distinguished himself in the eyes of Nazi superiors by organizing units of young workers modeled on early Communist labor union organizations, but with the task of seeking converts to National Socialism.
        Such was his success that, by 1932, he had been called to Berlin to join the national leadership of the Hitler Youth, which was open to young Germans between the ages of 10 and 18.
        Mr. Axmann served as a soldier on Germany's Western front from 1939 to 1940 before Hitler appointed him leader of the Hitler Youth, succeeding Baldur von Schirach in 1940. According to the authoritative German ''Lexicon of the Third Reich,'' he lost an arm visiting the Eastern front in 1941, and had no hesitation in ordering untold thousands of Hitler Youth members into combat as World War II swung against Germany.
        As the Soviet Army pressed into Berlin in April 1945, Mr. Axmann later told Allied prosecutors, he remained with Hitler and Eva Braun in the Chancellor's bunker in Berlin. He told prosecutors at his war crimes trial in 1949 that he was the last person to see the couple alive.
        Most historians say Hitler and Eva Braun, whom he had married a few hours earlier, took their lives and their bodies were incinerated. However, in 1994, a Russian historian, Lev A. Bezymensky, argued that the remains had not been completely incinerated and were removed from Berlin to Magdeburg in eastern Germany.
        In April 1945, Mr. Axmann fled Berlin ahead of the Soviet advance, but was captured by the Allies in December of the same year. He was tried as a supporter of the Nazis in 1949 and sentenced to 39 months' imprisonment, but the court ruled that he had already served out his punishment in pre-trial detention.
        In 1958, a German court fined him the equivalent of $25,000 to punish him for his incitement of young Germans in the Hitler Youth.
        At that time he was working as a sales representative. Since then, his life had drawn little attention in Germany and his death was barely mentioned in German newspapers.
        Citing laws protecting personal information, German officials declined to divulge the cause of his death or details of his surviving family.
      