
        Rudolf B. Schlesinger, a professor emeritus at the Hastings College of the Law whose studies of the world's legal systems are an important resource for those overseeing commercial links with other countries, died on Nov. 10 at his home in San Francisco. He was 87.
        His wife, Ruth, a retired arts curator at Hastings, appeared to have died along with her husband, the authorities said. She was 76.
        According to the San Francisco medical examiner's office, the Schlesingers are believed to have taken their own lives. The family released no information, but press reports in San Francisco said the couple had left word that they chose to die because of Mrs. Schlesinger's failing health.
        In a lifelong study of national legal systems, Professor Schlesinger studied their compatibility as national economies took on global dimensions in recent decades. The practice of comparative law, which he enriched, provided an important link.
        He was teaching at Cornell University in 1950 when he published ''Comparative Law: Cases-Texts-Materials,'' condensing his knowledge of national codes. It became a classic study in a field he helped to establish at American law schools.
        His ability to conceptualize and demarcate diverse legal systems opened the world of comparative law to generations of students. Since the publication ''Comparative Law,'' he has been joined by several co-authors to update it, and these newer versions remain staples of the nation's law curriculum. At his death he was working on revisions for a sixth edition, scheduled for next year.
        Professor Schlesinger, who retired in 1994 from Hastings, a part of the University of California at San Francisco, joined the faculty in 1975 as one of a group of distinguished professors recruited upon retiring from other law schools.
        Rudolf Berthold Schlesinger, who was born in Munich, Germany, to an American father, received a law degree from the University of Munich in 1933. He began a career in international law at the beginning of Nazi rule in Berlin. Working for a bank, he helped German Jews liquidate and transfer their assets until persecution put a stop to such efforts.
        He moved to the United States in 1938 and graduated from the Columbia Law School in 1942. After working as an associate and litigator with a Wall Street law firm, he began teaching at Cornell in 1948.
        From 1956 until retiring from Cornell in 1975, he was the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of International and Comparative Law. At Cornell, he led a 10-year international research project that produced a 1,700-page treatise, ''Formation of Contracts: A Study of the Common Core of Legal Systems,'' published in the United States and in Britain in 1968.
        Ruth Hirschland Schlesinger, who was born in Essen, Germany, immigrated to the United States in 1936. She graduated from Wheaton College and worked as a curator at several small museums before joining Hastings in 1978.
        The Schlesingers are survived by a daughter, Fay Freed, of Novato, Calif.; a son, Steven, of Silver Spring, Md., and seven grandchildren.
      