
        Lloyd A. Free, who upstaged his career as a pioneering specialist in international public opinion with a single American study that revealed a central paradox of national political sentiment, died on Monday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 88 and is remembered chiefly as the man who first established that Americans love big government every bit as much as they profess to loathe it.
        Mr. Free's career ecompassed monitoring Nazi propaganda in World War II, advising the United Nations on mass communication, heading the forerunner of the United States Information Agency and then measuring and assessing public opinion around the world. In these endeavors, he became known to a small circle of high-level policy makers as the man who brought sophisticated American polling techniques to diverse, often undeveloped, regions of world and came back with precise assessments of the political dynamics of countries as varied as France, Nigeria, Japan, Thailand and the Philippines.
        But for all the respect he enjoyed among academics and international experts in the State Department and the National Security Council, what made Mr. Free a revered figure among American pollsters was a study that focused on American public opinion.
        Like most of Mr. Free's other surveys, it was conducted for the Institute for International Social Research, an organization that he and a psychology professor at Princeton, Hadley Cantril, established at the university in 1955 with the backing of Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Published in 1968 as ''The Political Beliefs of Americans,'' the report, written with Dr. Cantril, became an instant landmark in political science, revealing that with regard to the size and scope of government, Americans were divided not so much among themselves as within themselves with the same people professing a belief in a small, low-tax government while at the same time professing support for a wide range of big, expensive government programs.
        The findings, invariably supported by later research, have become commonplace in American political commentary, but the original Free study is still often cited by analysts trying to explain what often seems to be a political impasse in efforts to balance the Federal budget.
        The American political dichotomy was reflected in Mr. Free's life. He was a lifelong Democrat whose father, Arthur, was a six-term Republican Congressman from California.
        Lloyd A. Free, a native of San Jose, Calif., graduated from Princeton as valedictorian of his class in 1930, after managing several of his father's re-election campaigns. (Lloyd Free was drawn back into politics decades later when he conducted surveys for Mr. Rockefeller's successful race for Governor of New York and his abortive campaign for President.)
        After teaching political science in China for a year, Mr. Free obtained a law degree from Stanford, practiced law for a while and then, drawn by his interest in international affairs, switched careers, becoming a commentator for the BBC and CBS in London in the late 1930's.
        He then taught two years at the School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton, conducted opinion surveys in Brazil and became editor of the Public Opinion Quarterly before being pressed into wartime service as director of the Foreign Broadcast Listening Service. It managed to predict German offensives with amazing accuracy, largely by counting the number of references to specific military units in Nazi propaganda broadcasts.
        Mr. Free then served as a military attache in Switzerland, organized a mass communications program for Unesco and did much the same thing for the State Department before helping Dr. Cantril set up the Princeton institute and serving as its director until retiring about 15 years ago.
        Although the international surveys Mr. Free conducted were invariably hailed for their accuracy and prescience, sometimes they slipped through the cracks. The most notable was a 1960 study of Cuban public opinion that found such an overwhelming degree of support for Fidel Castro that no one who read it would have dreamed that the Cuban people would rise up to support an invasion aimed at deposing him.
        The report received prominent coverage at the time and was routinely sent to the National Security Council, but was apparently forgotten in the change of Administrations the next year. It was not read by President John F. Kennedy's principal advisers until after the Bay of Pigs fiasco.
        Mr. Free is survived by two sons, Peter, of San Antonio, and Andrew, of Phoenix; two daughters, Christine, of Racine, Wis., and Kathleen Grant, of Littleton, Colo.; a sister, Geraldine Fletcher of Charlottesville, Va., and a grandson.
      