
        William Rosenwald, who gave and raised millions of dollars in a life dominated by philanthropy that saved tens of thousands of lives and bettered countless others through education and the arts, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 93.
        Mr. Rosenwald carried on a commitment to charity established by his father, Julius, a chairman and builder of Sears, Roebuck & Company, and was one of the three signatories to the agreement that founded a nationwide United Jewish Appeal in 1939.
        A private investor, Mr. Rosenwald  had business interests at various times in enterprises that included the American Securities Corporation, an investment bank; Western Union International, and Ametek, a maker of precision instruments and small electric motors, like those used in vacuum cleaners. He was nevertheless best known for his tireless philanthropic dedication.
        ''I spend half my time in philanthropic work, half at business, half with my family and half at personal affairs,'' he said once with his characteristic good humor.
        Besides his longtime work with the United Jewish Appeal, Mr. Rosenwald served for four decades on the board of the Tuskegee Institute and for many years on the board of the New York Philharmonic.
        Long before many others realized the threat posed to European Jews by the Nazis, Mr. Rosenwald was busy working to save as many people as he could from the impending Holocaust.
        In the mid-1930's, he led a family effort to rescue relatives in Europe, and by 1948, the endeavor had succeeded in bringing 300 of them to the United States and had assumed responsibility for another 300 still in Europe. Not only did the Rosenwalds bring their kin to America; they also provided them with homes and found them jobs.
        But Mr. Rosenwald's experiences in Europe gave him first-hand exposure to the plight of Jews in Nazi Germany and in other countries where anti-Semitism was flourishing.
        In a 1935 interview, Mr. Rosenwald said: ''There is the thought in my mind -- and that I would like to get across to the Jews of America -- that to the extent that the Jews as a whole help their suffering brethren, we will fortify the Jews of all countries against anti-Semitic onslaughts.''
        As a result, he was unremitting in his efforts to raise money to address the needs of Jews in distress.
        In 1939, when he became the organizer and first president of the National Refugee Service, later a part of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid  Society, he had already been working for three years to resettle refugees in communities outside New York City.
        And when the state of Israel was founded in 1948, Mr. Rosenwald was in the forefront of efforts to support the immigration of thousands of European refugees to the Jewish homeland.
        ''The time has come for rededication on a scale that will measure up to the historic moment that our generation has been privileged to witness,'' he said.
        Mr. Rosenwald served the United Jewish Appeal as one of its three national chairmen from 1942 to 1946, when he began the first campaign that raised more than $100 million; and he headed the organization's campaigns in 1955, 1956 and 1957.
        He encouraged the combined campaign of the U.J.A.-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York and served as the campaign organization's first president for three years beginning in 1974.
        For 50 years he was a member of the executive committee of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, and he held various posts with organizations like the Council of Jewish Federations and the American Jewish Committee.
        Mr. Rosenwald, one of the five children of Julius Rosenwald and the former Augusta Nusbaum, was born in Chicago in 1903. He earned a bachelor of science degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1924, studied liberal arts at Harvard University for a year, then attended the London School of Economics.
        Beginning in 1928, he went to work for Sears, Roebuck in various posts, including as a director from 1934 to 1938.
        In 1935, he began his career as a private investor.
        His many awards and honors included doctorates from Hebrew University and Tuskegee Institute.
        Mr. Rosenwald was married three times. His first marriage, to Renee Scharf in 1928, ended in divorce in 1935. In 1938, he married Mary Kurtz, who died in 1985, and last year, he married Ruth G. Israels, who survives him.
        Mr. Rosenwald is also survived by three daughters, Nina Rosenwald, Elizabeth R. Varet and Alice R. Sigelman, all of Manhattan; a stepson, Michael J. Israel of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and two step-grandchildren.
      