
        Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a psychologist who defied conventional wisdom and greatly emboldened the fledgling gay rights movement in the 1950's by finding there was no measurable psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men, died on Monday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89.
        Dr. Hooker, who spent 30 years teaching at the University of California at Los Angeles, began studying homosexual men in the late 1940's, a period in which they were considered maladjusted -- at best -- and generally ignored or anathematized by the medical and mental health professions.
        ''She never treated us like some strange tribe,'' recalled the writer Christopher Isherwood, who knew her at the time, ''so we told her things we never told anyone before.''
        Her most significant work was a paper delivered in 1956 to the American Psychological Association in Chicago and published the next year as ''The Adjustment of the Male Overt Homosexual'' in The Journal of Projective Techniques.
        Dr. Hooker administered three standard personality tests, including the Rorschach ink-blot test, to two groups of 30 men, one heterosexual, one homosexual, who had been matched in I.Q.'s, age and education levels.
        She then asked a panel of expert clinicians to assess the results without knowing the subjects' sexual orientation. To their surprise, the judges were unable to discern between the two groups on the basis of the test.
        ''The most striking finding of the three judges,'' Dr. Hooker wrote, ''was that many of the homosexuals were very well adjusted. In fact, the three judges agreed on two-thirds of the group as being average to superior in adjustment. Not only do all homosexuals not have strong feminine identification, nor are they all 'somewhat paranoid,' but, according to the judges, some may not be characterized by any demonstrable pathology.''
        Her study was criticized in many quarters, not least because it upended psychological orthodoxy. Among other objections was that she recruited her gay subjects through the assistance of ''homophile'' groups like the Mattachine Society, meaning that the men might be more content with their lives than the average homosexual and eager to prove that they were well adjusted.
        Moreover, the study was published in a journal that did not reach a wide public audience. Nonetheless, it was considered a precursor to the decision 17 years later by the American Psychiatric Association to remove homosexuality from its list of disorders in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual.
        ''Her work in the 1950's really provided the framework within which the American Psychiatric Association could rethink its viewpoint,'' said Dr. Richard A. Isay, clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.
        And 36 years after Dr. Hooker addressed the American Psychological Association, the organization gave her its award for distinguished contribution to psychology in the public interest, saying, ''This revolutionary study provided empirical evidence that normal homosexuals existed and supported the radical idea then emerging that homosexuality is within the normal range of human behavior.''
        Evelyn Gentry was born in North Platte, Neb., in 1907 and grew up in northeastern Colorado. She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Colorado and her Ph.D., in 1932, from Johns Hopkins University.
        Her exposure to the rise of Nazism while in Berlin on a fellowship in the late 1930's intensified her desire to make ''her life count in helping to correct social injustice,'' said a 1992 article in American Psychologist.
        She joined the faculty at U.C.L.A. in 1939 and, outside of one year at Bryn Mawr, remained there until 1970. It was at U.C.L.A. in the 1940's that she befriended a gay student, Sam From, who introduced her in turn to his circle of friends. It was Mr. From who said, ''We have let you see us as we are, and now, it is your scientific duty to make a study of people like us.''
        At the peak of the McCarthy period, in 1953, she applied for and received a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health. ''They talk about all this courage I'm supposed to have had,'' she recalled four decades later, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times. ''I don't get that. Curiosity and empathy were what compelled me to do my study.''
        In 1967, Dr. Hooker was appointed to head a study group on homosexuality for the National Institute of Mental Health. That panel recommended a repeal of sodomy laws and better public education about homosexuality.
        After retiring from U.C.L.A., Dr. Hooker had a private practice until the late 1970's. She reviewed articles for professional journals and helped establish the Placek Fund of the American Psychological Foundation, which provides money for research into homosexuality.
        She was also the subject of a 1992 documentary, ''Changing Our Minds: The Story of Dr. Evelyn Hooker,'' by David Haugland and Richard Schmiechen.
        Her second husband, Edward Niles Hooker, died in 1957. She is survived by two sisters, Mildred Haugh, of Downey, Calif., and Myrtle Fisher, of Colorado.
        In recent years, Dr. Hooker was frequently approached by strangers wanting to express their gratitude, such as a young woman who told her that she had been committed to a psychiatric hospital when her parents learned she was a lesbian.
        ''The standard procedure for treating homosexuals in that hospital was electroshock therapy,'' Dr. Hooker recalled in the book ''Making History'' (HarperCollins, 1992) by Eric Marcus.
        ''Her psychiatrist was familiar with my work and he was able to keep them from giving it to her. She had tears streaming down her face as she told me this. I know that wherever I go, there are men and women for whom my little bit of work and my caring enough to do it has made an enormous difference in their lives.''
      