
        Vuko Tashkovich, a Westchester architect and builder whose residential designs embraced the sights and styles of his native region of Macedonia, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 58.
        The cause was gastric cancer, his family said.
        His dramatic modern houses, million-dollar hideaways in the forests of northern Westchester, seemed to echo the Byzantine and Greek forms of Macedonia as enshrined in its monasteries, temples and minareted mosques.
        Acting as both designer and contractor, he pursued an independent career of some 30 years, along with his wife, Stefanie.
        The couple operated as Pound Ridge Contemporaries, and a retrospective of his work was seen just last month at the Hiram Halle Memorial Library in Pound Ridge. On view were conceptual drawings, floor plans, models and color photographs of the completed structures.
        Altogether, he had 57 houses to his credit, 28 of them in Pound Ridge alone.
        Mr. Tashkovich personally supervised the realization of his designs at the construction site. Typically, his creations were spacious white structures tucked away on two- or four-acre grounds by a lakeside, bathed in light and with sweeping views.
        Vuko Tashkovich was born in Skopje, the capital of the Macedonian republic, which was part of the former Yugoslavia. He came to the United States at the age of 20 and graduated from the School of Architecture at Cornell University. Before striking out on his own, he worked for the architects Eliot Noyes, John M. Johansen and I. M. Pei & Partners.
        He then became a latter-day master builder, integrating design and construction in his profession. To that end, he explored the rich architectural past of Byzantium and Greece to discover geometric forms with which to capture light, one of his prime concerns.
        Besides his wife and partner, Stefanie Lipsit Tashkovich, he is survived by two sons, Gligor and Mark, both of Pound Ridge; his stepmother, Virginia Harlow Tashkovich of Manhattan; his brother Oto, a resident of New Zealand, and a half-brother, Ljubo Tashkovich of Monaco.
      