
        Richard Nelson, a Tony Award-winning lighting designer for theater and dance, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Allison Sommers.
        Mr. Nelson created the lighting for more than 70 Broadway productions, including ''Sunday in the Park With George,'' for which he won Tony and Drama Desk awards. His other Broadway credits include ''Into the Woods,'' ''Mornings at Seven'' and ''The Tap Dance Kid.'' Mr. Nelson also devised the lighting for many Off Broadway plays and musicals, including David Henry Hwang's ''Golden Child,'' which is in previews at the Joseph Papp Public Theater.
        He was also known as a designer who, during a 40-year international career, helped to define the use of light as an important element in modern dance. Beginning in 1959, he worked with such choreographers as Martha Graham, Paul Taylor, Erick Hawkins and James Waring. From 1968 to 1973, he was the resident lighting designer for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.
        Mr. Nelson's designs were also seen at the Goodspeed Opera House in Chester, Conn., the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles and Center Stage in Baltimore, where he created the lighting for a production of Bertolt Brecht's ''Galileo'' in September. He also worked with Steve Reich, the composer, and Beryl Korot, the video artist, on ''The Cave,'' an opera that has been touring internationally since 1993. His architectural lighting designs include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif. He was also an associate professor of theater at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor from 1988 to 1991 and taught in the design department at the Tisch School of the Arts of New York University until last month.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Marc, of Albany; two sisters, Connie Kohn of Toms River, N.J., and Lynn Gruberth of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a brother, Sidney, of Tucson, Ariz., and two grandchildren.
      