
        Robert Ossorio, a patron of the arts and a founder of the Manhattan Festival Ballet, died on Wednesday  at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after being hit by a bus. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Ossorio, who was born in the Philippines, came to the United States as a child with his family. A spindly, sickly teen-ager, he eventually took up ballet to strengthen his body. His primary teacher was Margaret Craske, the authority on the Cecchetti system of teaching ballet. Determined to become a dancer, Mr. Ossorio had a modest career that included performing in Hollywood musicals and with the Grand Ballet de Marquis de Cuevas in Europe.
        Mr. Ossorio founded the Manhattan School of Ballet, headed by Craske, and in the mid-1960's formed the Manhattan Festival Ballet with Ron Sequoio. The little company left New York in 1968, but is remembered for its individualistic dancers, its good taste and the clarity and restraint of its approach to classical ballet.
        In addition to its classical repertory, the company was a repository for new choreography by Mr. Sequoio and artists ranging from well-known ballet dancers like Anton Dolin and Violette Verdy to leading modern-dance choreographers like Anna Sokolow and James Waring, as well as Viola Farber and Carolyn Brown, Merce Cunningham dancers. Mr. Ossorio performed occasionally with the group before retiring from the stage in the late 1960's.
        It was as a quiet patron of the arts that Mr. Ossorio, the son of a wealthy sugar refiner, was best known. He supported Craske and Olga Spessivtseva, the great Russian ballerina, during their old age in New York. He gave money to many dance companies and to music, the visual arts and institutions like Japan Society and the New York School of Design. Mr. Ossorio was a familiar presence at performances, a slightly built, pale gentleman who often attended by himself.
        Mr. Ossorio's brother Alfonso, an artist, died in 1990. He is survived by two other brothers, Frederick E. Ossorio of Boulder, Colo., and Jose Ossorio of Naples, Fla. A memorial mass will be celebrated on Wednesday at 3:30 P.M. at St. Paul the Apostle Roman Catholic Church, 415 West 59th Street, Manhattan.
      