
        Lord Sherfield, a British career diplomat who, as Sir Roger Makins, was Ambassador to the United States from 1953 to 1956, died on Saturday in Basingstoke, England. He was 92 and lived in a farmhouse near Basingstoke in Hampshire.
        Roger Makins was knighted in 1949 and became the first Baron Sherfield in 1964.
        In an interview after he was named Ambassador to the United States, Lord Sherfield said he was ''a very ordinary person'' who liked Americans ''because they are such a friendly people.''
        Lord Sherfield thought that an Ambassador's first duty was to get along well with the Government of the country to which he was posted, and in this area he was fortunate, Saul Kelly, a British historian who was helping him to write his memoirs, recalled yesterday. As a career diplomat, Lord Sherfield had been attached to the Allied Mediterranean Command for a time during World War II and had come to know Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        When President Eisenhower, not long after being inaugurated in 1953, encountered Lord Sherfield while shaking hands with a line of diplomats, Dr. Kelly said, the President exclaimed, ''Roger, what are you doing here?''
        Dr. Kelly said that when Lord Sherfield got to know Secretary of State John Foster Dulles in 1953, ''He found that the public face of Dulles was gruff and puritanical, but he found that the private man could relax, and he could take his whisky with the best of them.'' Lord Sherfield, Dr. Kelly said, ''already had the confidence of Eisenhower, and he soon won the confidence of Dulles.''
        In addition, during Lord Sherfield's time as Ambassador in Washington, the chairman of the federal Reserve Board was one of his brothers-in-law, William McChesney Martin.
        Good relations with key Washingtonians were important in that era because there were policy differences between Washington and London, notably regarding the Middle East and the Far East, trade and Churchill's desire for a summit meeting with the Soviet Union.
        But because of Lord Sherfield's friendly relations with Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles, ''he could talk about these differences in a friendly atmosphere and take some of the sting out of these differences, and this was, I think, probably his biggest contribution as Ambassador, because the Americans trusted him,'' Dr. Kelly said.
        It was not until after Lord Sherfield stepped down as Ambassador to the United States in late 1956, to become a high Treasury official, Dr. Kelly said, and returned to Britain that he learned that secret plans had been laid for an invasion of Egyptian territory.
        On Oct. 29, 1956, Israel, with air support from Britain and France, sent troops onto Egyptian soil, having undergone border raids from Egypt. Britain and France sent troops to retake the Suez Canal despite American opposition, but they withdrew in favor of a United Nations emergency force after strong pressure from Washington and Moscow.
        Before becoming Ambassador to Washington, Lord Sherfield served twice in other positions in the British Embassy there. He had also served as Assistant Under Secretary of State at the Foreign Office in London and then Deputy Under Secretary of State.
        After he returned from Washington, he served as Joint Permanent Secretary of the Treasury and chairman of Britain's Atomic Energy Authority. He later went into investment banking and was chairman of the Hill, Samuel Group and of the Industrial and Commercial Finance Corporation, a banking industry organization.
        Lord Sherfield was on various other boards in industry, finance and other spheres, but he gave up the last of his directorships when he was about 90.
        He was chancellor of the University of Reading from 1970 to 1992.
        Lord Sherfield was born in London, the son of Brig. Gen. Sir Ernest Makins, a hero of the Boer War. He was educated at Oxford, where he took first class honors in history in 1925. He was called to the bar in 1927 but joined the Foreign Office in 1928, having come in first in a competitive entrance exam that year.
        In his later years he also wrote obituaries. After the British diplomat Lord Gladwyn died in October of this year, Lord Sherfield updated an obituary that he had written in advance for The Guardian, and it appeared in the Guardian's issue of Oct. 26.
        His wife of 51 years, the former Alice Davis, died in 1985. Her father was Dwight Davis, donor of the Davis Cup for international tennis and Secretary of War under President Coolidge.
        Lord Sherfield is survived by two sons, Christopher Makins of Washington and Dwight Makins, who lives near Basingstoke; twin daughters, Mollie Viscountess Norwich and Cynthia Colman, both of London; two other daughters, Virginia Shapiro of London and Patricia Makins-Sagan of San Francisco; 12 grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      