
        Eleanor Lansing Dulles, an economic specialist for the State Department who played a major part in planning the reconstruction of West Berlin in the 1950's, died on Wednesday in the Knollwood military retirement home in Washington. She was 101.
        Her death was reported by The Associated Press on Friday.
        Mrs. Dulles, who was sometimes called ''the Mother of Berlin'' for her enthusiastic efforts to revitalize the economy and culture of that battered capital as it recovered from World War II, managed to carve for herself a formidable reputation even though her two brothers, John Foster Dulles and Allen Welsh Dulles, held much higher rank in the American Government.
        She was offered the State Department's Berlin desk in 1952, just before Foster Dulles was named Secretary of State.
        She quickly saw trouble coming, she said in a memoir published in 1980, because Foster had been criticized for using his influence to get Allen the top job in the C.I.A. and wanted to avoid further accusations of nepotism. She was already a career diplomat, and her West Berlin position came through before Mr. Dulles's appointment, yet once he was in office, he tried to force her out. He did not succeed, she noted with some satisfaction.
        Mrs. Dulles said it was difficult for a woman to serve in the State Department in that era.
        ''This place is a real man's world if ever there was one,'' she said in 1958. ''It's riddled with prejudices. If you are a woman in Government service you just have to work 10 times as hard -- and even then it takes much skill to paddle around the various taboos. But it is fun to see how far you can get in spite of being a woman.''
        Mrs. Dulles was born in Watertown, N.Y., one of five children of a Presbyterian minister and his wife. One ancestor, John Welsh, served as envoy to Britain in Rutherford B. Hayes's Administration, and her grandfather John W. Foster and an uncle, Robert Lansing, each served as Secretary of State, under Presidents Benjamin Harrison and Woodrow Wilson, respectively.
        She graduated from Bryn Mawr College with a major in social sciences, worked in refugee rehabilitation and reconstruction projects in France after World War I and returned to Bryn Mawr to earn a master's degree in labor and industrial economics.
        She took odd jobs in the early 1920's -- running a punch press at the American Tube & Stamping Company in Bridgeport, Conn., and working as payroll clerk for a hair net company in Long Island City, Queens.
        She also traveled extensively in Europe, studied at the London School of Economics, investigated industrial methods in 75 British firms and received a master's degree from Radcliffe College and a doctorate in economics from Harvard.
        In the 1930's she studied and taught economics and finance in Paris, Geneva, Basel, Boston, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Bryn Mawr. She produced scholarly books including ''The French Franc, 1914-1928,'' ''The Facts and Their Interpretation'' and ''The Bank for International Settlements at Work.'' She wrote more than a dozen books in all.
        When she was 30 she met David Simon Blondheim, a philologist who, as an Orthodox Jew, was not regarded by her family as marriage material, she indicated in her memoir. She married him anyway, in 1932. In 1934, not long before the birth of their son, Dr. Blondheim committed suicide.
        Mrs. Dulles, who used her maiden surname, entered Government service in 1936 as director of financial research for the Social Security Board. In 1942 she moved on to the State Department. At the Bretton Woods international monetary conference in New Hampshire in 1944, she was a prominent member of the American delegation.
        The next year, she went to Vienna as the State Department's financial attache. She demonstrated keen bargaining powers -- helping to feed starving Austrians by arranging the barter of horses for German cabbages and potatoes.
        Later, as special assistant to the director of the State Department's office of German affairs, Mrs. Dulles was credited with ''working miracles,'' as one biographer put it. She helped to reduce West German unemployment and increase production.
        To hasten those developments, she said, she would ''send requests from Berlin for money and rush back to Washington in time to compose favorable answers.'' She wangled more than $1 billion for West Berlin, adorning it with the now-famous Congress Hall, which Berliners for many years fondly referred to as the ''Dulleseum'' and ''Frau Dulles's Hut,'' as well as a hospital and educational centers.
        Beginning in 1959, Mrs. Dulles was assigned to studying foreign aid programs and visited 60 countries on behalf of the State Department's office of intelligence and research.
        She left the State Department in 1962, after her brother Allen had been dismissed from the C.I.A. in the wake of the Bay of Pigs catastrophe. Leonard Mosley wrote in his 1978 book ''Dulles'' that early in 1962, during the Kennedy Administration, Secretary of State Dean Rusk summoned her and said, ''The White House has asked me to get rid of you.''
        Mrs. Dulles, in her memoirs, ''Eleanor Lansing Dulles: Chances of a Lifetime,'' published in 1980, wrote affectionately of her older brothers but did not hesitate to say that since childhood there were frictions among the siblings. She also admitted that her strong personality won her her share of enemies.
        She suffered from poor eyesight since childhood and developed deafness but remained active well into her old age.
        Her survivors include her son, David, of Washington, and her daughter, Ann Dulles Joor, of Manlius, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      