
        McHenry Tichenor, who built a radio empire that spread Tejano music from its Texas cradle to the rest of the country, died on Oct. 24 at his home in La Feria, near Harlingen, by the Mexican border. He was 98.
        At his death he was chairman of the Dallas-based Tichenor Media System, which he founded after he bought KGBS in Harlingen in 1949 and introduced all-Spanish radio in the United States. The system has grown to 19 Spanish and bilingual stations in six markets including Chicago, San Francisco and San Antonio, where its KXTN is that city's No. 1 Tejano station. The group also offers ''Tejano Country,'' a syndicated weekly television program featuring Tejano videos along with country music and celebrity interviews.
        The word Tejano means Texan in Spanish. In its radio format it is a blend of Mexican norteno music with distinctly local echoes of pop, rock, blues -- even some German polka rhythms and accordions. In recent years it became an enormous hit with second- and third-generation Mexican-Americans, particularly younger, more-affluent English speakers.
        By then the Tejano sound and the expanding fortunes of the Tichenor family had become intertwined. Their stations were primary vehicles for the music and for its budding diva, Selena. They developed a close relationship with the young singer, who was called the ''Queen of Tejano.''
        The Tichenors gave her career a lift as she expanded her repertory to English and appeared on network television. Her murder in March of last year drew more national attention to the music.
        McHenry Tichenor was born in rural Kentucky and attended the University of Kentucky before going into the newspaper business. He held stakes in a number of small papers in Oklahoma, Colorado and Nevada before receiving the license for station KGBS in Harlingen.
        At the time he was raising a family in a part of the Rio Grande Valley in which Anglos formed but a small minority of the population. In part because of his work with Hispanic-Americans, he was named to the Texas Business Hall of Fame in 1989 and in 1993 received a Pioneer of the Year Award from the Texas Association of Broadcasters.
        Mr. Tichenor, a widower, is survived by his son, McHenry Tichenor Sr., vice chairman of Tichenor Media System; five grandchildren, including McHenry Jr., president, and Warren W., vice president of the company, and four great-grandsons.
      