
        Konrad Fischer, a leading European dealer in contemporary art, died on Sunday in Dusseldorf, Germany. He was 57.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothee.
        For nearly 30 years, Mr. Fischer's Dusseldorf gallery represented an impressive and remarkably stable roster of American and European artists, achieving an almost mythic reputation in the art world. An early and consistent supporter of Minimal, Post-Minimal and Conceptual art, Mr. Fischer saw his gallery as a way to combat the provincialism of the postwar German art scene.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, many leading American artists had their first European shows with Mr. Fischer, most notably Carl Andre, Sol LeWitt and Bruce Nauman, all of whom would eventually show between 10 and 20 times at his gallery. Artists who had their first solo exhibitions with him included Richard Long, Hanne Darboven, Lawrence Weiner and On Kawara. Mr. Fischer also introduced the work of Mario Merz, the Italian Arte Povera artist, to Germany.
        Mrs. Fischer, who worked with her husband, said yesterday that the gallery would remain open.
        Mr. Fischer was born in Dusseldorf in 1939. He began his professional life as an artist, studying between 1958 and 1962 at the Kunstakademie Dusseldorf.In the 1960's, he had seven one-man shows in Germany and in Paris, exhibiting as Konrad Lueg (he used his mother's maiden name). In 1963, he and two other Kunstakademie graduates, Gerhard Richter and Sigmar Polke, founded an art movement called Capital Realism, a figurative painting style that was a response to American Pop Art.
        But while Mr. Polke and Mr. Richter went on to international fame as painters, Mr. Fischer found another route. A Dusseldorf dealer, Alfred Schmela, with whom he had exhibited, suggested that the younger man would make a very good art dealer and proposed that they open a gallery together.
        Two weeks later, Mr. Schmela backed out of the project, but the idea had taken hold and Mr. Fischer decided to go it alone. In 1967 he and his wife opened a gallery in a small space on Neubruckstrasse at the center of Dusseldorf -- really a covered alley that they enclosed at both ends. His first show was devoted to Mr. Andre, who found that he had to help paint the gallery floor before he could install his work.
        In 1970 Mr. Fischer was the moving force behind ''Prospekt,'' an influential exhibition at the Dusseldorf Kunsthalle that featured the work of emerging artists from around the world. In 1972, working with Harald Szeeman, now director of the Kunsthaus Zurich, he also organized a section of the highly regarded ''Documenta 5'' exhibition in Kassel.
        During the 1970's, Mr. Fischer expanded his operations. He had a gallery in Zurich and another in Rome (with the Italian art dealer Gian Enzo Sperone). Between 1975 and 1982, he was a partner in Sperone Westwater Fischer, a large Manhattan gallery, in SoHo, that continues today as Sperone Westwater.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Kasper; a daughter, Berta, and two sisters, Erika Fischer of Ireland and Almut Boch of Canada.
      