
        Hugo Buchthal, who fled Nazi Germany and became a renowned New York University art historian and an authority on the interplay of cultures in another turbulent age, died on Sunday at a retirement home in London. He was 87.
        Professor Buchthal (pronounced BOOK-thall) was an expert on medieval art history, specifically the illumination of manuscripts. He did pioneering research on the illustration of Christian religious books that were hand-copied by European scribes in the 12th and 13th centuries in the Crusader kingdom of Jerusalem.
        His research included the analysis of cross-cultural links from the Middle East to Paris to Byzantium expressed in the adornment of these manuscripts by their cosmopolitan scribes.
        A former student of Professor Buchthal's, Thomas F. Mathews, who is now the John Langeloth Loeb Professor of the History of Art at N.Y.U., said that the scholar's writings on that subject ''laid the foundation for all subsequent work on the art of the Crusaders.''
        As a result, Professor Mathews said, there is now ''practically an academic industry'' made up of scholars who study art produced by Europeans in the kingdoms that the Crusaders founded in the eastern Mediterranean s after they captured Jerusalem in 1099.
        Professor Buchthal retired in 1975 as the first occupant of the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Chair in Fine Arts at N.Y.U., where he was on the faculty for 10 years. He had previously taught at the University of London and elsewhere. After leaving N.Y.U., he moved to Britain and lectured and wrote. Earlier this year, he was awarded the university's Presidential Medal of Honor.
        Born and raised in Berlin, Professor Buchthal, who was Jewish, was finishing his doctoral work at the University of Hamburg when Hitler came to power in 1933. He left Germany for London in 1934 and turned his thesis, on a religious book produced at the Byzantine imperial  court, into a book, ''The Miniatures of the Paris Psalter'' (1938). Having also studied at the Warburg Institute, an independent research center in Hamburg, he became its librarian for a time after it moved to London to escape Nazism.
        During the 1940's and 1950's, he tracked down -- chiefly in libraries and private collections in France and Italy -- and studied dozens of illuminated 12th- and 13th-century books that had been produced in Jerusalem.
        The result of this research was his much-acclaimed ''Miniature Painting in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem'' (1957). In this work he catalogued the medieval books in addition to analyzing the cross-cultural links expressed on their pages.
        Over the years, he also did much research on the ancient legend of the fall of Troy as it was recast and retold in Western Europe in the Middle Ages and as it appeared in the illumination of manuscript books, most of which were produced in 14th-century Venice. An expression of his fascination with mythical Troy was his book ''Historia Troiana: Studies in the History of Medieval Secular Illustration'' (1971).
        He was also influential in drawing the attention of younger art historians to late Byzantine art, chiefly the illuminated manuscripts that were produced in the 14th century in Constantinople, then the capital of the Byzantine Empire and now called Istanbul.
        His many writings also include a volume of his collected essays, ''Art of the Mediterranean World A.D. 100 to 1400'' (1983).
        He was a fellow of the British Academy, a Guggenheim Fellow in 1970 and 1971, a visiting professor at Columbia University in 1963 and a member of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton at various times in the 1950's, 60's and 70's.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Amalia Serkin, sister of the pianist Rudolf Serkin; and a daughter, Anna Buchthal of Groningen, the Netherlands.
      