
        Leonard F. Rothkrug, a combative Brooklyn-bred lawyer who proclaimed his specialty and rank -- Zoning 1 -- on the license plates of his limousine, died Friday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 68.
        The cause was emphysema, said his son, Simon H. Rothkrug.
        Mr. Rothkrug was believed to have filed more zoning variance applications than any other lawyer in New York City from the 1950's through the 1980's.
        ''During that period, he was really tremendous,'' recalled Philip Olin, who served almost a quarter century as borough commissioner for the Buildings Department in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. ''He was called Mr. Zoning. He had a lot of moxie.''
        Mr. Rothkrug worked on large projects like Co-op City in the Bronx and for large developers like the LeFrak Organization in Forest Hills, Queens. ''In zoning, we had a technical problem, we called on him,'' Samuel J. LeFrak, the chairman of the company, said yesterday. ''He knew it from A to Z.''
        But it was in the smaller cases that Mr. Rothkrug earned his reputation, representing the owner of an auto-repair shop who wanted extra parking space or the health-club operator who needed a special permit or the restaurateur who hoped to build an addition to accommodate a larger kitchen or more seating.
        ''Gas stations he did by the thousands,'' Mr. Olin said.
        There were also street ''de-mappings,'' his son said, many on Staten Island. In some areas of the city, there are streets that exist prospectively on official maps but have never been paved or used as thoroughfares. Before they can be built upon, these ''paper'' streets must be deleted from the maps.
        Mr. Rothkrug was practically born into the world of building regulation. His father, Dewey, spent 47 years in the Buildings Department, mostly in Brooklyn. The son attended Brooklyn Law School and opened an office on Court Street in 1948. He later moved the practice to Great Neck, L.I.
        While Mr. Rothkrug was better known outside Manhattan, he made a mark on the Upper East Side, successfully representing the owner of a lot at 14 East 96th Street who in the early 1980's sought to build an extremely narrow ''sliver'' tower after the city had effectively banned such construction.
        An opponent in that case, Elizabeth Ashby of the Carnegie Hill Neighbors group, said Mr. Rothkrug ''was certainly a bulldog for his clients, but that doesn't mean he didn't behave as an honorable man.''
        Perhaps Mr. Rothkrug's most significant case in recent years involved a challenge to the Buildings Department's practice of rejecting builders' plans for basement units with separate entrances and bathrooms if the houses were in districts zoned for single-family homes.
        The rationale was that such plans yielded structures that could easily be converted to two-family dwellings, in violation of zoning, said Charles G. Sturcken, the former deputy counsel of the department, who handled the case.
        ''Mr. Rothkrug had a flair for language in going up against the government,'' Mr. Sturcken said. ''In his papers -- I'll never forget the quote -- he said this was 'nothing but misguided socialist dogma being perpetrated upon the business community.' He said how dare they tell the American people how many toilets they can have in their houses.''
        The Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn ruled for Mr. Rothkrug's client. ''That was a very powerful case for the development community,'' Mr. Sturcken said.
        In July 1960, an armed intruder broke into the Rothkrugs' home in Great Neck. After shooting Mr. Rothkrug, the gunman abducted his wife, Nancy, and held her captive for seven hours until the police caught up with the getaway car in Wallingford, Conn. The assailant recently finished serving a 25-year prison sentence, Mr. Rothkrug's son said.
        The Rothkrugs moved to Florida in 1992, but the law practice has been continued as Rothkrug & Rothkrug by Simon Rothkrug and his brother Adam, both of Great Neck.
        Besides these two sons and his wife, Mr. Rothkrug is survived by another son, Hiram, of Great Neck; a daughter, Irene, of Washington, and six grandchildren.
      