
        Sol Levine, a researcher and writer on medical sociology, died on Sunday at the New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 74 and lived in nearby Brookline.
        The cause was sudden cardiac arrest, according to the Harvard School of Public Health, where Dr. Levine was a professor of health behavior in the department of health and social behavior.
        At his death he was also a senior scientist at the New England Medical Center. He was associated with Harvard as director of the Social Science Program in the 1960's, returned as a guest lecturer in the 1970's and rejoined the faculty as a full-time member in 1990.
        Dr. Levine's expertise, distilled in his voluminous writings, left its stamp on the fields of medical sociology and public health. He contributed insights into the recovery of heart patients, the terminal patient, social stress, the quality of life afforded patients in the medical care system, and the various organizations of the health professions.
        He was the author, co-author or editor of 10 books and some 100 articles and scientific papers. Among the textbooks were ''Society and Health'' (Oxford University Press, 1995), ''Handbook of Medical Sociology'' (Prentice-Hall; second edition, 1972), ''Social Stress'' (Aldine, 1970) and ''Life After a Heart Attack: Social and Psychological Factors After Eight Years'' (Human Sciences Press, 1982).
        Sol Levine was born in Greenwood, Miss., and grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He graduated from Queens College and earned master's and doctoral degrees in sociology at New York University.
        After his first stint at Harvard, he accepted a professorship at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health in 1966 and became the founding chairman of its department of behavioral sciences. Before rejoining the Harvard faculty, he also held teaching and administrative posts at Boston University and the Henry Kaiser Family Foundation.
        Dr. Levine is survived by his wife, Alice Gordon Levine; two daughters, Andrea Levine of Washington and Pamela L. Katz of Los Angeles, and a son, Joshua, of Manhattan.
      