
        David Kidd, an American expatriate who became so imbued with traditional Chinese and Japanese art and culture that by the end of his career he was teaching Japanese traditions to the Japanese, died on Thursday in Honolulu. He was 69 and had homes there and in Kyoto, Japan, where he was the founding director of the Oomoto School of Traditional Japanese Arts.
        His friends said the cause was cancer.
        Maybe it was something about growing up in Corbin, Ky., where his father operated a coal mine, or the experience of coming of age in Detroit after his father became an automotive executive, but as soon as Mr. Kidd heard Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' as a teen-ager, he knew he was not quite of the American world.
        Although he was never able to explain his original fascination with China, Mr. Kidd, who may only have wanted to get as far away from home as possible, seemed to know that time was running short. Rushing to Peking as 19-year-old University of Michigan exchange student in 1946, he spent the next four years teaching English at suburban colleges, developing a lifelong fascination with ancient Chinese art and serving as an eyewitness to the end of an era.
        Through an unlikely marriage to  Aimee Yu, the daughter of a former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of China, he moved into her aristocratic family's 101-room palace, a labyrinth of courtyards and corridors packed with ancient treasures, including two dozen Yu relatives, who served the new son-in-law as guides to the ways of a dying regime.
        As a participant in old China's last great Chinese wedding celebration, as a mourner at its last great funeral, of his wife's father, and as perhaps the only American in Tiananamen Square for the formal Communist takeover, Mr. Kidd was more than an awed observer.
        His insightful inside account of the last days of the ancient regime was published as ''All the Emperor's Horses'' in 1960 and revised and reissued as a Crown paperback retitled ''Peking Story'' in 1988.
        After going to the United States in 1950, the couple, who were eventually divorced, went their separate ways, she to pursue a career as a physicist in California, he to immerse himself in Oriental art circles in New York.
        Scrambling, as he later told it, to stay a page ahead of his students, he taught at the Asia Institute until 1956, when he succumbed to the pull of the Orient and moved to Japan.
        Settling in a 300-year-old mansion in Ashiya, he taught at Kobe and Osaka Universities and spent his spare time turning his house into a veritable museum of Chinese and Japanese art and antiques.
        With the help of a student, Yasuyoshi Morimoto, who became first his driver and then his partner in art and in life, he found bargains galore, partly because in their rush to build an industrial society, Japanese collectors were scorning their own treasures and those that had been sent back as plunder from China.
        When his landlord decided to raze the property to make way for a modern development, Mr. Kidd, who received permission to dismantle the house, moved to Kyoto, where he opened a school to teach the tea ceremony, calligraphy and other traditional arts, initially to foreigners and eventually to Japanese who had lost the thread of their own culture in the rush to Westernization.
        In the school's sponsor, the Oomoto Shinto sect, Mr. Kidd found a kindred spirit. Its motto is ''Art is the mother of religion.''
        In Kyoto, Mr. Kidd, who had been arranging seminars for years, was soon a prime attraction for individual travelers interested in ancient art and even a regular stop on tours arranged for wealthy members by the Museum of Modern Art.
        As a tourist attraction, Mr. Kidd did not disappoint. To sit on a cushion before his throne, listening to his erudite patter, and seeing him sitting cross-legged on his kang, a divided Chinese sofa, rustling his silken gown as he gestured extravagantly with his inevitable cigarette, was to be in the presence of a presence.
        When a wealthy visitor offered him some exorbitant price for one of his treasures, Mr. Kidd, whose friends say he would have swooned at the crass suggestion that he was, ahem, a d-e-a-l-e-r, would gasp that he could not bear to live without that particular piece, which, nevertheless, in some mysterious process that would help finance his life style and other acquisitions, would find its way into some American museum or private collection.
        Mr. Kidd, whose major disappointment was that his friend David Bowie had not gotten around to portraying him in a movie of his days as a blond, wavy-haired dandy in Peking, was consoled during the last year of his life by news that a Kyoto society had agreed to reassemble his old Ashiya house as a museum.
        He is survived by his companion, Mr. Morimoto.
      