
        Michael W. Moynihan, an advocate of free trade who served in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Tuesday at his home in Kitty Hawk, N.C. He was 68.
        Mr. Moynihan, a brother of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, suffered from prostate cancer, although the cause of death has not been determined, his family said.
        From 1980 to 1990, Mr. Moynihan worked for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris, a group that aims to coordinate the economic policies of more than 20 of the world's wealthiest nations. He served first as the organization's director of information and later became its representative in Washington.
        After his retirement in 1992, he became a consultant, working in support of United States approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, both of which ultimately won ratification by Congress.
        Much earlier, during the Kennedy Administration, Mr. Moynihan was  the spokesman for the new White House Office of the President's Special Trade Representative. Then, in the Johnson Administration, he served as director of the information service of the Agency for International Development.
        Later he was director of public affairs for the Port of New York Authority, and then from 1967 to 1980 was the president of his own public affairs consulting firm, with offices in New York and Washington.
        It was at one point in this period that critics questioned his representing a Saudi delegation that visited Washington in 1977 to meet with President Jimmy Carter. But Mr. Moynihan rejected the critics' suggestions that he might influence his elder brother, Senator Moynihan, a  New York Democrat and staunch supporter of Israel, by saying, ''I wouldn't want to work for anyone who is so dumb that he thought I could get favors out of my brother.''
        Mr. Moynihan was born in Teaneck, N.J., and grew up in Manhattan and the Long Island City section of Queens. He received a bachelor of science degree in social studies from the City College of New York in 1951 and a master of arts degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, administered by Harvard and Tufts, in 1952.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Helena Ferris Smith; two sons, Michael Jr., of Washington, and Eamon, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Mary Schmandt of Chevy Chase, Md.; a grandchild, and two brothers -- the Senator, and Thomas Stapelfeld of Canton, Conn.
      