
        Hans W. Kosterlitz, the neuropharmacologist who won an international race to find the first opiate-like substances in the brain, died on Oct. 26 at a nursing home in Aberdeen, Scotland, where he lived. He was 93.
        The discovery of those small proteins -- called enkephalins, after the Greek word for ''head'' -- has been followed by the cataloguing of larger, similar molecules in the brain. As a group, all these brain chemicals are called endorphins, and they hold out the promise that scientists may one day find drugs to counter pain without being addictive.
        A number of laboratories at major research centers were hard on the trail of the enkephalins, but Dr. Kosterlitz, working with a younger colleague, John Hughes, at the University of Aberdeen isolated them first, in 1975. At the time, Dr. Kosterlitz was 72 years old and had officially retired from the university as a professor emeritus, but he kept up his research until he was 89.
        The quest for the enkephalins began in 1973, when three research groups -- first one led by Dr. Solomon H. Snyder at Johns Hopkins University, then groups led by Dr. Eric J. Simon at New York University and Dr. Lars Terenius at Uppsala University in Sweden -- reported within a short period of time that brain cells had membrane receptors that seemed tailor-made to latch onto opiates like morphine. The opiates exert their effect on the brain by binding to those receptors. But that raised the question of why such receptors had evolved.
        Dr. Simon, a professor of psychiatry and pharmacology, said scientists had reasoned that ''God clearly didn't put those receptors there for people to shoot up heroin or to get pain relief from morphine -- there must be some reason why they're there.'' That sent people looking for the natural substances that interact with the opiate receptors.
        Dr. Kosterlitz did not have the resources of a large research center behind him as he joined the quest, but he was armed with an exquisitely sensitive test he had developed to tease out the opiate activity from the biochemical soup of brain extracts. He had found that receptors in some smooth muscle, in the guinea pig intestine and in the mouse vas deferens, the duct that carries sperm, also have the opiate receptors, and that the potency of opiates or opiate-like chemicals can be measured by how well they inhibit muscle contraction. So Dr. Kosterlitz and Dr. Hughes screened different extracts from pig brains for opiate activity. By focusing on the most active extracts, they isolated two enkephalins, then determined their chemical structure.
        The endorphins that have been found since then all contain one of the enkephalin structures found in Dr. Kosterlitz's laboratory; they are found in humans as well as in other mammals. The endorphins seem to affect the brain in many ways, sometimes acting as the chemical messengers between neurons and sometimes modulating the messages carried by other such messengers. They affect things like mood and hunger as well as pain perception.
        Dr. Snyder, director of the department of neuroscience at Johns Hopkins, said Dr. Kosterlitz had gone on to equally important work.
        ''Not only did he discover the endorphins,'' Dr. Snyder said, ''but he found that there are subtypes of opiate receptors. That's one of the biggest breakthroughs in the field. If there are different kinds of receptors, one kind might be for pain relief while another causes addiction. That could help the pharmaceutical industry design drugs to do the good without the bad, making it possible to try to develop non-addicting opiates.''
        In 1978, Dr. Kosterlitz, Dr. Snyder and Dr. Hughes shared the Albert Lasker Award for their work on the natural opiates and their receptors.
        Hans Walter Kosterlitz was born in Berlin, Germany, on April 27, 1903. He earned his M.D. degree at the University of Berlin in 1929. He fled Germany in the mid-1930's because of the Nazis, Dr. Snyder said, and wound up at the University of Aberdeen in northern Scotland, where he  earned a Ph.D. in 1936 and a D.Sc. degree in 1944, and spent the rest of his career.
        He was a member of the Royal Society and was a foreign associate member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Kosterlitz is survived by his wife, Hannah, of Aberdeen; his son, Michael, of Providence, R.I., and three grandchildren.
      