
        Judge Charles S. House, a Republican who was minority leader in the Connecticut State Senate and Chief Justice of Connecticut's highest court, died on Friday at his home in Manchester, Conn. A native and lifelong resident of Manchester, he was 88.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Judge House became the 29th Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court in 1971 and retired in 1978, when he reached mandatory retirement age. Of the many opinions he rendered, the best known is a 1977 ruling that struck down the state's public-school financing system.
        Judge House backed up a trial judge and deemed the system unconstitutional because it relied too heavily on local property taxes. Writing for the 4-to-1 majority with his usual precision, he held that the arrangement denied equal opportunity to students from poorer districts and must be made more equitable.
        He based the opinion in Horton v. Meskill (after Gov. Thomas J. Meskill) on the wide disparity of wealth in Connecticut. It referred to the contrast between some of the country's richest sections, in suburban Fairfield County, and others counted among the poorest in the Northeast.
        Judge House regarded the decision as a highlight of his career, along with his role as an Eisenhower delegate to the 1952 Republican National Convention and a legal adviser to Gov. John Davis Lodge. After he retired as Chief Justice in 1978, the court appointed him a state referee, a court officer's position he filled for 12 more years.
        He was a descendant of William House, who settled in Glastonbury, Conn., in 1660. His family operated the House & Hale department store on Main Street in Manchester, and Charles House worked summers as a sales clerk while attending school. He graduated from Harvard College, and then from Harvard Law School in 1933.
        He went into practice in Manchester, where he was also chairman of the Board of Education. He was a state representative and senator before Governor Lodge appointed him to the bench in 1953 as a Superior Court judge. He rose to the Supreme Court two years later. He was also a past president of the National Conference of Chief Justices.
        Judge House is survived by his wife of 58 years, Virginia Brown House; two daughters, Dr. Carolyn Simmons of Wilmington, N.C., and Dr. Elizabeth House-Eubank of Denver; a son, Dr. Arthur House of Greenwich, Conn.; a sister, Laura Geis of Niantic, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
      