
        Clarke Brinckerhoff, a Connecticut lawyer who, exasperated by the lack of adequate public services for his daughter, founded the state's first parent advocacy group for the retarded, died on Nov. 2 at the University of Connecticut Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in West Hartford.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Care for people with special needs became a lifelong avocation for Mr. Brinckerhoff and his wife, Inger Hansen Brinckerhoff, after the birth of their daughter. Convinced that no adequate public assistance was available, they gathered other, similarly affected parents in their living room to see how they could help one another, starting with baby-sitting.
        The offshoot was the Hartford Association for Retarded Children, founded in 1951. Mr. Brinckerhoff was its first president.
        He headed a grass-roots campaign  to draw attention to the plight of children given short shrift in a school system ill equipped to cope with them. As the children grew to adulthood, the organization adapted and grew into what is now the Greater Hartford Association for Retarded Citizens.
        The Hartford group also banded together statewide as local groups sprouted elsewhere. Mr. Brinckerhoff, a founder of the Connecticut Association of Retarded Citizens, also served as the first president of the umbrella organization.
        He remained an active advocate for the Litchfield Association of Retarded Citizens in Torrington. His daughter, Christen Brinckerhoff, lives in one of the organization's group homes.
        He also was a mainstay of the Hartford Foundation for Public Giving and a past board president of Big Brothers and Big Sisters.
        He was a graduate of Cornell University and the University of Connecticut School of Law. In 1952, he joined the Veeder-Root Company, makers of environmental leak detectors and underground-tank monitoring systems, headquartered in Simsbury. He was named corporate secretary in 1962 and retired from that position in 1982.
        Besides his daughter, of Harwington, Mr. Brinckerhoff is survived by a son, Peter C., of Springfield, Ill.; a brother, Herbert C., of Ridgewood, N.J.; a sister, Nancy Hawes of Alexandria, Va., and three grandchildren. His wife of 50 years died in 1992.
      