
        Milton C. Mumford, chairman of the Lever Brothers consumer products empire in the 1960's, died Saturday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 83.
        He died several days after a stroke, said John T. Gould Jr., a spokesman for Lever Brothers, the United States subsidiary of Unilever, the British-Dutch conglomerate.
        Mr. Mumford presided over Lever Brothers in a boisterous period of consumer-products marketing, as the company aggressively promoted such brands as Lux and Lifebuoy soap, Wisk and Rinso detergent, and Pepsodent and Close-up toothpaste. By the time he retired, the company was beginning to confront the burgeoning consumer movement, which would begin to question the effectiveness of manufacturers' claims for products. And Lever Brothers was among the companies facing increased regulation of detergents containing phosphates, which were held to increase water pollution.
        Mr. Mumford started his career at Marshall Field & Company in Chicago in 1935, after graduating from the University of Illinois. During World War II, he served as a commander in the Navy, serving as special assistant to the chief of personnel on management and organizational problems. In 1950, Mr. Mumford became general manager of Marshal Field's Fieldcrest Mills subsidiary.
        In 1954, Mr. Mumford joined Lever Brothers as a vice president, shortly Marshall Field sold Fieldcrest to an investor group. He became president and chief executive of Lever Brothers in 1959 and chairman in 1964. He retired as chairman in 1971, but remained a director until 1983.
        Mr. Mumford was a founder of the New Yorker Club in 1971, a luncheon club created for government figures and executives of all races and religions.
        Mr. Mumford served as director of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, the Crown Zellerbach Corporation, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Consolidated Edison of New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothea, also of Pebble Beach; a son, Christopher of Mill Valley, Calif., and a daughter, Letitia Vollenweider of Zurich.
      