
        Marcel Carne, the French movie director whose 1945 classic, ''Les Enfants du Paradis,'' became one of the most loved and admired films of all time, died today at a hospital in the Paris suburb of Clamart. He was 90.
        Mr. Carne, whose best work was done between the mid-1930's and the late 1950's, will also be remembered for the ''poetic realism'' of such prewar films as ''Drole de Drame,'' ''Le Quai des Brumes,'' ''Hotel du Nord'' and ''Le Jour Se Leve''; his wartime hit, ''Les Visiteurs du Soir,'' and his postwar films, ''Les Portes de la Nuit'' and ''Les Tricheurs.'' He worked with many of France's leading actors and actresses, including Jean Gabin, Michele Morgan, Michel Simon, Jean-Louis Barrault, Yves Montand, Arletty and Jean-Paul Belmondo.
        But he and other prewar directors known for their carefully scripted and technically meticulous studio-backed films were swept aside by the rebellious young ''auteurs'' of the New Wave film movement of the 1960's. Mr. Carne outlived his contemporaries, but he was gradually reduced to a peripheral figure on the French movie scene.
        Even on the 50th anniversary of the release of ''Les Enfants du Paradis'' in 1995, he did not receive the tributes that he felt he deserved and that he often enjoyed abroad. In fact, unusually for a country where the movie director is an all-powerful figure, French film historians often give more credit for the success of Mr. Carne's early films to their screenwriter, Jacques Prevert, than to their director.
        His 90th birthday two months ago also went largely unnoticed in the Paris press, although he was given a party by the owner of the still-operating Hotel du Nord in the city's 10th arrondissement. Today, though, he was officially remembered. President Jacques Chirac thanked Mr. Carne ''for having made us dream so much.'' The Culture Minister, Philippe Douste-Blazy, called him ''a major figure of French cinema.''
        ''Les Enfants du Paradis'' always had its own place in movie history. The three-and-a-quarter-hour film, starring Barrault, Arletty and Pierre Renoir, is based on the life of the 19th-century mime Jean-Baptiste Deburau. Set in the world of theater, it is a story about love, illusions and disappointment.
        A short, feisty bachelor, Mr. Carne never lost interest in movies and, to the last, was hopeful of returning to the director's chair. After he made his last film, ''The Bible,'' in 1977, however, only once, in 1992, did he find a producer willing to back him. The project ended in failure. Ten days into shooting his adaptation of Guy de Maupassant's novel ''Mouche,'' the director fell ill, and financing was withdrawn.
        In an interview in December 1994, Mr. Carne spoke bitterly of being ''destroyed'' by such New Wave directors as Francois Truffaut and of being ostracized by France's big-spending cultural establishment, which, he said, had refused to finance his movie projects while aiding ''mediocre'' directors. In many ways, though, he simply outlived his time.
        Mr. Carne was born in Paris on Aug. 18, 1906. His father was a cabinetmaker, but from an early age the young Marcel was drawn to cinema. He first entered the industry as a film critic when he was in his 20's, rising to the post of chief editor of a movie weekly, Hebdo-Films. At the same time, he found work as a camera assistant and then, most crucially, as assistant director to the legendary Rene Clair on the movie ''Sous les Toits de Paris'' in 1930.
        In the early 1930's, Mr. Carne also worked on several movies as an assistant to the Belgian director Jacques Feyder and branched out on his own by making short films and advertising spots to be shown in movie theaters. It was thanks to Mr. Feyder that in 1936 he was able to direct his first feature film, ''Jenny,'' with Mr. Feyder's wife, Francoise Rosay, in the title role.
        Mr. Carne's big break, though, came the following year when Mr. Prevert, already a respected poet and writer, wrote the screenplay for his second film, ''Drole de Drame.'' The two men worked frequently together over the next two decades, producing a succession of hit movies, including ''Le Quai des Brumes,'' ''Le Jour Se Leve,'' ''Les Visiteurs du Soir,'' ''Les Portes de la Nuit'' and ''Les Enfants du Paradis.''
        In ''The Dictionary of Cinema,'' published in France in 1995, the film historian Jean Tulard raises the often debated question of whether Mr. Prevert's screenplays were the main reason for the success of these films. ''Perhaps it is a false question,'' he wrote. ''No one doubts the quality of Prevert's screenplays, but it must be recognized that Carne translated them admirably into images.''
        Interestingly, Mr. Carne's crucial role was indirectly highlighted when the Royal Shakespeare Company in London presented Simon Callow's stage adaptation of ''Les Enfants du Paradis'' this year. ''Prevert's script is actually rather ponderous and outdated,'' John Peters wrote in The Sunday Times of London. ''What makes Carne's film a masterpiece is its miraculous fluidity and its bruising, dreamlike sincerity.''
        Still, in the view of Mr. Tulard, the steady ''decline'' of Mr. Carne's work after he stopped collaborating with Mr. Prevert in the late 1940's was due largely to ''the weakness of the screenplays.'' Mr. Carne helped write and adapted many of his later films, but of these only ''Les Tricheurs,'' starring Mr. Belmondo, was considered on a par with his earlier work.
        At the time, ''Les Enfants du Paradis'' was the most expensive French film ever made. The story of its filming is almost as gripping as the movie itself. Unlike Rene Clair, Jean Renoir and several other French directors who went into exile in World War II, Mr. Carne stayed in France during the German occupation. During his interview in 1994, he said that he did not leave for the United States or Britain because he did not speak English and did not join the Resistance because he feared violence.
        From 1940, the French movie industry was largely controlled by Alfred Greven, a German impresario who set up Continental Films. Mr. Carne said that he refused to make propaganda films and insisted that ''Les Visiteurs du Soir,'' made in 1942, was a success because French audiences understood that it was an allegory for a France that was surviving despite its humiliation.
        With backing from Continental Films, Mr. Carne then began shooting ''Les Enfants du Paradis'' in Nice in August 1943, but filming was almost immediately halted when Allied troops landed in Sicily and German forces occupied areas of southern France previously governed by the collaborationist Vichy regime. Filming resumed in Paris in November 1943 and later moved back to Nice, with German officers now frequently on the set.
        Mr. Carne said his set designer, Alexander Trauner, and the composer of the score, Joseph Kosma, were Jews, but he disguised their involvement. He said, however, that he would never forget the day that French police officers working for the Gestapo arrested a French extra during shooting. The man was never seen again. ''I will relive that scene for the rest of my days,'' he said.
        Although the film was ready for release before the liberation of France in the summer of 1944, Mr. Carne said he held it back, claiming that he was still editing it. In the end, it was released in March 1945 and was immediately a hit. Since then, it has continued to grow in stature, with French critics even choosing it as the best film ever made in a 1971 poll. And, to this day, the movie is shown every Saturday at the Theatre du Ranelagh in Paris's 16th arrondissement.
      