
        Eileen C. Dugan, a Brooklyn Democrat who was elected to her ninth term in the New York State Assembly only on Tuesday, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center. Ms. Dugan, who lived in Carroll Gardens, was 51.
        The cause was breast cancer, according to her family.
        Gov. George E. Pataki, who served in the Assembly with Ms. Dugan, ordered state flags to be flown at half-staff in her memory.
        Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party. This year, despite a determined Republican effort, Democrats won an additional seat in the Assembly and will hold 96 of its 150 seats when the new session begins in January.
        Ms. Dugan, who won her most recent election with 70 percent of the vote as the candidate of the Democratic and Liberal parties, represented the 52d District, which includes not only Carroll Gardens, but also Bay Ridge, Cobble Hill, Red Hook, Sunset Park, Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill.
        The district includes much of the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, an area Ms. Dugan was dedicated to revitalizing through the establishment of open space and park land and the introduction of new business. She sponsored legislation that committed funds for studies to accomplish these ends.
        At the time of her death, Ms. Dugan was chairwoman of the Assembly's Committee on Economic Development, Job Creation and Industry and a member of the Governmental Employees Committee, the Labor Committee, the Rules Committee and the Ways and Means Committee.
        In 1985, five years after she was first elected to the Assembly, Ms. Dugan became the first female member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, which writes the budget.
        As chairwoman of the Committee on Economic Development, she was successful in establishing economic development zones in deteriorating neighborhoods.
        As a member of the Subcommittee on Displaced Homemakers, she was active in the passage of legislation to commit funds for training divorced or battered women in marketable skills at centers throughout the state.
        Ms. Dugan was born in Carroll Gardens and attended the Grace Institute in Manhattan. She began her career in government in 1974 as a special assistant to the New York City Comptroller .
        She is survived by her sister, Patricia Curtin of Sound Beach, L.I., and two brothers, Brian, of Holbrook, L.I., and Brendan, of Brooklyn.
      