
        George Klebnikov, a pioneer of simultaneous language interpretation at the Nuremberg trials who helped introduce the art to the United Nations and later became chief of interpretation services there, died yesterday in Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        His wife, Sarah, said the cause was complications of a stroke.
        The son of a former Russian cavalry officer who fled the country after the Communist Revolution and eventually settled in France, Mr. Klebnikov -- who was born in what is now Gdansk, Poland -- acquired a facility for languages early.
        He learned Russian from his parents, picked up German from a nursemaid, became fluent in French when the family moved to Paris while he was still a child and mastered English during a summer he spent in England when he was 11. He later added Spanish, Portuguese and Italian to his repertory.
        He was a college student in Paris after World War II when he was recruited by the Americans as an interpreter at the war crimes trials in Nuremberg, where simultaneous interpretation first replaced the traditional and time-consuming system of sequential interpretations.
        Although an elaborate closed-circuit telephone system using microphones and headsets made simultaneous interpretation technically feasible, the rapid-fire linguistic skills of Mr. Klebnikov and his colleagues  made the new system a success. They so streamlined the proceedings, Mr. Klebnikov liked to point out, that Hermann Goring complained that the simultaneous interpretations were shortening his life.
        Mr. Klebnikov and a few of his Nuremberg colleagues were brought to New York in 1946 to demonstrate the technique at the newly formed United Nations, but although simultaneous interpretation became a standard part of United Nations deliberations from then on, diplomats were so suspicious of the new system that it was several years before the redundant sequential interpretation was phased out.
        In a field in which an interpreter always translates into his main, or home, language, Mr. Klebnikov was a rarity at the United Nations -- an interpreter with two home languages, French and English. But he did most of his work translating French or Russian into English.
        As a result, Americans who followed United Nations debates during the height of the Cold War often heard the two-hour diatribes of the chief Soviet delegate, Andrei Vishinsky, in Mr. Klebnikov's cultured voice.
        Along the way he became a master in cross-linguistic invective, which often requires, rather than word-for-word interpretation of national metaphors that would be meaningless in another language, the substitution of one idiomatic phrase for another. Ever alert to the subtle gradations of the languages of anger and sarcasm, Mr. Klebnikov, who believed that acting training helped make the well-rounded interpreter, took pride in his ability to find an English phrase that matched the precise degree of invective of the original.
        Mr. Klebnikov, who became an American citizen and obtained master's and doctorate degrees in French from Columbia University, also provided interpretation for a variety of international gatherings, including the 1954 meetings in Geneva that led to the French withdrawal from Vietnam and the secretive Dartmouth Conferences that brought American and Soviet public figures together for informal exchanges.
        In addition to his work as an interpreter, Mr. Klebnikov took occasional diplomatic assignments and was a member of the United Nations observation team in Korea at the time of the North Korean invasion of South Korea in 1950.
        Mr. Klebnikov, who had the barest trace of a foreign accent in English but spoke Russian, German and French like a native, enjoyed his work so much that he continued to accept free-lance assignments after his mandatory retirement in 1983 after a decade as a United Nations Director, Chief of Interpretation Service of the United Nations.
        He also relished using his language skills in his private life, always ordering in French at French restaurants, for example, and ruing the day the old Russian Tea Room stopped employing Russian-born waiters.
        A man who looked, acted and ate as well as sounded like a diplomat, Mr. Klebnikov took special pains with his wardrobe -- so much so that in a good-natured roast at the time of his retirement, he was portrayed by his colleagues as swimming away from the invading North Korean troops while holding aloft his prized collection of Hermes ties.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Klebnikov is survived by four children from a previous marriage, three sons, Michael, Peter and Paul; and a daughter, Anna Brinsmade; all of New York; and three grandsons.
      