
        Arch Patton, one of the best-known management consultants of the post-World War II era, died on Nov. 23 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Bronxville.
        Mr. Patton, a retired director of McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm, developed the first multi-industry survey of how top executives were compensated. Through his survey, which appeared annually in The Harvard Business Review for more than a decade after it was introduced in 1951, many executives learned for the first time how their compensation compared with that of colleagues in their industries.
        Mr. Patton used the survey to help companies develop bonus plans and stock option programs to improve executive performance. He published a book on the subject, ''Men, Money and Motivation,'' in 1961.
        Later, the compensation survey was increasingly criticized as a major contributor to skyrocketing executive pay. In the mid-1980's, a reporter asked Mr. Patton how he felt about the effect the survey appeared to be having on executive compensation. ''Guilty,'' he replied.
        He said that managers had badly abused his survey and that ''this resulted largely from management assuming that all of its executives were above-average performers,''  while the survey included a wide range of executives.
        In addition to his work as a consultant at McKinsey & Company from 1951 until his retirement as a director in 1974, Mr. Patton was a speaker and author, writing about 75 articles for magazines like Fortune, Business Week and Financial Executive. Twenty-six of his articles appeared in The Harvard Business Review over four decades, more than by any other single writer.
        After his retirement he was chairman of a Presidential commission on legislative and judicial and executive branch salaries in 1973.
        Mr. Patton was born in New York City. He graduated from Colgate University and Harvard Business School.
        His wife, Harriet, died in July. He is survived by a daughter, Leslie Silloway of Wilmington, N.C., and three grandsons.
      