
        W. Richard Goodwin, a former president and chief executive of the Johns Manville Corporation, died on Oct. 24 in Denver, where he had lived for many years. He was 72.
        He died of a stroke, said his son, Douglas Goodwin.
        Known for his flamboyant style, Mr. Goodwin brought an atypical background to the executive suite.
        After serving in the Army in World War II, William Richard Goodwin received bachelor's and master's degrees from Reed College in Portland, Ore., and in 1955 earned a doctorate in experimental psychology from Stanford.
        For the next decade he worked for the Rand Corporation and the Systems Development Corporation helping to develop a large computer-based control system for the Strategic Air Command.
        After a few years as a management consultant, he joined Johns Manville, one of his clients, in 1968 as vice president of corporate planning.
        A little over a year later he was named president and chief executive. He resigned at age 52 in 1976. In accepting his resignation, Manville's board cited differences ''related to the style of management'' rather than conflict over direction of the company.
        It was a clash many in the financial community knew would inevitably occur.
        ''Where the directors wore three-piece Brooks Brothers suits and had short hair,'' one analyst said at the time, ''Goodwin wore flashy sports clothes and let his hair grow.''
        Manville's board of directors was also reportedly displeased when Mr. Goodwin spearheaded a bitter, public fight to bring the Olympic Games to Denver in 1972. The effort ultimately failed in a Colorado referendum.
        Still, in Mr. Goodwin's tenure, Johns Manville's sales more than doubled, to $1.1 billion. The company, a manufacturer of asbestos fiber, changed its name to the Manville Corporation in 1980. It filed for bankruptcy protection in 1982, facing millions of dollars in claims over asbestos-related health problems. It is now called the Schuller Corporation of Denver.
        In addition to his son, Douglas, of Denver, Mr. Goodwin is survived by a sister, Barbara Wood, of Vancouver, Wash., and a daughter, Barbara Goodwin of Menlo Park, Calif.
      