
        Bernard Lafferty, the butler who became a millionaire after the death of Doris Duke, the lonely tobacco heiress he had befriended, died in Los Angeles yesterday. He was 51.
        Mr. Lafferty was found dead in bed in his home in the affluent Bel Air section of western Los Angeles, said Scott Carrier, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Coroner's office. He said he did not know who discovered the body, but that there were no signs of foul play.
        While the cause of death was not immediately clear, Mr. Lafferty had acknowledged severe problems with alcohol and was known to have taken a variety of medications for various health problems.
        Mr. Lafferty played a major role  in the life and death of Miss Duke, heiress to the American Tobacco Company fortune. She died at 80 in her Beverly Hills mansion on Oct. 28, 1993, leaving an estate estimated at more than $1.2 billion.
        The Irish-born Mr. Lafferty, whose lack of formal education left him semiliterate but did not blunt his taste for the finer things, became a figure of scorn, suspicion and envy when it was revealed that Miss Duke had left him $5 million and made him a co-executor of her estate for  $500,000 a year for life.
        Other than an adopted daughter, Chandi Heffner Duke, whom she disinherited two years before her death, Miss Duke had no living immediate relatives and left the bulk of her fortune to charities.
        One of Miss Duke's former doctors, Harry B. Demopoulos, who had been named executor in a previous will, and several of her former employees challenged Miss Duke's last will. They argued that Mr. Lafferty and his lawyers had cajoled a sick, sedated old woman into giving him control of her estate.
        Even more sensational accusations were made by a deathbed nurse, Tammy Payette, who contended that Mr. Lafferty and a prominent Beverly Hills physician, Dr. Charles Kivowitz, had conspired to hasten Miss Duke's death with morphine and Demerol.
        After an investigation, the Los Angeles District Attorney's office announced that it had found ''no credible evidence'' to support the accusations.
        But before the District Attorney's office issued its report, and before the final disposition of Miss Duke's will, there were accounts of a profligate life style by Mr. Lafferty.
        Keeping his reserve while hearing his name bandied about, usually in unflattering terms, the ponytailed butler seemed an unimposing man in an ill-fitting suit as he watched from a corner of the courtroom while highly paid lawyers argued abstruse points of law.
        Much of the litigation was before Surrogate Eve M. Preminger in Manhattan. She commissioned her own inquiry into Miss Duke's death, and after an investigator told her in April 1995 that he thought Miss Duke's death had been hastened, the surrogate froze payments to Mr. Lafferty's lawyers and ordered a round of hearings.
        Events that came to light in court and in court papers went from humorous to odd to surreal.
        It was asserted that not only was Mr. Lafferty a binge-drinking alcoholic, but he also took ''three sleeping medications, seven antidepressants, three antipsychotics and six anti-anxiety medicines,'' one report said.
        ''Many simultaneously,'' the report said.
        Several years ago, Mr. Lafferty wrecked one of Miss Duke's cars, so he bought a new Cadillac. He also spent $1,769 to reopen a firing range that had fallen into disuse on her property.
        An expense report said that ''to provide companionship,'' two miniature horses were bought. They were to be companions for a camel at the Duke estate.
        There were reports that, after Miss Duke's death, he spent more than $1 million on himself, running up credit-card bills of nearly $155,000 at luxury stores, traveling at whim, spending $60,000 to renovate Miss Duke's old bedroom for himself. He also borrowed more than $825,000 from the U.S. Trust Company, the estate's co-executor, apparently without having to pay interest.
        In 1995, Chandi Heffner Duke, the disinherited adopted daughter, reached a $65 million settlement with Mr. Lafferty and the estate. And last May, Surrogate Preminger accepted Miss Duke's last will, ending two and a half years of litigation and accusation.
        The surrogate approved the creation of a seven-member board to oversee the new Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, which will support the arts, environmental efforts, education and other causes.
        Surrogate Preminger had rejected earlier settlements because she did not want Mr. Lafferty to have so much control. In May, he agreed to accept a flat payment of $4.5 million and $500,000 a year for life and to surrender his post as estate co-executor and his membership on the foundation.
        Mr. Lafferty had retained a public relations firm, which would recite these sparse facts: Born in County Donegal, Ireland, in 1945, orphaned as a teen-ager, came to the United States about 25 years ago. The firm said Mr. Lafferty worked in hotels and restaurants and held various jobs in entertainment.
        At least one person deeply familiar with the long, troubled life of the tobacco heiress thought that Mr. Lafferty was good for her.
        ''He was not in it for the money,'' Stephanie Mansfield, author of ''The Richest Girl in the World'' (G. P. Putnam's Sons), a biography of Miss Duke, said in a 1994 interview. ''Bernard didn't have a life beyond Doris, and she showed a side of herself to him that she showed to few others, that was warm, funny and loving.''
        Bob Magoon, one of Miss Duke's neighbors in Hawaii, recalled in an interview a few years ago how Mr. Lafferty occasionally donned a comical butler's uniform replete with absurd-looking medals.
        ''We'd laugh and laugh,'' Mr. Magoon said. ''He's built of joy.''
      