
        The call crackled over the voice pager at about 8 P.M. on Sept. 11: ''Two down, GSW!'' George Washington Bridge? The ambulance corps volunteer, accustomed to treating the bee stings and broken legs of suburban Chappaqua, N.Y., was puzzled. Then he raced out of his well-appointed home, suddenly realizing: gunshot wound.
        As the crew's ambulance pulled up to an address in nearby Mount Pleasant, the volunteer, Peter Leavitt, saw rivulets of blood coursing down the driveway. Patient No. 1: young female, bullet through the chest, bullet through the back of the head, pupils fixed, dilated. Patient No. 2: older male, six bullet wounds. Still talking? O.K., let's scoop and run.
        In the careering ambulance, the volunteer and a paramedic tried to stanch the bleeding.
        ''I think it was Peter who asked the patient, 'Who shot you?' '' the driver, Andrew Freundlich, recalled. ''And the patient named a name.'' Then the dying man lost consciousness.
        For the shaken Mr. Leavitt, who is an emergency medical technician, the episode represented two firsts. It was his first gunshot wound. And for the first time, the volunteer, who is formally known at his day job as Acting Justice Peter M. Leavitt of State Supreme Court in Westchester County, had just become a witness in a double homicide case.
        The Westchester County District Attorney, Jeanine F. Pirro, has since charged Joseph Rukaj with second-degree murder in the shooting deaths of Mr. Rukaj's pregnant cousin and her father-in-law. Through his lawyer, Jay Goldberg, Mr. Rukaj, who was also shot and left the scene, is claiming self-defense. Ms. Pirro said that despite recent tension between her office and Justice Leavitt -- last winter he sentenced a Westchester killer to five years' probation -- prosecutors would treat the judge much like any other witness.
        For his part, Justice Leavitt said he had avoided learning any details of the Rukaj investigation. ''As a judge, I can't comment on a pending case, and as an E.M.T. I can't divulge patient confidentiality,'' he said the other day in his White Plains chambers, a distinguished-enough setting but for the plastic golf putting cup tucked under a side table and a startlingly lifelike severed human forearm emerging from under his upholstered sofa (a Halloween touch).
        He seemed wistful about having to remain buttoned-up about the matter, which has been assigned to another judge. What is the point of courting adventure if you cannot dine out on the story afterward?
        For Justice Leavitt's is not the quiet, contemplative life, on the bench or off. Four years ago, he took the 130-hour E.M.T. training course and now does half-a-dozen 7-P.M.-to-7-A.M. shifts a month. That replaces his original sideline as a volunteer Chappaqua firefighter, which was cut short after a decade when he was hospitalized for smoke inhalation from a house fire and developed acute smoke sensitivity.
        Clearly, the man likes drama and rescue, as well as the requisite up-to-date gear -- he flipped excitedly through specialty catalogues for emergency medical technicians, to show a photo of his favorite Life Hammer, which he uses to break car windows and cut seat belts. When asked to name his favorite among the cops-and-docs programs on television, his blue eyes turned dreamy as he replied, ''Rescue 911.''
        He is also drawn to sirens, revolving lights and speed. So it follows that the judge, 58, also rides a motorcycle, a big Honda Pacific Coast.
        One thing common to being a judge and an E.M.T.: he certainly has no compunction about making decisions that can drastically affect a person's life.
        ''E.M.T.'s are control nuts,'' he said. Recalling a motor vehicle accident, he continued, ''I've been at an M.V.A. where a child has been severely injured but I've had to treat the adult first, knowing the adult is more likely to survive.''
        Last February, wearing his black robe rather than his bright yellow E.M.T. jacket, he made a critical decision about a defendant's future, prompting criticism whose reverberations are still being felt. He presided over the trial of Hopeton Minott, who in 1994 became the first student to kill another at a Westchester County high school.
        Mr. Minott, then 17, and Shebuel Jackson, a star center fielder on Mount Vernon High School's baseball team, had already scuffled when the two clashed again in a school hallway, with Mr. Jackson accompanied by five friends. One attacker pulled a knife, slashing Mr. Minott above the eye and in the hand before Mr. Minott grabbed the weapon, took several paces after Mr. Jackson and  stabbed him three times, fatally.
        Mr. Minott, who claimed self-defense, was indicted on a charge of second-degree murder. The jury convicted him of the lesser crime of manslaughter.
        Justice Leavitt granted Mr. Minott youthful offender status, which effectively sealed his conviction, and sentenced him to five years' probation. If the judge had sentenced him as an adult, Mr. Minott could have received a maximum of 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison.
        Ms. Pirro, the District Attorney, was furious. ''What is the message we're sending our young people?'' she said. '' 'You can go into our schools with a weapon, kill and walk.' ''
        The judge was disparaged in editorials, with The Daily News including him in its ''rogues gallery of junk judges.''
        Justice Leavitt explained his sentence, then and now, by pointing out that 10 of 12 jurors signed a letter asking him to be merciful in sentencing. Mr. Minott had a clean record, he noted. ''I'd do what I did again,'' he said. ''He was the victim, not the attacker.''
        The case may not be over. Before the judge sentenced Mr. Minott, the youth was arrested for participating in the holdup of a Brooklyn diner. Justice Leavitt remarked that if Mr. Minott was convicted of the crime, he would reconsider his sentence.
        On Oct. 16, Mr. Minott was sentenced in Brooklyn to one-and-a-half to three years in prison after pleading guilty to attempted criminal possession of a weapon.
        Right now, things are at a frosty standoff: two weeks ago, the Department of Probation wrote the judge, asking about Mr. Minott, and on Tuesday, Ms. Pirro sent the judge a terse letter saying it was now up to him to make the next move concerning the youth's sentence.
        Justice Leavitt did not seem perturbed. ''I can't reach out from the bench,'' he said. ''The District Attorney has to first make a motion.''
        But open warfare has not yet been declared, because prosecutors, as well as defense lawyers, must depend on judges, in the peculiar, at times pernicious symbiosis that is the criminal justice system. Justice Leavitt is now presiding over one of the District Attorney's high-profile cases, the prosecution of Richard D. DiGuglielmo, a white off-duty police officer who shot a black man who parked in front of the officer's father's delicatessen in what has been described as a bias incident.
        And if Mr. Rukaj is indicted and the case goes to trial, prosecutors may well have to call Justice Leavitt to testify. ''I imagine the trial attorneys will question me differently than they would an ordinary witness,'' the judge said.
        Ms. Pirro would give no corner. ''My trial attorneys are very savvy and well seasoned and are not intimidated by any witness, whether they are in a robe, a uniform, or prison garb,'' she said stiffly.
        Westchester County defense lawyers characterize the judge, who was elected to the bench as a Republican in 1993, as independent minded, and not one they necessarily consider to be generous at sentencing. ''He can be harsher on drunk-driving cases than other judges because of his ambulance experience,'' said Rebecca Schenk, a Legal Aid lawyer.
        Justice Leavitt does not disagree; he has recused himself from drunken-driving cases when he was in the ambulance at the scene. He concurs that his experiences off the bench do influence the perspective he brings to some crimes. ''You watch a child clutching a favorite blanket while their house is burning and you hear an arson case differently,'' he said.
        ''I often ask prosecutors: have you notified the victims that they can speak at sentencing?'' he said. ''I'd like to bring every prosecutor to the E.R. and say, 'This is a victim, this is what they look like -- you can't understand what they've suffered unless you see them.' ''
        Justice Leavitt, who was born in Brooklyn, began his legal career as a prosecutor, first in Brooklyn and later in Westchester. When he decided to go into private practice, he was advised that one way to become known in Chappaqua, where he had moved with his wife and daughters, was to start volunteering.
        Over the years, he not only established a real estate and divorce practice, but also became a volunteer firefighter and the part-time town justice of New Castle, in which Chappaqua is a hamlet.
        ''If you enjoy doing something, you'll do it well,'' he said. ''If you want to do something, you'll find the time.''
        Justice Leavitt laid the credit for his commitment to the law and public service at the feet of his father, Irving, who died in 1993, shortly after his son's swearing-in as an elected Westchester County Court judge. Mr. Leavitt was a lawyer who also had a vigorous second life in civic associations and charities.
        But Justice Leavitt described his father as a man of infinite restraint and patience, words that just did not seem to fit the jack rabbit energy of the judge himself.
        Earlier in the morning, at the conclusion of a routine court session, the judge was approached by an elderly woman, white-haired, slight and just about reaching his elbow.
        ''How did you like it today, Mother?'' he said apprehensively.
        ''Bo-ring!'' hooted the 73-pound, 88-year-old Jennie Leavitt.
        Mrs. Leavitt suggested that a visitor return for a livelier court session. ''I like it much better when Peter does trials,'' she said. Asked why, she replied by shadow-boxing, bobbing and weaving in her rainbow-colored embroidered Chinese-style slippers. ''I'm Hungarian, you know.''
        And at that moment, she was perhaps the only person in Westchester who could make her gavel-banging, Life Hammer-wielding, motorcycle-riding son seem sedate by comparison.
        Dispensing Justice, Healing Wounds
      