
        Babrak Karmal, the Soviet-backed Communist who led Afghanistan's Government from from 1979 until he resigned in 1986, died on Sunday at the Kremlin hospital in Moscow, the Interfax news agency in Moscow reported yesterday. He was 67 and had spent most of his time after he stepped down living quietly in Russia, under Soviet pressure.
        The cause was liver cancer, and he had been in declining health for the past year, the brief dispatch said.
        An earlier report of Mr. Karmal's death was broadcast on Tuesday by Radio Voice of Sharia, a station in Kabul, Afghanistan's capital, that is controlled by the Taliban, a militant Islamic group that holds sway in two-thirds of the country.
        ''Babrak Karmal committed all kinds of crimes during his illegitimate rule,'' the station said. ''God inflicted on him various kinds of hardship and pain. Eventually he died of cancer in a hospital belonging to his paymasters, the Russians.''
        Mr. Karmal was installed as Afghanistan's ruler in December 1979 after the Soviet Army invaded his poor and rugged homeland to end growing turmoil there. The Soviets asserted that they were aiding the Afghan Government in fighting an armed insurgency. The invaders killed the President at that time, Hafizullah Amin, who had come to power in a coup earlier in 1979. A civil war had begun in 1978.
        The new Karmal Government and the Soviet troops in Afghanistan were swiftly and then doggedly opposed by Islamic insurgents, who were backed by the United States, China and Saudi Arabia. The conflict dragged on and settled into a standoff, although the Soviet force, estimated at first at 30,000, grew to number 120,000. Though better armed and in control of the air, the Soviets were unable to defeat the rebels.
        With the passage of time, Moscow began to voice public criticism of Mr. Karmal, contending that he was at fault for the rebels' managing to continue their struggle, and for his country's continuing poverty. Finally, in November 1986, he stepped down, saying he had heart trouble. The Soviet contingent pulled out of Afghanistan in 1989.
        Mr. Karmal was succeeded by Najibullah, who fell from power in 1992, when Islamic insurgents ousted the Communist Government. Mr. Najibullah took refuge at the United Nations headquarters in the capital until September, when Taliban forces seized Kabul, dragged him out of the United Nations building and hanged him.
        Mr. Karmal, son of an Afghan Army general, was born in 1929. He attended a German-language secondary school in Kabul and studied law and political science at Kabul University, where he was caught up in Marxist politics.
        These activities led to his arrest at the age of 20, and his imprisonment for five years. After being freed he earned a law degree, spent a year in the Afghan Army and went on to be an official of the Planning Ministry of Afghanistan, which was then a constitutional monarchy.
        In 1965 the Khalq Party was established (khalq means ''the masses''), and it later became the pro-Communist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan. Mr. Karmal joined it at its founding, and when the party split early in the 1970's, he came to head a pro-Soviet wing that emerged.
        In 1965 he was also elected to a seat in the lower house of the National Assembly, where he soon became known as a fiery, powerful orator. He was re-elected once and retained his seat until the Assembly was done away with in the 1970's.
        In 1973 the monarch, King Zahir, was ousted by the military, and the country was proclaimed a republic. But a military junta seized power in 1978 and announced the creation of a new republic -- of which Mr. Karmal was briefly Vice President before becoming Ambassador to Czechoslovakia.
        After the Soviet invasion, he became concurrently President and Prime Minister, head of the armed forces and secretary general of the People's Democratic Party. On Jan. 2, 1980, in his first public appearance since gaining power, he called on the people of Afghanistan to ''come together and support our glorious revolution.''
        In his address, to Government leaders gathered in an old palace just outside Kabul, he declared, ''Resistance by the enemies of Afghanistan will be overcome by the forces of patriotism.'' His optimism proved to be unwarranted.
      