
        Vance Packard, a journalist turned social critic whose best-selling books -- ''The Hidden Persuaders,'' ''The Status Seekers'' and ''The Waste Makers'' -- warned Americans in the late 1950's about the excesses of advertising, social climbing and planned obsolescence, died yesterday at Martha's Vineyard Hospital. He was 82 and had homes in New Canaan, Conn., and Martha's Vineyard.,
        Mr. Packard was a highly successful popularizer of serious ideas raised by America's postwar prosperity and the explosion of consumerism. He was skilled as well in  coining titles for his books that endured in the national vocabulary. His vision of an America beset by manipulative forces and dominated by vast  bureaucratic organizations struck a responsive chord with the public and regularly put him atop the best-seller lists.
        His work also helped lay the ground for the muckraking works of  the more turbulent 1960's, like Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring'' in 1962  and Ralph Nader's ''Unsafe at Any Speed'' in 1965.
        Mr. Packard first gained national attention with the publication in 1957 of ''The Hidden Persuaders,'' which exposed what he saw as the growing and not entirely benign influence of the nation's advertising industry.  Alarmed by new techniques that convinced people to run out and buy things, he detailed advertising's fascination with the school of consumer analysis known as motivational research.
        ''Many of us are being influenced and manipulated, far more than we realize, in the patterns of our everyday lives,'' he wrote. He compared motivational research to ''the chilling world of George Orwell and his Big Brother.''
        Mr. Packard emphasized the dangers of ''subliminal projection,'' in which, he said, messages were flashed so quickly on television or movie screens that consumers could not recall seeing or hearing them though they responded to them. In ''Hidden Persuaders'' he reports  that a New Jersey drive-in flashed the words ''eat popcorn'' on the movie screen for a split second to boost sales at its food stand. Marketing  executives disputed his account.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, A. C. Spectorsky called the book ''frightening, entertaining and thought-stimulating.'' The work  remained on The New York Times  best-seller list for a year. ''Hidden Persuaders'' became all the rage;  many readers claimed they were being subjected to subliminal advertising every time they noticed a glitch in their television reception.
        The advertising business hit back; its representatives took to public forums everywhere to declare that motivational research helped advertisers better serve the American people. To this day, leaders in the industry deny that subliminal devices have been used to sell products in the marketplace. They denounced Mr. Packard's book as ''malicious'' because in their view, it made them seem needlessly sinister.
        Mr. Packard did not anticipate the industry reaction, and he was stung by the attack on his work. But he became even more determined to take on other subjects about the nature of life in postwar America. He was of a generation of journalistic generalists, writers who were willing to address any number of topics, as long as they did the hard reporting that was needed.
        In his next book, ''The Status Seekers''(1959), Mr. Packard argued that ''under its gloss of prosperity,'' the nation was becoming more socially divided as Americans tried desperately ''to find new ways to draw lines that will separate the elect from the non-elect.''
        According to Daniel Horowitz, author of ''Vance Packard and American Social Criticism'' (1994), Mr. Packard blamed the consumer culture developed by capitalists for intensifying a striving for status and set out to debunk the notion that prosperity was helping to achieve the dream of a classless, egalitarian society.
        Mr. Horowitz said that although Mr. Packard borrowed many ideas from others, he ''went farther in asking his readers to question basic assumptions about the beneficence of the American society and economy.''
        In his third successive best seller,  ''The Waste Makers'' (1960), Mr. Packard asserted that American business was so determined to sell at full tilt that it was encouraging consumers to use up or prematurely discard whatever they purchased. He outlined the ways manufacturers and advertisers persuaded consumers to buy expensive goods they did not really need.
        The book set off a storm of criticism. Printers' Ink, a trade publication, declared that Mr. Packard's  work reviled ''an economic system which, for all its shortcomings,'' had given the United States ''the world's highest standard of living.''
        Ernest Dichter, viewed as a leading force in motivational research and a target of ''Hidden Persuaders,'' denounced Mr. Packard and other critics as ''morality hucksters,'' writers who collected their royalties and retreated ''to their Connecticut homes to cool off with a drink iced from a 1961 refrigerator engineered by the waste makers.''
        Over the next four decades Mr. Packard seemed to mellow a bit, writing books that were relatively hopeful in tone as well as some more  in keeping with his past work. Mr. Horowitz said Mr. Packard's ''optimism tempered his outrage'' and that by the mid-1960's he ''found himself outflanked on the left by the college students he helped bring to political awareness.'' Still, Mr. Packard continued to command a substantial audience for his work.
        ''The Pyramid Climbers'' (1962) examined corporations and their executives. Mr. Packard saw success in corporate life being attained by those who were loyal, adaptable, deferential and nonantagonizing. This was followed in 1964 by ''The Naked Society,'' which discussed how new technologies and new attitudes allowed a growing invasion of the privacy of the average American.
        Other books included ''The Sexual Wilderness'' (1968), which chronicled changes in relationships between men and women, especially the increase in premarital sex; ''A Nation of Strangers'' (1972), which argued that corporate transfers had created a rootless, lonely nation; ''Our Endangered Children'' (1983), which maintained that a national preoccupation with money, status, sex and power was reinforcing an inherent bias against children, and  ''Ultra Rich: How Much Is Too Much'' (1989), which explored the lives of 30 Americans whose average net worth was $330 million.
        Among those influenced by his ideas was Betty Friedan, who after hearing one of his lectures decided to turn some magazine articles she was planning into a book that eventually became ''The Feminine Mystique.''
        Vance Oakley Packard was born on May 22, 1914, in Granville Summit, Pa., one of three children of Philip J. and Mabel Case Packard. He was reared in State College, Pa., where his father worked for Penn State as a superintendent of the college farm.
        After his graduation from high school in 1932, he attended Penn State, majoring in English and working for the literary magazine. He  graduated in 1936 and got a $15-a-week job as a cub reporter for the Center Daily Times in State College. He won a scholarship to Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, where he earned a master's degree in 1937.
        Before writing his books, he worked for The Boston Daily Record and The Associated Press. In 1942 he left The Associated Press and joined  American magazine. When it folded in 1956, Mr. Packard moved over to Collier's and wrote articles until 1956, when it, too, ceased publication.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Matthews; a daughter, Cynthia Richmond of Annandale, Va.; two sons, Randall, a professor of history at Emory University in Atlanta, and Vance Philip of Thornhurst, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      