
        Dan Flavin, a leading Minimalist sculptor known for working with fluorescent lights, died on Friday at a hospital in Riverhead, L.I. He was 63 and had homes in Wainscott, L.I., and Garrison, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from  diabetes, said his son, Stephen.
        A rotund man whose cheerful, cherubic looks belied a personality both brilliant and caustic, Mr. Flavin belonged to a generation of artists that redefined American sculpture in the wake of the Abstract Expressionists, who had redefined American painting.
        His contemporaries included Lee Bontecou, John Chamberlain, Robert Irwin and Donald Judd, all of whom were inspired by the large scale, saturated colors and simple compositions of the Abstract Expressionists. With them, Mr. Flavin moved sculpture away from an implicitly figurative, usually Cubist vocabulary toward a new focus on space itself, often defined by daringly impersonal use of new industrial materials. He helped establish a tradition that continues to proliferate in various forms of installation and environmental art.
        The material Mr. Flavin fastened on, the fluorescent light fixture in its many colors and lengths, was at once sensuous and austere, straightforward and celebratory. He was perhaps the first artist to employ electric light in a sustained way, and he remained one of the best. In retrospect, its presence seemed appropriate to a former Catholic altar boy who recalled being ''curiously fond of the solemn high funeral Mass,  which was so consummately rich in candlelight, music, chant, vestments, processions and incense.''
        Mr. Flavin arrived at the idea of using fluorescent tubes after several years of painting and drawing Abstract Expressionistic works to which he sometimes added scribbled texts from the Bible or James Joyce. These were followed by a brief period in the late 1950's and early 60's of making boxy wall reliefs in strong monochromatic colors, to which he attached colored light bulbs and fluorescent tubes.
        In 1963 Mr. Flavin placed a single gold tube diagonally on the wall, and came to realize, as he later wrote, that ''the actual space of a room could be disrupted and played with by careful, thorough composition of the illuminating equipment.'' Thereafter he began using the tubes on their own, deploying them in fencelike barriers across rooms or doorways, in vertical arrangements along walls and in various crisscrossing or framelike constructions that spanned corners.
        The result was an art brazenly radical and very much in the vein of Marcel Duchamp's ready-mades, yet characterized by profound, even ecstatic beauty that was at once painterly and architectural. This beauty emanated from a combination of the tubes' intense lines of color, the softer glow of their diffuse, spreading light and the geometric arrangements of the tubes' metal pans. Mr. Flavin became adept at getting the most out of all three. He might turn the light elements away from the viewer, so that the pans formed dark lines across the glowing color effects, or combine tubes of different colors to create tints of a third.
        He was equally at home with almost no color, contrasting the different whites of fluorescent tubes designated daylight, cool white and warm white, and in the early 1970's he began working with circular fluorescent lights.
        His pieces could be symphonic, filling entire museums -- as they did the rotunda of the Guggenheim in 1971 and again in 1992 -- and highlighting their exteriors as well, as at the Staatliche Kunsthalle in Baden-Baden, Germany, in 1989. Or they could strike single chords, as small, portable combinations of short tubes whose compactness recalled his early reliefs.
        The emotionalism of Mr. Flavin's early work never disappeared, but was relegated to the elaborate dedication titles with which he acknowledged debts and admirations both personal and artistic. He dedicated pieces to friends, colleagues, fellow artists, sometimes to the museum workmen who installed them, even to a beloved golden retriever. In the 1960's, he dedicated a large series of pyramidal wall pieces to the Russian Constructivist Vladimir Tatlin, to whose esthetic he felt closely connected; in 1990, another series was dedicated to the great English potter Lucie Rie, an homage in keeping with Mr. Flavin's avid collecting of Japanese tea bowls and American glass.
        But Mr. Flavin could be equally generous with blame and was famous for scathing letters to friends, former friends and editors, written in a slightly ornate style.
        Daniel Nicholas Flavin Jr. was born in New York City on April 1, 1933. His parents apparently did not encourage their son's early demonstrations of artistic interest. In 1969, in the catalogue of his first retrospective, at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, he identified his parents as ''an ascetic, remotely male, Irish Catholic truant officer, whose junior I am, and a stupid, fleshly tyrant of a woman who had descended from German royalty without a trace of nobility.'' His twin brother, Daniel, died in 1962.
        Mr. Flavin studied art history at the New School for Social Research and Columbia University, but was almost completely self-taught as an artist. He had his first exhibition in 1961 at the Judson Gallery in Greenwich Village and first exhibited his fluorescent works at the Green Gallery on East 57th Street in 1964. He was represented by the Leo Castelli Gallery for many years and more recently by the Pace Gallery. Next month, the Danese Gallery on East 57th Street will exhibit works from the Tatlin series, along with drawings by Kasimir Malevich.
        Mr. Flavin married Sonia Severdija in 1961; they were divorced in 1979.
        In addition to his son, of Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Tracy Harris, whom he married in 1992 in the rotunda of the Guggenheim amid an installation of his work.
      