
        Newell Jenkins, a conductor and musicologist whose discoveries helped expand contemporary perceptions of the Baroque, Classical and early Romantic repertories and whose enterprising Clarion Concerts introduced listeners to hundreds of fascinating rarities, died on Saturday at his home in Hillsdale, N.Y. He was 81.
        Starting in the 1950's, Mr. Jenkins visited Europe regularly to pore over manuscripts and early printed editions in palace and monastery archives. Returning with reels of microfilm, which he developed himself, Mr. Jenkins prepared his own performing editions -- conductor's scores and individual parts for the players -- and conducted his discoveries at his Clarion Concerts, a series he started in 1958.
        Often, the detective work behind a performance was as interesting as the music. In 1995, he presented an Alessandro Scarlatti oratorio, ''La Vergine Addolorata,'' which he had reconstructed from incomplete sources he found in libraries in London, Rome, Brussels and Naples.
        Mr. Jenkins's specialty was Italian music, particularly that of Giovanni Battista Sammartini, Gaetano Brunetti and Simone Mayr. Their works were centerpieces of his programs, and he published editions of several of Brunetti's symphonies as well as the first thematic catalogue of Sammartini's music. He also championed the music of Joseph Martin Kraus, an 18th-century Swedish court composer whose funeral cantata for the assassinated King Gustav III, and an opera, ''Aeneas in Carthage,'' were presented at the Clarion Concerts.
        Newell Owen Jenkins was born in New Haven in 1915, but his principal musical training was in Germany. Between 1932 and 1938, he studied in Dresden, Freiburg and Munich, and he made his professional conducting debut in a performance of Purcell's ''Dido and Aeneas'' at the Stadt isches Theater in Freiburg in 1935. He completed his studies at Yale University, where he founded the Yale Opera Group in 1940.
        In World War II, Mr. Jenkins was stationed in Italy, and he remained there through 1952 as the conductor of the Italian Chamber Orchestra of Bologna and the Piccola Accademia Musicale of Florence. New York became his principal base with the establishment of the Clarion Music Society in 1957 and the start of the Clarion Concerts series the next year. In 1959, Mr. Jenkins directed a city-wide Handel festival that was sponsored by the New York Department of Commerce and Public Events and involved 32 musical organizations.
        Mr. Jenkins took his Clarion Concerts Orchestra on a six-week tour of the Soviet Union in 1963 and included works by several American composers among the programs. Contemporary works also figured into his New York programs, which included works by Ned Rorem, Ben Weber, Hall Overton, Paul Creston, Peggy Glanville-Hicks and Noel Lee.
        Mr. Jenkins included favorites from the standard repertory now and then, although usually as a way of presenting a context for the rarer works. More typically he avoided the predictable. A 1994 Christmas concert, for example, included sacred works by Johann David Heinichen and Jan Dismas Zelenka rather than holiday standards. Besides introducing relatively unknown composers, Mr. Jenkins led the first New York performances of more than 75 works by Bach, Vivaldi, Telemann, Scarlatti and Mozart.
        Mr. Jenkins was on the faculty of New York University from 1964 to 1974 and was a lecturer at the University of California, Irvine, from 1971 to 1979.
        He is survived by his companion, Jack Hurley.
      