
        At 94, Brooke Astor is giving up giving away money.
        After more than 30 years of overseeing a foundation that has donated $175 million in New York City, to world-renowned cultural institutions and tiny neighborhood service programs, Mrs. Astor says she wants more time to travel and write poetry. She has decided to close the Vincent Astor Foundation, and will give away its remaining $25 million by the end of next year.
        While there are many larger philanthropic foundations, few have become so entwined in the fabric of the city's life, because of Mrs. Astor's role as a social arbiter and her determination to focus her efforts on New York.
        She also set a standard for personal involvement in philanthropy. Determined to know every group that received money, Mrs. Astor personally visited hundreds of organizations, from the New York Public Library to a modest program that gives furniture to formerly homeless families.
        That effort began when Mrs. Astor visited two families who had been homeless and had then moved into apartments in Queens with almost no furniture.
        ''How can you build a new life if you don't have any furniture?'' Mrs. Astor said. ''To move into a place and just sit there with a bag and not even have a teacup is terrible.''
        She mobilized a group of nonprofit agencies and foundations to support a fledgling organization called Furnish a Future, which provides furniture at low cost for such families.
        Even her giving to the city's leading institutions, including $20 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an equivalent sum sum to the New York Public Library, has been characterized by a concern for individuals, those who know her say.
        Most recently, the foundation gave $250,000 for a room for the staff of the new Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street, and just last week she gave her annual Christmas lunch for more than 1,000 employees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Vartan Gregorian, president of Brown University, who was president of the New York Public Library from 1980 to 1988, said Mrs. Astor ''has given equal attention to janitors and guards as to librarians and curators and the rich and famous.''
        Shelby White, a trustee and a donor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said: ''She set the pattern for making philanthropy socially desirable. She was the model that everyone aspired to. But she did not do it to climb social ladders. After all, she was already on top.''
        In an interview at the offices of the Vincent Astor Foundation on Park Avenue, Mrs. Astor, dressed in a black Valentino suit, wide-brimmed black hat and strands of pearls, said that during 1997 she would decide how to give away the rest of the money. The recipients will primarily be education oriented, Mrs. Astor said, with existing recipients getting most of the money.
        ''But we're not telling anybody what we're doing,'' Mrs. Astor said, smiling mischievously. ''We don't know ourselves yet.''
        As to why she chose this moment to close down the foundation, she said simply, ''Age.''
        She said she had had a wonderful time running the foundation, but added: ''I don't think I can do as much as I used to, and couldn't do it as well. I would like to have one year, before I dance into my grave, of doing something good for myself.''
        Mrs. Astor, who was brought up in China, said that she wanted to make one more trip there. Now that she has taken to writing poetry -- she has had two poems published in The New Yorker -- she said she hopes to spend more time writing.
        Mrs. Astor said she had considered keeping the foundation going with someone else at the helm, but decided against it.
        ''My son is not an Astor,'' she said, referring to her son, Tony Russell, from an earlier marriage. ''There is no family to leave it to. If you have children, like the Rockefellers did, you leave it to your children. If you have no children, I think it is a nice idea to close it.''
        For his part, Mr. Russell said he supported his mother's decision, noting how difficult it would have been to take over an effort so strongly identified with her. ''I would hate to second-guess, 'Is this something that my mother would like to give to?' '' he said.
        Mrs. Astor's efforts began in earnest in 1959, when her third husband, Vincent Astor, died, leaving the foundation assets of $67 million.
        The decision to focus the foundation's philanthropy on New York was hers. The foundation's only mandate was ''the alleviation of human misery,'' but Mrs. Astor decided that since the Astor family money derived in part from New York City real estate, she wanted to return it to the city.
        ''The mandate has been pretty straightforward,'' said Linda Gillies, the foundation's director. ''Housing, literacy, the arts and some planning and landmarks.''
        From the beginning, Mrs. Astor was deeply and personally involved.  Marjory Rice, the director of Furnish a Future, said Mrs. Astor has appeared at functions for the organization and helped raise money. ''It creates a wonderful stir of excitement,'' she said. ''It is is sort of like having a wonderful magic wand.''
        Another favorite cause has been the Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day High School, which lets young people who have dropped out of high school and started working  get a high school diploma. Its founder and principal, Howard Friedman, wrote to the Astor foundation in 1989 seeking money for a library. Mrs. Astor spent a day visiting the school, and since then the school has received $50,000.
        ''She spent hours there,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''I got worried because it was so hot and she was going up and down the stars from room to room. She started speaking Chinese with the Chinese students. She really bonded with students. From that we developed a relationship.''
        Mrs. Astor said she was struck by the students' efforts to help themselves. ''They were the sort of children who wanted to do something but did not have the proper education, and they realized that,'' she said.
        The Astor foundation has been known for spreading its wealth over a wide range of causes. Of the $1.58 million the foundation gave away in 1995, 105 of the total of 111 grants were between $1,000 and $50,000.
        Mrs. Astor is best known for her affiliation with the New York Public Library. During the 1980's, she resigned from the boards of Rockefeller University and the Bronx Zoo to work more intensely for the library.
        Mr. Gregorian said that one approach he and Mrs. Astor settled on to raise money was to convince people that being associated with the library was good for them.
        ''People don't add class to the library,'' he said. ''It was the library that added class to them. To serve the library is to service civilization, culture and democracy. It is the only institution that can be populist and elitist.''
        Mrs. Astor has been able to meld the worlds of society and accomplishment in an unusually public way. Mr. Gregorian recalled that when Mrs. Astor gave a dinner for the library, she invited virtually the same people she had recently invited to a party for President Reagan.
        The library's chairwoman, Elizabeth Rohatyn, said it was hard to imagine the future without Mrs. Astor's involvement. But, she said, ''With the reflection of her vast interest, the library has evolved into a very strong institution.''
        The Astor foundation will close down in a year, but Mrs. Astor is unlikely to forsake her role at the center of New York life. ''I adore people,'' she said.
        Correction:  December 21, 1996, Saturday
        An article on Wednesday about Brooke Astor's plans to close the Vincent Astor Foundation misidentified her son, who expressed support for his mother's decision against leaving it in his hands or someone else's. He is Anthony D. Marshall, not Tony Russell.
      