
        Suzanne Railey, a representative of Christie's auction house who was known for her talents as an international hostess, died last weekend in her Manhattan apartment. She was 85.
        She died in her sleep, said Ed Gallagher, a longtime friend, who found Ms. Railey on Sunday afternoon. She had a list of guests for her next dinner party at her bedside, he said.
        Ms. Railey lived most of her life in Paris and New York, and had been employed by Christie's in New York since March 1985.
        She was a public relations ambassador of sorts. Her only role for the auction house was to hold a black-tie dinner party at her home each month, drawing on her long list of wealthy and influential friends, many with extensive art collections. The idea was to generate good will, and eventually business, for the auction house.
        Seated at the tables in her two-bedroom apartment in the East 60's would be diplomats, society doyennes and fashion designers.
        ''It all depends who's in town and what I'm thinking about,'' Ms. Railey said during an interview last week.
        The jewelry designer Kenneth Jay Lane, a frequent dinner guest at her house, said: ''You never knew who you'd be seated next to. She always had good people.
        ''And her apartment was amazing, with more objects than you could count on every table and mirrors on the ceilings.''
        Entertaining and collecting were what she enjoyed.
        ''You must talk to me about dinner parties,'' Ms. Railey said, standing at Alexis Gregory's dinner party on Dec. 2, clutching a black pocketbook with a big white clock on top. ''I love them so much. It's just so much more attractive to entertain at home. You can actually sit and talk.''
        Christopher Burge, the chairman of Christie's, said, ''Her apartment was filled with all these treasures of Europe.'' She collected portraits from the French Revolutionary period, miniatures and African works of art, and also had a large collection of letter seals.
        She was born Suzanne Rosenberg, in Rochester. Her family owned a department store. As a girl she traveled to Manhattan, Washington and Paris with her parents, said David Granger, a longtime friend.
        She lived in Manhattan during part of her 20's with an uncle, Ed Goodman, who owed Finchley's, a men's clothing store. Mr. Granger said: ''And she did what popular young girls do. She traveled and went to parties.''
        Then she moved to Washington, where she started Overcoats for Britain, shipping coats to Britain during World War II.
        In 1950, she married Howard Barclay Railey, a businessman who was attached to the American Embassy in Paris. For the next 33 years, she lived and entertained in ''a romantic apartment overlooking the Seine in Paris,'' said Ethel de Croisset, a close friend who lives in Paris.
        ''She was a born brilliant hostess,'' she said. ''She was always friends with all the ambassadors.'' When her husband died, Ms. Railey moved back to Manhattan and began working for Christie's.
        She is survived by two stepsons.
      