
        Lee Alexander, whose 16 years as Mayor of Syracuse defined him as a champion of America's cities and elevated him to national stature before his disgrace in a $1.5 million kickback scandal, died on Wednesday at his home in Syracuse. He was 69.
        The cause of death was cancer, said the office of Mayor Roy A. Bernardi.
        Mr. Alexander spent nearly six years in confinement for racketeering, tax evasion and conspiracy to obstruct a Federal investigation, before being released from custody in February 1994 at the age of 66.
        Mr. Alexander became ill last month, and early this month he learned that he was dying of cancer.
        From 1970 to 1985, he earned praise and prominence as the 46th and longest-serving mayor of Syracuse, the fifth-largest city in the state. Mr. Alexander, a Democrat,  called himself an ''urbanologist,'' a spokesman for America's cities.
        When he won election in 1969, at the age of 42, he was the first Democrat in decades to become mayor of Syracuse, in solidly Republican Onondaga County. But he did more than  build his party. In his first two terms, he kept Syracuse solvent while other Northeastern cities hovered near bankruptcy, and he attracted millions of dollars in state and Federal aid that enabled the building of schools, firehouses and thousands of units of public housing.
        He was mentioned as a possible ambassador, Cabinet member or governor, though in 1974 he lost a bid for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate. In 1977 he was elected president of the United States Conference of Mayors, and for six years, beginning in 1980, he was elected president of the National Conference of Democratic Mayors.
        But even as he grew more prominent, his reputation at home was being tarnished by rumors of corruption. He was re-elected to third and fourth terms in 1977 and 1981. But his margins diminished each time, and his circle of enemies widened.
        He had a confrontational style, a penchant for limousines, a concern for image that was unusual for Syracuse and a proclivity for frequent travel that drew criticism. In 1985, perceiving himself as menaced by eroding support and weary of what he called life in the fishbowl, he said that he would not seek a fifth term.
        By then, the newspapers and other critics were pointing to what they called a pattern of handing out contracts to friends and other associates. Besides being Mayor, he was the head and controlling power of the city's three-member Board of Estimate, which had wide budget and contract-granting powers.
        In 1986, a routine Internal Revenue Service audit of a man who had received large city contracts showed a substantial business deduction. Under questioning, the man described the sum as a kickback to Mr. Alexander. A grand jury was convened, and other witnesses began telling their  accounts to the Government.
        In July 1987, he was indicted as the mastermind of a scheme that brought him $1.5 million from city contractors. The next January, with his head bowed in a 35-minute recital of his crimes by a Federal prosecutor, Mr. Alexander pleaded guilty to 3 of the 65 counts against him.
        He agreed to a prison term of up to 10 years, a maximum fine of $100,000 and the forfeiture of an estimated $1.2 million in cash, as well as municipal bonds and gold coins that he admitted he had extorted from municipal contractors. He did not agree to cooperate in the continuing Federal inquiry.
        Nine other people were convicted in the extortion-kickback scheme and received sentences that ranged from two months to two and a half years in prison.
        ''I never hurt the city,'' Mr. Alexander said in an interview at the time of his plea. He said the kickbacks, averaging 10 percent a contract, were from contractors' excess profits.
        Mr. Alexander, third of the six children of Rita and Peter Alexandrides, was born on May 18, 1927, in Jersey City. When Mr. Alexander  was a boy, his family moved through seven homes in New York and New Jersey, where they settled in South Amboy. Peter Alexandrides died when Lee was 15.
        At 17, Mr. Alexander joined the Army, was sent to Syracuse University to study engineering and later transferred to Germany. He returned to Syracuse and graduated in 1950 with a degree in public administration. Five years later, he received his law degree there.
        His political career began with unsuccessful local campaigns followed by a failed bid for Congress. But in 1966 Mr. Alexander was elected to the city's Common Council and was later re-elected. In 1969, he won the mayoralty.
        Surviving are his wife, Elizabeth; two sons, James, of Syracuse, and Matthew, of Jamesville, N.Y.; two daughters, Rita Alexander of Boston and Anastasia Alexander-White, known as Stacy, of Guiting Power, Gloucestershire, England; a brother, Christ, of Utica, N.Y.; two sisters, Mary Voyadgis of Washington and Elbe Alcott of East Brunswick, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      