
        Quentin Bell, author, artist, critic and biographer of his aunt Virginia Woolf, died on Monday at his home in Firle in East Sussex, England, near the Charleston farmhouse where he grew up at the center of the Bloomsbury group. He was 86.
        The son of Virginia Woolf's older sister, Vanessa Bell, and Clive Bell, Mr. Bell was born into Bloomsbury, that legendary gathering of variously talented artists and writers, friends and lovers who were to have such an important impact on English letters, art and society and on generations that followed.
        His aunt once told him, ''You will always be ignorant and illiterate,'' a remark he remembered with a curious kind of affection. Contrary to that prediction, he proved to be polymathic in his creative contributions. With the publication of his highly acclaimed book ''Virginia Woolf: A Biography'' in 1972, and his other works, he became Bloomsbury's most painstaking and sensitive chronicler and eventually the guardian of the family legacy.
        In common with other members of this celebrated circle, he did not limit himself to one occupation. He was a sculptor as well as a painter, a teacher as well as an art critic, and a potter. Relatively late in life, he also published a novel. One of the astonishments of his life was that, surrounded by flamboyance and bizarre behavior, he seemed to survive intact and eventually became a grand old man of Bloomsbury lore.
        ''I loved my parents,'' he once said, ''and I had more than the usual number to love.'' He was referring to Clive and Vanessa Bell, Duncan Grant and Roger Fry (both of whom had affairs with his mother). But he could also have been speaking about the entire wide extended family that filled his childhood and his adult life. These included Lytton Strachey, E. M. Forster, John Maynard Keynes, David Garnett, Ottoline Morrell, Vita Sackville-West and Dora Carrington.
        When he published his 1996 memoir ''Bloomsbury Recalled,'' Mr. Bell confessed his inability to write about his own life and instead devoted the main body of the work ''not to me, but to my elders and betters, a term I have used to describe my parents, their friends and acquaintances.''
        In contrast to others, who wrote about the people of the Bloomsbury set with recriminations and bitterness, Mr. Bell remained fair-minded. Reviewing ''Bloomsbury Recalled'' in The New York Times Book Review, Janet Malcolm said that ''Mr. Bell evidently could not change the habits of a lifetime of literary self-effacement; he continues to feel comfortable in the position of the observer and uncomfortable as the observed.'' Those observations remain a fascinating reader's guide to the intricate web of Bloomsbury.
        At the same time, he could be extraordinarily candid. In his biography of Virginia Woolf, he revealed for the first time that his aunt had been sexually molested by her half brothers Gerald and George Duckworth. In ''Bloomsbury Recalled,'' he expressed his anger at his father's Fascist leanings and at other aspects of the life around him.
        He was born in London in 1910. His father was an art critic, his mother a painter. His parents separated when he was 6. After studying art in Paris in the 1930's, he had his first art exhibition. In 1937, his older brother, Julian, was killed in the Spanish Civil War. In 1947 Mr. Bell published his first book, ''On Human Finery,'' about fashion. That was followed by ''Those Impossible English'' (written with Helmut and Alison Gernsheim), ''The Schools of Design,'' ''Ruskin'' and ''Victorian Artists.''
        Then, encouraged by his uncle Leonard Woolf, Virginia Woolf's husband, he embarked on his biography of his aunt. The two-volume ''Virginia Woolf'' became a cornerstone of Bloomsbury scholarship. In the book he described a visit from his aunt as ''a warm capricious breeze blowing in from the southwest and bringing with it a kind of amazed joy.'' In this and other works, Mr. Bell succeeded in demystifying the people in the Bloomsbury set, humanizing them and, at least by indirection, criticizing their lives and life styles.
        He also wrote ''A New and Noble School: The Pre-Raphaelites,'' ''Techniques of Terra Cotta'' and ''The Brandon Papers,'' a novel.
        He was a lecturer in art education at King's College, Newcastle, and professor of fine art at Oxford and the University of Leeds. He also held the chair of history and theory of art at the University of Sussex.
        Mr. Bell is survived by his wife, Anne Olivier Bell, who edited ''The Diary of Virginia Woolf''; a son, Julian; two daughters, Virginia and Cressida, and a sister, Angelica Garnett of Forcalquier, France.
        As the Bloomsbury industry expanded, and as biographies and memoirs proliferated, the Charleston farmhouse reopened to the public. A country house (and garden) filled with art and memorabilia, it quickly became a popular tourist site and a sacred place to admirers of the Bloomsbury group. In later years, Mr. Bell lived close to Charleston, but seldom revisited it.
        ''One feels rather like a ghost at Charleston,'' he said in an interview last year. Asked which Bloomsbury people he would like to see again, he said Roger Fry, who was ''one of the wisest and one of the kindest.'' Then he added that it might be amusing to see Virginia Woolf again, to remind her of her disparagement of him and to say, ''Well now, look what I've written about you.''
      