
        Howard B. Keck, a former chairman of the Superior Oil Company, philanthropist and racehorse breeder, died on Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The W. M. Keck Foundation in Los Angeles, which was named after Mr. Keck's father and the founder of Superior Oil, William M. Keck, is among the nation's premier grant-giving institutions. Its major projects include the W. M. Keck Observatory, a highly sophisticated telescope built by the California Institute of Technology and the University of California atop Mauna Kea, an extinct volcano on the island of Hawaii.
        The Keck Observatory was part of a new generation of telescopes, begun in the 1980's, that looked toward the heavens not simply to identity distant stars but also to answer fundamental questions about the origins and nature of the universe.
        William Keck's wealth sprang from Superior Oil, one of the nation's largest oil-and-gas producing companies. After his father died in 1964, leadership of the company fell to Howard Keck, who turned the company into a leading independent company for energy exploration and production.
        He retired in 1981 after spending his entire career with the company, although his involvement with Superior remained strong. In 1983, he and his sister, Willametta Keck Day, became involved in a highly publicized battle over whether the company should be sold. Mr. Keck's sister, favoring such a sale, took out newspaper advertisements advising shareholders to vote on a resolution that would permit it.
        Mrs. Day and her supporters won a shareholder proxy fight. In late 1983, Mr. Keck resigned from the oil company's board, signaling to many that he was ready to sell his sizable stake in Superior. In 1984, the Mobil Corporation bought Superior Oil for $5.7 billion.
        Along with his business activities, Mr. Keck was also interested in sports. In 1953 and 1954, he owned cars that won the Indianapolis 500. In 1986, Ferdinand, a horse bred and owned by Mr. Keck and his wife, Elizabeth, from whom he was later divorced, won the Kentucky Derby.
        In 1956, Mr. Keck was caught up in a national political scandal involving accusations of influence-peddling that foreshadowed later controversies over campaign financing.
        A special committee of the United States Senate heard testimony that money originating from Mr. Keck had found its way through a middleman to Nebraska's State Republican Committee. At the time, Mr. Keck supported a bill that would have freed natural gas producers from Government price regulation, and the middleman said he had been told that Nebraska's Senators would support the bill, but the Senators repudiated those claims. When the contributions were disclosed, President Dwight D. Eisenhower vetoed the bill.
        Mr. Keck was not charged with any wrongdoing and repeatedly insisted that he had given the money with ''no strings attached.''
        In turning to philanthropy, Mr. Keck found that he could also do well by doing good. A survey published in 1992 by The Chronicle of Philanthropy, a biweekly newspaper, found that, as the chairman of the W. M. Keck Foundation, Mr. Keck was the highest-paid executive of a charity in the country in 1991, earning $624,500.
        Other projects underwritten by the foundation included research into the use of lasers to improve surgical techniques and projects in oceanography, pharmacology and genetics.
        In addition to his foundation-related work, Mr. Keck was also a trustee of the California Institute of Technology.
        He was born in Trinidad in September 1913.
        A family spokesman declined to release details about survivors.
      