
        Jaroslav Drabek, a Czech lawyer and writer whose resistance to German occupiers and the Communists led to a broadcasting career in this country with the Voice of America, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Washington. He was 95.
        Born in Chrudim in Bohemia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, he received his doctor of laws degree at the University of Prague in 1923. He practiced law, and also contributed to newspapers until the 1938 Munich Pact doomed Czechoslovakia as a sovereign country.
        After President Eduard Benes fled to London, Mr. Drabek was a messenger from the underground. He briefed the exiled leader on the country's mood and returned to Prague with guidance on how to organize the non-Communist resistance.
        With others in the court system, he worked secretly to protect Jewish children until he was arrested. He survived by finding refuge in a mental institution.
        After World War II, he was appointed chief prosecutor at the trial of German officials of the occupation. Among them was Karl Frank, the Nazi Governor of Bohemia and Moravia, against whom he obtained a death sentence.
        When the Communists took full control of Czechoslovakia in 1948, Mr. Drabek became a political target because of anti-Communist writings and his investigation of Communist involvement in assassination plots, his son, Jan, said. The official version was that he had been too lenient in some war-crimes trials.
        As others around him were arrested, he fled with his wife and two sons by skiing across the border into Bavaria. After some months in Germany and France, the family arrived in New York.
        At the Voice of America in New York and Washington, he broadcast commentary and news reports in Czech, often telling listeners at home about fellow Czechs living in the United States. He retired in 1971.
        During the Carter Administration, he served on the United States Holocaust Memorial Commission. He also continued to write books in Czech, fiction and nonfiction, which were published by exile presses in Toronto and Switzerland.
        Besides his surviving son, Jan, of Prague, Mr. Drabvek leaves five grandchildren. His wife, Jarmila Kucerova Drabek, died in 1983.
      