
        Jay Kramer, who was chairman of the New York State Labor Relations Board under five Governors and used his position as a relentless cudgel against labor racketeers, died on Sunday at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. Mr. Kramer, who also lived in Great Neck, L.I., was 80.
        The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Laura Lowell of Tiburon, Calif.
        When Mr. Kramer resigned as chairman of the Labor Relations Board in 1976 after 21 years with the agency, he had served under Governors Thomas E. Dewey, W. Averell Harriman, Nelson A. Rockefeller, Malcolm Wilson and Hugh L. Carey. He had also depoliticized his office, fostered civility in labor-management relations and earned a reputation for personal probity that led one publication to refer to him as ''Mr. Clean.''
        As he looked back on his tenure, Mr. Kramer said that the board, as supervisor of labor relations at the state level, had led ''in the development of the law, forged legal tools to inhibit and destroy racket unions and encouraged legitimate labor organizations and mature management to engage in constructive relationships.''
        He said he took particular satisfaction in protecting the rights of the working poor and in preventing racketeers from using the labor law as a ''cloak of respectability.''
        Mr. Kramer was also a founder of the National Association of State Labor Relations Agencies. The effort was an expansion of his campaign against gangsters who organized locals to extort money from employers by means of strike threats, or to seize control of entire industries for their personal enrichment, or to make sweetheart contracts with businesses that ignored workers' interests and kept legitimate unions away. He served as the association's first president from 1961 to 1962.
        In 1959, he won the plaudits of Federal, state and county prosecutors by convening a meeting to start a cooperative effort against racketeers who were using the law to win certification for organizations masquerading as unions.
        In 1991, the State Labor Relations Board and the State Mediation Board merged to become the State Employment Relations Board.
        Mr. Kramer also served as impartial chairman of labor relations for the hotel, hospitals, nuclear energy, fur and nursing home industries.
        In 1980, when the New Jersey Casino Control Commission balked at granting an operating permit to the Claridge Hotel and Hi-Ho Casino in Atlantic City because a principal creditor was on trial in Nevada, Mr. Kramer was chosen to take it over. He was president and chief operating officer for a year before the matter was cleared, and then he sold back the property for what he was paid for it, a dollar.
        Mr. Kramer, a son of Samuel and Mollie Kramer, was born in Brooklyn. He received a bachelor of arts degree from Brooklyn College in 1937 and a bachelor of laws degree from Columbia University's School of Law in 1940. After a year in private practice, he was appointed to the legal staff of the State Labor Relations Board. In 1950, he was appointed a mediator and arbitrator with the State Board of Mediation, handling labor disputes in the trucking, baking, food, transportation, manufacturing and service industries.
        In 1954, he was appointed chairman of the Labor Relations Board by Governor Dewey.
        Mr. Kramer remained active in business and labor relations until three years ago, after his health began to fail.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Kramer is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Riva Sheib; his son, Michael, of Manhattan; two brothers,  Walter, of Alexandria, Va. and Irving, and a grandson.
      