
        Eulace Peacock, one of the world's leading sprinters and long jumpers in the decade before World War II and Jesse Owens's major rival, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Nursing Home in Yonkers. He was 82.
        He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for the last several years, said his daughter, Linda DiGangi Freundlich.
        Although Peacock seldom talked about his achievements, he had much to talk about. In 1935, the year before Owens would win four gold medals in the Berlin Olympics and become an American icon, Peacock defeated him in 7 of their 10 meetings. But Peacock never made that Olympic team because of injury.
        Peacock was an outstanding athlete from an early age. He was born in Dothan, Ala., on Aug. 27, 1914. In 1933 at Union High School, he set a New Jersey scholastic long jump record of 24 feet 4 1/4 inches that stood until 1977, when Renaldo Nehemiah of Scotch Plains, N.J. -- who would become the world's leading high hurdler -- jumped 24-11.
        In 1935, Peacock was a sophomore at Temple University and Owens a sophomore at Ohio State. On May 25, in a 45-minute span during the Big Ten Conference championships in Columbus, Ohio, Owens broke five world records and equaled a sixth.
        Six weeks later, in the Amateur Athletic Union national championships in Lincoln, Neb., Peacock beat Owens in the 100-meter dash (10.2 seconds, wind aided) and the long jump (26-3 to Owens's 26-2 1/4). Arthur Daley, covering the meet for The New York Times, called Peacock's achievement ''one of the greatest double upsets in the history of track.''
        Peacock and Owens competed against each other often that year, with Peacock usually winning. But as Herb Douglas, who jumped against Peacock in later years, said, ''They were so friendly that I don't think they cared who won.''
        In the 1936 Penn Relays in Philadelphia, Peacock tore his right hamstring, and the injury never fully healed that year. In the United States Olympic trials two months later in Cambridge, Mass., the hamstring heavily taped, he finished 10th in the long jump and withdrew from the 100-meter trials.
        Owens went on to win four Olympic gold medals that year. Peacock never competed in an Olympics as the 1940 and 1944 Games were canceled because of World War II, and he retired from the sport well before the 1948 Games.
        ''If not for that injury,'' Douglas said, ''history would have been different. He could have been Jesse Owens.''
        John Woodruff, a longtime friend of Peacock's and a fellow member of the Track and Field Hall of Fame, said he was not sure Peacock would have beaten Owens in the Olympics. However, Woodruff said, ''Jesse was kind of glad Eulie didn't make the team.''
        ''What can you do?'' Peacock said years later. ''I was disappointed, but you can't spend your life thinking what could have been. I remember one time Jesse saying to me, 'Eulie, when we were running, I just got to the point that I couldn't beat you.' ''
        In addition to sprinting and long jumping, Peacock won six national titles from 1933 to 1945 in the pentathlon, a five-event, one-day version of the decathlon. He was an outstanding football running back in high school and college. He served in the Coast Guard during World War II.
        After that, Peacock owned a liquor store, an ice cream distribution business and, with Owens, a wholesale meat business in Harlem and the Bronx. For a quarter century, he served as a long jump official at track meets.
        ''In the indoor meets,'' said Patricia Rico, another official, ''he was always immaculately dressed in a tuxedo, but he wasn't afraid to take the dirty jobs.''
        Peacock stopped officiating when he became ill.
        ''I stayed with him in the same hotel room for the Penn Relays three years ago,'' Woodruff said. ''He asked me, 'John, how serious is this disease?' I told him it was very serious, that it would reach a point where he wouldn't be able to recognize family members. He said, 'That bad?' I said yes. That was it. As always, he was stoic.''
        Peacock is survived by his daughter and a son, Eulace Clinton Peacock, both of Yonkers, and seven grandchildren. His wife, Betty, whom he married in 1942 in New York City, died in 1989.
      