
        Louis Morris Brown, a lawyer and legal scholar who formulated preventive law as an academic discipline and a practitioner's specialization, died on Sept. 12 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was heart failure, according to a statement from the University of Southern California, where he was professor of law emeritus. The university reported the death this week.
        Professor Brown may not have invented preventive law, but he set forth its underpinnings in his many books, beginning in 1950, and lectures.
        Preventive law, as he once put it, is akin to preventive medicine: ''The time to see an attorney is when you're legally healthy -- certainly before the advent of litigation, and prior to the time legal trouble occurs.''
        Many a despairing lawyer has enunciated the principle when telling a prospective client, ''You should have seen me before you got in trouble.''
        Professor Brown's most publicized application of preventive law came in 1978 when he persuaded the Beverly Hills Bar Association to establish the country's first legal counseling service for unwed couples. Typical clients were two young people moving in together and forming a household, often at considerable, shared expense.
        While the pair usually intended to marry eventually, things could work out differently, leaving questions about who would own what and who would owe what to whom. The counseling service explained California community property law to such couples in the Los Angeles area before they invested in a home, expensive furnishings and the like.
        Reinforcing Professor Brown's proposition was the landmark California court decision in 1979 in the case involving the actor Lee Marvin and the woman with whom he had lived for six years, Michelle Triola Marvin. It set the precedent for ''palimony,'' under which unmarried partners may sue for division of property if they break up or one dies.
        With that in mind, Professor Brown's disciples of the new service helped couples enter into cohabitation agreements, similar to prenuptial contracts, that spell out what each partner will contribute toward the support of the household and what outlays each will assume individually. The less palatable flip side of the contracts specify what would happen if the couple split up.
        Professor Brown, a practicing lawyer for six decades, wrote his first book on the matter in 1950, ''Preventive Law'' (Prentice-Hall). A revised version, written with Edward Rubin, appeared in 1970 (Greenwood).
        He returned to his leitmotif with ''Lawyering Through Life: The Origin of Preventive Law'' (F.B. Rothman, 1984). At U.S.C. he advanced his conception of preventive law through his courses, ''Planning by Lawyers,'' ''Jurisprudence of the Lawyering Process,'' ''Techniques of Preventive Law'' and ''Professional Responsibility and Taxation.''
        Professor Brown was born in Los Angeles. He graduated from U.S.C. in 1930 and earned a doctorate of laws at Harvard University in 1933..
        At U.S.C., he was an adjunct professor of law from 1960 to 1974 and then a full professor until 1980, when he was given emeritus status.
        Professor Brown is survived by his wife, Hermione Kopp Brown; three sons, Harold A., of Los Angeles, Marshall J., of Seattle, and Lawrence D., of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry, of Beverly Hills; a sister, Ruth Epstein of Los Angeles, and nine grandchildren.
      