
        Gordon F. Vickery, a Seattle fire official who created paramedic programs that were widely adapted in the United States and abroad and who later headed Federal emergency and fire safety programs, died on Dec. 14. He was 76 and lived in Seattle.
        The cause was heart failure, according to local news reports.
        Mr. Vickery was a career firefighter. While he was Fire Chief in Seattle from 1963 until his retirement in 1972, he created the city's acclaimed Medic One and Medic Two programs. Intended to bring hospital-type coronary and trauma care to the scene of emergencies, the services were copied by departments throughout the country and abroad.
        He was credited with building the Seattle department into a model in other respects.
        Mr. Vickery went to Washington in 1979 when President Carter consolidated various Federal offices dealing with contingencies, creating what has become the Federal Emergency Management Agency. He served briefly as interim head of FEMA and, for the rest of the Carter Administration, as director of the agency's United States Fire Administration.
        The fire administration was created to coordinate fire-prevention and emergency medical efforts, conduct research and develop life-saving measures. As director of the fire administration, Mr. Vickery organized the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Md., promoted fire-prevention education and inaugurated a national statistical reporting system for fires.
        After leaving the agency in the 1980's, he founded and ran the now defunct Foundation for Fire Safety in Virginia, a nonprofit organization that promoted fire codes, smoke detectors and training.
        Mr. Vickery was born in Ruthton, Minn., and worked as a supervisor in bomber production at the Boeing Company during World War II. In 1946, he joined the Seattle Fire Department.
        His wife of 55 years, Frances Schluter Vickery, died last year.
        He is survived by two sons, Lynn H., of Vancouver. B.C., and Alan D., of Seattle, himself a battalion chief; a sister, Phyllis Melnyk, also of Seattle; and two grandchildren.
      