
        MacNeil Mitchell, who as a New York state senator sponsored legislation that helped to create 150,000 units of middle-income housing around the state, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 92.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Marian Nicholson. He lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        During his 27 years in the Legislature, Mr. Mitchell, a lawyer, was considered one of the most influential Republicans in the state. He spent 9 years in the Assembly and 18 in the Senate, where he represented Manhattan's old Silk Stocking District on the East Side.
        Mr. Mitchell and the late Alfred A. Lama, a Democrat, sponsored the Mitchell-Lama housing law, which was passed in 1955. It transformed the city's housing landscape, allowing private developers and nonprofit organizations to receive large property tax abatements and low-interest mortgages backed either by city or state bonds. In return, the building owners agreed to limit their profits and keep rents low.
        The Mitchell-Lama plan was developed in response to the lack of affordable rentals and co-op housing for white-collar workers at a time when government programs focused on building low-income housing.
        Mr. Mitchell was known for legislation concerning education, transportation, alcoholism and juvenile delinquency. He prided himself on the ability to work easily with Democrats. ''Being the senior Republican from a Democratic city in a Republican Legislature is a totally rewarding experience,'' he once said in an interview. ''A million dollars couldn't buy it. I love every minute of it.''
        Politics and the law were Mr. Mitchell's life. Fearing that he would ''climb the walls'' if he retired, he maintained a law office in the Bar Building at 33 West 44th Street until his mid-80's.
        He was a board member of Carnegie Hall and the New York City Opera. Mr. Mitchell worked with the violinist Isaac Stern when he sponsored legislation in 1960 to preserve Carnegie Hall.
        He was born in Lime Rock, Conn., in 1904. He graduated from Yale College in 1926, attended Columbia Law School and graduated from the University of California Law School in 1929.
        Mr. Mitchell is survived by his wife, Katherine McGowin Mitchell, a son, C. MacNeil Mitchell of Manhattan, and two daughters, Marian Nicholson of Laguna Beach, Calif., and Martha Ettehadieh of London.
      