
        Barry Gray, the smooth-talking but sometimes tart-tongued host of a late-night radio talk show, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Mr. Gray, widely credited with creating the talk show format and a fixture on the airwaves for almost half a century, died in his sleep at 1 A.M. after complications from surgery, said a statement released by WOR radio, where he worked for the last seven years.
        ''He was one of the big influences in my life,'' said Larry King, the talk show host on Cable News Network who once worked with Mr. Gray in Miami in the 1940's. ''He was one of the great broadcasters, very, very special. He should have been more well-known. He was one of my genuine heroes.''
        Born Bernard Yaroslaw in Red Lion, N.J., Mr. Gray was an itinerant disk jockey -- obstreperous and adolescent, he was once called -- before being hired at WMCA in 1950.
        He changed his act at the station, however, becoming thoughtful and considerate. Jack Gould of The New York Times called his show a ''nightly kaffeeklatsch which frequently adds up to extraordinarily different and distinctive radio.''
        Mr. Gray was the first radio host to prove that an audience would stay up late to hear discussion, opinion and music. His shows were broadcast from Chandler's Restaurant on East 46th Street, from midnight to 3 A.M. His guests included Eddie Cantor, Danny Thomas, Phil Silvers and most of the entertainment stars from New York's golden era.
        Over the next 39 years, he became radio's longest-running, highest-paid and most controversial interviewer, loathed and loved by his listeners.
        In 1964, he was suspended for calling an aide to Senator Kenneth B. Keating ''oily.''
        As the talk show format exploded in popularity, Mr. Gray faded to the background and is little-known today to New Yorkers under 40.
        Mr. Gray was also the author of a book, ''My Night People.''
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Kellogg Gray, and three children.
      