
        Eliot Bailen, who served for decades as legal adviser to the Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Mr. Bailen, a Harvard-educated lawyer who met Mr. Onassis while working in Washington in the late 1940's, was perhaps best known for establishing a trust that helped end a complicated civil and criminal United States Government case against the shipping magnate in 1955.
        Mr. Onassis, who agreed to pay the Government a $7 million penalty, was accused of acquiring 23 surplus ships by fraud. The actions were brought against Mr. Onassis and six of his companies under provisions of Federal shipping laws that barred noncitizens from control of United States flag vessels.
        Under a settlement negotiated with Assistant Attorney General Warren E. Burger, who would later become Chief Justice of the United States, the ships were to pass into American control.
        Mr. Bailen's daughter, Ann Bailen Fisher, said yesterday that her father conceived a trust to place the ships under the ownership of Mr. Onassis' children, who were American-born. She said the trust was later amended to include Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the President's widow, who married Mr. Onassis in 1968.
        Besides representing Mr. Onassis personally in the United States, Mr. Bailen also represented his corporate interests in this country, among them Victory Carriers and Olympic Airlines. Mr. Bailen's clients also included the Syntex Corporation, Schenley Industries and Allen & Company.
        Mr. Bailen, who was born in Boston, received a B.A. from Harvard in 1926 and spent a year traveling abroad under a fellowship before entering Harvard Law School in 1927. He received his law degree in 1930.
        He joined Chadbourne & Park in New York, specializing in tax law, served as a lieutenant colonel in the Air Transport Command during World War II and afterward became a partner in the firm of Goodwin, Rosenbaum, Meacham & Bailen in Washington, where he met Mr. Onassis.
        At the magnate's request, Mr. Bailen changed his base, moving to New York in 1951 and establishing the firm of Bailen & O'Sullivan, where he practiced tax law. Later, he became a partner in Holtzmann, Wise & Shepard until his retirement in 1987.
        Besides his daughter Mrs. Fisher, who lives in Manhattan, Mr. Bailen is survived by two other children, Emily Bailen McKeage and Eliot T. Bailen, both of Manhattan; a brother, Edward I. Bailen of Boston; two sisters, Diana Bailen Levine of Cincinnati and Adele Karg of Newton, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Bailen's first marriage, in 1932 to Dr. Frances Bailen-Rose, ended in divorce in 1942. His second marriage, in 1946 to Elise T. Bailen, the mother of his children, was ended by her death in 1979. At the time of Mr. Bailen's death, he was separated from his third wife, Lorraine Jenkins, whom he married in 1982.
      