
        Magda Denes, a psychoanalyst who had just completed a book recounting her torment as a Jewish child hunted by the Nazis in wartime Budapest, was found dead on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 62.
        She apparently had suffered a heart attack or stroke, her family said yesterday through a friend, Geoffrey Weill.
        Dr. Denes's second book, ''Castles Burning: A Child's Life in War,'' is to be published in January by W. W. Norton. A book party was set for Jan. 9, after which Dr. Denes was to give readings and interviews around the United States and abroad. Rights to the book, which was selected as a Literary Guild featured alternate, were also recently sold for German, British and Dutch publication.
        The book recounts Dr. Denes's ordeal as one of the so-called hidden children, estimated to number from 10,000 to 100,000, who spent World War II in stables and caves and secret rooms like Anne Frank's annex in Amsterdam. Young Madga was 5 in 1939 when her father, Gyula Denes, a wealthy publisher, fled Budapest, abandoning his daughter, son and wife, who sought refuge in houses protected by Swiss diplomats.
        For five months in 1944, she and her family lived in a basement, and on occasion, she wrote, she hid in a filthy bathroom and an oven.
        In despair, she and her family once debated whether to commit suicide or continue to hide. Magda, then 9, cast the deciding vote for survival.
        In December 1944, months before liberation by Soviet forces, her 16-year-old brother, Ivan, who had been a secret courier for the Zionist resistance group Hashomer, was caught and shot. After the war, she and her mother, grandmother and aunt fled  to France and then to Cuba before immigrating to the United States.
        She was 12 before she re-encountered her father, who pronounced her a rather unpleasant child. ''I know,'' she said she replied. ''Starving for prolonged periods of time while simultaneously being fed on by packs of lice tends to corrode one's pleasanter side.''
        In New York City, Ms. Denes attended City College, and she did postgraduate study in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis at Boston, Yeshiva and New York Universities. Since 1961 she had trained psychologists and psychiatrists.
        At her death she was a participant in postdoctoral programs at Adelphi and New York universities. She was also a faculty member and supervisor in the psychiatry department at Mount Sinai Medical Center's School of Medicine and chairwoman of the New York State Psychological Association's Committee on Public Information.
        In 1976, Dr. Denes published her first book, ''In Necessity and Sorrow: Life and Death in an Abortion Hospital,'' which a reviewer for The New York Times Book review called ''a highly emotional anti-abortion tract.'' Many other critics praised the book, and it was published in Austria, England, Germany and Japan.
        Dr. Denes is survived by her mother, Margit, and two sons, Gregory Radomisli and Timothy Radomisli, both of New York City.
        Interviewed along with with other childhood survivors of the Nazis in 1991, Dr. Denes said she had long struggled to break her silence. ''The hidden children are in a curious position,'' she said. ''They were not deported and they were not killed. So they never felt entitled to talk about their own experiences.
        ''Holocaust survivors tend to be totally absorbed with that experience, while hidden children have tried to forget what happened to them.''
      