
        Jerry Diamond, a sports entrepreneur with a feminist bent who helped transform women's professional tennis from an experiment into an industry, died on Monday morning at his home in San Francisco. He was 68.
        The cause was colon cancer, the Women's Tennis Association said.
        Mr. Diamond, who served as executive director of the women's association from 1974 to 1985, had been in failing health for several months. He did, however, remain active in the women's game, and within its complicated political hierarchy, up until the time of his death.
        Throughout his tenure as head of the association, Mr. Diamond operated his own California-based advertising and public relations firm. And it was Mr. Diamond's dual skills as an unflappable publicizer and hard-nosed negotiator for women's tennis that made him indispensable to the sport in its fledgling years when sponsors had to be cajoled and convinced that the product was saleable.
        ''He'll go down in history as the best negotiator in tennis,'' the former tennis star Billie Jean King said.
        Mr. Diamond's stake in the game was personal as well as professional; until recently he had served as tournament director and promoter for two women's pro events, the Bank of the West Classic in Oakland, Calif., and the Acura Classic in Los Angeles, a tournament he owned but sold to the International Management Group earlier this year. Mr. Diamond had also served on the tour's board of directors, where he represented the interests of the tour's tournament directors.
        ''Jerry was a trailblazer in so many ways,'' Anne Worcester, the chief executive officer of the Corel-WTA Tour, said about Mr. Diamond, who in 1980 became incensed that female players earned less prize money than the men and threatened to lead a player boycott of the United States Open. The Open has since adopted an equal pay policy, and is alone among the four Grand Slam tournaments in maintaining it.
        Mr. Diamond linked his brash style to his Bronx birthplace, and after moving across the country to start his business, he jumped headlong into tennis in 1971 when one of his clients asked him to act as tournament director of an event in San Francisco. Within three years, Mr. Diamond, who had a knack for wooing sponsors and persuading them to empty their wallets for the women's cause, was running the entire tour.
        In 1974, when Ms. King, considered to be one of the mothers of professional women's tennis, went looking for a savvy individual to shape, sell, and stabilize the year-old association, her search started and stopped at Mr. Diamond's door. The organization had scraped up barely $1 million to offer as annual prize money at the time Mr. Diamond took over. But by 1978 he had brought in sponsors like Avon, Colgate-Palmolive, and Toyota, and by 1981 the women were competing for $10 million.
        Two years later, Mr. Diamond, eager to expand the tour under the umbrella of one powerful title sponsor, worked out the deal with Virginia Slims that made the cigarette synonymous with women's tennis.
        He is survived by his wife, Jan, and four children.
      