
        Mary Cooper Jewett Gaiser, a philanthropist who served on the boards of nonprofit institutions in the fields of education, community service and the arts, died on Sunday at Deaconess Medical Center in Spokane, Wash. She was 95 and lived in Spokane.
        Over the years, Mrs. Gaiser (pronounced like ''geyser'') served on the boards of numerous institutions that were beneficiaries of her largess. She was a trustee of Wellesley College, of which she was an alumna, for 18 years. She was active in fund-raising for Wellesley, and its Jewett Art Center is named for her first husband, George Frederick Jewett, who died in 1956. He was chairman and president of Potlatch Forests, a forest-products concern based in Lewiston, Idaho. .
        Her philanthropy extended to other educational institutions, including the American University of Beirut, Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., and Church Divinity School of the Pacific in Berkeley, Calif., all of which she served as a trustee. Mrs. Gaiser had been on the national board of the Young Women's Christian Association since the late 1940's. ''Women are wonderful,'' she once declared. ''Like tea bags, they never know their strength until they get into hot water.''
        She was president of the Spokane Y.W.C.A. during World War II, and oversaw programs to help women and children with problems related to the war. In addition, she was on the boards of the Spokane Arts Commission, which she helped set up, and of what is now the Spokane Symphony orchestra, in whose founding she was instrumental. In 1987, after donating $225,000 to the orchestra's endowment, she said: ''Half the fun of life is sharing. People are missing a lot of satisfaction if they don't get pleasure from using their abilities to help others.''
        She and Mr. Jewett also played an important role in the construction of the Episcopal Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist in Spokane.
        A doctor's daughter, Mrs. Gaiser was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1923, and taught school in Bronxville, N.Y. until she married Mr. Jewett in 1925. They lived in communities in Idaho until they moved to Spokane in 1937. She married Dr. David Wesley Gaiser, a surgeon, in 1961, and he died in 1985.
        Mrs. Gaiser is survived by a son, George Frederick Jewett Jr. of San Francisco; a daughter, Margaret Jewett Greer of Chevy Chase, Md.; six grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; a sister, Janet Cooper Dakin of Irvington, Va., and a brother, Dr. William Grant Cooper Jr., of Little Rock, Ark.
      