
        Milton R. Sapirstein, an emeritus clinical professor of psychiatry who was associated with Mount Sinai Medical Center for nearly five decades, died last Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital North. He lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and would have turned 82 on Saturday.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        Dr. Sapirstein worked to mesh the advances being made in neurobiology in the 1940's with psychoanalytic concepts. Besides his hospital and teaching duties, he maintained a private practice until last year.
        He lectured and wrote widely on the neural mechanisms of feedback control and electrophysiologic arousal, diagnostic tools that slowly evolved after the introduction of the  electroencephalogram, or EEG, in 1929.
        Dr. Sapirstein used those tools to determine behavioral responses to stress and anxiety.
        He described his findings in his first book, ''Emotional Security'' (Crown, 1948). Even five years earlier he wrote about the potential role of glutamate, a salt or ester of an amino acid, as a factor controlling neural excitability and behavior.
        He was born in the Bronx to immigrant parents, was a 1934 physics graduate of City College and received his medical degree at New York University. He trained in clinical medicine at Montefiore Hospital and in neurology at Mount Sinai.
        In 1948, he became the first graduate of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research and was appointed a training analyst at age 34. He continued to teach and see patients at the institute even after renewing his association with Mount Sinai.
        He was on Mount Sinai's clinical staff in neurology and psychiatry, and was the hospital's director of organizational psychiatry from 1958 to 1968.
        His efforts to make medical students more aware of the fields of psychoanalysis and psychiatry led to his popular writings and lectures in the 1940's and 1950's.
        He appeared at the Free Synagogue, the Ethical Culture Society and Cooper Union and published his second book, ''Paradoxes of Everyday Life'' (Random House, 1953).
        The book brought his psychoanalytic insights into a family setting and was updated with a popular sequel, ''Paradoxes in the Modern Family'' (Gardner, 1992).
        Dr. Sapirstein is survived by two sons, Fredric, of Manhattan, and Victor, of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; a sister, Pearl Whitman of Cleveland, and three grandchildren. His wife of 45 years, Lillian Brizell Sapirstein, died in 1982.
      