
        Judge Con G. Cholakis of Federal District Court in Albany, a Republican appointee who dismayed the party's hierarchy in 1994 when he reinstated a Libertarian competitor in George E. Pataki's run for governor, died on Sunday at his home in North Greenbush, a suburb of Troy, N.Y. He was 66.
        He was suffering from an unspecified degenerative disorder that required him to use a wheelchair and forced him to retire from the bench in June. He had been released from Samaritan Hospital in Troy on Saturday to be at home with his family.
        A Republican, he had spent most of his career in public service and only reluctantly agreed to let Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato recommend him for a Federal court vacancy for the 32-county Northern District of New York. He was appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1986 and, sitting in Albany, soon confirmed his reputation as one of the ablest and hardest-working jurists around.
        Republicans in high places grumbled at his decision to restart the candidacy of Robert L. Schulz of Glens Falls, as the Libertarian nominee. Party leaders had derailed his bid before the Board of Elections to help Mr. Pataki's challenge to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat.
        Also in 1994, an Albany Times Union survey of the legal profession in the capital district found him rated the highest for fairness and consistency. He disclosed his illness in 1992 but remained at work until this year despite his illness.
        Constantine George Cholakis was a noncommissioned officer in the Marine Corps in Korea during the war there and graduated with a degree in sociology from Siena College in 1955. He received his law degree from Albany Law School in 1958 and went into private practice in Troy.
        He was an assistant district attorney and first assistant public defender for Rensselaer County before winning elective office as district attorney in 1968. He held that office in Troy until 1974, when he became a judge on the County Court.
        From 1978 until his appointment by President Reagan, he was a State Supreme Court justice in Troy.
        His survivors include his wife of 39 years, Dassie Michaels Cholakis; two sons, George, a prosecutor in Florida, and Gregory, a lawyer in Troy, and a daughter, Catherine Cholakis, a lawyer and town judge in East Greenbush.
      