
        Charles Bowden, a Broadway producer who presented ''The Night of the Iguana'' and other plays by Tennessee Williams and had a long professional association with Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83.
        Mr. Bowden began as an actor and was also a director. He was chairman of the New Dramatists, a group that helps young playwrights. He was regarded as a gentlemanly producer, a man of taste who encouraged new talent and often took artistic chances.
        In 1955, he and Richard Barr produced ''All in One'' on Broadway, bringing together three diverse elements: Leonard Bernstein's opera ''Trouble in Tahiti,'' Paul Draper in a dance program and Mr. Williams's ''27 Wagons Full of Cotton,'' starring Maureen Stapleton.
        Mr. Bowden produced ''The Night of the Iguana'' (starring Bette Davis and Margaret Leighton) on Broadway in 1961 and later was a co-producer of ''Slapstick Tragedy,'' two one-act plays by Mr. Williams, becoming a friend of the playwright. In addition, he was a producer of such innovative works as Albert Camus's ''Caligula'' (with Colleen Dewhurst), ''The Changing Room'' by David Storey and the Lily Tomlin-Jane Wagner ''Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the Universe.''
        Mr. Bowden was born in Somerville, Mass. He studied at Harvard University, then acted in summer theater, making his Broadway debut in 1936 in Sidney Kingsley's ''Ten Million Ghosts,'' starring Orson Welles.
        After appearing in plays for Max Reinhardt and Maurice Evans, he toured with Lunt and Fontanne in ''The Taming of the Shrew.'' For many years he worked with them as actor, stage manager and assistant director.
        He was in the Army in World War II, then returned to Broadway while also working in theaters outside of New York. For four years he was a director of the Westport Country Playhouse.
        In partnership with Mr. Barr, he produced Ruth Draper's one-woman show (and was instrumental in having the actress record her monologues); Noel Coward's ''Fallen Angels,'' starring Nancy Walker; ''Hotel Paradiso,'' with Bert Lahr and Angela Lansbury, and ''At Home with Ethel Waters.''
        He is survived by his wife, the actress Paula Lawrence.
      