
        Walter H. Weintz, a pioneer of direct mail advertising, died on Saturday in the Laurelwood nursing home in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 81 and lived in Norwalk, Conn., with his wife of 60 years, the former Helen Bennett.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said Walter L. Weintz, a son.
        In ''Theirs Was the Kingdom'' (Norton, 1993), a history of Reader's Digest, John Heidenry, the author, described Mr. Weintz as ''one of the most brilliant direct-mail strategists in the country.''
        Robert J. Teufel, the president of Rodale Press, described Mr. Weintz as ''a giant in his field who single-handedly invented many of the strategies and techniques that transformed direct response advertising into today's multibillion-dollar industry.''
        As the circulation director of the Digest in the 1950's, Mr. Weintz mailed a record 100 million pennies as part of a subscription campaign, quoting a Persian poet, ''If thou hast two pennies, spend one for bread.'' He added. ''Keep one penny for bread. Or for luck. Send back the other penny as a down payment on a subscription to the Reader's Digest -- a penny to seal the bargain!''
        The pennies were sent from the United States Mint in Denver in open flatbed trucks to a Long Island warehouse, the floor of which collapsed under the weight.
        That mailing, along with other direct marketing campaigns that Mr. Weintz conceived, was credited in large part for raising the magazine's circulation, which had fallen by 25 percent to 4.5 million in 1948, when Mr. Weintz was hired. When he left in 1959 to open his own direct marketing agency in Norwalk, monthly circulation exceeded 12 million.
        Mr. Weintz also devised the direct marketing campaign for the Reader's Digest Condensed Books; the books' profits long accounted for the biggest percentage of the Digest's worldwide publishing operations.
        ''The mail order business is a strange combination of wild ideas and caution,'' Mr. Weintz wrote in his memoir, ''The Solid Gold Mailbox'' (Wiley, 1987). ''It is fascinating and exciting because with a good idea you can make a fortune overnight simply by mailing out a few thousand or a few million sales letters -- or, with a bad idea, poorly planned and executed, you can lose that fortune with equal ease.''
        His direct mail campaigns for the Weintz Company helped increase the circulation of McCall's and helped  start the Better Homes and Gardens Crafts Club.
        In 1952, he began helping the Republican National Finance Committee, and in 1972 raised $22 million for the committee, and an additional $10 million or so to re-elect President Richard M. Nixon. In his memoir, Mr. Weintz said that about 80 percent of the Republican National Finance Committee's budget in 1972 came from small donations raised through direct mail solicitation.
        Mr. Weintz was born in New York on April 12, 1915, and graduated from Duke University in 1935. He enlisted in the Navy in 1943, and later commanded a landing-craft support vessel in the Pacific.
        In addition to his wife and son Walter, of Ossining, N.Y., who is the publishing director of the Random House adult trade division, Mr. Weintz is survived by two other sons, Todd, of Reading, Conn., the president of the Weintz Agency, and Steven, of Little Rock, Ark.; two daughters, Katherine Teck of White Plains  and Sally Secrist of Mount Vernon, Ohio, and eight grandchildren.
      