
        John Langeloth Loeb Sr., a leading member of the investment community who was long the head of the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company, a predecessor of Shearson Lehman/American Express, died yesterday at his Upper East Side home in Manhattan. He was 94 and also had homes in Purchase, N.Y., and Lyford Cay, Nassau, the Bahamas.
        Mr. Loeb died in his sleep about 6 A.M. and he had been going daily to his office in midtown Manhattan until about eight weeks ago, said his son John Langeloth Loeb Jr.
        John Loeb Sr., a philanthropist who was active in political affairs as well as a pillar of Wall Street's Old Guard, was a founder with his father and two others of Carl M. Loeb & Company in 1931. That firm merged with Rhoades & Company in 1937 to form what became Loeb, Rhoades.
        In 1984, after a succession of mergers in the intervening years, he was named an honorary chairman of the successor firm, Shearson Lehman/American Express, a subsidiary of the American Express Company.
        Although he played no active role in Shearson, he continued to be involved for years in managing his family's investments and in numerous philanthropic activities, working regularly in his office in Manhattan.
        At his death, he still controlled a boutique investment banking firm, the Loeb Partners Corporation. He was on the boards of Deltec, an investment banking firm, and of charitable and educational foundations. After his death, associates said his total contributions to cultural, educational and other nonprofit institutions over the years, including will bequests, totaled about $200 million.
        His versatility and shrewdness, along with sizable amounts of capital, did much to nourish the success of Loeb, Rhoades. Among his talents, admirers said, was a fine sense of timing. He managed to complete the sale of Loeb, Rhoades's major holdings in Cuba, for example, the day before Fidel Castro came to power.
        The tall, imposing, impeccably dressed Mr. Loeb was a partner in the firm from 1931 to 1955 and senior partner from 1955 to 1977. In the summer of 1977, having become chairman, Mr. Loeb resumed overall management responsibility at Loeb, Rhoades -- with the title of chief executive -- taking the place of Carl M. Mueller, who had succeeded him as the firm's top manager in 1973.
        In 1978, Loeb, Rhoades merged with Hornblower, Weeks, Noyes & Trask to form Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower & Company, and Mr. Loeb became co-chairman of the combined firm's finance committee. In 1979, Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower, with severe back-office problems, merged with Shearson Hayden Stone to form Shearson Loeb Rhoades.
        In 1981, Shearson Loeb Rhoades was acquired by the American Express Company, becoming Shearson/American Express. That firm in turn acquired Lehman Brothers, Kuhn Loeb, forming the American Express subsidiary, which no longer exists in that form.
        Over the years, Loeb, Rhoades had remained to a considerable extent a family affair, with John Loeb's partners including his brother, Henry; his son, John Loeb Jr., and two nephews. Even in his 70's, Mr. Loeb remained the dominant personality inside the firm while exercising great influence on the outside as well. One widely quoted cartoon depicted him as telling his wife, ''No, I didn't have a hard time at the office, but everybody else at Loeb, Rhoades did.''
        The upper reaches of the business world were Mr. Loeb's by birthright. He was born on Nov. 11, 1902, in St. Louis, the son of Carl Morris Loeb, an immigrant from Germany. Carl Loeb made a fortune early in life by gaining control of the American Metal Company and went on to become a co-founder with his son and two other partners of Loeb, Rhoades.
        John Loeb's mother was the former Adeline Moses, an Alabama banker's daughter who traced her American lineage to pre-Revolutionary times. After briefly attending Dartmouth College, Mr. Loeb transferred to Harvard College and graduating from there in 1924. He worked for American Metal from 1924 to 1928, in its Pittsburgh and New York offices, and then was with Wertheim & Company in 1929 and 1930 before co-founding Loeb, Rhoades.
        During part of World War II, from 1942 to 1944, he left Loeb, Rhoades to work for the Treasury and the Office of War Mobilization.
        John Loeb's son and namesake was also interested in finance, and for a time John Loeb Sr. hoped John Loeb Jr. would also lead the firm. But the son's promotions generated controversy within the firm, and after serving as president from 1971 to 1973, he became a limited partner and then Ambassador to Denmark.
        The elder John Loeb had a longstanding interest in politics. In 1964, he was an organizer of a blue-ribbon business group, the National Independent Committee for President Johnson and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, who was Lyndon B. Johnson's running mate that year. In 1973, Mr. Loeb pleaded no contest in Federal court to three charges of having disguised campaign contributions to Senator Humphrey's 1972 Presidential primary campaign.
        Pursuing their interest in public affairs, Mr. Loeb and his wife, the former Frances Lehman, entertained senators, mayors, governors and other political figures in their 14-room East Side home. They were also collectors of French Impressionist paintings, including canvases by Manet, Pissaro, Degas, Cezanne, and Renoir.
        Mr. Loeb was long active, too, as a philanthropist. In one 15-year period,  he gave about $5 million to Harvard, including the Frances L. Loeb Library, the Loeb Drama Center and a succession of annual Loeb fellowships. In 1981, he gave the university an additional $7.5 million.
        Then, in 1955, he gave Harvard a gift estimated at $70.5 million, Joe Wrinn, a Harvard spokesman, said yesterday. Mr. Wrinn said that the gift was the largest Harvard had ever received from a living benefactor. Recipients of funds from the gift have included Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences and School of Public Health. Harvard's president, Neil L. Rudenstine, said yesterday, ''John understood instinctively what the most important needs of a university were.''
        Another major beneficiary of Mr. Loeb's largesse was New York University. After he gave $7 million to its Institute of Fine Arts, he declined an offer to rename the institute for him.
        In his later years, Mr. Loeb became a friend of Mayor Teddy Kollek of Jerusalem and became deeply interested in Israel, where his philanthropic activities included the founding of a community center in East Jerusalem.
        He was variously a director of Dome Petroleum, Allied Chemical, Seagram, General Instrument, Arlen Realty, the Empire Trust Company, the Rome Cable Company, the National Radiator Company and other companies; a governor of the New York Stock Exchange and a member of the advisory committee of the Bank of New York.
        He was also the chairman and a trustee of the Institute of Fine Arts, a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, chairman and chief executive of the Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation, and a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, the university's senior governing body.
        He married Miss Lehman, the daughter of Arthur Lehman of the Lehman Brothers banking firm, in 1926. She was the granddaughter of Adolph Lewisohn, the banker and philanthropist, and niece of Herbert H. Lehman, who later became Governor of New York and a Senator.
        Mrs. Loeb, New York City's Commissioner for the United Nations and the Consular Corps for 12 years in the 1960's and 70's, died last May.
        In addition to his son, John Jr., of Purchase, Mr. Loeb is survived by another son, Arthur Lehman Loeb of Manhattan; three daughters, Ann Loeb Bronfman of Washington, who is Arthur's twin, Judith Loeb Chiara of Purchase and Deborah Loeb Brice of London; 14 grandchildren, including Edgar Bronfman Jr., the president of Seagram; a brother, Henry A., of Manhattan; and a sister, Margaret Loeb Kempner of Purchase, and numerous great-grandchildren.
      