
        Jean-Pierre Levy, a leader of the French Resistance in World War II, died in Paris last Monday. He was 85.
        Mr. Levy, a reserved man who did not like to talk about his exploits during the war, created and led the Franc-Tireur (Irregular) organization in southern France, one of the pillars of the fight against the German occupation. As early as 1941, he edited a clandestine journal called Franc-Tireur and was active in the recruitment of Resistance fighters.
        In January 1942, Mr. Levy met Jean Moulin in Avignon. Moulin, who was later tortured and killed by the Nazis, had been charged with coordinating domestic resistance groups by de Gaulle, the leader of the London-based Free French Movement.
        In this sometimes difficult task of uniting distinct Resistance groups,  Mr. Levy played an important role through his quiet diplomatic skills.
        Maintaining links with British intelligence and securing weapons through parachute drops by British planes, he organized a number of effective acts of sabotage against the Nazis and their Vichy French surrogates in late 1942. Those helped to keep French industry from contributing to the German war effort.
        When the United Resistance Movement was created in 1943, Mr. Levy joined its directorate alongside Moulin. Throughout that year, he worked closely with de Gaulle in London and, briefly, Algiers. But in January 1944, he was arrested by the Vichy police.
        After six months in prison in Paris, Mr. Levy escaped as he was being transferred from La Sante to the Fresnes jail. He was then able to play a major role in the liberation of Paris.
        Born in Strasbourg on May 28, 1911, Mr. Levy never sought the limelight. After the war he worked in several industrial jobs, including a term at Renault, before presiding over the National Center for the Exploitation of the Oceans from 1971 to 1976. He also contributed to books about the Resistance and helped associations of former Resistance fighters.
        For his contribution to the liberation of France, Mr. Levy received several awards, including the Military Cross and the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor.
      