
        Monroe Green, a former vice president of The New York Times who directed the newspaper's advertising department through more than two decades of significant innovation and growth, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92.
        When he joined The Times in 1942, Mr. Green had already established himself as something of a Wunderkind in New York advertising circles. By the time he retired in 1968, he was a legend who had more than doubled the newspaper's annual advertising linage, created a flourishing international operation and made The Times Magazine preeminent in fashion advertising.
        The only child of the operator of a small clothing store in South Amboy, N.J., Mr. Green, whose father died when he was 10, worked his way through the University of Pennsylvania, went to work for Macy's after his graduation in 1927, and five years later, at the age of 27, was the store's advertising manager.
        Three years later, he joined The New York American, becoming advertising director of The Journal-American after the merger with The Journal in 1936.
        Mr. Green, who came to The Times as a member of the retail advertising staff, became the department store advertising manager less than a year later and in 1946 was named advertising director, a role he played under various titles until his retirement.
        Among his many innovations at the newspaper were the development of annual business and financial reviews and special advertising sections.
        Mr. Green was proud that advertising generated three times as much revenue as circulation sales and all the newspaper's other business ventures combined, but at a newspaper whose reporters and editors pride themselves on proving their independence from the business side, his was sometimes a thankless task.
        As Gay Talese recounted in his 1969 book about The Times, ''The Kingdom and the Power,'' there was the time, for example, when Mr. Green, noticing some apartment construction on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River, persuaded the builder to buy an advertising supplement to lure tenants to the project.
        But when the newspaper ran an editorial condemning the project as a desecration of the natural skyline, it was Mr. Green and not the anonymous editorial writer who had to take the heat from the disgruntled builder.
        By far Mr. Green's most visible innovation was building The Times Magazine into a leading vehicle for fashion advertising.
        Taking advantage of a relaxation of strictures imposed by the newspaper's advertising acceptability department (which had long decreed that women did not have navels), Mr. Green, recognizing the buying power of women, attracted so many lingerie ads to the magazine during the 1960's that it became known in some circles as the Girdle Gazette.
        Mr. Green was untroubled by such snickers. By the time of his retirement, the magazine had for several years published more lines of advertising than any other magazine in the country.
        Mr. Green, whose first wife, the former Ruth Gast, died in 1979, is survived by his wife, Jean; a son, George, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Nancy Friedman of Cincinnati, and four grandchildren.
      