
        Nguyen Huu Tho, a Communist leader in the South during the Vietnam War who went on to senior Government posts after the Communists won and reunified the country, died on Tuesday in Ho Chi Minh City, the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry announced yesterday. He was 86.
        Mr. Tho was born near Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City) and was educated there and in France, becoming a lawyer, a leftist and an active opponent of France's colonial rule of Vietnam, which ended in the mid-1950's.
        Early in his career, he spent several years in jail or under house arrest for offenses that included activities opposing the French. He escaped detention in the early 1960's and in 1962 became chairman of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam, which was organized by Ho Chi Minh, the paramount Vietnamese Communist leader.
        The front's official mission has been described as a general revolt in South Vietnam that would lead to a Communist revolution, which in turn would reunite the South with the Communist North. The front was the political arm of the Vietcong, the insurgent force in South Vietnam that fought along with the North Vietnamese Army to gain control of the South.
        Stanley Karnow, an expert on Asia, expressed a widely held view in 1983 when he wrote in ''Vietnam: A History'' (Viking Penguin) that the front, ''as a southern movement, was intended to serve to underpin Hanoi's claim that North Vietnam was not sending forces into the South.''
        Mr. Tho was ''supposed to attract a wide spectrum of supporters,'' Mr. Karnow wrote, ''but he was merely a figurehead; the front's real leadership resided in the People's Revolutionary party and the Liberation army, its Communist components, which took their orders from the politburo in Hanoi,'' North Vietnam's capital.
        As the front's chairman, Mr. Tho wrote a letter of condolence in 1965 to the family of Norman Morrison, a Baltimore Quaker who died after setting himself on fire to protest the war in Vietnam. The letter said, ''We express our admiration and gratitude towards the sublime self-immolation of Norman Morrison for the cause of justice of our two nations and for peace of progressive mankind.''
        He also visited the Soviet Union and China during the war, and in a New Year's message broadcast to Vietcong troops and their supporters in January 1971, he declared that the Vietcong would fight South Vietnam's forces until the anti-Communist Government in Saigon was ousted.
        He remained the front's chairman after the Communists won the war. He was also chairman of an advisory body, the consultative council of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam, from 1969 to 1976.
        After the Communists officially reunified Vietnam in 1976, Mr. Tho was appointed to one of two vice presidential posts,
        By 1980, he was one of the few southerners in the predominantly northern Vietnamese Communist leadership. He was Vietnam's Acting President in 1980 and 1981 and Vice President of the Council of State in the 1980's.
        Mr. Tho had been said to have retired from political life in 1994, but a Vietnamese Government radio broadcast said in July that he was a member of the newly elected central committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam.
        No information about any survivors was immediately available.
      