
        Dr. James Chester Raulston, a generous-spirited giant among horticulturists who was director of the arboretum at North Carolina State University in Raleigh and devoted his life to growing and distributing new plants, died late Saturday night in a car crash just east of Asheboro, N.C. He was 56.
        Horticulturists were stunned by the loss of one of their leading teachers, who, with the help of students,  transformed an eight-acre patch of the North Carolina State campus 20 years ago into a collection of 7,000 woody plants that became one of the nation's outstanding arboretums.
        ''It's considered the most diverse collection of woody plants in the United States,'' said Tony Avent, a former student of Dr. Raulston who owns Plant Delights Nursery in Raleigh, a nursery that is known for its rare plants and was one of the many beneficiaries of Dr. Raulston's generosity.
        ''I'd say about 3,000 of the plants in our garden came from the arboretum,'' Mr. Avent said. ''His mission was to find out what plants to grow and how to get them to people.''
        Mr. Avent was among the students who helped create the arboretum at North Carolina State, planting the hollies behind a 400-foot perennial border designed by another student, Edith Edelman, who went on to design many gardens of her own.
        The arboretum was built after  Fielding Scarborough, a graduate student of Dr. Raulston, asked to design one for his master's thesis. Dr. Raulston suggested that he draw a plan, and then proceeded to plant woody shrubs and trees with his students.
        ''The university woke up one day and said, 'Where did this arboretum come from?' '' Mr. Avent recalled.
        Mr. Avent's first job out of school was working for the state fairgrounds. ''I planted an arboretum there -- with 3,000 plants from N.C. State, so more than one million people see them.''
        That was the kind of spirit Dr.  Raulston inspired.
        ''At least once a year, we'd get a great big cardboard box of 100 plants we'd never seen before,'' said Marco Polo Stefano, horticulture director of Wave Hill, a public garden in the Bronx that is renowned for its own plant collections. ''He was the source of some of the choicest stuff that has come into the country. His whole life was giving plants away and sharing. He didn't have any of that horrible aspect of some people in horticulture: 'I have the only one, and you can't have any of it.' ''
        Driven by his zeal, Dr. Raulston was always on the road, crisscrossing North Carolina, lecturing and giving away plants.
        Only three years ago, he received  the prized Thomas Roland Medal, given by the Massachusetts Horticulture Society. He had been nominated for it by Peter Del Tredici, the director of living collections at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University.
        ''He was a selfless advocate for broadening and improving the selection of horticultural plants,'' Mr. Del Tredici said. ''And he distributed quite literally millions of cuttings and seedlings to the nursery industry and botanic gardens.''
        Dr. Raulston collected seeds and plants from places as distant as China and Sohuksan Island, a speck of land a two-day voyage off the South Korean coast, and as near as the North Carolina roadsides.
        ''He would bring this material in for trial and immediately begin propagating it through his classes,'' Mr. Del Tredici said. ''The students would bag up the cuttings and drive around to trade shows and nurseries. That's what I mean by introduction and distribution. He never enriched his own pocket.
        ''He was like a ball of fire. There was no stopping him. He would get his hands on something, and before you knew it he would have 1,000 of them.''
        Dr. Raulston lived in an old converted warehouse in downtown Raleigh, and loved to entertain horticulturists from all over the world there.
        ''He kept a bowl of keys, with a map of the rooms,'' Mr. Avent said. ''So even when he wasn't home, people could stay there. It was kind of a Who's Who of horticulture.''
        He also left his Nissan station wagon, with the keys. ''It was nothing to see people driving J. C.'s car throughout the Southeast,'' Mr. Avent said.
        Dr. Raulston grew up on a wheat farm in Oklahoma. He received a bachelor's degree from Oklahoma State University in 1962 and a doctorate in horticulture from the University of Maryland in 1966.
        He received dozens of honors for his work, including the Outstanding Public Garden Program Award from the American Association of Botanic Gardens and Arboreta in 1992. He was the author, with Kim E. Tripp, of ''The Year in Trees: Superb Woody Plants for Four-Season Gardens,'' published in 1995 by Timber Press.
        He was an only child and then a bachelor, and leaves no survivors --  except for his hundreds of friends, and millions of plants.
      