
        Alain Poher, a central figure in French politics for half a century who twice served as the nation's caretaker President, died on Monday. He was 87.
        His death, in a clinic in Paris, was announced by the French Senate, which he led for 24 years. The statement did not disclose the cause of his death, but Mr. Poher had been hospitalized for several months.
        A lifelong politician, he became best known as interim President of France.
        He held the post for seven weeks after Gen. Charles de Gaulle resigned in 1969 and again for seven weeks after the death of President Georges Pompidou in 1974. Under the French Constitution, the President of the Senate takes over when the elected president is unable to serve.
        Mr. Poher, a member of the center-right Centrist Union bloc, was a Senator for 49 years and the Speaker for 24 years. He was elected to that office for the last time in 1989, retiring from the Senate just four years ago.
        Although he had a low-key political style, he did not shrink from confrontation, at one time fiercely opposing  de Gaulle in his attempt to limit the Senate's powers. Later, his colleagues said, he had a running feud with Francois Mitterrand, whose socialist ideas he opposed.
        Alain Poher was born in 1909 in Ablon-sur-Seine, a village near Paris, as the son of a railroad worker. He studied engineering and at first held low-level government jobs. His first elected post was that of Mayor of his village, a post he held for 23 years while continuing in other Government jobs and as a Senator.
        Among his European contemporaries, he became known as an ardent supporter of preparations for the European Community. He served as President of the European Parliament from 1966 to 1969.
        The man who succeeded Mr. Poher as the Senate Speaker in 1992, Rene Monory, was one of many politicians who praised Mr. Poher and his long career of public service.
        ''I learned a lot from him,'' Mr. Monory said. ''We must also not forget that he played a key role in the French Resistence and in the construction of Europe.''
      