
        Larry Gates, a character actor with a 50-year career in theater, films and television, died Thursday at a hospital in Sharon, Conn. He was 81 and lived in Cornwall, Conn.
        Mr. Gates was an actor's actor, admired by other actors and by theatergoers for his versatility. With buoyant humor, he often played comedy, appearing in plays by Shaw and Moliere, and on Broadway in John Patrick's ''Teahouse of the August Moon.'' In 1963, he was nominated for a Tony Award as best supporting actor for his role in the courtroom drama ''A Case of Libel.''
        At various Shakespeare festivals, he portrayed Falstaff and other of Shakespeare's great comic roles, and also did ''King Lear'' twice, the second time in 1981 for the Great Lakes Shakespeare Festival in Cleveland. He was a memorable Polonius and First Gravedigger (to Sam Waterston's Hamlet) for the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1975. His Polonius bore a physical (and emotional) resemblance to Hubert H. Humphrey: a loyal counselor affirming the politics of joy and pragmatism.
        Occasionally he was called upon to play fictional representations of real-life people: Bernard Baruch in the movie ''Funny Lady,'' Dean Rusk in the television film ''The Missiles of October'' and Herbert Hoover in television's ''Backstairs at the White House.'' He often played lawyers and judges, and in 1978 was the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court in ''First Monday in October'' on Broadway.
        Offstage he spoke out as a council member of Actors Equity, and by raising public objections to blacklisting and loyalty oaths. He said: ''When I see something wrong I'm going to raise hell. That's the way I'm put together.''
        In his acting, however, he could project a gentleness and at times a bluff heartiness, which worked very much in his favor when he played roles like Orgon in ''Tartuffe,'' for the Lincoln Center Repertory Theater.
        Mr. Gates was born in St. Paul, Minn. While studying chemical engineering at the University of Minnesota, he acted in student productions. In 1938, he came to New York to be an actor. Auditioning for the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va., he read ''A Christmas Carol.'' Onstage, he tripped, dropped the book and fell on his face. To the sound of laughter, he picked himself up and continued his performance. Laurette Taylor happened to be watching, and said, ''Young man, you're stark raving mad, but you're an actor if I ever saw one.''
        With that encouragement, he worked at the Barter and then made his New York debut in 1939 in ''Speak of the Devil.'' After serving in the Army, he returned to acting, touring with the Margaret Webster Shakespeare Company and, in 1951, appearing on Broadway in ''Bell, Book and Candle'' with Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer. Two years later he acted with the couple again in Peter Ustinov's ''Love of Four Colonels.''
        His films include ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' ''Some Came Running,'' ''The Sand Pebbles'' and ''In the Heat of the Night.'' During the days of live television he appeared in ''Studio One,'' ''Playhouse 90'' and many other shows and in 1985 won an Emmy award for his work as a prosecuting attorney on ''Guiding Light.''
        He is survived by his wife, Judith, and a sister, Ursula Wassberg of Melbourne, Fla.
      