
        Harry Kemelman, the author of a popular series of 11 mystery novels  that feature a small-town rabbi as their offbeat sleuth, died on Sunday at his home in Marblehead, Mass. He was 88.
        In most of the books in the droll series, which began with ''Friday the Rabbi Slept Late'' in 1964, Rabbi David Small is the spiritual leader of a synagogue in Barnard's Crossing, on the Massachusetts coast. As it happens, the fictional town bears a curious resemblance to Marblehead, and Mr. Kemelman's gently satirical portraits of some of its residents have won readers' praise.
        The last book in the series, ''That Day the Rabbi Left Town,'' was published in February by Fawcett.
        Critics praised Mr. Kemelman's deft character sketches and his convincing evocation of life in his fictional town. Leona Nevler, who edited Mr. Kemelman's last two books and was involved in the publication of the mass-market paperback editions of all 11 Rabbi Small mysteries, suggested that what made the books work was largely Mr. Kemelman's delineation of the ''character of the rabbi, who was a kind of younger version of Harry himself.''
        Mr. Kemelman, she said, ''was uncompromising, dedicated to what he believed was right and really wonderfully adept at explaining to non-Jews and to less observant Jews what Judaism is all about.''
        Ms. Nevler said Rabbi Small was also notable, in the motley universe of fictional sleuths, for solving crimes through the application of Talmudic logic. She also suggested that many readers were interested in the rabbi's ability to explain various Jewish laws and customs.
        All told, she said, more than seven million copies of Mr. Kemelman's books about Rabbi Small -- including ''Conversations With Rabbi Small,''  which was not a mystery -- have been distributed in hard and soft cover.
        Otto Penzler, the owner of the Mysterious Bookshop on West 56th Street in Manhattan, said that Mr. Kemelman ''was to rabbis what G. K. Chesterton was to priests,'' comparing the series to Chesterton's detective stories featuring a sleuth named Father Brown.
        Mr. Kemelman was born in Boston to Isaac Kemelman and the former Dora Prizer and received a bachelor's degree in 1930 from Boston University and a master's degree in linguistics in 1931 from Harvard. He went on to teach in Boston public schools from 1935 to 1941 and in Northeastern University's evening division from 1938 to 1941.
        He was a Boston port executive from 1942 to 1949 and then a freelance writer and a teacher at the Franklin Institute in Boston and at Boston State College.
        In ''That Day the Rabbi Left Town,'' Rabbi Small has, surprisingly, quit his post at the Barnard's Crossing Temple and begun teaching Judaic studies at a small private college in Boston. The book involves the suspicious death of an unlovable professor, and in its pages Boston academics, like the members of the temple's board, are ripe for a humorous approach.
        The other rabbi mysteries are ''Saturday the Rabbi Went Hungry'' (1966), ''Sunday the Rabbi Stayed Home'' (1969), ''Monday the Rabbi Took Off'' (1972), ''Tuesday the Rabbi Saw Red'' (1973), ''Wednesday the Rabbi Got Wet'' (1976), ''Thursday the Rabbi Walked Out'' (1978), ''Someday the Rabbi Will Leave'' (1985), ''One Fine Day the Rabbi Bought a Cross'' (1987) and ''The Day the Rabbi Resigned'' (1992).
        Mr. Kemelman is survived by his wife, the former Anne Kessin; two  daughters, Diane Volk of Manhattan and Ruth Rooks of Swampscott, Mass.; a son, Arthur, of Hod ha-Sharon, Israel; a sister, Lillian Marks of Cleveland; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      