
        Charles Hamilton Jr., the flamboyant autograph dealer and handwriting expert who invented the term philography to describe what he did with more panache than anybody else, died on Wednesday in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 82.
        His wife, Diane, said the cause was a heart attack.
        In a field in which uncertainty would be a passport to oblivion, Mr. Hamilton was never in danger of being overlooked.
        If he was exaggerating a bit when he claimed he could spot a forgery from across a room, by the time he branded the so-called Hitler diaries ''patent and obvious forgeries,'' in 1983, Mr. Hamilton had been proved right so many times -- that even Hugh Trevor-Roper, the British historian who had authenticated them, would have to accede to his opinion, which was eventually upheld when the forger was unmasked and convicted.
        Although the headlines he made exposing forgeries were useful publicity, Mr. Hamilton's real business  and abiding passion was the discovery and sale of the legitimate letters and other writings of men and women who made or illuminated history.
        ''Unless you have a soul made of solid lead,'' he once said, ''your pulse quickens and your eyes brighten when you look upon something that a great man actually held and into which he put his personal thoughts.''
        The first time Mr. Hamilton's pulse so quickened was at age 12, when he received an autograph he had requested from Rudyard Kipling after reading and being impressed with his ''Jungle Book.'' Kipling was known for refusing such requests,  but Mr. Hamilton had enclosed a dime to cover the return postage, explaining plaintively that it represented his week's allowance for carrying out the furnace ashes.
        Mr. Hamilton, who was born in Ludington, Mich., grew up in Flint and in Los Angeles. He was the valedictorian of his Beverly Hills High School class and majored in English literature at the University of California at Los Angeles, where he obtained a master's degree.
        But he had a problem with authority, and was advised not to pursue an academic career. For all his formal education, Mr. Hamilton was in some ways self-taught, a voracious reader of literature and history who might  speed through five books in a day. He  retained such a wealth of ''useless knowledge'' on so many subjects that he was forever impressing clients with his mastery of minutiae.
        Coming to Manhattan in 1938, he worked at a variety of jobs in advertising and publishing before enlisting in the Army Air Corps in 1942, and winning six battle stars and a bronze star in Europe. He said he turned down three opportunities to become an officer because because he found the military hierarchy undemocratic.
        Resuming civilian life, he again worked in advertising and publishing while pursuing his hobby as a collector and occasionally supplementing his income by selling autographs to other collectors. When he turned a 50-cent purchase into a $100 sale in a matter of weeks, he decided he could make a living as a dealer.
        He set up shop at the age of 39 in 1953. Later he began selling his wares at public auction, generally after newspaper articles had described his latest rare or juicy find.
        Within a few years Mr. Hamilton's shock of white hair was as familiar to New York newspaper readers as his sometimes imperious personality was grating to other dealers, for whom he represented the brash upstart who, for all his enthusiasm for a letter in Lord Byron's own hand, would as gladly sell a Charles Manson autograph.
        Mr. Hamilton, who said he drew the line only at stolen letters or those that would embarrass a living person, built up such a thriving business  in letters from Presidents, First Ladies and other contemporary figures that his time became occupied with not selling such letters.
        There was the time in 1965, for example, when Secret Service agents went to Mr. Hamilton to demand that he return a letter that Jacqueline Kennedy had sent to Lyndon B. Johnson's wife, Lady Bird, and that the dealer had received from a former Johnson aide.
        Mr. Hamilton obliged, but only after he had released the contents of the innocuous note to The Washington Post and alerted The New York Times. The Times ran a page 1 article about the incident and a photograph showing Secret Service agents shielding their faces as they left his East 53d Street shop.
        Competition from other auction houses led him to close his business in the mid-1980's, but he continued to work as a consultant, expert witness and author.
        Among Mr. Hamilton's 17 published books are ''Collecting Autographs and Manuscripts'' (1962), ''Great Forgers and Famous Fakes'' (1980), ''American Autographs'' (1983) and ''The Hitler Diaries: Fakes That Fooled the World'' (1994).
        But for all the glee he derived from exposing forgeries, his proudest achievement was in verifying -- to his own satisfaction, at least -- that Shakespeare had written his own will  as well as a play, ''Cardenio,'' never previously attributed to him.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hamilton is survived by two sons, Charles Hamilton 3d and Brooks, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Carolyn Hamilton-O'Neil of Brooklyn and Cynthia, of Manhattan; and a sister, Elinor Maites of San Francisco.
      