
       Marguerite Yourcenar, a writer and classical scholar and the first woman to be named to the Academie Francaise, died Thursday night at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me. She was 84 years old.
        Marguerite Yourcenar, a writer and classical scholar and the first woman to be named to the Academie Francaise, died Thursday night at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me. She was 84 years old.
        Miss Yourcenar was a cosmopolitan, versatile woman of letters who wrote in her native French. To English-speaking readers, she was best known for her fiction, especially her 1951 novel ''Memoirs of Hadrian.'' Her other writings included essays, memoirs and plays.
        On hearing of her death, Prime Minister Jacques Chirac of France said yesterday in Paris: ''French letters has just lost an exceptional woman. On the strength of a classical and rigorous style, Marguerite Yourcenar used a very personal tone to find, thanks to history, the occasion for a strong reflection on morality and power.'' 'Words Will Be Read Forever'
        Roger W. Straus, the president and chief executive officer of Farrar Straus & Giroux, which has published works by Miss Yourcenar, said yesterday in a statement released at the Manhattan headquarters of the publishing house: ''Marguerite Yourcenar was without question or doubt one of the great writers of the 20th century. She is a great loss to the literary community, but her words will be read and remembered forever.''
        Born in Brussels of a French father and Belgian mother, Miss Yourcenar grew up in France and traveled widely. On a visit to the United States early in World War II, she decided to stay when, as she once put it, ''the months stretched into years as the war didn't end.'' For the next decade she taught comparative literature at Sarah Lawrence College. She acquired United States citizenship in 1947 but was later reinstated as a citizen of France.
        ''I am rootless,'' she told an interviewer in 1979. ''To steal from Hadrian, 'I am at home everywhere and nowhere.' ''
        Her induction into the Academie Francaise in 1981 was an accolade that had been denied to Mme. de Stael, Colette and other illustrious Frenchwomen in the four-century history of that prestigious society of 40 ''immortals,'' the arbiters of French language and literature. 'Let Their Shadows Pass'
        Commenting on her induction, Miss Yourcenar said: ''This uncertain, floating me, whose existence I myself dispute, here it is, surrounded, accompanied by an invisible troupe of women who perhaps should have received this honor long before, so that I am tempted to stand aside to let their shadows pass.''
        She also said the academy was not to blame for not admitting women sooner. ''One cannot say,'' she said, ''that in French society, so impregnated with feminine influences, the academy has been a notable misogynist: it simply conformed to the custom that willingly placed a woman on a pedestal but did not permit itself to officially offer her a chair.''
        Miss Yourcenar was respected as a classical scholar as well as a literary stylist. The Oxford University classicist Hugh Lloyd-Jones, writing in The New York Times Book Review in February 1985, praised her ''ornamental and melliflous French prose, studded with the literary allusions which come so easily to such a cultivated writer.'' Mixing Scholarship and Magic
        Miss Yourcenar once said her writing had ''one foot in scholarship, the other in magic arts,'' and her interests were diverse.
        Shortly before her death, in an interview with Jean-Pierre Corteggiani for the new quarterly Normal, Miss Yourcenar spoke of her views on literature:
        ''The books I like best are those where there is intelligence, goodness and no injustice. They are very rare indeed. I think that the reason there is so much bad literature, or at least one of the reasons, is that the average person who sets out to be a writer goes around looking for subjects to write about, and editors have the effrontery to ask you: 'Could you not possibly write a novel about . . . or an essay on . . .,' to which I always reply that I never write anything I have not chosen myself.''
        Her works ranged from ''Memoirs of Hadrian'' - an imaginary autobiography of the Roman emperor written as a letter to his grandson Marcus Aurelius - to a volume of stories, ''Oriental Tales'' (first published in 1938 in French), that drew on the folklore of medieval Japan and other cultures. Translated American Spirituals
        She also wrote plays, poems and prose poems and translated into French the lyrics of American spirituals as well as works by such authors as James Baldwin, the modern Greek poet Constantine Cavafy, Henry James, Thomas Mann, Yukio Mishima and Virginia Woolf.
        The Hadrian novel was widely considered Miss Yourcenar's magnum opus. The author Stephen Koch wrote in The Times Book Review in September 1985 that the work ''has riches for anyone interested in history, humanism or the psychology of power.'' When it was first published, he recalled, ''it was immediately incrusted with the mixed and marmoreal honor of being called a classic in its own time.''
        Miss Yourcenar's criticism was praised by John Gross in The Times. Reviewing the English translation of her book ''The Dark Brain of Piranesi and Other Essays,'' Mr. Gross called her ''an outstanding critic'' and said the essays in the book were notably lucid and ''forceful, deeply pondered, the record of a full imaginative response.''
        The rest of her work, which drew on her familiarity with several languages and literatures, remained less widely known until she was named to the Academie Francaise. In subsequent years, translations of her writing came out more frequently. Translations Are Published
        In April, ''Two Lives and a Dream,'' a volume containing three stories by Miss Yourcenar, was published in an English translation by Walter Kaiser in collaboraton with the author.
        The book had come out in 1982 in France, and the stories it contained were revisions of writing Miss Yourcenar did decades earlier. Farrar Straus & Giroux is to publish a paperback edition in April.
        ''Mishima: a Vision of the Void,'' a short study by Miss Yourcenar of the Japanese writer Yukio Mishima, was published here in 1986.
        Farrar Straus is also scheduled to publish a collection of essays and literary criticism next spring titled ''That Mighty Sculptor, Time.'' In addition, Farrar Straus is to publish three volumes of autobiography by Ms. Yourcenar, but no publication dates have been set.
        The other books by Miss Yourcenar that have appeared in the United States in English translation include, in addition to ''Memoirs of Hadrian,'' ''Coup de Grace'' (1957), ''The Abyss'' (1976), ''Fires'' (1981), ''A Coin in Nine Hands'' (1982), ''The Dark Brain of Piranesi'' (1984), ''Alexis'' (1984) and ''Oriental Tales'' (1985). Read Racine at 8
        Miss Yourcenar was born June 8, 1903, the only child of Michel de Crayencour and the former Fernande de Cartier de Marchienne. The name Yourcenar - which she assumed personally and professionally in the 1920's - is an imperfect anagram of the name Crayencour.
        Her mother died when Marguerite was less than a month old, and she was educated, largely by tutors, under the direction of her father. As an 8-year-old, she was already reading the work of the 17th-century French dramatist Racine, and as a teen-ager she had two small books of verse published.
        Then, as an independently wealthy young woman, she traveled widely, wrote essays, poems and fiction, and won praise as a novelist. In 1950, after settling in the United States, Miss Yourcenar and her American friend and companion, Grace Frick, bought the house in Northeast Harbor - on Mount Desert Island off the Maine coast -that became their longtime home. Miss Frick, who translated ''Memoirs of Hadrian'' and other works by Miss Yourcenar into English, died in 1979.
        Miss Yourcenar was known to have prepared a tombstone for her eventual grave, complete up to the final two digits of the date of her death. In the interview with Normal, Miss Yourcenar said she had met a Frenchwoman who was horrified that she had even put the first two numbers of her death date on the marker. ''So she said 'but why should you not live to the year 2000?' I have absolutely no desire to live till the year 2000,'' Miss Yourcenar said. ''The year 2000 is not for me.''
        Miss Yourcenar was awarded honorary degrees by Smith, Bowdoin and Colby colleges. She also won numerous European literary prizes, was decorated by the French and Belgian Governments and was a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and the Academy of the French Language and Literature of Belgium.
        There are no known survivors.
      