
       Peter Darrell, the English choreographer and artistic director of the Scottish Ballet, died of a hemorrhage Tuesday while awaiting throat surgery at the Ruthhill Hospital in Glasgow. He was 58 years old.
        Peter Darrell, the English choreographer and artistic director of the Scottish Ballet, died of a hemorrhage Tuesday while awaiting throat surgery at the Ruthhill Hospital in Glasgow. He was 58 years old.
        Mr. Darrell, born in Richmond, England, trained at the Sadler's Wells school, later the Royal Ballet school. He was one of the first members of the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, which he left to work in musicals and to dance abroad.
        He then danced with the London Festival Ballet, where he created his first dances. With Elizabeth West, Mr. Darrell in 1957 founded the Western Theater Ballet, first based in Bristol, then London. He remained as director and chief choreographer when the company moved to Glasgow and was renamed the Scottish Theater Ballet, then the Scottish Ballet.
        Among the works he created for the Scottish Ballet were productions of ''Giselle,'' ''Swan Lake,'' ''Cinderella,'' ''The Nutcracker'' and ''Tales of Hoffmann,'' which he revived for the American Ballet Theater in 1973. He also created a large number of one-act ballets, many of them set to music by contemporary composers. The Scottish Ballet danced at Spoleto U.S.A. in 1986.
        Mr. Darrell's ballets tended to be dramatic, with plots or a strong theatrical atmosphere. Perceived as England's leading anti-Establishment choreographer and company director in the 1960's, he created ballets on such themes as homosexuality, mental illness and murder.
        But Mr. Darrell, who was also known for his geniality and easy temperament, stayed true to the ballet idiom.
        ''I believe in classic ballet,'' he once said. ''It's as good a language as any, if not better, to say what's going on around us. Or it would not have lasted as long as it has.''
        Mr. Darrell is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Skinner of Glasgow.
      