
       Frederic V. Grunfeld, an author and journalist whose biography of the French sculptor Auguste Rodin was published last month, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Barcelona, Spain. He was 58 years old and lived near Deya, Majorca.
        Frederic V. Grunfeld, an author and journalist whose biography of the French sculptor Auguste Rodin was published last month, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Barcelona, Spain. He was 58 years old and lived near Deya, Majorca.
        Mr. Grunfeld, who grew up in the Kew Gardens section of Queens after his family fled Nazi Germany, died at the home of friends in Barcelona, where he had stopped on his way back to Majorca from a visit to New York City.
        The visit was in connection with the publication of his book ''Rodin: a Biography'' by Henry Holt & Company.
        In a page 1 review of ''Rodin'' in the Dec. 13 issue of The New York Times Book Review, Benedict Read calls Mr. Grunfeld's book ''an excellent job'' and says that it ''will undoubtedly serve as an excellent biography of the artist.'' The 738-page book also received praise in a review by John Gross in The New York Times on Nov. 27. Mr. Gross said the biography is ''a consistently absorbing story'' and ''a rewarding and illuminating book.'' Other Books and Work
        Mr. Grunfeld's other books included ''The Art and Times of the Guitar'' (1970), ''The Hitler File: A Social History of Germany and the Nazis, 1918-1945'' (1974) and ''Prophets Without Honour: A Background to Freud, Kafka, Einstein and Their World'' (1979).
        In addition, Mr. Grunfeld wrote or contributed to several works for Time-Life Books and Newsweek Books, including the Time-Life book ''Berlin,'' which came out in 1977, and ''The French Kings,'' which was published in 1982.
        He was also for three decades a cultural correspondent in Europe, working at different times for Horizon, The Reporter, Connoisseur and other publications.
        Mr. Grunfeld was tall, restless, erudite, bass-voiced, multilingual and fond of travel and of puns. In an interview for the Dec. 13 issue of The New York Times Book Review, he said he became interested in Rodin in his childhood in Berlin, where a cousin, Paul Cassirer, was Rodin's dealer. Later, in New York in the 1950's, Mr. Grunfeld came to know Edgar Varese, who had been a secretary to Rodin.
        Frederic Volker Grunfeld was born June 2, 1929, in Berlin to Franz V. Grunfeld, whose family first made its mark in the textile business with sales to the German army in the 19th century, and to the former Elli E. Neumann, a fashion designer. A Childhood Memory
        One of his early boyhood memories, he recalled in an article in the Travel section of The New York Times in May, was of watching a parade in Berlin in 1937 with his governess when ''a big SS man in a black uniform turned to me and said, 'Hey, kid, don't you want to see better?' ''
        ''Before I could reply,'' Mr. Grunfeld went on, ''he had scooped me up and lifted me to his shoulders, which gave me an almost alpine view of the parade, thank you very much.''
        His family fled Germany in 1938, and Mr. Grunfeld attended P.S. 144 in the Forest Hills section of Queens and Richmond Hill High School, also in Queens, before earning a bachelor's degree at the University of Chicago in 1949. He resumed his education in middle age, earning a Master of Fine Arts from Columbia University in 1974.
        In the 1950's in Manhattan, Mr. Grunfeld was among other things a broadcaster with WQXR, where he conducted the ''Music Magazine'' program on weekday evenings, and he wrote book reviews for The Times. He was also in the record industry for a time and worked for the Reporter magazine. He Was Working on a Book
        He moved to Majorca in 1961. He was European cultural correspondent of the Reporter until 1965 and a roving editor for Horizon from 1966 to 1977.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Grunfeld was working on a book about the Mediterranean Sea as a subject for European Romantic writers and artists in the 19th century. Rob Cowley, Mr. Grunfeld's editor at Henry Holt, said Wednesday that plans for the book were uncertain.
        Mr. Grunfeld was a retired colonel in the United States Army Reserve.
        Mr. Grunfeld's first two marriages, to Dorothy Miles Gregory and Jacoba Molenaar, ended in divorce. In 1976 he married Ann Mary O'Sullivan, who survives him.
        Mr. Grunfeld's other survivors include his mother and a sister, Svea, who live in Oregon, another sister, Inge Remak, of Bloomington, Ind. He is also survived by two children from his first marriage - a son, Foster V. Grunfeld of Manhattan, and a daughter, Laura Grunfeld of New Orleans - and two children from his third marriage -Jeffrey and Adam Grunfeld of Deya.
      