
       Rabbi Leo Jung, a prominent Orthodox Jewish leader, and for 65 years the spiritual leader of the Jewish Center of New York, died at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center Saturday, where he had been hospitalized after suffering a heart attack two weeks ago. Dr. Jung was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Rabbi Leo Jung, a prominent Orthodox Jewish leader, and for 65 years the spiritual leader of the Jewish Center of New York, died at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center Saturday, where he had been hospitalized after suffering a heart attack two weeks ago. Dr. Jung was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        An author and editor of 37 books, Dr. Jung became a professor of ethics at what then was Yeshiva College in New York in 1931. He served for many years as president of the Jewish Academy of Arts and Sciences, which he helped to organize.
        Dr. Jung was also a founding trustee, in 1931, of the Jewish Braille Institute. He was among the rabbis and biblical experts who spent five years guidingthe publication of a Braille edition of the Hebrew Scriptures, published in 1950.
        Dr. Jung played prominent roles in many organizations, including the Synagogue Council of America, the Rabbinical Council of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America and the Joint Distribution Committee. As chairman of the latter's cultural committee, he traveled widely to observe the condition of Jewish communities overseas. A Native of Moravia
        Dr. Jung was a native of Moravia, now part of Czechoslovakia, and studied at the Universities of Vienna and Berlin, Cambridge University and the University of London, where he earned a Ph.D. He received his Hebrew education at yeshivas in Hungary and in Berlin, where he was ordained in 1920 at the Hildesheimer Rabbinical Seminary.
        That year, he came to the United States to serve the Congregation of Knesseth Israel in Cleveland. The Jewish Center on West 86th Street in Manhattan, founded in 1917, called him in 1922 to become its rabbi. He reached emeritus status several years ago but had remained active at the congregation.
        He published ''Judaism in a Changing World'' in 1939 to tell the story of the Jewish people. Active in trying to save Jewish lives in Europe during World War II, Dr. Jung also played a role in helping to bring more than 9,000 refugees to the United States.
        When New York State established its Kosher Food Advisory Board in 1940, Dr. Jung was named its chairman.
        Dr. Jung is survived by his wife, the former Irma Rothschild; four daughters, Erna Villa of Jerusalem, Rosalie Rosenfeld of Gush Etzion, near Hebron, on the Occupied West Bank, Julie Etra of Lawrence, L.I., and Marcella Rosen of Manhattan; 12 grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      