
       Dr. Nicu Haas, an Israeli scientist who helped in the discovery of the only known remains of a man crucified in the time of Jesus, died last week after 13 years in a coma, colleagues said today. He was 60 years old.
        Dr. Nicu Haas, an Israeli scientist who helped in the discovery of the only known remains of a man crucified in the time of Jesus, died last week after 13 years in a coma, colleagues said today. He was 60 years old.
        Dr. Haas, who was born in Rumania, was an anthropologist at Hebrew University. He had been in a coma since he slipped and fell on ice near his home here in January 1975.
        Dr. Haas caused an international sensation in 1968 when he examined the 2,000-year-old remains of a crucified man, aged between 24 and 28, found in a cave near the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, revered by most Christians as the site of Jesus's crucifixion.
        Although much literature existed about the Roman-imposed method of execution, it was the first physical evidence of it ever found. A nail transfixing the man's feet provided the proof. A Name on the Stone Vault
        The name Jehohanan, a common name of the period, was found carved on the stone vault uncovered when a work site was cleared for the building of a new Jewish neighborhood near the Mount of Olives.
        Israeli officials, eager to avoid suggestions that the Resurrection was being challenged, hastened to point out that Jesus's name in Hebrew was Yehoshua, now translated as Joshua.
        All the archeologists involved tried to discourage any speculation that the remains could possibly be those of Jesus.
        One of the chief archeologists on the project said the man was probably a rebel put to death at the time of the census revolt in A.D. 7, when Rome decided to put a Roman procurator in charge of governing Palestine, or a victim of a crucifixion sometime between the start of the first century A.D. and the census revolt. The crucifixion of Jesus is fixed generally by scholars as between A.D. 28 and 33, when He was 32 to 37 years old.
        Dr. Haas was at the time a senior lecturer in anatomy at the Hebrew University Hadassah Medical Center.
      