
       Denis Sanders, a film maker who directed the debut performances of Robert Redford and George Hamilton and who won an Academy Award for the short film that served as his master's degree thesis, died Thursday of an apparent heart attack at his home in San Diego. He was 58 years old.
        Denis Sanders, a film maker who directed the debut performances of Robert Redford and George Hamilton and who won an Academy Award for the short film that served as his master's degree thesis, died Thursday of an apparent heart attack at his home in San Diego. He was 58 years old.
        Mr. Sanders was a professor and film maker in residence at San Diego State University, where he had worked since 1980.
        Mr. Sanders, a New Yorker, studied filmmaking at the University of California at Los Angeles. To fulfill an academic requirement, he and his brother, Terry, made a two-reel short subject called ''A Time Out of War,'' based on a Civil War incident. The film won awards from the Screen Producers Guild and the Edinburgh and Venice Festivals, and in 1954 received an Academy Award in the two-reel short-subject category.
        Mr. Sanders won a second Academy Award in 1969 for ''Czechoslovakia 1968,'' a documentary.
        Starting with his first student film, Mr. Sanders was associated with war movies. He directed ''War Hunt'' (1962), a Korean War story with Robert Redford. and he and his brother adapted Norman Mailer's war novel ''The Naked and the Dead'' for the screen.
        Mr. Sanders also directed ''Crime and Punishment, U.S.A.,'' (1959), a Beat Generation version of Dostoyevsky's novel, in which George Hamilton played his first film role. Among Mr. Sanders' other films were ''One Man's Way'' (1964), a biography of Norman Vincent Peale, and ''Shock Treatment,'' a 1964 feature that starred Lauren Bacall, Roddy McDowall and Ossie Davis.
        In 1970 he directed ''That's the Way It Is,'' a documentary about Elvis Presley. A year later, he and Robert M. Fresco filmed ''Trial - The City and County of Denver vs. Lauren S. Watson,'' a six-hour documentary about the trial of a member of the Black Panther Party. Also in 1971, he directed ''Soul to Soul,'' a film about black music that was made in Ghana and featured numerous entertainers.
        He is survived by his mother, Altina Miranda; his wife, Sherry Shirley Warren; his daughters, Victoria and Julie; a son, Peter, and a brother.
      