
       Dr. Choh Hao Li, a biochemist who was a leading researcher in the functions of the pituitary gland, died of cancer of the pharynx Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        Dr. Choh Hao Li, a biochemist who was a leading researcher in the functions of the pituitary gland, died of cancer of the pharynx Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        Dr. Li had been director of the Laboratory of Molecular Endocrinology at the University of California at San Francisco since 1983. He isolated and synthesized the human pituitary growth hormone in 1971.
        The synthesis of the human growth hormone was hailed at the time as a scientific breakthrough, with tremendous possibilities in many areas of medical research. At the time Dr. Li was director of the Hormone Research Laboratory and professor of biochemistry and experimental endocrinology at the university.
        The pituitary gland, a small gland at the base of the brain, controls nearly every function in the body. The gland has been implicated in cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, allergies and metabolic diseases. Awards for Breakthroughs
        Dr. Lil won dozens of awards for his breakthroughs, including the Amory Prize of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Science Achievement Award from the American Medical Association, the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award, the Lewis Prize of the American Philosophical Society, the Nichols Award, the Fred Conrad Koch Award of the Endocrine Society, and awards from the American Cancer Society and the Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons.
        During his career, Dr. Li received honorary degrees from many institutions, including the Catholic University in Chile, Chinese University in Hong Kong, the University of the Pacific, Marquette University, St. Peter's College, Upsala College, the University of San Francisco, Long Island University and the University of Colorado.
        Born in Guangzhou, China, Dr. Li graduated from the University of Nanjing. His work on the pituitary gland began when he was a graduate student at the University of California at Berkeley in 1933. He earned a doctorate from that university.
        Eventually, he isolated and purified six of the eight known hormones secreted by the gland.
        In addition, Dr. Li and his associates have done research on many other hormones used in disease treatment. In 1978, Dr. Li discovered beta-endorphin, a substance produced in the brain that acts as a pain killer.
        ''Beta-endorphin is the body's own opiate,'' explained Dr. Melvin M. Grumbach, professor of pediatrics at U.C.S.F., former chairman of the pediatrics department and a longtime colleague of Dr. Li. ''This opened the door to a new series of compounds and their effects on pain.''
        ''He was the first to synthesize insulin-like growth factor 1, which acts on bones to increase growth of cartilage cells,'' Dr. Grumbach said. ''It's a very important growth factor.''
        During his teaching career, Dr. Li trained more than 300 visiting scholars, students and fellows at the University of California.
        He was executive editor of the Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics, founder and editor in chief of The International Journal of Peptide and Protein Research, and a founder of programs in biochemistry at the Academia Sinica in Taipei and the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
        He is survived by his wife, Annie, of Berkeley; a son, Dr. Wei-i Li, of Bellevue, Wash.; and two daughters, Eva Hill of Toronto, and Ann-si-Choo in Berkeley.
        A memorial service is to be be held later this month. The family has asked for contributions to the Hormone Research Foundation.
      