
       John F. Fleming, a rare-book dealer and collector who for 30 years dominated the antiquarian manuscript market, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 77 years old.
        John F. Fleming, a rare-book dealer and collector who for 30 years dominated the antiquarian manuscript market, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 77 years old.
        For more than 60 years, Mr. Fleming was involved in collecting rare volumes, manuscripts and drawings. For the last 30 years, he was regarded as the successor to A. S. W. Rosenbach, the legendary Philadelphia dealer who became Mr. Fleming's patron and mentor. Mr. Rosenbach died in 1952.
        Mr. Fleming sold to and acquired properties for some of the most prestigious collections in the United States and Europe, including the Doheny Collection and the Silver Collection of the Newbury Library in Chicago.
        His own collection exemplified his diversity of taste, ranging from 18th century and 19th century English, French and early American manuscripts to incunabula, manuscripts from before 1500.
        Mr. Fleming was born in New York City in 1910. He began his career in book collecting in 1925 at age 15 when he began working the Mr. Rosenbach, who was known as the ''Napoleon of Books.'' In his first week on the job, Mr. Fleming demonstrated that a book for which Mr. Rosenbach paid $3,000 was worthless, and thus cemented a lifelong friendship.
        Mr. Fleming worked his way from clerk to manager to vice president of the Rosenbach company. He pruchased $2 million worth of Mr. Rosenbach's collection three years after Mr. Rosenbach's death.
        He was president of the John F. Fleming Rare Book Company, at 322 East 57th Street between First and Second Avenues, where he worked in baronial splendor. His office, a 60-foot room with 20-foot ceilings, was hung with tapestries and paintings, including a lifesize portrait of the actor David Garrick. He worked at a 20-foot-long Spanish refectory table surrounded by polished oak bookcases.
        ''What a bargain a Gutenberg Bible is,'' Mr. Fleming said in 1985, having been influential in the sale or acquisition of several. ''There were over 600 Rembrandts, but only a few Bibles. Think of its influence on history.'' ''Next to love, book collecting is the most exciting sport,'' he once said.
        He is survived by his wife, Josephine Blamire; two daughters, Carol Smith of Tempe, Ariz., and Joan Cremin of Bellevue, Wash., and three grandchildren.
        A funeral mass will be celebrated Tuesday at 10 A.M. at Sts. John and Paul Roman Catholic Church in Larchmont. Burial will follow at Phillipsburg Cemetery in Middletown, N.Y.
      