
       George (Punch) Imlach, who guided the Toronto Maple Leafs during their glory years in the National Hockey League and then built the expansion Buffalo Sabres into a contending team, died today after suffering his third major heart attack. He was 69 years old.
        George (Punch) Imlach, who guided the Toronto Maple Leafs during their glory years in the National Hockey League and then built the expansion Buffalo Sabres into a contending team, died today after suffering his third major heart attack. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Imlach, who was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1984, was general manager and coach of the Maple Leafs from 1958 to 1969 and directed the team to four Stanley Cup championships.
        After being dismissed by the Maple Leafs in 1969, Mr. Imlach moved to Buffalo, where he was named general manager and head coach of the Sabres when they entered the league in 1970. Two years later, he had a heart attack and stopped coaching. However, he remained the general manager of the team until 1978. Became General Manager
        Mr. Imlach rejoined the Maple Leafs as general manager from 1979 to 1981, when he had heart problems that necessitated a quadruple bypass operation.
        ''He was one of the most astute hockey men that I knew in all my career,'' said Sam Pollock, former general manager of the Montreal Canadiens. ''As a man and a coach he had the great ability to get the maximum amount out of the players that he had.''
        Mr. Imlach gained his nickname when, while playing in a game in Windsor, Ontario, he skated into a stray elbow, was knocked out, and came up swinging - at his own trainer who had dashed onto the ice to help. Won Four Stanley Cups
        The Maple Leafs made the playoffs 10 times in Mr. Imlach's 11 years in Toronto and won the Stanley Cup in 1962, 1963, 1964 and 1967.
        Mr, Imlach, who was troubled with ulcers through most of the years Toronto was winning, was dismissed in April 1969 when the Maple Leafs were eliminated early from the playoffs.
        His career totals as both coach and general manager were 395 victories, 336 losses and 148 ties.
        Mr. Imlach is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Brent, who played for the Maple Leafs briefly, and a daughter, Marlene.
      