
       John Wesley Hanes Sr., a former Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Roosevelt Administration and a corporate executive, died last Thursday at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Hanes, who also lived in New York City, was 95 years old.
        John Wesley Hanes Sr., a former Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Roosevelt Administration and a corporate executive, died last Thursday at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Hanes, who also lived in New York City, was 95 years old.
        With a background in investment and corporate finance, Mr. Hanes specialized in rejuvenating businesses. He served as a director of several companies, including the Olin Corporation, of which he was a director for 32 years. He directed the financial reorganization of such companies as the United States Shipping Lines and the Hearst publishing enterprises in the 1940's.
        He played an important role in helping to modernize and revitalize New York's thoroughbred racing tracks. As president of the New York Racing Association, a nonpaying post, he was the impresario of the rebuilt $33 million Aqueduct Race Track, which opened in 1959.
        After serving in the Navy as an ensign in World War I, he joined the firm of Charles D. Barney and Company (now Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company) selling bonds. Within two years he was a general partner and by 1935 he was a senior partner. Appointment by Roosevelt
        As a governor of the New York Stock Exchange he won a reputation for seeking reforms on the exchange and was named by President Roosevelt as a member of the Federal Securities and Exchange Commission in 1937.
        In June 1938, President Roosevelt appointed him Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, with general supervision of the Internal Revenue Bureau and the Treasury's tax program. When he resigned from Government service in December 1939, he was Under Secretary of the Treasury.
        He broke with the Roosevelt Administration to support Wendell L. Willkie in his unsuccessful campaign against Roosevelt in 1940.
        Although Mr. Hanes, then in his late 40's, planned to retire, he agreed to serve as chairman of the executive and finance committees of the United States Lines, a company he had helped reorganize in the late 1920's, and that by 1940 needed assistance in paying an $11 million debt that was due.
        While serving with the shipping company, he also agreed to unscramble the tangled Hearst publishing empire, then with $126 million in current liabilities and $12 million in assets. After seven years, he gave up direction when the Hearst enterprises had a $30 million surplus.
        In 1949, Mr. Hanes began a 10-year job of revitalizing Olin Industries, a chemical company that later merged with the Mathieson Chemical Corporation.
        He also served as director for the Bankers Trust Company, the Johns-Manville Corporation and the P. H. Hanes Knitting Company and as a trustee of the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
        In 1953, Mr. Hanes, who had a reputation as a horseman, was elected a steward of the New York Jockey Club. At the summer meeting of the Club, Ashley T. Cole, chairman of the New York State Racing Commission, said that thoroughbred racing tracks in the state were inadequate. Track attendance was static in New York while on the rise elsewhere.
        Mr. Hanes was named chairman of a special committee to remedy the situation. In 1954, the committee presented a $100 million improvement plan and obtained legislation to set up a nondividend paying corporation to borrow the funds to create a new Aqueduct and to improve Belmont and Saratoga race tracks. Contributions to Racing
        In 1960, when Mr. Hanes was named chairman of the New York Racing Association, he was honored by the New York Turf Writers Association as ''the man who did the most for racing.''
        Mr. Hanes was born in Winston-Salem, N.C. His father, also John W., owned a tobacco company that was later merged with the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.
        He attended the Woodberry-Forest School in Virginia and received an A.B. degree from Yale University in 1915.
        Mr. Hanes is survived by his wife, Hope Yandell Hanes; two sons, John W. Jr., of Alexandria, Va., and David G. of Washington; three daughters, June McKnight, of Norwich, Vt., Ormsby Matthiessen of Old Lyme, Conn., and Susan Caldwell of New York City; 16 grandchildren and 8 great grandchildren.
      