
       Dr. Ormand C. Julian, a surgeon who helped perform the first heart bypass, died Friday in San Rafael, Calif., according to officials at a Chicago hospital where he had worked. He was 74 years old.
        Dr. Ormand C. Julian, a surgeon who helped perform the first heart bypass, died Friday in San Rafael, Calif., according to officials at a Chicago hospital where he had worked. He was 74 years old.
        Dr. Julian himself suffered heart disase and 13 years ago underwent the surgery he helped pioneer, said Carolyn Reed, a spokeswoman at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospital. She said she did not know the cause of his death.
        Dr. Julian and an associate, Dr. William S. Dye Jr., carried out the first heart bypass in the mid-1940's at Hines Veterans Administration Hospital here, Ms. Reed said. The operation provides a passage for blood around a diseased or blocked section of the heart.
        The doctor served from 1970 to 1972 as chairman of the department of cardiovascular-thoracic surgery at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospital. Once Saved by Own Technique
        His research in the surgical aspects of cardiac and vascular disease led to the publishing of more than 150 articles in the field. He was a member of the faculty of the University of Illinois and of several scientific, professional and charitable organizations.
        Ms. Reed said that Dr. Julian suffered from heart disease, but at first was not considered a suitable candidate for coronary bypass surgery, the procedure he helped to develop. But when his conditioned worsened, she said, the surgery was successfully performed in 1974 at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's.
        Dr. Julian retired but remained active, helping to start a cardiovascular surgery program at the Eisenhower Medical Center at Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosemary; a son, William, of Las Cruces, N.M.; and a daughter, Gail Juley of Sebastopol, Calif. Memorial services were planned here and in California.
      