
       Rouben Mamoulian, the director of such benchmark musical shows as ''Porgy and Bess'' and ''Oklahoma!'' and more than a dozen innovative and distinctive movies, died Friday night. He was 90 years old. Mr. Mamoulian died at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles, where he had been hospitalized a short time, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        Rouben Mamoulian, the director of such benchmark musical shows as ''Porgy and Bess'' and ''Oklahoma!'' and more than a dozen innovative and distinctive movies, died Friday night. He was 90 years old. Mr. Mamoulian died at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles, where he had been hospitalized a short time, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Mamoulian's films include ''Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,'' an early talkie with Fredric March in the dual title roles that is considered the best film version of the Robert Louis Stevenson novella; ''Queen Christina'' (1933), with Greta Garbo giving one of her keenest performances, and ''Becky Sharp,'' a 1935 filming of Thackeray's novel ''Vanity Fair'' that was the first feature in Technicolor.
        In making a movie, Mr. Mamoulian was noted for flowing camera movements, vigorous imagery and rhythmic cutting. He was the first director to use a mobile camera in a sound movie and one of the first to use a multiple-channel sound track.
        The choreographic flow and expressionistic light-and-shadow effects of the director's best films were extraordinary. He was also noted for artistic integrity and for making demands on viewers' intelligence. Doing 'Something Different'
        Summing up his approach, Mr. Mamoulian said in a 1983 interview: ''You must trust your instinct, intuition and judgment. You must do something different.'' He said he had lectured to film students around the country. ''Too many of them,'' he said, ''slavishly follow authority. Some of the screen's best moments were realized because a director went against all reason, all logic. No matter how incredible a story seems, it can be made credible. If you feel an insane idea strongly enough, you've usually got something.''
        Mr. Mamoulian was a pioneer in shaping the fully integrated musical in which all elements are fused into a dramatic whole. ''Oklahoma!,'' which began winning Broadway audiences in 1943, was the first musical play in which every song and dance advanced and enhanced the plot. The rousing Richard Rodgers-Oscar Hammerstein 2d show set a then-record run for a musical of 2,248 performances.
        The director's other stage credits include Du Bose and Dorothy Heyward's 1927 drama ''Porgy,'' as well as its 1935 musical successor, ''Porgy and Bess,'' Eugene O'Neill's ''Marco Millions'' in 1928, Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Carousel'' in 1945 and Kurt Weill and Maxwell Anderson's ''Lost in the Stars'' in 1949.
        In praising Mr. Mamoulian's stage direction as ''excellent'' and ''versatile,'' Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times variously cited his ''amazing resourcefulness'' and ''considerable insight.'' 'Favorite Russian Authors'
        Though of Armenian origins, Mr. Mamoulian was early steeped in American folklore. As a youth, he recalled, ''Bret Harte, O. Henry and Mark Twain were my favorite Russian authors.''
        Rouben Zachary Mamoulian was born on Oct. 8, 1897, in Tiflis, the capital of Soviet Georgia. His father, Zachary, was a bank president and his mother, the former Virginia Kalantarian, was the director of the Armenian theater.
        As a youth he studied in schools in Tiflis and Paris and at the University of Moscow, where he earned a law degree. In the evenings, he studied acting, play writing and directing at the Moscow Art Theater under Vakhtangov, a disciple of Stanislavsky.
        In 1918, Mr. Mamoulian founded a drama studio in Tiflis and two years later toured England with the Russian Repertory Theater. In London, he directed several hit plays, which led to a three-year appointment as director of operas and operettas at the George Eastman Theater in Rochester.
        In 1926, he began teaching and directing plays for the Theater Guild, making his mark on Broadway a year later with ''Porgy,'' the milestone American folk drama with an all-black cast. The director's vivid, stacattolike style riveted audiences and reviewers. From Stage to Films
        Although trained for the stage, he was a natural film maker, one of the first directors of sound films who blended all components imaginatively and boldly.
        His first movie was ''Applause,'' a 1929 talkie shot mostly in the old Paramount studios in Astoria, Queens. He freed the camera from the soundproof booths that were hobbling early sound films, shot many scenes around New York City and transformed a banal tear-jerker about an aging burlesque queen consumed with mother love into a touching tragedy.
        In ''City Streets,'' a 1931 gangster film starring Gary Cooper, the director used novel tracking shots and introduced subjective sound.
        ''Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde'' (1932) is notable for its use of a subjective, 360-degree revolving camera, stunning transformations of man-becoming-monster and an emphasis on sexual tension over horror.
        One of the most inventive American film musicals was the director's 1932 fantasy ''Love Me Tonight,'' with an original score by Richard Rodgers and Lorentz Hart. The witty and sophisticated film is conceived entirely in musical terms and opens with a stylish symphonic montage of a city awakening. An exuberant succession of Parisian types sing the rollicking ''Isn't It Romantic?,'' eventually linking Maurice Chevalier and Jeanette MacDonald musically before they meet. Key Scenes in 'Christina'
        ''Queen Christina'' has two unforgettable sequences. In one, a bedroom scene, Greta Garbo, recalling a love affair, fondly touches inanimate objects. The other was a deftly ambiguous final close-up, a lingering shot for which the director instructed the actress to make her face a mask so that each viewer could fill in the blank.
        In ''Becky Sharp,'' starring Miriam Hopkins, the director made dramatic use of the new Technicolor process. One sequence was a ball on the eve of Waterloo. With word that the battle is beginning, the screen is drained of color except for the ominous scarlet of the British officers' uniforms.
        Early Mamoulian films include ''The Song of Songs'' (1933), starring Marlene Dietrich; ''We Live Again'' (1934), with Anna Sten, and ''The Gay Desperado'' (1936), a musical satire featuring a grand opera tenor, Nino Martini, that won Mr. Mamoulian the year's best-director award by both the New York and foreign film critics.
        Detractors derided some Mamoulian movies as too mannered and melodramatic and dismissed some of his experiments as technical acrobatics. Some reviewers consider ''Becky Sharp'' his last important movie, but according to Ephraim Katz, a film historian, others disagree and have called for a re-evaluation of his work.
        Why, after ''Becky Sharp,'' did Mr. Mamoulian's movie-making reputation decline? One reason was that his films were more successful artistically than commercially. Even more important, said Tom Milne, the author of the 1969 book ''Rouben Mamoulian,'' ''the movie tycoons were suspicious of his unpredictability and therefore reluctant to trust him as they trusted the comfortable studio hacks.''
        The director, a tall, scholarly man with penetrating hazel eyes, was considered a firm but benevolent taskmaster with actors, alternately awing them with eccentricity and warming them with empathy.
        He was also a linguist who spoke eight languages, a poet, a skilled art photographer and an accomplished amateur violinist.
        For many years he lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., with his longtime wife, the former Azadia Newman, a portrait painter.
        In a telephone interview in 1983 the director was asked what he sought to do most in movie making. He replied with his rhythmic Armenian accent:
        ''The world today is so full of violence, obscenity, war, the failure of political systems. I try to make movies that make people a bit more confident. But that doesn't mean being sugary. A film must have two elements - it must deal with the real world and show how it could be made better.''
      