
       Slam Stewart, a distinguished jazz bassist celebrated for singing along with his solos, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 73 years old.
        Slam Stewart, a distinguished jazz bassist celebrated for singing along with his solos, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Stewart, whose professional career began in the mid-1930's, played bass in groups led by Benny Goodman, Art Tatum, Erroll Garner and other leading musicians. During his stint in the popular duo Slim and Slam, with the singer and guitarist Slim Gaillard, he was co-author of several hit tunes, most notably the duo's novelty song, ''Flat Foot Floogie With the Floy Floy.'' Rich, Eerie Sounds From a Bass
        But among jazz listeners, Mr. Stewart is remembered best as the man who sang along with his bass while playing with a bow, producing solos with a rich, slightly eerie sound. Some critics thought the technique was a gimmick, but Mr. Stewart, who was always in demand for his more conventional bass-playing skills, always used it in a musicianly fashion, for musical rather than novelty effects. He featured the bowing-and-singing technique in ''Slam Slam Blues,'' recorded at a mid-1940's all-star session with Red Norvo, Teddy Wilson, Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie.
        Mr. Stewart, whose real name was Leroy, was born in Englewood, N.J. on Sept. 21, 1914. In 1934, he spent a year studying at the Boston Conservatory, where he heard a jazz violinist, Ray Perry, singing along with his solos. Mr. Stewart began singing along with his own bowed bass, but pitching his voice an octave higher, creating a broader, more sumptuous sound. He introduced the technique in New York City when he arrived there and began freelancing in 1935. He also acquired his nickname. ''At times, I slapped the bass when I played,'' he later told John S. Wilson of The New York Times. ''It had the same sound as a slam. They gave me the name Slam, and I've been stuck with it ever since. But I'm very used to it and prefer it to Leroy.'' Formed Popular Duo
        A chance encounter with Slim Gaillard led to the formation of Slim and Slam, and the duo became one of the most popular acts playing the string of clubs and bars along West 52d Street, New York's famous ''Swing Street.'' The duo's ''Flat Foot Floogie'' became so popular that Benny Goodman began performing it on his radio show, ''The Camel Caravan.'' Slim and Slam's record of the song was buried in a time capsule at the 1939 World's Fair along with a record of John Philip Sousa's ''Washington Post March.''
        When Mr. Gaillard was drafted in 1941, Mr. Stewart joined the Art Tatum Trio and then formed his own trio, with a young newcomer, Erroll Garner, playing piano. Mr. Stewart then played with Benny Goodman's sextet and big band, and went on to record and perform with a veritable Who's Who in jazz. He was actively performing and recording until a few weeks ago.
        He is survived by his wife, Claire, and two children.
      