
       Bernard E. Epton, a well-to-do Republican insurance lawyer who came close to wrecking Harold Washington's 1983 effort to become the first black Mayor of Chicago, died of an apparent heart attack yesterday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 66 years old and lived in Chicago, where he was born.
        Bernard E. Epton, a well-to-do Republican insurance lawyer who came close to wrecking Harold Washington's 1983 effort to become the first black Mayor of Chicago, died of an apparent heart attack yesterday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 66 years old and lived in Chicago, where he was born.
        Mr. Epton died while on a visit to his son Jeffrey, an Ann Arbor city councilman. Capt. Paul Bunten of the Ann Arbor police said Mr. Epton was staying at a hotel and died sometime between midnight and 9 A.M., when his wife, Audrey, was unable to awaken him.
        The Washtenaw County Medical Examiner's Office found that Mr. Epton died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, Captain Bunten reported.
        Mayor Washington died Nov. 25, also of a heart attack. He had won re-election last April with a comfortable 53 percent majority over a Republican contender and a powerful Democratic challenger running as an independent. Ruled Off the Ballot
        Mr. Epton had joined the mayoral race a year ago, but the Republican party organization threw its backing to another candidate. Mr. Epton withdrew when he was ruled off the ballot for lack of sufficient signatures. He announced that he would never run for public office again.
        The 1983 campaign and election was racially divisive, the prize being City Hall of what then was the country's second largest city. When the ballots were cast on April 12, the vote was largely along racial lines.
        A record 82 percent of the electorate went to the polls, and Mr. Epton won 622,000 votes to Mr. Washington's 667,000. Mr. Epton thus came within 3.3 percent of beating Mr. Washington in a city where the Democratic mayoral nomination had been tantamount to election for more than 50 years.
        Mr. Epton, running with the slogan ''Before it's too late,'' got almost none of the black votes. But what really defeated his campaign was the 60 percent Hispanic vote for Mr. Washington, who also got the backing of about 19 percent of white voters. Thought Press Was Negative
        Mr. Epton blamed negative press coverage for his defeat and voiced strong resentment at what he saw as a campaign in some quarters to paint him as a racist. Mr. Epton, who could be tart-tongued, complained that the news media had miscast him as someone in the race just to prevent a veteran black politician from becoming Mayor.
        The voters, he remarked, had ''left their brains at home.'' His campaign slogan, he said, plainly referred to Chicago's financial problems.
        Representative Lynn Martin, an Illinois Republican and formerly a fellow state legislator, yesterday told The Associated Press that Mr. Epton, ''a man of charm and ability,'' never was a racist.
        ''He'll be remembered for the wrong things,'' Mr. Martin said. ''For those of us who knew him, that was the greatest irony of all. I suspect that he and Harold Washington are both laughing together now.'' Active in Civic Affairs
        Bernard Edward Epton was born in Chicago on Aug. 25, 1921, and received his education at the University of Chicago, Northwestern University and DePaul University. He was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1947 and had practiced law in Chicago since then with what is now the firm of Epton Mullin & Druth.
        He served as a member of the Illinois General Assembly from 1969 to 1982 and was a member of Lloyds of London and past president of the National Conference of Insurance Legislators. He also was a director of the Jewish Community Centers of Chicago, a trustee of the College of Jewish Studies and a member of the president's council at St. Xavier College.
        In World War II, Mr. Epton served as a captain with the Army Air Corps in Europe and received the Distinguished Flying Cross twice cluster and the Air medal three times.
        Mr. Epton married Audrey Issett in 1945. Also surviving are two daughters, Teri Pulver and Dale; two sons, Jeffrey D., and Mark R.; two brothers, Judge Saul A. and Jerry W.; a sister, Elayne Bobins, and five grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held at 1 P.M. tomorrow at the Piser Weinstein Menorah Chapel, 5206 North Broadway, in Chicago.
      