
       Alexander G. Barmine, a brigadier general in the Soviet Army who defected in 1937 and became an influential journalist and a United States Government official, died Friday at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. He died of complications resulting from a stroke.
        Alexander G. Barmine, a brigadier general in the Soviet Army who defected in 1937 and became an influential journalist and a United States Government official, died Friday at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. He died of complications resulting from a stroke.
        Mr. Barmine was 88 years old and before his illness lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        Mr. Barmine was born in 1899 in Byelorussia, where his father was a schoolmaster. As a teen-ager, he fought in the civil wars that followed the Russian Revolution. After graduating from the Soviet General Staff College in 1923, he earned a master's degree in Farsi and developed proficiency in several other languages.
        After holding several government posts, both in the Soviet Union and abroad, he headed Soviet trade delegations to Paris and Milan from 1929 to 1932. Defected in 1937
        In 1937, Mr. Barmine was working as charge d'affaires in Athens when he learned that Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky, one of the leading military figures of the Revolutionary Army, had been executed in a Stalin purge. He was recalled to the Soviet Union but fled to Paris, where he lived for three years, occasionally writing articles for The New York Times in which he chronicled what he called the excesses and terror of Stalin's rule.
        In 1940 he moved to New York City and from 1942 to 1943, served as a private the Army. After the war, he wrote for Reader's Digest, The Saturday Evening Post and other publications before his appointment as chief of the Russian branch for the Voice of America.
        In 1945, Mr. Barmine published the book, ''One Who Survived,'' a chronicle of his life as a Soviet soldier, diplomat and one of the earliest high-level defectors. It was translated into 23 languages.
        Edmund Wilson said of the book in the July 14, 1945, issue of The New Yorker magazine: ''For a foreigner who really wants to learn what has been happening of recent years in Russia - as distinguished from demanding support either for faith or for hostile prejudice - this is probably the one book that ought to be read.''
        Mr. Barmine held his post at the Voice of America until 1964, when he became the officer in charge of Soviet affairs for the United States Information Agency. In 1969, he became a special adviser to the agency, a post he held until his retirement in 1972. Mr. Barmine received three awards for Government service.
        He is survived by his wife, Halyna of Chevy Chase; three daughters: Margot R. Hornblower of New York City; Tatiana Maksimovich of Kensington, Md., and Olga Barmine of Mogliano Veneto, Italy; one son: Gregory Barmine of Silver Spring, Md. and three grandchildren.
        Services will be held today at 9 A.M. at St. John the Baptist Russian Orthodox Church in Washington.
      