
       Arkady I. Raikin, who became the Soviet Union's most beloved comedian by deftly poking fun at the idiosyncracies of the Soviet system under a succession of rulers from Stalin to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, died over the weekend, the official press agency Tass reported today. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Raikin's humor, which mixed wicked satire with sentimental schmaltz and in his younger days physical slapstick, made him a favorite of several generations, and led many
        Arkady I. Raikin, who became the Soviet Union's most beloved comedian by deftly poking fun at the idiosyncracies of the Soviet system under a succession of rulers from Stalin to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, died over the weekend, the official press agency Tass reported today. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Raikin's humor, which mixed wicked satire with sentimental schmaltz and in his younger days physical slapstick, made him a favorite of several generations, and led many Russians to wonder how he got away with it.
        His success was especially surprising, they would often add, given that he was a Jew in a country that suffered periods of virulent anti-Semitism during his lifetime.
        Yet Mr. Raikin amassed the highest official honors of the Soviet Union, and counted among his admirers nearly every Soviet leader since Stalin, who invited the young comic to his birthday party. Honored by Government
        During the long rule of Leonid I. Brezhnev, a close friend of Mr. Raikin, the comedian was honored in 1968 with the title People's Artist, the highest award given to Soviet cultural figures, and in 1981 with the nation's highest civilian award, Hero of Socialist Labor.
        In a tribute read tonight on Soviet television, Communist Party leaders and cultural figures said his craftsmanship ''affirmed the moral renewal of mankind.''
        ''The bright memory of Arkady Isaakovich Raikin will live in the hearts of the Soviet people,'' the tribute said.
        Mr. Raikin, in his comedy, ridiculed officiousness and bureaucracy, rudeness and corruption, shortages and the bizarre back-door arrangements required to function in Soviet society.
        One skit, played with his son Konstantin, suggested that Soviet enterprises are so inefficient they must be managed by foreign saboteurs.
        In another, a psychologist showed up at the comedian's door to conduct a survey and the interviewee was paralyzed by fear that he might inadvertently disclose an unorthodox thought. To each question, including an inquiry about his relations with his wife, he replied, ''Just like all my friends.'' Entertained Troops at Front
        The Tass report did not cite the exact date or cause of death, although Mr. Raikin was known to count heart trouble and Parkinson's syndrome among his frailties.
        Born Oct. 24, 1911, in Riga, Latvia, he graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Stage Art in 1935 and four years later opened his own theater of homespun homilies and satirical skits he called ''miniatures.''
        He entertained troops at the front during World War II. Later, in his strolls around Moscow, he was often recognized by veterans whose spirits he lifted during the war.
        He moved his company from Leningrad to Moscow three years ago and reopened as the Satirikon theater in a converted cinema, where all 953 seats were always sold out.
        In his best-known routine, Mr. Raikin stood alone in a spotlight and wondered aloud whether he should go on with the show.
        ''I could just keep my mouth shut for three hours, including the intermission,'' he would suggest, deadpan. ''That way we won't take any risks.'' He would shrug. ''Or maybe we could just talk about . . . No, better not to talk about that,'' he would say wearily. ''Or let's say, about, about . . . No, about that people are keeping silent on every street corner.'' Harder Now for Satirists
        In an interview last July, Mr. Raikin said the fashion for open discussion of societal shortcomings under Mr. Gorbachev had made it harder for satirists to keep their comic edge.
        ''We can say anything we want,'' he noted. ''But nobody is very interested. The newspapers are already saying it.''
        A clue to Mr. Raikin's survival may have been his knack for avoiding confrontations with the censors by pulling back an offending line and saving it until the time was right.
        ''Sometimes we were told, 'This line has to be crossed out,' '' he recalled last summer. ''So a line was crossed out. But the public as a rule understood what was deleted.''
      