
       DETROIT, Dec. 16 -
        DETROIT, Dec. 16 -
        Raymond E. Majerus, who led a long, successful strike against the Kohler Company in the 1950's and subsequently became secretary-treasurer of the United Automobile Workers, died today in St. Mary's Hospital in Milwaukee of a heart attack. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Majerus was considered the front-runner to succeed Douglas A. Fraser as president of the million-member union in late 1982 but narrowly lost the nomination of the union's executive board to the current incumbent, Owen F. Bieber. According to accounts of the critcal board meeting, Mr. Majerus and Mr. Bieber tied on the first ballot, before a shift of votes gave a majority to Mr. Bieber. Dismissed After Strike
        Mr. Majerus began working in the enamel shop at Kohler, a producer of plumbing fixtures in his native Wisconsin, in the early 1950's and in 1952 led a wildcat strike. He was dismissed, but remained involved in efforts to affiliate the independent Kohler Workers Association with the U.A.W. He succeeded and when the automobile union won its first contract with the privately owned company in 1953, one of the provisions was that Mr. Majerus be barred from any role in the plant.
        Nevertheless, as a representative of the union he was a key figure in the bitter strike at Kohler that lasted from April, 1954 to September, 1960. The company was later found guilty of unfair labor practices and forced to give workers back pay.
        Mr. Majerus worked as a U.A.W. staff member in the Wisconsin-Minnesota region of the union until he was elected its director in 1972. Eight years later he was elected secretary-treasurer, the second highest post in the union.
        In addition, Mr. Majerus was in charge of national bargaining with aerospace companies organized by the union, some automotive components suppliers and the former American Motors Corporation.
        Although not an accomplished public speaker, Mr. Majerus was an important political figure in Wisconsin and Minnesota and was a member of the Democratic National Committee from Wisconsin. He was born in Campellsport, Wis., and lived in the Milwaukee area until moving to Detroit after his election as secretary-treasurer.
        He is survived by his wife, Alyce, three children, Rick, Jodi and Tracy, and two granschildren.
      