
       Anthony West, the critic and novelist, died yesterday at his home in Stonington, Conn., after suffering a stroke. He was 73 years old and also kept a home on Fisher's Island, N.Y.
        Anthony West, the critic and novelist, died yesterday at his home in Stonington, Conn., after suffering a stroke. He was 73 years old and also kept a home on Fisher's Island, N.Y.
        Mr. West reviewed books for The New Yorker from 1950 into the late 1970's. Many of his essays also appeared in The New Yorker, which previously published much of the reportage of his mother - Dame Rebecca West - from around the world.
        A collection of his pieces, reflections on subjects ranging from Thomas Jefferson to Winston Churchill, appeared in 1957. An updated version followed in 1970.
        Mr. West was the son of Dame Rebecca and H. G. Wells, whom he featured in a biography, ''H. G. Wells: Aspects of a Life.'' The book appeared in 1984, the year after his mother's death, and was widely regarded as a son's effort to come to terms with famous, difficult - and unwed - parents.
        In a like vein, Mr. West's third novel, ''Heritage'' (1955), was heralded as the story of a son torn between two ''high-powered, world-famous and unmarried parents'' who grew up to be ''a very happy man.'' Little note was taken at the time that he had named the fictional narrator, Richard Savage, after an early-18th-century English poet who claimed to be the illegitimate son of the Countess of Macclesfield. Book Arouses Controversy
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Orville Prescott wrote: ''Although by conventional standards they were wretchedly bad parents, Richard concluded that being their son was a privilege rather than a misfortune,'' their conduct having been ''justified by their genius.''
        Mr. Prescott called that a ''generous verdict'', albeit a debatable one, and judged Mr. West's book ''an amusing and well-written novel.''
        The disguise as fiction did not sit well with Dame Rebecca, who threatened to sue any publisher who printed it in Britain. None did until after her death.
        Asked to write an introduction for an American paperback version in 1984, Mr. West proved equally unforgiving and merely allowed that he should not have used the name Richard Savage for the ''fictional'' son. A 'Troubling' Biography
        Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The Times, who reviewed Mr. West's life of his father in 1984, called it ''an enthralling yet ultimately troubling biography'' and ''a memoir-biography'' the author had been working at off and on since 1948.
        ''This is a book whose main purpose seems to be to even the score with anyone who has ever denigrated Mr. West's father,'' Mr. Lehmann-Haupt wrote. While not really glossing over H. G. Wells's failings, Mr. West keeps coming ''back to the subject of Rebecca West, who, when all is written, is the ultimate target of his book.''
        The reviewer praised the ''witty and eloquent'' portraits of people who touched Wells's life and acute psychological insights. Yet, Mr. Lehmann-Haupt concludes, ''Judging by this brilliantly written book, for Mr. West the agony has never abated.'' Worked at New Statesman
        Anthony Panther West was born Aug. 4, 1914, in Hunstanton, Norfolk, England, his middle name derived from one of the nicknames his parents used with each other. He called himself ''a rather unsuccessful student'' at school and never went to university.
        He spent some years in cattle breeding, dairy farming and traveling before starting to write reviews, in 1937, for the New Statesman and Nation. By the time World War II broke out, he was that journal's regular critic of new fiction.
        Tuberculosis kept him from military duty, so he spent the war working for the Far Eastern desk of the British Brodcasting Corporation, and then for its Home News division. From 1945 to 1947 he was posted to the Japanese Service.
        In 1950, he went to the United States, where he joined the staff of The New Yorker.
        Mr. West's other books include his first novel, ''The Vintage'' (1950), which was titled ''On a Dark Night'' in Britain. Winner of a Houghton Mifflin Award, it was the story of an English colonel-barrister and a German general, executed as a war criminal, who meet in a contemporary version of hell and explore their lives.
        ''The Trend Is Up'' (1960) was about the ambitious son of a conservative banking family in Boston. David Dempsey of The New York Times Book Review, praised Mr. West - ''not a native son'' - for his ''accurate and sensible'' understanding of American life and ''valid social observations.''
        Mr. West is survived by his second wife, Lily Emmet West, and their two children, Sophia West of San Francisco, and Adam West of Manhattan; two children from his first marriage, Dr. Edmund West of Stonington, and Caroline Duah of London; and one granddaughter.
        A memorial service will be held later.
      