
        Louis E. MartinLouis E. Martin, whose work behind the scenes as an adviser to three Democratic Presidents and whose efforts to bring more blacks into government earned him the sobriquet, ''the godfather of black politics,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Orange, Calif. He was 84.
        Mr. Martin served as the deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee during the Administrations of President John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, and was widely viewed by both Presidents as a valued counselor and liaison to the black political community. President Jimmy Carter appointed him as a special Presidential assistant.
        In 1967, as an adviser to Johnson, Mr. Martin was influential in pressing him to name Thurgood Marshall as the first black Justice on the Supreme Court.
        In the 1960 Presidential campaign, Mr. Martin helped persuade Kennedy to place a telephone call to Coretta Scott King to express dismay over the jailing of her husband, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The phone call was widely credited with helping Kennedy win a major portion of the black vote in the general election that year.
        Mr. Martin was able to wield considerable influence inconspicuously, his friends said.
        Eddie Williams, the president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research organization in Washington, said it was surprising that Mr. Martin was largely unknown to the public at large, given his wide-ranging influence in the White House and his role in the development of black political power in the Democratic Party.
        ''One reason for this is that in Washington, he was the consummate political insider,'' Mr. Williams said. ''He traversed the corridors of power for many years without calling attention to himself and his achievements.''
        Mr. Williams said that Mr. Martin was first called the ''godfather of black politics'' by The Washington Post, and that the nickname stuck.
        Mr. Martin was born in Shelbyville, Tenn., the son of an American woman and a Cuban-born doctor, but grew up in Savannah, Ga., where he met his wife of 60 years, Gertrude Scott. He attended Fisk University and graduated from the University of Michigan.
        He began his professional career as a journalist with The Chicago Defender, a black newspaper, and within a year moved to Detroit to become the editor of another black newspaper, The Michigan Chronicle.
        In an interview, his wife recalled that during his time at The Chronicle he became an active Democrat.
        Local preachers were Republicans because they had connections with the Ford Motor Company's management ''that would allow them to recommend workers to the plant,'' Mrs. Martin said, noting that the arrangement enhanced their own prestige.
        But she said that her husband decided that the Democratic Party was a more appropriate vehicle for advancing the cause of organized labor, and he made it his mission to express that view in his newspaper.
        Mr. Martin helped found the National Newspaper Publishers Association, a group of black publishers.
        In 1970, he was a founder of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies to provide technical assistance and support for black officeholders and scholars across the country, and served as its first chairman for eight years.
        Mr. Martin first came to Washington after he was recruited by a Kennedy brother-in-law, R. Sargent Shriver, to work in the Kennedy Presidential campaign. After Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, Mr. Martin made a remarkably easy transition as a Johnson adviser, a transition few other Kennedy aides would make.
        Clifford L. Alexander Jr., a White House counsel under Johnson, described Mr. Martin as his mentor and recalled that he and the President enjoyed an easy relationship. ''They talked to each other in the shorthand of experienced political pros,'' Mr. Alexander said.
        Recounting an incident that took place shortly after Johnson's landslide victory over Barry Goldwater in 1964, Mr. Alexander said the President summoned him and Mr. Martin to the Oval Office to ask what percentage of the black vote he had won. ''Ninety-six percent Mr. President,'' Mr. Martin replied. Johnson then asked balefully, ''What about the other 4 percent?'' Mr. Martin knew the President well enough, Mr. Alexander said, and simply laughed.
        Among the leading black public figures whom Mr. Martin helped raise to prominence was Vernon E. Jordan, now a close adviser to President Clinton. Mr. Martin helped recruit Mr. Jordan to head the National Urban League.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Martin is survived by five daughters, Trudy Hatter of Diamond Bar, Calif., Anita Martin of Rockville, Md., Dr. Toni Martin of Berkeley, Calif., Linda Purkiss of Oakland, Calif., and Lisa Grant of San Francisco. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      