
        Richard Berry, who wrote the legendary three-chord rock song ''Louie Louie'' died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in South-Central Los Angeles. He was 61.
        The cause was possible complications from an aneurysm, said John Kim, who was working with Mr. Berry on a film biography, The Associated Press reported.
        ''Louie Louie,'' written and recorded in 1956, is a cornerstone of rock. It has a simple but indelible beat, three basic chords and a melody that encourages even the tone-deaf to sing along. Its lyrics are the lament of a Jamaican sailor telling a bartender named Louie how much he misses his girlfriend.
        Yet ever since the words were famously slurred by the Kingsmen in their 1963 hit version of the song, they have been a subject of speculation by generations of listeners, many of them convinced that the lyrics are lewd. There are hundreds of recordings of the song, by surf, punk, hard-rock, soft-rock, rap, reggae and high-school marching bands; it has probably been performed millions of times. Frank Zappa called it ''an archetypal American musical icon.''
        ''Louie Louie'' was by no means Richard Berry's only song. During the 1950's, he wrote and recorded dozens of songs with the Flairs, the Crowns and other groups. He provided the menacing bass voice, a possible precursor of gangsta rap, in the Robins' 1954 ''Riot in Cell Block  No. 9,'' and he was the eager voice of Henry in Etta James's 1955 hit, ''Roll With Me, Henry.'' But the improbable ubiquity of ''Louie Louie'' sets him apart from many other journeyman songwriters of rock's early years.
        Mr. Berry was born in Extension, La., near New Orleans, in 1935. He was sent to Los Angeles a year later to live with an aunt; his parents followed. While in elementary school, he taught himself to play his aunt's piano. A childhood hip injury left him with a lifelong limp, and at a camp for handicapped children he learned the ukulele.
        In Los Angeles, he attended Jefferson High School and sang in its choir, which had nurtured many doo-wop singers. He also found a mentor, Jesse Belvin, a Jefferson alumnus who had national hits including ''Goodnight My Love,'' and who collaborated on the Penguins' ''Earth Angel.'' Mr. Berry once recalled, ''If you could sing like Jesse, you had the girls.''
        Mr. Berry and fellow choir members formed doo-wop groups -- the Flamingoes, the Turks, the Debonairs -- and in 1953, the Debonairs began auditioning. Signed to Modern Records, the 16-year-old doo-woppers changed their name to the Flairs and had a modest regional hit with ''I Had a Love'' and Mr. Berry's ''She Wants to Rock,'' an early production by Jerry Lieber and Mike Stoller.
        For the next two years, the Flairs released a single every two months. They also recorded as the Chimes, the Rams, the Howlers and the 5 Hearts, and Mr. Berry released songs under his own name and in a duo, Ricky and Jennell. He worked long hours at sessions, writing songs, playing instruments and singing parts from bass up to falsetto.
        In 1954, Mr. Lieber and Mr. Stoller were working with the Robins on ''Riot in Cell Block No. 9,'' and called on Mr. Berry to sing the bass part.  The next year, he appeared on Ms. James's ''Roll With Me, Henry.'' He left the Flairs and continued writing and recording. He also sang in the clubs of Los Angeles, including a regular Sunday-night engagement with the Rhythm Rockers, a Latin group led by two Filipino-American brothers, Barry and Bobby Rillera.
        In the summer of 1956, Mr. Berry was backstage when he heard the Rhythm Rockers play a dance tune with a distinctive introduction: the five-note pattern that became the basis of ''Louie Louie.'' It was ''El Loco Cha-Cha,'' by Rene Touzet; Mr. Berry borrowed the opening riff. In ''Louie Louie'' (Hyperion, 1993), his book about the song, Dave Marsh describes the beat as: ''Duh duh duh. Duh duh.''
        For the lyrics, Mr. Berry borrowed the concept of talking to the bartender from the Frank Sinatra hit, ''One for My Baby'' and the idea of a  lovelorn Caribbean sailor from Chuck Berry's ''Havana Moon,'' and came up with his own terse song in an invented pidgin. He wanted Latin percussion in his version, but his record company vetoed the idea.
        Flip Records first released Mr. Berry's ''Louie Louie'' as the B-side of his version of ''You Are My Sunshine.'' But ''Louie Louie'' became the hit; for one week, the Los Angeles disk jockey Hunter Hancock played the song every hour on the hour on KGFJ. It sold tens of thousands of copies on the West Coast, but Mr. Berry's attempts at a follow-up hit were unsuccessful.
        In 1959, he needed money to get married, and he sold the publishing rights to ''Louie Louie'' to Max Feirtag, the owner of Flip, for $750. He did, however, retain the rights to royalties for radio play.
        Meanwhile, ''Louie Louie'' had made its way to the Pacific Northwest, where it became a staple of local bands. A version by a Seattle band, Rockin' Robin Roberts with  the Wailers, released in 1961, turned the song into a bar-band rocker. And in 1963, two bands from Portland, Ore., the Kingsmen and Paul Revere and the Raiders, both recorded ''Louie Louie'' in the same week. The Kingsmen's version -- sloppy and energetic with slurred vocals -- became the much bigger hit after Arnie (Woo-Woo) Ginsberg, a Boston disk jockey, played it twice while declaring it the worst record of the week; it went on to sell millions of copies.
        Rumors spread that the words were obscene, and the F.B.I. began a 30-month inquiry into the song. Mr. Berry was questioned twice, although the Kingsmen's lead singer, Jack Ely, was never called. Eventually, the investigation was closed without prosecution.
        Mr. Berry was still playing the clubs and lounges of Southern California, often in after-midnight sessions. He recorded in the early 1960's for small local labels, with meager success. A song he wrote, ''Moments to Remember,'' recorded by Jennell Hawkins, reached No. 50 on the pop chart in 1961.
        But until 1980, his regular job was playing versions of Top 40 songs. The work wore him down, and by 1981 he was on welfare. He became a keypunch operator and studied computer programming. In 1984, he was attacked by a pit bull and laid up with spinal injuries; his doctor encouraged him to return to performing.
        Meanwhile, ''Louie Louie'' was enjoying a new revival as an anthem of  all-American amateurism. A San Francisco radio station, KFJC, ran marathons of the song, playing all the versions it could find and soliciting new ones from listeners. In 1983, Mr. Berry and Mr. Ely of the Kingsmen performed the song together for the first time at the station. There were ''Louie Louie'' parades, with marchers wielding kazoos, in Philadelphia through the late 1980's. In Washington, a resolution was introduced in 1985 to make ''Louie Louie'' the state song, with new lyrics; it was not adopted.
        Publishing royalties for the ever-increasing number of versions of ''Louie Louie'' went to Max Feirtag until 1986, when Mr. Berry finally recovered three-quarters of the publishing rights to his song, although he did not receive back royalties. And that song continues to be played at fraternity parties, football games, parades and anywhere else that its three chords and basic beat draw a smile of recognition.
        Mr. Berry is survived by his mother, Bertha Harris, and six grown children, Pamela, Richard Marcel, Stephani, Karen, Linda and Christy, who all use their father's surname.  Richard and Christy Berry are also musicians.
      