
        Jose Ignacio Domecq Gonzalez, the aristocratic head of a Spanish wine-making family who was renowned as El Nariz (The Nose) for his ability to sniff out the nuances in the creation of his clan's highly regarded sherries, died on Wednesday at his home in Jerez de la Frontera, in southern Spain. He was 82.
        Mr. Domecq died of cancer, according to one of his sons, Jose Ignacio Jr.
        The Domecq clan owned Pedro Domecq, one of Spain's oldest and largest sherry and brandy shippers, from 1816 until 1994, when it was merged with Allied Lyons P.L.C., the alcoholic beverages giant based in London. It is now known as Allied Domecq P.L.C.
        Mr. Domecq joined the family company in 1939, became a member of the board in 1947 and from 1994 until last month was a member of the board of Allied Domecq.
        The tall, lean Mr. Domecq quickly became known throughout the international wine trade as El Nariz for literal as well as figurative reasons. His hawklike nose, endlessly caricatured in profile, was memorably large. It was also his fortune, an indispensable gift in the blending necessary for creating fine sherries.
        From childhood on, he said, he memorized aromas and tastes ranging from those of the freshly pressed must of palomino grapes to those of the rich, old dry sherries called olorosos dating to 1730, when the company was founded. Its rise began in 1816 when a forebear, Pedro Domecq, acquired it and gave it his name.
        Sherry, like port and madeira, is a fortified wine, which means that alcohol is added for body and strength. The name is an Anglicization of Jerez, the capital of sherry production.
        Fino sherries are light in color and body. Olorosos are dark and rich; they are made by blending old, aged wines with new ones. This process, known as the solera system, goes on continuously, with experts constantly tasting and smelling the wines to determine which barrels to mix and in what quantities.
        Mr. Domecq's skills as a blender were outstanding.
        In an essay for ''Christie's Wine Companion'' (Salem House, 1987), he wrote, ''Strolling through a bodega, dipping out old sherries which have rested undisturbed for generations, must be one of the most satisfying encounters a man can have with wine.''
        It was this relationship to sherry, perhaps Spain's unique contribution to wine culture, that led Mr. Domecq's competitors and admirers to observe that he was a man of long views.
        In his essay, he offered his perspective this way: In ancient bodegas ''One watches human egos come and go -- all talking loudly about market trends etc., in the jargon of the moment -- while the wine ignores them all and silently ages, turning itself with our tactful guidance into the same lovely old perfection enjoyed by our ancestors.''
        The Domecqs are major brandy producers. The company, which is based in Madrid, makes Fundador and Pedro Domecq brandy in Spain and several brandies, most important among them Presidente, in Latin America. Pedro Domecq holds some 40 percent of the booming Mexican wine and spirits business. In the United States, where Domecq sales exceed a million cases a year, its best sellers are Presidente brandy and Sauza tequila.
        For sherry aficionados, some of the favorite Domecq products are La Ina, a fino, and Rio Viejo, an oloroso.  When Mr. Domecq was not in his laboratory or tending his properties all over Jerez, his second home was  the Bay of Cadiz, where he pursued his passion for sailing. After services at San Miguel Church in Jerez de la Frontera on Thursday, Mr. Domecq was cremated and his ashes were sprinkled over the waters.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Angela Fernandez Bobadilla de Domecq; a brother, Beltran Domecq Gonzalez; and sisters, Luisa Domecq de Pardo, Fernanda Domecq de Peraleja and Maria Domecq de Lopez de Carizosa, all of Jerez.
        In addition to his son Jose Ignacio Jr. of Jerez, he is survived by five other sons, Vicente, also of Jerez, Miguel of Madrid, Enrique of Monaco, Gabriel of Seville and Jorge of Brussels; five daughters, Patricia Domecq de Domecq and Marta Domecq de Jimenez, both of Puerto de Santa Maria, Magdalena Domecq de Fernandez of Bogota, Colombia, Angela Domecq de Gomez Bustillo of Seville and Natalia Domecq de Meana of Madrid.
        He had 40 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      