
        Mae Barnes, the sassy pop-jazz singer and dancer who introduced the Charleston on Broadway and later became a New York nightclub legend, died at Jamaica Hospital in Boston on Dec. 13. She was 89.
        She was being treated for cancer, said a friend, the theater historian Delilah Jackson.
        At the height of her popularity, Ms. Barnes appeared so frequently at the Bon Soir, a Greenwich Village cabaret, that the club was nicknamed ''the Barnes Soir.''
        Famous for her special material -- songs like ''(I Ain't Gonna Be No) Topsy,'' an assertion of black pride that was ahead of its time -- and famous for her irreverent interpolations into familiar lyrics, Ms. Barnes loved to poke fun at the songs of the day. Twisting a key line in Harold Arlen's ''One for My Baby,'' the words ''set 'em up Joe,'' became ''stick 'em up, Joe.''
        Other signature songs included ''On the Sunny Side of the Street,'' ''I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter,'' ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' and ''They Raided the Joint and Took Everybody Down but Me,'' all sung in a rhythmically charged style that combined the insinuation of the bawdy blues with taut jazz phrasing.
        Ms. Barnes, whose original name was Edith May Stith, was born in New York in 1907 and grew up in Manhattan. At age 12 she dropped out of school, telling the administration she was moving to Cleveland, and got a job as a chorus girl at the Plantation Club in Harlem. She toured the South as a vaudeville performer and in 1924 made her Broadway debut in the revue ''Runnin' Wild.'' The show, which introduced the Charleston to Broadway, also featured another legend-to-be, Elizabeth Welch.
        As a stage performer, Ms. Barnes was nicknamed ''the bronze Ann Pennington,'' after the Broadway dancing star of George White's Scandals. Her dancing in the national tour of another show, ''Shuffle Along,'' led Bill Robinson to call her ''the greatest living female tap dancer.'' When a car accident in 1938 fractured her pelvis, she turned to singing.
        ''I took the rhythm from my dancing and put it in my songs,'' she later said. As her cabaret career developed, she graduated from dives to more upscale New York clubs like Cerutti, the Little Casino and the Blue Angel. In the early 1950's she became the mainstay of the Bon Soir, the cellar club on Eighth Street in Greenwich Village that later became a showcase for Barbra Streisand. A favorite of high society, she frequently performed at Elsa Maxwell's parties and counted the Duke and Duchess of Windsor among her friends.
        She also appeared in a 1950 edition of the ''Ziegfeld Follies'' that closed in Boston. Her final Broadway appearance was in 1954 in the Dorothy Fields-Arthur Schwartz musical ''By the Beautiful Sea,'' starring Shirley Booth.
        She continued to perform in clubs around the world into the 1960's and recorded for Atlantic and Vanguard Records. She is prominently featured on ''The Erteguns' New York: New York Cabaret Music,'' (Atlantic), an anthology released in 1987.
        No immediate family members survive.
        A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue and 54th Street, at 3 P.M. on Jan. 30.
      