
        Stuart B. Kaufman, a University of Maryland history professor who edited the papers of the labor leader Samuel Gompers and played an instrumental role in setting up the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s historical archives, died on Sunday at his home in Garrett Park, Md. He was 54.
        He died of a heart attack, family members said.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Kaufman developed a close relationship with George Meany, then president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, after he approached the federation and asked for its help in compiling the papers of Gompers, who helped found the American Federation of Labor in 1886 and served as its president for 37 years until his death in 1924.
        From those initial contacts, Mr. Kaufman became an adviser on labor history to Mr. Meany and three of his successors, Lane Kirkland, Thomas Donahue and John J. Sweeney. In that role, he persuaded the federation to take seriously the task of preserving its historical records and making them available to researchers.
        Indeed, after Mr. Meany died in 1980 Mr. Kaufman oversaw the creation and construction of the George Meany Memorial Archives and Historical Center, which houses the federation's historical papers at the George Meany Center for Labor Studies in Silver Spring, Md.
        Mr. Kaufman saw his life's work as reviving interest in labor history and teaching unions to treat their historical papers not as fodder for the dustbins of history, but as living documents that historians can use for centuries to tell the tale of long-forgotten workers. He helped assemble the archives of the United Mine Workers of America and the bakery and confectionary workers, as well as the cigar makers.
        He also helped create a roundtable of labor archivists and was a founder and editor in 1988 of Labor's Heritage, a quarterly magazine. In his effort to popularize labor history, he helped persuade President Clinton to declare May to be labor history month.
        Robert Pleasure, former director of the Meany Center and now the labor federation's education director, said Mr. Kaufman had in recent years become the nation's leading labor archivist.
        Mr. Kaufman's other major effort was assembling the Gompers papers, a project for which the University of Illinois Press has published 5 of an expected 12 volumes. Two more volumes are ready for publication.
        For that project, Mr. Kaufman badgered the carpenters, mine workers and other unions for permission to rummage through their papers to find decades-old correspondence between Gompers and long-dead union leaders.
        He also wrote a book, ''Samuel Gompers and the Origins of the American Federation of Labor, 1848-1896'' (Greenwood Press, 1973).
        Assessing the first volume of the Gompers papers, The New York Times Book Review wrote in 1986, ''It is a carefully chosen and superbly edited selection of the letters, public statements and writings of Gompers and his associates and deepens our understanding of Samuel Gompers's formative years.''
        Mr. Donahue, the former A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, said of the Gompers papers, ''That was the outstanding act of scholarship in recent years in labor history.'' He added, ''In terms of the federation and the Meany archives, he's the guy who literally took it from nothing to a functioning institution.''
        Stuart Bruce Kaufman was born in New York City on Feb. 15, 1942, but grew up in North Miami Beach. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Florida in 1963, a master's degree in American history from that university in 1964, and a doctorate in American history from Emory University in Atlanta in 1971.
        Mr. Kaufman taught history at Morris Brown College in Atlanta from 1965 to 1967 and at Texas A&M University from 1967 to 1969. In 1969 he joined the history department of the University of Maryland, becoming a full professor there in 1992.
        He served as acting historian of the United States Department of Labor in 1974 and was assistant director for archival work at the George Meany Center from 1986 to 1988.
        Mr. Kaufman is survived by his wife, Phyllis, of Garrett Park; his father, Nathan, of North Miami Beach; a brother, Myron, of Decatur, Ga.; a sister, Ronnie Kaufman of Seattle, and a son, David, a student at Cornell University Medical Center in Manhattan.
      