
        Dr. James B. Pritchard, who, armed with trowel and broom, dusted off relics of lost biblical villages and then painted popular word portraits of ancient lives for a global audience, died on Jan. 1 at Bryn Mawr Terrace Nursing Home near Philadelphia. He was 87 and lived in Haverford, Pa.
        Early in his career as an archeologist, Dr. Pritchard was summoned to meet a wealthy benefactor who wished to prove every word of the Bible factually correct. Asked whether he would accept money for an expedition for that purpose, Dr. Pritchard said he would not.
        ''I just want to find out what really happened there,'' the young scholar replied. The benefactor, J. Howard Pew, sent a check the next day and continued to pay for much of Dr. Pritchard's work, family members and colleagues recalled.
        The places he investigated constitute a catalogue of sites up to 5,000 years old that dot the pages of the Bible, including the palace of King Herod in Jericho and the towns and villages of the Phoenicians, ancient inhabitants of what is now Lebanon.
        He was the first to identify the location of Gibeon, a town mentioned dozens of times in Scripture. His team of scholars was directing a dig in the town, just north of Jerusalem, when a worker found the handles of several wine jugs. No one could read the label, written in paleo-Hebrew. Dr. Pritchard could. It carried three words: ''Gibeon,'' ''wine'' and the name of a Jewish vineyard owner. Dr. Pritchard had made perhaps his greatest find. The handles are in the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology and Anthropology, usually called the University Museum, its former name.
        Most of his work was on sites dating back 2,500 to 3,000 years, to the Iron Age, when many biblical events took place, said Dr. Bruce Rutledge, who holds the James B. Pritchard Chair of Biblical Archeology at Penn. Dr. Pritchard dedicated the new chair in September.
        Many of Dr. Pritchard's discoveries were made only a few feet below the surface, Dr. Rutledge said, while others were unearthed as deep as about 100 feet.
        The earth protects many more secrets of antiquity, Dr. Pritchard often said. He feared that some of the relics he put in the Beirut Museum might have been lost after military occupation.
        His most prized findings were inscriptions on bits of pottery, known as ostraca. When Dr. Pritchard was 25, his mentor, William Albright, of Johns Hopkins University, told him that a finder's name would be attached to any ostracon, and the young scholar resolved to find one. He spent days under the desert sun, sifting through grid squares, lifting thousands of shards until one turned up with writing and became ''the Pritchard ostracon.''
        ''When you pick up something that's written, you have contact with the ideas of somebody in a more intimate way -- the language of somebody in the far distant past -- than you do with any other kind of object,'' he later told an interviewer.
        For his work on seven excavations in Jordan, he received a medal from King Hussein in 1964. He also won a gold medal from the Archeological Institute of America, of which he was president.
        James Bennett Pritchard was born in Louisville, Ky. He received a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Asbury College in Wilmore, Ky., and a doctorate in Oriental studies from Penn in 1942.
        He taught at Crozer Theological Seminary, in Chester, Pa., for 12 years and in 1954 joined the Church Divinity School of the Pacific in Berkeley, Calif. In 1962, he joined the Near Eastern Studies Department at Penn, where he remained until his retirement as a professor of religious thought in 1984. He was also director of the University Museum and its curator of biblical archeology.
        Dr. Pritchard wrote two books for a general audience, ''Gibeon: Where the Sun Stood Still'' (Princeton University Press, 1962) and ''Recovering Sarepta, a Phoenician City'' (Princeton, 1978).
        Survivors include his wife of 59 years, the former Anne Elizabeth Cassedy; two daughters, Sarah Anne Hayman of Ballanthogher, County Sligo, Ireland, and Mary Bennett Mitchell of Bethesda, Md.; a sister,  Virginia Mann of Thomson, Ga., and four grandchildren.
      