
        Henry Lincoln Yeagley, a physicist who developed a theory in 1942 to explain why birds could fly great distances and then return to the precise spot they had left, died on Dec. 26 in State College, Pa. He was 97 and lived in State College.
        In the early 1930's, Professor Yeagley also proposed a variety of safety measures for automobiles, including quick-release passenger straps. Most of the ideas were rejected, because auto makers regarded them as too costly or something people would not use, but were adopted decades later.
        Doing research under a grant from the War Department during World War II, Professor Yeagley concluded that a homing pigeon could, during its flight, sense both the force of Earth's magnetic field and the force of Earth's rotation.
        This, he said, would create what amounted to a ''navigational grid work'' on the bird's brain, giving it the two navigational coordinates, longitude and latitude, necessary for its navigation and essential in keeping it from getting lost.
        The Army and Navy, working on aircraft and missile guidance systems, were interested in gaining knowledge about the physics of gravity and planetary motion for what it might reveal of flight navigation.
        Professor Yeagley's experiments were dismissed at the time as farfetched. But after decades of research by others, the work has been recognized and accorded greater scientific respectability.
        ''Though Yeagley didn't really prove his case, history is showing that he was asking the right questions,'' said Melvin Kreithen of the University of Pittsburgh, who has proved the existence of an extraordinary sensory system in pigeons. But scientists have not been able to establish the tie-in with their extraordinary navigational skills, Professor Kreithen said in an interview.
        ''There were those in the field who gave him such a difficult time, as is often the case with a pioneer,'' he said of Professor Yeagley. ''But what he had was a wonderful thought, and in the fullness of time it is likely to bear fruit.''
        Professor Yeagley said he was led to the study of car design after he and a group of his students witnessed a mountain-road car crash.
        ''A car came racing around a curve at full an 80-mile-an-hour speed with the driver asleep on the wheel,'' he wrote in a 1932 article in The Penn State Engineer, a technical journal. ''Just beside us, the car crashed head-on into a concrete abutment.'' He said he and the students had expected to find a body in the wreckage, but the driver was only bewildered and bruised.
        Professor Yeagley then conducted a series of calculations on decelerating force, mass and velocity as well as examinations of the car's interior and of the driver. ''The man involved did not survive by a miracle,'' Professor Yeagley said, but rather, essentially, because the steering wheel had inadvertently protected the slumped body.
        So in addition to his idea for auto safety straps, he suggested extra dashboard padding and body redesign that would help keep passengers from being crushed by the engine in head-on collisions.
        Henry Lincoln Yeagley Jr., who was born on York, Pa., graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1925 and received his master's and doctorate degrees there.
        Professor Yeagley was a member of the faculty of the university from 1925 to 1958 and of the faculty of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., for a decade afterward.
        At Penn State, Professor Yeagley established the department of astronomy, in addition to his duties in the physics department. At Dickinson, he reorganized the department of physics and astronomy as its chairman, installed a planetarium and designed a seven-telescope observatory in 1963. He retired as professor emeritus in 1969.
        He is survived by two sons, Henry Jr., of State College, and Richard W., of Bailey, Colo., a daughter, Elizabeth Forest White, of Studio City, Calif., two sisters, Rebecca Yeagley Baker and Ester Thomson Yeagley, both of York, Pa.; seven grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      