
        Gabriel Lewis Galindo, the Panamanian diplomat and businessman who helped negotiate the Panama Canal Treaties, spearheaded efforts to overthrow Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and served until recently as his country's Foreign Minister, died on Dec. 19 in Denver, where he had been undergoing medical treatment. He was 68 and suffered from fibrosis of the lungs.
        Within Panama, Mr. Lewis was regarded as his country's leading expert on foreign policy. But perhaps more than any Latin American diplomat in the last three decades, Mr. Lewis, a round, bald figure with an exuberant nature and a raspy voice, had an understanding of the political process of the United States and how to make it work to his country's benefit.
        A wealthy member of one of Panama's most prominent families, Mr. Lewis had business interests that included real estate, a bank and a brewery. But when Gen. Omar Torrijos came to power in a coup in 1968, he was one of the few figures from the elite to immediately support the new populist Government, and he quickly became a friend and confidant of General Torrijos.
        When Jimmy Carter entered the White House in 1977, General Torrijos appointed Mr. Lewis as Panama's Ambassador to the United States in hopes of reaching an agreement under which Washington would transfer control of the Panama Canal to Panama. Mr. Lewis not only proved to be skilled and imaginative during those negotiations, but his outgoing, back-slapping nature were later credited with winning over several senators who had been dubious about ratifying the resulting treaties.
        During the Iranian hostage crisis in 1979, Mr. Lewis again came to the aid of the United States. When the Carter Administration had difficulty finding a country where the Shah of Iran and his family could take refuge, Mr. Lewis, with the approval of General Torrijos, offered his own home on the island of Contadora, where the deposed Iranian ruler remained until just before his death.
        But after General Torrijos died in an airplane crash in 1981, Mr. Lewis's relationship with the military dictatorship eventually deteriorated. In 1987, when opposition to General Noriega erupted into civil disobedience and street protests, Mr. Lewis urged the military strongman to resign and fled into exile in the United States after the military responded with threats against his family.
        Drawing on his broad network of contacts in Washington, Mr. Lewis soon emerged as the opposition coalition's chief representative abroad. He not only financed some of their activities, but vigorously lobbied State Department officials and members of Congress and the press and devised several ways for the United States to exert economic pressure on Panama, which led the Noriega Government to call for his arrest on charges of treason.
        Neverthless, when the Democratic Revolutionary Party, the party of Torrijos and Noriega, returned to power in Panama in September 1994, the new President, Ernesto Perez Balladares, once again turned to Mr. Lewis. Aware that many in the United States were deeply suspicious of the new Government's intentions, the new President named Mr. Lewis Foreign Minister and asked him to repair relations with Washington.
        Once again, Mr. Lewis proved skilled in earning Washington's gratitude. In what was almost his first official act, he agreed to allow the United States to intern up to 10,000 Cuban refugees, who had fled their country on rafts a month earlier, in camps in the former Panama Canal Zone until the crisis could be solved.
        Thereafter, even as his health was deteriorating, Mr. Lewis devoted much of his time to reassuring Asian and European countries that Panama will be able to manage the Canal once it gains control in 2000 and to discussions with the United States about maintaining a military presence in Panama. But this summer, his illness finally forced him to step down, and he spent most of his last months at his apartment in Miami.
        Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife, Nita, six children and 21 grandchildren.
      