
        Joseph Charles Muhler, a latter-day alchemist who helped turn stannous fluoride into tubed gold -- a dentifrice named Crest -- died on Dec. 24 at St. Joseph Medical Center in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 73 and lived in nearby Sturgis, Mich.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Dr. Muhler, a biochemist by training, led the team that came up with the original formula for Crest, a Procter & Gamble best seller, in the 1950's. He started its development in 1945 when the Navy, which had sent him to the Indiana Dental School, stopped supporting him.
        He had graduated that year and mustered the grants that allowed him to continue his research through graduate school. The idea was that fluorides, chemical compounds containing the element fluorine, held science's answer to tooth decay.
        At the time, dentists favored sodium fluoride, but there are many other fluoride compounds, and Dr. Muhler tinkered with some 150 of them. He persisted with the stannous -- or tin -- variety, believing it to be the most effective in hardening tooth enamel and protecting it from acids. He eventually proved it so.
        He received important encouragement from two mentors at Indiana University, Dr. Harry G. Day, his biochemistry teacher, and Dr. Grant Van Huysen of the dental school. A crucial contribution came from Dr. William H. Nebergall, an associate, when he baked a sample of toothpaste abrasive in a laboratory oven.
        Even as the work proceeded at Indiana University, Procter & Gamble was casting about for a decay-fighting toothpaste. The industrial giant was impressed enough with the results of Dr. Muhler's team to underwrite its work in 1949.
        He led the clinical field tests that proved the effectiveness of stannous fluoride as an ingredient in toothpaste. Procter & Gamble test-marketed Crest in 1955, and it went on sale nationally the next year. Eventually, other manufacturers developed their own fluoride formulas.
        Crest became the leading seller, especially after 1960, when the American Dental Association did what it had not done before: endorsed one specific brand of toothpaste. Its Council on Dental Therapeutics said there was proof hat Crest prevented tooth decay to a significant extent, and the association permitted advertisement of that.
        The endorsement became familiar to the entire generation of baby boomers: ''Crest has been shown to be an effective decay-preventive dentifrice that can be of significant value when used in a conscientiously applied program of oral hygiene and regular professional care.''
        Dr. Muhler, Dr. Day and Dr. Nebergall reaped some of the royalties for the invention. They, in turn, gave half the proceeds to Indiana University for dental research.
        Joseph Charles Muhler was born in Fort Wayne. He received his D.D.S. in 1948 from Indiana University, followed by a doctorate in chemistry in 1951, the year he joined the faculty as an assistant professor of chemistry. In 1972 he was named a research professor of dental science and director of the School of Dentistry's Dental Research Institute. He retired in 1984 but continued to write in his field.
        Dr. Muhler is survived by his wife of 47 years, Majetta Stewart Muhler; two sons, Dr. Joseph Jr. and James P., both of Fort Wayne, and five grandchildren.
      