
        Tom (Shorty) McWilliams, who played in the 1945 Army backfield with Felix (Doc) Blanchard and Glenn Davis, died Thursday in Meridian, Miss., his hometown. He was 70.
        He had been hospitalized for a month after hip-replacement surgery, and his family said he had several other medical problems. He died of complications from diabetes, said Dick Smith, a lifelong friend.
        McWilliams earned his reverse nickname because at 6 feet 3 inches he was the tallest of the Army backs. He played wingback in Coach Red Blaik's T-formation, which had Davis at tailback, Blanchard at fullback and Arnold Tucker at quarterback. Blanchard won the Heisman Trophy that year as college football's outstanding player and Davis won it the next year.
        In 1945, Army finished with a 9-0 record and was voted the unofficial national champion.
        In a wartime era when players were not limited to four football seasons, McWilliams played at Mississippi State in 1944, Army in 1945 and Mississippi State in 1946, 1947 and 1948. In August 1946, when he tried to resign from the Army and return to Mississippi State, he was turned down at first because Maj. Gen. Maxwell Taylor, the Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, charged that McWilliams had received ''a particularly lucrative financial offer from a certain quarter'' to leave.
        Allyn McKeen, the Mississippi State coach, demanded that Taylor retract or prove the implication. Three weeks later, McWilliams was allowed to resign from Army.
        He was named to the all-Southeastern Conference team his last three years there, and Bob Hartley, the former sports information director at Mississippi State, said he might have been the best football player ever to play there.
        Until a knee injury ended his career, McWilliams played professionally for the Los Angeles Dons in 1949 and the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1950. He returned to Meridian in 1955 and bought the restaurant his family still owns.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gloria Weidmann, and four daughters, Susan, Missie, Gloria and Dottie.
      