
        Noah Lewis Robinson, the biological father of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, died on Monday at Greenville General Hospital in South Carolina. He was 88 and lived in Greenville, S.C.
        The cause was a heart attack and complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Jackson said.
        Mr. Robinson's relationship with a neighbor, 16-year-old Helen Burns, resulted in Mr. Jackson's birth in 1941. At the time, Mr. Robinson was married to Catherine Robinson, a widow with three children from a previous marriage. A year after Miss Burns gave birth, she married Charles Jackson, who later adopted her son.
        Jesse Jackson did not learn the identity of his biological father until he was 7 years old. Biographies and other articles about Mr. Jackson's life have said that in that time, the taunts from other children about his birth out of wedlock played a significant role in his drive to succeed.
        But Mr. Jackson has said that circumstance can explain only a small part of who he is. In an interview on Wednesday, he talked instead of his closeness to both his biological father and his adoptive father over the years, saying, ''People say I had a father deficit when in truth I had a father surplus.''
        He said that the two men were friends and that he always referred to both as his father. If he inherited anything from Mr. Robinson, he said, it was ''his strong healthy ego, a sense of dignity not limited by Southern views.''
        ''It is where I get the drive to think I could change the South through the civil rights movement and run for President,'' Mr. Jackson said.
        Mr. Robinson was born in Greenville and worked for many years as the only black office employee of the John J. Ryan & Sons cotton brokerage in the city's textile industry. He was a cotton grader who was said to have the skill to determine the quality of cotton simply by rolling it on his fingertips and looking at it closely.
        He retired more than 25 years ago.
        In addition to his wife and Mr. Jackson, Mr. Robinson is survived by three other sons, Noah Jr., of Chicago, George, of Calumet City, Ill., and John, of Santa Fe, N.M.; two stepsons, Brooks E. Gray of Philadelphia and Archie L. Gray of Cleveland, and a stepdaughter, Maria G. Evans of Xenia, Ohio.
      