
        Lelan F. Sillin Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of Northeast Utilities, Connecticut's largest utility, died on Friday in a traffic accident. He was 78 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn.
        Mr. Sillin, who retired as Northeast Utilities' chairman in 1983, was an early advocate of nuclear power but he criticized some nuclear operators. In a 1986 analysis on the nuclear power industry called the ''Sillin Report,'' he chided utilities that simply met regulatory requirements ''instead of striving for excellence.''
        Although Mr. Sillin helped make Northeast Utilities, at one point, the most nuclear-powered utility in the nation, he thought of himself as an energy pragmatist.
        ''I don't like being classed as a nuclear proponent,'' he said in an interview in 1979. ''I'm a utility man. As soon as we find a better technology, we'll go with it.''
        Mr. Sillin died after a collision when, according to a Connecticut State Police report, the 1993 Jeep Cherokee he was driving turned from the parking lot of the Old Lyme Seafood market, near Heflon Farm Road, onto Route 156. A 1995 Ford LTD driven by State Trooper Jeff Rhoades, 26, of Middletown, Conn., collided with Mr. Sillin's Jeep, crumpling the left side of the vehicle.
        Trooper Rhoades suffered a minor injury. Mr. Sillin was pronounced dead at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. The accident was still under investigation, the police said yesterday.
        Mr. Sillin was born in Tampa, Fla., on April 19, 1918. He was a graduate of the University of Michigan and its law school and served in the South Pacific in the United States Marine Corps until 1945.
        He began his business career as a corporate attorney with the New York law firm of Gould & Wilkie, where he was general counsel for Central Hudson Gas and Electric in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He later rose to become president and, in 1964, chief executive of Central Hudson.
        In 1968, he joined Northeast Utilities, a utility holding company, as president. In 1970, he was named chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Sillin was a trustee at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and served on the board of the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan Outhwaite Sillin, and their four sons, Lelan 3d of Syracuse; John, of Potomac, Md.; Andrew, of New Paltz, N.Y., and William of Sunderland, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      