
        Harold Foote Gosnell, a political scientist who studied voter behavior, political machinations and the ingredients of success in American politics, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 100.
        Dr. Gosnell, the author of Presidential biographies and scores of articles, reports and book chapters, started publishing his work in the 1920's while teaching at the University of Chicago. His first subjects were machine politics and the rising importance of black constituents at the ballot box.
        As early as 1925 he analyzed -- and deplored -- the ''resignation of the American voter.'' For a comparison he wrote ''Why Europe Votes'' (University of Chicago Press, 1930).
        His first look at big-city politics produced ''Boss Platt and His New York Machine: A Study of the Political Leadership of Thomas C. Platt, Theodore Roosevelt, and Others'' (University of Chicago, 1924; repr. 1969). This was followed by ''Machine Politics: Chicago Model'' (University of Chicago, 1937; 2d ed. 1969).
        In ''Negro Politicians: The Rise of Negro Politics in Chicago'' (University of Chicago, 1935; 2d ed. 1968), he sought ''to describe in realistic fashion the struggle of a minority group to advance its status by political methods.''
        He won acclaim for that, as well as for an analytical biography, ''Champion Campaigner: Franklin D. Roosevelt'' (Macmillan, 1952).
        He examined how Roosevelt presented his policies, how he made people respond to his appeals for support and how he influenced future politicians. The book also recalled a ''rule'' of Roosevelt, laid down in a 1932 article the politician wrote, that anyone who wanted a political career had better be well-heeled enough to afford it.
        Harold Gosnell, whose father was a Methodist minister, was born in Lockport, N.Y., on Christmas Eve 1896. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Rochester in 1918 and received his doctorate  in 1922 from the University of Chicago, where he taught until 1941.
        During World War II and until 1960 he worked for the Government in Washington as a research analyst and then as an operations officer for the Department of State. He was involved in Soviet studies while teaching at American University, and he then was a professor of government at Howard University from 1962 until he retired in 1972. Both institutions are in Washington.
        Dr. Gosnell's wife of 63 years, Florence L. Fake Gosnell, died in 1991. He is survived by two sons, David F., of North Plainfield, N.J., and John S., of Bethesda; and five grandchildren.
      