
        Donald E. Stokes, a leading political scientist and former dean of Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, died on Sunday in a Philadelphia hospital. He was 69 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was acute leukemia, said Mary Caffrey, a spokeswoman for the university.
        Professor Stokes headed the Woodrow Wilson School from 1974 to 1992. He was also the Class of 1943 University Professor of Politics and Public Affairs at Princeton from 1979 until his death. He taught until  Christmas, Ms. Caffrey said.
        He was an authority on voters' behavior and a co-author of the widely noted book ''The American Voter,'' which drew on thousands of interviews with voters in the election years of 1948, 1952, 1954, 1956 and 1958. Among the co-authors' observations about the American voter were that no matter how much candidates may try to discuss the issues in a campaign, voters tend to evaluate them more as personalities than as spokesmen for a particular cause.
        They also said that two-thirds to three-quarters of those who vote make up their minds before the campaign starts and that 1 out of 10 remains undecided until the last 2 weeks before the election.
        Professor Stokes's other writings included the book ''Political Change in Britain: Forces Shaping Electoral Choice,'' which he wrote jointly with David E. Butler. It won the American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Prize as the best work published in American political science during 1970.
        While Professor Stokes ran the Woodrow Wilson School, its faculty almost doubled. Under him, the school also enlarged its undergraduate program and enhanced its research program.
        In 1981 and 1991, he played a key role on a commission revising the borders of voting districts in New Jersey to reflect population shifts.
        He was born in Philadelphia and received a bachelor's degree from Princeton in 1951 and a doctorate from Yale in 1958. Professor Stokes  taught at Yale and at the University of Michigan, where he became dean of the graduate school, before moving to the Woodrow Wilson School.
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a former Guggenheim Fellow and Fulbright Scholar.
        He is survived by his wife, Sybil; two daughters, Elizabeth Stokes of Princeton and Susan Stokes of Chicago; a sister, Eleanor Szanton of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      