
        Frank Edwin Egler, a retired plant ecologist who turned his unkempt patch of northwestern Connecticut into a minutely studied habitat, died on Dec. 26 at a nursing home in North Canaan, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Norfolk, Conn.
        He suffered a brief illness, said his friend and colleague John P. Anderson Jr.
        At his death, Dr. Egler, a botanist and forester, was the president of Aton Forest Inc., his nonprofit 1,100-acre preserve in Norfolk on the Berkshire Plateau near the Massachusetts border. He dedicated the preserve to research and education.
        Dr. Egler made his mark in the 1950's with research testifying to the harm done by chemical spraying of brush land for rights of way for power lines or roads. He undertook his studies while head of the department of conservation of the American Museum of Natural History.
        He was associated with the museum from 1951 to 1955. His work was cited in Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring,'' which raised the alarm about overuse of synthetic herbicides.
        Dr. Egler's work established that selective spraying achieved desired results without spoiling the environment. He maintained that each type of plant, such as trees, shrubbery or grass, requires its own treatment.
        Frank Egler was born in Manhattan and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1932. He received a master's degree from the University of Minnesota in 1934 and a Ph.D. in plant ecology from Yale. He joined the faculty of the New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse University in 1937 as an assistant professor in forest botany. He found academia too confining and quit teaching in 1944.
        He went to Norfolk, where his family owned a farm of a few hundred acres that formed the nucleus of Aton Forest.
        Dr. Egler wrote widely on ecology and conservation. He was the author of ''The Way of Science: A Philosophy of Ecology for the Layman'' (Hafner, 1971).
        His wife, Happy Kitchel Egler, died in 1978. He is survived by a stepdaughter, Gayle Blakeslee, and two stepsons, John and William Hamilton.
      