
        Ralph L. Nelson, an innovative Queens College professor who helped harness the science of getting to illuminate the practice of giving, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 70 and widely regarded as a father of the economic study of philanthropy.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        Never mind that American philanthropy is a $500 billion-a-year industry, drawing $150 billion a year in charitable donations and providing indispensible support for myriad religious, educational, medical and other causes.
        Until recently, economists gave charity short shrift, and for good reason. For one thing, of course, for a field devoted to the study of the creation and acquisition of wealth, the very idea of giving it away seemed downright subversive.
        Then, too, until Dr. Nelson came along, the few economists who were interested in philanthropy had virtually nothing to work with, specifically no measure of who gave how much to which charities under what circumstances.
        That is because there is no Government clearing house to tally annual giving, for example, and because tax records of deductible contributions are not tabulated and reported until years after the fact.
        So in 1984, Dr. Nelson, already a pioneer in the economics of philanthropy, created a complex economic model based on survey data and other variables to produce annual estimates of current donations.
        The figures, published annually by the American Association of Fund Raising Counsel, are regarded as so reliable and so indispensable to researchers that they have become the philanthropic equivalent of official Government estimates of employment, inflation and other economic factors.
        They have also helped spawn an entire new branch of economics. As recently as the 1960's, only a handful of economists specialized in charities. Today, hundreds are working on research projects that would simply not have been possible before the Nelson model.
        Among other things, researchers using Nelson data have established that high tax rates, year-end stock rallies and Republican control of White House all stimulate charitable contributions, as do Government cutbacks in social-service financing -- although never enough to make up for the shortfall.
        By the time he helped establish the economics of philanthropy, Dr. Nelson was an old hand at switching gears.
        A native of St. Paul, he was majoring in electrical engineering at the University of Minnesota when he decided that the hard science was far too predictable and much too boring. Seeking a greater challenge, he switched to economics, perhaps the squishiest science of them all.
        After obtaining a master's and a doctorate from Columbia, he specialized in industrial organization and held a series of teaching posts before settling in at Queens College in 1964.
        A 1967 assignment from the Russell Sage Foundation to study the investment policies of foundations helped alter the course of his work and led to a key appointment as consultant to the Filer Commission on Private Philanthropy, whose landmark 1975 report helped point up the inadequacies of philanthropic statistics.
        Known as man of unbending integrity who believed foundations had a moral obligation to spend their tax-exempt dollars well, Dr. Nelson was  a meticulous researcher who never trusted computer printouts quite as much as the figures he had written down himself on a yellow tablet.
        ''Give him a spreadsheet,'' a colleague said, ''and he would check every cell.'' There was no reason, the colleague added, to check Dr. Nelson's figures. ''They were always right.''
        For all his standing in a field he helped create, Dr. Nelson was a modest, unassuming man with such a sure sense of priorities that when a news conference to publicize his findings conflicted with a teaching assignment, he invariably passed up the limelight for the classroom.
        As a spcecialist in philanthropy, Dr. Nelson was more than a cold-eyed professional. He believed in charity so much, his wife said, that he gave far more of his income than the 2 percent that has long been the national average.
        He gave generously to the headquarters of the Unitarian Universalist Association in Boston; far less to his local congregation. As his wife noted, because of a long-ago bequest of mineral rights on some German land where oil was later discovered, the little church has an endowment of more than $100 million.
        At the time of his death, the man who believed money should be husbanded carefully and well was the church treasurer.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, David, of New Orleans; a daughter, Rachel Moeller of Allentown, Pa., and a grandson.
      