
        Dan Gooden, who underwent open-heart surgery the day after his son Dwight pitched a no-hitter last May, died at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla., on Friday night. He was 69.
        Dan Gooden had battled health problems for more than a decade. He had hip replacements, a heart problem and used a kidney dialysis machine the past 10 years. He was taken off the machine earlier this month after his condition worsened.
        Mr. Gooden, a sandlot baseball player in his youth, was responsible for the development of the pitcher who last year staged a memorable comeback with the Yankees. Dwight Gooden, out of baseball for a year and a half because of substance-abuse problems, compiled an 11-7 record for the Yankees before his tired arm gave out near the end of the season.
        The highlight of the younger Gooden's season was the no-hitter he pitched against Seattle on May 14 at Yankee Stadium. The next day he flew to Tampa, arrived at the hospital after his father had had the open-heart surgery and gave him the ball from the last out of the game. Dwight Gooden rejoined the Yankees, but his father never left the hospital.
        The relationship between father and son was so close that when Dwight Gooden reached the major leagues with the Mets in 1984, one of the first things he did was to arrange for his father to get a satellite dish so Mr. Gooden could watch his son on television. ''We called people at WOR, and they worked it out,'' Jay Horwitz, the Mets' public relations director, said yesterday.
        The Mets also arranged for Mr. Gooden and his wife, Ella Mae, to fly from their home in Tampa to Houston in 1984 to see their son make his first major league start.
        ''Dwight, especially in the early years, always talked to his father after his games,'' Mr. Horwitz said. ''His father would critique his style, his pitching motion and what he did between starts. He had more than a fan's knowledge of the game.''
        In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Gooden's other survivors include another son, James, and two daughters, Betty and Mercedes. Betty Jones, who lives on the same block as her parents in St. Petersburg, Fla., is the mother of Gary Sheffield, a Florida Marlins outfielder.
      