
        Clyde W. Tombaugh, who earned a lasting place in the annals of astronomy by discovering Pluto in the far reaches of the solar system in 1930, died on Friday at his home in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 90.
        After a painstaking and tedious search of the heavens, Mr. Tombaugh detected the ninth planet, the smallest and usually the most distant one orbiting the Sun, while working at the Lowell Observatory at Flagstaff, Ariz. He was the only person to discover a planet in the solar system in the 20th century.
        Mr. Tombaugh was 24 years old at the time of his discovery, not far removed from a Kansas farm, and lacked formal training in astronomy or a college degree, yet he succeeded where others had failed.
        His achievement culminated a search begun by the astronomer Percival Lowell in 1905, before Mr. Tombaugh was born. There were eight known planets at the time, and Lowell and others said irregularities in Neptune's orbit could only be explained by a more distant planet, which they called Planet X.
        Mr. Tombaugh carried out a systematic search using a specially designed 13-inch-diameter wide-field telescope. Although Lowell had predicted that Planet X would be found in one of two possible positions, Mr. Tombaugh was ready to search the entire night sky.
        To look for Planet X in a particular area of the sky, he took two long-exposure photographs a few days apart. Then he examined the two photographic plates, which contained 50,000 to 900,000 specklike images of stars, using a microscopic eyepiece and a device that allowed the plates to be alternated rapidly. Any object like an asteroid or a planet that had moved against the background in the period between the two exposures would appear to jump backward and forward. The task was simple but tiresome and required intense concentration.
        ''There are 15 million stars in the sky as bright as Pluto,'' Mr. Tombaugh once said. ''I had to pick one image out of the 15 million.''
        On Feb. 18, 1930, while examining two plates he had taken six days apart the previous month, he found a starry speck that moved in relative position from one plate to the other by the amount he had hoped for. It was Planet X.
        ''It electrified me,'' he recalled later. ''When I saw that, I knew instantly that was it.''
        Clyde William Tombaugh was born on Feb. 4, 1906, on a farm near Streator, Ill., and spent his early life on farms in Illinois and Kansas. His interest in astronomy developed in childhood, and he first glimpsed the stars through an uncle's three-inch-diameter telescope. Inspired by an article in Popular Astronomy, Mr. Tombaugh made his own reflecting telescope after graduating from high school, grinding its eight-inch mirror on a post outside the family farmhouse in Burdett, Kan.
        ''I wanted a better telescope than I could get from Sears and Roebuck,'' he said. The mirror was not very accurate, but it led to a lifetime of building and improving telescopes.
        Using the shaft from his father's 1910 Buick and parts from farm equipment, he made a nine-inch reflecting telescope that turned out to be an excellent instrument. In 1928, after a hailstorm destroyed the family's wheat and oats crops, along with Mr. Tombaugh's hopes of starting college anytime soon, he sent some of his best drawings of Jupiter and Mars to the Lowell Observatory.
        He was hoping only for advice about his work, but his timing was lucky. The observatory needed a dedicated amateur who would work long hours at low pay to operate its new photographic telescope and make long-exposure photographs of the sky. He was offered the job.
        On Jan. 14, 1929, he left Kansas for Flagstaff after a parting admonition from his father, Muron: ''Clyde, make yourself useful, and beware of easy women.'' He was quickly given the great responsibility of searching for Planet X. After 10 months of painstaking work, he made his discovery, which was announced on March 13, 1930, after the observatory watched the planet's progress for a few weeks.
        On a scholarship in 1932, he went to the University of Kansas for his formal education in astronomy, returning to the observatory each summer to take up his observing duties. He met Patricia Edson, a philosophy major at the university, and they married in 1934. Mr. Tombaugh is survived by his wife, two children, Alden and Annette Tombaugh, all of Las Cruces; five grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
        After graduating, he returned to the observatory, where he continued his work until 1943, with time off to earn a master's degree at Kansas in 1939. He continued to search for new planets in the solar system, but neither he nor anyone else has found another one.
        He once calculated that he had examined 90 million star images on 338 pairs of Lowell photographic plates and had catalogued 29,548 galaxies, 1,807 variable stars and 3,969 asteroids, of which 775 of the asteroids were previously unreported.
        He also found that galaxies were clustered in certain places rather than being randomly distributed across the skies. ''Only a few people have seen as much of the universe as I have,'' he said.
        Later in his career, Mr. Tombaugh taught physics at Arizona State College in Flagstaff, worked as an optical physicist and astronomer at White Sands Proving Grounds near Las Cruces, and joined the faculty at New Mexico State University in 1955.  There he led planetary observation efforts, and from 1953 to 1958, he also  directed a search for small objects like asteroids near Earth that might pose a threat to spacecraft. None were found.
        Mr. Tombaugh was also an experienced observer of Mars and other planets. He predicted in 1950 that Mars would have impact craters caused by asteroids, and 15 years later, images taken by the Mariner 4 space probe proved him correct.
        He was the co-author, with Patrick Moore, of the book ''Out of the Darkness: The Planet Pluto'' (1980).
        Mr. Tombaugh retired from New Mexico State in 1973 but continued to observe the cosmos with his homemade telescopes. The Smithsonian Institution asked him to contribute his nine-inch reflector to its collections, but he said, ''They can't have it yet -- I'm still using it!''
      