
        Noah Lewis Robinson, the biological father of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, died on Monday at Greenville General Hospital in South Carolina. He was 88 and lived in Greenville, S.C.
        The cause was a heart attack and complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Jackson said.
        Mr. Robinson's relationship with a neighbor, 16-year-old Helen Burns, resulted in Mr. Jackson's birth in 1941. At the time, Mr. Robinson was  married to Catherine Robinson, a widow with three children from a previous marriage. A year after Miss Burns gave birth, she married Charles Jackson, who later adopted her son.
        Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader and candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1984 and 1988, did not learn the identity of his biological father until he was 7 years old. Biographies and other articles about his life have said that in that time, the taunts from other children about his birth out of wedlock played a significant role in Mr. Jackson's drive to succeed.
        In a 1987 interview, Noah Robinson Jr., said that his famous half-brother had said that the circumstances of his birth fueled ''a subliminal longing for respect and recognition that he is somebody.''
        For his part, Mr. Jackson scoffs at such suggestions, saying that that can explain only a small part of who he is. In an interview yesterday, he instead talked of his closeness to both his biological father and his adoptive father over the years, saying, ''People say I had a father deficit when in truth I had a father surplus.''
        He said that the two men were friends who respected each other during the years he was growing up and that he always referred to both of them as his father. If he inherited anything from Mr. Robinson, he said, it was ''his strong healthy ego -- a sense of dignity not limited by Southern views.''
        ''It is where I get the drive to think I could change the South through the civil rights movement and run for President,'' he said.
        Born in Greenville, Mr. Robinson worked for many years as the only black office employee of the John J. Ryan & Sons cotton brokerage in the city's textile industry. He was a cotton grader who was said to have had the skill to determine the quality of cotton simply by rolling it on his fingertips and looking at it closely.
        Though he never made more than $100 a week in a job that would have paid a white person much more, he was prosperous by most standards of black people in the town.
        Mr. Robinson retired from the cotton brokerage firm more than 25 years ago. Recently he had been saddened by the conviction of his son Noah Jr., once a Chicago businessman and millionaire, on multiple charges of conspiracy, racketeering and attempted murder. The younger Mr. Robinson is currently in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Chicago, facing a possible life sentence.
        In addition to Mr. Jackson, Noah Robinson Jr. and his wife, Catherine, Mr. Robinson is survived by two other sons, George of Calumet City, Ill., and John of Santa Fe, N.M.; two stepsons, Brooks E. Gray of Philadelphia and Archie L. Gray of Cleveland, and a stepdaughter, Maria G. Evans of Xenia, Ohio.
      