
        The Rev. Dr. William A. Tieck, a Colorado-born Methodist minister who found additional vocations in the Bronx as one of the borough's most active community leaders and its most venerated local historian, died last Monday at a hospital in Pittsfield, Mass., near his vacation home. He was 89 and had been the borough's official historian from 1980 until last year.
        Dr. Tieck insisted that his ministry was his most important work, but he took such a broad view of his calling that it was easy to forget.
        Almost from the moment he became pastor of St. Stephen's United Methodist Church at 228th Street and Marble Hill Avenue in 1946, he was deeply involved in Bronx civic life, particularly in the Riverdale-Kingsbridge area of the Bronx.
        He served as president of the Riverdale Community Council, the local planning board, the Riverdale Mental Health Association and the local chapter of the United Nations Association; he helped found the Kingsbridge Historical Association and the Marble Hill Community Council, and he was in the forefront of picketing for civil rights and against the war in Vietnam.
        A lean and nimble man of infectious enthusiasm whose eyes gleamed and whose voice dropped into a kind of rapid half whisper when he was excited, Dr. Tieck found much that was exciting, whether it was the details of local history that he turned up or his belief that a shared interest in the past could be a unifying, reconciling force in a fragmented society.
        Dr. Tieck, who took pride in his discovery of the exact Harlem River location of the old King's Bridge that gave the neighborhood its name, delighted in saying the local waters once teemed with giant lobsters, some five feet long, that were scared away, never to return, by the cannonading of the Revolutionary War.
        As a native of Denver who grew up there and in Southern California and graduated from the University of Redlands in Redlands, Calif., Dr. Tieck had barely heard of the Bronx and had no special interest in history until after he came east to study for the ministry, first at the Drew Theological Seminary in Madison, N.J., and then at the Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan, from which he received a master's degree in 1947 before obtaining his doctorate from Columbia in 1953.
        It was the assignment to St. Stephen's in 1946 that led to his interest in the Bronx, but it was a cornerstone that changed his life. When he spotted the ''1897'' marker and realized that the building's 50th anniversary was just a year away, a bell rang in his head.
        By the time he had finished rummaging through records and preparing for a 50th anniversary celebration, he had assembled material for a book, ''God's House and the Old Kingsbridge Road.'' He had also learned that the church was the third built by a congregation dating from 1826, a discovery that led to a 125th anniversary celebration in 1951.
        He went on to research, write and publish several other books, among them ''Riverdale, Kingsbridge, Spuyten Duyvil: New York City.''
        The book, published in 1968, includes often riveting recollections, some dating to the 1870's, gathered during 20 years of interviewing elderly residents.
        Whether he was in the pulpit, discussing history, running a community board meeting or circulating a petition, Dr. Tieck radiated such warmth and optimism that he seemed to touch almost everybody he met with a special light.
        That was so much the case that at his funeral on Friday, one of his Jewish friends told a minister that if Jesus had wanted to send someone to be His representative on Earth, he imagined Dr. Tieck would be just the kind of man He would pick. It was an observation, the minister replied, that several of Dr. Tieck's Methodist friends had also made.
        Dr. Tieck, forced to leave St. Stephen's when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1977, did not stay retired long. When he learned of a proposal to turn the landmark Edgehill Church at Spuyten Duyvil into a community center because its congregation had dwindled, he was so anguished by the prospect that he stepped in as pastor, helping it survive.
        For Dr. Tieck, who had lived at St. Stephen's until he retired and moved to Kingsbridge, the forced retirement had one advantage.. For the first time he had an address in the Bronx. As he never tired of telling visitors unfamiliar with the city's geographic history, although it is on the Bronx side of the Harlem River, St. Stephen's Marble Hill neighborhood is technically a part of Manhattan, or as he liked to put it, ''like the tiny point of an exclamation mark.''
        Dr. Tieck, who never married, leaves no survivors.
      