
        Sidney G. Stricker Jr., a marketing and advertising executive and business consultant, died on Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a nephew, Simon Lazarus.
        As president of a division of Schenley Industries in the late 1950's, Mr. Stricker helped develop the slogan, ''If you can find a better bourbon, buy it.'' It helped bolster sales of Ancient Age bourbon and was used in its advertising for decades.
        He left Schenley after 13 years to head international marketing and sales for Revlon in 1975. In 1983, he branched out on his own to begin a  consulting firm, Stricker & Zagor,  with Howard S. Zagor, another New York businessman.
        Mr. Stricker entered the liquor business in the early 1950's, shortly after receiving a degree from the University of Cincinnati's College of Law, in his hometown. He started in St. Louis as what the liquor industry then referred to as ''a missionary man,'' promoting the virtues of Schenley liquors to distributors, package stores and bar owners. William Sederbaum, who was then the regional manager for Schenley in the Midwest, said that Mr. Stricker, tall and elegant, with a resonant voice, soon charmed his clients.
        ''We gave him quotas and he doubled them, tripled them,'' Mr. Sederbaum said. ''He was a hot item.''
        Within a year, Mr. Stricker had been promoted to state manager for sales in Kentucky. Two years later, he was sent to New York City to head  a new division to concentrate on I. W. Harper and Ancient Age bourbons. Not long after that, he coined the winning slogan.
        A bachelor into his 40's, Mr. Stricker met his wife, Lesley Somerville, a British scuba diving instructor and public relations specialist, at a reception for a new line of Revlon perfumes in London in the early 1960's. They had one son, Robert George, who followed his father into marketing.
        As a young man, Mr. Stricker was smitten by professional baseball, football and jazz. In New York, he struck up friendships with athletes like Hank Greenberg, the Detroit Tigers slugger, and the Wimbledon  champion Dick Savitt, and became a regular at the city's jazz clubs. He began a Sunday night poker game with show business figures like Arlene Francis and Judy Holliday.
        In addition to his wife and son, who live in Chappaqua, Mr. Stricker is survived by two sisters, Harriet Lazarus and Madeline Landsman, and a brother, George Stricker, all of Cincinnati.
      