
        Maj. Gen. Winston Peabody Wilson, the architect of the United States' modern Ready Reserve -- ready to join the regular forces swiftly on overseas missions -- died on Tuesday at Baptist East Hospital in Memphis, where he was taken after a stroke. He was 85 and lived in Forrest City, Ark.
        General Wilson, a combat pilot, came to the Pentagon's attention in the 1950's when he took charge of the Air National Guard as a deputy chief of the National Guard Bureau. Within years he whipped what insider critics after World War II debunked as a glorified collection of tax-supported clubs into disciplined tactical and transport squadrons.
        Under his leadership, the wings of the National Guard proved themselves during the 1961 Berlin crisis, when their units bolstered American airborne might.
        After that mobilization, General Wilson steadily built the muscle of the force and became known as Mr. Air National Guard around the Pentagon. In recognition of his performance, he was appointed in 1963 as chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Pentagon liaison office to army and air guard units nationwide. He was the first air officer in that job,  was reappointed four years later and retired in 1971.
        The bureau he headed was unusual in the military establishment in that it dealt with militias that were legally autonomous and under state command -- barring a national emergency. The Pentagon's sway over such far-flung command structures came with the Federal tax dollars that provided over 90 percent of their upkeep.
        Among General Wilson's first concerns were efficiency, economy and preparedness for national contingencies. He began by ordering the guards to upgrade their accustomed weekly drills to monthly weekend training with field exercises.
        In the end the reserves, including members of the guards, trained side-by-side with regular troops. The reservists are also regularly used for humanitarian and rescue missions as well as some combat, airlift and air-refueling assignments.
        Orders from Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson removed vestiges of racial discrimination in the military, which had officially been integrated under President Harry Truman. General Wilson issued the directives to make the Guard finally follow suit.
        He used his friendship and considerable influence with recalcitrant governors, adjutants general and other guard officials in the South and  elsewhere where guard units routinely barred blacks. Where persuasion failed, he bluntly told those concerned that they had to accept all standards set by the Pentagon, which held the purse strings.
        Winston Wilson was born in Arkadelphia, Ark., but grew up in Little Rock, where his high-school mates shortened his name to Win. A coach's yell for ''Win P. Wilson'' to take to the field prompted them to corrupt that into Wimpy, which stuck for life.
        He began his military career as an airplane mechanic with the Arkansas National Guard in 1929 and received his pilot's license in 1936. In World War II he served in the Far East and on mapping missions in South America and Alaska.
        He re-enlisted in the Arkansas Air National Guard immediately after the war and made his mark with innovative training programs for its flying outfits, now amply equipped with P-51 fighters. He was recalled to active duty in the Korean War, from which he emerged as a full colonel.
        In the Korean War, the Air Guard units had little say over how they were used by the regular Air Force.  The experience gave General Wilson and an old friend, Brigadier Earl T. Ricks, head of the Arkansas National Guard, the conceptual underpinnings for overhauling that state unit the moment it was demobilized.
        General Wilson's wife, Margaret, died in 1994 after 52 years of marriage; they had no children. He is survived by a brother, Robert M., and a sister, Jean Wilson Anthony, both of Little Rock.
      