
        Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts who was the only candidate in the 1992 Democratic Presidential campaign to offer painful solutions to the nation's economic problems, died last night at a hospital in Boston. He was 55.
        Mr. Tsongas, who was hospitalized on Jan. 3 with a liver problem related to his treatments for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a slow-growing cancer of the lymph system, and later developed pneumonia, died at Brigham and Women's Hospital, officials told The Associated Press.
        Mr. Tsongas made his survival from cancer an issue in his Presidential campaign when he and two of his doctors, Dr. Tak Takvorian and Dr. George Canellos, said he had been cancer-free since a bone-marrow transplant in 1986.
        In May 1996, he underwent another transplant, getting bone marrow from his twin sister, Thaleia Schlesinger, to correct myelodysplasia, a bone-marrow disorder common in people who have recovered from lymph cancer.
        In seeking the nomination, Mr. Tsongas offered a somber analysis of the nation's economic plight in a book published by his campaign, ''Economic Call to Arms.'' He opposed a tax cut for the middle class but advocated one on capital gains to stimulate investment.
        Instead of fire-in-the-belly oratory, Mr. Tsongas offered a wry, self-deprecatory and occasionally moralistic message about responsibility. He began the primariy campaign with a victory in New Hampshire and went on to win in three other states and the caucuses of four states.
        He suspended his campaign after losing primaries in Illinois and Michigan. By not formally withdrawing, Mr. Tsongas retained his delegates, which totaled 551 by convention time, but Bill Clinton had more than the 2,145 needed for nomination.
        Mr. Tsongas once said three things defined him: working as a young man in his father's dry-cleaning business in the economically depressed city of Lowell, Mass., serving in the Peace Corps and contracting the cancer that interrupted his political career in 1983.
        He said the first made him aware of economic hardships; the second brought a joy in public service that led to a political career, and the third, his cancer, tempered what he called an overriding ambition.
        ''Pre-cancer, I was one of the pettiest people you've ever run into,'' Mr. Tsongas said in an interview in 1992. ''I would get angry at my wife for leaving the top off the toothpaste. I'd get angry at my kids for the dumbest things. Looking back on it I feel mortified. I was a fool.''
        In his Presidential run, he tried to blend his three defining experiences into a political philosophy, characterizing his emphasis on building the economy as well as maintaining traditional Democratic social programs as ''compassionate realism.''
        At the start of the campaign, Mr. Tsongas used what he said was his victory over the disease in his advertisements, and demonstrated his health by swimming the strenuous butterfly stroke. His doctors said he had been free of the disease after a bone marrow transplant in 1986.
        But in April 1992, a few days after the New York primary, Mr. Tsongas conceded that he had been treated in 1987 for a recurrence of the lymphoma. Months after the campaign, Mr. Tsongas said he had erred in not disclosing the recurrence.
        He pledged that if he ever ran again, he would submit his medical records to independent experts.
        Most of Mr. Tsongas's political career was a triumph against the odds. After serving on the Lowell City Council from 1969 to 1972 and later as a Middlesex County Commissioner, he decided to seek the Congressional seat for his home district in 1974.
        He won the Democratic primary with 70 percent of the vote. Then, in the aftermath of Watergate, he defeated the one-term Republican incumbent, Paul W. Cronin, to become the first Democrat to represent the district in about 90 years.
        In 1978 he was one of five Democrats who sought to challenge Senator Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts. Mr. Tsongas won the primary with 36 percent of the vote and then defeated Senator Brooke by about 200,000 votes.
        On Sept. 29, 1983, when Mr. Tsongas discovered a lump in his groin, he thought it was a hernia, an inconvenience that would interfere with his plans to run in the Boston Marathon. But it was the cancer that would change his life.
        What followed was a painful bone marrow transplant that left him with a new sense of his mortality. With that came a desire to spend more time with his family and subsequently a decision to retire from the Senate. He then joined the Boston law firm of Foley, Hoag & Eliot, saying that there he could earn the kind of income that would provide security for his family should he die.
        But Mr. Tsongas said he did not want to be remembered only as the Senator who quit his political career because he had cancer.
        In part, he said, it was his five-year freedom from cancer that had prompted him to run for the Democratic nomination when President George Bush's popularity was at its high point. But Mr. Tsongas had long coveted the office.
        Like President Clinton, Mr. Tsongas was inspired to go into politics by President John F. Kennedy. In 1962, answering Kennedy's call to public service, Mr. Tsongas was among the first young people to join the newly created Peace Corps. He spent two years as a teacher in Ethiopia.
        After returning to the United States, he attended Yale Law School and spent two summers working in the Washington office of Representative F. Bradford Morse, a Republican who represented Mr. Tsongas's home district.
        Fascinated by the Vietnam War, Mr. Tsongas read about Vietnam and studied its language. He considered becoming a medic with the Green Berets. Instead, after he finished law school, he returned to the Peace Corps as director in the West Indies. Unable to recapture the satisfaction he had felt as a volunteer, he decided to go into politics, this time as a Democrat. Mr. Tsongas attributed the switch to his experience in the Peace Corps and growing up in a declining city.
        Paul Efthemios Tsongas was born Feb. 14, 1941, in Lowell, the son of Efthemios and Katina Tsongas, who had immigrated from Greece. Growing up in Lowell after the closing of the textile mills, he keenly felt the plight of its residents. It was a city whose empty factories and stores and jobless workers, he said, reflected the economic troubles of the nation as a whole.
        His father, who had missed graduating from Harvard by a semester because of the Depression, owned a modest dry-cleaning business where Paul and his twin sister, Thaleia, worked after school. He straightened hangers, he said, and brooded about not being able to take part in school sports because of the work.
        Mr. Tsongas said he had had a respectful and sometimes strained relationship with his father, particularly when the son's growing liberalism conflicted with his father's conservatism. The elder Mr. Tsongas died in 1980, and Paul Tsongas's mother died tuberculosis when he 6.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Nicola Sauvage; three daughters, Ashlay, Katina, and Molly, and his twin sister, Thaleia Schlesinger.
        On Dec. 1, 1992, when he disclosed at a news conference that he had developed a new type of lymphoma, Mr. Tsongas exhibited his characteristically dry humor. Asked what he would say if he had been elected President, he replied: ''I would love to be standing here today as President-elect. The fact is a lot of people who should have run for President didn't. There was a medical problem with gonads, not lymph nodes.''
      