
        Saul B. Marantz, a pioneer in the development of high-fidelity audio components, died last Thursday at Somerset Medical Center in Somerville, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Bridgewater, N.J.
        A man of many parts -- photographer, classical guitarist, graphics designer, collector of Chinese and Japanese art -- Mr. Marantz was fascinated by electronics from his boyhood days in Brooklyn. His passion for music led to his first attempts at building audio components.
        In the 1950's and 60's, the Marantz name became synonymous with audio products that were pleasing to look at, easy to use, durable and sonically first rate. Working with audio engineers like Sidney Smith and Richard Sequerra, Mr. Marantz created a series of vacuum-tube components that became touchstones for the fledgling hi-fi industry. Several of those products, like the Model 9 amplifier and the Model 10B tuner, have become still-working classics that today command as much as $20,000.
        With the advent of transistor technology in the early 1960's, Mr. Marantz and his colleagues soon brought forth another benchmark product, the Model 18 receiver. It was an early, high-quality example of what a receiver, which combines the preamplifier, power amplifier and tuner in one box, could be.
        To younger audio designers, the Marantz name symbolized clarity of vision and integrity of purpose. When a modern-day audio expert, Mark Levinson, had completed the design of one of his first now-famous components, in 1974, he took it to Mr. Marantz for an appraisal.
        ''What impressed me about Marantz design was its elegant simplicity, its economy and symmetry,'' recalled Mr. Levinson, now the president of Cello Music and Film Systems, a high-end electronics company. ''In a sense, Marantz was building classics. The equipment was so thoroughly engineered that, once a product was finished, few changes ever were necessary.''
        After service in the Army during World War II, Mr. Marantz and his wife, Jean Dickey Marantz, settled in Kew Gardens, Queens. One day in 1945, he decided to rip the radio out of his 1940 Mercury, where he rarely listened to it, and put it to more practical use in his house. But that transplant required building additional electronics to make the radio work indoors. Such was the hook that snared Mr. Marantz for life.
        Further efforts to refine sound reproduction in his living room led Mr. Marantz to a breakthrough. Piecing together parts and tips he picked up on his frequent visits to a Harvey Radio store in Manhattan, he built a high-quality preamplifier he called the ''Consolette.''
        Word of this musical-sounding new device began to spread across the emerging hi-fi scene, and Mr. Marantz suddenly found himself an entrepreneur, though on a back-room scale. Then into his business walked Mr. Smith, an engineer captivated by Mr. Marantz's sense of the possibilities of sound reproduction. Their creative partnership took the Marantz Company to world prominence.
        The two men's shared perfectionism proved to be the original company's downfall. In a recent interview, Mr. Marantz acknowledged that the cost of developing perhaps the most celebrated of all Marantz products, the Model 10B tuner, in which both Mr. Smith and Mr. Sequerra played significant roles, fatally overextended the company's resources.
        In 1964, Marantz was sold to Superscope Inc. and has since passed through several hands. The present owner, Philips Electronics N.V., last year reintroduced nearly exact likenesses of the original products under the name of Marantz Classics.
        After the sale to Superscope, Mr. Marantz stayed as president until 1968 and then retired -- briefly. In 1972, he co-founded the Dahlquist Company, a maker of high-quality loudspeakers, serving as president until his second retirement in 1978. Last year, he helped to form two new audio businesses, the New Lineage Corporation and Eye Q loudspeakers.
        Mr. Marantz was a member of several professional organizations, including the Audio Engineering Society. He served as vice president and member of the board of the Institute of High Fidelity.
        He is survived by a daughter, June M. Chamberlain of Bound Brook, N.J.; a brother, Charles E. Marantz of Costa Mesa, Calif.; a sister, Edith M. Marksohn of Oyster Bay Cove, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      