
        Paul Kresh, an author, critic, record producer and broadcaster who specialized in spoken-word recordings, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        Steve Potofsky, a friend, said the cause was Parkinson's disease.
        Mr. Kresh produced dozens of recordings of poets reading their own works for the Spoken Arts and Caedmon record labels in the 1960's and early 70's. He was the original editor of the expansive ''Spoken Arts Treasury of 100 Modern American Poets Reading Their Poems,'' a series released on LP in 1969 and reissued on tape in the late 1980's. The treasury included readings by Allen Ginsberg, E. E. Cummings, Robert Frost, Gertrude Stein, Theodore Roethke, Ogden Nash and W. H. Auden.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Kresh produced several recordings for the Listening Library tape series, including portraits of George Orwell and Virginia Woolf, and readings of ''High Spirits'' by Robertson Davies and short stories by Katherine Mansfield.
        Mr. Kresh also wrote prolifically. His books included ''Isaac Bashevis Singer: The Magician of West 86th Street,'' and ''The Power of the Unknown Citizen,'' about things community groups can accomplish.
        He also wrote two biographies for children, ''Isaac Bashevis Singer: The Story of a Storyteller'' and ''An American Rhapsody: The Story of George Gershwin.''
        As a critic, he reviewed popular and classical music, as well as spoken-word recordings. He was a contributing editor of Stereo Review and the American Record Guide, and contributed record reviews to The New York Times, High Fidelity, Musical America, Ovation, Classical Music, Audiofile and Victoria.
        Mr. Kresh was born in Manhattan and attended Columbia University and City College. In the 1940's, he worked as a radio scriptwriter for WNYC and as a publicity director and writer for several Jewish organizations, including the National Jewish Welfare Board, the Council of Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds and the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. He later directed educational film strips for the United Jewish Appeal, and became that organization's creative director in 1971.
        He produced several radio series, including the World of Jewish Music, which won an Armstrong Award in 1982. He was the host of ''The Story Department,'' a daily program on WQXR-AM in 1989 and 1990, and the author of scripts for several documentary films, mostly on Jewish subjects. They included ''The Day the Doors Closed'' (1965), ''Broken Sabbath'' (1974), ''Commitment'' (1976) and ''On the Brink of Peace'' (1980).
        No immediate family members survive.
      