
        Lord Rippon of HexhamRippon of Hexham, the chief negotiator of Britain's entry into the Common Market, died on Tuesday at his home near Bridgwater in the county of Somerset in southwestern England. He was 72.
        He had a long illness, the Press Association, Britain's domestic news agency, reported.
        Lord Rippon was known as plain Geoffrey Rippon and was Britain's sharp-tongued, right-wing Conservative Minister of Technology in July 1970 when Prime Minister Edward Heath gave him the assignment of negotiating the country's entry into the European Economic Community. Britain formally became a Common Market member in January 1973.
        Sir Edward, who was Prime Minister from 1970 to 1974, said in a statement yesterday that Lord Rippon had played a key role in preparing the ground for Britain's entry into the Common Market.
        ''He was skillful in handling not only international affairs but also domestic problems,'' Sir Edward said, ''and his ability to influence not only members of both houses of Parliament, but also the press and the public, was of immense value.''
        An able lawyer who had several government posts under Mr. Heath and two other Prime Ministers, Mr. Rippon was made a life peer -- a baron -- by Queen Elizabeth in 1987. The title Lord Rippon of Hexham recalled his parliamentary constituency from 1966 to 1987, Hexham in the county of Northumberland in northern England.
        He was elected to the Borough Council in the London suburb of Surbiton when he was only 21, was called to the bar and then rose to be Surbiton's Mayor and an influential member of the London County Council, while making a living as a barrister.
        After unsuccessful attempts at election to the House of Commons, he first won a seat, initially from the Norwich South constituency 100 miles northeast of London, in 1955. As an M.P. he made a name for himself and became a Cabinet member, as Minister of of Public Buildings and Works, before he was 40.
        He also became a junior member of Britain's team at the first round of negotiations for membership in the Common Market, from 1961 to 1963. Before being named to the Common Market negotiating post in 1970, Mr. Rippon expressed strong support for Britain's acquiring membership, but he took a hard line on the terms of entry while managing to get along well with the Foreign Ministers of the Common Market member countries.
        In his later years he was active in the business world. He served as chairman of Unichem, a British pharmaceuticals concern, from 1990 until his death.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ann Leyland, whom he married in 1946; and one son and three daughters.
      