
        Dr. Oscar Auerbach, a pathologist who found the first evidence in human lung tissue of a link between cancer and smoking and is credited with discoveries that turned millions of people away from cigarettes, died yesterday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J.
        He was 92 and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        Dr. Auerbach's work was brought to national attention in 1964, when it was prominently cited in the first Surgeon General's report about the dangers of smoking.
        His methods of cancer research were one reason many physicians, policymakers and smokers took his findings more seriously than earlier reports of a smoking-cancer link, said Dr. Lawrence Garfinkel, a researcher and former vice president of the American Cancer Society.
        Looking at thousands of slides of human tissue, Dr. Auerbach coded each slide by clues to cell damage he found and whether the person had cancer or precancerous symptoms.
        ''He could look at 2,000 slides a day, when others were looking at 200 a day,'' said Dr. Garfinkel. ''He was tireless.'' One paper was based on 22,000 slides, about 50 slides from each patient.
        Dr. Auerbach's results, published in the 1960's, were immediately debated and had powerful long-term effects. After the Surgeon General's report, a major policy response required cigarette packages to carry a warning that cigarettes could be harmful to health.
        An antismoking movement emerged in the 1970's, and new regulations began to require nonsmoking areas in public places.
        By using slides of individual patients, Dr. Auerbach convinced doctors that the cancer-smoking connection could not be discounted.
        Earlier studies had taken large groups of people and found statistical links between cancer and smoking patterns: the more smoking, the more cancer.
        Dr. Auerbach took the detective work a step beyond statistics. What he found was the more cigarettes smoked, the greater the degree of lung damage, as seen in the tissue.
        He also looked at the effects of passive smoking, or inhaling smoke in the environment. In papers, several of them written with Dr. Garfinkel, he showed a direct relationship between the amount of smoke and the degree of lung damage. He also documented that filtered cigarettes  produced less damage.
        At one point, Dr. Auerbach trained dogs -- 86 beagles -- to smoke, and  12 of them developed cancer. It was said to be the first instance of tumors produced in large animals exposed to cigarette smoke. The American Cancer Society, which helped finance much of his research, announced that the results ''effectively refute contentions by cigarette-manufacturing interests that there was no cigarette-cancer link.'' The Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group, replied that it was ''impossible'' to draw conclusions from work on dogs subject to ''stressful laboratory conclusions.''
        Dr. Auerbach himself shied away from the politics of cancer and smoking. ''He never got in the pulpit,'' Dr. Garfinkel said. ''He was never an activist. He was just a scientist and teacher.''
        He taught from 1966 to his death at New Jersey Medical School, part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. As recently as a week ago, he was lecturing and training residents at St. Barnabas Hospital and the University Hospital.
        His study of the slides of damaged organs showed that a pack-a-day smoker had a greater likelihood than a light smoker of a range of lung damage including hyperplasia, stratification and changes in the nuclei of cells. The highest frequency of smoking corresponded to the highest rate of lung cancer.
        Other studies showed that when patients quit smoking, the damage began to disappear. ''They actually healed themselves,'' Dr. Garfinkel said. ''They repaired the damage.''
        One study of the effects of his findings found that by 1989, in the 25 years after the first Surgeon General's report on smoking, 750,000 lives had been saved because of people's decisions never to smoke.
        Dr. Auerbach was born in Manhattan and never graduated from high school or college. He began college after taking entrance tests to New York University, then left to enter the New York Medical College in Manhattan, where he got his medical degree in 1929.
        He worked briefly at Sea View Hospital, a city-run tuberculosis center, and at Halloran Hospital, both on Staten Island, in the 1930's and 40's. From 1952, he held several positions at the Veterans Administration hospital in East Orange, including senior medical investigator, a title he held at the time of his death. He also taught pathology at New York Medical College for 12 years.
        He briefly studied pathology in Vienna, where he met his first wife, Dora Herman Auerbach. She died in 1984. A brief second marriage in 1985 to Lana Auerbach ended in divorce. He is survived by two sons, Richard C., of Missoula, Mont., and Dr. Bruce E., of Pottstown, Pa.; a brother, William, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a sister, Minnie Shlosh of Englishtown, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      