
        Dr. Lee Willerman, a behavioral geneticist who looked for the ways biology could explain intelligence and mental problems, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 57.
        Dr. Willerman died after a heart attack, according to the University of Texas at Austin, where he held the psychology department's first endowed chair.
        To sort out the effects of environment and heredity, Dr. Willerman spent more than 25 years working on the Texas Adoption Project, which is studying about 590 adopted and biological children of adoptive families.
        Dr. John C. Loehlin, a professor emeritus at the University of Texas who worked with Dr. Willerman on the adoption project, said it was meant to find out whether biologically unrelated children who grew up together developed similar personalities and intelligence. Researchers found that unrelated children living in the same families showed ''no family resemblance as teen-agers and later adolescents, although they had shown some as young children.''
        Dr. Willerman was widely known for studies, based on magnetic resonance imaging scans, or M.R.I.'s, indicating that the larger the brain, relative to body size, the more likely a person was to have a high intelligence, Dr. Loehlin said.
        While work on the heritability of intelligence has often been hotly debated, said Dr. Randy Diehl, chairman of the University of Texas psychology department, Dr. Willerman ''tried to remove some of the emotion and hysteria from this controversial topic.''
        Dr. Willerman and Dr. Robert T. Schultz, an assistant professor at the Child Study Center at the Yale University School of Medicine, used M.R.I. scans to find out if there was a bottleneck in the brain where the processing of information converged, a discrete area that determined whether a brain functioned at a high level in a variety of areas. While their work did not find one place that seemed to do that, it indicated that anatomically dispersed areas in the frontal lobes of the brain might serve such a function.
        In other research, Dr. Willerman looked for physical indicators of psychological pathologies like schizophrenia.
        Dr. Willerman wrote two widely used textbooks: ''The Psychology of Individual and Group Differences'' (W. H. Freeman & Company, 1979) and, with David Cohen, ''Psychopathology'' (McGraw-Hill, 1990).
        Lee Willerman was born on July 26, 1939, in Chicago to a Russian immigrant family. He was offered a scholarship to the University of Chicago at the age of 16, but he delayed his college education to travel, first as a yo-yo champion and later as a sailor on a freighter. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at Roosevelt University in 1961 and 1964, then got his Ph.D. at Wayne State University in 1967.
        Dr. Willerman is survived by his wife, the former Benne Susan Secter; two daughters, Amiel Romain and Raquel, both of Austin, and two brothers, Oscar and Marvin, both of Chicago.
      