
        Gary Gilbert Fryer, a former counselor and press secretary to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and a special assistant to the Yale University president since 1993, died Monday at the Yale Health Services Center in New Haven. He was 45 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his wife, Joanne Segal Fryer, said.
        Mr. Fryer was director of communications for Governor Cuomo from 1987 through 1990 and became one of the Governor's principal advisers on policy issues. He began work in the Governor's press office in 1983 and became deputy director of communications the next year, a position he held until he was made director.
        He resigned from the Governor's staff in 1990 and became executive vice president of the Lawrence Management Group, a part of the Lawrence group of insurance companies in Albany. From 1991 to 1993, he was also a trustee of the 64-campus State University of New York.
        Among reporters who covered the Governor's office, as well as among state officials, including Governor Cuomo, Mr. Fryer was known for speaking accurately and honestly.
        Mr. Cuomo said that he and Mr. Fryer did not always agree, and that Mr. Fryer sometimes sent memos criticizing him, for being too hard on a staff member for example.
        ''At first, you'd start reading the memo and say, 'What is this!' ,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''But by the time you finished it, you thought it was beautifully written, courageous, and I was the one who felt hurt and needed to apologize.''
        Through a mutual friend, Mr. Fryer asked Mr. Cuomo to speak at the funeral. ''He gave me some lines about the importance of never, never quitting,'' Mr. Cuomo said, and then advised him about the eulogy: keep it short.
        Mr. Fryer was born in Orange, N.J., and graduated from Seton Hall University in 1973. He worked for The Record in Amsterdam, N.Y., and then as director of communications for the Civil Service Employees Association, A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        In addition to his wife, who lives in Woodbridge, he is survived by a son, Adam, of Delmar, N.Y., by a previous marriage to Donna Fryer, also of Delmar; triplets, Matthew, Jennifer and Rebecca; his father, Arthur, of Whiting, N.J.; a brother, Arthur, of Verona, N.J., and two sisters, Judy Shaw of Fresno, Calif., and Carol Sutphin of Blacksburg, Va.
      