
        A sloganeering full-page ad has been appearing in British newspapers that pictures the candidates for prime minister and announces, ''Frankly, it doesn't matter who you vote for; he won't be running anyway.''
        In stark white letters on a black background, another says, ''John Major is impotent.'' A third reads, ''Meet the British Government,'' and displays the pictures of the 20 European Union commissioners.
        The pugnacious calls to action signal the characteristically combative return of Sir James Goldsmith.
        The 63-year-old binational billionaire exited the country dramatically years ago to seek his fortune elsewhere but is now back with his own new political party, to which he has pledged more than $30 million.
        Sir James long ago proved his powers of persuasion. He prevailed upon three formidable women, the mothers of seven of his children, to remain for decades in their assigned places -- London, Paris and a 17th-century Burgundy chateau -- for drop-in visits from his Lear-jetted, globe-trotting life.
        Now he is turning his charm on the British electorate. He has created his Referendum Party to halt Britain's integration into the European Union by disavowing the treaties it has signed over the past 40 years.
        A cosmopolitan version of Ross Perot, Sir James has pledged $32 million from his foundation and whatever more of his billion-dollar fortune it will take to put up as many as 600 candidates for the House of Commons and conduct a national media campaign for his party.
        His quarrel with Europe centers on his belief that its countries restrict the kind of unfettered business practices that Britain has championed since Margaret Thatcher. Nor has his quarrel been softened by his dual French-British nationality.
        The effort has drawn derision from the British press because of the Mayfair gambling club cronies, aging socialites, Battle of Britain pilots, colonial service officers, old school tie chums and Tories inconsolable over the departure of Prime Minister Thatcher who have flocked to its standard. Sir James cheerfully calls them his ''rabble army.''
        The image of the party as a bunch of dotty eccentrics intensified in October with the coverage of its convention in Brighton. The affair began with the 4,000 delegates watching a video that telescoped anti-European sentiments down into tightly blinkered repugnance of Germany.
        To the strains of the militaristic theme from the film ''The Mission,'' and at a slow-motion pace that lent menace to everything pictured, Chancellor Helmut Kohl was shown lumbering down a narrow hotel corridor while quotations from his plans for a united Europe swept across the screen. German flags unfurled; drums rolled. Then the film cut to tanks rolling through a village.
        If the visual message did not score a hit, there were speakers like Lord Tonypandy, 83, to help spot the target. ''History has told us,'' he said, ''that when German chancellors outline in advance what their intentions are, it is criminal irresponsibility not to take their threats seriously.''
        The correspondent for The Financial Times said one could have been forgiven for mistaking the hum of the air conditioners in the seaside Grand Hotel for the sound of Messerschmitts crossing the Channel.
        But this ridicule has not lessened the consternation in the already anxious campaign offices of the Conservative Party. Calculations reveal that even a modest showing for the upstart party could tip the election to Labor in 25 to 30 districts. Labor is already running more than 20 points ahead of the Tories in polls for the election, which must occur by May.
        Conservative officials have complained that Sir James, an outspoken foe of the left, might end up responsible for electing a Labor government.
        The Referendum Party is a one-issue party. It seeks a commitment from the Government to hold a plebiscite on whether the British want to be absorbed in a federal European ''superstate'' or retain the country's sovereignty and associate with the Europeans just as trading partners. Once the referendum is set, Sir James has promised, the party will cease to exist.
        Goaded by his entry into the race, both major parties have declared that they will hold referendums of their own on any commitment to the next phase of European Union, the adoption of a single currency scheduled for 1999.
        But Sir James, a world-class backgammon player and a sure-handed gambler since accumulating $14,000 in horse race winnings while a student at Eton, was not so easily bought off.
        ''The politicians seek to bluff the British people into thinking that they have been offered a real referendum,'' he told business people in Bristol. ''This was no more than a political maneuver which does not address the fundamental issues and is wholly unsatisfactory.''
        Bristol is the home of the Federation of Small Business, whose members are just the kind of successful managers so taken with Sir James's warnings about the ''unelected, supercilious bureaucrats of Brussels'' and Europe as the socialistic ''black hole of despair.''
        There was no doubting his appeal to the thousand of them who turned out to hear him one recent Sunday afternoon in Bristol University's Victorian Rooms auditorium; they gave him a standing ovation.
        This is a genteel revolution, and Sir James, notorious for blunt statements, was overtly correct and polite in his attacks on the Government and the untrustworthy forces across the English Channel. Gentlemanly cries of ''Hear! Hear!'' greeted his pronouncements.
        Just as he once dazzled boardroom opponents with his mastery of the details of balance sheets and economic forecasts, he demonstrated his knowledge of the various treaties he objected to by citing specific language, articles and subsections.
        What cannot be measured is how broad the party's appeal will be come election day and what proportion of the many Tory voters who question integration will vote Referendum rather than Conservative. Many Tory candidates have said they plan to conduct their personal campaigns on a more ''Euroskeptical'' stance than that of their leader, Prime Minister Major.
        Sir James, a sleek 6 foot 3 with a restless energy that legions of associates have testified is almost entrancingly infectious, is a compelling leader. Nothing, he has often said, rouses him like high-risk ventures. In 1979 he turned his back on Britain, which was then under a Labor Government, and in 1990 he got out of business altogether. So why has he come back?
        ''It was more painful to watch the accident happen than to try to stop it,'' was Sir James's response when the question was put to him by a member of the audience here in Bristol. Over a seven-month period he declined repeatedly to discuss his reasons with The New York Times.
        ''He's a bored millionaire who is seeking power without responsibility,'' said David Mellor, a Conservative member of Parliament from suburban London whom Sir James is running against.
        The Referendum Party has, if nothing else, put Sir James back in the headlines, a place he first landed in 1954, when as a 20-year-old playboy he eloped to Scotland with an 18-year-old Bolivian tin heiress, Isabel Patino. A year later she died giving birth to his first child.
        He took up with Ginette Lery, a business associate in France, who was to become the mother of his second and third children. He eventually married her but was already seeing Annabel Birley, the Englishwoman for whom the London nightclub Annabel's was named.
        Sir James divorced Ginette to marry Annabel, mother of three of his eight children, with the understanding that he would maintain relations with both women. At that time he had already started seeing a young French journalist named Laure Boulay de la Meurthe. She is his present companion and the mother of his last two children.
        Sir James began his business life in pharmaceuticals in France, then moved to food manufacturing and retailing in Britain and eventually ended up in the United States, where he was the owner of Grand Union and succeeded as a corporate raider.
        In 1990 he retired, building his Xanadu on an 18,000-acre tract carved out of the Mexican jungle.
        In 1993 he wrote a treatise against European political union and unfettered world trade called ''Le Piege'' (''The Trap'') in France and saw it become a best seller. That led to his winning a French seat in the European Parliament in Strasbourg -- he has French citizenship, having been born in Paris to a French mother. It also led to the creation of a gathering called the Europe of Nations Group, to advance his antifederal views on the continent. He founded the Referendum Party a year ago to do the same thing here.
        Though his father was a member of the British Parliament, he has never held politicians in high regard. He once famously said that he would like to ''vomit'' all over the House of Commons. Finding this image useful to describe another institution he holds in contempt, he said that all one could expect from the press was ''malicious puke.''
        He was treated with respect approaching wonder by the press in the days of his market successes. But a highly publicized 1976 battle in which he unsuccessfully pursued criminal rather than civil proceedings against the satirical magazine Private Eye changed his image. He was seen less as a sophisticated financial wizard with a seductive way of life than a nostril-flaring, table-pounding obsessive with mean-spirited political views.
        It has been reported that Prime Minister Harold Wilson was thinking of naming him to the House of Lords that year but because of the Private Eye ruckus confined his gift to a knighthood.
        Sir James later tried to become a newspaper owner, bidding for The Observer and then The Express before starting his own newsmagazine, Now!, which folded in a year.
        Now he has returned as the self-appointed defender of a country he once shunned. ''Let me make just one promise,'' he said at his party conference. ''We, the rabble army, we in the Referendum Party, we will strive with all our strength to obtain for the people of these islands the right to decide whether or not Britain should remain a nation.''
        Correction:  January 6, 1997, Monday
        Because of a transcription error, a front-page article on Friday about the British tycoon Sir James Goldsmith omitted a word from a political advertisement in British newspapers that pictures the candidates for prime minister. It should have read: ''Frankly, it doesn't matter who you vote for; he won't be running Britain anyway.''
      