
        Leonard Altman, a musician, teacher, writer and arts administrator who played an important role in the preservation of Carnegie Hall and was director of the music division of the New York State Council of the Arts, died on Tuesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in Santa Monica.
        Tim Page, a friend of Mr. Altman, said Mr. Altman had committed suicide by taking an overdose of pills. He had been rendered virtually immobile by Parkinson's disease in recent years.
        Mr. Altman was born in Boston in 1920. He attended the Boston Latin School and completed a bachelor's degree in music at Harvard University and a master's degree at New York University. In the 1950's and 60's, he contributed articles about music to Stereo Review, The American Record Guide and Musical America and was the editor and publisher of Listen: A Music Monthly from 1963 to 1965.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, he produced more than 200 music programs for WNYC-TV, as well as hundreds of radio programs for stations in New York, Boston and Los Angeles.
        Mr. Altman was also editor in chief of the Leeds Music Corporation, a music publisher, from 1960 to 1963, and the chief executive officer of the Concert Artists Guild -- an organization that supports young musicians early in their careers -- from 1969 to 1973.
        Several times he took up the causes of historic halls that were in danger of being destroyed. Soon after he moved to New York from Boston in 1958, he helped Isaac Stern start the Citizens Committee to Save Carnegie Hall. When that effort succeeded, Mr. Altman joined the hall's board, remaining a member until 1974.
        In 1965, he became the executive chairman of the Citizens Committee for the Preservation of the Old Metropolitan Opera House, which was to be torn down after the Met moved to Lincoln Center. As in the Carnegie project, he recruited celebrities to the cause, including Leopold Stokowski, Marian Anderson, Licia Albanese and Tony Randall, but this time he was unable to stop the wrecker's ball. The Old Met came down in 1967.
        Mr. Altman was the director of the music division of the New York State Council on the Arts from 1973 to 1979. He was also a lecturer at New York University and taught at the New School for Social Research; Queens College, where he was chairman of the music department from 1962 to 1965, and the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass.,  where he was the artistic and administrative coordinator of the opera program for several years.
        Soon after he moved to California in 1979, Mr. Altman was appointed executive director of the Los Angeles County Music and Performing Arts Commission. He was also an adviser on music and dance to the California Arts Council, and from the late 1980's he was director of the Maestro Foundation, which presented private concerts in California homes.
        Mr. Altman is survived by Neal Sideman, his companion, and by a sister, Natalie Rosenblatt of Louisville, Ky.
      