
        Philip M. Wagner, who founded Maryland's best-known winery, Boordy Vineyards, and introduced French-American hybrid grapes to America, died on Sunday at his home in Riderwood, Md. He was 92.
        The cause was emphysema and heart failure, a family member said.
        Mr. Wagner, who was a former editorial page editor at The Baltimore Sun, opened Boordy in 1945 in a parallel career, after 15 years of experimenting with various grape varieties at his five-acre vineyard just north of Baltimore. It was, he said, America's first winery dedicated to producing wines from French-American hybrid grapes.
        An amateur wine maker and grape grower during Prohibition, Mr. Wagner found that the California and European grape vinifera varieties he preferred perished in the high Eastern climate.
        And, since he disliked the taste of wine made from native American labrusca varieties like Concord and Delaware, he switched to the hybrids.
        French-American hybrids are crosses between labrusca and vinifera vines intended to withstand cold climates and high humidity and still have the taste of the best European grapes. Using hybrid cuttings shipped from Bordeaux, Mr. Wagner grew vines that by 1936 were producing what he called ''wines that taste like wine.'' He revised the book he had written in 1933, ''American Wines and How to Make Them,'' to reflect his experiences with hybrid vines. So many people asked to buy cuttings that he opened a plant nursery and then the winery.
        ''It was not long before connoisseurs in New York and Washington learned that entirely new kinds of  wines were being made in Maryland,'' Leon D. Adams, the wine historian, noted in his book ''The Wines of America.'' At their peak, the Wagners were making about 8,000 gallons of wine a year.
        ''They could have sold 20 times as much,'' Mr. Adams wrote.
        The Wagners sold the Boordy name and equipment in 1980, but kept the nursery to supply their hybrid vines to growers nationwide.
        Philip Marshall Wagner was born in New Haven, and grew up in Ann Arbor, Mich., where his father was professor of romance languages at the University of Michigan. The Wagners drank wine at home, and Philip trained his palate there.
        He joined The Baltimore Sun in 1930 as an editorial writer. In 1938, he succeeded H. L. Mencken as editor of the paper's editorial page. One of Mr. Wagner's first articles on American wines appeared in 1933 in The American Mercury, Mr. Mencken's magazine. Mr. Wagner became The Sun's chief editorial writer in 1943. He retired in 1964 but continued to write articles on wine and public affairs.
        Mr. Wagner's book was revised many times and was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1976 under the title, ''Grapes into Wine: The Art of Wine Making in America.'' He once described wine making as ''the perfect foil for the nervous and intellectual strains of newspaper work.''
        ''It is slow-paced,'' he continued, ''provides plenty of exercise in the open, and in both the vineyard and the winery, is deliciously free of ethical problems.''
        Mr. Wagner is survived by a son, Philip; a daughter, Susan Wagner, and a sister, Mary Elizabeth Gall.
      