
        Jeffrey St. John, a print and broadcast journalist and author known for his conservative views, died on Jan. 3 of lung cancer at his home in Randolph, Va., said his wife, Kathryn. He was 66.
        In a career that spanned four decades, Mr. St. John worked in radio and television as a talk show host, a reporter and commentator for stations in New York, Washington and San Francisco, including CBS Television and Radio, Mutual Broadcasting, NBC's ''Today'' program and ABC Radio.
        He wrote and narrated ''Headlines and History,'' a daily radio feature translated into 26 languages and broadcast by the Voice of America. He received two Emmy awards for his work in television.
        In the early 1970's, he offered commentary for ''Spectrum,'' a CBS daily radio opinion series.
        While many characterized his views as conservative, Mr. St. John disliked the label, preferring to call himself a libertarian.
        Even though he generally disdained politics and politicians, in 1966 Mr. St. John made an unsuccessful run on the Conservative Party ticket for New York's 17th Congressional District seat, which had been vacated by John V. Lindsay to campaign for mayor of New York.
        In a newspaper profile that appeared before the election, Mr. St. John told an interviewer, ''I want to be what I am, not what somebody wants me to be.''
        Too many people, he contended, ''don't really say in public what they think in private.''
        In print, Mr. St. John contributed commentary to a number of daily newspapers, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Christian Science Monitor. He was a syndicated columnist for Copley News Service and was a regular contributor to Saturday Review and Barron's.
        He also wrote eight books, including a trilogy on the founding of the United States: ''Constitutional Journal: A Correspondent's Report on the Convention of 1787,'' ''Child of Fortune: Ratification of the U.S. Constitution and Battle for a Bill of Rights'' and ''Forge of Union, Anvil of Liberty.''
        Born in Philadelphia on July 14, 1930, Mr. St. John was adopted at 14 months by a Canadian couple, and until he was 14, he lived with them on a 200-acre ranch near Calgary.
        Unhappy on the ranch, he left with $200 advanced by friends in Calgary and started an odyssey that took him from Vancouver to Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and then to Louisiana State University.
        Although he worked for The Associated Press in Baton Rouge, La., Mr. St. John's real start in journalism was during the Korean War, when he worked as a correspondent-cameraman for Pacific Stars and Stripes.
        He never graduated from college, but was very well informed, helped by an almost photographic memory and an omnivorous appetite for reading.
        ''He loved to quote Mencken, who said that all journalists are ignoramuses and proud of it,'' said Jameson Campaigne, publisher of Jameson Books and a friend of Mr. St. John since the 1960's, referring to the journalist and author H. L. Mencken. ''But unlike most journalists, who don't read enough books, he had an enormous library. By any stretch of the imagination, his was not sound-bite journalism.''
        Mr. St. John is survived by his wife, the former Kathryn Boggs.
      