
        Noel Keane, a lawyer who became a focus of deep affection and bitter debate for arranging surrogate motherhoods, including the one that led to the Baby M battle in 1986, died on Sunday at his home in Dearborn, Mich. He was 58.
        Mr. Keane's son Christopher, his partner in the firm of Keane & Keane in Dearborn, said his father died of melanoma.
        In 1976, Mr. Keane negotiated and drafted the first formal contract between a surrogate mother and a married couple in the United States. In the years afterward, in the midst of courtroom battles and philosophical, moral, religious and legislative arguments, he remained a strong  proponent of surrogate motherhood.
        At his death, Christopher Keane said, Mr. Keane counted 600 children around the world whose births he had arranged. Many were named for him by grateful parents. He compiled scrapbooks filled with their photographs.
        Proponents depicted surrogate parenthood as a humane and ethical way to allow infertile people to reproduce. Opponents called the technique a perversion of science that equated life with a product and termed it baby selling for profit.
        In a typical agreement, a woman is artificially inseminated with sperm from a man whose wife cannot conceive. At term, the surrogate mother surrenders her parental rights, receives a fee and turns over the baby to its biological father, whose wife may then become its adoptive mother.
        Although other cases raised issues about surrogate parents, the furor reached a crucial point in 1986 in a trial in New Jersey that grew out of a surrogate motherhood arranged by Mr. Keane. Mary Beth Whitehead signed a $10,000 contract to carry the baby of William Stern.
        But Mrs. Whitehead changed her mind and sued for custody of the child, known as Baby M. Mr. Stern and his wife, Elizabeth, won custody of the girl, but State Supreme Court  in New Jersey ruled that commercial surrogate-motherhood contracts  were illegal and awarded Mrs. Whitehead visiting rights.
        Mrs. Whitehead sued Mr. Keane, saying he had not adequately screened her. In 1988, she won an out-of-court settlement reported at $30,000 to $40,000.
        Michigan and many other states,  like New Jersey, later enacted laws to prevent couples from adopting  children of surrogate mothers who were hired to bear children. But Mr. Keane continued to maintain an office, the Infertility Center of America in Indianapolis, where he brought together childless couples and women willing to bear their children.
        In the seven years after he had plunged into a largely unknown area of law by drawing up his first surrogate-parenthood contract, Mr. Keane rapidly became the best-known lawyer in the field. In 1983, against a background in difficulty in adoption and a scarcity of white babies available for adoption, Mr. Keane said he had been contacted by more than 2,000 couples. He opened Infertility Centers in regions like California, Indiana, Michigan, New York and Nevada to bring together childless couples and prospective mothers.
        In a typical arrangement, the child-bearing woman received $10,000. The fees included $7,500 to the center, as well as charges for legal, medical and travel services and paternity tests. All told, couples were advised to expect to pay $22,000  to $25,000.
        By the time the Baby M case went to trial in 1987, Mr. Keane's two-story offices in Dearborn were full of prospective surrogate mothers, often accompanied by husbands and babies scrutinized by well-groomed infertile couples who had traveled from as far as New York or Texas.
        One young man pointed to his companion, a prospective surrogate mother, and said: ''I'll take care of her when she's pregnant again. But the baby means absolutely nothing. It's like watching someone's car for nine months. We're in it for the money. It's a business. That's the way we look at it.''
        The previous year, Mr. Keane's surrogate practice had grossed $600,000.
        After his death, his sister, Maureen Keane-Doran, was quoted as saying that Mr. Keane had been hurt by criticism of his work. ''People who had the kids gave him such gratitude that he kept going,'' she said. ''He knew what he was doing was right and good.''
        Mr. Keane, one of five children of parents who had immigrated from Ireland, was born and reared in Dearborn. He graduated from local schools, spent two years in the Army and received a bachelor's degree from Eastern Michigan University and a law degree from the University of Detroit.
        After graduation, he entered general law practice in Dearborn, but his life changed when he was asked to draw up arrangements for a couple that had found a surrogate mother.
        In addition to his son and sister, another son, Douglas, of Manhattan, survives, as well as two brothers, Gerald, of Plymouth, Mich., and Thomas.
      