
        Marcus Gerhardt Langseth, a pioneering earth scientist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory for 40 years, died on Saturday at his home in Palisades, N.Y. He was 64.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Lillian Langseth.
        In the late 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Langseth, working with Robert Gerard and Maurice Ewing, developed one of the first modern instruments and techniques for measuring the flow of heat through the Earth's upper layers.
        On numerous expeditions aboard Columbia's research ship, the Velma, he gathered heat-flow measurements from the world's oceans. With this data, he and Richard Von Herzen at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution compiled the first global picture of how and where heat flowed near the Earth's surface. The picture they painted helped to prove the emerging theory of plate tectonics and to reveal how the ocean floor evolved.
        ''It was a great advance in heat-flow research,'' Dr. Von Herzen said.
        Dr. Langseth headed the Apollo lunar heat-flow experiment, adapting his heat-flow devices and helping to design special drills to insert probes in the hard lunar surface. The experiment, conducted by astronauts on the final mission, Apollo 17, confirmed the Moon's loss of much of its internal heat.
        Dr. Langseth was born in Lebanon, Tenn., on Nov. 24, 1932. His parents separated three years later and he lived with his siblings in the Monroe Children's Home in Nashville, where he mother later worked.
        He graduated from Waynesburg College in 1954, served in the Army from 1956 to 1958 and received his Ph.D. in geophysics from Columbia in 1964. He began working at the observatory while an undergraduate. In 1993, he was appointed the Palisades Geophysical Institute Senior Scientist there. He was also an adjunct professor of earth and environmental sciences at Columbia.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sisters, Christine Benagh of Nashville and Elva Corbitt of Lewisville, Tex.
      