
        A. Richardson Goodlatte, the Transit Authority official who fought graffiti tooth and nail but found that eternal vigilance and a bit of elbow grease was all it took to keep subway cars more or less pristine even as similar measures kept them on the rails and out of the shop, died on Saturday at a hospital near his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 57 and had retired last year.
        His family said the cause was bone cancer, a disease he had battled since 1990, when he was forced to step down as vice president for rapid transit and take a medical leave. He had returned in 1991 as chief electrical officer.
        When Mr. Goodlatte joined the Transit Authority as chief mechanical officer in 1984, the 6,000-car fleet of subway cars was in a shambles. As the man who hired him, David L. Gunn, the former T.A. president who is now with the Toronto Transit Commission, recalled it yesterday, the cars were not only filthy, smelly and covered with graffiti, they were so plagued with breakdowns that they averaged less than 6,000 miles between trips to the shop.
        At first glance, Mr. Goodlatte would hardly have seemed to be the man to set things straight. He was, he once admitted, a chief mechanical officer so devoid of mechanical aptitude that he didn't know how to turn a wrench.
        Indeed, Mr. Goodlatte, a native of Montclair, N.J., who grew up in East Longmeadow, Mass., did not even have an engineering background. After a stint in the Navy he graduated from the University of Massachusetts with a degree in business administration, then worked for a series of companies before Mr. Gunn, then in charge of Massachusetts Bay Rapid Transit, hired him in 1976.
        If Mr. Goodlatte was not a mechanic, he had an even more valuable skill for an organization that was, after all, awash in mechanics. He was a master at management, or, as Mr. Gunn described it, ''the art of getting someone else to do what you want them to do.''
        As a host of skeptics came to appreciate, Mr. Goodlatte, a smiling bearded man of perpetual good cheer, not only was a highly focused executive who knew how to analyze a problem and come up with a detailed plan of corrective action, he was also a consummate motivator, one who listened carefully to his subordinates, incorporated their ideas, and then, having drawn them in, set them loose in carrying out the decisions they had helped fashion.
        That, give or take a few union fights, is how Mr. Goodlatte revolutionized the Transit Authority's maintenance operations and cleaned up the cars.
        There were those, to be sure, who regarded subway graffiti as a form of folk art, and by 1984 it was so ubiquitous, sometimes covering entire trains, that even those who saw it as the beginning of the end of western civilization had come to regard it as an intractable problem.
        Charged with getting rid of it, Mr. Goodlatte took it one car at a time. Starting with the No. 7 Flushing line, he stationed cleaning crews at each terminal and ordered them to remove graffiti from each car as it came in. If a job was too big to handle, the train was taken out of service and sent to the yard for a thorough cleaning.
        The approach caused some delays and inconvenience, but Mr. Goodlatte's theory that graffiti artists who did not get to see their handiwork in motion would soon become discouraged proved correct.
        After initial success on the Flushing line, the program was extended to other lines until 1989, when the Transit Authority ceremoniously took what it described as the last graffiti-covered train out of service for a final cleaning and declared the entire system graffiti free.
        There have been some flareups since, and in 1991 Mr. Goodlatte had to reconvene a graffiti task force he had formed, but for the most part subway cars have remained remarkably clean.
        For all that visible success, however, Mr. Goodlatte's most significant contribution was in revolutionizing the Transit Authority's approach to maintenance and repairs. When he took over, Mr. Gunn noted, repairs were piecemeal, with a car sent to the barn to fix a broken hose one week and sent back to repair a faulty motor a few weeks later.
        Mr. Goodlatte introduced a system in which every car in the system was sent in to be gutted and totally refitted with new or rebuilt equipment. The program, coupled with new acquisitions, has had stunning results.
        Subway cars that once averaged less than 6,000 miles between maintenance stops now average more than 66,000 miles between repairs.
        Mr. Goodlatte is survived by his mother, Jean, of East Longmeadow; his wife, Joan; a daughter, Virginia; two sons, Douglas, of Orlando, Fla., and Andrew of Boston, and two brothers, William, of Foxboro, Mass., and Peter, of Silver Spring, Md.
      