
        Mary Bancroft, a Boston Brahmin colleen who cut a coquettish swath through 20th-century history, bewitching men of power even as she did brilliant work as an American spy in Switzerland in World War II, died on Jan. 10 at her Fifth Avenue apartment. She was 93.
        If Mary Bancroft had not existed, a hack novelist would surely have invented her, or tried.
        Dime store fiction could undoubtedly have accommodated her cliche origins as the daughter of a patrician, Harvard-trained lawyer and a distinctly declasse Irish girl, who died in childbirth, setting up her father's marriage to a disapproving, if not quite wicked, stepmother.
        He left his daughter to be reared by a paternal grandmother with such a haughty and virulent disdain for the Irish that it was years before Miss Bancroft learned that the woman had herself been an Irish working girl before marrying into the august Bancroft family.
        It would have taken a Dickens to invent Nolan, the Bancroft coachman who became Miss Bancroft's constant childhood companion, sharing her delight in the day's news, especially of war and disaster.
        And a Dickens could even have contrived for her father's second wife to be the stepdaughter of Clarence Barron, the short, rotund powerhouse owner of The Wall Street Journal who encouraged his step-granddaughter to meet and study people of all walks of life, ''even gamblers and crooks,'' and who gave her what became her credo as a sometime journalist and spy: ''Facts are not the truth but only indicate where the truth may lie.''
        A novelist might have foreseen that a daring, restless woman would find Smith College such a bore that she would escape after a year into what turned out to be a stultifying marriage to a teen-age chum and then divorce and seek refuge in another loveless marriage, this time to a Swiss businessman.
        But it would have taken a remarkable visionary to have imagined Miss Bancroft's later life as an accomplished spy, a woman with such penetrating intelligence, infallible intuition and boundless verve -- not to mention legs that rarely failed to draw a second glance -- that her intellectual, emotional or romantic conquests included Carl Jung, Woody Allen and Henry R. Luce.
        To Jung, the psychologist who became her confidant during her years in Switzerland, her appeal was textbook obvious. In his scheme of things she was an extroverted intuitive, one who had experienced such fierce inter-family battles for her affections as a child that power had become her natural element. She had such an instinctive knack for wielding it, he told her, that men seeking or holding power would cherish her advice, as indeed they did.
        Her relationships were often platonic, apparently -- and surprisingly -- including even her postwar fling in New York with Luce, the Time Inc. founder and a legendary ladies' man.
        But as her own 1983 book, ''Autobiography of a Spy,'' makes explicit, her wartime romance with Allen Dulles, the American spymaster who laid the groundwork for the Central Intelligence Agency with his brilliant successes in Switzerland in World War II, was as torrid as they come.
        At the time, Miss Bancroft's second marriage was beginning to unravel, and Mr. Dulles, whose wife was in the United States, was looking for recruits to interview the hundreds of refugees, adventurers and spies who poured into officially neutral Switzerland from every corner of wartime Europe.
        Impressed with the insightful analyses of German articles and speeches she had prepared for one of his associates, he sought her out, quickly concluding that she would be an ideal operative, and more.
        ''It should work out very well,'' he blurted out on their second meeting. ''We can let the work cover the romance -- and the romance cover the work.'' The remark might have seemed startling considering that the subject of romance had not been mentioned, but Mr. Dulles was as perceptive as his recruit. The logic appealed to her, and so did he.
        In what became a regular routine, she would help him prepare his legendary nightly telephone reports to Washington at his home in Bern, and then the two would engage in what she called ''a bit of dalliance.''
        As a spy, she interviewed and sized up visitors from Germany and German-occupied territory, sometimes with startling results. One contact  provided the first inkling that a previously unknown figure named Joseph Broz had become the man to deal with in Yugoslavia, where he was known as Tito.
        When her German maid's brother-in-law wrote from the Russian front asking for an aluminum spoon, noting that his wife had told him none was available in Germany, she picked up a critical clue about the war's effects on German production.
        By far her most important work was with Hans Bernd Gisevius, a top officer of German military intelligence, who was not only a key figure in a vast plot to kill Hitler and set up a civilian democracy but who, well in advance of what turned out to be a bungled assassination attempt on July 20, 1944, had supplied a manuscript detailing the conspiracy.
        Miss Bancroft was entrusted with translating the manuscript into English (Gisevius wanted it published immediately after the coup), but her real job was to make sure he was not a double agent (she concluded he was not) and then to elicit and pass on the detailed information he supplied about the day-to-day shifts of power and strategy within the German Government.
        After the war, her daughter said, Miss Bancroft settled in New York, wrote a few novels, lectured on Jung, became active in local Democratic politics, became friends with Woody Allen and became Luce's confidant.
        When her daughter, Mary Jane, married Horace Taft, the son of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, the wedding pictures were published in Life, -- ''a present from Luce,'' Mrs. Taft said.
        In addition to her daughter, of Atlanta, Miss Bancroft is survived by 6 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      