
        Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts who was the only candidate in the 1992 Democratic Presidential campaign to offer painful solutions to the nation's economic problems, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston. He was 55.
        Mr. Tsongas, who was hospitalized on Jan. 3 with a liver problem related to his treatments for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a slow-growing cancer of the lymph system, and later developed pneumonia, died at Brigham and Women's Hospital.
        Mr. Tsongas made his survival from cancer an issue in his Presidential campaign when he and two of his doctors, Dr. Tak Takvorian and Dr. George P. Canellos, said he had been cancer-free since a bone-marrow transplant in 1986.
        In May 1996, he underwent another transplant, getting bone marrow from his twin sister, Thaleia Schlesinger, to correct myelodysplasia, a bone-marrow disorder that can occur in people who have recovered from lymph cancer.
        In seeking the nomination in 1992, Mr. Tsongas offered a somber analysis of the nation's economic plight in a book published by his campaign, ''Economic Call to Arms.'' He opposed a tax cut for the middle class but advocated one on capital gains to stimulate investment.
        Instead of fire-in-the-belly oratory, Mr. Tsongas offered a wry, self-deprecatory and occasionally moralistic message about responsibility. He began the primary campaign with a victory in New Hampshire and went on to win three other state primaries and the caucuses of four states.
        He suspended his campaign after losing primaries in Illinois and Michigan. Bill Clinton went on to win the nomination and the Presidency.
        After leaving the Presidential race, Mr. Tsongas practiced law and, with former Senator Warren Rudman of New Hampshire, a Republican, helped start the Concord Coalition, a nonprofit group that focused attention on the budget deficit and other economic problems.
        He also remained active in public affairs in his home state.
        Mr. Tsongas once said three things defined him: working as a young man in his father's dry-cleaning business in the economically depressed city of Lowell, Mass., serving in the Peace Corps and contracting the cancer that interrupted his political career in 1983.
        He said the first made him aware of economic hardships; the second brought a joy in public service that led to a political career, and the third tempered what he called an overriding ambition.
        ''Pre-cancer, I was one of the pettiest people you've ever run into,'' Mr. Tsongas said in an interview in 1992. ''I would get angry at my wife for leaving the top off the toothpaste. I'd get angry at my kids for the dumbest things. Looking back on it I feel mortified. I was a fool.''
        In his Presidential run, he tried to blend his three defining experiences into a political philosophy, characterizing his emphasis on building the economy as well as maintaining traditional Democratic social programs as ''compassionate realism.''
        At the start of the campaign, Mr. Tsongas used what he said was his victory over the disease in his advertisements, and demonstrated his health by swimming the strenuous butterfly stroke.
        But in April 1992, a few days after the New York primary, Mr. Tsongas said that he had been treated in 1987 for a recurrence of the lymphoma. Months after the campaign, Mr. Tsongas said he had erred in not disclosing the recurrence.
        He pledged that if he ever ran again, he would submit his medical records to independent experts.
        Mr. Tsongas began his political career on the Lowell City Council, on which he served from 1969 to 1972. He later became a Middlesex County Commissioner. In 1974, he defeated Representative Paul W. Cronin, a Republican, to become the district's first Democratic member of Congress in about 90 years.
        In 1978, he defeated Senator Edward W. Brooke, a two-term Republican, with 55 percent of the vote.
        On Sept. 29, 1983, when Mr. Tsongas discovered a lump in his groin, he thought it was a hernia, an inconvenience that would interfere with his plans to run in the Boston Marathon. But it was the cancer that would change his life.
        What followed was a painful bone marrow transplant that left him with a new sense of his mortality. With that came a desire to spend more time with his family and subsequently a decision to retire from the Senate. He then joined the Boston law firm of Foley, Hoag & Eliot, saying that there he could earn the kind of income that would provide security for his family should he die.
        But Mr. Tsongas said he did not want to be remembered only as the Senator who quit his political career because he had cancer.
        In part, he said, it was his five-year freedom from cancer that had prompted him to run for the Democratic nomination when President George Bush's popularity was at its high point in 1991. But Mr. Tsongas had long coveted the office.
        Like President Clinton, Mr. Tsongas was inspired to go into politics by President John F. Kennedy. In 1962, answering President Kennedy's call to public service, Mr. Tsongas was among the first young people to join the new Peace Corps. He spent two years as a teacher in Ethiopia.
        He then attended Yale Law School and spent two summers working in the Washington office of Representative F. Bradford Morse, a Republican who represented Mr. Tsongas's home district.
        Fascinated by the Vietnam War, Mr. Tsongas read about Vietnam and studied its language. He considered becoming a medic with the Green Berets. Instead, after he finished law school, he became a Peace Corps director in the West Indies. Unable to recapture the satisfaction he had felt as a volunteer, he decided to go into politics, this time as a Democrat. Mr. Tsongas attributed the switch to his experience in the Peace Corps and growing up in a declining city.
        Paul Efthemios Tsongas was born Feb. 14, 1941, in Lowell, the son of Efthemios and Katina Tsongas, immigrants from Greece. Growing up in Lowell after the closing of the textile mills, he keenly felt the plight of its residents. It was a city whose empty factories and stores and jobless workers, he said, reflected the troubles of the nation as a whole.
        His father, who had missed graduating from Harvard by a semester because of the Depression, owned a modest dry-cleaning business where Paul and Thaleia worked after school. He straightened hangers, he said, and brooded about not being able to take part in school sports because of the work.
        Mr. Tsongas said he had a respectful and sometimes strained relationship with his father, particularly when the son's growing liberalism conflicted with his father's conservatism. The elder Mr. Tsongas died in 1980, and Paul Tsongas's mother died of tuberculosis when he was 6.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Nicola Sauvage; three daughters, Ashley, Katina and Molly, and his twin sister, Thaleia Schlesinger.
        On Dec. 1, 1992, when he disclosed at a news conference that he had developed another type of lymphoma, Mr. Tsongas exhibited his dry humor. Asked what he would say if he had been elected President, he replied: ''I would love to be standing here today as President-elect. The fact is a lot of people who should have run for President didn't. There was a medical problem with gonads, not lymph nodes.''
      