
        Brig. Gen. Edwin Van Valkenberg Sutherland, a soldier and scholar who was one of the first Americans to start fighting the Germans in World War II and among the last to quit, died on Jan. 6 at a hospital in Rochester, N.Y. A longtime resident of Amagansett, L.I., he was 82 and had ended his 41-year Army career after teaching literature to cadets as head of the English Department at West Point.
        As an observer, with the British Eighth Army in North Africa in 1942 before the United States committed its own forces, General Sutherland, who was known as Van, had the dubious distinction of having his unit overrun by the Afrika Korps. He was cut off from his command and missing in action for several days.
        But he found his way back throwing himself into the successful effort to drive the Germans out of North Africa, pursuing them across Sicily and up the Italian boot. He then went to England to prepare for the Normandy invasion before resuming his offensive on D-Day.
        Landing on Omaha Beach as executive officer of the 26th Infantry, part  of the First Infantry Division, he took command of the regiment, won distinction in the Battle of the Bulge, and eventually linked up with Russian troops in Czechoslovakia on the eve of the German surrender.
        Then, having accomplished what he and his country had set out to do, he had the special satisfaction as a 31-year-old lieutenant colonel of being put in command of the military security forces at Nuremberg. The post, which made him the de facto warden of the prison where the Nazi high command and other war crimes suspects were kept during the Nuremberg trials, put him in daily contact with the prisoners and provided him enough anectodes to dine out on for the rest of his life.
        General Sutherland, who obtained a transfer after a few months, was safely off the scene when Hermann Goringcommitted suicide in his cell.
        The son of an independent-minded, globe-trotting newspaperman who was forever being dismissed for his outspoken left-wing views, General Sutherland was born in New York City and grew up outside Philadelphia, where his father always managed to find another newspaper to hire him.
        Like a number of his Depression-era classmates, General Sutherland, who had a lifelong literary bent and was a frequent contributor to campus publications, seems to have sought appointment to West Point more to get a free, first-class education than to prepare for a military career.
        Whether it was the Depression or the timing of the wars that followed, his class of 1936 has been considered unusually distinguished, partly because the 276 graduates included more than 60 future generals, among them three chiefs of staff (William C. Westmoreland, Creighton Abrams and Bruce Palmer); and Benjamin O. Davis, the black commander of the Tuskegee airmen.
        General Sutherland found Army life so congenial that he stayed on after the war, among other things heading an Army mission to Paraguay and serving as deputy commander of a mission to Cambodia.
        Known for the range of his interests and his surprising knowledge of obscure subjects, he also picked up a master's degree in comparative literature from Columbia and a doctorate in folklore from the University of Pennsylvania. (His 2,000-page thesis was on an 1869 West Point graduate, John Gregory Bourke, an instinctive anthropologist who made a remarkable record of American Indian customs and numbered among his friends both Robert E. Lee and Sigmund Freud.)
        Just as many of his classmates were being drawn into the quagmire of Vietnam, General Sutherland joined the West Point faculty in 1961. He stayed until 1977, when he became the last member of his distinguished class to retire.
        As a teacher, General Sutherland, whose academic specialty was the novel, cut a flamboyant figure, endearing both students and colleagues with his big red handlebar mustache and his cheerful but persistent refusal to obey repeated orders to shave it off.
        In the classroom he wore a more or less regulation uniform, but in the offices of the English department, General Sutherland was the picture of professorial pipe-smoking chic, favoring a tweed jacket with leather elbow patches worn over his uniform shirt.
        He is survived by a son, Alec, of Rochester, a daughter, Janet Guldbeck, also of Rochester; a sister, Jean, of Jaffrey, N.H., and two grandchildren.
      