
        Joseph J. Loferski, a physicist and pioneer in the development of modern solar cells, died on Monday in Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 71 and lived in Providence.
        A spokeswoman for Brown University, where Dr. Loferski was an emeritus professor of engineering, said the cause of death was cancer.
        In a four-decade career, Dr. Loferski published more than 150 technical papers and contributed chapters to five books. Although much of his work focused on photovoltaic cells, which convert the energy in light to electricity, he also wrote and spoke extensively on the physics of semiconductor materials like silicon.
        The observation that light could generate an electric current in an electrolyte solution, known as the photovoltaic effect, was first reported in 1839.
        What Dr. Loferski and other early researchers into solar cells demonstrated was that semiconductor devices might one day produce commercially competitive, pollution-free electricity. Today, solar cells provide electricity for a variety of items, from portable calculators to commercial satellites.
        Joseph J. Loferski was born on Aug. 7, 1925, in Hudson, Pa. In 1948, he earned a bachelor's degree from Scranton University. He received his master's degree in 1949 and doctorate in 1953 from the University of Pennsylvania.
        Upon graduation, he joined RCA Laboratories in Princeton, N.J., and, with Dr. Paul Rappaport, now deceased, began researching solar energy and photovoltaic cells.
        In 1961, Dr. Loferski joined the Brown faculty as an associate professor of engineering. He served as chairman of the school's division of engineering from 1968 to 1974, and was associate dean of the graduate school from 1980 to 1983.
        He was a consultant for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Departments of Defense and the Navy, as well as private companies, including RCA and Honeywell. He was also the co-recipient of six patents in the semiconductor field. Dr. Loferski was a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, which gave him the William R. Cherry Award in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Sylvia D. Sweeda; his mother, Mary of Hudson, Pa.; two sisters, Helen Christman of Selinsgrove, Pa., and Marie Kunec of Falls Church, Va.; a brother, S. James, of Kitty Hawk, N.C.; four daughters, Patricia J., of Herndon, Va., Dr. Barbara L., of Providence, Marianne L. Fleury of Chevy Chase, Md., and Sharon L. Engler of Philadelphia; two sons, Joseph R. of Blacksburg, Va., and Michael A. of Monkton, Md., and 10 grandchildren.
      