
        Jim Kensil, the former team president of the Jets who was once described by the former National Football League commissioner Pete Rozelle as ''my offensive and defensive coordinator'' for the indispensable way he ran the league's daily operation, died yesterday in Massapequa (L.I.) General Hospital. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from a recent heart attack, the Jets said. A huge, florid man who smoked heavily and had a passion for sports, he watched both conference championships last Sunday from his hospital bed, even as he was suffering from pneumonia.
        Although the Jets never got to a Super Bowl in Mr. Kensil's 11-year tenure, which started in 1977, the team advanced to the post-season four times in the 1980's and reached the 1982 conference title game.
        As head of the Jets, Mr. Kensil believed in sticking with coaches he had in place. Thus, when Walt Michaels's 1981 team started 0-3 after a disappointing 1980 season, Mr. Kensil refused to dismiss him, calling him ''a good coach.'' The team righted itself and ended a 12-year drought by reaching the playoffs that season.
        He brought some stability to the franchise as well as a penchant for secrecy. In fact, his daughter, Mary Jo, was married a few days before he resigned his Jets position in 1988 for health reasons, and she had no inkling of his plans. He did not want her to worry about his health or to have wedding guests asking him questions about the Jets.
        After 16 years in the league office, Mr. Kensil became the Jets' president on Mr. Rozelle's recommendation.
        ''I turned to Pete Rozelle for advice and he suggested his right-hand man,'' said the Jets' owner, Leon Hess, chairman of the Amerada Hess Corporation. ''We were fortunate. Jim gave us stability.''
        Mr. Kensil was a sports fan in the extreme. Despite his health problems, he continued to root (in vain, mostly) for the Jets and attend their home games.
        He was born in Philadelphia on Aug. 19, 1930. His career in sports began as a student correspondent at the University of Pennsylvania. He joined The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch, where he wrote a radio-television column on sports, one of the earliest such assignments.
        After several writing assignments with The Associated Press, he joined the N.F.L. as public relations director in 1961. In 1968 he became the league's executive director, while the league itself was becoming the most admired sports operation in the United States under Mr. Rozelle's stewardship. Mr. Rozelle courted Congressmen and network executives, and Mr. Kensil did the difficult day-in, day-out work of dealing with the league's increasingly broader operations.
        Mr. Kensil and Mr. Rozelle, who recently died and for whom there was a memorial service yesterday in New York, helped the league achieve an image of well-run harmony and success. At one point, every league official in a policy-making position was a former public-relations expert.
        Mr. Kensil is survived by his wife, Catherine, and four children, Mike, who is the Jets' operations director; Mary Jo, Danny and Joe, and five grandchildren.
      