
        Harry B. Helmsley, New York's preeminent real estate investor, broker and deal maker whose reputation late in life was clouded by tax evasion charges in a case that led to a four-year prison term for his wife, Leona, died Saturday at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 87 and lived mainly in Scottsdale and in Greenwich, Conn.
        The immediate cause was pneumonia, and his wife was with him at his death, said Howard J. Rubenstein, longtime spokesman for Mr. Helmsley. He said Mr. Helmsley had been in failing health for several years and had been in the hospital for a week.
        A supremely self-made man, Mr. Helmsley began his career in 1925 as a $12-a-week office boy and ended it with great wealth at the head of Helmsley Enterprises, but in the shadow of his forceful second wife, Leona, whom he married in 1972 after divorcing his first wife. While both were indicted for income tax evasion, in 1989 Mr. Helmsley was found mentally unfit to stand trial.
        In his heyday, the tall, witty and outgoing Harry Helmsley amassed a strikingly diverse portfolio of property, becoming either the sole owner or an ownership partner in real estate worth about $5 billion. Last year, in the wake of a sale of a number of properties, Forbes magazine estimated Mr. Helmsley's personal worth at $1.7 billion, and his death is expected to intensify a dispute over his assets. $(Page B1.$)
        Although Mr. Helmsley developed new buildings, most of his properties were already built and occupied when he and his partners bought them. At his zenith as an owner, he held or controlled some of the most famous and admired office buildings in New York, including the Empire State Building. Mr. Rubenstein said yesterday that in memory of her husband Leona Helmsley had decided to turn off the ever-changing colored lights that decorate the Empire State Building for seven nights, beginning the night he died.
        Among other notable properties that he owned or controlled, frequently with major partners, were the Helmsley Building at 230 Park Avenue; the Lincoln Building at 60 East 42d Street; the Graybar Building at 420 Lexington Avenue; 1350 Broadway; the Flatiron Building at 175 Fifth Avenue; the Toy Center at 200 Fifth Avenue, and the Fisk Building at 250 West 57th Street.
        There were also large residential developments that Mr. Helmsley and partners bought and managed -- Tudor City and Park West Village in Manhattan, Parkchester in the Bronx and Fresh Meadows in Queens. He also had a stake in such major industrial properties as the Bush Terminal in Brooklyn and the Starrett-Lehigh Building in Manhattan, a marvel of engineering that can raise whole railroad cars to its upper floors on elevators.
        By 1989 he had become just as well known for his hotels, particularly the Helmsley Palace on Madison Avenue, of which the Helmsleys had come to be co-owners along with numerous other investors. Relentless advertising featured Mrs. Helmsley as its demanding queen standing guard over the welfare of her guests. Other Helmsley hotels included the Park Lane on Central Park South and the Helmsley Windsor on West 58th Street.
        A Life Spent In Relentless Acquisition
        Whether to describe Mr. Helmsley as primarily an owner, broker or property manager was difficult for many colleagues, because he was all three and a consultant and appraiser as well. Mainly, he loved to make a deal. He once summed up his success this way:
        ''You start in the business and you manage and you lease and then all of sudden you see a property, and you think that is a good buy and you sell it to somebody. Then, after you've done that a number of times, you say, 'Why am I selling this to somebody else? Why don't I buy it?'
        ''So you get a group together, it might require $10,000 and $20,000. Now, whatever I'm doing is really the same thing with a couple of noughts added to the end. Deals get bigger as you have more confidence. All of a sudden you are buying apartment houses as well as office buildings and loft buildings. A deal comes along that looks good, and you are in the hotel business, which you never expected to be in.''
        Though his properties may have been worth $5 billion, his personal stake -- as distinct from the mortgage debt or his partners' investment -- was lower. Helmsley-Spear managed more than 300 properties, and Mr. Helmsley was said to have an interest in many or most.
        Sometimes the ''Helmsley position'' was 100 percent. In the hotels in particular, he held sole or principal interest. But his ownership could be 80 percent, 50 percent, 20 percent.
        Nonetheless, Mr. Helmsley did not overborrow, his associates said, and he bought to hold, not to ''flip'' to other owners. His staying power in market downturns was legendary.
        Also extraordinary was the confidence he inspired among mortgage lenders, and his capacity to attract mortgage capital from New York banks for whatever deal he considered sound. No one, it was said, could analyze a deal faster than he, or judge better than he where ''the romance'' lay in a property -- that is, how to make it pay better through more efficient operation.
        In business dealings, he had a reputation for being both tough and honest, and unwilling to budge once he had made an offer for a property. He would speak deliberately -- while calculating rapidly -- with something of the focused attention and laconic expression of a surgeon. He could be gruff.
        On one occasion in 1960, he wanted to buy a group of buildings on 14th Street. The owner had died and his estate's asking price was $9.5 million. But Mr. Helmsley called and offered $10 million. The surprised seller asked, ''Why are you offering more than the asking price?''
        That offended Mr. Helmsley. ''Don't tell me how to run my business!'' he shot back.
        With Few Exceptions, He Closed the Deal
        Mr. Helmsley tried to avoid public controversy and involvement with government, a preference not unusual among real estate figures. He did not always succeed. In trying to develop the Palace Hotel on Madison Avenue, he threatened demolition of the landmarked Villard Houses between East 50th and 51st Streets. In the 1880's, the railroad magnate Henry Villard hired the firm of McKim, Mead & White, and the houses they designed around a courtyard are among the grandest evocations of the Italian Renaissance in the city.
        A storm of protest greeted Mr. Helmsley's plan, and after lengthy negotiations he agreed to preserve the Villard Houses and its famous Gold Room. The result was a 51-story metal tower joined to part of the Villard Houses, and it opened as the Helmsley Palace to general acclaim in 1980. The hotel lost the Helmsley in its name when it was later sold to overseas interests.
        Another dispute ended less favorably from his standpoint, when he was thwarted in his effort to build luxury apartment houses on landscaped property that had been operated as a private park for Tudor City residents.
        But he was in no doubt about the formula for long-term financial success. ''I only invested in real estate, not stock,'' he once said in his deep, self-assured voice, ''and I really never sold. I worked very hard, and I bought the best properties that could be found. After all, I've been in business since 1925, so you accumulate a lot of property over 50 years.''
        His company, Helmsley-Spear Inc., usually managed the properties he bought, alone or with partners. Colleagues there would constantly bring him deals in which he would then become an investor. He was also the broker in many sales to the real estate investor and syndicator Lawrence A. Wien, who died in 1988; together they controlled the operations of several major office buildings, including the Empire State Building and One Penn Plaza.
        He had an abiding confidence that smart management and the passage of time would raise the value of his buildings. No single figure so impressed his brethren in the real estate world with his acumen, decisiveness and capacity to inspire confidence in his judgment.
        All this was shaken toward the end of his career when he and his wife were indicted on tax evasion charges, along with other senior associates, in 1988. The Helmsleys bought furnishings and decorations for their manorial home in Greenwich, Conn., and for their residence at the Park Lane, the indictment said, and then fraudulently deducted them as business expenses for the Helmsley hotel chain.
        In June, 1989, a judge found Mr. Helmsley no longer mentally competent to stand trial because of deficiencies in memory and his ability to reason. But Mrs. Helmsley was ordered to face the charges, and on Aug. 30, 1989, she was convicted of evading $1.7 million in Federal income taxes, filing false tax returns and mail fraud.
        After legal moves to avoid prison failed, she began serving a four-year prison sentence in April 1992, spending 18 months in a Federal prison in Danbury, Conn., before being transferred to a halfway house in Manhattan. She finished her sentence under curfew in the Helmsley apartment at the Park Lane.
        The Fast-Rising Son Of a Dry-Goods Man
        Mr. Helmsley may have inherited some of his entrepreneurial flair from his father, Henry Helmsley, who started a wholesale dry-goods company only to see it go under during the Depression.
        The son -- his full name was Harry Brakmann Helmsley -- was born March 4, 1909, in Manhattan. He attended Evander Childs High School and entered the real estate industry because one of his grandfathers had been a real estate man. At Dwight, Voorhis & Perry, which specialized in loft properties in the garment district, Mr. Helmsley swiftly advanced from office boy to rent collector and broker.
        As a broker, even when he had no capital to spare, he would invest in real estate by using his commission to join a group of buyers when he sold them a piece of property.
        By 1938, Mr. Helmsley was able to buy out the company, which had a staff of 20, and he changed its name to Dwight, Voorhis & Helmsley. In 1955, he achieved quick growth by buying the old real estate concern of Spear & Company, thereby adding 140 people to his staff. By 1980, Helmsley-Spear, as the merged company was known, had 450 employees.
        As his enterprises grew, Mr. Helmsley continued to put commercial considerations ahead of architectural ones. ''It is important that you have an architect that realizes you are a commercial developer, as I am,'' he said. ''In the final analysis, if the building doesn't make a profit, the architect hasn't served you.''
        Nevertheless, Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic of The New York Times, praised Mr. Helmsley after he had the Helmsley Building on Park Avenue refurbished, gilded on top and floodlighted at night.
        ''Rarely has the owner of a New York building managed, by improving his own structure, to do so much for his neighbors and for the city at large as Harry Helmsley has done here,'' Mr. Goldberger said.
        Mr. Helmsley was married in 1938 to Eve Ella Sherpick Green, a widow, and they were divorced 33 years later. In 1972, he married Leona Mindy Roberts. As Leni Roberts, she had been a model, before becoming a successful real estate saleswoman in her own right.
        Life With Leona, 'Wild About Harry'
        Mr. Helmsley was more in the public eye after his second marriage, with the use of the Helmsley name on his hotels reflecting a readiness for self-promotion.
        In addition to their Connecicut house, the Helmsleys lived for years in a duplex in the Park Lane that had two living rooms, a greenhouse and a swimming pool. Adornments included paintings by Dufy and Pissarro and numerous pieces in pink jade.
        Mr. Helmsley enjoyed going out dancing with his wife, and Leona Helmsley gave birthday celebrations for him at their duplex, calling them ''I'm Just Wild About Harry'' parties. They featured balloons bearing Mr. Helmsley's smiling portrait.
        For years Mr. Helmsley presided over his empire from a 53d floor office in midtown Manhattan garnished with models of the Empire State Building and more than 300 red loose-leaf notebooks containing reports on his far-flung interests.
        Mr. Helmsley's philosophy at Helmsley-Spear was to ''let many flowers bloom,'' and to have few rules. There was no table of organization. ''The more rules you have, the more problems you have,'' he told associates. Many of the brokers and building managers in the firm were also independent investors, normally in partnership with Mr. Helmsley.
        With Mrs. Helmsley in charge, Helmsley Enterprises began to divest itself of some nonhotel investments, including Brown, Harris, Stevens, Inc., a residential brokerage firm that he had bought in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Helmsley had no children. (''My properties are my children,'' he would say when asked if he was a father.) But the absence of any spurred speculation throughout his career over how his vast real estate assets would be disposed at his death, and there was speculation that his wife would lose control over Helmsley-Spear. The complex partnerships in his many properties forecast perhaps years of uncertainty on future management control, especially in light of the bitter rift that developed between many former partners and Mrs. Helmsley as she assumed command of his business affairs.
        Mr. Rubenstein said the funeral service would be private.
        Recalling Mr. Helmsley's eminence in the real estate world, Bernard H. Mendik, a prominent figure in that world who is chairman of a trade organization, the Real Estate Board of New York, said yesterday: ''Some years back, New York State passed a law in which all brokers had to get recertified and had to take classes. Harry was officially listed as a broker, although he was a great owner, and when they told him he had to take classes to get his licence renewed, he said, 'Who will be the teacher?' ''
        After Mr. Helmsley said that, Mr. Mendik said, ''they changed the rule.''
      