
        Frank Angelo, a co-founder of MAC Cosmetics and a leader of an effort to raise money for people with AIDS, died on Sunday at Baptist Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 49 and lived in Toronto.
        The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, a spokeswoman for MAC, Susan Elliot, said.
        Mr. Angelo was in Florida to plan  the opening of a MAC boutique in the South Beach area of Miami Beach.
        Mr. Angelo founded the company in 1985 with Frank Toskan and as marketing director was responsible for its growth and its innovative promotions, widely admired in the industry for the attention as well as the hip image they bought for the line.
        It was under his direction that MAC signed Ru Paul, the transvestite entertainer, and K. D. Lang, the singer, who is homosexual, to act as  representatives of the cosmetics line.
        Mr. Angelo founded the MAC AIDS Fund, which since its inception in 1994 has raised $5.5 million. All retail sales from MAC's Viva Glam lipstick, for which Ru Paul and Ms. Lang appear in advertisements, go to the fund.
        The company does no other advertising. Yet it has grown to be a major force as a makeup-artist brand, or a line developed by cosmeticians for models in fashion shoots or actresses in films. Department stores, whose counters had been dominated by the large cosmetics houses, have begun to add lines by MAC and other makeup artists like Bobbi Brown and Francois Nars.
        In 1994, Mr. Angelo and Mr. Toskan sold 51 percent of their business to Estee Lauder Inc., which planned  to expand its sales abroad, but the two men retained creative control. From its headquarters in Toronto, MAC runs 21 free-standing boutiques, including 2 in Manhattan, at 113 Spring Street and 14 Christopher Street, and 117 counters in North American department stores. Sales  last year were $200 million.
        Even as a child in Montreal, Mr. Angelo showed signs of becoming an entrepreneur. At 7 he showed movies to neighborhood children, and at 16 he formed a music group that toured Canada and the United States. In 1969 he moved to Toronto and opened a chain of unisex hair salons called the Hair Cutting Place. He later sold his interest in that business.
        In the early 70's, he met Mr. Toskan, a makeup artist, and started working with him to develop a line of cosmetics for fashion models. They designed the makeup to work with all skin colors and to reflect well on camera. The line became known for its extensive range of colors and for  its individual pots of color, an innovation over the usual prepackaged combinations.
        When they formed their company in 1985, it was called the Make-Up Art Companies, from which came MAC, with Mr. Toskan as creative director and Mr. Angelo as marketing director.
        The MAC AIDS Fund is administered in Toronto. Its income is mainly from the sales of Viva Glam and the sales of Helping Kids greeting cards, which are designed by children with AIDS. The fund finances AIDS education and prevention, meal delivery, emergency financial assistance and home-care services.
        Mr. Angelo is survived by his mother, Cecilia Notarangelo of Montreal; a sister, Carmen Kent of Montreal, and a brother, Nick Notarangelo of Toronto.
      