
        Gordon W. Burrows, a New York State Assemblyman for 20 years and a State Supreme Court justice for 7, died Jan. 10 at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and a lifelong resident of Yonkers.
        Mr. Burrows died of cardiac arrest, said his son, Craig A. Burrows, also of Yonkers.
        Gordon Burrows was elected in 1988 to the State Supreme Court in White Plains and served until last May, when he retired because of illness. Before his election to the bench, Mr. Burrows served for two decades in the Assembly, where his fellow Republicans elected him deputy minority leader. Because of several redrawings of legislative districts, he at one time or another represented much of southern Westchester County.
        Mr. Burrows was chairman of the Assembly's Judiciary Committee and sponsored the Equitable Distribution Act of 1980, which made sweeping changes in the state's matrimonial law. The legislation required the equitable distribution of the property of a married couple and gave financial value to the tasks of taking care of a home and rearing children.
        Mr. Burrows liked to point out that when he headed the Judiciary Committee, he opened its meetings to the press and public long before the state's so-called Sunshine Law, which he sponsored, required it.
        Before going to Albany, Mr. Burrows was elected to the Yonkers City Council and the Westchester County Board of Supervisors. His only political defeat was in 1977, when he ran  for Westchester County Executive and failed to unseat Alfred B. DelBello, a Democrat.
        Mr. Burrows graduated from Yale University and St. John's University Law School. During World War II  and the Korean War, he served with the United States Navy. For many years he was a partner in the law firm of Woodrow, Burrows & Vaccaro in Yonkers.
        Besides his son Craig, he is survived by his wife of 39 years, the former Josephine Ramirez; two other sons, Gordon A., a Yonkers Councilman, and Paul D. of Brighton, Mass.; a sister, Jean Stevens of Norwalk, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
      