
        Myfanwy Piper, an English art critic and the librettist for three of Benjamin Britten's operas, died last Saturday at Fawley Bottom, the farmhouse home near Henley, England, that was a center of artistic activity in the 1940's and 50's. She was 85.
        Ms. Piper's most enduring work is the deftly written libretto she supplied for Britten's ''Turn of the Screw'' in 1954. It was, in fact, Ms. Piper's suggestion that Britten base on opera on the Henry James novella about a governess who wrestles with a pair of ghosts she believes are corrupting the children in her care.
        Ms. Piper had known Britten since the mid-1940's, when her husband, the artist John Piper, designed the sets for several operas, including ''The Rape of Lucretia'' and ''Billy Budd.'' But when she suggested ''The Turn of the Screw'' as a subject, Ms. Piper did not expect to write the libretto herself.
        ''I think he turned to me,'' she told Britten's biographer, Humphrey Carpenter, ''because, with the 'Lucretias' and 'Herrings' and the various things which John and I had been through with Ben, he often talked to us about the words. He'd say, 'What am I to do here? I don't like this,' and I was very much aware of the kind of things he didn't like. So although I hadn't got any qualifications for writing a libretto, it didn't disturb me.''
        But Ms. Piper did, by then, have ample qualifications as a writer. Ms. Piper, whose name was originally  Mary Myfanwy (pronounced mih-VAHN-wih) Evans in London in 1911, she was educated at St. Hugh's College, Oxford, where she pursued interests in art and literature. After discovering the works of Mondrian and Kandinsky during a visit to Paris in 1934, she founded and edited Axis, an English review of abstract art that promoted the British and French avant-garde. She edited the journal from 1935 to 1937.
        It was also in 1934 that she met John Piper at a summer painting party in Suffolk. The two married in 1937 and settled at Fawley Bottom, a flint-and-brick farmhouse that quickly became the regular meeting place of a circle of artists, musicians, architects and poets, including Alexander Calder, Kenneth Clark and John Betjeman. Betjeman wrote two poems about Ms. Piper, ''Myfanwy'' and ''Myfanwy at Oxford,'' both published in 1940. Mr. Piper died in 1992.
        Besides editing Axis, Ms. Piper edited a book of essays, ''The Painter's Object,'' and wrote a biography of Frances Hodgkins for the Penguin Modern Painters series. From the late 1930's through the early 50's, she worked mainly as her husband's assistant and brought up their four children, of which one son and two daughters survive.
        There was a long hiatus between ''The Turn of the Screw'' and Ms. Piper's next libretto for Britten, but in 1968, when Britten was commissioned to write an opera for television, he settled on another Henry James story, ''Owen Wingrave,'' and revived the collaboration that had worked so well in ''The Turn of the Screw.''
        Soon after ''Owen Wingrave'' had its premiere, in 1971, Britten invited Ms. Piper to write a libretto for what would be his final opera, ''Death in Venice,'' based on the Thomas Mann novel.
        Ms. Piper also wrote a play, ''The Diary of a Seducer,'' based on Kierkegaard, as well as the librettos for Malcolm Williamson's ''Easter'' and several operas by the Welsh composer Alun Hoddinot, including ''What the Old Man Does Is Always Right,'' ''The Rajah's Diamond'' and ''The Trumpet Major.''
      