
        Burton Lane, the Broadway and Hollywood composer who wrote the melodies for ''Finian's Rainbow''  and such enduring songs as ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever,'' ''(I Like New York in June) How About You?'' and ''Too Late Now,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        A spokeswoman for the League of American Theaters and Producers said that Broadway marquees would be dimmed tonight at 8 in his memory.
        In addition to writing music, Mr. Lane worked hard to protect songwriters from piracy of their work and served in the 1950's as president of the American Guild of Authors and Composers and its predecessor organization, the Songwriters Protective Association.
        A high school dropout who began  his career in the late 1920's as a song plugger in Tin Pan Alley, Mr. Lane teamed up over the years with such lyricists as E. Y. (Yip) Harburg, Alan Jay Lerner, Ira Gershwin, Frank Loesser, Harold Adamson and Ralph Freed to become an estimable composer of quality American popular songs.
        Memorable Songs And a Leprechaun
        His tunes included those from the rich score of ''Finian's Rainbow'' -- ''How Are Things in Glocca Morra?,'' ''Ol' Devil Moon,'' ''When I'm Not Near the Girl I Love,'' ''If This Isn't Love'' and ''Look to the Rainbow'' -- as well as ''Everything I Have Is Yours,'' from the 1933 movie ''Dancing Lady,'' starring Clark Gable and Joan Crawford (and featuring Fred Astaire in his first screen role); and the score for the 1951 film ''Royal Wedding,'' starring  Astaire and Jane Powell.
        ''Royal Wedding,'' in which Mr. Lerner was the lyricist, contained several memorable songs in its score: ''Too Late Now,'' a wistful ballad sung by Miss Powell; ''Every Night at Seven,'' smoothly delivered by the urbane Astaire, and ''How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Love You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life?,'' a number that  the two stars belted out together. Mr. Lane composed that novelty tune in a 12-minute taxi-ride with Mr. Lerner.
        The movie included one of Astaire's most spectacular numbers, in which he appears to dance on the walls and ceiling. The music to which he danced was Mr. Lane's ''You're All the World to Me,'' which was successfully revived by Tony Bennett, who recorded it 45 years later.
        Although one of the most respected of American songwriters, Mr. Lane gained his reputation on a limited output of quality. He was neither as prolific as Irving Berlin, nor as versatile as Cole Porter, nor as dauntless as Richard Rodgers or George Gershwin, who were interested in the musical possibilities offered by large orchestras. Indeed, Mr. Lane almost did not write the score for ''Finian's Rainbow'' because Yip Harburg told him he wanted a score to rival ''Porgy and Bess,'' and Mr. Lane replied that he did not think he was in Mr. Gershwin's league.
        ''Finian's Rainbow,'' which opened in 1947, ran for 725 performances at the 46th Street Theater. It received wide praise for its clarion score and a book that was socially advanced for its time, constructed around a leprechaun and his pot of gold and a bigoted Senator from the South. The leprechaun, played by David Wayne, was determined to plant his gold at Fort Knox, where he was sure it would grow. All of the songs were memorable, none more so than ''Ol' Devil Moon,'' sung by Ella Logan. ''How Are Things in Glocca Morra?'' also became a hit. The music was enhanced by the imaginative choreography of Michael Kidd.
        Mr. Lane was proud of ''Finian's Rainbow,'' his finest moment in the theater. But he never forgot his  ''dry'' periods in the 1930's, when he worked for Paramount and wrote unremembered music for 30 motion pictures; a notable exception was  ''The Lady's in Love With You'' in  1938.
        A Young Gershwin As Role Model
        During the 1940's and 50's, he abandoned a number of projects that he had agreed to do. ''I'm very picky,'' he told one interviewer, explaining that he was storing up ideas ''for the right property.''
        There were also shows he wished he hadn't written. Among them was ''Carmelina'' of 1979, a joint effort  with Alan Jay Lerner that closed after only 17 performances.
        Mr. Lane was born on Feb. 2, 1912, the younger of two sons of Lazarus Levy, a successful New York real estate man, and his wife, Frances Fink Levy, an amateur pianist.  Raised on Manhattan's West Side, he attended the High School of Commerce, where he played viola and cello in the school orchestra and where his first musical compositions were marches. His mother encouraged him to learn to play the piano.
        He decided to quit high school after he got a job as a song plugger for the Remick Music Company, a venerable mainstay of Tin Pan Alley. His role model was George Gershwin, who was then an established composer although not yet 30.
        He accompanied his parents to Atlantic City for a holiday, and they stayed in a rooming house that had a serviceable piano. Young Burton would play it at every opportunity, most often so he could savor the music of Mr. Gershwin. He had worked out his own arrangement of '' 'S Wonderful,'' with flashy runs and rhythms and fat Gershwinesque chords.
        On one such day, a woman who heard him playing went to Lazarus Levy and said: ''My name is Rose Gershwin and your son sounds just like my George. In fact, from the back he even looks like my George.''
        Shortly thereafter, Burton Lane was introduced to Gershwin, who had already written the music for the shows ''Lady Be Good!'' and ''Funny Face'' as well as the Piano Concerto in F. Gershwin was then at work on a tone poem that would be called ''An American in Paris.''
        Gershwin liked the way he played '' 'S Wonderful,'' although the first time Mr. Lane did so, he was so nervous that he played much too fast. Determining that Mr. Lane had a serious ear, Gershwin decided that he should study music formally and arranged for him to meet the conductor Walter Damrosch, who occasionally took on a student.
        Damrosch listened to Mr. Lane play an assortment of selections, among them his fancy rendition of '' 'S Wonderful,'' then told him he would be willing to teach him on the condition that he ''give up playing that popular stuff.''
        But Gershwin found Damrosch's advice ridiculous, and Mr. Lane  spent two years studying with Simon Bucharoff, a pianist and composer who made no such demands.
        Mr. Lane continued the nurturing friendship with Gershwin until his mentor's death in 1937. Long afterward he would remember social occasions where they would play the piano together, counting '' 'S Wonderful'' in their repertory. ''Gershwin was my hero,'' Mr. Lane would recall in later life. ''He was so fresh and original, I'd start to tremble whenever the overture started.''
        Word got around Tin Pan Alley by the late 1920's that Mr. Lane, still a teen-ager, was someone to watch. As a result, he received an offer from Harold Stern, a representative of the impresario J. J. Shubert, to compose some songs for the ''Greenwich Village Follies'' of 1927. Mr. Lane wrote 20 songs, but the show was never produced because the intended star, James Barton, became ill and Shubert could not envision a replacement.
        Time for Hollywood And Broadway
        In 1930, when Mr. Lane was only 18, he was offered an opportunity to write music for the ninth version of ''Earl Carroll's Vanities.'' Teamed with the lyricist Harold Adamson, he wrote ''Have a Heart,'' ''Love Came Into My Heart'' and ''Heigh-ho, the Gang's All Here.'' During the early 1930's, his music was also heard in ''Three's a Crowd,'' a revue starring Fred Allen, Libby Holman and Clifton Webb, and he wrote more music for other productions, including ''The Third Little Show,'' ''Singing the Blues'' and ''Americana.''
        In 1933, Mr. Lane and Mr. Adamson signed a contract with Irving Berlin's music publishing company, which dispatched them to Hollywood for six weeks to see if they could sell a few songs to the talkies. The most conspicuous result was ''Everything I Have Is Yours,'' a tune that met with its first success in ''Dancing Lady,'' when it was nominated for an Academy Award, and years later, when it was revived by Billy Eckstein.
        In 1940 Mr. Lane was firmly ensconced in Hollywood. But he also wrote a Broadway musical, ''Hold Onto Your Hats,'' which starred Al Jolson and Martha Raye. Two of the songs made the charts: ''Walkin' Along Mindin' My Business'' and ''There's a Great Day Coming Manana.'' More success came the next year when he joined Mr. Freed in  writing ''(I Like New York in June) How About You,'' which was sung by Judy Garland in ''Babes on Broadway.'' The song, which brought Mr. Lane his second Academy Award nomination, was revived in the late 1950's by Frank Sinatra for his album ''Songs for Swingin' Lovers.''
        Following his work for ''Finian's Rainbow'' and ''Royal Wedding'' in the late 1940's and early 50's, Mr. Lane wrote more music for films that attracted little attention. Among them were the movies ''Give a Girl a Break'' (1953), starring Marge and Gower Champion, Debbie Reynolds and Bob Fosse, and ''Jupiter's Darling'' (1955), in which Esther Williams tried to seduce Hannibal so that he wouldn't attack Rome. Toward the end of the decade he worked with Dorothy Fields on a musical version of ''Junior Miss'' for television. The nonmusical version had run for a couple of years on Broadway.
        In the mid-1960's, he agreed apprehensively to work again with Mr. Lerner, his collaborator in ''Royal Wedding.'' Mr. Lane, who was self-regulating and dutiful about his work habits, was somewhat unnerved by Mr. Lerner, who worked in fits and starts and sometimes disappeared for days.
        Mr. Lerner was anxious to pursue the musical possibilities of a story  about a young woman with extrasensory perception. The result was ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever,'' which opened in October 1965 at the Mark Hellinger Theater. It was not nearly as successful as ''Finian's Rainbow'' -- critics did not like the libretto -- but the score and especially the shimmering title song received much praise. In 1970 it was made into a Hollywood musical by Vincente Minnelli, with Barbra Streisand, Yves Montand and Jack Nicholson in the cast.
        In 1968 ''Finian's Rainbow'' was made into a film in which Fred Astaire and Petula Clark played the roles made famous on Broadway by David Wayne and Ella Logan. The movie, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, received good reviews, but Mr. Lane loathed it. ''Every number begins in a field,'' he complained.
        Mr. Lane's 1935 marriage to Marion Seaman ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Lynn; a daughter from his first marriage, Diana Lane of Manhattan, and three stepdaughters, Elizabeth and Peggy Kaye of Manhattan and Hillary Kaye of Los Angeles.
        A memorial service is to be held tomorrow at 11:15 A.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, on Amsterdam Avenue between West 75th and 76th Streets in Manhattan. Among those scheduled to speak are Cy Coleman, Sheldon Harnick and Len Cariou.
        A Tough World 'For People Like Me'
        Mr. Lane was always mindful that every time he had stopped writing as a young man, it was hard to resume work. So as an old man he wrote ''just to stay in practice.'' When he was 78, he told an interviewer for The Los Angeles Times that he felt strong enough to write a musical every year.
        ''But no one's asking me,'' he said. ''I keep looking and I'm an optimist. And I keep writing even though my songs are not recorded. But it's a very tough world right now for people like me. The guys who call themselves producers these days aren't interested in what we can do.''
        His optimism was rewarded, at least in part, when the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., decided to stage a revival of ''Finian's Rainbow'' as part of its 1997 season. He attended a read-through  in November, and a spokeswoman for the Goodspeed said he was enthusiastic about the project. The revival is to begin performances on April 2, 50 years after the show opened on Broadway.
        Correction:  January 10, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about the Broadway and Hollywood composer Burton Lane misstated a plot element of his 1947 Broadway musical ''Finian's Rainbow.'' In the show, it is the title character, Finian, who buries a pot of gold, not the Leprechaun.
        The obituary also misidentified the role played by Fred Astaire in the 1968 film version. He played Finian, not the Leprechaun.
      