
        Seymour Halpern, a Queens Republican who served 14 years in the State Senate and 14 more in Congress, becoming a ranking member of the House Banking Committee before his retirement in 1973, died early yesterday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 83 and had moved to Southampton from Manhattan two months ago.
        His wife, Barbara, said he died from complications of pneumonia.
        Whether in Albany or Washington, Mr. Halpern was a man who took his legislative duties seriously. Although he was proudest of his co-sponsorship of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the original Medicare legislation in 1965, Mr. Halpern's interests on issues seemed to know no bounds.
        During his years in Albany, he served on scores of committees, and claimed sponsorship of 279 bills that became law, among them measures dealing with schools, housing, civil rights, transportation, narcotics, nutrition and mental health.
        In one of his more noteworthy forays, Mr. Halpern, generally a natty dresser, put on rumpled clothes and went unshaven to Creedmoor State Hospital posing as a patient's relative to verify reports of appalling conditions at the hospital for the mentally ill.
        In the House, Mr. Halpern's interests were also eclectic. In addition to championing headline-grabbing measures like a 1965 law to protect American businesses against an Arab boycott, he also kept a close eye on constituents' needs, no matter how small. Not one to shrink from minutiae, he once sponsored a bill intended to permit supplemental financing for co-op apartments for improvements like rewiring and plumbing. And he made frequent trips home to shore up support in his generally well-heeled district.
        One reason for his special care was that Mr. Halpern never forgot that in New York City he was something of a political anomaly, a Republican at a time when Democrats were so firmly entrenched that by the end of his political career he was the lone Republican in the city's House delegation.
        He was a distinctly liberal Republican, one who generally gained support from labor unions and endorsement from the Liberal Party. But when it was suggested that he might be more comfortable as a Democrat, Mr. Halpern bristled. His party, after all, was both a family tradition and a lifelong commitment.
        His father, Ralph, a onetime member of the State Assembly, was the perennial secretary of the Queens Republican Committee, holding the post throughout his son's political career.
        Mr. Halpern, who was born in Richmond Hill, was so indoctrinated with Republican politics as a youth that he seemed in a hurry to get into the fray.
        After a brief stay at Columbia University and a stint as a reporter for the Long Island Daily Press, he became a full-time politician at age 19, first as a campaign aide to Fiorella H. La Guardia and later as an assistant to the City Council President, Newbold Morris.
        Winning election to the State Senate at the age of 26 in 1940, he served until 1954, when he made an abortive race for Congress in the old Sixth District in Queens. Four years later, he won an open seat in the neighboring Fourth District in northeastern Queens.
        For all his detailed devotion to government and politics, Mr. Halpern found ample time for private pursuits, which included painting (several of his portraits hang in the Capitol, his wife said) and an extensive collection of autographs.
        For years a bachelor, he gained a reputation as something of a charming ladies' man, who favored fine restaurants and rarely dined alone or let anyone else pick up the check.
        As the guest speaker at a fashion show at the old Pennsylvania Hotel in 1956, Mr. Halpern took one look at the beautiful 22-year-old fashion coordinator, Barbara Olsen, and his days as a bachelor were numbered.
        The couple were married three years later, and on their honeymoon the bridegroom, ever the politician, made headlines as the first Jew since 1948 to be allowed by Arab authorities to cross the border from Israel into Jordan.
        They settled into a penthouse apartment and pursued the good life, one whose full dimensions did not become apparent until a decade later, when The Wall Street Journal disclosed that Mr. Halpern, whose salary was then $42,500, was more than $100,000 in debt, including a $40,000 unsecured loan at a highly favorable interest rate from a bank that had lobbied hard in opposition to a measure Mr. Halpern had also opposed on the House Banking Committee.
        The disclosures raised eyebrows, but Mr. Halpern did not bat an eyelash, and neither did his constituents. The next year they sent him back to Congress with 77 percent of the vote.
        Two years later, however, after reapportionment pitted him against a veteran Democrat, Representative Lester L. Wolff, Mr. Halpern decided not to seek reelection.
        ''He wanted to go out a winner,'' his wife said.
        Mr. Halpern later worked as a public relations man in Manhattan.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three nieces, Barbara Goodman and Leslie Schwartz of Manhattan and Stephanie Hecht of Teaneck, N.J.
      