
        Sadler Hayes, a music-minded insurance agent who was a mainstay of the North Carolina Society in New York City for more than 60 years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        From the time he arrived in New York from North Carolina in the early 1930's and fell in with the hard-partying, polo-playing regulars who hung out at the Squadron A Armory on East 94th Street, Mr. Hayes was the life of just about every party he ever went to.
        A self-taught musician who mastered the recorder, the guitar, the trumpet, and, more or less, the flute, Mr. Hayes, who also sang, never had to be asked twice to perform.
        If he was feeling diffident, he would arrive with his recorder stuck in the back pocket of his tuxedo. In a more expansive mood he would have his guitar slung over his shoulder. Either way, if anybody needed serenading, before the evening was over Mr. Hayes was sure to oblige, unless he was otherwise engaged, sitting in with the band.
        Although he rode well and loved horses so much that he once kept a favorite mount overnight in his East Side apartment, there was reason to believe that it was his love of music more than his devotion to the National Guard cavalry regiment that attracted Mr. Hayes to Squadron A.
        He became his troop's bugler and held the post with the squadron and its alumni social arm, the Squadron A Association, for more than 50 years.
        At the association's black-tie banquet in 1986, Mr. Hayes, who summoned the troop to dinner with a gleaming brass Wurlitzer bugle that  had been used in Cuba in the Spanish-American War, expounded on the value of the bugle for battlefield communication, recalling that ''Custer didn't have a bugler.''
        Mr. Hayes was a native of Charlotte, N.C., who was forced to drop out of the University of North Carolina in the Depression. He found an insurance job in New York. He had intended to return to North Carolina, but found he didn't have to. There were so many Tar Heels in New York, he discovered, it was possible to have a full down-home social life without leaving Manhattan.
        Joining the North Carolina Society, founded in 1897, Mr. Hayes became so active he was known as Mr. North Carolina in New York.
        In addition to offering an opportunity for compatible company (and to generate life insurance business), the association's annual banquets had a special appeal. The several hundred members included alumni of the state's various colleges, each with its own songs, so Mr. Hayes, who had learned the words to all of them, would be singing all night.
        Mr. Hayes established himself as one of the country's top life insurance salesmen. His work made him wealthy, because he was a highly gregarious salesman of considerable charm, and because he had a legion of loyal and well-heeled friends.
        In philanthropy, the Hayes version had musical overtones. Concerned with illiteracy, he had a brainstorm. Recognizing that decoding one set of symbols was very much like decoding another, he hit on teaching youngsters to read music to prepare them to read words.
        To put his ideas into practice, Mr. Hayes, a one-time director of the Third Street Music School Settlement, helped found the Diller-Quaile-Brick Church summer music program for children.
        Teaching children to read music had another appeal to Mr. Hayes. It kept the music going.
        Mr. Hayes is survived by his wife, Agnes; a daughter, Alice, of Charlotte, and a son, John, of New Hempstead, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Barnhardt of Charlotte; two brothers, Robert, of Concord, N.C., and Francis, of Charlotte, and three grandsons.
      