
        Joseph D. Noshpitz, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who explored broad influences on behavior in his clinical work, teaching and writings, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Washington. He was 74.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Claude.
        Whether examining self-destructiveness in adolescents, peer pressure or the impact of cultural phenomena like the Nancy Drew books and Teen-Age Mutant Ninja Turtles films, Dr. Noshpitz's aim was to comprehend the way children act.
        ''It's not enough to say he was interested in the child,'' said Carl Feinstein, director of psychiatry at the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore and an associate professor at Johns Hopkins Medical School. ''He was interested in the subjective experience of the child.''
        Dr. Noshpitz, who was a senior psychiatrist at Children's Hospital in Washington and a professor at George Washington University Medical School for most of the 1970's and 80's, was aided in his understanding by an ability to put his subjects at ease, often by getting down on all fours and playing with them.
        Dr. Noshpitz was born in New York City and attended the University of Louisville, graduating in 1945 with a medical degree. He received his training in child psychiatry at the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kan., and his psychoanalytic training at the Baltimore-D.C. Psychoanalytic Institute.
        Early in his career he worked with the noted researcher Fritz Redl at the National Institute of Mental Health, studying residential treatment of aggressive children. He was a longtime advocate of treatment in residential centers, said Robert A. King, an associate professor of child psychiatry at Yale who wrote a two-volume work on child development and pathology with Dr. Noshpitz.
        ''He was interested in using the entire milieu of a treatment center as a way of helping a child to grow,'' Dr. King said, ''not just squeezing or whipping a child into shape.''
        Dr. Noshpitz was a founding member of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and served as its president from 1973 to 1975. He was editor in chief of ''The Handbook of Child Psychiatry,'' the second edition of which is scheduled for publication in 1997 and 1998.
        He also had a fascination with sexual identity in girls, the so-called tomboy phenomenon, particularly from a crosscultural standpoint. For nearly two decades, Dr. Noshpitz used any chance when traveling to inquire whether boyish behavior occurred among girls in the local culture. At his death, he had amassed hundreds of pages of interviews on the subject and a list of the local term for ''tomboy'' in at least 20 languages, including Amharic, Hindi, Norwegian, Tagalog and the Quechua language of Peru (capon-huccucha, literally ''castrated mouse.'')
        In addition to his son, of Santa Cruz, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Charlotte; two sisters, Rose Bennett and Ruth Kellman, both of West Palm Beach, Fla., and a grandson.
      