
        Vero C. Wynne-Edwards, a British ethologist and naturalist whose writings on group selection in evolution became the focus of an often-acrimonious debate among theorists in the 1960's and 70's, died on Jan. 5 in a nursing home in Banchory, Scotland. He was 90.
        Professor Wynne-Edwards championed the theory that natural selection acts not only on individuals in social groups but also on each group as a whole in relation to its environment.
        After the publication in 1962 of his book ''Animal Dispersion in Relation to Social Behavior,'' which challenged accepted ideas of evolution, Professor Wynne-Edwards became a lightning rod in the debate, pitting behavioral ecologists on one side against far more numerous proponents of the theory of individual selection on the other.
        He and his supporters argued that animal populations used hormonal signals and social mechanisms like breeding territoriality, dominance hierarchies and grouping in flocks to help regulate population and avoid overuse of available resources. Those groups that were best able to self-regulate had an evolutionary advantage in the survival game, they argued.
        Critics defended the idea that natural selection operates solely on individuals within a group. They offered alternative explanations for many of the social mechanisms cited by Professor Wynne-Edwards, and their views are generally accepted today.
        Yet the debate continues in muted form. Dr. Douglas J. Futuyma, an author and professor of ecology and evolution at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, credits Professor Wynne-Edwards with forcing scientists to re-examine accepted ideas and to create better theoretical models of how individual selection works.
        ''When you make predictions from theories developed on the basis of individual selection and then go out into nature and see that indeed most often they are met,'' Dr. Futuyma said, ''it basically renders group selection superfluous.''
        But Dr. David Sloan Wilson, a biology professor at the State University of New York at Binghamton, said the idea of group selection is now widely accepted among scientists who study the evolution of disease organisms. ''Natural selection is a multilevel process,'' he said. ''The group level is not the only level, and for sure no one ever claimed that. But it's certainly a level that must be reckoned with very, very often, and so I believe the multilevel perspective is rapidly going to become the prevailing perspective.''
        Vero Copner Wynne-Edwards was born on July 4, 1906, in Leeds, England. He attended New College, Oxford, graduating with first-class honors in zoology in 1927.
        After working as a lecturer at Oxford and Bristol Universities, he was a zoology professor at McGill University in Montreal from 1930 to 1946. During that time he studied how sea bird populations are dispersed at sea.
        In 1946, he became Regius Professor of Natural History at Aberdeen University in Scotland, a post he held until his retirement in 1974. He also served as vice principal of the university in his final two years there. In retirement, he continued to write and defend the group selection concept.
        Professor Wynne-Edwards was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1970 and became a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1973. Among many professional honors, he received the Neill Prize of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1973 and the Frink Medal of the Zoological Society of London in 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeannie; a son, Hugh Robert, and a daughter, Janet Sorbie, both of Canada, and a granddaughter, Catherine Wynne-Edwards, a behavioral ecologist at Queens University in Kingston, Ontario.
      