
        Harry H. Wachtel, a Manhattan corporate lawyer who for many years acted as a confidant and legal counsel to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 79.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to a spokeswoman for Gold & Wachtel, the law firm he helped to found in 1984. At his death, he remained of counsel to the firm of about 30 lawyers specializing in domestic and international business and litigation.
        Mr. Wachtel offered his help to Dr. King after meeting him in early 1962 at a New York fund-raising luncheon. Soon after, he offered his help and, refusing pay, joined several others to establish the Ghandi Society for Human Rights as a tax-exempt fund-raising arm of Dr. King's civil rights efforts.
        In the following years, Mr. Wachtel often met with Dr. King, traveled with him and helped arrange meetings for him with American leaders and officials, including President Lyndon B. Johnson. In 1964 he and his wife were among a small group of friends and supporters who accompanied Dr. King to Norway to receive the Nobel Peace Prize.
        He also advised Dr. King in his activities, including his voter-registration campaign, his stand on nonviolence and his social policies on housing, joblessness and the like.
        Following Dr. King's assassination, Mr. Wachtel acted as a personal lawyer for Coretta Scott King. He also was vice president and counsel for the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change from 1969 to 1982, and, at various times, executive vice president and counsel for the American Foundation for Nonviolence and a trustee of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
        Mr. Wachtel received a law degree at Columbia University in 1940 and practiced in Manhattan except for  service in the Army in Europe in World War II. Before his association with Gold & Wachtel, he was a senior partner in Rubin, Wachtel, Baum & Levin.
        Apart from his work with Dr. King, he acted as counsel or as a corporate officer for the McCrory Corporation, the Rapid American Corporation, and the Lerner Stores Corporation.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Leonora Golden Wachtel; two sons, Alan B., of Scarsdale and William B., of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan M. Wachtel, also of Manhattan; a sister, Nettie Lessner of Tucson, Ariz., and six grandchildren.
      