
        Mitchell Goodman, the impassioned author who organized an antidraft protest that led to the trial of the Boston Five in 1968 and helped galvanize opposition to the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at his home in Temple, Me. He was 73.
        His wife, Sandra Gregor, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
        It was known as the Spock trial, for its most famous defendant, Dr. Benjamin Spock. And it was another well-known defendant, the Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., the Yale chaplain, who had hit on the idea that led to the trial: gathering up draft cards from young war protesters in Boston and elsewhere and turning them in to the Justice Department in Washington.
        But it was Mr. Goodman who had prodded Mr. Coffin into action. It was Mr. Goodman who spent a series of 14-hour days planning and coordinating the protest, and it was he who was aptly described by the prosecutor as ''the detail man'' of the conspiracy to ''counsel, aid and abet violations of the Selective Service law.''
        When the trial, in Federal District Court in Boston, was over, one defendant, Marcus Raskin, the co-director of the Institute for Policy Studies, was acquitted. The four others, including Mr. Goodman and Michael Ferber, a 23-year-old Harvard graduate student, were found guilty of conspiracy and sentenced to two years in prison.
        The convictions were overturned, and charges against Dr. Spock and Mr. Ferber were dismissed, but the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in Boston, ruled that while the judge had erred in his instructions to the jury, the evidence against Mr. Coffin and Mr. Goodman was so strong that they could be tried again.
        Not surprisingly, the prosecution was not renewed. The first trial had come close enough to creating antiwar martyrs, and any notion that convictions would suppress opposition to the war was quickly dispelled. Immediately after sentencing, the four convicted men left the courtroom to join a protest march.
        Mr. Goodman, who was born in Brooklyn, spent two years as an artillery officer in World War II. After graduating from Harvard in 1946, he began his studies for a doctorate in labor economics.
        Expecting to take his orals in the fall of 1947, he spent the summer in Europe, but after meeting a young English poet, Denise Leverton, at a youth hostel in Geneva, he was so smitten his career and life plans changed.
        The couple were married that December, and Mr. Goodman became a writer, turning out dozens of travel articles for The New York Times and national magazines in the 1950's and 60's. Eventually, he became an itinerant writing teacher at a series of colleges, including City College, Hofstra, Berkeley, Stanford and the University of Maine.
        In 1961 he published a novel, ''The End of It,'' which provided such a horrifyingly vivid account of an American artillery battalion's advance through northern Italy in World War II that it seemed startling that the author, who suffered from asthma, had not served overseas in the war. Considered a classic antiwar novel by some critics, it has been reissued twice.
        Although he had a finely tuned sense of justice and was attracted to liberal causes, Mr. Goodman was essentially apolitical, so much so that when his wife told him that she was going to work against the war in Vietnam, he wished her well but said he would stick to his writing.
        But by the time Miss Leverton had collected signatures from hundreds of artists and writers for an antiwar advertisement that appeared in The New York Times in April 1965, Mr. Goodman had been drawn in.
        Over the next two years he became a powerful force in the antiwar movement. In March 1967, for example, when Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey addressed the National Book Award ceremonies in Philharmonic Hall, now Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, Mr. Goodman led 50 people in a walkout, shouting, ''Mr. Vice President, we are burning children in Vietnam, and you and we are responsible!''
        Increasingly impressed by youthful protesters, Mr. Goodman made headlines when he organized a veterans' protest march down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan and again when the veterans burned their discharge papers in Union Square.
        By contrast, the protest at the Justice Department on Oct. 16, 1967, was virtually ignored by the news media. But the trial of the Boston Five in 1968 made Mr. Goodman and his co-defendants heroes in the antiwar movement and spurred mass protest rallies across the country.
        Mr. Goodman, who continued his antiwar activities even as his marriage disintegrated, was occupying the Chair of Ideas at Mankato State University in Minnesota in 1973 when he fell in love again, this time with a  22-year-old student.
        By the time they were married in 1980 Mr. Goodman had settled in Maine, begun writing poetry and found new causes, supporting unionized strikers and opposing nuclear power and nuclear weapons.
        Besides his wife he is survived by a son from his first marriage, Nikolai, of Seattle; another son, Matthew, of Temple, and a brother, Howard, of St. Louis.
      