
        Marx Leva, a Washington lawyer who framed much of the legislation that unified the United States' armed services after World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        A top legal counsel in the Department of the Navy in the immediate postwar era, Mr. Leva was a special assistant to James V. Forrestal, the  Secretary of the Navy and a leading proponent of the merger of the armed forces.
        As Secretary Forrestal's assistant, Mr. Leva helped draft the National Security Act of 1947, which melded the War Department and the Department of the Navy into something first called the National Military Establishment. With Mr. Forrestal in charge, Mr. Leva went back to work on the amendments that fine-tuned the act in 1949 and created the Department of Defense.
        Mr. Forrestal became the first Secretary of Defense and was given authority over the military in its entirety. He also oversaw the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a newly created agency consisting of a uniformed chairman, the uniformed heads of the three main services, plus the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
        Mr. Leva also fielded suggestions and comment pouring in from all sides and guided the course of the huge bill on Capitol Hill. He received President Harry S. Truman's praise for having developed the ''single legislative program.''
        Mr. Forrestal resigned in 1949, but Mr. Leva stayed on as Assistant Secretary in charge of legal and legislative affairs into the tenure of Secretary George C. Marshall. He resigned in April 1951 and practiced law in Washington until 1990 as a partner in what eventually became Leva, Hawes, Mason & Martin.
        Most recently he was in the firm Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi. He specialized in appellate litigation and government contracts law.
        A native of Selma, Ala., Mr. Leva graduated from the University of Alabama in 1937. He earned a law degree three years later at Harvard University.
        His survivors include his wife of 54 years, Dr. Shirley Pearlman Leva; a daughter, Lloyd L. Plaine, of Bethesda, and a sister, Isabelle L. Sterne, of Birmingham, Ala.
      