
        Sanford Meisner, one of the most influential American acting teachers of this century and for decades the director of the celebrated Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theater in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 91.
        Mr. Meisner, an unassuming but charismatic man who began his career as an actor and occasionally undertook directing, was one of a handful of master drama instructors. He exhorted several generations of students to be truthful, spontaneous and emotionally credible and to act with other actors, not against them. His students included Gregory Peck, Joanne Woodward, Diane Keaton, Jon Voight, Robert Duvall, Grace Kelly and Tony Randall. He also taught such directors as Sidney Lumet, Sydney Pollack and Vivian Matalon and the playwright David Mamet.
        A 1985 documentary film about Mr. Meisner's shaping of actors was aptly titled ''The Theater's Best-Kept Secret'' because people outside the Neighborhood Playhouse School were unlikely to know the name of the publicity-shy instructor, despite the fame of his proteges. The Neighborhood Playhouse is still in operation, along with the Meisner/Carville School of Acting (his companion, James Carville was the co-founder) and the Sanford Meisner Center for the Arts, both in North Hollywood.
        Like the other expert teachers of his era -- Lee Strasberg, Stella Adler and Robert Lewis -- Mr. Meisner was an original member of the Group Theater of the 1930's, an ensemble of idealistic and passionate people with little money whose principles and techniques are still an influential force in American drama.
        The Depression-era ensemble, which was formed in emulation of the Moscow Art Theater and dedicated to Konstantin Stanislavsky's acting method of ''emotional memory,'' produced nearly two dozen socially relevant dramas on Broadway by such aspiring playwrights as Clifford Odets, Sidney Kingsley and William Saroyan. For Mr. Meisner, who performed in many of the plays, including all those by Odets, acting was ''the ability to live truthfully under imaginary circumstances.''
        Sharing a stage convincingly with other actors, he stressed, is just as important as creating a character. ''It's a very bitter pill for the actor to swallow,'' he once said, to be told that another actor ''is more important than you are, but you have to believe this.''
        In 1933, he became disillusioned with Method acting, and wrote, ''Actors are not guinea pigs to be manipulated, dissected, let alone in a purely negative way. Our approach was not organic, that is to say, not healthy.'' He decided that American actors needed ''an American approach.'' He began teaching at the Neighborhood Playhouse in 1935 and the next year took over as its head.
        His classroom, in the brownstone that houses the playhouse's school on 54th Street off First Avenue, was peppered with signs advising students to ''Act Before You Think'' and remember that ''An Ounce of Behavior Is Worth a Pound of Words.'' He continued to teach spiritedly into his 80's despite his need for thick eyeglasses after cataracts were removed and for a microphone-headset to amplify a voice reconstructed after a laryngectomy.
        He guided students, usually in pairs, through improvisational exercises. He said in an interview in 1985 that these were aimed at ''introducing you to a way of making yourself one with the text and getting you to work off of the other fellow.'' Mr. Meisner made only occasional comments during exercises, appearing to be concentrating totally.
        After an exercise he would tell two students that they had not sufficiently played off each other and reacted truthfully. Acting is based on instinct and intuition, he told the class, and ''the emotional rhythm that goes on inside the actor is the least controllable part of any performance, but it must be present in the right proportion if the scene is to work.''
        Mr. Meisner's dedication was mentioned by some of his former students, including Mr. Mamet and the actors Peter Falk and Lee Grant, in the 1985 documentary. ''Meisner is one of the first authentic people most of us had ever met,'' Mr. Mamet said. ''We knew we were being exposed to the truth.'' Mr. Falk said: ''When I was young I was looking for role models I could respect. He gave me that.'' Ms. Grant recalled, ''In the classroom, the acting teacher is God, but Meisner sets you free, like a good parent.''
        Sanford Meisner was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 31, 1905, into the middle-class family of Herman Meisner and the former Bertha Knoepfler. He graduated from Erasmus Hall High School, the Damrosch Conservatory of Music (now the Juilliard School) and the Theater Guild School of Acting.
        He made his Broadway acting debut in 1924 as a farmhand in a Sidney Howard drama, ''They Knew What They Wanted.'' For the Group Theater, he performed more than a dozen roles and occasionally directed. In 1935, he was the co-director of ''Waiting for Lefty'' with Odets. Reviewers called his work ''passionate,'' ''excellent'' or ''extraordinary.''
        In later years, Mr. Meisner acted occasionally and also won plaudits for directing a 1955 revival of William Saroyan's ''Time of Your Life,'' but he concentrated on teaching, as the director of the Neighborhood Playhouse school from 1936 until 1959 and from 1964 through the 1980's.
        From 1959 to 1964 he directed a new-talent division at 20th Century-Fox in Hollywood and headed the drama department at the American Musical Theater Academy in Manhattan. While at Fox, he won reviewers' praise for playing an oily prosecutor in a 1960 Odets courtroom melodrama, ''The Story on Page One,'' and as a scheming psychiatrist in the 1962 filming of F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Tender Is the Night.''
        In 1987, Vintage Books published ''Sanford Meisner on Acting,'' which he wrote with Dennis Longwell. It offered this advice: ''You don't have to play at being the character; it's right there in your doing it,'' and ''It's all right to be wrong, but it's not all right not to try.''
        Mr. Meisner received commendations from Presidents Clinton, Bush and Reagan. His honors included a 1986 Mayor's Award for contributions to New York City's cultural life. He was a skilled pianist, who was often called on by friends and associates to buoy their spirits when productions were stymied or reviews were negative.
        His marriages to Peggy Meyer, an actress, and to Betty Gooch ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, Julian Martin, and Mr. Carville, his companion, both of Sherman Oaks; and his brother, Robert, of Clayton, N.J.
        Eight years ago, Mr. Meisner moved to California and divided his time between his homes in Sherman Oaks and on the island of Bequia in the Grenadines in Caribbean. He retired from teaching in 1994. Although he was confined to a wheelchair, he continued to attend meetings and performances at his school.
        In February 1995, at the age of 89, he gave his last performance as a patient in an episode of the television series ''E.R.'' Steven Spielberg wrote, ''It's a pleasure to see that after so many years of teaching acting, the teacher finally gets to show the students that he's the best.''
      