
        Robert Kenneth Straus, a member of one of New York's leading merchant families who turned instead to government service, publishing and, most recently, founded a center for the support of analytical thought in decision-making, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. A former resident of New York and San Francisco, he was 91 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        While he was in California, Mr. Straus kept in touch with his New York roots as founder and continuing champion of the Barbara and Robert K. Straus Thinking and Learning Center on the Manhattan campus of Pace University. The idea for it grew from his interest in the teachings of Alfred Korzybski, the Polish-born scholar and fountainhead of general semantics.
        The center opened in 1985, with Dr. Rachel M. Lauer, Pace professor of psychology and former chief psychologist of New York City schools, as director.
        Mr. Straus tried to bring general semantics -- which involves the study of the ways in which people use and react to language -- into the curriculum at Pace University as a decision-making tool.
        Mr. Straus was a mainstay and past officer of the Institute of General Semantics, now located in Englewood, N.J.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Straus was a son of Jesse Isador Straus, who was president of R. H. Macy & Company and an Ambassador to France. His grandfather Isador Straus, a company founder, died  when the Titanic sank on the liner's maiden voyage in 1912.
        Robert Straus graduated in 1927 from Harvard College, where he majored in government and economics. He continued his studies in Cambridge, England; Paris, and Geneva and returned to Harvard to earn an M.B.A. in 1931. Together with his brother Jack Isador, another longtime chief executive of Macy's, he endowed a chair at the Harvard Business School in memory of their father.
        He went to work for Franklin D. Roosevelt when Roosevelt was Governor of New York and also worked for him when he became President, serving in the New Deal's National Recovery Administration. In 1936 he began two terms as a Fusion-ticket member of the New York City Council.
        As a United States Army officer in World War II, Mr. Straus worked at the Pentagon and was a government affairs specialist at the Allied forces' headquarters in England. Having worked as a magazine publishing executive before the war, he returned to the field once back in New York.
        In 1958 he moved his family to San Francisco, where he bought a small newspaper, the San Fernando Valley Sun. From that developed a stake in a new venture he founded in 1961, Sun Litho Inc.
        He and his partners built the company into a large commercial printer, one of the first in California to use phototypesetting and web offset printing to produce catalogues and other business materials. They sold Sun Litho in 1980.
        Robert Straus is survived by his wife of 50 years, Barbara Flower Straus; a daughter, Penelope More of Olema, Calif.; a son, Christopher, of Santa Barbara; a stepson, Simon Flower of Kingston, England, and two grandchildren.
      