
        Howard W. McCall Jr., a former president of Chemical Bank and its parent, the Chemical Banking Corporation, died at his home in Darien, Conn., on Monday after a long illness, said Kenneth Herz, a spokesman for his former employer. He was 89.
        Mr. McCall joined Chemical Bank as a note teller in 1928 after graduating from the University of Virginia.
        In a career that spanned the next 45 years, he developed a reputation as a credit specialist, and won recognition within the bank for his leadership role in financing the natural gas industry in the United States in the immediate postwar period.
        His efforts did not go unrecognized, and he rose steadily through the organization. In 1955 he was named executive vice president. In 1960, he was named first vice president and a director. He was named vice chairman a year later. He became president in 1966, a post he held until he retired in 1972. He remained a director at Chemical until March 1973. Last year Chemical merged with Chase.
        ''He was a smart and creative guy, and a great mentor to me,'' said Walter V. Shipley, the current chairman of Chase. ''In a period of relatively uncomplicated banking, he had client relationships that were as extensive as anybody's.''
        In addition to his work at Chemical, Mr. McCall was active in a number of charitable and business organizations, and served as a board member of many corporations.
        His philanthropic work included service as a member of the University of Virginia's Board of Visitors, as a life trustee of the New York University Medical Center and as a member of the New York Advisory Board of the Salvation Army.
        His corporate board memberships included Liggett & Myers and Texaco.
        Mr. McCall is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Jane Ewart; a son, Howard W. McCall 3d of Darien and New York City; two daughters, Nancy M. Watson of New Canaan, Conn., and Jane M. Politi of New York City, and four grandchildren.
      