
        Andrei Sinyavsky, a Russian dissident and writer whose imprisonment in the 1960's marked the end of the more liberal period after Stalin's death, died today at his home in the Paris suburb of Fontenay-aux-Roses. He was 71 and emigrated to France in 1973.
        The cause was cancer, his son, Iegor, said.
        Mr. Sinyavsky's name first became known in the West in 1965 when he was arrested and tried alongside Yuli M. Daniel, another writer, for publishing ''anti-Soviet'' works. He spent six years in a Soviet prison camp near the small town of Potma, 300 miles east of Moscow.
        The trial set the stage for fresh dissidence by writers and intellectuals, notably Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn in the 1970's and Andrei D. Sakharov in the 1980's.
        Before his trial, Mr. Sinyavsky had already been published in France in the late 1950's and early 1960's under the pseudonym Abram Tertz. It was when the Soviet authorities linked  Tertz's satirical novels and short stories to Mr. Sinyavsky that he was arrested. His best-known books -- ''A Voice From the Chorus'' and ''Goodnight!'' -- were nonetheless published during his long exile.
        Born in Moscow on Oct. 8, 1925, Mr. Sinyavsky fought in the Red Army in World War II before completing his literary studies with a dissertation on the Russian novelist Maxim Gorky.
        The arrest of Mr. Sinyavsky's father in 1951 left him disillusioned with the Soviet system and prompted him to start writing novels. He lost his job as a professor at the Philology Institute in Moscow in 1958 after he publicly defended Boris Pasternak, but he continued teaching at the World Literature Institute of the Academy of Sciences.
        In Moscow he published literary criticism in the review Novy Mir, but he chose to send his fiction -- notably ''The Renters'' (1959) and ''Lyubimov'' (1962) -- for publication abroad under Tertz's name.
        ''Abram Tertz was the dissident, not me,'' Mr. Sinyavsky recalled in an interview in 1989. ''I was a liberal man of letters with a few relatively small complications in my professional life.''
        In one essay published abroad, he spoke of the dangers of not writing according to Government rules. ''Literature has become a forbidden and perilous terrain which makes it that much more attractive, a sort of doubled-edged game or adventure that in itself embodies the intrigue of a fascinating novel.''
        This game ended with his arrest in September 1965 and his sentencing to a labor camp. After his release in June 1971 he was unable to find work, still haunted by his pseudonym.
        ''After I was freed, Tertz continued to write and I concluded that I couldn't just kill him off,'' Mr. Sinyavsky explained. ''So I had the choice of going abroad or ending up in a labor camp again.''
        He said the Soviet authorities were eager for him to leave, but were unsure how to arrange this: while Tertz was a Jewish pseudonym and Jews were being allowed to emigrate, Mr. Sinyavsky was not Jewish.
        ''Eventually, they encouraged me to accept an invitation to lecture at the Sorbonne,'' he said. He left Moscow with his wife, Mariya Rozanova Sinyavsky, and Iegor, their only child, in 1973.
        ''When I left, I left forever,'' he said years later. ''Anyway, for a writer, what is important is not where his body is but where his soul is.''
        ''A Voice From the Chorus,'' a collection of philosophical and literary meditations that took the form of prison camp letters to his wife, was published soon afterward in France and in 1976 in the United States. Reviewing the book in the The New York Times Book Review, Jan Kott said it read ''like a thousand novels woven into one.''
        Both this book and ''Goodnight!'' -- his autobiographical novel published in France in 1984 and in the United States in 1989 -- were signed ''Abram Tertz (Andrei Sinyavsky)'' because of their powerful political content.
        Other books published in Europe but not yet in the United States carried his real name, among them ''Soviet Civilization'' and ''Ivan the Simpleton,'' a study of the role of the village idiot in Russian folklore.
        While in exile, Mr. Sinyavsky taught Russian literature at the University of Paris and, with his wife, edited a literary review called Syntaksis.
        He returned to Moscow for a visit in December 1988, but even after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 he had no desire to leave France.
        In an article in a British newspaper in 1993, Mr. Sinyavsky expressed his dismay at the economic hardship and corruption in Russia. He also complained that, instead of opposing President Boris N. Yeltsin, ''my fellow Russian intellectuals have welcomed the appointment of a strong leader and again call for strong measures to be taken.''
        He added pessimistically: ''We have seen all this before. That was how Soviet rule began.''
      