
        David A. McCann, a former publisher of Town & Country and Connoisseur magazines who was an expert at appealing to advertisers who wanted to appeal to the rich, died last  Friday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 67.
        Mr. McCann, who lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I., and Jupiter, died of a stroke, a son, Peter, said.
        Mr. McCann, a native New Yorker who grew up in the Chelsea section of  Manhattan, joined Hearst Magazines in 1951, shortly after his graduation from St. John's College in Brooklyn. He began on the research staff at  Puck -- The Comic Weekly, and later moved through increasingly senior positions at Good Housekeeping before he took over as publisher at Town & Country in 1977.
        In his six years at Town & Country,  Mr. McCann worked closely with the editorial side to broaden his magazine's appeal beyond a narrow band of readers with old money and old habits, and to appeal to the successful baby boomers who were then beginning to move into middle age.
        ''This magazine used to be for dowagers and debutantes and was generally irrelevant,'' Mr. McCann said in 1982. ''A service magazine talks to people as if they were really human beings.'' Mr. McCann saw that well-to-do new readers could be attracted to the magazine's show of wealth and elegant life styles so long as it also included useful information, and so, with Frank Zachary, a Town & Country editor, the magazine adopted a new emphasis on service journalism about education, homes, health issues and so on.
        Mr. McCann also discarded Town & Country's traditional subscription mailing, which had printing to resemble an engraved wedding invitation, and substituted a colorful brochure that helped raise circulation at the magazine from 150,000 when he took over to about 400,000 on his retirement in 1983.
        He also took pains not to lose the small advertisers of jewelry, perfumes and fine clothes that had been Town & Country's mainstay, and he kept the magazine's image distinctly top hat. ''Town & Country -- Where the Rich Are Enriched'' was the slogan for the magazine's first campaign aimed directly at advertisers, undertaken by Mr. McCann.
        ''He was the kind of publisher who respected the boundaries between his job and my job,'' Mr. Zachary, who now has the title editor emeritus of Town & Country, said this week. ''You know that so often you get an adversarial relationship between the publisher, who is interested in advertising, and the editor, who is interested in content. But David was the kind of publisher that an editor could cherish, because he never tried to force his advertising priorities on his editors.''
        After his years at Town & Country, Mr. McCann took over Connoisseur, another magazine for the well-off, and then later returned briefly to Town & Country. He retired in 1993 to his winter home in Jupiter.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Carol Gerard; a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; two sons, Peter, of Manhattan, and Anthony, of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      