
        Chico Science, a songwriter and band leader who was widely hailed as the future of Brazilian music, died on Sunday after a car accident near the northeastern city of Recife, where he lived. He was 30.
        A local fire department spokesman said he died of injuries he received when his car was hit by another vehicle, which did not stop .
        Chico Science was a prime mover in a Brazilian artistic movement called ''mangue,'' for the mangrove swamps on which Recife, a poor city in the state of Pernambuco, is built. In the ''mangrove manifesto'' he wrote in 1991 with a fellow rocker from Recife, Fred Zero Quatro of the group Mundo Livre S.A. (Free World), he presented the swamp as a symbol of disorder and fecundity, with new life rising from the mess; he and his fellow artists were to be like crabs scuttling in the mud. The mangue movement made Recife a new center for Brazilian rock in the 1990's while inspiring regional rock scenes across the country.
        With his band, Nacao Zumbi (Zumbi Nation, named after a 17th-century runaway slave leader), Chico Science created ''mangue beat,'' melding the booming rhythm of Afro-Brazilian maracatu drums with other northeastern Brazilian styles and with international influences like funk, hard rock, rap and reggae.
        The lyrics merged political protest with visionary imagery, and Chico Science performed them with savvy exuberance, mixing break-dance moves with the Brazilian ciranda, wearing a traditional fisherman's straw hat and a rocker's sunglasses. He sang about having ''Pernambuco under my feet and my mind in the infinity.'' It was the most far-reaching Brazilian rock in a generation, since the emergence of the tropicalist movement (dominated by Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil) of the late 1960's.
        Born Fernando de Assis Franca, he grew up in Recife and absorbed local traditions along with funk, reggae and hip-hop. In 1984, he joined a local gang, Legiao Hip-Hop, which included rappers and break-dancers. Three years later he began playing in bands including Orla Orbe and Loustal. He had a job as a civil servant, working with computers.
        In 1991 he formed a new band, first called Lamento Negro and then Nacao Zumbi, with five traditional drummers alongside rock instruments. Its reputation and the ideas in the mangrove manifesto spread quickly, and in 1992 the band began recording its first album, ''Da Lama Ao Caos'' (''From Mud to Chaos'') for Sony Music Brasil.
        The album, released in 1994, was embraced in Brazil and internationally, and the band performed in Europe, including the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland. He toured Europe again after the 1995 release of ''Afrociberdelia'' (Chaos/Sony), and performed with Mr. Gil at a Central Park Summerstage concert. He returned to New York City for a Brazilian Music Festival concert last year.
        He had been scheduled to appear this weekend at carnival in Pernambuco, where other performers now plan to pay homage to him. The state Governor declared three days of mourning, Reuters reported.
        He is survived by his parents and by a daughter.
      