
        Alphonse Marie Nkubito, a former Justice Minister of Rwanda and an outspoken voice for human rights and the rule of law, died on Feb. 13 at his home in the capital city of Kigali. He was 42.
        According reports from Rwanda radio, Mr. Nkubito, the founding president of the Rwandan Association for the Defense of Human Rights, died of unspecified natural causes.
        Mr. Nkubito, who had survived two assassination attempts, began the process of rebuilding Rwanda's shattered justice system after four months of genocidal slaughter in 1994.
        For Mr. Nkubito, a moderate Hutu who served as Justice Minister under the insurgent Tutsi Government from July 1994 to August 1995, the task of prosecuting more than 50,000 Hutu militants accused of killing as many as one million of the minority Tutsi was an opportunity as well as a  challenge. He saw it as a chance to use the ideals of law and justice to bridge the country's ethnic hatreds and break the cycle of rampage and revenge that had plagued Rwanda since he was a child.
        Born into a Hutu peasant family in 1954 in the waning days of an ancient Tutsi monarchy that had ruled under Belgian supervision since 1916, Mr. Nkubito was 5 years old when a Hutu uprising killed tens of thousands of Tutsi and drove half the Tutsi population into exile, primarily in neighboring Uganda.
        There, as Hutu in Rwanda consolidated their power under the dictatorship of Maj. Gen. Juvenal Habyarimana, the Tutsi, whose cattle-raising ancestors had subjugated the pastoral Hutu centuries earlier, proceeded to build an army. Many of the well-drilled, well-equipped soldiers who began raiding Rwanda in 1990 and conquered the country in 1994 were the children of the exiles of the 1950's.
        A promising student in secondary school, Mr. Nkubito was admitted to the new University of Rwanda School of Law, graduating with its second class, in 1978, after submitting a prescient dissertation on ''Homicide and Its Repression in Rwanda.''
        Mr. Nkubito, who went to work for the Justice Ministry and rose to become chief prosecutor for the Court of Appeals in Kigali, became so uneasy with the routine abuses of justice he witnessed that in September 1990 he helped found the human rights defense association.
        The next month, when Rwanda was invaded by Tutsi exiles from Uganda, and the Government jailed without charge 10,000 suspected rebel sympathizers, Mr. Nkubito used his authority to free hundreds of them before the Government intervened and transferred him to a provincial court.
        Undaunted, Mr. Nkubito, whose action had made him a hero to some in Rwanda, toured the country preaching reconciliation while accusing the Government of corruption and of crippling the justice system.
        After General Habyarimana grudgingly accepted a constitution providing for a multiparty system in 1991, Mr. Nkubito returned to his post in Kigali. But as fighting between Government forces and the Rwandan Liberation Front ebbed and surged over the next two years, Mr. Nkubito became an increasing irritant, so much so that in November 1993 he was seriously wounded in a grenade attack on his car by what his supporters describe as a Government assassination squad.
        Five months later, when the death of General Habyarimana, whose plane was shot down under mysterious circumstances on April 6, 1994, set off a well-planned, highly coordinated attack on the Tutsi minority and others by the Rwandan military, Mr. Nkubito was tipped off that a death squad was on its way to kill him. He escaped once again, eventually making his way to Belgium.
        When he accepted the position as Justice Minister after the Tutsi takeover in July, Mr. Nkubito did not alter his stance. He repeatedly denounced Government abuses and insisted on a full measure of due process for the thousands of Hutu detainees, many of them jailed on the strength of unsubstantiated denunciations by personal enemies.
        His scrupulous approach was used against him in October 1995, when he was ousted, ostensibly for dragging his feet in bringing the accused to trial. According to his friends, he was actually removed because he had sharply objected during a raucous Cabinet meeting to Government-sanctioned killings.
        After his dismissal, Mr. Nkubito became a director of the Bank of Kigali, but devoted much of his energies to investigating human rights abuses.
        Mr. Nkubito's small house in Kigali was often crowded with visitors seeking his advice on personal problems. Friends recalled that he paid no heed to those who urged him to leave the country for his own safety.  He recently told a friend that he never went to bed at night expecting to see the day and never got up in the morning expecting to live to nightfall.
        Mr. Nkubito was found dead in his bed by a member of his household staff. He was overweight and suffered from hypertension and diabetes.
        Mr. Nkubito, whose wife and their three children died of illnesses several years ago, is survived by a son, Theophili, from a previous relationship.
      