
        Deng Xiaoping, one of the founding revolutionaries of Communist China and the architect of economic modernizations that transformed the world's most populous nation, died Wednesday night in Beijing. He was 92.
        The official New China News Agency reported that Mr. Deng, who for the last 18 years was referred to as the paramount leader, died at 9:08 P.M., Beijing time (8:08 A.M Eastern standard time). He suffered from Parkinson's disease, the agency said, and died from ''complications of lung infections.''
        As the sun rose on Beijing this chilly morning, many residents learned the news on radio and television broadcasts before they set off for work and school, and the reaction of those on the street at dawn was restrained and, in some cases, nonchalant. It is part of Mr. Deng's legacy that ordinary people no longer hang on daily reminders of their leaders' every pronouncement.
        Mr. Deng leaves behind his designated successor, Jiang Zemin, 70, China's President and general secretary of the Communist Party. He was chosen by Mr. Deng and other senior leaders in late June 1989, in the weeks after the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators near Tiananmen Square, one of the darkest episodes of Mr. Deng's legacy, and yet one in keeping with his deep-seated reliance on authoritarian measures.
        Early today, Mr. Jiang was quickly named chairman of a funeral committee, made up of 459 leaders of China's Government, evidently formed long in advance of last night's news. No announcement was made about the timing or scope of a funeral.
        A wily pragmatist, Mr. Deng led China to economic growth few Chinese had dreamed of, making the country much less prone to unrest than it might have been if Mr. Deng had died a few years earlier.
        An unyielding authoritarian, he left behind a Communist Party that still has absolute political authority and crushes all dissent, even though its ideology has lost its legitimacy with most Chinese.
        While many Chinese were prepared to some degree for Mr. Deng's death, it still leaves a void.
        ''I think for the steady development of our nation we can't be without him,'' said Yang Xiaoping, 39, a hotel attendant who was heading off to work in the early morning hours here. ''I am not totally shocked. In earlier years when Mao died, we all thought it impossible, and were shocked, and could not accept it.''
        Others were divided over the  changes Mr. Deng helped unleash.
        ''In the past everyone was equal, '' said Gao Yilun, a 64-year-old retired worker who repairs bicycles by the road. ''Now even college graduates can't get a job.'' But he added, almost reflexively, ''It is not for us little people to talk about.''
        Mr. Deng was the last of a generation of leaders who shared the hardships of forging a revolution, proclaimed the People's Republic of China in 1949, and presided over decades of drastic political upheaval.
        The convulsions culminated in the Cultural Revolution, a movement that was initially endorsed by Mr. Deng but then toppled him as one of its chief victims. Only after he survived his political exile and brought the ideas of the market to a China founded on rejecting them did his policies help bring China a measure of prosperity and stability.
        A charismatic, chain-smoking man who stood barely 5 feet tall, Mr. Deng was known for a personality as peppery as the cuisine of his native Sichuan province, and was given to punchy political pronouncements, like his well-known maxim for pragmatic economics: ''It doesn't matter whether a cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice.''
        Mr. Deng formally retired from his last important post, chairman of China's central military commission, in 1989. Yet he continued to wield immeasurable influence, reserving final say in all important political matters for several years afterward, and finally relinquishing power only as he grew frail and disoriented.
        In his final public appearance in February 1994, Mr. Deng was visibly weak, walking only with assistance and badly hard of hearing. Since then, while outsiders speculated about his steadily deteriorating health, Mr. Deng's slow retreat from political power allowed his successors to achieve an almost seamless transition.
        Mr. Jiang, first seen as a transitional figure when he was named as Mr. Deng's heir apparent in 1989, has steadily asserted his authority in recent years, consolidating his influence over the military and China's enormous political bureaucracy.
        Although Chinese long feared that Mr. Deng's death would leave the country prone to political chaos or even civil war, those worries receded noticeably in recent years. Mr. Deng's gradual disappearance, coupled with steadily growing standards of living, seem to have lulled ordinary people and Beijing's political elite into the belief that China's leadership would proceed without a major change in direction.
        Yet the danger of unrest always lurks at times of transition in China. It was the death of a lesser senior leader of China in April 1989, the former Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang that unleashed vast demonstrations for a more open and accountable political system, as pro-democracy students used Mr. Hu's memorial services as an opening to air their grievances.
        Extraordinary political circumstances -- a gaping split between Mr. Deng and the the party chief at the time, Zhao Ziyang, once Mr. Deng's expected successor -- allowed the demonstrations to swell. The crackdown that left hundreds dead on the streets and tarnished the image of China and Mr. Deng followed on June 4, 1989.
        This year, public expressions of grief for Mr. Deng are likely to be closely guarded, and any attempt to organize independent memorial services is likely to be suppressed with force, if necessary.
        Mr. Deng's death also comes at a political moment strikingly different from that of September 1976, when Mao Zedong died at the age of 82. At that time, there was a sharp division between political radicals led by Mao's widow, Jiang Qing, and moderates, led by Mr. Deng.
        Mr. Deng was not able to seize power right away, though, and Mao was replaced by Hua Guofeng, a middle-of-the-road compromiser, who was eventually edged aside by Mr. Deng in December 1978.
        While once analysts thought that the same disorder and jockeying for power that followed Mao's death would occur after Mr. Deng died, Mr. Deng's long illness gave Mr. Jiang time to establish himself.
        ''The transition has been in place probably for three years,'' said James Lilley, a former United States Ambassador to China. ''Jiang Zemin is a Deng selection.''
        One of Mr. Deng's great achievements was to open China to the outside world, encouraging young Chinese to study overseas, urging foreign businesses to invest in China, and insuring that China joined the international community.
        Mr. Deng oversaw the negotiations that led Britain to agree in 1984 to return its colony of Hong Kong to the sovereignty of China on July 1, 1997, and took many opportunities to proclaim that ''one country, two systems'' would guide a hands-off approach that would allow Hong Kong to preserve its capitalist economic system.
        Mr. Deng often expressed his determination to visit Hong Kong for the handover, when meeting with visiting foreign leaders, some of whom were unsure whether to take him seriously. Not everyone expected him to live until 1997, and his death comes a little more than four months before one of the last colonies is handed back to China, an event that symbolized China's triumph over the humiliations that helped unleash the revolution Mr. Deng helped incite.
        Mr. Deng's death comes at the beginning of a year of great political sensitivity in China. The handover of Hong Kong on July 1 will require careful attention of Beijing's leaders, and it will be followed a few months later by the Communist Party's 15th Party Congress.
        Hong Kong, in addition to being closely watched for any rolling back of economic and political freedom, is widely seen as a test of Beijing's promises of autonomy, the same assurances it wants to extend to Taiwan some day.
        Taiwan is one of the largest looming issues for Mr. Jiang, who brought China to a tense military standoff a year ago when President Lee Teng-hui held Taiwan's first presidential election, and increasingly asserted diplomatic independence, to which Beijing's leaders strongly object.
        The Communist Party's congress in October will endorse a political platform and anoint a leader.
        China's official appraisal of Mr. Deng, issued by the New China News Agency in the hours after his death was announced, eulogized Mr. Deng in solemn tones.
        ''The death of Comrade Deng Xiaoping is an immeasurable loss to our Party, our army and the people of various ethnic groups throughout the country, and will certainly cause tremendous grief among the Chinese people,'' the official obituary said.
        ''We must conscientiously study Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, learn from Comrade Deng Xiaoping's revolutionary style and his scientific attitude and creative spirit in applying a Marxist stand, viewpoints and methods to studying new problems and solving new problems.
        ''Without Comrade Deng Xiaoping's theory, there would not be the new situation of reform and opening up in China today, and there would not be the bright future of China's socialist modernization.''
        The official obituary made no direct mention of the June 4 Tiananmen Square massacre, referring only to ''the domestic and international political disturbances in the late 1980's and early 1990's.''
        The official appraisal did refer to Mr. Deng's trip to southern China in 1992, which was his last major political stand. Facing opposition to his view that China should fuel fast economic growth no matter the risks of inflation and social instability, Mr. Deng toured several cities in southern China and made a key speech in Shenzhen, the fast-growing, modern city that abuts Hong Kong, that became a political touchstone in national policy of fast growth.
        That speech, in today's official description ''profoundly answered many key questions for understanding, which had been perplexing and binding people's minds for a long time, especially the questions concerning the relationship between socialism and market economy.''
        Huang Yasheng, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, argued that Mr. Deng's death would have less immediate effect on politics in China than might be expected, precisely because of the change that Mr. Deng helped engineer.
        ''Deng Xiaoping will mainly be remembered for his economic achievements, but people don't always realize that his enduring contribution also lies in politics,'' said Mr. Huang. ''He restored a sense of normalcy to China. One of the reasons that his death won't make much difference is that power is now shared among leaders and among different institutions. He made sure that the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution would not happen again.''
        Mr. Deng generally discouraged efforts to create a cult around himself, as his predecessor Mao had done. But then Mao was a man of considerable charisma and megalomania, and Mr. Deng was stronger at organizing and consensus-building.
        As Mao remarked about Mr. Deng to Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, in 1957: ''Do you see that little man over there? He is very intelligent and has a great future ahead of him.''
        Only in Mr. Deng's final years did the party authorities start to elevate ''Deng Xiaoping Thought'' to the level of national catechism.
        In 1992, Mr. Deng said boldly that reform ''must be insisted on for 100 years.'' He continued, ''Whoever wants to change this will be overthrown.''
        Mr. Jiang, not known for the kind of political daring that characterized Mr. Deng's long career, nonetheless appropriated Mr. Deng's fast-growth policy and has benefited from it.
        ''He looks very secure,'' said Andrew Nathan, a professor of political science at Columbia University, referring to Mr. Jiang. ''He has put a lot of his people in power. On the face of it, he is much more secure than Hua Guofeng was, but history says that there is no such thing as secure power in a system like this.''
        Mr. Hua's name, long forgotten by so many, appeared again today, way down toward the bottom of the list of the 479 members of Mr. Deng's funeral committee, a virtual who's who of China's political elite. Zhao Ziyang, the former party chief who unlike Mr. Hua did not go quietly, was not on the list.
        The official appraisal of Mr. Deng concluded in traditional, Communist Party-style language:
        ''Under the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with Comrade Jiang Zemin at the core, the whole party, the whole army and the people of various ethnic groups all over the country, holding high the banner of Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, firm and unshakable and full of confidence, will certainly be able to carry out the great cause of socialist reform, opening up and modernization drive pioneered by Comrade Deng Xiaoping and triumphantly reach our destination. Eternal Glory to Comrade Deng Xiaoping!''
        CHINA AFTER DENG: THE OVERVIEW
        Correction:  February 27, 1997, Thursday
        A picture caption last Thursday with the obituary of Mr. Jiang's predecessor, Deng Xiaoping, misstated the year in which Mr. Deng was shown reviewing troops in Beijing. It was 1984, not 1985.
      