
        Albert Shanker, who rose from being a substitute mathematics teacher to become a tough, canny labor leader who in the 1960's transformed New York City's United Federation of Teachers into one of the nation's most powerful unions, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Mr. Shanker, the longtime president of the American Federation of Teachers, the parent organization of the United Federation of Teachers, was 68 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        He died following a three-year battle with bladder cancer, said Janet Bass, a spokeswoman for the American Federation of Teachers.
        Sandra Feldman, who succeeded Mr. Shanker as president of the U.F.T. in 1986, yesterday called her predecessor a teacher's teacher who was ''deeply committed to both public education and the labor movement as a means of creating a better life for all Americans.''
        ''He could be passionate about his beliefs, yet at the same time he had the rare ability to rethink issues and come up with fresh approaches as times changed,'' she said.
        Although he became a respected thinker on national educational issues, Mr. Shanker is best remembered for his combative role as the head of the 85,000-member U.F.T., the New York City teachers' union, during the turmoil of the city's school decentralization experiments in 1968, turmoil that resulted in the closing of most schools for 55 days during the fall term and which were so racially and religiously divisive that the effects are still being felt three decades later.
        The dour Mr. Shanker became so widespread a symbol of stubborn combativeness that Woody Allen knew his audiences would appreciate a reference to him in his 1973 film comedy ''Sleeper.'' A character played by Mr. Allen is frozen in 1973 and awakens in the year 2173 to learn that human civilization was destroyed because ''a man by the name of Albert Shanker got hold of a nuclear warhead.''
        Undoubtedly Obstinate, But a Solid Negotiator
        There were times when Mr. Shanker was undoubtedly obstinate. But he was also an artful negotiator and organizer who built the United Federation of Teachers from a feeble association into perhaps the state's most powerful union, one that could virtually veto appointments to the Board of Education and determine the makeup of the city's 32 local school boards. He was also a pragmatist willing in 1975 to put $150 million of his union's pension funds at risk to save the city from defaulting on its debts.
        In the second act of his life as president of the American Federation of Teachers, with 900,000 members concentrated in large cities, he was widely regarded as a champion of rigorous educational standards. In a column that he wrote weekly for years as an advertisement in the Week in Review section of The New York Times, he called for a national competency test for teachers, pay increments tied to teacher quality and more rigorous requirements for high school graduation. In today's column, he discusses the flaws of the self-esteem movement in schools. Educational authorities like Theodore Sizer called him a ''towering figure.''
        ''I'm proudest of the fact that I've confounded people by being honest,'' Mr. Shanker said in a July interview with Joyce Purnick of The Times as he reviewed his career while battling cancer. ''I believe in traditional discipline and that history should not be distorted for current purposes. But I also believe that smaller schools where teachers and kids know each other's names are more effective. I called things as I saw them, so in certain ways I could be viewed as a progressive educator and in other ways as a traditionalist.''
        Mr. Shanker, a former junior high school mathematics teacher, had a quicksilver intellect and was a powerful debater, blessed with a memory that stored anecdotes and metaphors for use at the opportune moment. But he rose to fame as a fighter more than a thinker, in his iron-willed battle against efforts by local black groups to take control of their neighborhood schools.
        In the late 1960's, many blacks in New York City were frustrated by the sputtering drive for integration and the school system's poor record in educating their children. They pressed for school decentralization in their communities, believing it would give parents a greater voice in the education of their youngsters. Some members of the city's central Board of Education were opposed to such community control, fearing it would dilute their authority. Mr. Shanker, the son of European Socialists who himself had marched in civil rights demonstrations in Selma, Ala., was originally amenable to the first experiments in community governance.
        In March 1967 an agreement was reached between the State Legislature and Mayor John V. Lindsay that would provide an extra $54 million in state aid to education if New York City would present a school decentralization plan by the end of the year.
        Three experimental school districts were set up in three poor districts with large minority populations -- in East Harlem, the Lower East Side and Ocean Hill-Brownsville in Brooklyn. Mr. Shanker's union provided advice to Rhody McCoy, a black teacher who was named administrator of the governing board of the the Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district. Mr. Shanker even arranged for voluntary transfers of some teachers out of Ocean Hill and their replacement by more ideologically congenial professionals.
        But in a turnabout in April 1968, Mr. McCoy summarily transferred 13 white teachers, assistant principals and one principal out of the district against their will. Mr. McCoy offered no specific pedagogic reasons but it was believed he thought that the professionals in question were trying to sabotage the decentralization experiment.
        ''He called me and said, 'Something is going to happen and I'm afraid it's going to hurt our relationship,''' Mr. Shanker remembered. ''It was absolutely impossible to fathom except on the basis that he was threatened or something had happened there'' in the district.
        A Testing Ground For Community Control
        To Mr. Shanker and his union, the transfers were illegal, a violation of civil service laws and union contracts involving the right of workers to hold jobs unless charges of incompetence were proven. They also worried that the action in Ocean Hill would set a precedent and spread to other communities where local community figures that Mr. Shanker called ''vigilantes'' would try to seize control of the schools.
        To supporters of the Ocean Hill district, the matter was a test case of community control. Coming after the urban riots that followed the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and a wave of upheavals by left-wing students on college campuses, the conflict seemed to crystallize the nation's social fault lines.
        The union prevailed in court but could not get political leaders like Mayor Lindsay to use police to restore the teachers.
        ''Lindsay told me dozens of times during the strike: 'Al, you're absolutely right, but do you want the city to burn down?' '' Mr. Shanker recalled. ''I said, 'Where's it going to stop? That's blackmail.' ''
        In September, Mr. Shanker called the first of three citywide strikes that crippled the nation's largest public school system. The walkouts succeeded in closing 85 percent of the city's 900 schools for a total of 55 days into November, putting more than a million children out of classrooms and forcing tens of thousands of working parents to scramble for child care arrangements.
        During the days when schools were open, union teachers had to endure angry crowds outside many schools. Inside the Ocean Hill schools, members of the Black Panthers and militant local leaders like Robert (Sonny) Carson, who had been invited into the fray by Mr. McCoy, delivered antiwhite diatribes and threatened the teachers' families. The atmosphere was also poisoned by anti-Semitism directed at the many Jewish members of the U.F.T. Anti-Semitic catcalls were shouted by protesters and appeared in newspapers put out by the Afro-American Teachers Association. A student's anti-Semitic poem was read on the radio.
        Each time that the Board of Education gave in to Mr. McCoy's governing board, Mr. Shanker ordered the teachers to walk out. He did this in the face of opposition voiced in many of the city's editorial pages, by the Ford Foundation and the prestigious Public Education Association.
        The strikes did not end until the State Education Commissioner, James Allen Jr., suspended the Ocean Hill board and appointed a trustee to oversee the return of the union teachers.
        Mr. Shanker spent 15 days in jail for calling the strikes. For years afterward, he was often demonized for tarnishing his union's reputation for idealism and leaving a legacy of tensions between blacks and Jews. The accusations were deeply wounding to Mr. Shanker, whose integration efforts began when he was a college student at the University of Illinois and picketed segregated movie houses and restaurants in Urbana. But he always defended his decision, comparing the expulsion of teachers to the Nazism his mother lamented.
        ''To me what was going on here was the same thing,'' he said. ''Pushing a guy out of a principalship because he's white. Taking a bunch of teachers and calling them all sorts of anti-Semitic names and threatening to kill their kids or their husbands or wives. Somebody has to stand up to this and say you're not going to profit by this.''
        In the aftermath of the 1968 strikes, the State Legislature passed a law that decentralized the city's schools into 32 districts and gave elected boards the power to run elementary and junior high schools. Working behind the scenes, Mr. Shanker made sure the law contained strong protections for teachers' jobs.
        A Changing View Of Decentralization
        ''We wrote the decentralization law,'' he said. With turnouts in school board elections as low as 6 and 7 percent, the union's endorsements of candidates proved pivotal and it became evident in a few years that the strongest force in decentralization was the United Federation of Teachers.
        But in 1996 Mr. Shanker was critical of decentralization in his interview with Ms. Purnick. Agreeing with many in the education field, he said that community school board elections continued to result in the re-election of corrupt board members, very low voter turnout and confusion caused by unnecessarily complex ballots.
        ''It's all a shame and it's a moral outrage,'' Mr. Shanker said. ''But how much does that have to do with whether the kids are going to read on grade level or not? There's some correlation, but I would say not much. Because you're still not going to educate kids, because you have no educational plan out there.''
        The person who led the strike that changed New York was, for most of his life, a tall, lanky and ungainly intellectual with black horn-rimmed glasses and a mournful cast, like Eeyore's in ''Winnie the Pooh.'' He loved ideological debate and developed the pincer wit that enabled him to excel at it. An introspective man who read widely in history and biography, he also became a sophisticated baker of bread, a winemaker, an  aficionado of African art and a seeker of the best stereo equipment.
        Albert Shanker was born Sept. 14, 1928, into a family that was hardly uncommon on the Lower East Side, Yiddish-speaking Russian immigrants with Socialist passions.
        His father, Morris, delivered newspapers. He rose at 2 A.M. seven days a week, pushed a cart stacked with bundles of the city's half dozen morning newspapers through a five-mile area of Queens, then returned at 10 A.M. to deliver the afternoon newspapers. The young Mr. Shanker hardly ever saw him and knew him, he once said, as ''this angry, disgruntled guy who grabbed a roll and coffee and went out to work again.''
        His mother, Mamie, was a sewing machine operator and a member of Sidney Hillman's Amalgamated Clothing Workers. So grueling was her work that Mr. Shanker once visited her factory and could not recognize her as she sat bent in sweaty concentration at her machine.
        If both parents bequeathed a sympathy for workers, it was his thrifty mother who taught him how to negotiate.
        ''I'd have to wait half an hour while she bought three tomatoes,'' he once said.
        The family moved to the Ravenswood section of Queens and he remembered his childhood as miserable there. Many of his neighbors listened on radio to the anti-Semitic preachings of Father Coughlin and the younger ones sometimes took their venom out on Mr. Shanker. ''At the age of 12 I was 6 foot 3 and 110 pounds,'' he recalled. ''I was Jewish and living in an Irish Catholic neighborhood, so everybody took turns beating up the biggest kid.''
        As a result, he mostly stayed indoors, listening to radio or collecting stamps. But at 14 he joined the Boy Scouts. Upset that the troop was spending all its time at marching drills, he confronted the scoutmaster and asked for more hikes. When the scoutmaster was drafted into the Army, the teen-aged Mr. Shanker ran the troop on his own and persuaded boys to join with the same zeal he would later employ to enlist teachers into his union.
        Mr. Shanker attended Stuyvesant High School and the University of Illinois. He started a doctoral program in philosophy at Columbia University, but running out of money and patience, he took a year off in 1952 to teach at an elementary school for a salary of $38 a week. He never finished his doctorate.
        Moving to a junior high school in Astoria, he found he liked teaching intellectually gifted classes. But after a run-in with a principal over what Mr. Shanker felt was lax schoolwide discipline, he was assigned to the bottom classes in the school.
        His relief came in union activities. Teacher unions, then, were astonishingly ineffective. There were 106 of them, in part the result of bitter divisions over Communist loyalties and over pay differentials that rewarded high school teaching more than elementary teaching.
        The anti-Communist Teachers Guild was a weak group that did not earn much professional dignity or money for its 2,400 members. Mr. Shanker became the editor of the guild's newspaper, which was then delivered in unmarked envelopes, an indication of how suspicious authorities were of leftist unions.
        Along with colleagues like David Selden, he organized individual schools, visiting three out of every four in the city. One person he signed up was Edith Gerber, a Queens teacher, who became his second wife in 1960 and who went on to head a mentoring program at the City University of New York.
        In 1960, a merged body of teachers' unions, the United Federation, won the exclusive right to bargain for all teachers. Mr. Shanker, then the union's secretary, became the union's star. He had a knack for running meetings, letting opponents vent so much steam they infuriated the majority, who went on to vote against them.
        In 1964, while in his mid-30's, Mr. Shanker was elected president. Three years later, he shocked New Yorkers unaccustomed to strikes by white-collar professionals by leading a teachers' walkout over issues of disciplinary procedures. The action resulted in the first of two jailings.
        Focusing Efforts On the National Scene
        After the upheaval of the 1968 strike, he began turning his attention to the national labor scene, and in 1974, in an action that fractured their friendship, he succeeded Mr. Selden as president of the union's parent, the American Federation of Teachers, but also retained leadership of the U.F.T. for another 12 years.
        ''When he moved to Washington he became an education statesman and began thinking about things that needed to change,'' said Diane Ravitch, a former Assistant United States Secretary of Education. ''How do kids learn best? What is the best way to organize a school? How do we maintain standards?''
        Ms. Ravitch said he was a voice of common sense.
        ''This is a field consumed with trends and fads and people get carried away with the newest thing and he never gets carried away,'' she said.
        The theme he sounded repeatedly was standards. At a time when many educators argued that students should be promoted simply by age, he believed such promotion would give students little incentive to work. He also believed there should be consequences for serious misbehavior, such as separation from classmates, otherwise schoolwide discipline would break down.
        With time, Mr. Shanker's confrontational attitudes seemed to mellow.
        ''We got to the 1980's and we had too much of an adversarial relationship,'' he said in a 1992 interview of relations between unions and school boards. ''You don't get much done through conflict.''
        Mr. Shanker is survived by his wife, four children, Carl of Gaithersburg, Md.; Adam of Mt. Vernon, N.Y.; Jennie of Philadelphia, and Michael of Tarrytown, N.Y.; and a sister, Pearl Harris, of Cleveland.
      