
        Vladimir A. Yamnikov, manager of the Kristall distillery, one of the largest vodka makers in Russia, died in Moscow on Jan. 20. He was 56.
        As the distillery's longtime head, Mr. Yamnikov navigated the hulking red-brick factory and its work force through changes ranging from Mikhail S. Gorbachev's war on vodka drinking in the mid-1980's to Russia's fitful embrace of free-market principles in recent years.
        The Kristall distillery was for years the source of much of the Stolichnaya vodka exported to the United States. And Mr. Yamnikov, affable and articulate, became well known among expatriate business executives in Moscow, and was frequently quoted by Western journalists. Once asked about Mr. Gorbachev's quixotic campaign to force Russians to give up their vodka, he replied: ''I personally think the measures are too much. Nature is against emptiness.''
        Mr. Yamnikov, associates say, often entertained with generous glasses of his vodka. He died of cirrhosis, according to a Kristall plant official quoted by Reuters.
        In his taste for vodka, Mr. Yamnikov shared a national trait, one that goes back generations. The average Russian male consumes a bottle of vodka every two days; authorities say alcohol abuse is the country's biggest health problem. The life expectancy of a Russian man is 58.
        Mr. Yamnikov's career in some ways mirrored the mixed experience of many Russian executives as they struggle to make the transition to freewheeling commerce.
        ''Yamnikov was a product of the old Soviet system, but one who understood the profit motive as it evolved there,'' said Eric Whitman, vice president of Pepsico Wines and Spirits International, which holds the rights to the Stolichnaya name in the United States. ''And he had all the aspirations of being a capitalist.''
        His distillery was aggressive in pursuing opportunities abroad. It was an early commercial producer of flavored lines like pepper vodka and lemon vodka, and its reputation for quality allowed it premium-grade export status. Working with its American partner, Pepsico, Kristall made a top-of-the-line export brand, Stolichnaya Cristall, starting in 1989.
        In recent years, the distillery encountered troubles. Much of that resulted from Government policy changes, especially the imposition of high excise taxes beginning in 1994. The recent Government steps, unlike those of the Gorbachev era, do not include production curbs on vodka.
        But the taxes, equivalent to $7 a liter and intended to reduce the budget deficit, have battered vodka factories. They have generated a huge market for bootleg vodka, which typically sells for less than $2 a bottle.
        Since 1994, the Kristall distillery has occasionally bickered with the Government over tax payments, which can consume as much as 90 percent of its revenue. The factory has been forced to send its workers home on unpaid vacations periodically, with production starting a couple of weeks later each time. The financial shutdowns have been the only closings in the distillery's 102-year history not caused by war.
        In 1994, Mr. Yamnikov began a dispute with a group of Soviet-era trade officials and Pepsico over the use of the Cristall name on premium Stolichnaya vodka. The dispute seems to illustrate the uncertain ownership of Russian brands and trademarks, and it escalated into a legal battle that continues in United States courts.
        The conflict began when Pepsico sought a second Russian supplier for Stolichnaya Cristall, by going to a distillery in St. Petersburg.
        Mr. Yamnikov interpreted the step as a betrayal by Pepsico. To counter the move, Mr. Yamnikov stopped selling to Pepsico's Russian middleman and struck a deal with a Florida distributor to sell a new vodka brand.
        ''Yamnikov was a very proud man,'' Mr. Whitman of Pepsico said.
        The new export brand was called Moscow Signature Cristall, and the bottle and labeling were strikingly similar to Stolichnaya Cristall's distinctive black-and-gold bottle.
        In 1995, Pepsico filed suit in a Federal district court in Florida against the Moscow distillery, contending that it illegally copied the Stolichnaya Cristall bottle and labeling and exploited the Cristall name.
        Later that year, Mr. Yamnikov and his company sued Pepsico in a Seattle court, accusing Pepsico of having stolen the Stolichnaya Cristall name from the Kristall distillery. The court ordered the Moscow factory not to copy the Stolichnaya Cristall design, but gave it rights to the Cristall name. Pepsico is appealing.
      