
        T. Christopher Pettit, an investment banker who resigned last year as president of Lehman Brothers after disagreements over the direction of the company, died on Saturday near Windham, Me. He was 51.
        Mr. Pettit, of Brooklyn, died of head injuries suffered in a snowmobile accident that occurred near his vacation home, Andrew R. Pettit, a younger brother, said yesterday.
        Mr. Pettit, who as president and chief operating officer helped Lehman Brothers improve its profitability after it became a public company in 1992, was a supporter of cancer research, a sportsman and coach, and a decorated Army veteran and West Point graduate who served in combat in Vietnam.
        At Lehman Brothers, which he joined in 1977, Mr. Pettit rose through the commercial paper and bond departments to become a partner in 1982. He led a group that came to dominate the firm's management committee after the company re-gained its independence from the American Express Company in 1992.
        But friends and colleagues of Mr. Pettit said he eventually had a falling out with Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman and chief executive, over whether Lehman should be run by a committee or by one strong figure like Mr. Pettit. Mr. Pettit left the firm on Nov. 30 last year.
        Mr. Pettit, who was born on Feb. 18, 1945, in Huntington, L.I., attended Huntington High School, where he was captain of several sports teams and graduated in 1963. He graduated in 1967 from West Point, where he was an All-American and the leading scorer on the lacrosse team.
        In the Army, Mr. Pettit served as a battery commander at a missile base in Germany. He was in combat as an Army Ranger in Vietnam, earning two Bronze Stars and rising to the rank of captain.
        A sports enthusiast, Mr. Pettit helped to found the Cold Spring Harbor-Huntington Youth Lacrosse Club and coached youth lacrosse, soccer and basketball. He was inducted into the Long Island-Metro Lacrosse Hall of Fame in 1994.
        Mr. Pettit was also a benefactor of cancer research, helping to organize the Dorothy Rodbell Cohen Foundation for Sarcoma Research, which is affiliated with New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        Mr. Pettit is survived by his children, Lara of Manhattan, Kari, a student at Tufts University in Boston, Suzanne of Yosemite National Park in California, and Christopher, who attends the University of Maryland; his wife, Mary Anne, 51, of Huntington; his parents, William A. and Lorraine M. Pettit of Greenlawn, L.I.; three brothers, William of Narberth, Pa., Jeffrey of Media, Pa., and Andrew of Huntington; two sisters, Margo Labadini of Medford, Mass., and Elizabeth A. Chandler of Westfield, N.J.
      