
        Ernie Sabayrac, an entrepreneur who popularized the concept of selling golf shoes and apparel in pro shops and whose modest parking-lot display of products became a forerunner of the modern merchandising shows, died on Thursday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82.
        Mr. Sabayrac had been ill and in and out of the hospital since falling and breaking a leg on Jan. 2, his 82d birthday, said his daughter, Sally Laskey.
        Mr. Sabayrac is widely credited with inventing the spiked golf shoe. Actually, his daughter said, in the late 1940's he helped persuade club professionals to begin selling spiked shoes in their shops. Before that, many golfers bought street shoes in retail stores and had spikes added.
        ''Pros used to tell him, 'But we can't sell golf shoes,' '' said his son, Bill, ''and he used to say, 'That's right, you can't, because you don't have any.' ''
        Mr. Sabayrac also persuaded club pros to add slacks, shirts and other so-called ''soft products'' to the hard products of golf clubs and balls sold in their golf shops. And he developed a nationwide staff of 60 salesmen working for his company to sell these products to the pros.
        A native of Houston who grew up caddying, Mr. Sabayrac sold spiked shoes through Field and Flint, the forerunner of Footjoy, now the world's largest golf shoemaker, and he introduced apparel with the alligator logo through his association with Lacoste.
        At the 1954 P.G.A. Seniors Championship in Dunedin, Fla., he and some friends displayed products from their car trunks. Their informal show was so popular that it was moved inside a large tent. Today, the PGA Merchandise Show occupies a million square feet in the Orlando Orange County Convention Center in Florida.
        In 1994, the Professional Golfers Association of America created the Ernie Sabayrac award, for lifetime contributions to the golf industry.
        He is survived by his wife, Evelyn; his daughter, Sally, of Tampa, Fla., and his son, Bill, of Palm Beach Gardens.
      