
        Tony Williams, a drummer whose innovations made him one of the most influential jazz musicians of the last half-century, died on Sunday at the Seton Medical Center in Daly City, Calif. He was 51.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Kirk Tanksley.
        Mr. Williams was a child prodigy, and from his earliest recordings with the saxophonist Jackie McLean through his work with the Miles Davis band of the mid-1960's on to his own jazz and rock fusion groups, he retained his own sound.
        Early in his career he was a master of the ride cymbal. He liked a clean, spare sound evoking the slight sizzle of fat in a frying pan, and often moved abruptly between light and cluttered textures. And in his swing, Mr. Williams was utterly committed. There was a sense, in his early music, that he was completely taken by velocity and forward motion.
        As part of the Davis quintet's rhythm section, with Herbie Hancock on piano and Ron Carter on bass, Mr. Williams radically changed the way a band worked. In his hands tempos were pliable, and he was comfortable halfing and doubling the pulse, plying the emotional implications of elastic tempos.
        Along with his band mates, Mr. Williams took group improvisation further than it had gone before, developing structural improvisations that made the form of a tune seem finally irrelevant to the music. Thirty years later, his early playing is still striking for its audacity; his capacity to listen, to hear within the group and augment the musical conversation, seemed unbounded..
        Mr. Williams was born in Chicago and grew up in Boston. He began playing drums at the age of 8, encouraged by his father, the saxophonist Tillmon Williams. By the time he was 15, he was playing regularly around Boston, working with gritty organ groups and experimental musicians.
        An early association with the saxophonist Sam Rivers, with whom he played in 1959 and 1960, led to work with other leading jazz figures. In 1963 he recorded with Mr. McLean and began an association with the Blue Note label that produced some of the most admired works of the era. That year, Mr. Williams, then 17, was invited to join a newly formed group led by Davis, who was embarking on a new sound. Mr. Williams, Wayne Shorter, Mr. Hancock and Mr. Carter were there to develop it. The recordings they made together, including ''E.S.P.,'' ''Miles Smiles,'' ''Sorcerer'' and ''Live at the Plugged Nickel,'' are some of the most important in jazz.
        Mr. Williams was regularly recording with other people as well, and the list of his collaborators on the Blue Note label sums up the experimental mainstream of the time. That list included Freddie Hubbard, Andrew Hill, Eric Dolphy, Grachan Moncur and Mr. McLean. Mr. Williams's own two recordings for Blue Note include the masterful ''Spring,'' from 1965, which featured Mr. Shorter and Mr. Rivers on saxophone. He also continued studying,  working on harmony and composition with teachers from the Juilliard School of Music and the University of California at Berkeley.
        By the end of his association with Davis, in mid-1969, Mr. Williams's style had changed. His playing lost its opaque, cool quality and his music took on weight and density. He had been listening to rock and Jimi Hendrix, and along with Davis, he began thinking about moving toward a fusion of popular music and jazz.
        In 1969 he put together a group, Lifetime, one of the foundations of the new music called fusion. It included Larry Young on organ and John McLaughlin on guitar, and it recorded its first album that year for Polydor Records, ''Emergency!'' Mr. Williams continued on the fusion route until 1973, then took some time off. He began recording for Columbia, with musicians from the improvising pianist Cecil Taylor to the rock guitarist Ronnie Montrose.
        In the late 1970's Mr. Williams returned to mainstream jazz as part of the Great Jazz Trio, with Hank Jones and Mr. Carter. He also  formed the group V.S.O.P., with Mr. Shorter, Mr. Hancock and Mr. Carter; as late as 1995, when the group recorded the Grammy-winning ''Tribute To Miles Davis,'' the shadow of their old boss was still in place.
        In the mid-1980's, Mr. Williams made a series of highly regarded albums for the reactivated Blue Note label. He included the young musicians Wallace Roney, Donald Harrison and Mulgrew Miller along with Bobby Hutcherson and Mr. Carter. By this point he had also absorbed rock and funk into his mainstream jazz vocabulary. His most recent album, ''Wilderness,'' merged fusion and classical music.
        He is survived by his wife, Colleen, of Pacifica, Calif., and his mother, Alyse Janez.
      