
        Charles E. Inniss, a retired vice president of the Brooklyn Union Gas Company and the chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, died on Thursday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Mr. Inniss, who lived in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, was 61.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marjorie.
        Mr. Inniss devoted his life to community, social and educational concerns. A partial list of his titles at his death included trustee of the City University of New York, chairman of the university's Construction Corporation, trustee and past chairman of the Studio Museum in Harlem and a director of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, the Catholic Interracial Council, the Marcus Garvey Nursing Home in Brooklyn and the Staten Island Zoological Society.
        At the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit community development group in Brooklyn where he became a director in 1983 and was elected chairman in 1994, Mr. Inniss helped establish and develop the Bedford-Stuyvesant Family Health Center, the Billie Holiday Theater and the corporation's Center for Art and Culture. He first served the corporation as its director of area development from 1969 to 1973.
        At various times and in various capacities he also helped the Brooklyn Arts Council, the Mayor's New York City Advisory Cultural Commission, the American Gas Foundation and the Black Officer's Association. He was a retired captain of the 369th Artillery Battalion of the Army National Guard.
        Mr. Inniss joined Brooklyn Union Gas in 1979 as an assistant manager in public relations and communications. He retired in 1995 as vice president for community affairs.
        ''Responsibility was taught in the home,'' Mr. Inniss's brother, Wilbur, said. ''Caring for people was taught in the home, and my brother loved people.''
        Mr. Inniss was born in Harlem and spent the formative years of his childhood in the East Bronx. His parents, Edna and Stanley Inniss, had come to the United States from Barbados and Canada.
        He graduated from Evander Childs High School and in 1968 earned a Bachelor of Science degree in economics from New York University. He began his career as an assistant district service manager for Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
        In 1980, Mr. Inniss received a master's degree in public information from N.Y.U. His honors included a Doctor of Laws degree from St. Joseph's College in Brooklyn.
        In addition to his wife, the former Marjorie Thomas, and his brother, Wilbur, who lives on Staten Island, Mr. Inniss is survived by two sisters, Norma and Frances, both of the Bronx.
      