
        Sidney W. Dean Jr., a longtime trustee of the City Club of New York and a strong advocate of free speech who fought for years to make cable television a positive force for the city, died on Jan. 24 at his Greenwich Village apartment.
        He was 91 and died after suffering a stroke, his wife, Eugenia, said.
        Mr. Dean was an advertising and marketing executive who in 1952 became a trustee of the City Club of New York, the city's oldest good-government organization. For the next 41 years he used his roles as trustee, president and chairman of the City Club, as well as volunteer positions with the American Civil Liberties Union and Americans for Democratic Action, to argue for municipal policies favoring free speech.
        ''He was on the forefront of telling us about the privacy and First Amendment issues and teaching us about communications and communications technologies,'' said Amy Issacs, national president of Americans for Democratic Action.
        In 1970, when cable television franchises were first being proposed for  New York City, Mr. Dean began pressing the city to require numerous public access channels and to prevent cable operators from having any financial interest in programs or channels they carry.
        ''So long as cable systems can control their content they will attempt to deny market access to all other producers and distributors of print and electronic communications,'' Mr. Dean wrote in a 1973 letter to The New York Times. Such issues persist today as Rupert Murdoch tries to get his new 24-hour news channel onto the cable system operated by Time Warner, his rival in the news and entertainment business and the owner of CNN.
        Today Time Warner owns many of the channels on its system and so does Cablevision, the other cable franchise holder in the city.
        In 1980 Mr. Dean criticized the city's process for awarding cable television franchises as a ''blind man's bluff-purchasing agent act'' in which the city was ''settling for too little from the cable companies.'' He said that nothing in the city's franchise award plans ''holds out any hope of cable reaching out to the poor, ghettoized and handicapped.''  Today, fewer than half the households in the city subscribe.
        During the debates over awarding cable franchises, Mr. Dean was once invited to a private meeting of city officials and representatives of the franchise seekers, but declined. ''I will never go into a backroom discussion,'' he told Sally Goodgold, another City Club trustee.
        Mr. Dean was the son of a Boston newspaper editor who constantly preached the First Amendment's virtues to his son.
        After graduating from Yale University in 1926, Mr. Dean joined J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency, and later worked with other marketing companies.
        During World War II, as an Army Air Force officer, he analyzed photographs of bomb damage. He volunteered to fly on some bombing runs because he felt it would make his analysis more accurate, his friend  Peter Stanford said.
        Mr. Dean is survived by his wife and a son, Ronald Stowe, who lives in the Philippines.
      