
        Manfred Klafter, a Dutch Holocaust survivor who founded an Israeli organization offering psychological and social support to Israel's 300,000 Holocaust survivors and their families, died on Feb. 6 in Bern. He was 77 and lived in Jerusalem.
        He died of injuries suffered 10 days earlier when he fell while skiing, the organization said.
        An advocate of both emotional support and material aid to survivors of the Holocaust, Mr. Klafter founded the support group in 1987 after discovering that Israel had no agency providing specialized assistance to its large population of survivors and their families.
        The organization, the only one providing such a variety of services to Holocaust survivors, is known as Amcha, or the National Israeli Center for Psychosocial Support of Survivors of the Holocaust and the Second Generation.
        With five branches across Israel, the group provides therapy, counseling and social activities to survivors, documents their life stories and trains social workers and health professionals to treat them.
        The group's staff of mental health professionals, experts in post-traumatic stress, have also assisted efforts to aid survivors of mass killings in Rwanda and Croatia, and counseled rescue workers returning from scenes of terrorist attacks in Israel.
        In founding the organization, Mr. Klafter said he had sought to help Holocaust survivors living with suppressed memories they had been urged to put behind them in Israel's early years of nation-building.
        ''He was a visionary, stubborn and single-minded,'' said the director of Amcha, John Lemberger. ''He saw ahead of his time the need for this kind of aid to survivors.''
        Born in Utrecht, the Netherlands, Mr. Klafter served as an officer in the Dutch Army in World War II and helped rescue Jews from Germany by smuggling them across the Dutch border.
        He was captured in 1944 and held in the Westerbork concentration camp, but escaped. He moved to Israel in 1965.
        An international marketing consultant, Mr. Klafter traveled throughout Europe to urge governments there to provide aid for psychological care of Holocaust survivors in Israel. He got contributions from the Dutch and Austrian Governments and the European Commission, and recently, the Swiss Government gave Amcha about $350,000.
        After disclosures in recent months about assets of Jewish victims of the Nazis held in Swiss banks, Mr. Klafter called for establisment of compensation funds for the survivors while they were still alive.
        Mr. Klafter is survived by his wife, Esther Klafter, and by a brother, Dr. Zvi Eyal, both of Jerusalem.
      