
        John R. Bartels, for 38 years a Federal judge of the Eastern District of New York, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Brooklyn.
        Judge Bartels, who lived in Brooklyn Heights, was 99 and the oldest sitting Federal judge. He would have observed his 100th birthday on Nov. 8.
        An appointee of President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1959, Judge Bartels retired in 1973, when he was 76, saying he did so with regret, primarily to permit the appointment of another judge to address the increasingly busy calendar at the courthouse at 225 Cadman Plaza East, in Brooklyn. He then assumed the status of a senior judge and continued to hear cases until the end of his life.
        ''There's no job as good as a district judge,'' he once said. ''This job keeps me young, and I am very fond of it.''
        As a judge, Mr. Bartels presided over a broad spectrum of cases that involved everything from labor racketeering and fraudulent promotion of diet pills to bank embezzlement, labor disputes on the Long Island Rail Road, murder, the environment and  income tax evasion.
        But his best known and longest-running case, which began in 1972,  involved more than 5,000 retarded children and adults who were residents of the Willowbrook Developmental Center on Staten Island. The center, run by the state for the mentally retarded, became the target of a Federal District Court suit by parents and civil liberties lawyers, who termed it a place of horror, where people ''deteriorated both mentally and physically.''
        Under decisions and settlements made by Judge Bartels, the population of Willowbrook was sharply reduced through the transfer of many patients to small group homes. The number of workers serving the remaining patients was increased, and Willowbrook was eventually closed, becoming a college of the City of New York.
        In 1992, at one of the last hearings in the case, when virtually all of Willowbrook's patients had been placed elsewhere, Judge Bartels said, ''The retarded have really overcome, and social justice has prevailed.''
        That year, a portrait of Judge Bartels, commissioned by his former law clerks, was unveiled in the Ceremonial Courtroom of the District Court, where it hangs today.
        Another of the judge's high-profile cases involved Gene Gotti, the brother of the organized crime figure John Gotti. Gene Gotti was convicted in 1989 of running a multimillion-dollar heroin ring.
        In a dramatic ruling minutes before the jury announced it was ready to render a verdict, the judge dismissed a juror who said he had been threatened in his driveway and feared for his life.
        Judge Bartels was also known for his opposition to pretrial publication of a defendant's criminal record as prejudicial to a fair trial.
        Mr. Bartels, the son of William N. Bartels and the former Louise Reuther, was born in Baltimore on Nov. 8, 1897. After military service during World War I, he graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1920 with a bachelor of arts degree and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1923. He was admitted to the Bar of the State of New York in 1924, and entered private practice.
        Specializing in general civil litigation and corporate law, he was associated with the firm of Carter, Led yard & Milburn for eight years and then became a partner in Lundgren, Bartels & Lincoln.
        Mr. Bartels entered public service in 1945 as a member of the New York State Law Revision Commission, charged with recommending changes in statutes and rules of law to modernize the state's law. Mr. Bartels served on the commission until 1950 and returned from 1952 to 1957, after Gov. Thomas E. Dewey named him in 1950 to fill an interim vacancy on the State Supreme Court bench in Brooklyn.
        The judge was a founder and first president of the Johns Hopkins Club of New York. In 1963, he was designated an honorary citizen of the State of Maryland, and in 1967, he received the Johns Hopkins Distinguished Alumnus Award.
        He was a former secretary of the Board of Regents of Long Island College Hospital and a former chairman of the lay advisory board of the Kings County Hospital Center.
        The judge was also a member of many professional organizations and the author of scholarly articles that appeared in such publications as the Cornell Law Quarterly and the American Bar Association Journal.
        Mr. Bartels was married in 1930 to Anne Bell Willson, who died in 1967. He is survived by two sons, John. R. Jr., of Stamford, Conn., and William G., of Brooklyn Heights; five grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      