
        Mario Henrique Simonsen, an economist who served as Brazil's Finance Minister in the tumultuous 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 61.
        Mr. Simonsen, who also served on the boards of several major corporations, was appointed by President Ernesto Geisel in 1974, part way through 21 years of military rule.
        Brazil had been ravaged by inflation since the late 1950's, but had also enjoyed rapid growth, which ended with the sharp rise in oil prices in 1973. During his four years as Finance Minister inflation climbed to around 40 percent annually, but Mr. Simonsen said that inflation was not his fault, that he had merely unmasked efforts by his predecessors to understate inflation.
        He encouraged industrialization policies that he acknowledged would initially increase the gap between rich and poor, but said that the policies were necessary to finance growth that would eventually expand opportunity for millions. ''Economic growth itself, by increasing the value of manpower, is one of the most effective instruments of distribution'' of income, he said in 1974.
        In 1979 he became planning minister, but left six months later after losing a struggle with Antonio Delfim Netto, his successor as Finance Minister. Mr. Simonsen warned that excessive borrowing would reignite inflation and lead to a crisis. Inflation soon soared to more than 1,000 percent annually and Brazil was unable to repay its foreign debts.
        Mr. Simonsen was a technocrat, a term of respect in Brazil for experts whose support cuts across the political spectrum, said William Rhodes, vice chairman of Citicorp. ''He was very concerned early on about how to tame inflation,'' Mr. Rhodes said.
        In 1980, Mr. Simonsen became a director of Citicorp, a key lender to Brazil, and served until 1995 when emphysema, brought on by years of heavy smoking, forced him to retire. He also sat on the boards of the Brazilian affiliates of companies like Coca-Cola and Xerox.
        Mr. Simonsen was also a director and professor at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, an economic institute in Rio de Janeiro, where many of his students later became senior government officials.
        He was an opera buff with a baritone voice who wrote opera reviews for a Brazilian news magazine.
        Mr. Simonsen is survived by his wife, Iluska Pereria da Cunha Simonsen; two sons, Ricardo and Sergio, and a daughter, Maria Cristiana Reino, all of Brazil.
      