
        Dr. Lewis Henry Gann, a writer, an editor and an archivist steeped in the intersecting histories of Africa and Europe, died on Jan. 17 in his adopted hometown of Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72.
        He suffered a heart attack, according to a statement from the Hoover Institution in Stanford, where he was a senior fellow.
        From 1967 to 1993, Dr. Gann was also deputy curator of the African Collection at the institution and then, until he retired two years ago, curator of its West European Collection.  The collections are repositories for scholars to document history, politics, government and economics, with much of the material in the original languages.
        He was German Jewish by birth, studied in England, worked as an archivist in British colonial Africa and settled in California. He drew on his training in both history and anthropology in his writings and on the trans-Atlantic lecture circuits.
        A good deal of his work was done with a colleague at Stanford, Peter Duignan. They produced books like ''The Rebirth of the West'' (1992), ''Africa South of the Sahara'' (1972) and ''Burden of Empire'' (1967). Altogether, Dr. Gann wrote or edited 38 books and monographs besides contributions to periodicals -- overviews of German history, colonialism in Africa, military affairs, guerrilla warfare, race relations, the history of Hispanic people in the United States and comparative studies in Japanese and European colonialism.
        At his death he was working on a history of Germany from Bismarck to Helmut Kohl and had nearly completed an account of World War II and its consequences. Dr. Gann was also studying the new debate over immigration in the United States.
        He was born Ludwig Hermann Ganz in Mainz and reached England with his parents in 1938. He served as an interpreter with the Royal Fusiliers in World War II and graduated from Balliol College at Oxford University in 1950. He earned master's  and doctoral degrees at Oxford.
        Surviving are a daughter, Margaret Sandvig of Salem, Ore.; a son, Thomas, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Peter, of Oxford, and four grandchildren.
      