
        Thomas B. Stoddard, a lawyer whose persuasiveness and erudition advanced the cause of equal rights for gay men, lesbians and people with AIDS, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48.
        The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Walter Rieman.
        Mr. Stoddard was executive director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund in New York from 1986 to 1992, fighting discrimination against homosexuals and AIDS patients in employment, housing, health care, insurance, family law and military service. During his tenure, Lambda's staff grew from 6 to 22 people and it became a nationally influential organization.
        As an adjunct professor at the New York University School of Law, beginning in 1981, Mr. Stoddard taught one of the first courses on constitutional law, case law and statutes that affect the lives of lesbians and gay men. There are now dozens of such courses around the nation.
        Mr. Stoddard was also an author of the bill passed by the New York City Council in 1986 that protects homosexuals against bias in housing, employment and public accommodations. ''The legislation was drafted by Tom Stoddard and it was perfect,'' recalled former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who signed the bill into law. ''He was an extraordinary lawyer. Even though he never retreated, he would find a way to explain, to placate and convince opponents that his approach was reasonable, rational and one they could accept. That's a gift.''
        Quotable and telegenic with an earnest demeanor, Mr. Stoddard became a spokesman and lobbyist for civil liberties generally and gay civil rights in particular, using his understated mien to disarm critics and win allies. But his conciliatory approach alienated some of the more outspoken gay-rights advocates. And Mr. Stoddard's last major public role, as director of the Campaign for Military Service, ended in bitter defeat.
        In April 1993, he and other leaders of homosexual groups met with President Clinton, the first such delegation to be welcomed to the Oval Office. Participants said Mr. Clinton assured them he would keep his promise to end the policy of banning homosexuals from military service solely on the basis of sexual orientation. Three months later, Mr. Clinton endorsed a policy that retained the ban, though it nominally limited the scope of official investigations. The White House characterized this as a compromise, but Mr. Stoddard was unpersuaded. ''You can't simply split the difference on matters of principle,'' he said.
        Despite this setback and his deteriorating health, Mr. Stoddard appeared indefatigable. In June, he was a grand marshal in the Gay and Lesbian Pride March in New York. When the day broke dark and drizzly, he sensed that news accounts might impute some significance to the weather. Before joining the march, he met a small battery of reporters and declared pre-emptively: ''The rain is not a metaphor. The future of the movement is full of sun.'' With that, he took off down Fifth Avenue in a baby-blue convertible, with his day's supply of antiviral drugs in an insulated bag at his side.
        Mr. Stoddard was born in Seattle and spent much of his adolescence in Glenview, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He attended Georgetown University and the New York University School of Law, where he was a fellow in the Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program.
        On graduating in 1977, Mr. Stoddard joined the firm of Norwick, Raggio, Jaffe & Kayser. He served in Albany as counsel to Barbara Shack, the legislative director for the New York Civil Liberties Union, then succeeded to that post in 1982, when the death penalty and abortion rights were at the top of the agenda.
        Having aspired to be a journalist, he was adept at distilling complex ideas into words. When the United States Supreme Court upheld Georgia's sodomy law in 1986, Mr. Stoddard called it ''our Dred Scott case,'' referring to the 1857 ruling that a slave could not attain citizenship under the constitution.
        In his view, litigation was ''just partly about winning the case and establishing a favorable legal precedent,'' wrote Robert Murphy, a lawyer who is working on a biography of Mr. Stoddard. ''As importantly, and perhaps more so, it is a vehicle for public education.''
        Mr. Stoddard presaged by a decade the national debate over same-sex marriage. ''The general public seems to feel that being gay is an individual existence that precludes family life,'' he said in 1985, on being appointed to head Lambda. ''In fact, it often involves being part of a family in every possible sense: as spouse, as parent, as child. Society needs to foster greater stability in gay relationships.''
        Mr. Stoddard and Mr. Rieman, a partner in the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, had a wedding in 1993. The two men exchanged gold bands and the vow,  ''I commit to you my life and my love for the rest of our days.''
        AIDS cases, which represented one-fifth of the Lambda docket when Mr. Stoddard took over, grew to nearly 50 percent of the caseload in 1988. The next year, Mr. Stoddard learned that he himself had Kaposi's sarcoma, an AIDS-related cancer. ''I became the client as well as the lawyer,'' he said. ''The 'they' became 'we.' ''
        At first, Mr. Stoddard kept the news quiet. But several years ago, he began to integrate the disease into his public identity. He joined the board of the American Foundation for AIDS Research and, though increasingly frail in recent months, he attended the first White House conference on AIDS and flew to Vancouver, British Columbia, for the 11th international AIDS conference.
        Besides Mr. Rieman, Mr. Stoddard is survived by his mother, Meta, of Conroe, Tex.; a brother, John, of Seattle, and a sister, Linda Leonard, of Henderson Harbor, N.Y.
        Last year, the Tom Stoddard Fellowship was established at New York University, under which a third-year law student is to work with public-interest organizations on gay civil rights cases. To benefit the new program, several hundred of Mr. Stoddard's friends and colleagues gathered at the New York City Bar Association building in mid-Manhattan.
        After introductions and a video tribute, Mr. Stoddard rose to speak. ''Day to day life is rather difficult for me these days,'' he said, ''yet I have a good time at it.''
        Closing with a paraphrase of Emerson -- ''I am defeated every day yet to victory I'm born'' -- he stepped away from the lectern to a standing ovation.
      