
        Dr. John Perry Miller, an economics professor for more than 40 years at Yale University who was the dean of the university's graduate school in the 1960's, died yesterday morning at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 85.
        He joined the economics department at Yale in 1939 after teaching briefly at Harvard and Princeton. He became an authority on industrial organization and public policy and was on a committee of seven economists who advised President Harry S. Truman on stabilizing and rebuilding the New England economy after a recession in the late 1940's.
        Dr. Miller was appointed director of Yale's social sciences division, one of the three major faculty divisions, in 1959. He became the dean of the graduate school in 1961, holding the post until 1969.
        As dean, he presided over several major changes in the university's approach to graduate education, including establishment of a Master of Philosophy degree, the first of its kind in the nation.
        The degree, awarded to students who have satisfied all of the requirements for a doctorate except the writing of a dissertation, was intended to alleviate a shortage of college instructors. The move was seen as a challenge to the Ph.D. as the only valid mark of achievement for those seeking to join college faculties.
        Following a trend started by Columbia University, Dr. Miller also instituted Yale's first combined degree program, allowing students to receive a bachelor's and master's degree in the same course of study. He called the combined degree program a forebear of ''radical readjustments of the relationships between our secondary schools, colleges and graduate and professional schools.'' Combined degree programs are common today.
        As dean, he also served on the faculty committee that in 1962 recommended admitting women as undergraduates.
        John Perry Miller was born in 1911 in Lynn, Mass. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard in 1932. He received a Master of Arts degree in 1934 and a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1937, also from Harvard. He worked as a principal economist for the Office of Price Administration in Washington before being assigned to the Navy's Office of Procurement during World War II. He was released from the Navy in 1945 as a lieutenant commander.
        Besides teaching, he also worked as a consultant on industrial economics, military procurement and higher education. He was director of Yale's Institution for Social and Policy Studies from 1969 to 1974 and also led the Campaign for Yale, a capital fund-raising drive that collected more than $370 million for the university in the early 1970's. He retired in 1981.
        At the time of his death, he was the Elizabeth S. and A. Varick Stout Emeritus Professor of Social Science.
        He is survived by a daughter, Ann M. Finicane, a lawyer in Brimfield, Mass.; a son, Dr. Perry Lowell Miller, a professor at Yale Medical School, and six grandchildren.
      