
        Bohumil Hrabal, who was widely regarded as the grand old man of Czech literature and whose novella ''Closely Watched Trains'' became an Oscar-winning film, died on Monday in a fall from a Prague hospital building. He was 82.
        A hospital spokesman said he was being treated for severe arthritis at the hospital and fell from a fifth-floor window as he tried to feed birds,  Reuters reported.
        His hallmark was tragedy tinged with humor, and he wrote of the travails of ordinary people as well as the intelligentsia from a mildly surreal perspective. He was in love with the Czechs and their language and imparted this love in novels, short stories, poems, film scripts, essays and autobiographical ruminations.
        The caprices of a Czech existence kept him from becoming a professional writer until 1962, when he was 48, but then his contributions poured forth in a steady stream the state censors sought vainly to dam.
        He welcomed the Prague Spring of Alexander Dubcek in 1968, and when the Soviet-led invasion snuffed out the democracy movement he fed a devoted readership by samizdat, or clandestine publication, and with copies smuggled from abroad. He was one of the few well-known Czech writers who neither fled the country nor bowed to the quasi-Stalinist conformity that descended with the Soviet tanks.
        Refusing to provide the obligatory ''self-criticism,'' he was banished to oblivion. He resurfaced in 1976 with ''The Haircut,'' causing a sensation and much political prognostication about a reawakening of Czech literary life. The 20,000 copies allowed by the Government flew from the shelves before the day was out.
        Mr. Hrabal's ''Too Loud a Solitude'' (1990), told the tale of Hanta, a somewhat reclusive career flunky. Hanta earned his keep by crushing and baling printed matter like books for recycling, echoing a chapter in the author's own past. In ''Dancing Lessons for an Advanced Age'' (1995), he tells of a life lived to the full -- all in a single rambling sentence. He recalls his bawdy exploits as a soldier, brewery worker and cobbler, remembrances falling like cards from a well-shuffled deck.
        ''Closely Watched Trains,'' one of his early efforts and a runaway success, was a deftly humorous story of a very young man heroically facing the country's Nazi occupiers in 1945. He and Jiri Menzel, an actor and director, turned the book into a movie that won the Academy Award for best foreign-language film of 1967.
        Mr. Hrabal, son of a brewery agent, was born in 1914 in the Moravian city of Brno in what was then the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Travels with his father exposed him to the  foibles and concerns of common folk. He studied law at Charles University in Prague until it was shut down during the German occupation.
        From then until 1962 he made a living as a lawyer's clerk, railway worker, insurance agent, foundry worker, stagehand and stage extra. He wrote three autobiographical novels that meshed into a masterly self-portrait: ''The Small Town Where Time Stopped,'' limning the earnest provincial who writes on weekends in his father's brewery; ''My Brilliant Solitude,'' in which he is the modernist concerned about his culture's future, and ''I Served the King of England,'' the signature of the mischievous, shrewd observer.
        He favored a Prague taproom, the Golden Bear, where he chatted briefly with President Clinton and President Vaclav Havel in January 1994. It was a far cry from the uneasy days in totalitarian Prague when foreign visitors, hoping to have a talk, would meet the writer almost furtively in the hubbub of a noisy beer hall.
      