
        Dr. Ernest Stacey Griffith, a political scientist and former Federal official who wrote on the workings of government, died on Jan. 17 at the Parkview Nursing Home in Portland, Ore. He was 100.
        Dr. Griffith moved to Portland in 1990, after living in Washington for 55 years.
        A former director of what is now the Congressional Research Service, which conducts research for Congress, he was long associated with American University. In 1958 he became the first dean of its School of International Service. He retired from the faculty in 1965.
        In his many writings, starting in 1927, Dr. Griffith concentrated on  Congress, the Presidency and the history of city government. His textbook ''The American System of Government'' (Praeger, 1954) is in its sixth edition. Based on a series of Fulbright lectures he gave at Oxford University, it offered a comparison with the parliamentary system.
        Dr. Griffith was born in Utica, N.Y. After graduating from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., he served two years in the Naval Air Service in World War I and then went to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, earning a doctorate in 1925.
        He was a faculty member at Princeton and Harvard. From 1930 to 1935, he was the dean of undergraduates at Syracuse University, then dean of the Graduate School. Later, he became a professor of political science at Washington University. In 1940, he was appointed director of the Legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress, which became the Congressional Research Service. He held that post  until 1958. Dr. Griffith was responsible for research on the military effort in World War II and oversaw preparations for the Congressional Reorganization Act of 1946 and the Wilderness Act of 1964.
        Dr. Griffith was an early member of the Wilderness Society and was its treasurer from 1942 to 1972.
        Surviving are two daughters, Margo Earley of Mount Hood, Ore., and Alison Tennyson of Washington; two sons, Lawrence, of Baltimore, and Stephen, of Portland; 13 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      