
        Charles Schinitsky, a champion of the legal rights of children whose work helped to revolutionize the juvenile court system in New York in a way that became a model for court systems nationwide, has died and will be honored in a program at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York on March 17.
        He was 80 and died Sept. 6 of Parkinson's disease. Mr. Schinitsky had lived in the Gramercy Park section of Manhattan with his wife, Clare, and his daughter, Susan. The New York Times learned of his death through the announcement of the bar association's program.
        Mr. Schinitsky, who founded the Juvenile Rights Division of the Legal Aid Society in 1961 and was its Attorney in Charge for 19 years, found himself trying to alter the juvenile justice system after undertaking a study for the Association of the Bar of the City of New York and the Citizen's Committee for Children.
        In what were then called Children's Courts in New York, he concluded, children who had had minor brushes with the law as well as those who had had more serious encounters were completely at the mercy of judges, probation officers or police officers who treated them without regard for the civil-rights protections guaranteed to adults by the United States Constitution.
        In New York, and generally throughout the country, he found that such children were, for the most part, not being represented by lawyers. And, he found, children were often being judged guilty of delinquent acts on the basis of the uncorroborated testimony of other children or of one parent's assertions or the unchallenged testimony of a police officer or parole officer.
        These young people, Mr. Schinitsky wrote, ''may be committed to an institution, state or private, for several years and a neglected child removed from the home of his protesting parents.''
        He told colleagues he had found judges who kept their courtrooms completely closed, regarding themselves as kings who had a divine right to decide what was best for their ''delinquents'' and who, though well-intentioned, paid little heed to  the children's opinions or rights. He vowed to correct the situation.
        His study, completed in 1960, along with what experts of court reform described as his low-key but tenacious lobbying, paved the way for the New York Legislature to enact state laws two years later that created the family court system. Such courts are now more open. They routinely direct a more comprehensive assessment of childhood and domestic problems and they mandate that a lawyer be made available for every child who comes before the court.
        In 1967, the United States Supreme Court followed New York's lead and adopted the requirement that lawyers be made available to children charged with delinquency.
        In an opinion, Justice Abe Fortas cited a friend-of-the-court brief by Mr. Schinitsky in the landmark In re Gault case. In that case, an Arizona court had found a 15-year-old guilty of delinquency without providing a lawyer to represent the child and without having a lawyer review a transcript of court proceedings or cross-examine witnesses.
        Previously, the theory in most states was that court officials should be free to act at their own discretion so that without undue delays or the potential for posturing and excessive interference by lawyers, the interests of the child could be looked after more expeditiously. ''Judges and probation officers enjoyed virtually unbridled discretion to deal with each case as they saw fit, but they acted more out a kind of medical or social science concern than a legal one,'' Martin Guggenheim, a law professor at New York University School of Law, said yesterday.
        Mr. Schinitsky told the Court that the presence of lawyers in the juvenile courts did not appear to have hindered justice but to the contrary, seemed to have safeguarded the children's interests. The court subsequently extended constitutional protections to include children.
        Before turning to juvenile law, Mr. Schinitsky worked as a public defender in adult criminal cases in Federal courts. Judge John Marshall Harlan, who in 1955 had just been nominated to the Supreme Court, singled out Mr. Schinitsky in a speech before the Bar Association of the City of New York. He called Mr. Schinitsky an ''extraordinarily able young man, as devoted a lawyer to his clients as any private practitioner that I have ever seen no matter what the fee would be that he was being paid.''
        In 1961, after a brief period in private practice, Mr. Schinitsky opened an office as Attorney in Charge of a new juvenile-rights division of the Legal Aid Society in New York. Within 10 years, he had built up a staff of 70 lawyers. He set up a system in which each staff lawyer met the juvenile client at his or her first court appearance and stayed with that client through every stage of the case and maintained an interest in the child's dealings with other institutions, including the schools and social-service agencies. And he put social workers on the staff to try to insure that children and their families received needed services.
        Mr. Schinitsky was born in New York. He received his undergraduate and law degrees from St. John's niversity. After law school graduation in 1941, he enlisted in the Army and served in the Pacific. He was eventually made a captain and toward the war's end, became a judge adjutant at camps for American-held prisoners.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a brother, Louis, of Miami.
      