
        Representative Frank Tejeda of Texas, a high school dropout who used the Marine Corps as a springboard out of the San Antonio slums and into an eventual seat in Congress, died on Thursday at the home of his former wife, Cecelia, in San Antonio. He was 51 and had represented the heavily Hispanic 28th District of south Texas as a Democrat since its creation in 1992.
        His family said the cause was pneumonia, a complication of treatment he had been receiving since surgery to remove a malignant brain tumor in September 1995.
        If there ever was a teen-ager headed for trouble, it was Frank Tejeda at 17. An indifferent student who cut classes to hang out with a tough gang in the hardscrabble South Side of San Antonio, he had no apparent prospects for a productive life.
        He dropped out of high school to join the Marines, and suddenly he was a young man on the rise. Before his stint was over, Mr. Tejeda had won a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart in Vietnam, received a high school equivalency diploma and maintained one of the highest grade-point averages ever recorded in Officer Candidate School.
        Then, as if to prove that his academic awakening was not a Marine Corps fluke, he graduated from St. Mary's University in San Antonio and received a law degree from the University of California at Berkeley, a master's degree in public administration from Harvard University and an advanced law degree from Yale.
        By the time he got his Yale degree in 1989, Mr. Tejeda was already a successful politician. As a leader of the South Side political coalition in San Antonio, he served a decade in the Texas House, then moved to the State Senate in 1986.
        The 28th District was created after the 1990 census to give Hispanic voters a majority, and by that time Mr. Tejeda was so popular that no one ran against him either in the primary or the general election.
        Even so, Mr. Tejeda campaigned hard. In Congress, mindful of both his Marines background and San Antonio's role as a center of military installations and defense industries, Mr. Tejeda became a champion of both veterans and those still enlisted in the service.
        Although he returned to work three weeks after his brain surgery in 1995, his health continued to be a problem. Partly because his office was so reticent about releasing medical information, it became a political issue last year.
        Mr. Tejeda, who insisted he would not have sought a third term if his doctors had not cleared him, won re-election. But after he was hospitalized with a back injury from a fall that his office said was not related to his previous illness, he was unable to attend the opening of the new Congress. Under the terms of a special House resolution, he was allowed to be sworn in in San Antonio.
        Gov. George W. Bush will set a date for a special election to fill the seat.
        Mr. Tejeda is survived by his mother, Lillie; three children, Marisa, Sonia and Frank; a sister, Mary Alice Lara, and three brothers, Juan, Richard and Ernest.
      