
        L. Royal Christensen, a microbiologist who pioneered important therapeutic techniques, including the now widespread use of the enzyme streptokinase to treat heart attacks, died on Saturday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 82.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Christensen received worldwide recognition when he and William S. Tillett, a fellow researcher at New York University School of Medicine, shared a Lasker Award in 1949. The award cited their contribution in discovering and purifying two enzymes, streptokinase and streptodornase, and demonstrating the enzymes' effectiveness in treatment of certain human diseases.
        Streptokinase, which is derived from certain streptococcal bacteria, is used in dissolving blood clots. Streptodornase, a related enzyme often used in combination with streptokinase, helps to dissolve secretions from infections.
        Dr. Tillett first came upon streptokinase during laboratory work in 1933; the discovery of streptodornase came years later. Dr. Christensen then managed to unlock the secrets of how their mechanisms work,  opening the way for general therapeutic application.
        A microbiologist with a penchant for biochemistry, Dr. Christensen undertook a persistent investigation to demonstrate that streptokinase, though usually inert, is made to function with the activation of another protein-digesting enzyme in blood plasma. He also described a method of purifying streptokinase, which permitted its successful use in patients.
        Certain diseases and injuries can lead to accumulations of dead tissue, pus and fibrin clots that delay or prevent healing. Until Dr. Christensen's technological enhancement of Dr. Tillett's discovery, such conditions often required a surgeon's knife for evacuation as well as major plastic surgery.
        Lauritz Royal Christensen was born in Everson, Wash. He graduated from the University of Washington with a major in bacteriology and earned a doctorate in that field at St. Louis University in 1941, the year he joined the N.Y.U. faculty.
        He was an assistant professor of microbiology at N.Y.U. College of Medicine-Bellevue Medical Center in 1953 when the university named him director of its new Berg Institute for Experimental Physiology, Surgery and Pathology, now the Berg Institute.
        He moved from there to Canada in 1967 as professor of medical biophysics at the University of Toronto, which was establishing a Division of Laboratory Animal Science in the medical school that year. Dr. Christensen was the first director of the division until his retirement in 1980.
        A leading epidemiologist, he came to Toronto with the reputation of a champion of international standards for the humane treatment of laboratory animals. The World Health Organization asked him to preside at its first symposium on the diseases of laboratory animal, which was held in Czechoslovakia in 1961.
        As the founding president of the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science, he received the Charles A. Griffin Award in 1973, its most prestigious professional recognition.
        He also was president of the Canadian Association for Laboratory Animal Science and received its Romain Robidoux Memorial award in 1979.
        Dr. Christensen is survived by his wife of 36 years, Ann Berliner Christensen; their daughter, Laurie M. Christensen, of Clinton, Conn.; two stepsons, David W. Bloom, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Dr. Jeff A. Bloom, of Toronto; a brother, Capt. Donald Christensen, of Coronado, Calif.; a sister, Margaret Leigh, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and a grandson.
      