
        Stanislav S. Shatalin, the Soviet economist who during the perestroika era was instrumental in promoting an economic plan to dismantle Communism, died today. He was 62.
        The Russian Academy of Sciences announced his death but did not disclose the cause. He had been in and out of hospitals for several years.
        Mr. Shatalin became famous almost overnight in 1990 after he led a team of reformers in drafting a plan for bold economic change known as ''500 Days'' for Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader.
        The plan, which among other things called for rapid stabilization of the budget, convertibility of the ruble, price decontrol and privatization, amounted to a 500-day demolition of the state-controlled economy.
        But Mr. Gorbachev, under pressure from Communist hard-liners withdrew his support and backed a more cautious approach crafted by a more conservative clique of advisers.
        Not long after his plan fell from favor, so did Mr. Shatalin. Stripped of his position in the Kremlin inner circle after the presidential council he served on was abolished, Mr. Shatalin became a harsh critic of Mr. Gorbachev after the Soviet leader ordered troops in Lithuania to quell the separatist movement there.
        Early on, Mr. Shatalin's plan had won the support of Boris N. Yeltsin.  After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and Mr. Yeltsin became President of the new Russia, he quickly put some of Mr. Shatalin's measures into effect. But younger, more radical economists like Grigory A. Yavlinsky, a co-author of the plan, eclipsed Mr. Shatalin on the political scene.
        Shock therapy and its devastating effect on millions of Russian workers and pensioners was deeply unpopular. When Mr. Shatalin in 1994 joined two other prominent Soviet-era economists in criticizing the Yeltsin Government's approach to privatization and monetary policy, he was roundly attacked by younger, more radical reformers, including his former student, Yegor T. Gaidar, a Prime Minister who was Mr. Yeltsin's main architect of radical economic reform.
        Mr. Shatalin tried to keep his hand in politics, becoming a co-founder of the political movement My Fatherland. In 1995, he briefly considered a run for the presidency in the 1996 elections.
        The privileged son of prominent Communists, he studied economics at Moscow State University and was a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences.
        In an interview in 1990, he explained his uphill battle to dismantle  Communism this way: ''What all this is about is that I want my grandchildren to think kindly of me, not to spit on my grave.''
        No information about survivors was immediately available.
      