
        Thomas C. Fichandler, a founder of the Arena Stage in Washington and the theater's executive director until his retirement in 1986, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Zelda Fichandler.
        The Arena Stage, created in 1950 by Mr. and Mrs. Fichandler and Edward Mangum, was from the first a principal force in the regional theater movement, and it remains one of the leading theater companies in the United States. During most of the Arena's existence, Mr. Fichandler ran the business side of the operation while Mrs. Fichandler was the artistic director.
        As a creative team, they won many honors, including the first Tony award given to a regional theater. The Fichandlers continued their professional partnership after they were separated in 1975.
        Mr. Fichandler was born in New York City. He graduated from Brooklyn College and later from George Washington University. Trained as an economist, he went to Washington in 1936 and worked for the Treasury Department. Then he became chief of the Actuarial Division for the Social Security Administration's unemployment insurance program.
        His office was in the building that also housed the National Theater, which was closed after a dispute over its policy of not allowing blacks to sit in the audience with whites. Mr. Fichandler joined the pickets outside the National, and when he and his wife opened the Arena Stage, it was the first integrated theater in Washington.
        The original home of the Arena was in a boat on the Potomac River, after which it moved to an abandoned movie theater and later a former brewery. In 1961, the company occupied a new, modern building near the Potomac. Mr. Fichandler was primarily responsible for planning the construction of the Arena and for raising the money to support it.
        Under the leadership of the Fichandlers, the Arena built a reputation for venturesome theater. It made its national reputation with such plays as ''The Great White Hope'' by Howard Sackler (which won the Pulitzer Prize for drama after it moved to Broadway) and ''Moonchildren'' by Michael Weller. The Arena was also known for the professionalism of its acting company. At the same time, the theater achieved financial stability, largely through Mr. Fichandler's efforts.
        Mr. Fichandler was active in the regional theater movement, as president of the League of Resident Theaters for six years and as a consultant to the Ford Foundation.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Hal, of Philadelphia and Mark, of New York City, and a grandson.
      