
        Percy Granger, a playwright who focused his sharp-edged wit on academia, television, advertising and other vulnerable subjects, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 51.
        He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his wife, MariElena. He had been unable to work since a previous cardiac arrest in 1992.
        Mr. Granger was the author of ''Eminent Domain,'' ''The Complete Works of Studs Edsel'' and many one-act plays. His short, pithy comedies consistently brightened the Ensemble Studio Theater's annual spring marathon. ''Scheherazade,'' in 1992, was a lunatic satire of life as soap opera and soap opera as it mirrors life.
        He was also a screenwriter and actor and taught playwriting at the 52d Street Project, a theater program in Manhattan for disadvantaged youngsters.
        Percival Harkness Granger 3d was born in Ithaca, N.Y. He graduated from Harvard magna cum laude in 1967 and began his career as an actor, but soon moved into playwriting. The partly autobiographical ''Studs Edsel,'' about an American law student, ''an idealist without faith'' who avoids the draft by fleeing to Canada, was staged at the Provincetown Playhouse in Massachusetts. Later it was done at the Folger Theater Group in Washington and at the Ensemble Studio.
        In common with his other plays, ''Eminent Domain'' went through an extensive creative process. It was first presented at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn. The subsequent production at the McCarter Theater Company in Princeton, N.J., in 1981 starred MacIntyre Dixon as Holmes Bradford, a charismatic and demanding college professor on a Midwestern campus. For all the disarray of his personal life, Bradford is the quintessential educator always alert to the possibility of discovering genius. When the play moved to Circle in the Square on Broadway, Philip Bosco took over the central role.
        Among Mr. Granger's other short plays are ''Vivien,'' a sensitive double portrait of a father and son (performed at the Mitzi E. Newhouse at Lincoln Center with a cast headed by James Woods) and ''The Dolphin Position,'' about a high-flying adman attacked by amnesia.
        In September 1992, when a full-length version of ''The Dolphin Position'' was about to open at Primary Stages in Manhattan, Mr. Granger was riding his bicycle to the theater with script revisions when he suddenly had a cardiac arrest. Taken to a hospital, he was in a coma for four days. After he regained consciousness, he was partly rehabilitated but was never able to resume his career. His last play, ''Coyote Hangin' on a Barbed Wire Fence,'' had been scheduled to open at Circle in the Square in 1993, but was canceled.
        His screenplays include ''My Brother's Wife'' (adapted from ''The Middle Ages'' by A. R. Gurney) and ''The Comeback.'' He was a writer for the daytime soap operas ''Loving'' and ''As the World Turns,''  which laid the groundwork for ''Scheherazade,'' his mirthful look at life behind the television cameras.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Andrew and James.
      