
        Dr. Robert H. Dicke, who predicted the discovery of the Big Bang echo, conducted classic experiments in gravity and for a time was a chief challenger to Einstein's general theory of relativity, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Princeton University, where he was the Albert Einstein University Professor of Science. Dr. Dicke was widely respected, both as a theorist and as a meticulous experimenter. Numerous experiments in space and the laboratory were devised by him and others to test his propositions, including the Brans-Dicke theory of gravity.
        Dr. Dicke was an early believer in the Big Bang theory of the creation of the universe, and he theorized that a microwave echo of that event might persist to the present day. He was building a radio antenna to test that idea when two other investigators, Drs. Robert Wilson and Arno A. Penzias, discovered the echo by accident. They were later awarded a Nobel Prize, in which Dr. Dicke did not share, and some physicists thought that Dr. Dicke had been unfairly excluded.
        In a biographical article in the journal Mercury in 1994, Dr. Jack B. Zirker, a leading solar astronomer, said, ''Since Nobel Prizes are given only for discoveries, not interpretations, Dicke received only the admiration of his colleagues.''
        Another leading astrophysicist, Dr. John N. Bahcall of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, said yesterday that Dr. Dicke ''made an incredible range of contributions to many different aspects of physics, astrophysics and cosmology. The most difficult problem for the Nobel committee would have been deciding which of his many achievements most warranted a prize.''
        Some of Dr. Dicke's physicist colleagues gathered at a luncheon in Princeton yesterday to reminisce and celebrate his career. A memorial will be announced later, said his wife, the former Annie Currie.
      