
        Richard F. Marsh, whose research in veterinary science at the University of Wisconsin at Madison led him to sound an alarm about the risks of mad cow disease a decade before the outbreak of the disease in Britain last year, died on Sunday at his home in Middleton, Wis. He was 58.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Bert Mitchell, associate director of the Center for Veterinary Medicine in the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., credited Dr. Marsh with bringing up the possibility in 1985 that the disease could pass from animal to animal through tissue used in feed.
        In his research, Dr. Marsh observed diseases in minks and learned from a mink rancher that the animals had been fed with a food supplement made from cattle parts. He theorized there was a pathway for transmission of cattle diseases that the industry was unaware of and urged a ban on such feeding.
        The disease, mink spongiform encephalopathy, destroys brain tissue in a manner similar to the way mad cow disease affects cattle.
        He lived to see the first steps toward a Federal ban on the feeding of tissue from cud-chewing animals, or ruminants, like cattle and sheep, to other ruminants. The ban is expected to become law by this summer, Federal officials said.
        The mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, has been tentatively linked to the fatal Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a variant of which British experts have confirmed in about a dozen cases.
        A colleague at Wisconsin, Dr. Judd Aiken, said Dr. Marsh had alerted the veterinary field to the virtual impossibility of killing, by sterilizing the tissue used in animal feed, the agent that is believed to cause mad cow disease.
        ''He showed these things are iron-clad agents,'' Dr. Aiken said.
        He said Dr. Marsh had shown that the symptoms of these cattle diseases were slow in developing. An infected calf can look normal, perhaps for as long as five to eight years without a signal of the dangerous agents, until a mature cow begins to stagger or become aggressive. So Dr. Marsh lobbied for a ban even in absence of symptoms in cattle.
        Dr. Marsh received a doctorate in veterinary medicine from Washington State University in 1963. He worked at the United States Public Health Service from 1968 to 1970, then joined the University of Wisconsin, working there until his death.
        Dr. Marsh is survived by his wife of 37 years, Helene; four daughters, Kathryn Latham of Boston; Jeanette Marsh of Madison, Christine McLaughlin of Oshkosh, Wis., Deanna Beyler of Madison, and a son, Timothy, of Santa Catalina Island, Calif.; a sister, Kathleen Race, of Vancouver, Wash., and three grandchildren.
      