
        Dr. Pierre M. Galletti, a leading researcher on artificial organs and tissue engineering who helped found the Brown University School of Medicine, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Providence and Little Compton, R.I.
        The cause was head trauma from a fall on Thursday, said Sandra Jolly, Dr. Galletti's secretary at Brown.
        Dr. Galletti also advised the Federal Government on topics like artificial organs and biomaterials, said  Dr. Louis Sullivan, president of the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta and a former Secretary of Health and Human Services.
        An associate professor at Brown, Dr. Michael Lysaght, said Dr. Galletti was involved in advances in many fields, including organ replacement, hemodialysis and the designing of heart valves and pacemakers.
        Dr. Galletti also worked on developing and evaluating biohybrid materials in which natural cells and tissues are grown on a polymer matrix for use in applications like artificial organs or repairing damaged blood vessels, Dr. Lysaght said.
        He was born on June 11, 1927 in Monthey, Switzerland. He received an undergraduate degree from St. Maurice College in 1945 and a medical degree in 1951 and a doctorate in physiology and biophysics in 1954, both from the University of Lausanne. n 1957 he moved to Los Angeles as a research fellow at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital and joined the faculty of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta a year later.
        He moved to Brown in 1967 as a professor of medicine. A year later he was named chairman of the new division of biological and medical sciences. From 1972 to 1991, he was vice president of the biology and medicine division, which was created to oversee the founding of the medical school.
        Dr. Galletti became an American citizen in 1969.
        In 1988, he was one of four founding scientists of Cellular Transplants Inc., a biotechnology company in Providence that is now named Cytotherapeutics Inc., and he was involved with many other biotechnology companies. After retiring in 1991, he continued to teach medicine at Brown and was head of the artificial organ laboratory there.
        From 1968 to 1978, he was editor in chief of the journal Cardiology and held the same post at The Journal of the American Society for Artificial Internal Organs from 1978 to 1985.
        Surviving are his wife, Sonia, and a son, Marc Henri.
      