
        Ella Maillart, a Swiss sportswoman, adventurer, travel writer and photographer who defied convention, hardship and international borders to explore forbidden territory and forbidding terrain, died on Thursday in her mountain chalet in Chandolin, Switzerland. She was 94.
        She was the author of ''Forbidden Journey,'' an account of her 1935 trek to the closed city of Sinkiang in Chinese Turkestan.
        During a life in which she was variously a French teacher in Wales, a secretary, a traveling saleswoman, an Olympic sailer, a competitive skier, a pioneer field hockey player, an actress, a sculptor's model and a movie stuntwoman, Ms. Maillart seemed most comfortable on the frontiers of social convention and  Western civilization.
        The daughter of a well-to-do Geneva furrier and his athletic Danish  wife, Ms. Maillart grew up rich and restless.
        An accomplished athlete who founded Switzerland's first women's field hockey club and was a member of the Swiss sailing team in the 1924 Olympics, Ms. Maillart was initially drawn to the sea.
        She was a familiar figure on the Mediterranean in the 1920's and 30's and became something of a sensation in England after the commander of the British Mediterranean Fleet received an official reprimand because the entire fleet missed lights out while the Admiral entertained Ms. Maillart and three other yachtswomen.
        She had to abandon a plan to sail the South Pacific with an all-female crew when her childhood sailing companion fell ill.
        Instead, after a brief film career in Berlin in 1930, she went to Moscow, then walked across the Caucasus Mountains, tried to put together a women's field hockey team in Russia and rowed for a team called the Alimentation Workers' Eight.
        A 1932 trip to Russian Turkestan whetted her appetite for Asian travel. An introduction to a Paris publisher by a noted yachtsman she had met on the Riviera helped her combine her wanderlust with professional purpose and led to two books, ''Turkestan Solo'' and ''Among Russian Youth: From Moscow to the Caucasus.''
        In a 1993 interview with MarBy Blume in The International Herald Tribune, Ms. Maillart attributed her yearning for travel to her disgust with the horrors of World War I.
        ''I wanted to leave Europe,'' she said, ''go as far as possible.''
        Ms. Maillart, whose travel credo was ''Nobody can go? Then I shall go,'' was so determined to go where few Western men and virtually no women had gone before that she was willing to endure almost any hardship.
        For her most famous journey, a harrowing 7-month, 3,500-mile trek from Beijing to Kashmir through  Chinese Turkestan in 1935, she set off with two pounds of marmalade, a  rifle, a bottle of Worcestershire  sauce, writing paper, a Leica camera and an unwieldy companion -- Peter Fleming, a Times of London correspondent and Ian Fleming's younger brother.
        Both would have preferred to travel alone, but Ms. Maillart, knowing that foreigners were barred from the warlord-controlled territory, decided it might not be a bad idea to have a companion along in case she landed in prison.
        Mr. Fleming, an acknowledged travel amateur, got the better part of the bargain: a companion who could design and make a tent, cook outdoors in freezing winds, sew and walk 14 miles without eating, and, as it happened, who was willing to wash his clothes as well as hers.
        Or as he put it in his account of the journey, ''News Tartary,'' ''It was she, and not I, who did the dirty work.''
        In the inevitable comparisons of their separate accounts of the journey, Mr. Fleming was considered the more elegant writer.
        Ms. Maillart's book, a straightforward, workmanlike account of exactly what she saw, was written for the ages. In a thousand years, for example, her description of a child and newborn lambs on a yurt floor thick with their droppings will remain as authoritative an account of what things were like in Turkestan in 1935 as her photographs. Taken as notes, not as art, they were featured in a 1993 Paris exhibition.
        Ms. Maillart, who often traveled alone -- on foot, on horseback, or by camel -- made another concession for a 1947 trek with a sick, morphine-addicted friend. She called the resulting book ''The Cruel Way: Two Women and a Ford in Afghanistan.''
        Ms. Maillart, who leaves no immediate survivors, continued to travel, largely for her own amusement. But in recent years she cut back on her travels: She made her last trip to Tibet when she was 83 and had not traveled abroad since a visit to Goa three years ago.
      