
        Lars Bergstrom, an aeronautical wizard whose personal affinity for boats led to many design innovations in yachts as well as airplanes, died last Sunday when an experimental glider he was testing crashed about two miles from the airport at Wauchula, Fla. He was 62.
        The craft appeared to have gone into a flat spin that caused Mr. Bergstrom, who was alone in the craft, to lose control of it, Mary Bergstrom, his wife, said last Tuesday from their home in Sarasota, Fla.
        Mr. Bergstrom and his partner, Sven Ridder, a boyhood friend from Sweden, redesigned sailboat rigs, rudders and keels. The Windex, a wind indicator that measures the apparent wind generated by a boat's movement across water, was their invention.
        Mr. Bergstrom was a member of a three-man crew that in 1989 shaved 10 days from a 135-year-old clipper ship record. The team sailed from New York to San Francisco in 80 days aboard Thursday's Child, a 60-foot monohull built by Hunter Marine of Alachua, Fla.
        Also on the trip was Warren Luhrs, president of Hunter and a world-class solo sailor. ''He set the standard of what could be done with an open-class monohull,'' Mr. Luhrs said. ''All of a sudden, monohulls were not just going 9 to 10 knots, they were sailing at 15 knots and more.''
        Mr. Bergstrom moved to the United States in the mid-1970's. With Mr. Ridder, he founded two consulting firms in Sarasota -- B & R Designs, and B & R Mast and Rigging -- to oversee developments in airplane and boat construction.
        Mr. Bergstrom experimented with winged keels for sailboats in 1968, 15 years before the controversial winged keel on the 12-Meter Australia II upset the course of America's Cup yacht racing. In recent years, he created an innovative rig for cruising sailboats. He also developed a new tripod setup for supporting a sailboat mast and came up with the Wingdex, a pivoting wing for shallow-draft sailboats.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters from a former marriage, Kristin and Johanna, both of Sarasota, and by his mother, Lilly, of Stangnas, Sweden.
      