
        Carlo Fassi, a prominent coach who guided four figure skaters, including Peggy Fleming and Dorothy Hamill, to Olympic gold medals, died today of a heart attack. He was 67.
        Mr. Fassi died at the 1997 world championships only hours before one of his skaters, Cornel Gheorghe of Romania, was to compete in the men's long program. His most prominent current skater, the 1995 American champion Nicole Bobek, will compete Friday in the women's short program.
        ''It's a tragedy,'' Ms. Bobek, who is 19, said tonight. ''I know he's here with us. He was always there for me. He always cared. He took the place of being a father for me.''
        This morning here at the Malley Sports Center, Mr. Fassi complained of indigestion, American figure skating officials said. Just before noon, while accompanied by his wife and fellow coach, Christa Fassi, he grew dizzy and collapsed, witnesses said. He was taken by ambulance to the Canton Hospital-University Vaud. He was pronounced dead at 2:30 P.M.
        Mr. Fassi was diabetic but had no history of heart problems, said Heather Linhart of the United States Figure Skating Association.
        A native of Milan, Italy, Mr. Fassi won a bronze medal at the 1953 world championships and gold medals at the European championships in 1953 and 1954. After 18 of the best American skaters and a number of their family members, coaches, officials and judges died in a plane crash en route to the 1961 world championships in Prague, Mr. Fassi was invited to the United States to help rebuild the country's skating program. He later became an American citizen.
        By 1968, he had produced his first Olympic champion, Ms. Fleming. Eight years later, Ms. Hamill won the 1976 Olympic gold medal. She and Mr. Fassi later had a falling out over a financial disagreement. Also in 1976, another student of Mr. Fassi's, John Curry of Britain, won the men's Olympic gold medal. Four years later, Mr. Fassi coached Robin Cousins of Britain to another Olympic title.
        ''I owe him so much,'' Ms. Fleming said today in Lausanne, where she is working as a commentator for ABC television. ''He was like your father, your mentor, your strength when you didn't feel you could do it. He always brought out the best in me, like no one else has ever done.''
        Said Mr. Cousins, a commentator for the BBC: ''As far as I'm concerned, we've lost one of the greatest skating coaches who ever lived. I would not have won an Olympic gold medal or even been in contention if it had not been for that man.''
        As a coach, Mr. Fassi used his fluency in English, Italian, German and French to make sure that judges treated his skaters fairly. This was especially helpful in the arcane discipline of compulsory figures, the tedious figure-8 tracings that once counted as much as 50 percent of a skater's total score. The figures were eliminated seven years ago.
        ''A lot of people know how to cut diamonds, but very few know how to polish them,'' Mr. Cousins said. ''Carlo made you feel you were the best diamond you could be, whether you were a novice or Olympic champion. He could make you feel the performance you were about to do with him was the best performance you could do in the world.''
        At the United States championships last month, Ms. Bobek finished sixth in the short program and appeared out of contention for a spot on the American team for the world championships.
        ''What are you going to do in your long program?'' Mr. Fassi asked the skater.
        ''I don't know,'' Ms. Bobek replied. ''I'll figure it out when I get there.''
        He let her do what she thought best, which was to reduce the number of planned triple jumps from seven to four, to stay on her feet and to impress the judges with her artistry. It was a brilliant strategy, as Ms. Bobek advanced to third place and qualified for the world event.
        Mr. Cousins coached Ms. Bobek at a short practice this evening. Later, Ms. Bobek stood at rinkside in support as Mr. Gheorghe competed. Before Mr. Fassi died, Ms. Bobek said, he apparently requested that his wife, Christa, coach her on Friday.
        ''If you have to have a tragedy, an actor wants to be on stage, a movie star wants to be on the set,'' Mr. Cousins said. ''For this to happen to Carlo at the world championships is uncanny. All we can hope is that the skaters take the passion he left them with and drive through the rest of the week.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fassi, who lived in Lake Arrowhead, Calif., is survived by two sons, Lorenzo and Ricardo, and a daughter, Monica.
      