
        Frederick Tirrell Allen, a former chairman and chief executive of Pitney Bowes Inc. in Stamford, Conn., died on Thursday at Stamford Hospital. Mr. Allen, a resident of Greenwich, Conn., was 80.
        His death was caused by complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Charlotte-Ann MacIntyre Allen, said.
        Mr. Allen retired in 1982 after working for 45 years at Pitney Bowes, which manufactures postage metering machines and other equipment. He joined the company as a production manager in 1938 after graduation from Brown University. In 1969, he became president and chief operating officer and four years later was named chairman and chief executive.
        While Mr. Allen was head of the company, Pitney Bowes expanded into sales of computer and office supplies, fax machine manufacturing and a financial services unit to accommodate office equipment leasing for its clients. In 1981, the company introduced its Postage by Phone product, which allows customers to refill their postage meters by using a telephone menu instead of carrying part of the machine to a post office window. That year, his last with the company, Pitney Bowes earned more than $69 million on revenues of $1.4 billion.
        Mr. Allen is also credited with helping to promote Stamford and Fairfield County as a location for corporate headquarters, in part by planning Pitney Bowes's new headquarters, completed in the mid- 1980's, for the economically depressed south end of Stamford. The company's presence brought stability to the area in difficult times. Mr. Allen was also active in local development and charity, serving as director of the Stamford Economic Assistance Corporation, the Connecticut Economic Development Corporation and the regional divisions of the United Way.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Allen is survived by his sons, Frederick T. Allen Jr. of Monroe, Conn., William Cameron Allen of Norwalk, Conn., and Richard MacIntyre Allen of Brookfield, Conn.; his daughter, Kathleen Allen Smith of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and 10 grandchildren.
      