
        Eamonn Doran, an Irish barman who turned a long-running run-in with American immigration authorities into a rollicking career as one of New York City's most popular and successful pub owners, died on Sunday in a hospital in Dublin. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan.
        His friends said the cause was kidney failure.
        In a city where the term ''Irish bar'' is almost a tautology, Eamonn Doran on Second Avenue near 53d Street has long been known as the most Irish of them all, a place where the brogues are as fresh as the latest Aer Lingus landing.
        That was because the perpetually smiling proprietor was an unusually generous and gregarious man, quick with a loan and quick to greet strangers as old friends, especially if they had just arrived from Ireland.
        ''He never forgot where he came from,'' is the way his friend, Terry Moran, put it, noting that Mr. Doran had been born in Athboy in County Meath, where his mother's family had operated a pub for generations.
        After graduating from Rockland College in Ireland, Mr. Doran (dore-AN in the United States; DUR-un in Ireland) sold cars in Dublin until he went to New York in 1971, overstaying his six-month tourist visa but hardly his welcome.
        As an illegal immigrant in a city whose employers tended to overlook such details, particularly for hard-working sons and daughters of Ireland with a willingness to work off the books, he quickly got a job as a bartender at P. J. Moran's and began charming a coterie of regulars who followed him when he opened his own bar a few years later.
        As his friends were telling it, cashing a check for a friend proved to be his undoing as a bartender. When the check bounced and Mr. Doran pressed him for the money, the friend was so irritated he called the Bob Grant radio program and denounced Mr. Doran as an undocumented alien illegally holding a job  and running guns for the Irish Republican Army.
        Arrested at his job and taken away in handcuffs, Mr. Doran quickly put the lie to the fanciful gun-running accusation, but had no legal claim to remain in the United States. Taking full advantage of due process, he remained free while the case wound its tortuous and somewhat mysterious way through the administrative procedures of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.
        Advised that he would be in a better position to avoid deportation if he owned a business, Mr. Doran, who had no trouble finding backers, simply opened a bar of his own.
        The legal fight over two decades caused considerable personal distress. Because he would not have been allowed to re-enter the United States if he had left while the case was pending, and because his wife, Clare, who had taken their two young sons back to Ireland, was similarly barred from returning, Mr. Doran was separated from his family for many years.
        Immigration officials are prohibited from discussing cases, but it was hardly surprising that Mr. Doran finally won. Over the years he befriended many prominent people in New York and Ireland and raised much money for local charities, particularly through the charity golf tournaments he organized for the New York Foundling Hospital.
        As one supporter, Dominic Kiernan, the Lord Mayor of Wexford, recalled at the bar on Tuesday, when Mr. Doran made his first trip to Ireland after getting his green card in 1991 he was greeted as a hero at a party in Dublin attended by 600 of his closest friends.
        Mr. Doran, who eventually opened two more bars in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn Heights, also added an Eamonn Doran in Dublin.
        The emerald of his eye, however, remained the Second Avenue establishment. Although it attracts patrons of varied nationalities, including, for some reason, a cadre of Australian revelers, it has always been a special haven for newcomers from Ireland. Mindful of their interests, Mr. Doran installed a satellite hookup for broadcasts of Irish football and hurling matches, which explains why the bar is sometimes crowded at 8:30 A.M.
        Richard Harris and other visiting entertainers became virtual fixtures, and Mr. Doran was so popular with Irish musicians that regulars, who recall the night they first met the members of an unknown rock group called U2, never knew when the Chieftains would stop by and break into song.
        On Monday, the Chieftains dedicated their annual St. Patrick's Day concert at Carnegie Hall to Mr. Doran, and on Tuesday, faithful to an old tradition, his friends gathered at the bar to toast him on what would have been his 59th birthday.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Dermot and Edward, both of Manhattan and Dublin; three brothers, Father Dermot of Toronto, Billy of Dublin and Paddy of Limerick, and a sister, Mary of England.
      