
        Robert J. Lampman, a leading researcher on poverty, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 76.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said.
        As an economist at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Mr. Lampman pioneered efforts to measure income distribution. He is probably best known for his work on the staff of President John F. Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisers. ''He was the intellectual architect of the war on poverty,'' said James Tobin, the Nobel economist at Yale who was a member of the council at the time.
        Mr. Lampman was born in Plover, Wis., where his father was a high school teacher. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin in 1942, he served as a naval air navigator in the Pacific during World War II, and then returned to Madison for graduate training. He earned a doctorate in labor economics under the tutelage of Edwin Witte, the New Deal activist who drafted the Social Security Act.
        For a decade, Mr. Lampman taught at the University of Washington and researched income distribution. In 1958, he was appointed professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin, which remained his academic base thereafter.
        Walter Heller, a colleague of Mr. Lampman's in graduate school and chairman of President Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisers, brought him to Washington in 1962. While on the staff of the council, Mr. Lampman warned the White House that rapid economic growth alone would not eliminate poverty. Mr. Heller's liberal activism and Mr. Lampman's knowledge of the issues proved a good fit: the chapter on poverty in the 1964 Economic Report of the President, which was written by Mr. Lampman, provided the blueprint for the Johnson Administration's antipoverty initiative.
        When he returned to the University of Wisconsin in the mid-1960's, he brought with him Federal financing for a permanent center to monitor the antipoverty effort. But he remained politically active, pressing for a ''negative income tax'' or guaranteed annual income for the poor. That movement eventually bore fruit in the earned-income tax credit.
        Mr. Lampman was also a popular educator, quick to share credit with students and colleagues.
        Mr. Lampman is survived by his wife, JoAnn; three sons, Jonathan, of Nanaimo, British Columbia, James, of Bismarck, N.D., and Thomas, of Anchorage; a daughter, Rebecca, of Olympia, Wash.; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      