
        Nenad Dusan Popovic, a leading economic expert in Tito's Communist Yugoslavia who defected in 1961 to teach and write in exile at Syracuse University, died on Feb. 25 of bone cancer at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87.
        Professor Popovic was chief of economic affairs in the Yugoslav Foreign Ministry when he took refuge, making him one of the highest-ranking Yugoslav officials to defect to the West. Part of his mission was to negotiate loans and credits for the Yugoslav Government.
        By his own account he had become thoroughly disillusioned with the Communist system and had planned a getaway with his family for some years. Once securely in this country, he accepted a professorship at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse.
        He taught comparative socialist and Western economics and the economics of less-developed countries. He received emeritus status as professor of international political economy in 1975 but continued to teach until about 10 years ago.
        He wrote in Serbo-Croatian and English, translating the authors Louis Bromfield and Somerset Maugham into his native tongue.
        In 1968 he published ''Yugoslavia: The New Class in Crisis,'' an echo of Milovan Djilas's caustic analysis of a self-perpetuating upper crust in an ostensibly classless system. In Mr. Popovic's version, power began to shift from clique to Communist clique with the entire system bound to crumble.
        Nenad Popovic was born in Sremska Mitrovica, Serbia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. He received a law degree from Belgrade University in 1932 and started a career as a banker and banking writer during the period of political turmoil between the world wars.
        The experience, he said later, left him dazzled by the social revolution in the Soviet Union. He joined the Communist Party, sub rosa, before World War II and spent most of the war as a German prisoner, only to be shunned by the Communists because of his bourgeois upbringing.
        Among other sins, he was a godson of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary, whose assassination in 1914 in Sarajevo touched off World War I.
        Though he was banished from the Communist Party, connections nonetheless allowed Mr. Popovic to write under a pseudonym for the party newspaper Borba until his column's popularity brought him official rehabilitation.
        He served as an economic planner and vice president of the State Economic Council of Serbia, then part of Yugoslavia, before being detached in 1950 to the International Monetary Fund in Washington. He was also among the experts at the United Nations and in Paris who set up the International Development Agency and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Tatyana; two daughters, Gina Goldhammer and Sanya Popovic-Bogdanich, both of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      