
        William Joseph Cahill Jr., the nuclear engineering executive whom the New York Power Authority brought back in 1994 to fix the trouble-prone generators he had helped build for Con Edison decades earlier, died Feb. 26 at a Dallas hospital. He was 73 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and St. Francisville, La.
        He apparently suffered a heart attack while riding to a hotel from Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, the Power Authority reported. He was in Texas as a consultant for Texas Utilities, a former employer.
        The New York Power Authority announced a month ago that Mr. Cahill, a 40-year veteran of the industry, was stepping down as its chief nuclear officer while remaining available as a consultant to the authority and others in the industry. The agency put him in charge of its nuclear-power program in April 1994 when it was having difficulties with its generating plants, Indian Point 3 in Westchester County and James A. FitzPatrick in Oswego County.
        At the time Federal regulators listed the two plants among the worst-run in the country in 1993. The problem, they said, was bad management, not the age of the equipment.
        FitzPatrick, in Scriba, N.Y., came off the list in 1994. Indian Point 3 at Buchanan, N.Y., emerged from a six-month shutdown a year ago, when it was reported on the mend after a three-year rebuilding.
        Jack Murphy, a spokesman for the New York Power Authority, said recently that FitzPatrick was taken out of service for refueling in 1966 for 47 days, the shortest and most effective such down-time in its history. Both FitzPatrick and Indian Point 3 are currently performing at about 100 percent of their capacity, he said.
        The agency credited Mr. Cahill with the substantial progress shown at both plants.
        He was born in Stony Point, N.Y., and graduated in mechanical engineering from Polytechnic University (then Institute) of Brooklyn in 1949. He started his career that year with the Consolidated Edison Company.
        He held various engineering posts and took part in the licensing, design, construction and operation of the nuclear generating plants at Indian Point. He helped design Indian Point 1 at Buchanan, the nation's first civilian nuclear power plant.
        It began operation in 1962 but became an economic liability in the mid-1970's for want of up-to-date safety equipment and was decommissioned in 1980. Gazing at its low, rounded dome that snowy February day, Mr. Cahill commented, ''It's the end of the beginning.''
        He left in 1980 as a vice president and became a senior vice president for the Gulf State Utilities Company of St. Francisville, La. In 1988 he joined Texas Utilities as group vice president for nuclear production and oversaw the commissioning of its two-unit Comanche Peak Nuclear Project in 1990 and 1993.
        Mr. Cahill is survived by his wife of 43 years, Edna Kiernan Cahill; a son, William E., of Deer Park, L.I.; two daughters, Kathleen, of Catskill, N.Y., and Madeleine, of Hadley, Mass.; a sister, Gloria Fetterhoff of Harrisburg, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      