
        Sherle Wagner, a designer whose company, Sherle Wagner International Inc., became synonymous with luxury bathroom fixtures, accessories and hardware, died of heart failure on March 14 in Palm Beach, Fla., his son-in-law, Vincent Geoffroy, said this week. Mr. Wagner was 79.
        The son of a building contractor, Mr. Wagner never graduated from college and did not get his start in plumbing.
        Instead, in 1945 he started a business in New York with his wife, the former Rose Lichtstein, making closet accessories. Then the couple moved into towel rings and towel bars, and finally to bathrooms, with the introduction of their first plumbing product: a basin set featuring a dolphin-type spout and 24-karat gold plating.
        That product was so well received that Mr. Wagner began to develop other bathroom accessories, moving ''little by little,'' as he once told an interviewer, ''toward completing the ultimate luxury bathroom.''
        The gold dolphin faucets remain part of a company product list that over the years expanded to the limits of Mr. Wagner's imagination, from malachite bathroom fittings to hand-painted porcelain wash basins and sinks in Italian marble.
        ''He created a unique niche in the luxury bathroom market through the combination of imagination and creativity,'' Herbert V. Kohler, chairman and president of the Kohler Company, a major plumbing manufacturer, said in a statement.
        ''He was an entrepreneur who transformed his artistic ideas to commonplace objects.''
        Mr. Wagner's client list included former President Richard M. Nixon, a number of movie and rock stars and wealthy businessmen like Sid Bass.
        In the 1980's, a time when opulence was in season, Adnan Khashoggi, the Saudi arms merchant, installed Wagner bathroom fixtures on his yacht. King Hussein of Jordan did the same thing when he built his own train.
        By the middle to late 1980's, major manufacturers like Kohler began to move seriously into the market niche that Mr. Wagner had occupied for the better part of 30 years.
        In 1989, he sold Sherle Wagner International, which is based at 57th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan, to Masco Inc., a $2 billion home products company, for an undisclosed sum.
        Even after the sale, Mr. Wagner, who maintained homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, remained active in the business until his death.
        In addition to his wife, Rose, survivors include a brother, Laurence Wagner of Riverdale, the Bronx; a sister, Sylvia Feinstein of New Rochelle, N.Y.; three children, Linda W. Geoffroy of New Canaan, Conn; Paul L. Wagner of Sherborn, Mass., and Amy Wagner of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      