
        Leonard Buder, who specialized in the coverage of education during his 41 years as a reporter for The New York Times, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 69 and lived in New Milford, Conn.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, his wife, Renee, said.
        In the course of his career, Mr. Buder reported on most of the major events in education, including the 1955 White House Conference on Education, school desegregation in the North and South, teachers' strikes and the bitter battle over school decentralization in New York City.
        In the turmoil surrounding decentralization in 1968, the city's schools were closed for 55 days, the police were called out and relations between blacks and Jews deteriorated amid charges of racism and anti-Semitism that left scars, some of which still linger.
        Mr. Buder's work won him more than a dozen major journalism awards.
        In 1961, his exposure of corruption in New York City's school construction program prompted a special session of the State Legislature that resulted in the ouster of the Board of Education. His articles won the New York Newspaper Guild's Page One Award, the Sigma Delta Chi Deadline Club Award for outstanding public service, the Society of Silurians Award for spot news reporting and other prizes.
        He was also part of a special team that surveyed national political trends in the mid-1950's, and at various times he covered police and crime news, including the capture in 1977 of David Berkowitz, the killer known as the Son of Sam, and a long battle for a South Bronx heroin empire.
        With Gene I. Maeroff, Mr. Buder was an author of ''The New York Times Guide to Suburban Public Schools,'' published in 1976. He also served three terms as president of the Education Writers Association and was elected president of the New York Press Club in 1982.
        Mr. Buder was born in Brooklyn, attended its public schools and attended New York University. In 1944, when he was 17, he joined The Times as a copy boy.
        After a year of Army service when he was 18, Mr. Buder returned to The Times. He became an office assistant in 1948 and was promoted to reporter in 1949.
        ''I was only supposed to stay in education for a few weeks and then move into some other area,'' he said in a 1976 interview. ''But once I got into education, I found myself reporting on what I considered -- and still consider now -- to be the most vital of all fields. I decided to make this my career.''
        He retired in 1990.
        Mr. Buder is survived by his wife of 43 years, the former Renee Cantor; a daughter, Jane Buder Shapiro of Cleveland, a son, Jon Jay of Springfield, Va., and three grandchildren.
      