
        Dan E. Sweat Jr., a self-styled Federal bagman and municipal whipping boy who spent 30 years whipping Atlanta into modern shape as its premier civic administrator, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Atlanta. He was 63 and had been suffering from stomach cancer.
        On paper, Mr. Sweat was never more than a high-profile functionary -- administrative assistant to Atlanta mayors, point man for the city's powerful downtown business interests and, later, coordinator of Jimmy Carter's ambitious urban cure-all known as the Atlanta Project.
        Yet Mr. Sweat proved so adept at negotiating the city's political thicket and so adroit at securing Federal money for the myriad projects he dreamed up, designed and implemented for his patrons that he put his own stamp on the city.
        Among other things, Mr. Sweat, who once described his job as ''hustling Federal money,'' was credited with rescuing the Chattahoochee River and preserving the city's water supply, transforming an abandoned downtown tract into an integrated, mixed-income residential communiy, and spearheading programs intended to bring the city's black and white leaders together.
        Along the way, he recruited and trained so many administrators that there is hardly a civic agency in the city without one of his proteges at the helm or in a high position.
        Over the years, Mr. Sweat became so closely identified with virtually every facet of Atlanta's drive to put its racist past behind it and become a modern, enlightened city that it was easy to forget that he was not an Atlanta native but a railroad machinist's son from Waycross, Ga.
        Or, as Mr. Sweat liked to put it when he was in an aw-shucks mood, he was an ''old boy from the Okefenokee'' who arrived in Atlanta on a Greyhound bus in 1952, at the age of 18, and never stopped referring to his adopted city as ''up here.''
        Originally aiming for a career in journalism, Mr. Sweat enrolled in night courses at Georgia State University and took a daytime job as a reporter for The Atlanta Journal, but because the school had no journalism major, he graduated with a degree in public administration.
        After a three-year stint as a naval officer, he returned to his job at The Journal, but he soon left to become the spokesman for the DeKalb County Commission chairman, Charles Emmerich, a legendary local reformer who was so impressed with Mr. Sweat that he quickly made him his chief administrative assistant.
        After Mr. Emmerich's defeat in 1964, Mr. Sweat became associate executive director of Economic Opportunity Atlanta, an agency formed to attract and distribute Federal antipoverty money. So much of that money came in during Mr. Sweat's tenure that he was soon hired away by Mayor Ivan Allen Jr. as Atlanta's chief administrative officer, a post he also held under Mr. Allen's successor, Sam Massell.
        After a year as executive director of the Atlanta Regional Commission in 1972, Mr. Sweat began a 15-year-run as president of Central Atlanta Progress, an association of downtown business leaders.
        Under Mr. Sweat's direction, the association attacked Atlanta's problems on a broad front, stimulating construction, reclaiming the downtown area as a residential district and working with community groups on an array of programs to establish and strengthen ties between black and white Atlanta.
        For Mr. Sweat, a tireless administrator who often worked long hours, it was not always smooth sailing.
        A sometimes brusque man who could be impatient with municipal bureaucracy, Mr. Sweat, who made a career cutting through red tape, was often a lightning rod for criticism and had some monumental battles with city officials, including the city's first black Mayor, Maynard H. Jackson Jr. He once went so far as to bar a City Hall doorway to keep Mr. Jackson from storming out of a meeting.
        Mr. Sweat, who left the association in 1988 to run a local foundation, was hired in 1991 by Mr. Carter to run the Atlanta Project, which seeks to solve virtually every urban problem through cooperative efforts of business and community groups. He remained until 1995.
        He is survived by his mother, Kathleen Sweat of Waverly, Ga.,; his wife, Tally; a daughter, Sally, of Waverly; two sons, Stephen, of Atlanta and Charles, of LaGrange, Ga.; five sisters, Elouise McCrary of Brunswick, Ga., Ruth Lopez of High Springs, Fla., and Merle Kimbrell, Linda Strickland and Vivian Ragan, all of Waverly, and four grandchildren.
      