
        Harold Osrow, an entrepreneur who couldn't leave well enough alone until he was satisfied he had made it better, cheaper or more convenient, died on March 20 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A resident of Dix Hills, L.I., he was 80 and had been chairman of Osrow Products, the company he founded to produce an array of novel household items he had helped tinker into being.
        His family said the cause was lung cancer.
        In an age in which the development of increasingly complex computers and other electronic products  transformed American society, Mr. Osrow was an inventor who concentrated on the simple things of life: the broom, for example.
        There had been brooms before Mr. Osrow came along, and they swept well enough, but until he and his younger brother Leonard introduced the Osrow Twin-Sweep in 1947, households needed a variety of brooms. The sleek aluminum Osrow, which became something of a sensation at Macy's, not only adjusted from a push broom to an upright, it also came with separate broomhead attachments, for indoor or patio use, that made it four brooms in one.
        To Mr. Osrow, a native of Jamaica, Queens, who briefly attended City College before serving with the Army in World War II, such inventiveness was something of a family tradition. His father, who owned a garment business, had been a tinkerer who obtained half a dozen patents over the years.
        Indeed, it was one of his father's leftover inventions, a hand-held dishwasher, that gave Mr. Osrow his start. The Osrow dishwasher was simply a brush attached to a hose that slipped over the kitchen faucet, but while it sold well enough to lead Mr. Osrow to brooms and beyond, it was its increasingly complex car-washing derivative with soap dispensers and swirling brushes that made Osrow a mainstay in the automotive products field.
        Like other inventors who often have accidental brainstorms, Mr. Osrow, who eventually held more than 30 patents, made a small fortune on a false start. In an effort to develop a portable windshield defroster that would attach to a car's cigarette lighter, he tested a prototype plug-in model in the freezer unit of his home refrigerator one night. When all the excess ice melted away in a manner of minutes he repackaged his idea as a defroster that proved popular until the advent of self-defrosting refrigerators.
        As for all that ice buildup on car windshields, Mr. Osrow abandoned his idea for a battery-powered defroster in favor of one that ran on elbow grease -- a plastic windshield scraper cum snow brush that proved so popular that Mr. Osrow sold them by the millions every year.
        As other products were added, the company, started in accordance with ancient entrepreneurial tradition in a garage in Ridgewood, Queens, expanded rapidly until it occupied a 120,000-square-foot factory with 350 employees in Old Bethpage, L.I. At its peak in the early 1980's it had sales of about $10 million a year.
        For all of Mr. Osrow's fascination with gadgetry, one of the company's more popular products, a cordless iron, reflected his marketing savvy.
        In addition to paying more for convenience, he once explained, consumers will spring for a cordless item ''because of the mystery of it.''
        Still, the mainstays for Mr. Osrow's company, which introduced the talking ice cream machine (it played ''Happy Days are Here Again,'' when the ice cream was done) were products designed to make life easier.
        Unfortunately, one of its most popular products, a home pasta-making machine, proved the company's undoing when it was established that another company had invented it first. The resulting patent-infringement suit led Osrow Products into bankruptcy in the mid 1980's, although several of the company's products are still sold under the Osrow name by other companies.
        Mr. Osrow may have lost his company, but he still had his old eye for invention. Forming a new company, P.T.H.Y. (for ''products that help you''), he helped develop a commercial fudge-making machine, and when that enterprise failed he shouldered on.
        Just two weeks before his death he was working on his latest brainstorm, a coffee table that rises and converts to a full-size dining table.
        Mr. Osrow, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Laura; three children from his first marriage, Richard of West Bayshore, L.I.; Laurel of Manhattan, and Terry of Huntington, L.I.; his wife's two children by a previous marriage, Perry Sann of Summit, N.J. and Steven Sann of Port Washington, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      