
        Morey Bunin, a pioneer puppeteer in the early days of television, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 86.
        As a puppeteer, Mr. Bunin created the television show ''The Adventures of Lucky Pup,'' which featured Foodini, a fumbling magician, and his inept assistant, Pinhead. Beginning in 1948, the show ran on CBS opposite ''Howdy Doody'' on NBC. ''Howdy Doody'' was more famous, but ''Lucky Pup'' had its devoted followers, adults as well as children, who tuned in regularly to watch the clownish antics of this hapless Houdini. Even when a trick failed, he was fond of saying ''Gadzooks!''
        William Saroyan said that Foodini was ''confident, loud, rude, self-centered, proud and yet a delight to behold in action because his pose is so easy to see through, and because his own fantasy of power is forever tripping him into the ludicrous helplessness into which all authority soon finds itself.'' Foodini proved to be a precursor of Professor Bedlam and other characters created by Charles Ludlam at the Ridiculous Theater Company.
        The show was originally called ''Lucky Pup'' because in one episode Foodini tried to swindle a dog that had received a large inheritance. Soon the magician became so popular that the name of the series was changed to ''Foodini the Great.'' It was performed live for 15 minutes Monday through Saturday. Mr. Bunin considered Foodini to be his alter ego: he manipulated the puppet and spoke for him, while his first wife, Hope Shippee, supplied the voice for Pinhead.
        In 1951, the show moved to ABC. After ''Foodini'' was canceled, Mr. Bunin continued appearing with his puppets on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and other programs.
        Mr. Bunin was born in Chicago. He and his brother Lou worked on floats with Bil Baird in the 1932 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, and then operated string marionettes in a Macy's window. Later, they produced puppet shows. Lou Bunin shifted to animated films; in 1951 he was celebrated for his version of ''Alice in Wonderland.''
        Morey Bunin stayed with hand puppetry, performing in Catskill hotels and in the early 1940's touring the United States with a political puppet show. During World War II, he and his wife performed in U.S.O. shows in the South Pacific. After the war, they played at the Palace Theater with Danny Kaye and at Radio City Music Hall, an appearance that led to ''Lucky Pup'' on television.  With his second wife, Charlotte, Mr. Bunin later developed a cartoon process called Aniforms, which was used on many network television shows.
        In 1981, Mr. Bunin's puppets were featured in an exhibition of 800 years of puppetry at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in Manhattan. Foodini and Pinhead assumed their place next to Charlie McCarthy, the Muppets and characters created by Bil Baird (and, of course, their old rival, Howdy Doody).
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bunin is survived by a son, David, of Dumont, N.J.; two daughters, Erica, of Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., and Reada Edelstein of New York City, and five grandchildren.
      