
        Victor Vasarely, a leader of the short-lived Op Art movement of the 1960's, died at a private clinic in Paris on Saturday. He was 90.
        He had been hospitalized for the last two years with prostate cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Michele Vasarely.
        Although ultimately eclipsed by the more restrained style of Minimalism, Op Art was an immensely popular form of abstraction, and Mr. Vasarely, who had experimented with optical patterns since the 1930's, was widely accepted as its ''grandfather.''
        The movement owed much of its popularity to the jazzy, accessible, sometimes slick patterns and spatial tricks that he invented, and to the prints and posters that he produced in profusion. It included such artists as Agam, Getulio Alviani, Richard Anuskiewicz, Jesus-Raphael Soto and Bridget Riley and was celebrated in an exhibition titled ''The Responsive Eye'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 1965.
        Mr. Vasarely's optical patterns came with a strong, sometimes pretentious theoretical base. Born in Pecs, Hungary, in 1906, he trained in Budapest at a painting academy and studied with Sandor Bortniky, who founded a Bauhaus-type school there in 1929. Mr. Vasarely was profoundly affected by the functionalism of the Bauhaus. In 1930, he went to Paris, supporting his studies of science, color and optics with a successful career as a graphic designer.
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Vasarely found a patron in the art dealer Denise Rene, and in 1945 they opened a Paris gallery that became in many ways the home base of the Op Art movement. After an exhibition of graphic design with Ms. Rene in 1945, Mr. Vasarely turned increasingly to painting, first exhibiting his works at the gallery in 1948. He later credited the invention of Op Art with the experience of studying the way the intense light of southern France affected his vision. He had his first New York show in 1964 at the Pace Gallery. He also exhibited here at the Sidney Janis Gallery and at a gallery that Ms. Rene had on West 57th Street during the 1960's and early 70's.
        Mr. Vasarely came to see his work as a link between the Bauhaus and a new kind of modern design that could save the world from ''visual pollution.'' He thought that art would have to combine with architecture to survive, and in later years made many studies and proposals for urban design. He also devised a computer program for the designing of his art -- as well as a do-it-yourself kit for making Op Art paintings -- and left much of the actual fabrication of his work to assistants. ''It is the original idea that is unique,'' he said, ''not the object itself.''
        Although Mr. Vasarely's visibility in the art world declined precipitously after 1970, he remained the center of his own small art empire. This included the Vasarely Museum, which opened in 1970 in a Renaissance chateau in Gordes, a village in the south of France that he had visited each summer since the 1940's; the Vasarely Foundation, which opened in 1977 in a dramatic building of his own design in Aix-en-Provence and, for a few years in the late 1970's and early 80's, the Vasarely Center on Madison Avenue. Today the Gordes museum is closed; the foundation was placed in court-supervised liquidation last month.
        Mr. Vasarely's wife, the former Claire Spinner, who was also an artist and whom he married in 1930, died several years ago. He is survived by two sons, Andre and Jean-Pierre, and three grandchildren, all of Paris.
      