
        Carld Jonaissant, a dancer with Dance Theater of Harlem and American Ballet Theater, a choreographer and a designer, died on Feb. 28 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 35 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, said his brother, Jude Jonaissant.
        Writing of Mr. Jonaissant in 1987, the year he joined Ballet Theater, the critic John Gruen described him as a dancer who ''moves easily and often breathtakingly from style to style, lending his mercurial presence to a wide variety of roles.'' Primarily a classicist, Mr. Jonaissant was equally at home in contemporary and 19th-century ballets and brought a sophisticated intelligence to bear on ballet styles.
        Mr. Jonaissant was born in Port-de-Paix, Haiti, and moved with his family to Canada, where he studied jazz and modern dance. He left for New York City in 1980 after seeing the Harlem company on television. There he was given a scholarship to study ballet and was made an apprentice with the company, becoming a full-fledged member in 1983. At Dance Theater of Harlem he performed principal roles in ballets including Balanchine's ''Square Dance'' and ''Four Temperaments,'' John Taras's production of ''The Firebird,'' Arthur Mitchell's ''Manifestations'' and in a role he originated in John McFall's ''Toccata e due Canzoni.''
        Mr. Jonaissant danced with Ballet Theater through 1993, performing principal roles in ''La Bayadere,'' Merce Cunningham's ''Duets'' and Ulysses Dove's ''Serious Pleasures'' and as a soloist in ''The Nutcracker,'' George Balanchine's ''Theme and Variations,'' and Jiri Kylian's ''Sinfonietta.'' He also performed as a guest artist with companies in Washington and Atlanta and in Mexico.
        Mr. Jonaissant had created a piece for a 1988 Ballet Theater workshop and after leaving the company concentrated on choreography, clothes and costume design and writing poetry. His costumes were featured in  productions presented by the Complexions company and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
        Mr. Jonaissant's wife, Audrey E. Connally, a member of Dance Theater of Harlem, died in 1985. In addition to his brother Jude, Mr. Jonaissant is survived by his mother, Yvette Sylvain, and three other brothers, Jean, Jacques and Guy.
      