
        Syed Amjad Ali, an elder statesman of Pakistan and a staunch friend of the West who served as Ambassador to the United States and later as his country's representative at the United Nations, died on March 5 at his home in Lahore. He was 89.
        Born into a prominent family of industrialists in what was then British India, Mr. Amjad Ali was a commanding presence in the United Nations for many years. In addition to serving on the International Civil Service Commission, he was chairman of the United Nations Committee on Contributions, which oversees dues from member states, from 1967 to 1994.
        Mr. Amjad Ali also played a key role in forging ties between Pakistan and Washington. Versed in finance and economics, he helped shape United States aid programs to Pakistan as it emerged from British rule during the political upheaval on the Indian subcontinent in the late 1940's.
        He was among those who worked to gain Pakistan a place of recognition in world affairs. In 1950, he was elected president of the United Nations Economic and Social Council.
        He then served as his country's Ambassador to the United States from 1953 to 1955, using his skills to build a special relationship between the two countries. He developed personal ties with American leaders and obtained large shipments of wheat as emergency relief to his country.
        Later, as Pakistan's Minister of Finance, he made economic planning his principal concern. He returned to the United Nations in 1964 as Pakistan's permanent representative.
        Having served as vice chairman of Pakistan's Investment and Development Board, he took part in organizing the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and served it as board president.
        Syed Amjad Ali graduated from Government College in Lahore in 1927 and joined his family's businesses, which included a Ford assembly plant in Karachi.
        He also served in diplomatic missions from British India to London and as an influential member of the Punjabi legislature. From 1940 to 1945 he was chief whip of the Unionist Party in the Assembly. In 1946 he was elected to the Constituent Assembly for what was to have become an undivided India.
        He wrote of his experiences in several books, including ''Prints and Imprints,'' ''The United Nations and I,'' ''Caravans of Letters'' and ''Glimpses,'' an autobiography published in 1992.
        Mr. Amjad Ali is survived by three sons, Asad Ali, Tariq Ali and Yawar Ali, and two daughters, Talat Wajahat Hussain and Mumliqat Altzazuddin, all of Lahore and Karachi; two brothers, Wajid and Babar; three sisters, Kishwar, Sarwat and Sitwat, and 10 grandchildren.
      