
        Morris Schaeffer, a microbiologist and virologist who helped New York City rein in potentially hazardous medical laboratories in the 1960's and left his imprint on the national level as well, died on Jan. 4 at a hospital in Eugene, Ore. He was 89 and had moved to Eugene in 1988.
        He suffered a heart attack, the family said in a report of his death that was recently received.
        Dr. Schaeffer was an assistant commissioner of health and director of the Bureau of Laboratories in the city from 1959 to 1971. Early in his tenure, he was given a mandate for a crackdown on irresponsible medical labs.
        Conditions, he found, had gone ''from terrible to bad'' before the city ordered a sweep in 1959 against shabby procedures. Particular targets of his campaign were low-cost contract labs involved in volume testing and mail-order operations.
        Some of them were shut down for lack of proper medical supervision; others were charged under the health code. To keep the industry clean, Dr. Schaeffer's bureau monitored hundreds of private labs and instituted more stringent controls to curb worthless medical tests and unethical practices.
        ''People of all classes are endangered by clinical-laboratory incompetence,'' he said. He helped put into effect a stern code requiring lab directors to be certified pathologists or hold Ph.D.'s in microbiology or other related specialties.
        He also helped Senator Jacob K. Javits draft the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, which encouraged states to set up screening programs using Federal standards.
        Morris Schaeffer arrived in New York City from Ukraine as a boy and graduated from the University of Alabama in 1930. He received a Ph.D. in microbiology from New York University in 1935 and an M.D. in 1944.
        The Federal Government's Communicable Disease Center -- now the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- established a new virus and rickettsia lab in Montgomery, Ala., in 1949, and he was its medical director from 1949 to 1959.
        From 1972 until his retirement in 1987, he worked for the Food and Drug Administration, directing its Bureau of Biologics and then the Center for Drugs and Biologics. For many years he also taught at the Columbia University School of Public Health and the N.Y.U. School of Medicine, among others.
        Dr. Schaeffer's wife of 50 years, Josephine Wintzer Schaeffer, died in 1994. He is survived by two daughters, Debora Halpern of Eugene, and Jessica Schaeffer of Portland, Ore.; two sons, Colin, of Wellesley, Mass., and David, of Los Angeles; a sister, Ida Belsham of Queens, and eight grandchildren.
      