
        Francis J. McGee, a retired police lieutenant who spent more than two decades teaching New York's Finest how to shoot better by firing faster, died on March 3 at the home of his son, David, in Kirkland Hills, Ohio. He was 75 and had lived in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx.
        His family said the cause was a lung condition.
        As his colleagues recalled it, when Lieutenant McGee took over as commander of the Police Academy's firearms and tactics section in 1960, the standard training at the new Rodman's Neck firing range in the Bronx required officers to stand and fire at stationary targets 25 yards away. That was an effective strategy, he realized, for gun battles in which a suspect obligingly held his fire, kept his distance and remained motionless as long as it took an officer to pull back the hammer of his revolver and take careful aim before squeezing off a rock-steady round.
        Lieutenant McGee, a native of Manhattan who grew up in the Bronx and served in the Navy before joining the police force in 1946, knew from his years walking a beat and compiling statistics on police shootings that real-world gun battles didn't happen that way.
        Most, he knew, took place with the combatants within a few feet of each other and happened so fast that an officer would rarely have time to cock his revolver by hand, the so-called single-action method. That method had long been taught because it produced fewer jerky vibrations than the double-action method, in which the pistol is cocked and fired with a hard pull of the trigger.
        On the assumption that training regimens should match expected conditions as much as possible, Lieutenant McGee abandoned the marksmanship approach and began teaching recruits not only to use the faster double-action method but to dispense with aiming altogether in favor of a fast point-and-shoot approach.
        And to drive home his point that aiming was a luxury, he built what recruits (and officers taking their required annual refresher courses) came to know as the ''fun house,'' a simulated tenement apartment in which trainees armed with disabled revolvers would respond to a variety of emergency calls, confronting staff members posing as suspects.
        Lieutenant McGee was in wide demand as a recognized expert on firearms training. He trained instructors from police departments across the country and testified as an expert witness at trials.
        The name of Lieutenant McGee, who retired in 1983, is still a force in police firearms training in New York. The police recruit with the highest shooting score is recognized with the McGee Trophy, and another McGee Trophy is awarded each year to the national shooting champion.
        Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Betty; two daughters, Jane, of the Bronx, and Ann Giannetto of Mansfield, Ohio, and five grandchildren.
      