
        Franklin Cary Salisbury, a lawyer and entrepreneur who promoted scientific advances in cancer research and rocketry, died on March 12 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 86 and lived in Potomac, Md.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Salisbury was best known as the founding president of the National Foundation for Cancer Research, which he formed with the Nobel Prize winner Albert von Szent-Gyorgyi in 1973 after their first meeting. Formerly known as the Bethesda National Foundation of Massachusetts, it has been credited with raising about $150 million since then for cancer research at more than 100 universities and research hospitals in 18 countries.
        It is now based in Bethesda, Md., and Mr. Salisbury served as its president and chief executive to carry on the innovative research pioneered by Dr. Szent-Gyorgyi.
        Mr. Salisbury's multifaceted career also led to his becoming a founding director of the International School of Law in Virginia, now George Mason Law School. In addition he was a co-founder of two ventures in Virginia, the Atlantic Research Corporation and Orbit Industries.
        Atlantic Research, of which he was one of three original directors from 1949 to 1964, grew into a leading manufacturer of solid-rocket propellants. From 1960 to 1968 he also was chairman, secretary and a director of Orbit, which produced electronic telephone equipment and was sold by him.
        Born in Cleveland, Mr. Salisbury was a 1932 graduate of Yale University and received a law degree in 1937 from what is now known as Case Western Reserve University. He worked for the Federal Communications Commission in Washington before heading a legal office as an Army major in the Ordnance Corps in World War II.
        Still in Government service, he took on legal assignments in Rio de Janeiro and at the Department of the Interior's section on Indian affairs until 1961. From 1963 to 1972 he was general counsel of Americans for the Separation of Church and State.
        Mr. Salisbury is survived by his wife of 42 years, Tamara; two sons, Franklin Jr., and John; three daughters, Elizabeth Cameron, Elaine Salisbury, and Claire DeHart, and one granddaughter, all residents of the Washington area.
      