
        U. Alexis Johnson, a career diplomat and one of the shepherds of the first strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union, died on Monday in Raleigh, N.C., where he was living in retirement. He was 88.
        Mr. Johnson spent more than four decades in the Foreign Service. He retired in 1977 as ambassador-at-large and chief United States delegate to the strategic arms negotiations with the Soviet Union in Geneva.
        Previously, from 1969 to 1973, he served President Nixon as Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, the third-ranking official in the State Department. He helped to direct arms control policy and all negotiations in that area and became an important advocate for the treaty curbing the strategic arms race when it came up for ratification in the Senate in 1979.
        He was present at some of the most momentous negotiations of the era, headed embassies in Czechoslovakia, Thailand and Japan, and more than once narrowly escaped death in Saigon during the Vietnam War.
        His memoirs, ''The Right Hand of Power,'' published in 1984, gave insights into many State Department operations of the 1950's through the 70's.
        Ural Alexis Johnson was born on Oct. 17, 1908, into a family of Swedish descent in Falun, Kan. His mother named him for the mountain range, of which she learned from a geography book. He dropped the first name upon entering the Foreign Service in 1935, when it was put to him that U. Alexis would resonate more euphoniously in the halls of Foggy Bottom.
        He had a rural upbringing and schooling until 1923, when the family moved to Glendale, Calif. Attending high school there, he honed his skills in debate and helped edit the school newspaper and yearbook.
        He graduated from Occidental College in 1931, majoring in economics and by then excelling in oratory. Deciding to pursue a diplomatic career, he went to study at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service in Washington.
        Although he passed the Foreign Service examinations, the Depression brought a hiring freeze for diplomats, forcing him into a run of odd jobs. It was not until 1935 that he won an appointment to the Foreign Service with a posting to Tokyo as a language officer. Fluent in Japanese, his early duties also took him to Korea and China.
        The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 stranded him in Manchuria, and he remained in Japanese hands until neutral Portugal mediated an exchange of diplomatic personnel in mid-1942. He then was assigned to Rio de Janeiro, but toward war's end the State Department assigned him to train people for the military occupation of Japan.
        He advanced in the Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs and attended the 1951 Japanese Peace Treaty Conference in San Francisco. He was promoted to deputy assistant secretary later that year and returned to the Far East to help start the truce negotiations to end the Korean War, talks that went on for two years before an armistice was signed.
        President Eisenhower wrote him a letter of commendation for his part in the negotiations and kept him in the deputy assistant's job when he named John Foster Dulles as his Secretary of State. He next became Ambassador to Czechoslovakia, a highly sensitive post then, and concurrently attended Geneva talks on the Far East and assisted in talks with China.
        He served as Ambassador in Thailand from 1958 to 1961 and, following another stint in Washington, as deputy ambassador in South Vietnam. He was Ambassador to Japan from 1966 until his appointment as Under Secretary in 1969.
        Mr. Johnson married Patricia Ann Tillman in 1932. After her death in 1981 he married Dorothy Fee, who died in 1994. He is survived by two daughters, Judith A. Zerbe of Cary, N.C., and Jennifer E. Bishop of Santa Monica, Calif.; two sons, Stephen T. of Arlington, Va., and Dr. William T. K. Johnson of La Canada, Calif.; a sister, Rella Warner of Washington; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      