
        Charles H. Dyson, a financier, entrepreneur and pioneer in the field of leveraged buyouts who was best known for his government service and his philanthropy, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        A lifelong Democrat who worked for President Franklin D. Roosevelt and was decorated by both the United States and Britain for his service during World War II, Mr. Dyson gained added prominence in 1973 when he was the fifth entry on President Richard M. Nixon's ''enemies list'' of political opponents.
        Mr. Dyson, who had been hawkish on the Vietnam War until the mid-1960's, when he began opposing it, said he never knew why he had been deemed worthy of Presidential enmity. But he said at the time, ''I think it was an endorsement for good standards to be on the enemies list.''
        The reason probably involved Common Cause, said John Gardner, a friend of Mr. Dyson who founded the liberal-oriented public affairs group in 1970 and brought Mr. Dyson onto its board in 1971.
        ''In 1971 Common Cause sued the Committee to Re-elect the President to reveal their secret contributors, and we won, and got the list,'' said Mr. Gardner, who is now a consulting professor at Stanford University. ''I suppose that was why I was on the enemies list as well.''
        Mr. Dyson was ''immensely valuable'' to the Common Cause board, Mr. Gardner said, ''because activists are articulate and impulsive, and in the midst of all that, Charles was steady, sane and wise.'' He added, ''We needed him.''
        The son of emigrants from England, Mr. Dyson grew up in Englewood, N.J. He worked as an accountant while attending Pace Institute, now Pace University, , at night, and graduated in 1930.
        He moved through the ranks at Price, Waterhouse & Company, then served during World War II in a variety of posts with the Roosevelt Administration. As a consultant to the Secretary of War, he helped to design the Lend-Lease Act; he was commissioned a colonel in the Air Force and later received the Distinguished Service Medal and was made a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire.
        After the war, Mr. Dyson became president of Textron Inc. and was a senior executive of the Burlington Mills Corporation.
        In 1954 he founded the Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, a New York investment company that has become one of the nation's largest privately held corporations. That year, Mr. Dyson bought his first business -- Hubbard & Company, a maker of electric utility hardware -- with $10,000 of his own money and a $5 million bank loan.
        The investment company later assembled such manufacturing holdings as Kearney-National Inc. and the Wallace-Murray Corporation. Currently itsindustrial businesses generate annual sales of $600 million. In addition, it has real estate holdings and owns radio stations.
        With his wife, Margaret, whom he married in 1941, Mr. Dyson started the Dyson Foundation in 1957, and later established the Dyson Charitable Fund.
        Mr. Dyson served as chairman of the board of Pace University, which named its liberal arts division the Dyson College of Arts and Sciences. Long a patron of the ballet, he served as chairman of the board of the American Ballet Theater.
        Mr. Dyson's first wife died in 1990. June Marston Dyson, whom he married in 1991, survives him. Also surviving are a sister, Laura Bucciarelli of Alpine, N.J.; three sons, John S. Dyson of Millbrook, N.Y., former Deputy Mayor of New York City; Robert R. Dyson, chairman and chief executive of Dyson-Kissner-Moran in Manhattan, and Peter L. Dyson, president of a private investment firm in Kenilworth, Ill.; a daughter, Dr. Anne E. Dyson of Pleasant Valley, N.Y., a pediatrician and president of the foundation and the charitable fund, and 10 grandchildren.
      