
        Tony Zale, who brawled his way to the middleweight championship twice during a Hall of Fame boxing career punctuated by three memorable -- if not legendary -- title bouts with Rocky Graziano, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portage, Ind. He was 83.
        Zale had been suffering from Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease for several months, and he died after his family decided to suspend the antibiotics that had been prolonging his life, The Associated Press reported.
        Though he began his professional career at 21 years old in 1934, it was over a two-year span in the late 1940's -- when he was well past 30 -- when Zale helped make Graziano-Zale as famous a combo in boxing lore as Ali-Frazier or Dempsey-Tunney or Louis-Schmeling.
        Toe to toe, the two middleweights squeezed every ounce from their 160-pound bodies as they rained blood-spattering blows on one another in three power-packed title bouts.
        ''We gave those people their money's worth, didn't we?'' Zale told an interviewer years later.
        Zale was called the Man of Steel for both his ability to seem unfazed by the most brutal pummelings and as a nod to his first job, in the steel mills of Gary, Ind. Born on May 29, 1913, as Anthony Florian Zaleski, he changed his last name to Zale and quit his day job at the mills when his boxing career took off in the 1930's.
        Zale packed a wallop.
        One opponent, Billy Soose, once described Zale's punches by saying that when he ''hits you in the belly, it's like someone stuck a hot poker in you and left it there.''
        By 1940, Zale was the National Boxing Association middleweight champion, and by 1941, when he beat Georgie Abrams, he was the world champion, a title he held through four years in the Navy and until 1947. Of his 90 career bouts, he had 70 victories, 18 losses and 2 draws. He had 46 knockouts. But it was his three fights with Graziano that solidified his standing in boxing history.
        ''Ask any fight buff of the 1940's to name the most memorable series fought in his time and without hesitation he will say the Zale-Graziano battles of 1946, 1947, 1948,'' Red Smith once wrote in his sports column in The New York Times.
        Their first battle was on Sept. 27, 1946, before a crowd of 39,827 at Yankee Stadium. Graziano, who died in 1990, was a formidable up-and-comer fighting in his hometown, but he was knocked out with a left hook to the jaw in the sixth round.
        Graziano took his revenge in their next fight, winning the middleweight title in Chicago on July 16, 1947, when he knocked out Zale in the sixth round with a battery of rights and lefts to the head, face and jaw.
        But Zale reclaimed the title in their third matchup on June 10, 1948, in Ruppert Stadium in Newark. With a punishing left, he sent Graziano down for the count in the third round and became the second boxer to regain the middleweight crown. (The first, Stanley Ketchel, took it back from Billy Papke in 1908.)
        Three months after fighting Graziano, Zale lost the title to Marcel Cerdan, a French boxer from Casablanca, Morocco, when he could not come out for the 12th round.
        After the defeat, Zale, 35, retired.
        In 1958, he was elected to the Boxing Hall of Fame. In retirement, Zale continued to spar with young proteges as a coach at organizations like the Catholic Youth Organization in Chicago.
        He is survived by two daughters.
      