
        James Arthur Ryder, who built a $20 million fortune in truck leasing before losing it all trying to build another fortune, died on Tuesday at HealthSouth Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., after suffering a stroke. He was 83.
        The company he founded, Ryder  System Inc., now leases 200,000 trucks in nine countries and operates businesses with annual revenues of $5.5 billion last year.
        In 1935 Mr. Ryder was a day laborer in Miami who loaded concrete blocks onto trucks. Realizing that truck drivers made more money and did not have to do as much physical labor, he put $30 down and borrowed $100 to buy a used Model A truck.
        Two years later he started his leasing business. By 1946 he was grossing $1.5 million a year, but finances were so tight that his draw was only $35 a week and he had to borrow most of a $300 down payment to buy a house for $4,400.
        By 1960, when he received a Horatio Alger award, his stake in the company was worth $11 million, the equivalent of more than $59 million today.
        Leigh Culley, his public relations representative for 30 years, said that Mr. Ryder ''was constantly traveling to our locations around the country, where he would kiss every secretary and jump into the pit under trucks that were in for repairs wearing a $500 suit and shake hands with the mechanics, saying: 'Hi, I'm Jim. What's your name.' ''
        But in 1978, after a new president began to assert his control over the company, Mr. Ryder, who was board chairman, quit in anger.
        Against the advice of friends he started a competitor, Jartran, a name formed from his initials and a shortening of the word transportation. Four years later Jartran was in bankruptcy proceedings.
        ''Jim tried yacht leasing -- he loved sailing -- and other ideas, but none of them worked out,'' Mr. Culley said.
        ''The last few years he really was on his uppers, just as he was in the 1930's when he started out,'' Mr. Culley said.
        ''He could have just retired with $20 million and a $100,000-a-year pension, but instead he lost all of his fortune,'' Mr. Culley said. ''But he was not bitter one bit. He would say: 'I'm just another guy like you; I had it good, but it was just luck and hard work, and plenty of people make it and lose it. I had a good time and I'm happy about how life is going for me.' ''
        Although Mr. Ryder voided his pension by starting a competitor, in recent years the company had provided support for its founder, Mr. Culley said. Last year the company sold its consumer truck-rental business to focus on commercial leasing and other operations.
        Mr. Ryder is survived by his fourth wife, Diane Miller Ryder; a son, James A. Ryder Jr. of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and a brother, Ralph, of Miami.
      