
        Adm. Ephraim Paul Holmes, who rose to become the fifth-highest-ranking naval officer, died on Sunday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 88.
        He retired in 1970 as Commander in Chief, United States Atlantic Fleet, the 12th naval officer to hold the position.
        He reached it in 1967, concurrently taking charge of the unified Atlantic Command and two related North Atlantic Treaty commands: Commander in Chief, Western Atlantic, and Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic.
        Born in Downsville, N.Y., Admiral Holmes graduated from the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., in 1930. His first six years in the service were spent aboard cruisers and destroyers.
        He studied communications at the Naval Postgraduate School in 1938 and survived the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor while serving there as an aide and flag lieutenant on the staff of Commander Battle Ships, Battle Force.
        He saw more action in the battles of Coral Sea and Midway and was given his first command in 1943 on the Stockham, a newly commissioned destroyer.
        The next June his ship's guns repelled repeated Japanese aircraft attacks and threw up screens for the assault and capture of the Philippines and Saipan, enemy-held islands.
        After the war he studied at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I., taught at the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Va., and served with the Amphibious Force, Atlantic Fleet.
        He advanced to flag rank in 1957 while serving on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations.
        He saw duty in the Atlantic, the Mediterranean and again in the Pacific, where he commanded the Pacific Amphibious Force and the First Fleet.
        He was director of navy program planning for the Chief of Naval Operations before he took on his final assignment.
        As Commander in Chief, Atlantic Fleet, in 1967 he was responsible for maintaining the combat readiness, training and logistical support of some 220,000 people.
        His wife, Nancy Sellers Holmes, died in 1995. He is survived by a daughter, Diane H. Fletcher of Mathews, Va.; a son, Ephraim P. Jr., of Grand Junction, Colo.; 8 grandchildren; 2 step-grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren, and 6 step-great-grandchildren.
      