
        Frank Shomo, the last known survivor of the Johnstown Flood in Pennsylvania, one of the worst peacetime disasters in American history, died on Thursday at Blattenberger's Personal Care Home in Black Lick, Pa. He was 108 and a longtime resident of Robinson, Pa.
        Mr. Shomo was an infant, only 100 days old, on May 31, 1889, when an earthen dam across a tributary of the Little Conemaugh River collapsed under pressure from the rain-swollen waters of Lake Conemaugh. With that, a wall of water raced down the Little Conemaugh and slammed into Johnstown, a riverside city 55 miles southeast of Pittsburgh, at 4:07 P.M. All told, 2,209 lives were lost in the flood and a related fire.
        Mr. Shomo became the last known survivor of the flood when Elsie Frum of Johnstown died in 1991, also at 108. The two were honored guests at annual Flood Survivors' Banquets in Johnstown. Ill health kept Mr. Shomo from attending the banquets in recent years.
        In 1889, he and his family were living about 20 miles down river from Johnstown in the town of Lockport, Pa., where he was born. His family survived the flood. In 1988 he said that the high water had not reached their house. In 1983, when asked if he had lost any relatives, he said, ''No, they were all good swimmers.''
        In a 1991 interview, he said: ''I think what hurt my father the most was when he saw a house floating down the river with a family praying inside it. The flood waters turned the house upside down and the people drowned.''
        Frank Shomo retired in 1955, as a foreman, after working for the Pennsylvania Railroad for five decades. In later years, he took up leather-working and made some money by producing handmade wallets. When he was 100 he still kept in shape by riding an exercise bicycle.
        He was preceded in death by his two wives, the former Adda Belle Cunningham and the former Edna McDermott.
        His survivors include two daughters, Alma Hawkins Gibson of Uniontown, Pa., and Kathleen Mitchell of Avon, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      