
        Bertram M. Gross, a public policy specialist, author and academician who was a forceful and persistent advocate of full employment, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday  in Walnut Creek, Calif., his widow, Kusum Singh, said. He was 84 years old.
        Although he earned no degrees in economics -- he majored in English and philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania as an undergraduate and subsequently received an M.A. in English literature at Penn -- Mr. Gross played an important role in crafting policies and legislation that were cornerstones of the New Deal, first at the United States Housing Authority, where he worked from 1938 to 1941, and then in Congress.
        From 1941 to 1945 he served as research director and economic adviser for a series of Senate committees. In that capacity he wrote the Roosevelt-Truman full employment bills of 1944 and 1945, legislation that articulated for the first time that full employment at a living wage should be a national priority.
        This legislation also created the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and from 1946 to 1952 Mr. Gross served as its first executive secretary, an administrative post.
        Although he left Washington in the early 1950's, for the rest of his life Mr. Gross was never far removed from the debate, especially where Government's role in facilitating job creation was concerned.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Gross worked with Representative Augustus F. Hawkins, Democrat of California, in drafting early versions of what became the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978, otherwise known as the Humphrey-Hawkins bill. And in recent years he served as an adviser to Representative Ron Dellums, Democrat of California, in fashioning the living wage for all bill, which has yet to be introduced in Congress.
        ''He identified with the dispossessed,'' said Victor Navasky, publisher and editorial director of The Nation, who knew Mr. Gross for nearly 30 years. At the same time, Mr. Navasky said: ''He was the answer to the proposition that economics is a dismal science. He always had a smile.''
        Mr. Gross propounded his social and economic views from a variety of platforms.
        From 1953 to 1956 he was an economic adviser to Israel, and in the late 1950's helped create the departments of public and business administration at Hebrew University.
        He returned to the United States in 1960 and entered academia, first as a professor at Syracuse University's Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Policy, a position he held for eight years. Subsequently he served as director of the Urban Studies Center at Wayne State University in Detroit. In 1970 he was named Distinguished Professor at Hunter College of the City University of New York, a position he held until his retirement in 1982.
        From that date until his death Mr. Gross was a visiting professor at large at Saint Mary's College of California.
        He wrote many books; perhaps his best known was ''The Legislative Struggle,'' a book on American government for which in 1954 he won the Woodrow Wilson Award of the American Political Science Association.
        Mr. Gross's first wife, Nora, died in 1981. In addition to Ms. Singh, he is survived by a sister, Edith Grosz of Amsterdam; four sons, David J. Gross of Santa Barbara, Calif., Larry P. Gross of Philadelphia, Samuel R. Gross of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Theodore F. Gross of New York; five grandchildren, one great-grandchild; three step-daughters and seven step-grandchildren.
      