
        The Rev. Dr. Mac Charles Jones, the Baptist minister who led the National Council of Churches' drive to focus attention on a wave of racist arson fires at black churches in the rural South, died on Friday at a hospital near Dallas. He was 47 and had been the council's deputy general secretary for national ministries since March 3.
        Council officials said that Dr. Jones, who had recently moved to Manhattan after more than a decade as pastor of St. Stephen's Church in Kansas City, Mo., died of a blood clot after collapsing at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport on a trip to El Paso for a meeting of the council's working group on racial justice.
        While people who knew him were shocked at the death of a vibrant man less than a week after his elevation to one of the council's three-highest positions -- and also less than a week after his second marriage, on March 2 -- they could hardly be surprised that Dr. Jones had been on the road when he died.
        Long before he took a part-time position with the National Council of Churches in 1995 as associate general secretary for racial justice, Dr. Jones had been an inveterate traveler, as an official of his historically black denomination, the National Baptist Convention of America, and of the World Council of Churches.
        Once Dr. Jones became the point man for the National Council of Churches' campaign, he was rarely in Kansas City longer than it took to deliver one of his spellbinding sermons and dash to the airport.
        The son of a Baptist minister, Dr. Jones was born in Phoenix and grew up with a thirst for knowledge and a quest for justice. After getting an associate degree from Phoenix College, he received a bachelor's degree in communications from Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Mo., a master's from Northern Illinois University, a master's in divinity from Virginia Union Theological Seminary, and, after further graduate study at Emory University in Atlanta, a doctorate from United Theological Seminary in Dayton, Ohio.
        After holding pastorates in LaGrange, Ga., and Franklin, Va., Dr. Jones went to Kansas City in 1984, already a well-known figure in church and civil rights circles.
        Dr. Jones was a longtime board member of the Center for Democratic Renewal, a group based in Atlanta that monitors the Ku Klux Klan and other hate groups. About the time he joined the National Council in 1995, he learned that the center had detected a surge in church arsons.
        His primary mission soon became investigating the fires, bringing them to public attention and combating the underlying racism he saw as emboldening the arsonists.
        Dr. Jones, who served on an array of church and civil rights panels, organized and spoke at rallies across the country, testified before a Congressional committee and visited the sites of more than 40 church fires, an experience that angered him.
        From a man who had dedicated his life to standing up for the underdog, whether it was a poor white farmer, a woman or homosexual, or a black congregation, the anger was both real and deep.
        Yet through it all, Dr. Jones could always be counted on to find the humor in untenable circumstances.
        Because not all the arsons stemmed from racial animosity -- some being traced to black arsonists and others to mindless vandalism -- some questions have been raised about the extent of the problem.
        But officials of the National Council, which conducted independent investigations of 124 arsons labeled by the Atlanta Center as hate crimes, found only 10 that were not clearly linked to racism, even though many lacked the hard evidence necessary for prosecution.
        For Dr. Jones, who was credited with making the arsons a national issue, the fires were merely a symptom of an ingrained racism.
        The kind of man who never stifled a smile, Dr. Jones became famous among his friends and associates for his impromptu bear hugs, gestures that never failed to delight but were not without some hazard, since they were delivered by a man who weighed 300 pounds.
        ''He was big all over'' is the way a friend, the Rev. Sam Mann, a Kansas City minister, put it the other day,  referring, he said, both to Dr. Jones's size and his outsized heart.
        Dr. Jones, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Jannella; his mother, Elverta Jones of Phoenix; a daughter, Lacey, of Kansas City; a son, Ayinda, of Phoenix; a brother, the Rev. Robert Jones of Richmond, and a sister, Lillye, of Phoenix.
      