
        M. Frederik Smith, a business consultant and conservationist, died on Wednesday at the Stella Maris Nursing Center in Towson, Md. Mr. Smith, who lived in Towson, was 88, and had retired in 1991 after a stroke.
        For nearly 30 years, Mr. Smith was a consultant on conservation to Laurance S. Rockefeller, the venture capitalist and philanthropist.
        Mr. Smith served at various times on the Federal Power Commission's Task Force on Environmental Quality; as a New York City representative on the New York State Park Commission; the advisory committee of the Hudson River Valley Commission, and the advisory board of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
        ''As a consultant, he had great talent in public relations, in politics, in conservation, and great business sense,'' Mr. Rockefeller said. ''He was a sort of a Renaissance man, very invaluable, very fearless. He worked at the Federal, state and local level in this whole environmental field, and he was really dedicated to this cause.''
        Mr. Smith also served on the boards of American Motors and Howard Johnson, and the United Nations Development Corporation.
        President Richard M. Nixon appointed Mr. Smith a consultant to the Committee on Quality of the Environment. President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Smith to the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Outdoor Recreation and Natural Beauty.
        President Dwight D. Eisenhower named him to the Recreation Resources Review Commission, and President Harry S. Truman appointed Mr. Smith chairman of the public relations committee of the National Labor Management Conference.
        From 1942 to 1944, during the Roosevelt Administration, Mr. Smith was assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury and a staff representative of the President at the Economic and International Monetary Conference at Bretton Woods, N.H. in 1944.
        From 1964 to 1968, he was also consultant to the chairman of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        Mr. Smith was born in Fort Wayne, Ind. in 1908, and attended the University of Michigan, the College of William and Mary and the Dayton Art Institute.
        From 1931 to 1938, he directed public relations for Batton, Barton, Durstine & Osborn in New York, and worked later for the advertising firms of Selvage & Smith, and Young & Rubicam. He became director of advertising for Simon & Schuster in 1945. He also worked for the Book-of-the-Month Club and the Prudential Insurance Company before joining Mr. Rockefeller in 1964.
        Mr. Smith's first marriage, to Vivian Weston, ended in divorce in 1941.
        He is survived by Catherine Hanley, his wife of 56 years; by three sons, Christopher F., of Hobe Sound, Fla., Mark, of Parkville, Mo., and Frederik, of Mill Creek, Wash., and three daughters, Michaele Thorn of Towson, Drusilla Sangemino of Bothell, Wash., and Francesca Korogy of San Diego.
      