
        Marie M. Lambert, who campaigned for Manhattan Surrogate promising to ''clean up the citadel of patronage'' but who retired from the powerful judgeship 12 years later best known as a patronage queen, died on Tuesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan, where she practiced law.
        The cause was kidney failure, said her son, Gregory L. Lambert. Her health had deteriorated after heart surgery last fall, he said.
        As one of two elected judges of the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, which Fiorello La Guardia described  as ''the most expensive undertaking establishment in the world,'' Surrogate Lambert heard disputes pertaining to wills and estates, and formalized adoptions. She directed the flow of millions of dollars a year by appointing guardians for those too young or too feeble to handle their accounts, designating lawyers to manage wills that had no assigned executor, and awarding legal fees.
        From 1977, when she was elected, to 1990, when she retired at the mandatory age of 70, Surrogate Lambert, feared for her quick temper and ability to keep lawyers working in her court till the early morning hours, drew fire.
        Democratic Party leaders would not endorse her in the primary campaign, saying she lacked judicial temperament and knowledge of trust and estates law. A judicial conduct commission investigated allegations that she was the most hands-on of fund-raisers for the primary, in which she sent out 300,000 pieces of literature and saturated the city with Lambert paraphernalia. The United States Attorney's office would periodically announce that it was looking at how she gave lucrative work to a cadre of lawyers.
        But while shadows remained attached to her name, Surrogate Lambert, a gregarious, street-smart personal injury lawyer who was also the first woman president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, eluded her accusers. Despite the absence of party backing and the disdain of the city's editorial pages, she ran a raw and raucous campaign -- and won. Although investigators recommended she be censured for her unabashed fund-raising, the State Commission on Judicial Conduct declined to take action. And though two lawyers would be prosecuted for activities connected to her, she never faced any charges.
        In 1990, an appellate court scolded her as it overturned legal fees she awarded to two lawyers, saying the fees were excessive and that the Surrogate had failed to disclose her friendship with them.
        As Surrogate, she ruled over the dying wishes of the very rich and the very famous, a role she relished. Marilyn Monroe's estate marched before her, as did those of Lotte Lenya, Yul Brynner, Lillian Hellman and Joan Crawford. ''Relax,'' she told the actor Al Pacino, when he appeared on a matter. ''Nobody is going to bite you, not if I can help it.''
        She was regarded as a judge who could compel rancorous cases to settle by sheer dint of her will. ''If she wanted that result, she would get that result -- legal niceties didn't bother her,'' George DeSipio, a former chairman of the city bar's trust and estates committee, recalled. ''She could be quite nasty if you crossed her the wrong way.''
        But Mr. DeSipio, who remained on friendly terms with Surrogate Lambert, said that above all, she was passionate about her job. ''She was a happy judge,'' he said.
        In her capacity as Surrogate, she used her authority to help gay partners clarify their inheritance rights. Since homosexuals were not permitted to marry, Surrogate Lambert permitted one partner to adopt the other as a means of guaranteeing inheritance benefits.
        But her most infamous task was settling the war over the half-billion dollar estate of J. Seward Johnson, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical fortune. For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
        According to David Margolick, a former reporter for The New York Times who chronicled the case in his book ''Undue Influence,'' Surrogate Lambert badgered and belittled Mrs. Johnson and her lawyers, provoking her to settle the case before it went to a jury.
        In another case that raised eyebrows and grabbed headlines, Surrogate Lambert, an Italian immigrant who aggressively sought the support of Jewish voters by vowing not to direct funds to banks that joined in the Arab boycott of Israel, opened an investigation into the Palestine Liberation Organization. A journalist had left 10 percent of his $300,000 estate to the P.L.O. Surrogate Lambert said she could authorize payment to a terrorist group. After hearings in 1982, she ordered the money to be administered through the International Red Cross, to address Palestinian living conditions.
        Giusippina Giovanna Maria Macri was born in a small town in the Calabria region of Italy in 1920. Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress. She is survived by her sister, Gloria Diemer, and her brother, Charles Courtright.
        She showed intellectual promise and ambition at an early age: Embedded in the family lore is the tale of how the young Marie, told by her grammar school that she could not be valedictorian although she had the academic credentials, hopped the subway, went to City Hall, and had an audience with an Italian compatriot, Mayor La Guardia, who immediately ordered the wrong rectified.
        After graduating from Brooklyn College, she attended New York University Law School, where she graduated at the top of her class. In 1946 she married Grady Lambert, a salesman at Abercrombie & Fitch, who died in 1975.
        She tried Wall Street law firms, but left because she was told to specialize in trust and estates law, which she considered ''women's work.'' Instead, she made her mark in the male-dominated world of personal injury law. Hungry and bright, she would take negligence cases that no one else would touch and turn them into winners. Her courtroom manner was disarming: She would shuffle in, legal papers spilling out of shopping bags. Juries considered her one of them.
        From the outset of her legal career, she understood the importance of networking: In her later years, she would boast of her friendship with Roy Cohn, who escorted her to President Ronald Reagan's first inaugural ball.
        In 1974, the New York State Trial Lawyers elected her president. ''She started her career and ended it on behalf of widows and orphans,'' said Aaron J. Broder, a personal injury lawyer.
        In 1990, she reached 70, the mandatory retirement age for judges, and returned to private practice reluctantly. There is a Lambert legend  widely repeated in legal circles, which her son could not confirm but said could well be true. In an effort to extend her term on the bench, it is said, Surrogate Lambert traveled to Italy to check her village church records, to see if her birth date was perhaps incorrect.
        Correction:  March 30, 1997, Sunday
        An obituary in some editions yesterday about Marie M. Lambert, a Surrogate Court judge in Manhattan, omitted a word and thus misstated her position in a case involving a bequest to the Palestine Liberation Organization. She ordered hearings into the purpose of the organization because she said she could not authorize estate payments to terrorists. (The obituary is reprinted today on page 25.)
      