
        Dean Kenneth Harrison, a New York college administrator who was a leader in encouraging women and members of minority groups to pursue advanced degrees, died on Feb. 28 at his home in the East Village of Manhattan. He was 73.
        He had been in failing health for some time, said his wife, the actress and playwright Vinie Burrows.
        Mr. Harrison retired in 1994 as the founding director of the Office of Expanded Educational Opportunity at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York. CUNY established the office in 1970 and recruited Mr. Harrison to head it.
        At the time, the total enrollment of students from minority groups at the Graduate School was a dozen. By the time he retired, about 20 percent of its American students were members of minority groups. Many came to the school from afar because of the program.
        Mr. Harrison was also a leader in the effort that created the federally financed Graduate and Professional Student Opportunities Program to assist women and minority students in fields in which they were traditionally underrepresented. The program was established in 1976 under an amendment to the 1965 Higher Education Act.
        He was named a regional director of the program and lobbied Congress for its continuation in the 1980's. Renewed authorization was granted in 1986 along with a new name, the Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowship Program, after the first American black woman to become an ambassador. It provided about $20 million a year to see some 1,200 minority scholars through their postgraduate studies, until it was ended last year.
        By the early 1990's, twice as many African-American and Hispanic students were earning doctorates at the Graduate School as in the rest of the country, and Mr. Harrison was given the credit. National recognition came when the school received the 1995 Award for Innovation in the Recruitment and Retention of Minority Graduate Students, given jointly by the Council of Graduate Schools and Peterson's Guide to colleges and universities.
        Mr. Harrison, a native of Chicago, graduated from New York University, from which he also received a master's degree in human relations at the School of Education. He then became active in community work in the Bronx and Newark. He started at the CUNY Graduate School after conducting similar outreach and recruitment programs for the University of California at Berkeley.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Gregory, of San Francisco; a daughter, Sojourner Aletha, of Manhattan; a brother, John, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      