
        David McCord, who earned renown as an author of children's poetry and also wrote adult poetry and prose, died on Sunday in Goddard House, a nursing home in Boston. He was 99.
        To generations of Harvard graduates like himself, Mr. McCord was also known as the executive director of the Harvard Fund Council, a fund-raising arm of the university, and as an editor of the Harvard Alumni Bulletin.
        And while he was also a talented essayist, anthologist, watercolorist and trout fisherman, he was most highly regarded for his children's poetry.
        ''Whatever may be said about this small but graceful art,'' Mr. McCord wrote in an article for The New York Times in 1964, ''three things should be remembered: good poems for children are never trivial; they are never written without the characteristic chills and fever of a dedicated man at work; they must never bear the stigma of I am adult, you are a child.''
        In one of his children's poems, he wrote of a roller coaster that makes you feel ''like a ball of twine/ . . . That's rolling off a roof with no/One there to catch it down below.''
        He wrote or edited more than 40 books of poetry and prose. Among them were ''One at a Time,'' a collection of his children's verse published in 1978 by Little, Brown; ''On Occasion,'' a collection of his occasional verse published in 1943 by Harvard University Press; ''About Boston,'' a collection of essays about the city first published in 1948 by Doubleday and reprinted in 1964 by Little, Brown, and ''What Cheer,'' an anthology of British and American humorous and witty verse published by Coward-McCann in 1945 and reprinted in 1946 as ''The Pocket Book of Humorous Verse.''
        In the realm of light verse, Mr. McCord was also the often quoted (though usually unidentified) author of the light verse titled ''Epitaph for a Waiter,'' which consisted in its entirety of these lines:
        By and by
        God caught his eye.
        In 1987, when Tufts University awarded Mr. McCord his 14th honorary degree, the citation recognized his tireless evangelism for poetry for children, noting: ''In the past 25 years, he has talked to more than 100,000 fourth and fifth graders across the country.''
        Mr. McCord, who was born in New York City in 1897, lived for a while in Princeton, N.J. At 12, he moved with his family to Oregon, where he lived on an uncle's farm on the edge of a wilderness. It was there, he later wrote, that he learned, ''Poetry is rhythm, just as the planet Earth is rhythm; the best writing, poetry or prose -- no matter what the message it conveys -- depends on a very sure and subtle rhythm.''
        Mr. McCord graduated from Harvard with a bachelor of arts in 1921 and received a master's in chemistry in 1922. He became an editor of the Harvard Alumni Bulletin the next year, and from 1925 until his retirement in 1963 was the executive director of the Harvard Fund Council. In 1956, Harvard awarded him its first honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters.
        He is survived by his companion, Harriet Parker of Boston.
      