
        Gen. Andres Rodriguez, who led a coup in Paraguay in 1989 that ended more than three decades of dictatorship by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, died today at a New York hospital. He was 72.
        A spokesman for the Paraguayan Embassy in Washington said that Gen. Rodriguez had died of complications from liver cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment, and that his family was at his bedside.
        General Rodriguez is considered one of Paraguay's most important modern political figures for overthrowing General Stroessner, who came to power in 1954 and won eight straight presidential elections in Paraguay, mainly through fraud and intimidation.
        On Feb. 3, 1989, General Rodriguez toppled General Stroessner in a bloody palace coup that resulted from a bitter dispute over who would succeed an ailing General Stroessner, who went into exile in Brazil.
        Shortly after the coup, General Rodriguez, who had been a bulwark of the Stroessner regime, surprised skeptics by restoring press liberties, freeing political prisoners, welcoming home exiles, and conducting open presidential elections.
        Paraguayans elected General Rodriguez, who first served as interim president, to a four-year term that ended in 1993, when businessman Juan Carlos Wasmosy became Paraguay's first democratically elected civilian President.
        While many historians credit General Rodriguez for bringing democratic rule to Paraguay, which had known only dictators since it won independence in 1811, others viewed him as an opportunist who deposed his mentor to fulfill a lifelong quest to become President.
        In Asuncion, the Paraguayan capital, residents of the landlocked country of five million people, expressed mixed emotions over General Rodriguez's death.
        ''Andres Rodriguez gave Paraguay the opportunity to live in democracy,'' said Demetrio Rojas, director of Ultima Hora, a leading daily newspaper. Domingo Laino, head of the opposition Authentic Radical Liberal party, said, ''Andres Rodriguez's light will glow brighter than his shadow.'' But Florencia Lopez, a seamstress, said that the general was ''a strongman who had robbed the public till.''
        General Rodriguez became one of the richest men in Paraguay under the military government that he toppled. After a 40-year military career with a top salary of $500 a month, he owned the nation's largest brewery, a chain of currency exchange shops, an import-export business, several ranches, and a copper wire company.
        Toward the end of General Rodriguez's career, there were persistent allegations that he was involved in cocaine trafficking from neighboring Bolivia to Europe and the United States, but such charges were never proved.
        After his retirement from the army, General Rodriguez was sworn in as a Paraguayan Senator for Life, a position that granted him immunity from attacks by political enemies, many of them former Stroessner aides angry at losing their privileges.
        Last year, General Rodriguez played a major role in ending a tense constitutional standoff between President Wasmosy and a renegade army general, Cesar Oviedo, who refused to yield power.
        General Rodriguez is survived by his wife, Nelly Reich de Rodriguez and three daughters, Dolly, Mirtha, and Martha, who reside in Paraguay.
      