
        Marvin Liebman, a militant conservative and anti-Communist who became active in promoting gay rights, died on Monday at George Washington Medical Center in Washington. He was 73.
        The cause was heart failure, said William F. Buckley Jr., the editor-at-large of the conservative journal National Review, a close friend.
        Mr. Liebman helped in the political campaigns of, among others, Ronald  Reagan and Mr. Buckley's brother James, a Conservative Party candidate who was elected senator from New York in 1970. While Mr. Reagan was President, Mr. Liebman held posts in Federal agencies.
        In 1990, when he was director of special projects at the Federal Trade Commission, he announced his homosexuality in a letter to William Buckley. In the letter, which was published in National Review, Mr. Liebman contended that ''political gay bashing, racism and anti-Semitism'' had survived ''even in this golden period of conservatism's great triumphs.''
        Later he said he had made the disclosure with the hope of countering what he called the homophobia in right-wing politics. He also said he felt no bitterness toward Mr. Buckley, although they disagreed on the normality and morality of homosexuality.
        In an article Mr. Liebman wrote in 1992, he said: 'To be gay, conservative and Republican is not a contradiction. I'm proud to be all three.''
        But he went on to say: ''One of the more important slogans of the gay and lesbian community is, 'We are everywhere.' We are everywhere -- except as an open and accepted presence in the Republican Party. As far as some Republicans are concerned, we exist not as human beings but rather as symbols of unspeakable evil and objects of hatred, bigotry and fear.''
        Mr. Liebman was a native New Yorker and attended New York University. In a 1992 autobiography, ''Coming out Conservative,'' he recounted that he had belonged to the Young Communist League in his youth and had been dismissed in 1944 from the Army Air Corps for ''habits and traits of character not beneficial to the Armed Forces of the United States.'' He also said that after being reared in the Jewish faith, he had converted to Roman Catholicism. Some friends said yesterday that he was no longer a Catholic when he died.
        In the book, Mr. Liebman also said that in 1945 he married a woman whose name he gave only as Patsy and that the marriage was annulled later that year.
        He is survived by a sister, Eleanor Lidofsky of Brooklyn.
      