
        Harry Duncan, a skilled hand printer of books who was responsible for Robert Lowell's first volume of poetry and works by other well-known writers, died on Friday at his home in Omaha. He was 80.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Nancy.
        Mr. Duncan started operating a hand press in Cummington, Mass., in 1939, winning praise for setting high standards under the Cummington Press imprint. He continued to publish books under that imprint for decades, for a time also using the imprint Abattoir.
        His authors included William Carlos Williams, Wallace Stevens, Marianne Moore, Tennessee Williams and Yvor Winters.
        The hand press Mr. Duncan used for most of his books was operated manually by two people and resembled the press that Gutenberg invented. It was for lack of an assistant that in 1985 he switched to an electric model.
        Newsweek magazine said in 1982 that Mr. Duncan had come to be ''considered the father of the post-World War II private-press movement.'' Fine Print magazine said in 1978: ''Harry Duncan's virtuosity, taste and experience have enabled him to reconcile the esthetic and practical demands of printing and typography and weld them together with literary excellence.''
        Mr. Duncan also had some of his own poetry published, his wife, a former student, said yesterday. ''Because he was a poet and a writer, he believed the book shouldn't get in the way of the poetry; the book should act as a window to the word,'' she said. ''And so he didn't overly decorate his books.''
        Harry Alvin Duncan was born in Keokuk, Iowa. His father owned a furniture store and his mother was a champion bridge player. He graduated from high school there and received a bachelor's degree in English in 1938 from Grinnell College in Iowa. Intending to become a poet, he went on to study at the independent Cummington School of the Arts.
        He learned about printing, and when the head of the school, Katherine Frazier, decided that she wanted to start a hand press, he got it going. Later, a friend, Paul Wightman Williams, did illustrations for the books, and helped him design and print  books for some years. They also published pamphlets with poems in them.
        It was in 1944 that the two printed Lowell's first poetry book, ''The Land of Unlikeness,'' illustrated by Gustav Wolf. Mrs. Duncan said that it was her understanding that her husband published that work after he came to know Mr. Lowell through a mutual friend, the poet and critic Allen Tate. All three men were converts to Roman Catholicism, and Mr. Tate was Mr. Duncan's godfather.
        It was through the Cummington School of the Arts that Mr. Duncan met numerous other poets whose books he later hand-printed, Mrs. Duncan said. Over the years he also carried out many other publishing functions, including editing and distributing his books. His wife estimated that he printed about 135 books of poetry or fiction during his career.
        Not long after World War II, Mrs. Duncan said, Mr. Duncan moved the  Cummington Press, whose equipment he owned, to Rowe, Mass., where he operated it independently of the art school. In Rowe he contineud to operate the press on a nonprofit basis, as he had at Cummington. He drove a school bus and did some teaching to help make ends meet.
        Then Mr. Williams died in a traffic accident, and in 1956 Mr. Duncan took the post of director of the typographic laboratory at the School of Journalism of the University of Iowa in Iowa City.
        He held that job for 15 years, teaching typography, book design and production full time in the journalism school and rising to the rank of professor. In 1960, he married his wife, who had taken his typography course. During his years in Iowa he continued hand-printing books and publishing them under the Cummington Press imprint in his vacations.
        But he wanted to print and publish books full-time, his wife recalled, and in 1972 accepted an offer from the University of Nebraska in Omaha to found a fine-arts press. He operated that press virtually full time, using the imprint Abattoir Editions, until he retired from that post in 1985. In those years he also occasionally printed pamphlets and similar materials under the Cummington Press imprint.
        Poetry by Mr. Duncan was published in a 1954 anthology, ''Poets of Today.'' His translations of poetry by Dante were published in a book, ''The Stone Beloved,'' in 1986 by Kairos Press. His book about typography, ''The Doors of Perception,'' came out in 1983. He also wrote librettos for at least two operas.
        In addition to his wife he is survived by two sons, Guy, of Omaha, and Barnaby, of Idaho Falls, Idaho; a daughter, Lucy Elizabeth Duncan of Omaha; four grandchildren, and a sister, Betty Margaret Oliver of Keokuk.
      