
        David Hunter Elwyn, a biochemist who formulated nourishment to sustain critically ill patients unable to feed themselves, died on April 6 at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Ossining.
        The cause was lymphoma, his family said.
        Dr. Elwyn was an expert in what is known as total parenteral nutrition:  whole food brought into the body other than through the digestive tract. Before specialists took up the challenge, patients unable to ingest food were usually kept alive with a glucose solution.
        But glucose did not deliver all the required nutriments, causing the patient to waste away and putting severe strain on a sick body. The challenge to researchers like Dr. Elwyn was to find combinations of fats, amino acids and other ingredients that were equivalent to a real meal.
        Working with colleagues, Dr. Elwyn created new formulas for nutritive cocktails that would feed the body and sustain it through a time of crisis. His contributions grew from long clinical experience in intermediary metabolism, from both the biochemical and physiological perspectives, and a thorough familiarity with the suffering of surgical patients in acute trauma.
        He also examined the metabolic relationships among body organs and worked out a method for sampling blood flowing to and from an organ. He contributed to scores of scientific papers.
        Early in his career, Dr. Elwyn collaborated with Dr. William C. Shoemaker in a study of the metabolic fate of amino acids passing from the gut to the liver. Their results fully quantified inputs and outputs through the organ and became a primary source of data on that subject.
        Concentrating on nutritional depletion, he also shed light on its effects on amino acid metabolism and its correction by parenteral feeding. There, too, his investigation provided enduring quantification.
        His career spanned more than five decades at Harvard Medical School, the University of Illinois, Mount Sinai Medical School, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, where he retired in 1987. After that and until his illness was diagnosed in October, he worked at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center employing his expertise to formulate diets for obese patients.
        David Elwyn was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Columbia College and received a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Columbia in 1950. He was a researcher at Columbia before receiving a faculty appointment at Harvard Medical School in 1953.
        Dr. Elwyn is survived by his wife of 55 years, Lisbe Leacock Elwyn; four daughters, Dr. Katy Elwyn of Peekskill, N.Y., Sue Elwyn of Colora, Md., Rachel Yarmolinsky of Manhattan and Laura Elwyn of Middletown, N.Y.; two sisters, Sally Popkin of Freeport, L.I., and Betty Cadbury-Brown of Aldeburgh, Suffolk, England, and two grandsons.
      