
        Mildred Custin, who built Bonwit Teller into a leading fashion force in the late 1960's by introducing designers such as Pierre Cardin, Andre Courreges, Emanuel Ungaro and Calvin Klein to the American public, died Thursday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 91.
        As president and then chairwoman of the 12-store Bonwit chain from 1965 to 1970, Ms. Custin used extensive retailing experience, superb taste and a sense of daring to impart a high-fashion image to what had been a traditional store selling the same clothing women could buy just about anywhere else. She gave some of the hottest names of the swinging 1960's boutiques in the store, and among the labels sold there were Norman Norell, James Galanos, Donald Brooks, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigere and Rudi Gernreich.
        Ms. Custin added masses of fresh flowers to Bonwit's flagship store at 721 Fifth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, on the sites now occupied by Trump Tower and Niketown.  She filled the store with a series of boutiques, including the famous S'fari Room for trendy fashion, and turned the 57th Street side into a men's haberdashery.
        It was a daring move at the time to try to sell men's wear in what had been strictly a women's specialty store. Ms. Custin offered her customers Cardin's neo-Edwardian silhouette, then considered radical, the first Bill Blass men's wear, Hermes ties from Paris and Turnbull & Asser shirts from London. At Christmas time, men were catered to with special shopping evenings.
        Ms. Custin never lacked daring. She believed that women were better than men at the fashion business. ''We are more inclined than they are to take risks,'' she said in a New York Times interview in 1981. ''All women who have reached the top in fashion did it by risking their necks. If I saw something I liked, I'd fill the store with it. I trusted my judgment.''
        Among the fortuitous decisions she made was to give Calvin Klein his first order, for $50,000, in 1968. ''I've told that story so many times,'' Mr. Klein recalled yesterday, ''of wheeling the rack of clothes up Fifth Avenue on a Saturday morning. It wasn't even a collection, it was just fall coats and dresses. She was so supportive to me in those early years with things stores don't do anymore, like free advertising.''
        ''She was completely hands on,'' he added, ''totally involved in everything from the fresh flowers to the windows to the advertising. She had a little voice but was a very strong lady with a clear strategy and a vision that was very focused.''
        She was also among the first merchants to give elaborate parties in the store, starting with a black-tie supper dance to introduce Norman Norell's first perfume in 1968.
        Ms. Custin, a petite woman with silvery hair and a soft, little-girl voice, had a reputation for grace and charm, bulwarked by a capacity for working hard and inspiring others to do the same. In her first year at Bonwit's she noted that all the stores were closed on Washington's Birthday while the streets were crowded with pedestrians, all potential customers. So the next year, she convinced her employees to stay open on the holiday, and the people were in the store, not on the street.
        She was born in Manchester, N.H., on Jan. 25, 1906, and was reared in Boston, where she graduated from Simmons College. She spent 37 years honing her retailing skills before taking the reins at Bonwit's in New York. Her career began in 1928 in the controller's office at R. H. Macy & Company after she was rejected for the executive training program in retailing.
        She returned to Boston and worked at Shepard's, a department store that no longer exists, and then at R. H. White's. In 1935, she went to John Wanamaker in Philadelphia, where she worked her way up from gift buyer to a vice presidency.
        In 1958, she was named president of Bonwit Teller Philadelphia, a three-store chain that became part of Bonwit Teller New York in 1963. In Philadelphia she secured her reputation by transforming a drab, rundown store into a paragon of good taste by revamping window and interior displays, advertising and merchandising. It was there that she started sending chatty memos to charge customers along with their monthly bills, a practice she continued in New York.
        Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.
        It was Ms. Custin's involvement as consultant to the Esplanade, a shopping complex in Palm Beach, that led to her moving there in 1979. She ran her business until 1990.
        Ms. Custin is survived by two nieces, Joan Custin of New York and Barbara Poverman of Chestnut Hill, Mass., a great-niece and two great-nephews.
      