
        John Joseph Gunther, a longtime lobbyist for urban dwellers and big-town city halls across the country, died on April 14 in a hospital near Algarve, Portugal, where he had a vacation home. He was 71 and lived in Sun Valley, Idaho, having moved there permanently from Washington in retirement.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, according to the United States Conference of Mayors, which he served as executive director from 1958 to 1987.
        As such Mr. Gunther, a lawyer by training, dealt with the Government at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue on a broad variety of subjects. Basically, his job, and that of his organization, was to insure that the cities got as large a piece of the Federal budget pie as their statistics, charts and suasion could slice.
        He headed the conference through several administrations and helped put it on a solid foundation. In doing so he built a reputation as an architect of its urban policies and for keeping the cities' interests on the national agenda.
        He often teamed with the National League of Cities, a companion alliance, to speak before Congress and executive agencies on matters ranging from air pollution to mass transit to public-service jobs, from unemployment to gun control. The conference, founded in 1932, gives voice to larger cities, speaking through their mayors, while the league is a federation of municipalities joining forces at the state level.
        Their memberships tend to overlap as the conference lends a platform to share for the chief executives of the more than 1,000 cities with at least 30,000 people apiece in the country. The league is more broadly based in that it admits mayors as well as city councils.
        One of Mr. Gunther's most taxing experiences arose from the fiscal crisis that had New York City teetering on the brink of bankruptcy in 1975. His calendar then was crowded with hearings and meetings all over Washington, Albany and the beleaguered city itself.
        He was born in Leavenworth, Kan., and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1947. He also received a master's of public administration that year at the University of Kansas and earned his law degree at George Washington University in 1954.
        He was in private practice until 1958 when he joined the Conference of Mayors as general counsel. He served under President John F. Kennedy as chairman of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency.
        Over the years he led delegations of mayors to cities all over the world. Just after retiring he published ''Federal-City Relations in the United States,'' giving his perspective on the roles mayors played in shaping a Federal-city agenda. It remains in print from the University of Delaware Press.
        Mr. Gunther is survived by his wife of 33 years, Rita Xavier Gunther, and a daughter, Rita St. John Gunther of Washington.
      