
        Ben Raeburn, who published the complete works of Frank Lloyd Wright and a pantheon of authors from Irving Howe and Alfred Kazin to Robert Olen Butler and Oriana Fallaci, died on April 9 in a convalescent hospital in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 86.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his son, Eric, said.
        From 1951 to 1984, the Horizon Press owned by Mr. Raeburn specialized in publishing authors before they found a mass audience; authors whose latest work no one else would buy and, always, books noted for exquisite design.
        Publishers Weekly, the book industry's trade magazine, honored Horizon Press with the 1977 Carey-Thomas Award for most distinquished publishing project: ''An Autobiography'' by Mr. Wright.
        That year Herbert Mitgang, who covered publishing for The New York Times, wrote that ''Mr. Raeburn, one of the legendary publishing figures in New York, is known for his ability to edit, design and perform the dozen-and-one other tasks himself to see a book into print.''
        In 1945 Mr. Raeburn edited ''Treasury for the Free World,'' with a foreword by Ernest Hemingway, and essays by Gunnar Myrdal, Albert Einstein, William O. Douglas, Bertrand and Patricia Russell, Darryl F. Zanuck and others.
        He published two of Mr. Butler's books, ''Sun Dogs'' and ''Countrymen of Bones,'' a decade before Mr. Butler won a Pulitzer Prize in 1993 for ''A Good Scent From a Strange Mountain.'' Donald Newlove had three published novels when he wrote his first nonfiction book, ''Those Drinking Days,'' which he said no one but Mr. Raeburn would publish. ''It turned out to be my best-selling book,'' Mr. Newlove said.
        Mr. Raeburn was renowned as a storyteller, but one story that he told to almost no one was of his arrest in 1935 and his being sentenced to two years in prison in 1939 for sending what were then considered obscene materials through the mails for Falstaff Press, where he was the office manager.
        S. John Block, the lawyer for Mr. Raeburn and his aunt and uncle, who owned Falstaff Press, argued at the trial that rulings of the United States Supreme Court prohibited convictions based on isolated passages and that the books at issue had to be considered as a whole. When the jury returned guilty verdicts after two and a half hours of deliberations, Mr. Block told reporters that the jurors had not had time to read the books.
        Eric Raeburn said that when he was about 14 his father told him about his imprisonment, but never again spoke of it. Rose Hass, who was Mr. Raeburn's secretary for three decades, said he had spoken vaguely of his imprisonment, but eight old friends said this week that the prison term was news to them.
        Mr. Raeburn did love to tell the story of attending a Communist Party organizing meeting during the Depression and trying to ask questions, said Tobias Mostel, the son of Mr. Raeburn's friend Zero Mostel, the actor. ''First you join, then we answer questions,'' Mr. Raeburn was told. ''Ben didn't join,'' Mr. Mostel said.
        Horizon Press went out of business soon after Mr. Raeburn sold it in 1984, Ms. Hass said.
        Mr. Raeburn's wife, Pearl, died in 1992. In addition to his son, he is survived by a niece, Margaret Suttle of Manhattan, and two nephews, Paul Justman of Hollywood and Seth Justman of Boston.
      