
        Craig Butler Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River off Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Myrna Manners, a spokeswoman for New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        In his 28-year career at Colgate-Palmolive, the multinational consumer products manufacturer that is the world's largest seller of toothpaste, toothbrushes and deodorants, Mr. Tate served in a number of executive positions, including high posts in Europe, Asia and the United States. He opened the company's first manufacturing plant in China.
        As chief technological officer since 1994, Mr. Tate had global responsibility for research, product development and patents, the company said this week.
        Craig Butler Tate was born on June 16, 1945, in Winston-Salem, N.C. He grew up in Omaha and received a bachelor's degree in economics from Stanford University in 1967. In 1969, he received a master's degree from Dartmouth College's Amos Tuck School of Business Administration.
        After graduating, he returned to Colgate-Palmolive, where he had been an intern the year before, and worked in various marketing and product management jobs. In 1984 and 1985, he worked as vice president and executive assistant to Reuben Mark, the company's chief executive officer. Later, he became the vice president for worldwide new products and vice president for global marketing. Mr. Tate was elected an officer of the corporation in 1989 and in 1992 was named president of the Far East division.
        He is survived by his wife, Sharon Graham Tate; four children, Christopher Graham Tate, who is studying at Stanford, Andrew Curtis Tate, Melissa Arne Tate and Carrie Elizabeth Tate; his father, John Everett Tate Jr. of Bentonville, Ark.; his mother, Mary Elizabeth Krebs of Tucson, Ariz.; three brothers, John Everett Tate 3d and Mark Taylor Tate, both of Tucson, and G. Truett Tate of Frankfurt, Germany, and a stepbrother, William Brown of Omaha.
      