
        Henry A. Mucci, the charismatic Army colonel who became an instant and enduring American war hero in 1945 when he led the raid that rescued 500 survivors of the fall of Corregidor and the Bataan Death March from a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Melbourne, Fla. He was 88.
        Half a century and several wars later it is almost impossible to imagine the thrilling impact the news that flashed across the Pacific on Feb. 1, 1945, had on the American people. Two days earlier, they learned, a small force of Army Rangers and Filipino guerrillas under the command of Lieut. Col. Henry A. Mucci, a 33-year-old West Point graduate from Bridgeport, Conn., had penetrated 30 miles behind Japanese lines north of Manila and rescued 511 men, most of them American soldiers, who for almost three years had endured an excruciatingly brutal confinement in a camp named for the nearby town of Cabanatuan.
        What stirred the public was not simply the ''aw shucks'' elan of Colonel Mucci, whose signature pipe, mustache and shoulder holster soon became familiar to millions of American newspaper readers, or the skill and courage of his raiders.
        It was rather the identity of those he and his force of about 400 men had rescued: the tattered, often crippled and gruesomely emaciated remnants of 70,000 American and Filipino prisoners captured by Japanese invaders in the opening months of the war.
        The plight of the Cabanatuan prisoners had been a burning issue in the United States since October 1943, when word leaked out that 10 of the  prisoners, led by Austin Shofner, a 25-year-old Marine captain from Shelbyville, Tenn., had managed an almost impossible escape and brought out chilling accounts of widespread Japanese atrocities.
        Their accounts, initially suppressed, told of how more than 15,000 prisoners had been shot or hacked to death during a three-day, 65-mile forced march up the Bataan peninsula that became known as the Bataan Death March, and of how thousands of others had died of disease or been shot, beheaded or starved to death at the camp, which once held 10,000 prisoners. Although Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright and several thousand other prisoners had been transferred to other Japanese work camps throughout Asia, to get to the Cabanatuan camp and rescue its last 511 prisoners, Colonel Mucci's men had to crawl over or past the shallow graves of more than 2,500 prisoners.
        The escapees' reports outraged the American public and altered the course of the war. The plight of the men he had left behind added such urgency to the famous ''I shall return vow'' Gen. Douglas MacArthur had made when he was ordered to leave his last-stand fortress on Corregidor Island at the mouth of Manila Bay in March, 1942, that after he took command of the Pacific forces, he won permission from President Roosevelt to abandon the Navy's northwesterly island-hopping course toward Japan in favor of an assault on the Philippines.
        It should not be especially surprising that three days before MacArthur made his walk through the surf on his celebrated return to the Philippines behind a full-scale invasion on Oct. 21, 1944, Colonel Mucci had led a small preliminary Ranger assault force ashore to clear the way.
        Colonel Mucci, a Pearl Harbor survivor who had transformed a moribund field artillery unit into the crack 6th Ranger Battalion during six weeks of intensive advanced training in New Guinea earlier in 1944, had also established his place in the ''Veni, Vidi, Vici''/''Sighted Sub, Sank Same,'' pantheon of cryptic military communiques.
        Frustrated at finding so little resistance during his October assault, Colonel Mucci sent back the message: ''Here we are with all these goddamned bullets and no Japs.''
        Still, Manila was not recaptured until the following March, more than a month after the Mucci raid. MacArthur was so impressed that he decorated every member of the raiding party, awarding Colonel Mucci the Distinguished Service Medal.
        He was also widely lionized in the United States. As Bridgeport's most famous war hero and a highly popular figure in the city's large Italian-American community, Mr. Mucci ran as a Democrat in 1946 for the House seat that had just been vacated by Clair Booth Luce, but during the campaign the man who had become a hero to millions became the butt of one of the most famous acts of one-upsmanship in the annals of American politics. In a joint appearance with his Republican opponent, John Davis Lodge of the Boston Lodges, Mr. Mucci, prefiguring Mario Cuomo's speech to a Democratic national convention years later, told how his mother had come to America from Italy with $16 in her pocket and said that he had not been born with a silver spoon in his mouth.
        Mr. Lodge, sensing an oblique attack on his Brahmin background, was gracious, praising Mr. Mucci as a great credit to Italian-Americans and all Americans and then delivering his own speech in Italian, a language Mr. Mucci did not speak.
        The coup was widely credited with winning the election for Mr. Lodge, who later became a Connecticut governor.
        After the race, Mr. Mucci abandoned public life and eventually went to work as a Far Eastern representative of the Sunningdale Oil Company of Calgary, Alberta, living for many years in Singapore, commuting frequently to Saigon and dismissing rumors that he was working for the Central Intelligence Agency.
        The rumors persisted, however, partly because Mr. Mucci was at work at his Saigon office until a day before the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces on April 30, 1975, and partly because it seemed exactly the sort of thing a war hero might do.
        He is survived by two daughters, Senga Mortimer of Manhattan and Marcia Marsland of Worcester, Mass.; a brother, William, of Phoenix, Ariz.; two sisters, Marjorie Allen of Yarmouth, Mass., and Grace Finley of Stratford, Conn.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      