
        Robert Henry Wentorf Jr., a latter-day alchemist who employed superpressures to turn lowly graphite into diamonds for myriad uses in drilling, cutting and grinding, died on April 3 at his home in Easton, N.Y. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Wentorf spent his working life at the General Electric Research Laboratory, now the G.E. Research & Development Center, in Schenectady. A physical chemist by training, he was among the scientists who made General Electric the pioneer of man-made diamonds and semiprecious garnets.
        He was on the team that made the first artificial diamonds in 1954 by dint of dangerously high pressures and temperatures, a munificent budget -- and top secrecy. It was something scientists had hoped to accomplish for two centuries, since they had determined that diamonds were a form of carbon.
        It took G.E. nearly three more years to figure out a use for what, in fact, are today's superabrasives. Once it did, that seeming laboratory folly quickly burgeoned into a million-carat, billion-dollar manufacture of minuscule colored bits of crystal. Weighing less than a thousandth of a carat a piece, they proved a godsend for sinking an oil well or building a jet plane.
        Dr. Wentorf followed up in 1957 with his creation of Borazon, or cubic boron nitride, a material not found in nature. It rivaled diamonds in hardness, resisted heat better than did the real thing and was good for machining the kind of superalloys destined for jet engines.
        He and a colleague, Dr. Herbert M. Strong, surprised themselves in 1970 when they created absolutely flawless, carat-size diamonds of gem quality. They did so by taking the tiny stones made from cheap graphite and subjecting them to about 60,000 atmospheres of pressure at 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit for several days.
        It was another long-sought goal and produced stones whose quality in some respects surpassed that of natural diamonds at their finest. Because of the steep cost and other factors, they were not commercialized for jewelry but found limited use in electronic equipment.
        Dr. Wentorf also developed a process in the 1970's for fusing single diamond crystals together into a block, or compact, in which the bonds between the individuals are as strong as the bonds within each crystal. The resulting diamond blanks provide the cutting tool tips for drilling wells, for instance.
        He shared a patent in 1980 for a method of increasing the strength of man-made diamonds. In the process,  diamond crystals were work-hardened under extreme heat and pressure to give their faces abrasion resistance without bonding them together. His name appeared on 44 patents for inventions applied in drilling for oil, cutting stone or working metal.
        Robert Wentorf was born in West Bend, Wis., and graduated in chemical engineering from the University of Wisconsin in 1948. He received a Ph.D. in physical chemistry there in 1951, the year he joined the G.E. Research Laboratory.
        After he retired from the company in 1988 he continued his research and taught as Distinguished Professor of chemical engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y.
        Dr. Wentorf is survived by his wife of four years, Frances Gillespie Wentorf; a son, Rolf C. of Johnsonville, N.Y.; two daughters, Jill M. Wright of Chatham, N.Y., and Elaine W. Hills of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a sister, Phyllis Nelson of Lafayette, Calif.; and three grandchildren. His earlier marriage to Vivian Marty Wentorf, of Chatham Center, ended in divorce.
      