
        Thomas H. D. Mahoney, an elder statesman of Massachusetts and world-traveling advocate for the elderly, died on Monday at Stanford Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        He was on the way home from Seoul, South Korea, after addressing the 97th conference of the Interparliamentary Union, a gathering of legislators from 125 countries, and suffered a stroke while stopping over in California, said his son, Thomas H. Mahoney 4th.
        The younger Mr. Mahoney said his father attended a similar meeting  last month in Russia. He was to have flown to Cairo soon to discuss the health and welfare of the elderly at a gathering of women from the parliamentary union, his son said.
        Dr. Mahoney had a first career as an educator at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined the faculty in 1945, served as chairman of the history section twice in the 1960's and 1970's, and retired as a professor of history in 1984.
        He wrote and edited a number of books on the life and thought of the 18th-century British political writer and statesman Edmund Burke, including volumes on his perspectives on Ireland, the American Revolution and the French Revolution. Another notable textbook was ''The United States in World History,'' written with J. B. Rae.
        Thomas Henry Donald Mahoney liked to note that he was born on an election day, Nov. 4, 1913, and never lost in his 11 campaigns for public office. His first election was as a school committeeman in his native Cambridge in 1948. He was a state representative in the 1970's when he became the founding chairman of the ethics committee and headed the energy committee.
        In 1979, Gov. Edward King appointed him Massachusetts' first Secretary of Elder Affairs. It was the first such state office in the country and, with a yearly budget of $100 million, bolstered his standing as a national figure.
        He led the state delegation to the White House Conference on Aging in 1981. He became a senior social gerontologist and adviser to the House of Representatives and was increasingly involved in the work of United Nations agencies, panels and conferences and other world bodies.
        At his death he was a member of the executive committee of the United Nations Nongovernmental Organizations Committee.
        A 1936 graduate of Boston College, he earned a master's degree and a Ph.D. at George Washington University. He may well have been the oldest recipient of a doctor of public affairs at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government when he finished his dissertation in 1989 at the age of 75.
        Besides his son, Thomas, who lives in Manhattan, Dr. Mahoney is survived by his wife of 45 years, Phyllis Norton Mahoney; three other sons, David, of San Francisco, Peter, of Newton, Mass., and Philip, of Los Altos Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Linda, of Cambridge, and four granddaughters.
      