
        Evsey D. Domar, a leading theorist of economic growth and expert on comparative economic systems, died April 1 at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass., where he had lived for many years. He was 82.
        The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disorder, said his wife, Carola R. Domar.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Domar was professor emeritus of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Earlier, he was a developer of the Harrod-Domar model of economic growth, which predicts how much people must save and invest to keep an economy growing. He described the model, which was developed separately by Sir Roy F. Harrod of Oxford University, in his 1957 book, ''Essays in the Theory of Economic Growth.''
        In later years, he focused on economic history, particularly slavery; in 1989, he published ''Capitalism, Socialism and Serfdom: Essays.''
        He was also a popular and influential teacher. Robert Eisner, former president of the American Economics Association, attributed his choice of a career in part to Professor Domar. He ''taught Keynes beautifully,'' Mr. Eisner said in 1988.
        Born in Lodz, which was then in Russia but is now in Poland, Professor Domar and his family were in Manchuria, where his father had business, when World War I began, his wife said. He graduated from the State Faculty of Law in Harbin, Manchuria, before moving to the United States in 1936.
        Shortening the family name of Domashevitsky, Mr. Domar attended the University of California at Los Angeles, earning a bachelor's degree in 1939. He also received a master's degree in mathematics from the University of Michigan, and a master's degree and doctorate in economics from Harvard University.
        He taught at Oxford as a Fulbright Scholar in 1952 and 1953, and was a professor at Johns Hopkins University for 10 years before moving to M.I.T. in 1958. He retired in 1984.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Domar is survived by two daughters, Erica D. Banderob of Milton, Mass., and Alice D. Domar of Sudbury, Mass., and three granddaughters.
      