
        Rose Bigman, Walter Winchell's formidable ''girl Friday'' who worked seven days a week shielding the columnist from his enemies, fending off his friends and serving him with slavish devotion for more than three decades, died on Wednesday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 87 and had lived in Greenwich Village.
        During the years when an estimated 50 million Americans, two thirds of the nation's adult population, either read Winchell's newspaper columns or listened to his Sunday night radio broadcasts, nobody hung on his words the way Rose Bigman did.
        After all, she was the secretary to one of the most powerful men in America, and she savored her position as his gatekeeper, the woman who stood between him and the packs of press agents and others clamoring for his attention.
        Not that it was easy being Winchell's secretary. He was a demanding boss who flew into rages over the most trivial mistake and rarely had praise for a job well done. Yet for 35 years, beginning in the mid-1930's, Miss Bigman, a small, nervous woman who was a whiz at typing, not only took his abuse, she rewarded him with unswerving loyalty.
        Winchell, a notorious night owl who rarely visited his East 45th Street office at The Mirror, the flagship of the more than 2,000 newspapers that carried his column, did his writing at his apartment or at the office late at night after Miss Bigman had finally gone home.
        Their routine was for Miss Bigman to go through the hundreds of packets press agents sent in each day, sorting them by column headings like ''Man About Town'' or ''Things I Never Knew Till Now,'' and send the best ones to his apartment by messenger in what they called the nightly envelope.
        During the day, Winchell communicated with her largely by phone. And as she told Neal Gabler for his 1994 biography, ''Winchell,'' Miss Bigman was so fearful of missing a call that she stayed by the phone from 10:30 in the morning to 7:30 or 8 at night.
        ''I never went out to lunch,'' she said. ''I would practically die before I would go to the ladies room.''
        If her devotion seems excessive, there was an explanation. To Miss Bigman, a Manhattan native who was orphaned and passed from aunt to aunt, Winchell was the father she had never known, and if he was an especially tyrannical father, he was the only one she had, and in her eyes he could do no wrong.
        As she herself once put it, ''He was sort of a father image to me. I think that's why I took the yelling and everything. I didn't have a father so I took it from him.''
        To Herman Klurfeld, the onetime teen-age gag writer who secretly composed close to half of Winchell's weekly output after 1937, Miss Bigman was an essentially lonely woman whose entire life revolved around her boss. ''Winchell was central to her life,'' he said.
        When an early marriage ended in divorce, he said, Miss Bigman had no further romantic interests.
        If the working conditions were harsh, there were also rewards. Aside from the sheer thrill of being at what sometimes seemed the center of the national universe, there was a good salary and an array of perks that included theater tickets and free meals at fine restaurants.
        And in one display of secretarial initiative, when Winchell, who felt ethically constrained to return the lavish Christmas presents sent in by press agents, she persuaded him to let her keep them.
        Miss Bigman, who had been a secretary for businessmen, got her job through one of those accidents of association. The son of one of her earlier bosses once dated Winchell's original secretary, Ruth Cambridge, who hired Miss Bigman in 1932 to help with an upsurge in mail. When that job ended after a year, Miss Bigman stayed at The Mirror as secretary to the drama critic. When Ms. Cambridge left in 1935 to follow her husband, the actor Buddy Ebsen, to Hollywood, Miss Bigman returned to Winchell and never left.
        After The Mirror folded in 1963 and the Winchell column shifted to The Journal American, he opened an office at the Damon Runyon Memorial Cancer Fund he had set up after Runyon's death in 1946. Miss Bigman worked there until the column expired with the demise of The World Journal Tribune in 1967, five years before Winchell's death.
        Since then, Miss Bigman lived quietly in Greenwich Village, occasionally entertaining a small circle of friends and remaining steadfast in her devotion to Winchell. Although she was a major source of Mr. Gabler's biography, in recent years when friends had asked about some episode with Winchell, she would tell them she was saving it for her book, one she apparently never wrote.
        Miss Bigman, whose only sister died several years ago, leaves no survivors.
      