
        Robert J. Hausman, a longtime chairman of Loews Hotels and of the Princess Grace Foundation, died on Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 73.
        Mr. Hausman died of leukemia, his wife, Gloria, said. They had lived in Greenwich.
        After returning from World War II, in which he served as an Army lieutenant, Mr. Hausman started several businesses, including children's clothing manufacturing and a chain of pancake houses under the Aunt Jemima name. He sold the restaurants in 1967 and moved into the hotel business after an invitation from Preston Robert Tisch, co-founder of the hotel company that would later bear the Loews name.
        ''Bob Tisch, who we knew from our club in Scarsdale, the Metropolis Country Club, said, 'How would you like to come into the hotel business?' '' Gloria Hausman recalled yesterday.
        Mr. Hausman became a vice president of Loews Hotels, which had been founded as Tisch Hotels when Mr. Tisch and his brother Laurence A. Tisch bought a hotel in 1946. The company assumed the Loews name when the brothers bought Loews Theaters in 1967.
        When Preston Tisch became Postmaster General of the United States in 1986, Mr. Hausman assumed his title as chairman and chief executive of Loews Hotels, a unit of the Loews Corporation.
        In 1989, the chief executive's spot was taken by Jonathan Tisch, Preston Tisch's son, but Mr. Hausman remained chairman until the end of last year.
        Mr. Hausman was involved in negotiating for Loews to open a hotel in Monte Carlo. In doing so, he became a friend of Prince Rainier of Monaco and his wife, Princess Grace.
        When she died in 1983, Prince Rainier asked Mr. Hausman to be the chairman of a foundation to honor the Princess, the former Grace Kelly.
        The Princess Grace Foundation U.S.A. provides grants to emerging American artists in the theater, dance and film. It is known for opulent fund-raising events. In 1984, Ronald and Nancy Reagan gave a White House dinner for patrons of a $5,000-a-head fund-raising weekend for the charity.
        Mr. Hausman also served as a director of the 92d Street Y.M.H.A.-Y.M.C.A. in New York since 1972, and for long stretches was chairman of its finance committee. Most recently, he became chairman of the 92d Street Y's new building and expansion committee. He also served on the board of Westchester Community College.
        Mr. Hausman was born in New York City and graduated from Dartmouth College.
        He is survived by three daughters -- Judith Hausman of Bedford, N.Y., Dr. Alice Hausman-Belin of Merion, Pa., and Laura H. Hadane of Lynnfield, Mass.
      