
        Judy Flannery, a late-blooming athlete who became an unlikely triathlon champion, was killed on Wednesday when she was struck by an automobile while on a bicycle-training ride near Poolesville, Md. A resident of Chevy Chase, she was was 57 and had won six American and four world age-group championships in the sport, which combines running, swimming and cycling.
        According to the Montgomery County police, Ms. Flannery, who was nearing the midpoint of a 55-mile training ride with two friends, was killed when a car driven by an unlicensed 16-year-old driver swerved across the center line of the country road. The youth and his 38-year-old father, who was in the front passenger seat, received minor injuries. The police said yesterday that the incident was still under investigation and that no charges had been filed.
        A native of Wilmington, Del., who graduated from the College of New Rochelle and worked as a biochemist before starting a family, Ms. Flannery grew up with a trim, athletic build in an age when girls were generally not welcome in athletics.
        By the time her own four daughters were growing up, things were changing, especially at the Flannery household. Indeed, Ms. Flannery, who also had a son, spent so much time ferrying her brood to and from one athletic field or another that a daughter described her yesterday as ''the original soccer mom.''
        Still, it was not until she was about 38, as she later recalled, that Ms. Flannery decided to find out what she had been missing.
        ''I ran around the block,'' she said, and, as it happened, more or less kept on going: within a few years she was running marathons.
        She might have stuck with distance running if a friend had not taken her to a triathlon one day. Immediately intrigued, Ms. Flannery, who was particularly attracted to the cycling phase, began training for the triathlon.
        She was 47, and many of the women in the sport had been competing for decades, but within four years Ms. Flannery had pulled ahead of those in her age group.
        She won the first of her six consecutive national championships in 1991, captured the first of her four world titles in 1992 and was so dominant in the United States that when she placed second last weekend in a race in Birmingham, Ala., the 55-year-old woman who beat her was described as stunned. No wonder. It was Ms. Flannery's first loss in a national age-group competition in six years.
        Her proficiency as well as her popularity helps explain why the sport's national governing body, USA Triathlon, named her last month as the Master Female Triathlete of the Year.
        A powerful runner who held her own in swimming, Ms. Flannery proved especially adept at cycling, so much so that she won five national age-group titles in time trials.
        Although triathlons are staged over a varied combination of distances -- a mile swim, a 25-mile bicycle race and a 6.2-mile run in championship events, for example -- Ms. Flannery did not abandon her old sport of marathoning altogether. She competed three times in the grueling Hawaiian Ironman triathlon, which includes a full, 26.2-mile marathon, once placing second in her age group.
        As enthusiastic about her sport as she was proficient in it, Ms. Flannery, a bubbly woman with a perpetual smile, was an accomplished recruiter who charmed thousands of women into taking up the sport while serving as chairwoman of the women's commission of USA Triathlon.
        She was also an athlete of such uncommon modesty that she was never known to mention her victories. Those she had befriended and brought into the sport were inevitably startled to learn that the woman who had recruited them was a perennial champion.
        For all the time she spent training and competing, Ms. Flannery was a regular volunteer at a local soup kitchen, but when it came to charity she preferred something a bit more robust. At the time of her death, for example, she and three cycling teammates were preparing to raise money to combat domestic violence by taking part in this summer's 3,000-mile Ride Across America.
        Ms. Flannery is survived by her husband, Dennis; a son, Dennis, of Washington; four daughters, Erin of Santa Monica, Calif., Kelly of Collegeville, Pa., and Shannon and Megan, both of Washington, and a brother, David Sysko, of Wilmington.
      