
        Abe Feder, who in a lifetime devoted to the art of illumination virtually created the field of theatrical lighting design and was also a seminal figure in architectural lighting, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        The name of Mr. Feder's company is ''Lighting by Feder,'' three magical words in his profession. For more than 50 years, ''Lighting by Feder'' was a superlative credit in the theater. As a designer, Mr. Feder was responsible for the lighting on shows from ''The Cradle Will Rock'' (in the 1938 Federal Theater production) to ''My Fair Lady'' and ''Camelot.'' A total of 300 Broadway shows had his signature. He also designed for opera and ballet. In the performing arts, he was an unchallenged master and set the standard for all who followed him.
        He was equally important in the world of architecture. Mr. Feder lighted an array of Manhattan buildings, including the RCA Building in Rockefeller Center (and the Prometheus Fountain), the United Nations, banks, concert halls, universities and the main altar of St. Patrick's Cathedral. He also lighted the lion cages and the penguin house at the Bronx Zoo, a terminal at Kennedy Airport, Roosevelt Raceway, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and buildings in other countries, including the Montreal Cultural Center and the Israel National Museum in Jerusalem. Although he was known for lighting the exteriors of buildings, he was equally enthusiastic about working with interiors -- of everything from supermarkets to restaurants to ocean liners.
        In all these cases, ''Lighting by Feder'' was designed to enhance its subject, whether that was a ballroom scene onstage or Buckminster Fuller's first geodesic dome or the 1964 New York World's Fair. His favorite slogan was ''Push back the darkness!''
        In a profile of Mr. Feder in The New Yorker in 1960, Joseph Wechsberg wrote: ''Feder has used light as if it were a building material -- plaster, concrete or wood. He picks up a light and places it elsewhere, or piles light beams on top of one another, as if they were bricks. But if light is for him one of the plastic architectural elements, it is by far the worthiest of the lot.''
        ''Given the chance,'' he added, ''Feder plays with light as a composer plays with sound.'' In the profile,  Mr. Feder was quoted as saying that light was a material that ''can fill space without actually filling it'' and that it had phantasmagorical possibilities: ''Lighting -- especially lighting at night -- can make you see things you've never seen before.''
        He rarely declined a challenge, although on at least one occasion he rejected a proposal because of inadequate resources. When he was asked to light St. Marks Square in Venice, he decided not to because there was ''not enough power, not enough equipment.''
        Abraham H. Feder was born in Milwaukee. Mr. Wechsberg said that he ''blew his first fuse'' when he was 14 ''while trying to dim the lights for a high school play.'' The same year he saw a magician named the Great Thurston perform in a Milwaukee theater and was fascinated by the dazzling lights onstage. ''I went home in a dream,'' he said, adding that whenever he closed his eyes, he saw the lights. ''I have been obsessed with light ever since. Other boys played with footballs and postage stamps. I played with light.''
        This obsession accompanied him to the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh. He studied architecture, as the closest available subject to lighting, but left school at the end of his second year.
        After working as a lighting designer at the Goodman Theater in Chicago, he moved to New York (in 1930) and quickly became known as a lighting prodigy. One of his earliest projects was Virgil Thomson's ''Four Saints in Three Acts.'' For the Federal Theater, he designed the lighting for Orson Welles's production of ''Dr. Faustus.'' Because of Mr. Feder's experimental techniques in that show, George Jean Nathan called him ''a genius with light,'' a label he was to wear for the rest of his life.
        In the late 1930's, he was the lighting designer and technical director for all Federal Theater projects (more than 200 productions, including ''The Cradle Will Rock''). He did the lighting for Welles's black ''Macbeth,'' Alla Nazimova's ''Hedda Gabler,'' ''I'd Rather Be Right'' and ''The Skin of Our Teeth.'' In some instances, he also designed the scenery.
        During World War II, while serving as a sergeant in the Air Force, he did the lighting for ''Winged Victory.'' In the 1950's he worked on dozens of Broadway shows, including ''Inherit the Wind,'' ''The Boy Friend'' and ''My Fair Lady.'' The next decade he continued his association with Alan Jay Lerner by lighting ''Camelot'' and ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever.''
        Although he continued to work in the theater, he was increasingly active in what he referred to as ''the larger stage of life,'' expanding his role in the world of architecture. His various projects took him all over the United States. He lighted the El Paso Museum of Art, the Tulsa Civic Center and the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in California. Department stores with Lighting by Feder included Bergdorf-Goodman, Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus. He was also known for his expertise in inventing lighting equipment.
        Mr Feder worked into the 1990's. One project was lighting the murals in the RCA building. His associate, LaVerne Roston, said that his dream had been to light the Sistine Chapel (he had spoken with John Cardinal O'Connor about that possibility) and the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem. Last year he was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by a brother, Theodore, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
        In his office in Manhattan's garment district, Mr. Feder kept a museum-size collection of light bulbs of various sizes, shapes and wattage, and loved to demonstrate and to describe the different kinds for visitors. ''I talk about light as if I came on earth just to play with it,'' he said. Approaching the millennium, he predicted, ''We'll be involved with light in ways we've never seen.''
        On Monday night, the lights at Rockefeller Center and the Empire State Building will be turned off for one hour in honor of Abe Feder, a genius with light.
      