
        Ellis Benjamin Gardner Jr., a retired transportation executive who helped modernize American shipbuilding in the 1960's, died on April 4 at Stamford Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Darien, Conn.
        The cause was lymphoma, his family said.
        Mr. Gardner retired some years ago as president of American Export Industries in New York, a large shipping and trucking concern that once owned American Export Lines. But he spent the larger part of his career with Litton Industries.
        He took charge of Litton's Ingalls Shipbuilding division in 1966 and oversaw the introduction of a new type of shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss. The yard blended the technologies of the assembly line with traditional shipbuilding, a method first used in Europe and Japan.
        Building the shipyard was a risk for Litton because of the relatively unproven nature of the construction method at the time, at least in this country, but it paid off during a period when many of America's yards were becoming obsolete or failing.
        As president of Ingalls and senior vice president of Litton's marine group, Mr. Gardner was responsible for constructing a new generation of automated cargo ships for American President Lines at the Pascagoula yard.
        Born in Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Gardner graduated from Columbia University in 1940. He trained as an Army Air Forces navigator in World War II before starting a business career with General Electric.
        Starting in 1947, Mr. Gardner spent 19 years at Hewitt-Robins Inc. in Stamford, a maker of industrial components and materials, where he rose to executive vice president. After the company became a Litton subsidiary, he moved to Litton's marine operations.
        He left Litton in 1971 to join American Export Industries, which also had shipping interests, as chief executive. The company ran into financial trouble in the 1970's, sold American Export Lines, the shipping division, in 1978 and was itself sold later.
        Mr. Gardner is survived by his wife of 55 years, Elizabeth List Gardner; two daughters, Kathryn Gardner Sommers of New Seabury, Mass., and Sara Gardner of Boston; a son, Dr. Benjamin Gardner of Norwich, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      