
        Donald E. Maude, chief economist of the United States unit of Scotia Capital Markets in Toronto and a former senior economist for Merrill Lynch, died on March 27 at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 55.
        The cause of his death was a heart attack, his wife, Kathleen Gustos Maude of Shrewsbury, N.J., said.
        Mr. Maude first gained attention as a financial economist in the late 1970's, when rising oil prices and tightening credit sent the nation's economy into one of the most turbulent periods of the postwar era. From 1978 to 1984, as he rose to the post of chief financial economist at what is now Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, Mr. Maude was frequently sought out by the news media for commentary on the effects of the Federal Reserve's anti-inflation campaign on financial markets.
        As the economy became less unsettled in the mid-80's, the employment prospects for financial economists became more so, and Mr. Maude held positions at several Wall Street firms before finally joining Scotia Capital Markets in 1992. At Scotia, owned by the Bank of Nova Scotia, he was chief United States economist and a member of the board of Scotia Capital Markets (U.S.A.) Inc., its American subsidiary.
        He continued to be sought out by the financial media for his views on economic developments, and appeared frequently as a guest commentator on ''Wall Street Week With Louis Rukeyser'' and on CNBC, the financial news cable channel.
        Mr. Maude, a resident of Shrewsbury, was a former member of the board of trustees of Monmouth College, where he received his undergraduate degree in business administration in 1963. He received his master's in economics from the University of Missouri in 1965.
        Mr. Maude was a member of the Money Marketeers of New York University, the Downtown Business Economics Club and the National Association of Economists.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Kevin L. Maude, and a daughter, Alison K. Maude, both of Shrewsbury; a brother, Lawrence P. Maude of Fort Washington, Pa., and a sister, Judith M. Steiner, of Miami.
      