
        Michael Dorris, a prolific novelist, essayist, critic and educator who won the National Book Award in 1989 for ''The Broken Cord,'' about his adopted son's struggle with fetal alcohol syndrome, was found dead on Friday in a motel in Concord, N.H., where he had taken a room under an assumed name. He was 52.
        Mr. Dorris was found in a room at the Brick Tower Motor Inn with a plastic bag over his head, the police said. Although the medical examiner's report was not to be completed until today, the police said he had apparently committed suicide. They said a note was found at the scene, but declined to give details.
        Mr. Dorris's first success as a writer came with the publication of his first novel, ''A Yellow Raft in Blue Water'' in 1987. His greatest success, however, was ''A Broken Cord'' (1989), a work of nonfiction in which he chronicled the problems suffered by his son, Abel, who suffered from fetal alcohol syndrome. The book brought national attention to the issue and helped spur Congress to approve legislation warning women of the dangers of drinking while pregnant. Abel Dorris was struck by a car and killed in 1992, at 23.
        Michael Dorris, who was part American Indian, earned degrees in English at Georgetown University and anthropology at Yale University before founding the Native American Studies Program at Dartmouth College in 1972.
        He was separated from his wife, the novelist Louise Erdrich, and friends said divorce proceedings were under way.
        Mr. Dorris, a tall and handsome man with a shock of light-brown hair and a commanding presence, had had an extraordinarily intense and cooperative relationship with Ms. Erdrich. They worked so closely that it was often difficult for them to explain which of them had written which parts of their books or decide whose name should appear on the cover as author. Ms. Erdrich won fame on her own with books like ''The Beet Queen'' and ''Love Medicine.''
        The couple met at Dartmouth, where she was one of the first women admitted, in 1976. As recounted in ''The Broken Cord,'' they renewed their acquaintance three years later at a poetry reading Ms. Erdrich gave at Dartmouth and eventually married.
        When he was single, Mr. Dorris had adopted his son and two daughters, all of American Indian descent; after he married Ms. Erdrich, she adopted them as well. Together, they had three more daughters, who live with Ms. Erdrich in Minneapolis.
        Early in Ms. Erdrich's career, colleagues said, Mr. Dorris acted as her editor and agent. Later, as his own writing career blossomed, they worked together, editing and reworking each other's prose.
        ''We have both been interviewed separately, at different times,'' Ms. Erdrich said in 1986. ''But when it comes to our work, it is almost awkward to be alone. We do the work together; we do everything together.''
        Mr. Dorris had been on tour to promote his most recent novel, ''The Cloud Chamber,'' published earlier this year by Scribner & Sons. In recent days, though, he had canceled some longstanding commitments, including a book signing and an appearance at a three-day celebration of the 25th anniversary of the Dartmouth Native American Studies Program, which began on Thursday.
        This month he was to have begun a one-semester stint as Winton Chair Scholar at the University of Minnesota, teaching a course called ''Topics in Advanced Creative Writing: Building Character.''
        Leslie Cooney, a coordinator of the university's creative writing program, said that Mr. Dorris's assistant had called shortly before the course was to have begun to say that Mr. Dorris was ill and would not be able to assume the visiting professorship.
        Charles Rembar, a New York City publishing lawyer who represented both Mr. Dorris and Ms. Erdrich, said that Mr. Dorris had been uncharacteristically out of touch in recent weeks, but that ''it didn't seem remarkable'' because of the writer's recent grueling work schedule.
        Susan Moldow, Mr. Dorris's editor at Scribner's, said that his separation from Ms. Erdrich had been ''a source of considerable pain to him.''
        For years, the couple had lived in a farmhouse outside Cornish, N.H., but in recent years had moved to Minneapolis. Among the things that drew them together, Mr. Dorris told an interviewer, was that they both came from mixed-race backgrounds, including American Indian blood.
        ''I think you have to watch things very closely when you are marginal,'' Mr. Dorris said. ''One observes and imagines a lot of things. It's impossible sometimes not to wish you were absolutely one thing.''
        With Ms. Erdrich, Mr. Dorris wrote ''The Crown of Columbus,'' a novel about Christopher Columbus, in 1991, and ''Route Two and Back,'' a travel memoir, the same year.
        He also published a collection of essays, ''Paper Trail,'' in 1994; a collection of short stories, ''Working Men,'' in 1993, and several children's books, including ''The Window,'' newly published. At the time of his death, he was under contract to write ''A Matter of Conscience,'' also about fetal alcohol syndrome.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two adopted daughters, Sava and Madeline, both of Denver; three other daughters, Persia, Pallas and Aza; and his mother, Mary B. Dorris of Louisville, Ky.
        ''From a publisher's point of view, it was incredible the amount of time he put in working,'' Ms. Moldow said. ''And he was out there until the very end. He was on the road.''
      