
        John Thomas Landry, whose knack for marketing helped turn Marlboro into the world's largest-selling cigarette and whose love of horse racing inspired the Marlboro Cup, died on Sunday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Landry spent most of his career at the Philip Morris Companies, which he joined in the mid-1950's. He retired in 1984 as senior vice president and director of marketing and as a member of the board, to which he was elected in 1972.
        He reached the top of his profession in 1963, when he oversaw development of the ''Marlboro Country'' advertising campaigns, in which the  Marlboro Man rode to fame around the world. He also played key roles in the development and marketing of several other Philip Morris brands, including Virginia Slims, Benson & Hedges and Marlboro Lights cigarettes.
        And among the other notable campaigns he shepherded to success were the Virginia Slims advertisements with the slogan ''You've Come a Long Way, Baby'' and the ''Oh, the Disadvantages'' campaign for Benson & Hedges cigarettes.
        Mr. Landry was also an owner and breeder of thoroughbred race horses. His passion for the sport of kings prompted him to found the Marlboro Cup horse race, the richest thoroughbred event at the time. It was an invitational race sponsored by Philip Morris and was run each fall from 1973 through 1987.
        Secretariat won the first running, beating out a stablemate, Riva Ridge. A later race was the first and only meeting of two Triple Crown champions. In 1978, the sixth Marlboro Cup matched Affirmed, who had become only the 11th Triple Crown winner earlier that spring, against Seattle Slew, who had turned the trick by winning the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes the year before. Seattle Slew won the showdown, scoring a decisive three-length victory over Affirmed.
        Mr. Landry was elected a trustee of both the New York Racing Association and the National Racing Museum in 1983.
        Mr. Landry, who was born in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., served in the Marines in the Pacific during World War II. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1948. Before he joined Philip Morris, he worked in the advertising department of Newsweek magazine.
        At Philip Morris he assumed widening responsibilities as he handled a number of promotion and marketing responsibilities for the company's various brands. He was named group marketing director for tobacco in 1965 and was named executive vice president of Philip Morris USA in 1972, concurrently serving as director of marketing.
        One of the greatest challenges faced by Mr. Landry and the industry stemmed from the increasing evidence about the harmful effects of smoking that began to appear in the 1960's. Television and radio advertising was stopped in 1970. The companies saved millions of dollars on producing and putting their commercials on the air, but no satisfactory substitute medium ever turned up.
        No ''contests, giveaways and promotional circuses'' equal the effectiveness of television, Mr. Landry said that year.
        Mr. Landry was an outspoken defender of his company's products. He denounced antismoking commercials as often false or misleading. ''The tobacco people have remained silent a little too long,'' he said in 1969.
        He served on the Committee on International Sports for the United States Information Agency and as a volunteer coordinator of the advertising council for United States Savings Bonds. He was a past director of Elder Craftsmen, a nonprofit organization endorsed by the National Council on the Aging and the Craft Students League.
        Mr. Landry is survived by his wife of 48 years, Virginia Kavanah Landry; two daughters, Sharon Landry of Rumson, N.J., and Jennifer Landry of Brooklyn; two sons, Jack Jr. of Yonkers, and Thomas of Bronxville; a brother, James, of McLean, Va., and seven grandchildren.
      