
        Denis Compton, a charming and flamboyant athlete who was widely considered one of Britain's greatest cricket players,  died on Wednesday in Windsor, England. He was 78.
        The cause was complications after hip surgery, friends said.
        Throughout a cricketing career of just over 20 years, Compton racked up record after record, including most runs scored -- 3,816 -- and most centuries, or 100-run streaks -- 18 -- in a single season.
        But beyond the impressive statistics, Compton seized the public's imagination with an irrepressible personal style that had people lining up overnight for a chance to see him play and eventually led him to be the first British cricketer in history to hire a business agent.
        Compton, who reached the pinnacle of his cricket career in the 1947 season, is also credited with bringing a sense of style, joy and excitement to the game during a particularly dark time when Britain was recovering from the horrors of World War II.
        In The Guardian, Neville Cardus described it this way:
        ''Never have I been so deeply touched on a cricket ground as in this heavenly summer of 1947, when I went to Lord's to see a pale-faced crowd, existing on rations, the rocket-bomb still in the ears of most -- and see this worn, dowdy crowd raptly watching Compton.
        ''The strain of long years of anxiety and affliction passed from all heads and shoulders at the sight of Compton in full sail, sending the ball here, there and everywhere, each stroke a flick of delight, a propulsion of happy, sane healthy life. There were no rations in an innings by Compton.''
        Denis Charles Scott Compton was born in north London in 1918, the son of a painter and decorator. His talents as a sportsman were clear from the beginning, and at the age of 18 he was playing cricket for Middlesex -- he scored 1,000 runs in his first season -- and soccer for Arsenal, a north London team.
        He was known for his dazzling, often unorthodox play, both in soccer  and in cricket. George Allison, the manager of Arsenal when Compton arrived, recalled how when he gave Compton advice, Compton would politely reply ''Yes, sir'' before proceeding to do exactly what he wanted.
        Compton continued playing, with great success, for Arsenal until 1950. But it was in cricket -- where he was soon playing on the English national team -- that Compton really excelled. Enhancing his talents as a right-handed batsman and a left-handed bowler (roughly equivalent to a pitcher in baseball) were his handsome appearance and considerable charm, which drew the frenzied attentions of fans and potential sponsors alike.
        Many of them wrote to him. But Mr. Compton, highly disorganized and with no nose for business, tended to toss all of his unopened correspondence -- both personal and professional -- into a heavy suitcase, which he carted with him from match to match. Finally, he hired someone to represent him, and among other things negotiated a $1,600-a-year endorsement deal with the hair-product company Brylcreem.
        It was at the tail end of the 1947 season, his best ever, that Compton  injured his knee, an injury that would plague him for the rest of his life and  insure that he never could match his earlier achievements. But he continued to play throughout the 1950's, at one point scoring a phenomenal 278 runs in just four hours and 50 minutes against the Pakistan team.
        He retired from cricket in 1957, having scored a miraculous 38,635 runs, including 122 centuries, in his career. But he remained a familiar and much-loved figure, not least from the Brylcreem advertisements that continued to appear on billboards and the sides of buses throughout Britain. In later years, he wrote a column for The Sunday Express newspaper, worked in advertising, and was a sports commentator for the BBC.
        ''There will be a tear in many an eye at the loss of one of the greatest batsmen cricket has ever known,'' Britain's Prime Minister, John Major, said on Wednesday. ''It wasn't just the game he played, it was the way he played it. Those who saw Denis Compton bat have an imperishable memory of the greatest cavalier of cricket. Quite literally, he is irreplaceable and the memory of him and the way he played will last as long as the game of cricket itself.''
        Mr. Compton, known among friends for being chronically late and hopelessly chaotic (albeit in a charming way), was married three times and divorced twice. He is survived by his third wife, Christine; three sons, Richard, Patrick and Brian, and two daughters, Charlotte and Victoria.
      