
        Eugenie M. Anderson, who in 1949 became the first woman appointed a United States Ambassador, died on Monday at her home in Red Wing, Minn. She was 87.
        Mrs. Anderson had been active in the Democratic Party on the state and national levels when she was appointed Ambassador to Denmark  by President Truman.
        Her interest in international affairs had been stirred by a trip to Europe in 1937, where in Germany she first saw a ''totalitarian state in action,'' as she recalled.
        On her return she spoke frequently on foreign affairs on behalf of the League of Women Voters at a time when much of the Middle West was strongly committed to isolationist policies.
        She joined the Democratic Party in part to oppose Republican isolationists in her election district and worked with Hubert H. Humphrey in the successful effort to eliminate a Communist faction within the Minnesota party. That effort culminated in the Democratic-Farmer Labor Party fusion in 1944.
        She took part in the establishment of Americans for Democratic Action, formed by the party's anti-Communist liberal wing in 1947. She was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, a National Committeewoman, and a campaigner for the re-election of President Truman.
        ''She was a prime force in moving along a good Democratic Party,'' said Orville Freeman, the former Minnesota Governor.
        After her service in Denmark, President Kennedy appointed her in 1962 to head the American legation in Bulgaria, which was then a Communist ally of the Soviet Union.
        The Government of Prime Minister Todor Zhivkov repeatedly made life uncomfortable for her mission, to the point of organizing a rock-throwing demonstration against the legation.
        When the Bulgarian police tried to prevent her aides from passing out literature at the American display in the annual Plovdiv fair, Mrs. Anderson grabbed a handful of leaflets and distributed them herself.
        She retired from the post as Ambassador in 1964.
        President Johnson appointed Mrs. Anderson to represent the United States on the United Nations Trusteeship Council and a year later she served on the United Nations Committee for Decolonization.
        Helen Eugenie Moore was born on May 26, 1909, in Adair, Iowa, one of five children of Rev. Ezekial A. Moore, a Methodist minister, and his wife, FloraBelle.
        She concentrated in music as a student, and attended the Julliard School in New York; her original hope was to become a concert pianist.
        She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      