
        Dr. Irving Wexler, a pediatrician and researcher who in the 1940's pioneered the use of blood exchange transfusions as a treatment for infants born with severe jaundice and anemia as a result of blood group incompatibility with their mothers, died on Saturday in Westwood, Mass. He was 86.
        ''At the time, kids with Rh incompatibility either died or developed cerebral palsy,'' said Dr. Leonard Glass, interim chairman of the pediatrics department at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn. ''This was really the first step in the development of newborn intensive care.''
        In the early 1940's, Dr. Wexler began a long collaboration with Dr. Alexander S. Wiener, the co-discoverer of the Rh factor, which refers to whether a specific protein is present on the surface of red blood cells.
        Drs. Wiener and Wexler helped describe the genetic mechanism behind mother-infant blood group incompatibility. Although most Americans are Rh positive, when a woman lacking the blood protein (Rh negative) carries an Rh positive fetus, she develops antibodies to the blood protein. In subsequent pregnancies involving an Rh positive fetus, the antibodies cause severe jaundice and anemia in the infant.
        In 1947, the doctors published a paper describing the successsful use of exchange transfusion - the complete replacement of an infant's blood - as a treatment for jaundice and anemia related to the Rh factor. They later expanded the therapy to treat children with A-B-O blood group incompatibilities and began using blood tests as a basis for genetic counseling of couples at risk of having such children.
        Although vaccination has long since become the standard preventive treatment for Rh-related incompatibility, exchange transfusions are still used to treat infants with A-B-O incompatibility, Dr. Glass said.
        Dr. Wexler wrote or co-wrote more than 50 papers on human genetics and the detection and treatment of blood-related disorders.
        Dr. Wexler was born on Jan. 4, 1911, in the Bronx. He received his undergraduate degree from New York University in 1933 and graduated from the Duke University School of Medicine in 1939.
        In 1943, Dr. Wexler began practicing pediatrics at the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn, which in 1983 became part of the Interfaith Medical Center. He was associate director of that hospital's pediatrics department from 1967 to 1971. After a brief time at Greenpoint Hospital, he became director of pediatrics at Woodhull Hospital in Brooklyn, retiring in 1980.
        Dr. Wexler was also a teacher, having joined the faculty of SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn in 1952. He was a clinical professor of pediatrics at his retirement in 1980, six years before the center's name was changed to the Health Science Center.
        He is survivied by two sons, John, of Chappaqua, N.Y., and James H., of Newton, Mass.; two sisters, Sylvia Cullicover and Frieda Wachsman, both of Florida, and four grandchildren.
      