
        Helene-Diane Shulman Kravis Ruger, an interior designer known professionally as Hedi Kravis, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Ms. Kravis, who maintained homes in Manhattan and Bedford, N.Y., was 49.
        The cause was cancer, her son, Robert S. Kravis, said.
        With her friend Elissa Cullman, known as Ellie, Ms. Kravis was a founding partner in 1984 of the Manhattan decorating firm of Cullman & Kravis.
        They were among a new breed of interior designer -- young, chic, energetic and enterprising -- who were part of the society they designed for.
        Their natural habitats were the Upper East Side and summer homes in the country. And instead of serving long apprenticeships with well-known decorators or taking courses in interior design, these women began by decorating their own apartments, their husbands' offices and their friends' country retreats.
        For their clients, they enhanced the kind of settings they knew well -- spacious living rooms for parties, paneled libraries for leisure, tables hospitable to guests numbered in the dozens and richly canopied beds for slumber.
        ''If you can really organize a household, you can do anything,'' Ms. Kravis said in an interview in 1987.
        For one assignment, Ms. Kravis and her clients donned sunglasses and sun hats in the first week in January to imagine what summer would be like at a sprawling stucco and shingle house of 8,500 square feet on a site overlooking the Atlantic in East Hampton, L.I., where she had only six months to effect a transformation.
        ''We imagined the landscaping and the not-yet-built tennis court,'' Ms. Kravis said, ''and thought what it might be like to walk through the house and out to play tennis.''
        In 1987, Mrs. Cullman traced the origins of the firm to a movie script that she and Ms. Kravis showed to Stanley Jaffe, a film producer and old friend. ''His reaction was that we were talented, but could we help him refurbish his house in the country and pull his different homes together?'' she said. ''We were obsessive. We went down to the last details -- matchbook covers and guest towels.''
        Both women married young, bore children, traveled, entertained, served on the boards of charities and collected antique English furniture, Chinese porcelain, American folk paintings and modern art.
        Ms. Kravis, whose father, Bernard Shulman, was a psychiatrist, was born and reared in Brooklyn. She graduated from Finch College in 1969 and studied English at Columbia University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
        She was a member of the board of the Irvington Institute for Medical Research and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. She also worked on behalf of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the American Jewish Committee.
        Her marriage to Henry Kravis, the leveraged-buyout specialist, ended in divorce. Her second marriage, to J. Thompson Ruger, an executive of Sturm, Ruger & Company, manufacturers of firearms, was ended by his death in 1993.
        In addition to her son, Ms. Kravis is survived by a daughter, Kimberly R. Kravis, and a sister, Sharon Beckerman, all of Manhattan.
      