
        Tomoyuki Tanaka, who frightened and fascinated generations of children with his series of films featuring an outsize, outdated creature named Godzilla, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86.
        Mr. Tanaka was a prolific film producer with a serious edge and a flair for the experimental, and he worked on six films with the Academy Award-winning Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. But he is most remembered for creating the giant Godzilla, who swallowed bullet trains and knocked down buildings as he lumbered through the streets of Tokyo.
        Years before Japanese cars and computers flooded the stores in the United States, Godzilla was among the first images that struck Americans when they thought of Japan. In his early days, Godzilla was mean, vicious and hideous, destroying everything and everyone in sight.
        But in the later years, Godzilla sometimes took on a more benevolent role, defending the world from even more destructive prehistoric creatures like Megaro and Mothra. In a touch of anti-Americanism, Godzilla outdoes King Kong in one film in the series, though in the American version King Kong wins.
        Godzilla became one of Japan's most memorable creatures, spawning a steady business in dolls, puzzles, video games and other toys for youngsters. In the United States, Godzilla films became so popular that by some accounts, a Godzilla film has been broadcast by some television station in the country nearly every week since 1960.
        Just two years ago Mr. Tanaka, a former chairman of the Toho film studio, announced that he would make his last Godzilla film, ''Godzilla vs. Destroyer.'' It capped a se ries of 22 such movies over four decades, seen, according to Toho, by a combined 85 million Japanese.
        Mr. Tanaka was born in Osaka in 1910. He studied economics before joining Toho in 1940 to produce his first films.
        Mr. Tanaka turned out more than 220 movies, only about one-quarter of them echoing war themes and exploring science fiction. His first Godzilla film, in 1954, was born of a desire to express the horror and fear that enveloped Japan after the American atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. At the time Japan was weak and poor, trying to recover from the devastation of World War II, and many Japanese were resentful of the American soldiers who then occupied the country.
        In the early 1950's, a Japanese fisherman strayed too close to the Bikini atoll in the South Pacific when an American bomb exploded, and he was ultimately killed by radiation. In 1954, as Mr. Tanaka was returning home from a trip to Indonesia, his plane passed over Bikini and he suddenly came up with the idea of a story about a dinosaur aroused from millenniums of slumber by American nuclear testing.
        Mr. Tanaka's plans to make a film with Indonesian partners had collapsed, partly because Japan had no diplomatic relations with the country at the time and the Foreign Ministry had therefore barred a deal.
        ''My plans to make a movie had failed, and so I returned disappointed,'' Mr. Tanaka said in an interview in 1984. ''I felt like doing something big. That was my motivation. I thought of different ideas. I like monster movies, and I was influenced by 'King Kong.' ''
        ''That was just the beginning,'' he said, describing the creation of Godzilla. ''I went through many hardships. The first problem was the title.''
        After scribbling dozens of possibilities on a blackboard, Mr. Tanaka and his team came up with ''Gojira,'' a mixture of gorilla and ''kujira,'' the Japanese word for whale. (For the American market, the name was transliterated as Godzilla.) Then he and his team had to decide what Godzilla would look like. ''We collected many pictures of dinosaurs,'' he told an interviewer. ''The hardest part was the forehead. It took us 10 days to decide on the forehead.''
        Up to 1975, the Godzilla movies often suffered from poorly written scripts. The creature was put into slumber so Mr. Tanaka could reintroduce him to movie audiences in 1984.
        Mr. Tanaka is survived by his wife, Chieko, and three sons.
      