
        Joana Mendes, the daughter of a disgraced Portuguese diplomat who devoted her life to winning recognition of his role in rescuing Jews from the Holocaust, died on March 20 at a nursing home in Mangualde, Portugal. She was 77.
        Her son, Aristides Mendes, said the cause was a stroke.
        To Mrs. Mendes it was a matter of family pride that during three fateful days in June 1940, her father, Aristides de Sousa Mendes do Amaral e Abranches, then the Portuguese consul general in Bordeaux, France ignored Lisbon's orders not to issue transit visas to Jews trying to flee the Nazi occupation of France.
        From June 17 to June 19, 1940, he personally issued visas to an estimated 10,000 Jews and 20,000 other refugees seeking to flee the Nazis.
        For his defiance of the Portuguese dictator, Antonio de Oliveira Salazar, Dr. Mendes was arrested, hauled back to Lisbon, stripped of his pension and barred from practicing law. The once-wealthy aristocrat was left to descend into poverty before his death in 1954.
        Although it has since been widely recognized that Dr. Mendes saved more Jews from the Holocaust than anyone except the Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg, the record was clouded because Salazar rejected Dr. Mendes's appeal for reinstatement in 1945 and gave credit for the rescue of Jews to diplomats who, in fact, had obeyed the orders not to grant them visas.
        As a later, long-suppressed Portuguese Foreign Ministry report found, Dr. Mendes, who said he had acted as a Christian, had been disparaged because he was a descendant of Jews forced to convert to Catholicism in 1497.
        By 1967, largely because of the efforts of Mrs. Mendes, who moved to New York after the war, her father's story had been so well documented that he was honored in Israel as a Righteous Gentile, with a tree planted in his name at the Yad Vashem memorial to Holocaust victims in Jerusalem.
        But even after the death of Salazar in 1970 and the overthrow of the remnants of his regime in 1974, Dr. Mendes remained without honor in his homeland.
        After her return to Portugal in 1979, Mrs. Mendes stepped up her campaign, but it was not until she enlisted the support of a brother in the United States that American pressure led Portugal to acknowledge her father as a hero in 1987.
        In addition to her son, who lives in Rome, N.Y., Mrs. Mendes is survived by four brothers: Pedro Nuno of Sintra, Portugal; John Paul Abranches of Mesa, Ariz.; Sebastian of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Carlos of Los Angeles, and a sister, Teresa Swec of Rippon, Calif.
      