
        Dionis Coffin Riggs, a poet, author, newspaper columnist and civic leader who made Martha's Vineyard her home and her passion for the better part of a century, died on April 20 at Cleaveland House, the West Tisbury, Mass., boardinghouse where she had listened to seafaring tales as a child and told them as an old woman. She was 98 and had conducted her regular living room poetry seminar there less than a week before her death.
        For someone who graduated from Girls' High School in Brooklyn, spent more than 30 years as a school principal's wife in Jersey City and had a later-life fling with poetry in Turkey, Mrs. Riggs had an uncommon attachment to Martha's Vineyard.
        But as a descendant of Athearns, Mayhews, Butlers, Looks and other of the island's first families, Mrs. Riggs, who was born on Martha's Vineyard, in Edgartown, had its history in her blood and its turn-of-the-century sounds in her ears.
        To the end of her life, Mrs. Riggs, who could remember when Edgartown's streets were paved with scallop shells, savored the recollected sounds of horses' hooves and wagon wheels crunching down Main Street.
        She also had a keen ear for her sea captain grandfather's stories of adventure at sea and calamity at home. As Mrs. Riggs recounted it in her 1940 best seller, ''From Off Island,'' when her 28-year-old grandfather James F. Cleaveland returned from a voyage in 1852 with a 16-year-old Irish Catholic bride from Australia, his mother was not amused.
        Indeed, the woman was so unwelcoming to her new daughter-in-law that the young woman talked her husband into taking her along on a five-year voyage. She returned triumphant with two daughters and enough tales to keep her granddaughter, Mrs. Riggs, enthralled for the rest of her life.
        It was a family tragedy that gave Mrs. Riggs the opportunity to hear these and other tales firsthand. Her father, Thomas Coffin, a tea taster, left home when she was 3 and never returned, forcing her mother first to open a boardinghouse in Edgartown and later to leave her daughter with her parents to pursue teaching jobs in Pennsylvania and Brooklyn.
        By the time Mrs. Riggs joined her mother for her high school years in Brooklyn, she had a fund of stories and a yen to tell them. But it was not until well after she had obtained a teaching certificate in New Jersey and had taught there just long enough to realize she couldn't stand it, that she began to find outlets.
        After her 1922 marriage to Sidney Noyes Riggs, who worked as an experimenter with Thomas Edison before becoming a school principal, Mrs. Riggs, an inveterate club woman and volunteer, began writing plays for various women's clubs and later turned out numerous articles on Martha's Vineyard history.
        A childhood interest in poetry had been suppressed. Her first effort drew such a bemused reaction from her older sisters, she later recalled, that she wrote no more poems for years. But after entering a poetry contest at the urging of a New Jersey friend and winning a $1 prize, Mrs. Riggs let go with a flood of pent-up poetry.
        Her clear, simple and affecting poetic observations so delighted newspaper and magazine editors that she eventually published more than 1,000 poems, many in The Christian Science Monitor and her hometown newspaper, The Vineyard Gazette.
        Mrs. Riggs, who always spent summers on Martha's Vineyard, retired there with her husband in 1954, and after his death in 1975 converted the sprawling family home into a bed and breakfast catering to poets.
        When she visited a daughter in Turkey, where her son-in-law had been sent by the State Department, Mrs. Riggs became so involved with the local poetry scene that she helped translate hundreds of Turkish poems into English. Her desire to return and continue the work when she was almost 90 was thwarted because she failed to win a Fulbright Fellowship.
        Mrs. Riggs, who was long active in virtually every civic organization in West Tisbury, especially enjoyed her weekly readings to schoolchildren (they called her ''cool'') and at a local nursing home, where she was older than her ''elderly'' listeners.
        As the West Tisbury correspondent for The Vineyard Gazette, Mrs. Riggs always began her weekly column with a haiku (she enjoyed the challenge) and never overlooked an important event. Her last column, published two days before her death, included the news that a neighbor's goat had given birth to triplets.
        She is survived by three daughters, Alvida Jones, Ann Fielder and Cynthia Riggs, all of West Tisbury; 14 grandchildren, and 22 great-grandchildren.
      