
        Russell G. Cleary, who built the G. Heileman Brewing Company into one of the largest breweries in the country, died on Thursday in the Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center in La Crosse, Wis., of complications from heart surgery. He was 63.
        Mr. Cleary, who was chairman of the Wisconsin company from 1971 to 1989, had a reputation as a tough maverick who aggressively expanded the company with the purchase of smaller breweries and then diversification into bakeries, snack foods and aviation parts.
        Mr. Cleary ''pulled off the strategy better than anyone else of buying smaller regional breweries and combining them,'' said Benjamin Steinman, the editor of Beer Marketer's Insights, a trade industry newsletter.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Cleary was drawn into the brewing business after marrying Gail Kumm, the daughter of Heileman's then-chairman, Roy E. Kumm. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School in 1957 and later practiced law in his hometown, La Crosse, which was the headquarters for Heileman.
        In 1960, his father-in-law asked him to join him in the brewing business and 11 years later Mr. Cleary took charge of Heileman at age 36 after Mr. Kumm's death. With Mr. Cleary at the top, Heileman started buying breweries, including Carling National Breweries, the makers of Colt 45 and Black Label beer.
        But eventually Heileman became the target of a takeover as its market share was shrinking and its profits faltering. In 1987, Mr. Cleary presided over the more than $1 billion sale of Heileman to Alan Bond, the Australian businessman. Two years later, Mr. Cleary announced his retirement, but he returned to Heileman in 1993 to help revive the company for its new owners, the Dallas investment firm of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst. Heileman, which filed for bankruptcy twice in the last five years, was purchased in July by the Stroh Brewery Company of Detroit.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Cleary was president of the Cleary Management Corporation, a development company. In December, he announced the purchase of the former Heileman corporate center to provide offices for a software company.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cleary is survived by two daughters, Kristine Coffey of Milwaukee and Sandra Heise of La Crosse, and two grandchildren.
      