
        Gerald Freund, a veteran foundation administrator who was the first director of the MacArthur Foundation's Prize Fellows Program, giving large awards that became known unofficially and perhaps enviously as ''genius grants,'' died yesterday in his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 66 and also had a home in Wilton, Conn.
        He had lung cancer, said his wife, Peregrine White Whittlesey.
        Mr. Freund spent four decades working with philanthropic organizations and in the academic world. He drew on that experience to criticize foundations in a book he wrote, ''Narcissism and Philanthropy: Ideas and Talent Denied'' (Viking, 1996), contending that many foundations had acquired what he called ''an ingrown, narcissistic tendency.''
        In his book Mr. Freund maintained that many foundations failed to keep in view what he called their chief role: finding, sustaining and promoting the development of gifted individuals in the fields of the humanities, sciences and arts.
        From 1980 to 1983 he was with the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation as a vice president, and he organized and administered its Prize Fellows Program, which began making awards to creative individuals that each totaled more than $100,000 a year over a period of five years. In 1979 he worked for the foundation as a development consultant.
        He was also dean of the humanities and arts at Hunter College from 1971 to 1980, and from 1960 to 1969 he was at the Rockefeller Foundation, serving as assistant director of social sciences and as associate director of humanities, social sciences and arts.
        Mr. Freund was born in Berlin to Kurt Freund and the former Annelise Josephthal. The family fled Hitler's Germany, going to Britain and then, in 1940, to New York. Mr. Freund received a bachelor's degree from Haverford College in 1952 and a doctorate in modern European history from Oxford in 1955.
        He went on to teach at Haverford and to be an aide to Kingman Brewster Jr., president of Yale, in 1969 and 1970 and executive vice president of the Film Society of Lincoln Center in 1970 and 1971.
        In recent years he was director of the Whiting Writers' Awards, senior consultant to the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund and president of Private Funding Associates, a philanthropic advisory organization. His other work included setting up and administering the Rona Jaffe Awards, which go only to women writers, and the Lillian Gish Prize in the arts. He also advised the McDowell Colony, and a fellowship there has been endowed in his name.
        Mr. Freund wrote the books ''Unholy Alliance'' (1957), about Russian-German relations from 1917 to 1926, and ''Germany Between Two Worlds'' (1961).
        His 1956 marriage to Jane Bicker Shaw Trask ended in divorce in 1970.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1976, he is survived by three sons, Jonathan, of Los Angeles, Matthew, of Kennewick, Wash., and Andrew, of Deerfield Beach, Fla.; and three grandchildren.
      