
        Ethel Leah Heins, a specialist in  books for young readers, died on May 8 at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. She was 79, and lived in Newton.
        The cause was complications from a fall, said Gregory Maguire, a friend.
        Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book Magazine, a leading review journal of children's literature published in Boston. In all, her association with Horn Book spanned four decades, her last review, of Sharon Creech's ''Chasing Redbird,'' appearing in the current issue.
        Another recent contribution by Mrs. Heins was a retelling of Russian fables by Ivan Krylov. She worked with a Russian translator to stay close to the author's language and spirit while mindful of the American child as the intended reader. ''The Cat and the Cook and Other Fables of Krylov'' appeared in 1995.
        Mrs. Heins, who was born in Manhattan and whose name was originally Ethel Yaskin, graduated from Douglass College, Rutgers University in 1938.
        She undertook graduate studies at Columbia and Harvard Universities while working as a children's librarian at the New York and Boston Public Libraries from 1938 to 1962.
        Until 1974, she was a librarian and specialist in instructional materials for the Lexington public schools in Massachusetts. Her association with Horn Book began years before.
        Mrs. Heins's husband, Paul, an English professor, author and translator of the Brothers Grimm, was editor of Horn Book from 1967 to 1974. She succeeded her husband as editor in 1974 and retired from the post 10 years later.
        Mrs. Heins was a founder of the Center for the Study of Children's Literature at Simmons College in Boston, where she also taught as an adjunct professor for 10 years.
        Mrs. Heins's husband died last year. She is survived by a son, Peter S. Heins of Thousand Oaks, Calif.; a daughter, Margery E. Heins of Shelburne Falls, Mass.; a sister, Miriam Heins of Ann Arbor, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      