
        Dr. John G. Haddad Jr., an endocrinologist who created the standard test for vitamin D levels in the blood, died in Paris on May 22 while on his way to a medical meeting. He was 59 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        Dr. Haddad was associate chairman for research in the department of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, where he had worked since 1980.
        In addition to his vitamin test, he found evidence of a link between vitamin D and the immune system. A colleague at Penn, Dr. Frederick S. Kaplan, said Dr. Haddad had observed that protein molecules that bind to vitamin D also played a role in the way the immune system protects the body during trauma.
        In the 1960's at Washington University in St. Louis, Dr. Haddad developed the test for vitamin D levels, said his mentor, Dr. Louis Avioli, director of bone and mineral disease at the Washington University School of Medicine.
        Vitamin D is normally absorbed from a number of foods and is routinely added to milk, but some people cannot absorb it and develop diseases as a result. Thus the careful measurement of the vitamin is crucial.
        Dr. Haddad's test sets up a kind of competition: A person is given vitamin D with radioactivity that makes it traceable and it seeks binding sites on protein in the blood. The more natural vitamin D already occupying the sites, the less the radioactive substance can bind. The result of the competition indicates the vitamin D levels.
        Beyond that, said another colleague at Penn, Dr. Peter J. Snyder, Dr. Haddad made the world aware of osteoporosis. ''Fifteen years ago, few people spoke of it,'' Dr. Snyder said. ''That simply is not the case today.''
        Dr. Haddad was born in New Orleans, received a bachelor's degree at Tulane University in 1958 and earned his medical degree there in 1962. He was a resident at Charity Hospital in New Orleans, where he played saxophone in jazz groups to help pay his costs. He went on to training in endocrinology at the University of Virginia Medical School in Charlottesville and later joined the faculty of Washington University.
        He was co-founder and past president of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
        He is survived by his wife, Julia; a daughter, Margaret of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a son, John 3d of Lemont, Pa., and a sister, Joanne Daniel of Memphis.
      