
        Nathan R. Sobel, a beloved Brooklyn lawyer, judge and adviser to several state political leaders whose career spanned seven decades, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 91.
        The cause was complications from an adverse reaction to medication for gout, a close friend, Surrogate Renee R. Roth of Manhattan, said.
        ''He was sui generis,'' said Judge Roth, who worked as a clerk for Judge Sobel when he was Brooklyn Surrogate from 1969 to 1976. ''His contributions to the law were profound and his legal intellect was extraordinary, but I think he would want to be measured by his contributions and interaction with everyone with whom he came into contact.''
        Nathan Sobel was born in 1906 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan but moved to Brooklyn -- the borough with which he would become identified -- as a small boy and grew up in the Borough Park and Brownsville neighborhoods. He graduated from Boys High School in 1922 and went straight to Brooklyn Law School's night school. His legal career, however, began even before he entered law school, when he began clerking at a Wall Street firm, Black, Varian & Simon, where he was paid $4 a week and operated the switchboard at lunch time.
        After law school and five years of clerking, Judge Sobel passed the bar and, without stopping to catch his breath, began climbing quickly in the state's legal and political establishment. In 1928, he was appointed counsel to the minority leader of the New York State Assembly, and a year later, counsel to the Speaker of the House. In 1937, he was appointed counsel to Gov. Herbert H. Lehman and helped develop one of the first workers' compensation laws in the nation.
        Six years later, Judge Sobel was elected a County Court judge in Brooklyn and spent 20 years there, trying about 2,000 jury cases, including more than 100 capital cases. ''He was the first to recommend counsel for indigent defendants before the Supreme Court ruled on the issue in the early 1960's,'' Judge Roth said.
        In 1962, when the County Court merged into the Supreme Court, Judge Sobel became a justice of the Supreme Court and oversaw civil cases for five years. In 1967, he was elected Brooklyn Surrogate. He spent set precedent on such legal issues as the inheritance rights of illegitimate children as well as adoptions and trusts.
        Judge Roth recalled that shortly after his election as Brooklyn Surrogate, Judge Sobel sequestered himself in a hotel room for a week between Christmas and New Year's studying the statutes that related to surrogate practice. ''It was new to him, and he didn't want to be disturbed,'' she said. ''He wanted to be prepared when he took the bench on Jan. 2.''
        Judge Sobel wrote ''The New Confession Standard: Miranda v. Arizona'' (Gould, 1966) and published other books and many law review articles on search and seizure and other constitutional issues.
        ''He was one of the most scholarly judges to sit on the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn and in Brooklyn Surrogate Court,'' said Judge Edward R. Korman of United States District Court in Brooklyn.
        Judge Sobel also served as a delegate to the New York State Constitutional Convention in 1967 and an earlier convention, in 1938.
        In 1972, Mr. Sobel was awarded the highest accolade given by the Brooklyn Bar Association for outstanding service. Though he retired in 1976, Mr. Sobel maintained a practice dedicated to trusts and estates and represented, pro bono, a number of judges called before the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct and scores of attorneys who faced legal disciplinary proceedings.
        Mr. Sobel's life was not entirely spent on the legal stage. Early in his career, he met through his legal work luminaries of the theater world like Edward G. Robinson, John Garfield, Richard Rogers and Lorenz Hart. Years later, Mr. Sobel would perform marriages behind the curtains at musical productions.
        ''He was such a sweet human being,'' Judge Roth said. ''He was friends with waiters, barbers and shoeshine men, and they were all the same to him, and he spoke to them the same as he would to the President.''
        No softie, Judge Sobel was a noted boxer who competed in amateur competitions in the 1920's.
        Mr. Sobel, who lived on Columbia Heights overlooking the promenade in Brooklyn Heights, never married and left no immediate survivors except for a nephew, Henry Sobel of Saugerties, N.Y.
        Even so, many who felt touched by him will gather today at 1 P.M. in Room 261 in the State Supreme Court Building on Adams Street in Brooklyn to say farewell. The casket is expected to lie before the bench, in the manner of a state funeral.
        ''It's something very rare,'' Judge Roth said. ''But he was a rare man.''
      