
        John H. Sengstacke, the outspoken longtime owner of The Chicago Daily Defender and a tight-lipped perennial power in Chicago and national politics, died on Wednesday at a Chicago hospital. He was 84.
        His family said the cause was complications of a stroke.
        Mr. Sengstacke was also the owner  of weekly newspapers in Detroit, Pittsburgh and Memphis, and in his more than 60 years as one of the nation's most prominent black newspaper publishers, Mr. Sengstacke issued his share of clarion calls for racial equality and social justice. He  played important public roles in the struggle for integration and civil rights, including membership on the Presidential advisory panel that paved the way for the integration of the armed services in 1949.
        But for all the headlines at his command and all his myriad Presidential appointments, Mr. Sengstacke felt he was often most effective operating quietly behind the scenes.
        ''He knew how to keep his mouth shut,'' is the way his son, Robert Abbott Sengstacke, put it yesterday.
        To a newspaper editor in Chicago in 1955, at least, it would not have seemed at all helpful to publicize the fact that that he and his friend, William L. Dawson, a South Side political boss and Congressman, had personally tapped an obscure Cook County Clerk and former state legislator named Richard J. Daley to unseat the race-baiting Democratic incumbent, Martin H. Kennelley, as Mayor of Chicago.
        The Dawson-Sengstacke power play paid off when Mr. Daley won the primary and the election and opened the city payrolls to a flood of black job seekers in his 21 years in power.
        For Mr. Sengstacke, who had been using political leverage with Presidents for more than a decade, electing a mayor was old hat and simply reflected the savvy he had been using since his days as a teen-age printer's devil, or apprentice, on an uncle's newspaper that became his own.
        A native of Savannah, Ga., and the son and grandson of Protestant ministers, Mr. Sengstacke was a product of what surely must be one of the nation's most accomplished German-African-American families.
        His great-grandfather, Hermann Sengstacke, was a prosperous German sea captain plying the lucrative Bremen-Savannah run when he became so moved at seeing a slave girl named Tama put on the auction block in 1847 that he bought her on the spot and later married her.
        After her death, their son and daughter were brought up by relatives in Germany, but when the son returned to Savannah in 1869, he fell in love with and married a former slave, Flora Butler Abbott, a widow with a 1-year-old son.
        The boy later adopted the name Robert Sengstacke Abbott and became famous as the man who founded The Defender as a weekly in Chicago in 1905 and made it such an influential voice throughout black America that he was credited with stimulating the mass immigration to Chicago from the South.
        As the son of Mr. Abbott's half brother, the Rev. Herman Alexander Sengstacke, Mr. Sengstacke idolized his uncle, graduated from his alma mater, the Hampton Institute in Virginia, and after working on The Defender on summer vacations, joined the paper full time in 1933 at the age of 21.
        Ostensibly he was his uncle's assistant, but with Mr. Abbott's health in sharp decline, Mr. Sengstacke virtually ran the paper before formally taking over after his his uncle's death in 1940. His Sengstacke Enterprises now operates The Michigan Chronicle in Detroit, The Tri-State Defender in Memphis and The New Pittsburgh Courier.
        As the proprietor of a major black newspaper empire, Mr. Sengstacke, who preferred the title editor and appointed others as publishers, realized that the power of the black press could be magnified through a strong joint association. But at a time when many black publishers openly despised one another, his efforts to form a powerful Negro Newspaper Association were undercut when other publishers sent underlings to the initial meetings.
        Ever resourceful at indirect political maneuvering, Mr. Sengstacke used a Chicago friend, Mary McLeod Bethune, a confidant of Eleanor Roosevelt, to get President Franklin D. Roosevelt to agree to meet with the nascent publisher's group. When the notice for the next meeting included a reference to the planned White House gathering, the other publishers made it a point to attend.
        As president of the group, now known as the National Newspaper Publishers' Association, Mr. Sengstacke proved to be a master at wielding its political leverage. He almost casually persuaded President Roosevelt to allow the first black reporter at a Presidential news conference, for example.
        t Although Mr. Sengstacke transformed The Defender into a daily in 1956, the paper's glory days were clearly behind it. Still, with a circulation of about 25,000 and a claimed readership of more than 100,000, it remains influential among black Chicago readers.
        But if some eyebrows were raised, say, when the black-owned paper endorsed Mayor Richard M. Daley, the son of the former Mayor, over a black rival, for Mr. Sengstacke it was politics as usual.
        In addition to his son, a photographer, Mr. Sengstacke is survived by a brother, Frederick, a Defender executive; two sisters, Ethel Sengstacke and Flaurience Collins, both of Chicago, and six grandchildren.
      