
        Myron Ruscoll Sharaf, biographer and interpreter of Wilhelm Reich, the Austrian-born psychiatrist and biophysicist, with whom he had an agonizingly complex personal relationship, died on May 13 while on a  trip to Europe. He was 70 and lived in Newton Highlands, Mass.
        Dr. Sharaf, a teacher and psychotherapist, had gone to Vienna, where he addressed a conference marking Reich's centennial. He was in Berlin visiting a colleague when he died. His family said the cause appeared to be  a heart ailment.
        Dr. Sharaf had faculty appointments at Tufts and Harvard Universities for many years. At his death he was a lecturer in psychiatry for Harvard Medical School at Cambridge Hospital. He also maintained a private practice in Newton and Cambridge.
        He was the author of ''Fury on Earth: A Biography of Wilhelm Reich'' (1983), a title taken from James Agee's ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.'' He chose it as his epigraph for a deeply troubled man who had succeeded in offending nearly everyone and was much maligned by nearly all in turn.
        Dr. Sharaf knew Reich intimately from 10 years as his student, disciple, patient and colleague, and he personally suffered from his mentor's often bizarre conduct. Reich himself was a favorite of Sigmund Freud but broke with him and his psychoanalytic orthodoxy to pursue his own concept of ''orgastic potency,'' or ''orgone energy.''
        Dr. Sharaf's biography portrayed his subject with strenuous objectivity, detailing how a Federal investigation into Reich's invention of a device that he claimed would restore a person's energy led to his conviction under the Food and Drug Act. He was sent to a Federal prison, where he died in 1957. The book made clear that most forms of therapy practiced today include some facet that Reich pioneered but for which he is given little credit.
        Myron Sharaf was born in Miami and graduated in psychology from Harvard College in 1949. He earned an M.Ed. at Tufts in 1953 and an Ed.D. at Harvard in 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, Giselle Varadi Sharaf; a son, Paul, of Indianapolis; and a sister, Shelley Fish of Boston. His first marriage, to Grethe Hoff, ended in divorce after she had an affair with Reich, according to Dr. Sharaf's book.
      