
        Elliott Merrick, a writer, editor, teacher, farmer and sailor who distilled his experiences into acclaimed, enduring books about Labrador and northern Vermont, died on April 22 at his home in Asheville, N.C.. He was 91.
        His ''Northern Nurse'' (1942) told the epic tale of Kate Austen, an Australian nurse he met and married in remotest Labrador, where he journeyed in 1929 to teach at a mission school. The book was on national best-seller lists for months.
        Mr. Merrick's last novel was ''Green Mountain Farm'' (1948), a tale of farm life in northern Vermont, where he and his wife took refuge during the Depression. It remains in print today, as do ''The Long Crossing and Other Labrador Stories'' and his very first book, ''True North,'' a diary about living in Goose Bay, Labrador, originally published in 1933.
        Elliott Tucker Merrick 3d was born in Montclair, N.J., and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale University. He tried newspaper work in Passaic, N.J., and a lucrative advertising job in Manhattan and hated both.
        His next stop was the Grenfell Mission's northernmost school on the  desolate Labrador coast. He traveled to interior lakes and rivers and wrote of the region's inhabitants in ''Front and Fire'' (1939).
        He taught English at the University of Vermont, worked as an editor for the Office of War Information and joined the merchant marine in World War II, which provided the background for ''Passing By'' (1947). He also wrote for magazines, including The New Yorker and Reader's Digest.
        Mr. Merrick then joined the United States Forest Service in Asheville, and served for 22 years as a science editor and publications officer at a station responsible for experimental forests in five states. After his retirement, he spent much of his time cruising with his wife on their 20-foot oceangoing sloop.
        Kate Merrick died in 1994. He is survived by his second wife, Patricia Herring Stratton; a son, Austen, of Kansas City, Mo.; a daughter, Susan Hoover of Wenatchee, Wis.; a sister, Josephine Mock of Edwardsburg, Mich.; a brother, Addison, of Craftsbury, Vt.; a stepson, William D. Stratton of Eugene, Ore., six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      