
        Elbridge Durbrow, a retired Foreign Service officer who served in Moscow as the wartime Soviet ally turned into cold-war antagonist and who later led the United States Embassy in South Vietnam at the onset of America's longest war, died last Friday at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif.
        He was 93.
        The cause of death was complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Durbrow, a longtime resident of Washington, moved to California in 1985.
        Mr. Durbrow's diplomatic career spanned 38 years, most of them spent in Europe and Southeast Asia. He retired in 1968.
        President Eisenhower named him Ambassador to South Vietnam in 1957, when Indochina meant little to Americans. The French, trying to recover and hold their colonies in the region, had been routed at Dien Bien Phu by the Viet Minh forces three years earlier.
        Since then, Washington's determination to hold Communism at bay in the region had led to a low-profile political and military presence in newly divided Vietnam; little of it was noticed at home. For Mr. Durbrow, however, Saigon quickly turned into a diplomat's bad dream.
        On the one side, he had to deal with the authoritarian regime of Ngo Dinh Diem and a morass of corruption and ineffectiveness that was hard to overlook. Another bane was American military leaders who considered themselves omniscient.
        Disgruntled senior Vietnamese officers sought to enmesh him in their cabals against President Diem. He refused, telling them that Washington was supporting the Diem Government, at least for a while, even as he shed his own illusions about the situation.
        In April 1961, President Kennedy formed a committee to chart an array of programs, from military to economic support to social reform, that would keep Diem in power and the Communists away from South Vietnam. Kennedy also replaced Mr. Durbrow because Diem had tired of his aloofness.
        In the late 1940's, Mr. Durbrow had been posted to the Soviet Union at an equally dramatic moment in history, when the cold war nearly froze East-West relations for decades. The situation he encountered was a prelude to the confrontation that took shape in Southeast Asia 10 years later.
        After serving as chief of the Eastern European division of the State Department in Washington in the mid-1940's, he spent two years in Moscow as Counselor of Embassy and Deputy Chief of Mission from 1946 to 1948 under Ambassador Gen. Walter Bedell Smith, succeeding George F. Kennan. It was his third tour in the country, and he strongly warned his superiors of Soviet expansionism and efforts to divide and subvert the West.
        Born in San Francisco, Elbridge Durbrow was a philosophy graduate of Yale University. He continued his studies at Stanford University, at the University of Dijon in France, the Academie de Droit International de la Haye in the Netherlands, the Ecole Libre des Sciences Politiques in Paris and the University of Chicago, where he studied international economics and finance.
        He started his career as a vice consul in Warsaw in 1930 and rose through the ranks in Bucharest, Moscow, Naples, Rome and Lisbon. He was an American delegate to the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference that chartered the World Bank.
        He also served as a delegate to the NATO Council in Paris from 1961 to 1965, and as State Department adviser to the National War College in Washington and the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., the post from which he retired in 1968.
        After that he wrote and lectured on foreign affairs. In the 1970's he was chairman of the American Foreign Policy Institute and a director of the Freedom Studies Center in Boston, Va.
        Mr. Durbrow is survived by his wife of 32 years, Benice Balcom Durbrow; two sons from an earlier marriage, Chandler W. 2d of Arlington, and Bruce C. of High Point, N.C., and a granddaughter. His first wife, Emily Moore Durbrow, died in 1964.
      