
        Sir John Carew Eccles, an Australian neurophysiologist whose research illuminated some of the most mysterious yet most basic functions of human nerve cells and won him a share of a Nobel Prize, died on Friday at his home in Switzerland. He was 94 and for the last 22 years had lived in retirement in Contra, a small town in the southeastern part of the country.
        He turned a boyhood fascination with the complexities and curiosities of the human brain into a lifelong academic mission: a career as a researcher, teacher and author that spanned more than half a century and was spent at prestigious schools and institutes around the world, including the American Medical Association's Institute for Biomedical Research in Chicago and the State University of New York at Buffalo.
        ''He was fascinated since he was a young boy, since he was 17 years old, to know,'' his second wife, Helena, said. ''Who am I, the self? Why is man different from all other creatures? He always says, 'We are different. We possess something that no one else has. That's the self. That's the mind, which no one knows what it really is, how it is, where it is.' That was his life task.''
        In 1963, Sir John shared the Nobel Prize with two other scientists for work that demonstrated how electrical impulses act across synapses, the junctions between nerve cells. His work essentially proved how, by physics and chemistry, messages are passed from one nerve cell to another, and his conclusions were seen as a key to understanding higher functions of the brain.
        Sir John believed that human progress hinged on understanding the workings of the brain. The 1972 edition of ''Current Biography'' quoted him as saying that ''brain research is the ultimate problem confronting man . . . To the extent that we have a better understanding of the brain, we will have a richer appreciation of ourselves, our fellow men, and of society, and in fact, of the whole world and its problems.''
        He was devoted to neurophysiology above all else, and once, in 1967, he dismissed the study of outer space, saying, ''Why waste billions of dollars chasing a lot of dead rocks whizzing around in a void?''
        John Carew Eccles was born on Jan. 27, 1903, in Melbourne, Australia. From early in his life, his parents, both teachers, stressed the importance of education. He graduated from Melbourne University in 1925 with bachelor's degrees in science and medicine. He received first-place academic honors in medicine and won a Rhodes scholarship to study at Oxford University.
        At Oxford, he sought out Sir Charles Sherrington, then the world's pre-eminent authority on the nervous system, received first-class honors in the natural sciences after two years at Magdalen College, and became a research fellow at Exeter College. He received his master's degree and continued working toward his doctorate as a member of Sir Charles's research team.
        In 1928, he married Irene Francis Miller, with whom he had five daughters and four sons.
        He completed his studies in 1929 and taught at Oxford until 1937 when he returned to Australia as director of the Kanematsu Memorial Institute of Pathology, a division of Sydney Hospital. He was a professor of physiology at the University of Otago Medical School in Dunedin, New Zealand, from 1944 to 1951. In 1952, he moved to the John Curtin School of Medical Research of the Australian National Unversity in Canberra, where he conducted the research that led to his Nobel Prize. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1958, and in 1961 he was appointed to the Pontifical Academy of Science by Pope John XXIII.
        From 1957 to 1961, he was president of the Australian Academy of Science. At Canberra, Sir John used minuscule glass tubes inserted into nerve cells of animals to observe nerve cell activity. He showed how the increase or removal of electrical charges on a nerve cell's membrane result in inhibitory or excitatory action and also discovered that nerve cells have a major effect on muscles and help determine the speed of muscle contraction.
        After winning the Nobel, he began to study high levels of the central nervous system. In 1966, he left the Australian National University to head the American Medical Association's Institute for Biomedical Research in Chicago.
        In 1968, he was divorced and remarried and moved to the State University of New York in Buffalo, where he directed a neurobiology research unit until he retired as an emeritus professor.
        He and his wife settled in Switzerland because he wanted to live in the center of Europe.
      