
        Charles Schlaifer, an advertising agency owner and movie executive whose promotion of the film ''The Snake Pit'' inspired him to become an important advocate of improved mental health care in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Mr. Schlaifer was an executive at 20th Century Fox when he was assigned to promote ''The Snake Pit,'' one of the first movies to deal with the treatment of mental illness. The movie won an Academy Award in 1948. He was deeply moved at an early screening of the film, adapted from the Mary Jane Ward novel and starring Olivia de Havilland as a patient in an asylum. He visited some 50 hospitals in 20 states and, as he recalled in an interview with The New York Times years later, found ''snake pits -- human warehouses, concentration camps, human beings locked away and ignored, people with no rights at all.''
        In the 1950's he joined with the psychiatrist Karl Menninger, the philanthropist Mary Lasker and others in an effort to improve mental health treatment. He testified before Congress several times and served on an advisory council to the Surgeon General from 1950 to 1954, and again from 1977 to 1980.
        From 1955 to 1962, he served on the Joint Commission on Mental Illness and Health, supported by Federal and private money, and was an author of a commission report that helped lead to the passage of Federal legislation in 1963 and adoption of state regulations in the years that followed aimed at improving institutional and community care. From 1960 to 1970, he served on the White House Conference on Children and the White House Conference on the Handicapped.
        Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him chairman of the New York State Health and Mental Hygiene Facilities Improvement Corporation in 1963 and, in 1973, of its successor, the Facilities Development Corporation, which oversaw the building of general and mental health care centers. As a result of his work in the field, he was made an honorary member of the American Psychiatric Association and won the Karen Horney Clinic's Social Conscience Award.
        Mr. Schlaifer was born in Omaha on July 1, 1909, one of six children of Abraham and Sarah Schlaifer, who had arrived from Russia at the turn of the century. After high school, he worked as a reporter on The Omaha World Herald, but he soon switched to the movie business. He became a regional manager for Paramount theaters, and later served as a consultant to Samuel Goldwyn, David O. Selznick, Alexander Korda and others in the movie industry. In 1942, he became vice president for advertising and promotion at 20th Century Fox.
        Colleagues attributed his rise to his imaginative movie-promotion campaigns, which included widely admired posters for films like ''Gentleman's Agreement,'' ''The Thin Man'' and ''The Razor's Edge.'' He told Stephen Rebello and Richard Allen, authors of ''Reel Art: Great Posters from the Golden Age of the Silver Screen'' (Abbeville Press, 1988) that the simple test he would demand of his posters was: ''Would people look, rush to the box office, and buy a ticket? If that didn't happen often enough, I'd be out of a job.''
        In 1949, he founded his own advertising agency specializing in motion pictures, Charles Schlaifer & Company, which he ran for nearly 40 years. In 1987, he sold his agency to Grey Advertising, and retired.
        Mr. Schlaifer's first wife, Evelyn, died in 1978. He is survived by his wife, Ann Mesavage Schlaifer, whom he married in 1980, and two daughters, Roberta Semer of Manhattan, and Arlene Silk of Berkeley, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      