
        Sydney J. Freedberg, an art historian who taught for nearly three decades at Harvard and was chief curator of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 82.
        Mr. Freedberg's writing on the art of the Italian High Renaissance embodied a formalist approach that emulated the patrician scholarly style of an earlier era. His books included monographs on Parmigianino (1950) and Andrea del Sarto (1961), and a monumental ''Painting of the High Renaissance in Rome and Florence,'' which appeared in 1961. He was probably best known, however, for his exhaustive survey titled ''Painting in Italy: 1500-1600,'' first published in 1971 and reissued several times since in the Pelican History of Art Series.
        A thick volume, printed in small type, it touches on the lives and works of hundreds of artists, some renowned, many familiar only to art specialists. A compendium of this kind could easily have been a dry-as-dust list of names and dates, but Mr. Freedberg turned it into something else: a work of dense but lightly worn scholarship, laced with sharp opinions, passionate empathies and piquant turns of phrase.
        Writing about artists he loved, he was eloquent. He describes the emotion conveyed by the paintings of the reclusive Mannerist Jacopo Pontormo as ''removed and crystalline, experienced not in a climate of reality or even of classicizing ideality, but as if in a stratosphere.'' The art of the painter known as Rosso Fiorentino, he wrote, is ''so fine-spun that it is brittle and so exquisite that its sweetness is exasperated, taking on a savor of acidity.''
        Sydney Joseph Freedberg was born in Boston on Nov. 11, 1914. He went to Boston Latin School, then to Harvard, earning a bachelor's degree, summa cum laude, in 1936, and a doctorate in art history in 1940. Harvard was in fact where he spent his life. Apart from a brief stint teaching at Wellesley College, he was a member of the Harvard faculty for nearly 30 years and was Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Fine Arts when he retired in 1983.
        Mr. Freedberg also served as an adviser at Harvard's Fogg Art Museum (he was briefly its acting director), at the Museum of Fine Arts in  Boston and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. After his retirement from teaching, he embarked on a second career as chief curator of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, a position he held from 1983 to 1988.
        He acquired several late Renaissance and Baroque paintings for the museum, organized shows (notably the ''The Age of Correggio and the Carracci: Emilian Painting of the 16th and 17th Centuries''), and supervised the preparation of a systematic catalogue of the collection.
        Another focus of his attention was the Villa I Tatti in Florence, the home of the art historian and connoisseur Bernard Berenson, which was willed to Harvard. Mr. Freedberg had studied in Florence with Berenson and was reported to have been influential in insuring that Harvard accepted the bequest in 1959.  Mr. Freedberg served twice as professor in residence for the Center for Renaissance Studies at I Tatti.
        Not all of Mr. Freedberg's honors were academic. For his espionage work with the British armed forces during World War II he was awarded the Order of the British Empire (Military Division) in 1946. He was named to the rank of Grand Officer in the Order of the Star of Solidarity by the Italian Government for his rescue work during the catastrophic flooding of Florence in 1966, and Grand Officer of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 1982. He received the National Medal of Arts in 1988, and remains the only art historian to have been so honored.
        Students and colleagues remember Mr. Freedberg's distinctive style, in which the turn-of-the-century spirit of Berenson to some degree lingered on. J. Carter Brown, former director of the National Gallery, recalled Mr. Freedberg's sartorial elegance, his booming speaking voice and a ''self-admittedly manufactured accent which gave him the ability to create whole new areas in the English language.''
        Mr. Freedberg is survived by his third wife, Catherine; four children, Sydney Jr., of Washington, William, of Long Meadow, Mass., and Nathaniel and Kate, both of Boston; three grandaughters, and a brother, Charles, of Long Island.
      