
        William A. Koshland, chairman emeritus and former president of the publisher Alfred A. Knopf, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said William T. Loverd, a senior vice president at Knopf, an autonomous division of Random House since 1960.
        Mr. Koshland, born in Boston and a 1928 graduate of Harvard College, began his career at Knopf in 1934. He soon established a close relationship with Alfred A. and Blanche W. Knopf, who founded the house in 1915 in Manhattan and turned its imprint into a seal of quality.
        Modesty was not Mr. Knopf's strong suit, which seemed fine with Mr. Koshland as he worked behind the scenes to extend and strengthen  the firm's relations with authors, booksellers and publishers at home and abroad. He became a regular at the Frankfurt Book Fair well before many other American publishers marked it as a must on their calendars.
        He kept in touch with Knopf's foreign writers, including Thomas Mann, Brendan Behan and Elizabeth Bowen.
        Among the American authors he dealt with were Willa Cather, Ira Gershwin, John Hersey and Robert Nathan.
        Mr. Koshland achieved a major hit when he added ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking'' by Julia Child, Louisette Bertholle and Simone Beck to the fabled Knopf list in 1961. That first volume kindled a revolution in American kitchens as well as a lasting relationship with Julia Child and one of publishing's longest-running  and most lucrative success stories.
        He was named president of Knopf in 1966 and succeeded Mr. Knopf as chairman in 1973. Mrs. Knopf died in 1966 and Mr. Knopf in 1984, having kept in touch with the editors about the editorial content and commercial fortunes of the Knopf list.
        Mr. Loverd, Knopf's publicity director, said that after Mr. Koshland's retirement 20 years ago he maintained contacts with foreign houses and some of the authors he had worked with, and advised on matters like royalties. ''But,'' he added, ''the greatest value of all was that he was the corporate memory of the house.''
        Sonny Mehta, president and editor in chief of Knopf, said yesterday that Mr. Koshland ''epitomized the postwar international publishing community: an urbane, close-knit network that dealt with serious writing, irrespective of where it originated, in a time when publishers did not travel with the frequency they do now.''
        William Abraham Koshland  served as a naval air officer in Asia and the Pacific in World War II, winning the Distinguished Flying Cross, among other decorations. He was a benefactor of Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard University and U.J.A.-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      