
        Alan Gussow, an artist and conservationist, died on Monday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan.
        Mr. Gussow was a landscape painter who combined close-up naturalistic observation with an abstract style.
        In pastel paintings that he showed at MB Modern Gallery in Manhattan last year, passages of undulating horizontal lines suggested both flowing water and fingerprint patterns, summing up the intimate link between man and nature that was Mr. Gussow's central concern.
        Mr. Gussow's career as an artist began after he was awarded a Prix de Rome fellowship in painting in 1953. He was 21 and the youngest winner of the award up to that time. After two years in residence at the American Academy in Rome, he returned to the United States, where he was instrumental in starting the fine arts program at the Parsons School of Design.
        In 1962 he had his first one-man show. Two years later, his interest in the environment began when Con Edison announced plans to build a power plant near Storm King Mountain in the Hudson Valley. A resident of the nearby town of Congers, Mr. Gussow spoke at a legislative hearing about the potentially damaging effect of the proposal. Four years later he resigned as department chairman at Parsons to devote more time to environmental issues and to art.
        As part of his conservation efforts, Mr. Gussow convinced the National Park Service that there should be artists in residence in parks, ''just as there are poets and writers in residence at universities.''
        He served as the first official artist in residence (at the Cape Cod National Seashore) and was instrumental in the creation of more formal programs for artists around the country.
        Mr. Gussow was born on May 8, 1931, in New York City, grew up in Rockville Centre, N.Y., and graduated from Middlebury College. In addition to his long association with Parsons, he taught at Sarah Lawrence College, the University of Massachusetts and the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        He had a retrospective at the Rockland Center for the Arts in West Nyack, N.Y., in 1978 and numerous solo gallery shows. He published several books, the first of which, ''A Sense of Place: The Artist and the American Land'' (1972), brought together the art and words of a wide selection of American landscape painters from the 16th through 20th centuries.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Gussow is survived by his sons, Adam, of Manhattan, and Seth, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and by his brothers, Mel, of Manhattan, an arts writer for The New York Times, and Paul, of Brooklyn.
      