
        Makoto Namba, a world-class match racer and an America's Cup skipper who became the first Japanese sailor to break into the top 10 in the world ranking, fell overboard during an ocean race on April 23 and is presumed lost at sea off Japan. He was 46.
        The Japanese Coast Guard conducted an air and sea search for 72 hours to no avail.
        At the time of the accident, Namba was skipper of the 45-foot yacht, Escape One, which was competing in the Sail Osaka '97, a 1,500-mile sailboat race from Hong Kong to Osaka, Japan. His team of 12 crew members was leading the 40 boats in the competition, said Emili Miura, a spokeswoman for the Japanese America's Cup syndicate, Nippon Challenge.
        She said that Namba was steering the boat at dusk when a 20-foot wave crashed into the yacht and pitched him into the water. ''Unfortunately, he did not happen to be wearing either a life vest or safety harness,'' she said.
        Namba held on to the boat for a few seconds before losing his grip and disappearing into the high seas and dim light, she said. None of the crew members was lost or injured.
        ''He was definitely a team leader,'' said Dyer Jones, director of the America's Cup Challenge Association, a group organizing the 1999-2000 trial races. ''They are devastated.''
        When the Japanese first attempted to win the America's Cup in 1987, Namba was involved from the start. He served as the mainsail trimmer on Nippon, the 1992 Japanese challenge yacht. In the 1995 America's Cup trials, he was skipper and worked closely with John Cutler, a New Zealander who was hired as tactician and helmsman.
        Namba helped bridge the gap between the Japanese sailors and the New Zealanders who became part of the team. While the boat performed credibly in the trials, it did not make it beyond the semifinals off San Diego. Black Magic, a team from New Zealand, won the challenger trials, and went on to win the America's Cup from the United States.
        Namba, a leading competitor on the international match-racing circuit, grew up and lived in Kyoto, Japan. His sailing career began as a student at Kyoto Sango University. After graduation, he worked as a sail maker.
        He is survived by his wife, Mikiko, and a son, Gaku, who live in Kyoto.
      