
        Quentin C. Crommelin, a retired Navy captain who was the last of five Alabama brothers who created a sibling sensation as Navy aviators in World War II, died on Monday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala. He was 78 and lived on the family plantation outside Wetumpka.
        The cause was cancer, his son, Quentin Jr., said.
        The senior Quentin was the youngest of five brothers in a family that had been serving in the Army in wars going back to the Revolution, but by the time he enrolled in the United States Naval Academy in 1937, he was not breaking an old Crommelin (pronounced CROM-i-lin) tradition, merely following a new one.
        It was a tradition that had begun by accident almost two decades earlier when his mother concluded that his oldest brother, John, was having too much fun at the University of Virginia and needed the discipline of a military education. Her first choice was West Point, but when she learned that John's birthday came two days too late for the enrollment deadline, she settled for Annapolis, and so did he, as did each of her four other sons in their turn.
        John, who graduated in 1923, was followed by Henry ('25), Charles ('31), and Richard ('38). By the time Quentin graduated in 1941, his older brothers were already making names for themselves in the Pacific as daring carrier pilots.
        Before the war's end, at least one brother had seen action in every major naval engagement in the Pacific. Quentin, who did sea duty at Guadalcanal, qualified as a pilot in time to lead a squadron in raids over Tokyo.
        Charles and Richard were both killed in action toward the end of the war; Henry, who retired as a vice admiral after a 37-year career, died in 1971 at the age of 66. Ten years later, the guided-missile frigate Crommelin was named in honor of the three brothers who had died.
        John, who had started it all, died last year at 94, having acquired precious little discipline at Annapolis or anywhere else.
        Despite the wartime exploits that won him the nickname Bomb Run John and earned him command of the carriers Saipan and Enterprise, John Crommelin was chiefly remembered as an instigator of the ''Admirals' Revolt'' of 1949. As a top Pentagon planner, he repeatedly spoke out so intemperately against a plan to have naval aviation absorbed into the Air Force that he was all but cashiered, though he was allowed to retired as a rear admiral, even as the revolt was credited with saving naval aviation.
        Quentin, by contrast, knew how to hold his tongue and enjoyed a long career that included command of several fighter squadrons and the carrier Lexington.
        After leaving the Navy in 1973, he retired to Wetumpka to raise cattle.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Wetumpka, Captain Crommelin is survived by his wife, Priscilla; a daughter, Priscilla Ball of Montgomery, and two grandchildren.
      