
        Paulo Freire, a radical Brazilian educator known for his methods of using everyday words and ideas to teach illiterates to read -- and to be skeptical about prevailing social and political systems -- died on Friday in Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paolo. He was 75 and had lived in Sao Paolo since 1981.
        The cause was a heart attack at the hospital after he was admitted there on Thursday after an earlier heart attack, said his stepson Eduardo Hasche.
        Mr. Freire refined his education methods beginning in the late 1950's during literacy campaigns among peasants in the poverty-stricken northeast of Brazil. He propounded them in his best-selling 1970 book, ''Pedagogy of the Oppressed.''
        In teaching literacy, he wanted to generate among his students what he called ''a critical comprehension of reality.'' In applying his techniques, he and his many disciples made use of terms like ''land'' and ''hunger,'' which they selected because the words related to the student's political and social setting, when they taught reading and writing to workers and peasants.
        As Jerome Karabel, a professor of sociology at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote in 1994, Mr. Freire became ''known worldwide for his advocacy of education for 'critical consciousness,' '' and he espoused a ''pedagogy of liberation, which holds that students should be active participants and not passive consumers.''
        In 1989, not long after Mr. Freire was named education secretary of Sao Paolo, the site of Brazil's largest school system, he said in an interview: ''We want to create schools where questioning is not a sin. It's no sin to make a critical study of Brazil's reality. A small percentage own land. Most people don't.''
        Mr. Freire was named to his post after a politically congenial mayor took office in Sao Paolo, which had 12 million inhabitants at the time. He held the Sao Paolo post for three years.
        Despite Mr. Freire's worldwide renown, his Brazilian professional world collapsed in 1964, after a right-wing military coup in his homeland.  He was jailed as a subversive and  spent 15 years in exile. Brazil stayed under military rule for two decades -- during which the Government banned his theories on education.
        During his exile, his ideas came to be better known outside Brazil. He was received with respect at an International Symposium for Literacy in Persepolis, Iran, where he observed in a paper, ''It is not systematic education which somehow molds society, but, on the contrary, society which, according to its particular structure, shapes education in relation to the ends and interests of those who control the power in that society.''
        His exile years were spent mainly in Geneva. He also established literacy programs in Chile and Nicaragua and in nations of Portuguese-speaking Africa, and lectured widely.
        He returned permanently to Brazil in under a political amnesty in 1980, his stepson said.
        By the latter 1980's, Mr. Freire's techniques had been put into use in the United States by black, Hispanic and feminist organizations carrying out literacy programs or training teachers. And Consolidated Edison and some other corporations had sometimes used his methods in education programs for new employees with relatively little education.
        Yesterday, John Devine, the director of the School Partnership Program at New York University, a collaborative venture between that university and inner-city high schools in New York, said, ''We place grduate students into inner city schools where we try to exemplify some of Paulo Freire's principles.''
        After returning to Brazil from exile, he was professor of education for some years at the Catholic University of Sao Paolo, and his stepson Mr. Hasche said he was a part-time lecturer there at his death. Other posts he held in Brazil included serving for a time as general coordinator of the national plan for adult literacy.
        His affiliations outside Brazil included serving as a consultant to Unesco, and working in Geneva for the World Council of Churches' Office of Education.
        He wrote two dozen books, including ''Education for Critical Consciousness'' (1973, Continuum).
        His first wife, the former Elza Maia Costa de Oliviera, died in 1986. He is survived by his second wife, the former Ana Maria Araujo, whom he married in 1987; two sons, Joaquin and Ludgardes; three daughters, Madalena, Cristina and Fatima; four stepchildren, including Mr. Hasche, who lives in Manhattan; and eight grandchildren.
      