
        Alan Harrington, a novelist whose output ranged from black humor to social criticism to chronicles of the heart, died on Friday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 79.
        The cause was leukemia, The Arizona Daily Star reported. The paper said his friends included Jack Kerouac, who visited him in Tucson, and Allen Ginsberg.
        Mr. Harrington's first novel, ''The Revelations of Dr. Modesto'' (1955), helped make him known, as one critic put it, as ''one of the earlier 'black humorists.' ''
        Another reviewer called the book ''a neigh of almost demented laughter'' and ''a satirical comedy in which conformity as a desirable ideal and as a recipe for happiness is mocked, ridiculed and torn into small and bloody pieces.''
        When ''The Secret Swinger'' came out in 1966, the novelist John Knowles wrote, in reviewing it: ''A study of male menopause does not seem the ideal theme for contemporary fiction. Futility, inertia, immobility threaten not only the protagonist of such a novel but also the novel itself. In 'The Secret Swinger,' however, Alan Harrington has avoided making his story as middle-aged as his hero. Instead he has given both a baleful authority expressed in a remorseless drumbeat prose.''
        Banjamin DeMott, Mellon Professor of Humanities at Amherst College, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1981, ''Alan Harrington's odd, original writing career has produced modest, memorable novels such as 'The Secret Swinger' -- sad, acute, splendidly grimy studies of what used to be called the human heart.''
        That praise came in a review of Mr. Harringon's 1981 novel ''The White Rainbow,'' which is about two characters Professor DeMott described as a ''rich, leukemia-battling, Yankee-hating Mexican radicalized at Columbia in the Mark Rudd days'' and ''Harvard's wunderkind in his mid-30's, gifted linguist, man of Viking beauty.'' The Times Book Review designated it as one of the notable books of 1981.
        Besides novels, Mr. Harrington wrote nonfiction books including ''The Immortalist'' (1969), about a future utopia in which death has been conquered by technology.
        Mr. Harrington was born in Newton, Mass., and graduated in 1939 from Harvard College. During World War II he was in the Army Air Forces in Newfoundland.
        From 1946 to 1960 he held jobs as a journalist, editor and public relations man. He also wrote for Harper's and other magazines and taught writing at the University of Arizona.
        His 1941 marriage to Virginia Carrington Hannah and his 1958 marriage to Luba Petrova ended in divorce. He married Peggy Young in 1968, and they separated in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, of Manhattan; two sons, Stephen of Tucson and John of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan Harrington of Berkeley, Calif., and a granddaughter.
      