
        Leslie George Katz, the founder of Eakins Press and a writer on art and literature, died on April 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, said Jane Mayhall Katz, his wife.
        Mr. Katz's long and varied career included writing and directing experimentalist plays in a community center in Brooklyn, writing for Classic Comics, The Nation and the Democratic National Committee and writing speeches for Adlai Stevenson. He was the publisher of Arts magazine in the 1950's, and was a longtime member of the board of the Yaddo artists' colony in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
        He was instrumental in arranging for the Museum of Modern Art to acquire its collection of photographs by Atget. He also contributed to the garden statuary at the Brooklyn Museum of Art by collecting architectural ornaments from demolition sites and delivering them to the museum for preservation.
        But it was with Eakins Press, which he founded in 1966, that Mr. Katz found his metier. He had long had an interest in printing, and the 56 books he published through 1996 were notable for their meticulous, elegant design. The press was known for its books on American photographers, sculptors and poets and on the New York City Ballet. ''Man is and remains a creature of nature capable of cultivation, and art is the measure of his life,'' Mr. Katz wrote in an introduction to Walker Evans's ''Message From the Interior,'' one of the first books published by Eakins Press.
        The press was named after Thomas Eakins, one of Mr. Katz's heroes, and subsidized by money from a sale of paintings by Eakins that came about in the odd, slightly comical way of many of Mr. Katz's adventures. He was born in Baltimore and followed his father to New York City to work with him in advertising. But he had long been interested in the arts and had studied for several years at the avant-garde Black Mountain College in North Carolina.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Katz learned that the paintings were owned by his father, who had collected art secretly, scattering it throughout Baltimore. His father eventually entrusted the paintings to Mr. Katz, who sold them to the collector Joseph Hirshhorn and began Eakins Press.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Katz is survived by a brother, Richard, of Manhattan.
      