
        Ralph Horween, the oldest former National Football League player and a fullback for the unbeaten Harvard team that won the 1920 Rose Bowl, died Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 100.
        He played in the backfield for the Chicago Cardinals from 1921 to 1923, teaming up with his brother Arnold, who was also a runner, the Cardinals' coach in 1923 and '24 and an all-American at Harvard.
        Joining the N.F.L. a year after its founding, the two Harvard men in the rough-and-tumble world of pro football played under the name McMahon.
        ''It was out of respect for their mother, who was a fairly straitlaced Victorian lady and had qualms about whether it was respectable to play pro football,'' Ralph Horween's son Ralph Stow said.
        Born on Aug. 3, 1896, in Chicago, Horween became the first former N.F.L. player to reach age 100.
        He was at fullback, with Arnold at left halfback, when Harvard made the only bowl appearance in its history, facing Oregon in the Rose Bowl before a sellout crowd of 32,000 at the old Tournament Field in Pasadena, Calif., on New Year's Day 1920.
        The Crimson, having won eight games and tied Princeton, were a glamour team. They went Hollywood in a big way, visiting a movie studio and meeting Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and the heavyweight champion, Jack Dempsey, who was shooting a film.
        Horween figured in a play that ended unhappily for him, but would lead to the Crimson's big moment against Oregon.
        His attempt at a drop-kick field goal from the Oregon 45-yard line was blocked and rolled free.
        ''It was the first and only time I had a blocked kick,'' Horween would remember. ''That goes for about 45 or 50 punts and about 10 or 15 drop-kicks. The ball kept rolling toward the sideline. There was a scramble near the grandstand, where Jack Dempsey was sitting, and I hurt my shoulder and passed out.''
        Horween sustained a chipped collarbone and dislocated shoulder. But the man who replaced him, Freddie Church, later scored on a 15-yard run to help give Harvard a 7-6 victory.
        After retiring from pro football, Horween returned to Harvard for a law degree. He later had a law practice, served on a Federal board administering crude oil permits, raised cattle and worked in a family business that has supplied leather for N.F.L. footballs for many years.
        In addition to his son Ralph, of McLean, Va., he is survived by his son Frederick Stow of Montgomery, Tex., and nine grandchildren.
      