
        Dr. Vernal G. Cave, a Brooklyn physician and civic leader whose series of imposing titles tended more to obscure than to reflect his almost half-century of quiet, day-to-day work on behalf of black medical, political and social causes, died on Wednesday at University Hospital of Brooklyn. He was 78 and had been a founding director of both the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation and the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation.
        His wife, Natalie Helene, said the cause was cardiac arrest.
        In 1967, when Senator Robert F. Kennedy came up with an idea for a public benefit corporation to stimulate economic development in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, it was hardly surprising that Dr. Cave ended up as a member of the original board of directors.
        Since establishing his dermatology practice in Brooklyn in the early 1950's, Dr. Cave, a City College graduate who received his medical degree from Howard University before spending five years as an Army and Air Force physician, had made improving the lot of Brooklyn's black residents a personal mission.
        Indeed, as Mrs. Cave recalled, many of the meetings that laid the groundwork for the restoration corporation took place in the Cave residence on President Street in Crown Heights, where planners like John M. Doar and even Senator Kennedy himself would spend hours poring over maps and economic data.
        Dr. Cave, who became the corporation's chairman and was a director at his death, stimulated many initiatives, including the establishment of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Family Health Center, serving as its chairman from its creation in 1976 until his death.
        It was almost a foregone conclusion in 1970 that the City Council would name Dr. Cave as one of the 15 original directors of the new Health and Hospitals Corporation, formed to run the city's beleaguered public hospitals.
        As the long-time director of the Health Department's Bureau of Venereal Disease Control, Dr. Cave had won wide praise for his efforts to combat what are now called sexually transmitted diseases.
        During eight often turbulent years on the hospitals corporation's board, Dr. Cave was a champion of improving treatment for poor and minority residents and was especially proud of his role in recruiting the corporation's first black president, Dr. John L. S. Holloman Jr.
        For Dr. Cave, the first certified black dermatologist in Brooklyn, the first black president of the Kings County Medical Society, and a president of the predominantly black National Medical Association, that sort of thing was old hat.
        A man who believed deeply in the liberating power of education and who was forever urging patients and other youths to go to college, Dr. Cave recruited enough black physicians to staff a fair-sized hospital.
        Although he never ran for elective office, Dr. Cave, who preferred to work behind the scenes, was close to Brooklyn's black political establishment, an early and enthusiastic supporter of Representative Major Owens, for example, and a close associate of the politically powerful State Supreme Court Justice, Thomas R. Jones. He was also close to citywide leaders like Percy Sutton and David N. Dinkins.
        It was his own dedication and zeal that led Dr. Cave to become an effective champion of a variety of social causes, but it didn't hurt that he was a member of an influential network. Like his friends Judge Jones and Franklin A. Thomas, the former Deputy Police Commissioner who became the restoration corporation's first president before becoming president of the Ford Foundation, he traced his roots to Barbados, the island spawning ground of many other New York political, business and professional leaders.
        Although his parents were from Barbados, Dr. Cave was born in Panama, where his father had gone to help build the Panama Canal. When he was 3, they moved to Brooklyn, where his father became a contractor, and Vernal and his two brothers, both of whom also became doctors, set their sights on medical careers.
        During his military service, Dr. Cave was the medical officer for the famous Tuskegee Airmen of World War II. He later served on a Congressional advisory panel that denounced a 1930's study by the United States Public Health Service, which had denied treatment to black Tuskegee residents suffering from syphilis in order to determine the long-term effects of the disease.
        For all his often grim work, Dr. Cave never lost his sense of humor. When a television interviewer, for example, introduced him as ''the man responsible for all the venereal disease in New York City,'' and asked how he managed such an accomplishment, Dr. Cave didn't miss a beat: ''Practice, practice, practice,'' he replied.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Olga Wiles of Brooklyn.
      