
        The Rev. Dr. William Ragsdale Cannon Jr., a Methodist bishop and theologian whose ministry included national and international church activities that led to a friendship with President Jimmy Carter, died on Sunday at Crawford W. Long Hospital in Atlanta. He was 81.
        Dr. Cannon, who at his death was the bishop-in-residence at the Northside United Methodist Church in Atlanta, received national attention when he delivered a long and somber invocation at Mr. Carter's inauguration on Jan. 20, 1977. In a prayer that was stern in tone, he called for reflection and penitence, and condemned what he saw as the arrogance of Government officials involved in the Watergate scandals that culminated in President Richard M. Nixon's resignation in 1974.
        Dr. Cannon was a professor and dean of the Candler School of Theology at Emory University before he was elected a bishop of the United Methodist Church in 1968. He served the Atlanta area from 1972 to 1980, and became bishop-in-residence at Northside Methodist after his formal retirement in 1984.
        He was the author of 13 books, ranging from the teachings of John Wesley, the 18th-century founder of Methodism, to an analysis of the New Testament.
        Dr. Cannon was born in Chattanooga, Tenn., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia in 1937, a divinity degree from Yale University in 1940 and a doctorate from Yale in 1942. He was ordained to the ministry in 1940 and joined the Candler faculty in 1943.
        He was a professor of church history and the history of theology, and was dean from 1953 to 1968, the year he became a bishop. Throughout his career, he served as a church emissary to national and international leaders and councils.
        He met every Pope from Pius XII to John Paul II, and served as a Protestant observer at the Vatican II Council in 1965. During Mr. Carter's Presidency, Dr. Cannon traveled to the Middle East as an unofficial representative of the President to help resolve Arab-Israeli differences.
        Dr. Cannon was a past president of the World Methodist Conference and held high offices in the World Methodist Council.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      