
        Bernard Louis Gladieux, a Federal official who helped mobilize the country for World War II, went on to advise a succession of Cabinet secretaries and later helped build the Ford Foundation into a major global benefactor, died on Sunday at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 90 and a former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y.
        As assistant to Paul G. Hoffman, the foundation's president at the time, Mr. Gladieux helped transform it from a local benefactor in Detroit in the early 1950's. Mr. Gladieux, with a well-established reputation as an organizer, was its first full-time employee as its operations were organized in Manhattan.
        ''He turned on the lights and started figuring out what kind of programs they should develop,'' his son, Lawrence, said yesterday. What developed was the largest philanthropic foundation ever, dedicated to ''scientific, educational and charitable purposes.''
        Out of this and his experience at the Bureau of the Budget in Washington grew a two-year sojourn in the Philippines in 1955 to help the Government set up its budget process. By then, he had started a new career as a management consultant.
        He directed his attention to repairing and restoring organizations to make them more effective. He undertook more than 300 consulting assignments for a vast array of clients.
        He was a partner and vice president of Booz, Allen & Hamilton in Manhattan from 1956 to 1969, when he left for a partnership in the newly established firm of Knight, Gladieux & Smith, also in Manhattan. He retired in 1974.
        Mr. Gladieux cut an unusually wide swath as an administrator. He was born in Toledo, Ohio, graduated from Oberlin College and received a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University.
        He held several administrative posts in the early 1930's, and in 1939, he went to Washington to head the Budget Bureau staff forming to organize for war in case the United States entered the war.
        Working out of the Executive Office of the President, he helped redirect Government operations to meet wartime needs in the Roosevelt and Truman Adminstrations. He helped to set up the Office of Strategic Services, forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency; the War Production Board and the Office of Price Administration.
        After the war, he was an aide to three Secretaries of Commerce. He left the Government in 1950 for the Ford Foundation and the private consultancy.
        His wife, Persis Skilliter Gladieux, died in 1991 after 61 years of marriage.
        He is survived by four sons, Lawrence E., of Alexandria, Va.; Bernard L. Jr., of Gilbertsville, Pa.; Russell V., of Berne, N.Y., and Jay A., of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Rolland of Buffalo; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      