
        Ralph Wendell Burhoe, an educator and writer esteemed for his interpretations of the relevance of religion in a technological society, died on May 8 at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. He was 85.
        Mr. Burhoe was widely known for his examination of evolution, technology and religion in a world of rapid scientific advances, and he worked toward an approach allowing religious people to live securely within that quickly changing world.
        So highly was that effort regarded that in 1992, Roger W. Sperry, a Nobel laureate for his brain research, wrote that ''in the history of efforts to join religion and science, none appears to have achieved more wide and lasting impact than the venture of Ralph Wendell Burhoe.''
        Mr. Burhoe's chief concern was the alienation he attributed to a perception that the value of religion was distinctly separate from the benefits of technology. He was moved by the confusion that he sensed in many people, and saw the root of the problem in the chasm that divided science from religion.
        Mr. Burhoe, a Unitarian, devoted much of his life trying to reconcile the two, while keeping his feet planted in both.
        In 1980, he became the first American recipient of the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion. The citation said he was ''not only a scientist and a theologian, he is a missionary for a new reformation, a reformation which may be far more profound and revolutionary than the Reformation led by Martin Luther.''
        The recognition that Mr. Burhoe ultimately achieved was won without  the benefit of much academic training, which the Depression denied him. He was a native of Somerville, Mass., who attended both Harvard College and Andover Newton Seminary but was forced to drop out of both. All his degrees, honorary doctorates, came much later.
        Instead, he laid the groundwork for his life's teachings in penniless contemplation in a cabin on Mount Washington, to which he retreated with his wife in the 1930's.
        Then, in 1936, he got a job as a research assistant and librarian at the Blue Hill Meterological Observatory, a Harvard University institution where he spent the next 16 years. He became active in the American Meteorological Society and created a record of international weather data that helped military intelligence in World War II.
        He was executive officer of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1947 to 1964 and helped found its journal, Daedalus.
        He then taught theology and sciences at Meadville Theological School in Chicago for 10 years, leaving as professor emeritus in 1974. He  became involved as well with institutions trying to build bridges between religion and science. Among them was the Chicago Center for Religion and Science, which he founded in 1988 in collaboration with the Lutheran School of Theology.
        For years he served as editor of Zygon: Journal of Religion and Science, which relates theology to scientific discoveries.
        Mr. Burhoe was widowed twice. His first wife, Frances Bickford, died in 1967, and his second, Calla Crawford Butler, in 1995.
        He is survived by two sons, Winslow N., of Kittery, Me., and Thomas A., of Irving, Tex.; two daughters, Laura Maier of Walla Walla, Wash., and Diana Chase of Greenfield, Mass.; 10 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren.
      