
        Robbie Tilley Branscum, whose books for young readers bore the stamp of her hardscrabble childhood in rural Arkansas, died on May 24 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 62.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Deborah.
        Born in Big Flat, Ark., she was reared in poverty on the patches of farmland in the surrounding hills. She never got past the seventh grade, married at 15, divorced at 25 and worked on dirt farms. But despite her lack of education, she had picked up a reading habit as a youngster. On rainy days, she would devour every library book she could lay her hands on.
        Along the way she had also taken to writing. Her church received a  Southern Baptist newsletter, to which she submitted an article, ''Men Who Walked With God.'' To her amazement, she said later, it was published. That small success made her decide on writing as a career.
        Ms. Branscum went on to write 20 books for children and teen-agers, the first of which, ''Me and Jim Luke,'' was published in 1971. ''The Murder of Hound Dog Bates: A Novel'' won an Edgar Allan Poe Award in 1983.
        Her ''Toby, Granny and George''  received a Friends of American Writers Award in 1977, and ''Johnny May'' was listed among the ''Best of the Best 1966-1978'' by the School Library Journal.
        Ms. Branscum's stories told of dirt-poor life in rural America, replete with moonshiners, corn pone humor and sentimentality, as well as the pleasures of berry picking, frying chicken and baking bread. Her pen also testified to the wit needed by farmers in their endless battle for survival.
        She published her last two books in 1991, ''Old Blue Tilley'' and ''Never Pa's Girl.'' Over the years, she also spent considerable time speaking to library associations and telling students how she succeeded as a writer despite the handicap of having only a seventh-grade education.
        Besides her daughter, of Albany, Calif., she is survived by two stepdaughters, Anna and Renae Brascum of Richmond, Calif.; three brothers, Eugene Tilley of Marshall, Ark., Ovalee Tilley of Springfield, Ore., and Hershel Tilley of Columbus, Ind.; two sisters, Bobbie Spiess of Brentwood, Calif., and Billie Jo Burch of Indianola, Iowa; two stepbrothers, Billy Ray Petty of Chester, Calif., and James Petty of Modesto, Calif., a granddaughter and two stepgrandchildren.
      