
        Charles Henry Bendheim, an industrialist and a supporter of Jewish causes and organizations in New York and Israel, died on May 5 at his home in Jerusalem. A former resident of Manhattan's West Side, he was 79 and also had homes in the Bronx and in Long Beach, N.Y.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Bendheim was chairman of Philipp Brothers Chemicals Inc., a maker and distributor of industrial, agricultural and pharmaceutical chemicals in Fort Lee, N.J. Founded as a trading company by his father, the company emerged in its present form in 1947, with the younger Mr. Bendheim becoming president in 1950.
        Since he turned the presidency over to his own son, Mr. Bendheim spent much of the year in Jerusalem devoting himself to charities there. He had a special affinity for the century-old Shaare Zedek Medical Center, which he supported for nearly four decades.
        In New York, he was a backer of Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He served on the university's board of trustees for longer than 30 years, and, as chairman of the seminary (1977-86) and chairman of Yeshiva University High Schools (1963-79), he was credited with providing strong guidance to both institutions in years of robust growth.
        Shaare Zedek is one of Jeusalem's most important medical complexes, and Mr. Bendheim gave it constant attention after he stepped down as president in the 1980's. He traveled around the world visiting heart centers and children's hospitals to find the best techniques and equipment for those wards in Jerusalem.
        He also helped organize and develop American Friends of the Jerusalem College of Technology and served as a board member of the Jerusalem Cener for Multi-Handicapped Blind Children.
        A native of Brooklyn, he graduated as an engineer from Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., in 1939.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Els Salomon Bendheim; their five daughters, Dr. Judith Guedalia and Debra Eisenberg, both of Jerusalem, Aviva Sussman of Manhattan and Edna Zussman and Karen Levine of Jerusalem; two sons, Jack C., of Riverdale, and Philip E. of Jerusalem; a sister, Gertrude Herlands Engelberg of Manhattan; 45 grandchildren, and 21 great-grandchildren.
      