
        Laurie Lee, a poet, novelist and scriptwriter who grew up in a small Cotswold village, walked across Europe, fought in the Spanish Civil War and wrote about all three in a highly regarded series of memoirs, died  yesterday at his Gloucestershire,  England, home. He was 82.
        Mr. Lee was already a celebrated poet when he gained his greatest success in 1959 with the publication of the first of his memoirs, ''Cider With Rosie,'' evoking life in the village of Slad during his childhood. The book was originally published in America as ''The Edge of Day: A Boyhood in the West of England.''
        ''It was a world I wanted to record because it was such a miracle visitation to me,'' Mr. Lee said. ''I wanted to communicate what I had seen so that others could see it.''
        The book was not so much an autobiography as a chronicle of the daily life and personalities in the village. A review in The New York Times described it as a ''remarkable book written with such dazzling vebal imagery and such relish in all the sensations of being alive (aged 3 or  aged 16) that it is magically contagious.''
        Mr. Lee had been a sickly child, and a shy one. He left school at 14 and took a job as an office tea boy, but was dismissed for using the firm's supplies to write poetry during his lunch hours.
        In his second memoir, ''As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning'' (1969), Mr. Lee assumes center stage, telling how he left his village  when he was 19, carrying only a violin and a blanket, walked to London, worked as a sidewalk busker and a laborer and then traveled to Spain, where he settled for a year in  Almunecar, a fishing village.
        In Almunecar, which Mr. Lee identified as Castillo, the author worked in a hotel kitchen during the day and played his violin in the hotel bar at night. In 1988, the residents of Almunecar erected a statue in his honor.
        When the Spanish Civil War broke out, Mr. Lee fought with the loyalists, but fled the country when he heard an erroneous report that Gen. Francisco Franco's forces had won. The flight haunted him, and in 1937 he walked back across the Pyrenees Mountains to rejoin the International Brigades and fight for the loyalists.
        His experiences in the war were the subject of his third and final memoir, ''A Moment of War'' (1993), which he struggled to finish as his eyesight was failing. He had strongly  conflicted feelings about the war, he said, particularly about killing a man in battle, an incident that is the book's climax.
        The war, he once said, was ''a shadow and a scar.'' Yet he added, ''I think if I hadn't gone it would have been a deeper scar of a different kind.''
        ''A Moment of War'' was chosen as one of 1993's Notable Books of the Year by the editors of The New York Times Book Review, who wrote of Mr. Lee that ''his enormously sophisticated book, a testament to the morality and weakness of humanity,  has the plainness of Orwell but the metaphysical soaring of a poem.''
        Recurring bouts of pneumonia eventually forced Mr. Lee to leave Spain again, and he went to work for the Crown Film Unit in London, writing scripts for the BBC. In 1944, he became Publications Editor for the Ministry of Information.
        A friend sent some of Mr. Lee's poems to Cyril Connolly, Stephen Spender and other prominent writers and editors, and Mr. Lee was quickly published and began to attract attention and prizes. In 1947, he published his first volume of poetry, ''The Sun My Monument.''
        In 1954, he was named a Member of the Order of the British Empire. Mr. Lee was once asked if he was disappointed that he was never knighted, and he responded by humorously describing the British honors he really craved.
        ''I dream of having a heart attack at Hatchard's, an obituary by Ted Hughes, a memorial service at the Garrick and a drinking fountain in Poet's Corner,'' he said.
        Mr. Lee took the profits from ''Cider With Rosie'' and bought the cottage in Slad where he had grown up. At first, Mr. Lee and his wife used the house as a weekend getaway, maintaining their primary residence in a flat in Chelsea. After the birth of their daughter in 1958, however, Mrs. Lee and the child moved to Slad and Mr. Lee stayed in Chelsea, working there during the week and commuting to Gloucestershire on weekends.
        Mr. Lee said he found it hard to work in the country. ''Either it's a nice day and you lie in the long grass or people knock on your door and want you to go to the pub for a chat,'' he said. ''And that's that day gone.''
        An extremely shy man, Mr. Lee jealously guarded his privacy, rarely entertaining visitors and frequently boasting of how many days he had gone without talking to another person.
        Mr. Lee's style was simple, but lyrical. He described it this way: ''I hope to find patterns of words that can transmit sensations in the simplest and most direct way, without using highfalutin language.''
        Mr. Lee also published several novels, books of poetry and volumes of nonfiction, including ''The Firstborn'' (1964), about his only child, Jessye, and ''Two Women'' (1983), an homage to his wife, Catherine, whom he married in 1950. His wife and daughter survive him.
        When a 25th-anniversary edition of ''Cider With Rosie'' was published, Mr. Lee told an interviewer how much trouble the book had caused him in Slad.
        ''There are taboos about village life,'' Mr. Lee said. ''The things you say in the pub and the local jokes that can be repeated, you put them in print and they're not forgiven. It takes a long time to get over that. It takes a long time and a lot of free drinks to allow that to be forgiven.
        ''But it has been forgiven now.''
      