
        Gilbert Green, a Communist Party leader who spent six years in a Federal penitentiary for ''conspiracy to teach and advocate'' the overthrow of the United States Government, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 90 and had lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan until three months ago.
        The cause was cancer, said Michael Myerson, a family friend.
        Mr. Green was a principal organizer and national head of the Young Communist League in the 1930's. He was one of 11 party leaders tried and convicted in 1949 under the Smith Act, formally known as the Alien Registration Act of 1940, which made it a crime to advocate the violent overthrow of the Government or to belong to an organization that did. After World War II, Federal prosecutors used it to put on trial native-born political radicals suspected of seeking to subvert American institutions and professions.
        The 11 defendants were fined and given five-year prison terms. The Supreme Court upheld their sentences in 1951, but Mr. Green and three others jumped bail rather than report for incarceration. Mr. Green surrendered in New York in 1956 and served his sentence in the Federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kan.
        The Supreme Court sharply curbed the application of the Smith Act in 1957, allowing it to apply only to people who engaged in specific insurrectionist activities or incited others to do so.
        Mr. Green was born Gershon Greenberg in Chicago and, lacking an extensive formal education, became a mechanic, but he maintained a zest for books and the social views of Jack London, Theodore Dreiser, Emile Zola and Eugene V. Debs. After becoming a Communist organizer, he changed his name to protect his family.
        He remained a party loyalist after his release from jail, when he moved to Manhattan. He served as New York State chairman and as a member of the national committee, but he joined a party faction that loudly objected when Gus Hall, the general secretary of the American Communist Party, blessed the 1968 Soviet-led occupation of Czechoslovakia as being ''in defense of socialism.''
        According to Mr. Myerson, his friend, Mr. Green finally quit the committee and left the party entirely in 1991 because it and Mr. Hall supported the coup leaders who sought to unseat Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader and advocate of reform.
        Mr. Green is survived by two sons, Daniel, of Ann Arbor, and Ralph, of Atlanta; a stepson, Daniel North of Jersey City; two stepdaughters, Susan North of Brussels and Nora North of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. His first wife, Lillian Gannes Green, died in 1962, just after he emerged from prison. He then married Helen North, who died five years ago.
      