
        Donald Irwin Warren, a sociologist who studied and wrote about alienation in America, died last Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He would have been 62 this Saturday.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said Prof. Peter Bertocci, a colleague at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
        Dr. Warren had been associated with Oakland for more than 30 years and was an associate professor of sociology and past chairman of the university's department of sociology and anthropology.
        He was one of the first to study what he termed ''Middle American radicals.'' He was the author of ''The Radical Center: Middle Americans and the Politics of Alienation'' (University of Notre Dame Press, 1976), in which he sought to define the political attitudes and social values of working class Americans.
        The book focused on an angry Middle America, deeply suspicious of national leaders and ''elitists.'' His Middle American radicals, frustrated by their lack of political power as individuals, typically vented their anger in local confrontations, like the anti-busing protests that were besetting Boston at the time.
        Dr. Warren's interest in alienated Middle Americans led to his most recent book, ''Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, the Father of Hate Radio'' (Free Press, 1996). It was an updated portrait of the Roman Catholic pastor in Michigan whose radio addresses in the 1930's criticized such diverse groups as bankers, trade unionists and Communists.
        In 1934 Father Coughlin organized his own political movement, the National Union for Social Justice, which denounced President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal policies. He also published a magazine, Social Justice, in which he expressed pro-Nazi opinions and made anti-Semitic remarks about Jewish bankers and stockbrokers.
        Dr. Warren wrote that his research showed that Father Coughlin was deeply involved with a paramilitary group that presaged the ultra right hate groups of today.
        Dr. Warren was born in Detroit and graduated from Wayne State University, from which he received a master's degree in political science in 1959. He received a second master's and a doctorate in sociology from the University of Michigan.
        He is survived by his wife, Kristine Woloszynski-Warren, and two daughters from his first marriage, Dianna Warren of Washington and Lisa Warren of Ann Arbor.
      