
        David E. Scherman, an editor and photojournalist who survived the sinking of an ocean liner by a Nazi warship disguised as a merchant vessel before the outbreak of World War II, and whose photos from a lifeboat enabled the British Navy to track down the German ship and sink it, died on Monday at his home in Stony Point, N.Y. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rosemarie Redlich Scherman.
        Mr. Scherman's film, which he smuggled back to the United States in tubes of toothpaste and shaving cream, put a stop to a course of destruction by the ship, the Atlantis, known as a surface raider. The ship, disguised under various names, had sunk 22 liners and merchant ships in the Atlantic.
        Mr. Scherman, then a photographer for Life magazine, went on to become the only photographer to become an editor at the magazine. He eventually became senior editor in charge of movie, book and television reviews. At Life's demise as a weekly in 1972, he edited and helped write the text for a best-selling book, ''The Best of Life.'' He also contributed to books including ''First of the Many'' and ''Literary America.''
        As a photographer on assignment during World War II, he survived two light-plane crashes, was shot down in an observation plane over Germany and covered the D-Day invasion of Europe, the initial battles in Normandy and the liberation of Paris. He was one of the first photographers to enter Munich, where he discovered Hitler's hideaway before the Allied forces did.
        In a manuscript he was writing before his death, he recalled the events of April 17, 1941, when he and 201 others were heading toward Cape Town on the Egyptian liner Zamzam. He said one passenger on deck late at night saw ''flashing lights winking from a dark hulk,'' then heard two ear-shattering explosions.''
        The passengers were taken aboard the German vessel and taken to the coast of Portugal. Mr. Scherman, with a toothbrush and the film-stuffed tubes sticking out of his shirt pocked, passed inspection by German officers and was released two weeks after the sinking. After Life printed the photos, British naval units that had been searching for the surface raider with the capability to fire torpedoes used one of the pictures to identify the vessel and sink it.
        David Edward Scherman was born in Manhattan, one of two sons of William S. and Celia Scherman. His father, a businessman, moved the family to New Rochelle, N.Y., where David attended public high school.
        In 1936, he graduated from Dartmouth College. Time Inc. had recently bought Life and turned its focus from humor to news and photographs. He bought a Lieca camera, took a series of pictures of Manhattan, showed them to the Life editors and was hired. The staff of that era included photographers like Alfred Eisensdtadt, Margaret Bourke-White and Gordon Parks.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, John, of Manhattan, and Tony, of Upper Nyack, N.Y., and his brother, William H., of Hanover, N.H.
        Correction:  May 9, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about David E. Scherman, an editor and photojournalist who survived the sinking of an ocean liner by a Nazi warship, misstated the timing of the incident at one point. The sinking, on April 17, 1941, was during World War II, not before it.
      