
        Virgilio Barco, an American-educated former President of Colombia whose dream of combatting rampant poverty with land reform and other ambitious social measures was sidetracked by an American-backed civil war with powerful drug barons, died Tuesday at a hospital in Bogota.  He was 75 and had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease since shortly after leaving office in 1990.
        Hospital officials said the cause  was stomach cancer.
        With one-third of his nation's 28 million people living below the painfully low official poverty line and an array of well-armed leftist guerrilla bands carrying out attacks and demanding reform, Mr. Barco had his work cut out for him when he took office in Bogota on Aug. 7, 1986.
        Tall and lean with a shock of white hair, black horned-rimmed glasses and a tendency to stammer, at first glance, Mr. Barco hardly seemed the man to set things straight. He was such a poor off-the-cuff speaker that he refused to give interviews during the campaign. He became the butt of widespread jokes, often likened to an absent-minded professor, one, moreover, with such a pronounced American accent that his English was said to be better than his Spanish.
        If so, it was because Mr. Barco had spent 17 years in the United States,  earning a degree in civil engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, studying economics there and at Harvard, earning a master's and teaching at Boston University, serving as Ambassador to the United States and spending five more years in Washington as a director of the World Bank.
        He married an American, the former Mary Carol Isakson of York, Pa.  In addition to his wife, his survivors include four children, Carolina, Julia, Diana and Virgilio, and two grandchildren.
        But for all his difficulties speaking, Mr. Barco established himself as a highly effective administrator and one of the nation's most accomplished politicians.
        A native of the steamy, oil producing town of Cucuta, on the Venezuelan border, where his grandfather had obtained a valuable oil concession in 1905, Mr. Barco grew up rich. But against type, he attended  public schools as a child and later joined the Liberal Party.
        Drawn into politics shortly after he received his degree from M.I.T. in 1943, Mr. Barco ran the Ministry of Communications and later served in both houses of Congress, his first term interrupted by the civil war between the Liberal and Conservative Parties, which forced him to spend several years in exile in the United States.
        After he returned to Colombia in 1954, Mr. Barco helped arrange the inter-party peace that laid the groundwork for a stable democracy, serving two terms in the Senate and becoming Minister of Public Works and then of Agriculture, Acting Minister of Finance and Ambassador to Britain before an appointed term as Mayor of Bogota made him something of a national hero when he successfully completed an ambitious construction program to prepare for a Papal visit in 1968.
        As President, Mr. Barco made a valiant effort to carry out his economic and social reforms but he was soon sidetracked by American demands for the arrest and extradition of more than 100 drug traffickers, a demand that set off a wave of bombings, kidnappings and assassinations by the entrenched leaders of the nation's cocaine cartels.
        Mr. Barco, who had barely mentioned the cartels during his campaign, favored extradition, but after the Colombian Supreme Court twice invalidated the extradition treaty, the President seemed immobilized.
        With many Colombians openly favoring a truce with the drug barons, Mr. Barco continued to denounce them as leaders of a renegade state within a state, but he also began a public-relations campaign in the United States aimed at establishing that the problem was was the insatiable American demand for drugs, not the Colombian supply.
        In the end, it was not so much the American pressure as the ruthless boldness of the drug barons that prodded Mr. Barco into action. After a wave of assassinations of public officials, he declared a state of siege in 1988, reimposed the extradition treaty by decree and began a full-scale war against the cartels, capturing or killing several high-level traffickers and extraditing a number of them to the United States.
        When he left office in 1990 the war was still raging, and although the most powerful and notorious trafficker, Pablo Escobar Gaviria, was eventually killed in 1993, the power of the cartels was demonstrated in 1991, when the Colombian Congress overturned the extradition treaty.
        Although reliable assessments are impossible to come by, by most accounts Colombia continues to supply about as much cocaine as it ever did.
      