
        Cardboard boxes clutter the floor of Dr. Mary Hibberd's office here, some filled with files to discard and others bulging with mementos to keep. Her desk is strewn with folders and a hammer and a screwdriver for removing photos from the wood-paneled wall.
        Dr. Hibberd, the Suffolk County Health Commissioner, is making an abrupt and highly publicized career change in a life that has never worked out quite the way she planned.
        Her pattern was set early, when hopes of becoming a naturalist were thwarted by a graduate program's males-only policy. Since then, her zigzag career as a scientist and pediatrician has taken her to a remote Montana Indian reservation, the squalor of Bangladesh and the poorest neighborhoods of Long Island.
        None of it seemed to prepare Dr. Hibberd for the rough and tumble of politics in Suffolk County. She says she was ousted because she would not play patronage games; her detractors disputed her health policies and said she was a poor manager. In any case, by Friday, she will have vacated her office.
        As Dr. Hibberd sorted through her things, she said, ''Look -- here's something.'' It was the plaque commemorating her induction in March into the Suffolk County Women's Hall of Fame. Etched at the bottom is the name of County Executive Robert J. Gaffney -- who two months later, without warning, created a committee to search for her successor.
        Dr. Hibberd was in Virginia picking up her daughter from college, and found out when she called her answering machine from a pay phone in a Wendy's and heard urgent messages from reporters.
        ''It was very painful,'' she recalled. ''I was crying and saying it's not fair -- I'm not there to defend myself. We drove back home in this big line of violent thunderstorms. It seemed like the perfect metaphor.''
        Mr. Gaffney said his decision stemmed from a growing rift with Dr. Hibberd over health policies. He also questioned her management skills, saying that her agency had failed to get millions of dollars in state aid, that malpractice expenses were high and that its managed-care system was floundering.
        Dr. Hibberd rebutted his complaints, saying, for example, that Suffolk would get all its state aid after the normal lags in claims, payments and budget cycles. But she also mounted a counterattack, saying that the real reason for her removal was that she blocked attempts at  interference by Mr. Gaffney, his top aides, two legislators and others.
        Over the years, she said, those officials had tried to foist unqualified but politically connected job candidates on her agency. She said they also tried to force her agency to spend money advertising in a politically connected newspaper and tried to strong-arm her into backing off on smoking regulations to help their business friends.
        Dr. Hibberd, 50, a divorced mother of two who is given to quoting Gandhi and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., said she would not give in. ''My duty is to protect the public health, not to engage in politics,'' she said.
        Nor did she seem concerned about losing her job. ''I always think God has a plan, even though we don't know it,'' she said.
        Dr. Hibberd has a legion of admirers who see her as a Mother Teresa who championed suburbia's invisible needy, and, in the process, cut Suffolk's infant mortality rate by more than 40 percent.
        ''Mary is credible, and the rest of them aren't,'' said Maxine Postal, a Democrat and chairwoman of the County Legislature's Health Committee. ''That slim woman has a backbone made of tempered steel. From the person who does the maintenance work right up to the top, they say she's the very best we've ever had.''
        Mr. Gaffney and the other officials denied the charges of interference. Mr. Gaffney declined to be interviewed for this article.
        Although some people called for an investigation get to the bottom of the dispute, there appears little chance of that. Instead, Dr. Hibberd will start a new job Monday as a senior executive at Ipro, a health-care consulting firm in Lake Success.
        Growing up in Upper Darby, Pa., Dr. Hibberd never envisioned that she would some day be at the helm of a $275 million-a-year health agency.
        ''It was actually a fluky thing,'' Dr. Hibberd said of her career. Her own requirement was to find something ''that was work I wanted to do and that made a difference.'' After being shut out of the naturalists' program, she earned a master's degree in microbial genetics, then another in human genetics, which led her into medicine.
        ''I liked surgery best, but women rarely went into that,'' she said, so she shifted to pediatrics. In nearly five years practicing at the Flathead Indian reservation, she realized the medical toll of social and economic ills. ''I saw a lot of unemployment, alcoholism, fetal alcohol syndrome.''
        Her career was transformed again by 10 months as a volunteer in the Care Medico program in Bangladesh. ''People went blind from lack of vitamin A. There was scurvy, polio, tetanus, diphtheria, TB -- all preventable. You could save thousands.''
        She earned a master's degree in public health and took a residency in community and preventive health at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. A stint at the Suffolk Health Department prompted a job offer, and she became director of reproductive care for six years. County Executive Patrick Halpin named her acting health commissioner in 1991, and Mr. Gaffney made the appointment permanent.
        Many trace her undoing to a dispute four years ago with Suffolk's District Attorney, James Catterson Jr.
        She accused Mr. Catterson of threatening to investigate her agency unless she overturned the failing results of a psychological exam given to a son of a longtime associate of his. The son, an investigator in Mr. Catterson's office, needed to pass for authorization to carry a gun.
        Perhaps emboldened by Dr. Hibberd, other Republican officials also began to speak out, saying that Mr. Catterson had improperly pressured them on various issues. But he denied all the complaints, and a state inquiry ended with no action taken against him.
        ''There's a pattern here of someone who sees things that other people don't,'' Mr. Catterson said in an interview. ''I've never understood her agenda.'' He said Dr. Hibberd had been ''canonized'' by the news media, but he conceded, ''She comes across in private as she does in public, as Mother Teresa, and it's very disarming.''
        Her tenacity, however, hardly ingratiated her with Mr. Gaffney. This year she went over his head to the County Legislature to win more funds for her department.
        About the last thing to come down from Dr. Hibberd's office wall was a display of 13 color snapshots of beaming mothers and their babies from Project Hope, in which health workers monitor infants through their critical first year.
        ''This is one of the programs I started and one of the best things in the department,'' she said. ''So I am definitely taking these pictures. It just makes you feel good.''
      