
        William Richard Emerson, a military historian and former director of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, N.Y., died on Monday at Vassar Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Poughkeepsie.
        The cause was a heart attack, said John F. Sears, the library's executive director.
        Dr. Emerson, a chronicler of Roosevelt's years as Commander in Chief, directed the library at Hyde Park from 1974 until 1991. During his tenure, he succeeded in opening classified documents on World War II diplomacy to the many historians who came to peruse them.
        He also started a project to refurbish the museum galleries of the library and created a program to reach local schoolchildren. The library, established by a private foundation on 16 acres of Roosevelt's Hudson Valley estate, was turned over to the Federal Government in 1940 as the first of the Presidential libraries operated by the General Services Administration.
        ''His 17 years as director of the F.D.R. library set a standard for the Presidential libraries which have followed,'' said William J. vanden Heuvel, president of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute.
        For the 50th anniversary of Roosevelt's famous Four Freedoms, invoked in his 1942 State of the Union address, 55 scholars presented Dr. Emerson with letters of appreciation bound in hand-tooled leather. ''Your efforts to add to the store of historical materials,'' wrote the historian Robert Dallek, ''and to open them to scholars promptly and on an equal basis provide a model for how Presidential libraries should function.''
        Dr. Emerson was born in Little Rock, Ark., and attended Hendrix College in Arkansas and the University of Missouri before World War II intervened. He was a fighter pilot with the Army Air Corps, seeing combat in Italy and receiving the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal. He graduated summa cum laude from Yale College in 1948 with a major in history and received his doctorate from Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar in 1951.
        By then he had started teaching history at Yale. Later, he also taught at the Naval War College and served as director of research grants for the National Endowment for the Humanities from 1969 until his Hyde Park appointment.
        Dr. Emerson is survived by his wife, Barbara Clogher Emerson; two stepdaughters, Carol Woodriff of Houston and Ann Woodriff of San Antonio, Tex., and a brother, Joseph, of Jonesboro, Ark.
      