
        Fritz Leutwiler, a Swiss central banker who played an important role as the system of floating currency rates was put into place, died May 29 in Zumikon, Switzerland, where he lived. He was 72.
        The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the Swiss central bank said.
        Mr. Leutwiler joined the central bank, the Swiss National Bank, in 1952 and worked in its economics and statistics department. He became the bank's president in 1974 and served for a decade, endowing the job with wide influence in Swiss political and financial life.
        Mr. Leutwiler presided over the bank during a period of exceptional monetary turmoil as the world slowly adjusted to the inevitability of floating exchange rates.
        As Swiss National Bank president, and after 1982 as head of the secretive Bank for International Settlements, the central bank for central bankers, Mr. Leutwiler played a constructive role in managing the world's currency upheavals while faced with conflicting monetary philosophies.
        In Switzerland, opinion remained conservative in its support for fixed currency values and their ultimate convertibility into gold. But the United States was pressing for a looser system that would allow currencies to fluctuate on markets according to the perceived strength of their underlying economies.
        And even France, while officially espousing the merits of fixed rates, was secretly negotiating with Washington on an amendment to the International Monetary Fund's statutes that would legitimize floating exchange rates.
        Amid this turmoil, Mr Leutwiler kept a low profile but worked constantly to contain monetary crises and promote stability in international financial affairs. He sensed that the political wind was blowing against those who favored a return to fixed exchange rates and that the world's economic health now required a more flexible and pragmatic monetary system.
        Thus, under his direction, the Swiss National Bank played a leading role in mobilizing a $30 billion war chest to defend the dollar in 1978. And in 1982 as head of the Bank for International Settlements as well as the Swiss bank, Mr. Leutwiler helped the United States Treasury assemble a $1.8 billion package of credits to shore up the Mexican peso at the start of what was to become a debt crisis in Latin America.
        In his monetary history of these years, ''Changing Fortunes,'' a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul A. Volcker, said that at the time of the Mexican bailout, Mr. Leutwiler, along with the governor of the Bank of England, Gordon Richardson, ''instinctively understood what was at stake.''
        Mr. Leutwiler was also instrumental in arranging emergency credits for countries like Hungary and Brazil when they encountered financial difficulties. As a condition, the countries had to seek long-term arrangements with the International Monetary Fund and commit themselves to corrective austerity programs
        In 1985, Mr. Leutwiler became chairman of BBC Brown Boveri A.G. and helped bring about its merger with Asea A.G. of Sweden in 1987 to form ABB Asea Brown Boveri. Mr Leutwiler served as co-chairman of the new company until he retired in 1992.
        In the months before his death, Mr. Leutwiler worked with Swiss banks and industry in efforts to set up a fund to compensate Holocaust victims and their families.
        Mr. Leutwiler graduated from the University of Zurich with an economics degree four years before he joined the central bank. He worked as editor of a monetary journal and later went to London for training with a Swiss commercial bank.
        Mr. Leutwiler is survived by his wife, Andree Leutwiler of Zumikon;  a daughter, Sabine Leutwiler of Zurich, and a son, Nicolas Leutwiler.
      