
        Edward Bruce Schlesinger, a former chief of neurosurgery at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, died on Sunday in Fort Lee, N.J., at his apartment there. He was 83 and also lived in Lakeville, Conn.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Schlesinger was equally noted as a surgeon, teacher and multifaceted researcher who advanced the diagnostic use of radioisotopes. He retired in 1980 as Columbia's first Byron Stookey Professor Emeritus of Neurological Surgery, but he continued his research and writing at Columbia-Presbyterian.
        Aside from isotopes, his work centered on the pharmacology and biogenetics of tumors of the central nervous system and the genetic markers of neurological and orthopedic disorders. From 1973 to 1980, he was the director of the department of neurological surgery. Earlier, he founded the hospital's isotope laboratory. He contributed to the development of equipment and techniques used in many of today's diagnostic scanners. He wrote more than 70 scientific papers and trained generations of medical students.
        Dr. Schlesinger was born in Pittsburgh, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1934 and received his M.D. from its medical school four years later. While still in college, he volunteered as an assistant in neurophysiology, and in World War II he gained experience as a neurosurgeon in the Army.
        His association with Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons dated from 1946, when he was appointed research associate of the department of neurological surgery and associate professor of clinical neurological surgery. From 1949 to 1963, he was in charge of cancer research projects, including supervising work to find brain tumors by using radioactive isotopes and to develop diagnostic techniques employing isotopes.
        He was a founding member and past president of the Neurosurgical Society of America.
        Dr. Schlesinger is survived by his wife of 56 years, Mary Eddy Schlesinger; their three daughters, Jane Schlesinger of Corning, N.Y., Mary Depasquale of Manhattan, and Prudence Adler of Takoma Park, Md.; a son, Ralph, of Paoli, Pa., and seven grandchildren.
      