
        Raghu Raj Bahadur, a professor emeritus at the University of Chicago who was considered one of the architects of the modern theory of mathematical statistics, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 73.
        A spokesman for the university said Dr. Bahadur died after a long illness, and a colleague there, Prof. Stephen Stigler, said Dr. Bahadur had suffered from emphysema for many years.
        Dr. Bahadur was best known for his research into two aspects of statistics.
        One was the theory of sufficiency, in which statisticians reduce a large number of data to a smaller, more manageable number than can be applied to all of the data in a given model.
        Dr. Bahadur also developed what came to be known as the ''Bahadur efficiency.''
        Statisticians, Professor Stigler explained, may choose from a wide variety of competing procedures to measure a given situation. Using efficiencies, or performance measurements of the varying testing procedures, they can determine which procedure works best.
        The Bahadur efficiency came to be regarded as one of the most useful  for testing a wide variety of procedures, Professor Stigler said.
        ''In a technical sense it was thought to better reflect the ultimate goal of the statistical investigator than some of the other measurements,'' Professor Stigler said.
        A native of Delhi, India, Dr. Bahadur earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Delhi and his doctorate from the University of North Carolina. He joined the University of Chicago in 1950 and then returned to India briefly, returning to Chicago in 1954. In 1956, he returned to India as a research statistician at the Indian Statistical Institute in Calcutta. He returned to the University of Chicago in 1961, where he spent the remainder of his professional life.
        He was a past president of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and in 1992 was named Statistician of the Year by the Chicago chapter of the American Statistical Association.
        Dr. Bahadur is survived by his wife, Thelma, of Chicago; a son, Sekhar, of London; a brother, Rajesh, of Bombay and Delhi; a sister, Sheila Dhar, of Delhi; and two grandchildren.
        Beyond the arcana of statistics, Dr. Bahadur had varied interests. In a draft obituary prepared for the Institute of Mathematical Statistics Bulletin, Professor Stigler described him as a modest man of gentle wit, with ''tastes for Baroque music, dry martinis, cowboy billiards, the construction and flying of kites, and elegant mathematics.''
      