
        Richard JaeckelRichard Jaeckel, whose tough-guy roles as a grizzled G.I., gunslinger, cop and outdoorsman made him a familiar face to generations of film and television fans, died on Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 70 and had been living at the Motion Picture Home before entering the hospital four days ago.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        A stocky, boyish-faced character actor, Mr. Jaeckel was perhaps best known for ''The Dirty Dozen,'' the 1967 film about a group of convicts sprung from prison to be unleashed on the Nazis. Along with his co-stars Lee Marvin and Ernest Borgnine, Mr. Jaeckel repeated the role in a television sequel for NBC in 1985.
        He was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actor in the 1972 film ''Sometimes a Great Notion,'' based on Ken Kesey's novel set in a strike-bound Oregon logging camp. Mr. Jaeckel played one of the sons of Henry Fonda and a brother of Paul Newman, who also directed.
        Stardom found him, not the other way around, according to family lore.
        As a sister, Dorothy Jaeckel Hamlin, recalled yesterday, he was working in the mail room of 20th Century Fox in 1943 when a studio executive noticed his good looks and asked him to take a screen test.
        ''He said no,'' she recalled. ''He wanted to stay in the mail room. Finally they persuaded him to have the test. But he had one condition. Afterwards he wanted to return to the mail room.''
        Instead, however, Mr. Jaeckel was cast as the boy marine in ''Guadalcanal Diary,'' a 1943 epic of the Pacific war. The following year he was given a part in ''Wing and a Prayer,'' Fox's fighting salute to the Navy airmen who crippled the Japanese fleet off Midway, a turning point of World War II.
        After actual military service in the Navy during and after the war, he donned fatigues again for another World War II classic, ''Sands of Iwo Jima'' with John Wayne. He saw film action again in ''Fighting Coast Guard'' and a screen rendering of Norman Mailer's prize-winning novel ''The Naked and the Dead,'' in which Mr. Jaeckel played the young soldier pining for his lost wife and the child he has never seen.
        Finally he moved into varied roles. In the 1952 classic ''Come Back Little Sheba,'' with Burt Lancaster and Shirley Booth, Mr. Jaeckel played the convincingly lusty young beau of the equally hot-blooded boarder, played by Terry Moore.
        His career was given a boost by the Hollywood doyenne Louella Parsons, Mrs. Hamlin said. ''She was nuts about him, always writing him up,'' she said.
        He appeared in a number of action films, notably, in the 1970's, westerns. He was in ''Chisum'' with Wayne in 1970, and ''Ulzana's Raid'' with Lancaster in 1972. The following year he played Sheriff Kip McKinney in Sam Peckinpah's ''Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid.'' More recently, he appeared in ''Airplane 2,'' ''Delta Force 2,'' ''The King of the Kickboxers,'' ''Starman'' and ''All the Marbles.''
        He also became a familiar presence on television, appearing in the mid-80's as Lieutenant Quirk in the ABC series ''Spenser: For Hire,'' based on the mysteries of Robert B. Parker. He also appeared regularly as a lifeguard on the popular series ''Baywatch,'' even, most recently, Mrs. Hamlin said, with a cane. When he left, she said, the show honored him with its traditional award of bronzed shorts. ''He was a champion surfer,'' she said. ''He loved the water.''
        In addition to his sister, he is survived by his wife, Antoinette; two sons, Barry, who is a professional golfer, and Richard.
        Mr. Jaeckel spent most of his career in California but returned periodically to New York City where he was born and liked to stay at the New York Athletic Club.
        ''He wanted to exercise and didn't want anyone to bother him,'' Mrs. Hamlin recalled. Still, she said, ''everywhere he went people recognized him.''
      