
        John Akii-Bua, a slender hurdler who surprisingly won an Olympic gold medal in 1972 and almost paid for it with his life, died last Friday in Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda. He was 47 years old.
        Roger Byamugisha, the third secretary of the Uganda Mission to the United Nations in New York, said the cause of death had not been announced. He did confirm that Akii-Bua had undergone treatment for a week for what had been reported to be abdominal pains. At his death, Akii-Bua was a senior superintendent with the Ugandan police.
        In 1972, after only one international competition, Akii-Bua arrived at the Summer Olympics in Munich, Germany. His opposition in the 400-meter hurdles included Dave Hemery of Britain, the world record-holder and defending Olympic champion, and Ralph Mann, an American. His only pair of running shoes was two years old, and one shoe was missing a spike.
        But he was built ideally (6 feet 2 inches and 170 pounds), and he had trained with frightening intensity. In the six months before the Olympics, his training had included wearing a vest weighted with 25 pounds in lead as he ran 1,500 meters over five hurdles that were 42 inches high -- the hurdles for his race were 36 inches. He did four sets of those repetitions, twice a day, every day.
        He won the Olympic gold medal in 47.82 seconds, a world record, leaving the silver medalist, Mann (48.51 seconds), and the bronze medalist, Hemery (48.52), six meters behind. Then he ran a victory lap and jumped over the hurdles again.
        Akii-Bua's life would never be the same. Akii-Bua returned home as a hero, and to this day he remains the only Ugandan to win an Olympic gold medal in track and field. But his nation, under the dictatorship of Gen. Idi Amin, was torn by tribal factions and financial crises. Amin was purging the Lango tribe, and Akii-Bua was a Lango.
        The Government, while celebrating his achievement, soon restricted his movements. It eventually barred him from taking his wife and children with him to international competitions, afraid he would defect. It cut off twice-a-year training trips to Germany. It reached a point, Akii-Bua said, where he had to stay home and do nothing except listen to Diana Ross records.
        Friends told him that his life was in danger. He said it was difficult to even know who his friends were.
        ''You know how people become jealous when someone is getting such attention,'' his wife, Joyce, said in 1979. ''In Uganda, people who are jealous send others to kill for them.''
        Akii-Bua did not defect. He said in 1978: ''If I had not won that gold medal, perhaps I could leave Uganda. But I won the highest honor in track for my country, so I couldn't leave it. Uganda was, in effect, a prison. I guess Amin wanted to put me in jail several times, but I guess he didn't do it because I was too prominent a person.''
        In 1979, with Tanzanian troops about to capture Kampala, Akii-Bua, his wife and their three children fled to Kenya.
        As a police official under Amin, he was jailed there for three weeks. He was almost shipped back to Uganda to almost certain death until the West German Embassy and Puma, the German sports-shoe company whose shoes he wore, helped him get his freedom.
        He sent his wife and children to West Germany and soon joined them there.
        But first he returned to Kampala to check on his family and home. He learned that five brothers and a sister had been killed (his father, a county chief who died in 1965, had 43 children with eight wives). He found his house destroyed by bombs. It had been looted. His Olympic gold medal was gone.
        He could not defend his Olympic title in 1976 because black African nations boycotted the Montreal Olympics.
        Because he had little time to sharpen his speed, he did not fare well in the 1980 Moscow Olympics and was eliminated in the semifinals. Under a new democratic government, he returned to Uganda in 1983 and became the national coach.
        When he died, he was a widower with 11 children. His body lay in state yesterday in the parliament building in Kampala.
        Prime Minister Kintu Musoke will lead the Government delegation at a state funeral today.
      