
        Doc Cheatham, a lyrical, elegant trumpet player whose career blossomed when he was in his 70's and who then became one of the jazz's best known stars, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. Mr. Cheatham, who would have turned 92 on June 13, lived in Manhattan.
        An indefatigable player, he performed last weekend at Blues Alley, a club in Washington.
        For much of his career, Doc Cheatham was a soldier in jazz's trenches. He was a valued sideman in big bands beginning in the 1920's, and when times grew hard for big bands in the late 40's, he became a mainstay of Latin orchestras. He rarely improvised, and he never spent time in the spotlight. Mainly, he was respected by his peers as a lead trumpeter, a dependable and disciplined musician whose job it was to whip a trumpet section into shape: hardly a position of glamour, though one of undeniable importance. And he was considered one of the best at it.
        But rare for a musician and rarer still for a brass player, Mr. Cheatham emerged in his own right in the late 1960's as a brilliantly sensitive improviser and leader of stellar small groups. He became an acclaimed performer in small clubs, large concert halls and at jazz festivals throughout the world. But his appearances were not exercises in nostalgia. His tone was still pure, his improvisations still graceful and his high register still astonishing even as he entered his 90's.
        With his elbows pointing out and his trumpet pointed to the ceiling, he seemed to be invoking the gods. When Mr. Cheatham improvised, other musicians had to beware: in the ferocious competitions known as cutting sessions, his combination of tone, invention and humor left other musicians standing at the curb.
        After he had outplayed a younger horn player at a major festival, he told a reporter: ''Well, I'm sorry about that. But I'm going to keep doing it until I can't.''
        His solos were admired for their spare lyricism. He set up his high notes with the sort of perfect timing that made each successive phrase seem like part of a lovely, carefully considered design.
        ''Taking a solo is like an electric shock,'' Mr. Cheatham told Whitney Balliett of The New Yorker in 1982. ''First, I have no idea what I will play, but then something in my brain leads me to build very rapidly, and I start thinking real fast from note to note. I don't worry about chords, because I can hear the harmonic structure in the back of my mind. I have been through all that so many years it is second nature to me.
        ''I also have what I think of as a photograph of the melody running in my head. I realize quickly there is no one way to go in a solo. It's like traveling from here to the Bronx -- there are several ways, and you must choose the right way immediately. So I do, and at the same time I never forget to tell a story in my solo.''
        It wasn't until he was a septuagenarian that Mr. Cheatham also emerged as an engaging singer, picking through lyrics with a casual, sly wit. He chose gentle, wistful songs like ''My Buddy,'' ''Cherry,'' and ''I Guess I'll Get the Papers and Go Home'' and infused them with  warmth and sensitivity. John S. Wilson once described him in The New York Times as singing ''with a twinkle in his eye and a twinkle in his voice (especially when he revises a line in ''I Can't Get Started'' and sings ''Ma Rainey had me to tea,'' a reference to his first recording session, which was with the blues singer Ma Rainey in 1926).''
        Mr. Cheatham's vocalizing, like his trumpet playing, was in keeping with his personality: understated, funny and clever. He also became adept at something uncommon in jazz, an ability to talk to audiences, using his courtly charm to point up the spirit and content of his music. A dapper, rail-thin man, he made shyness seem like good manners, although he appeared rarely to miss anything that was going on.
        ''The thing I learned from Doc was economy,'' said the trumpeter Jon Faddis, who regularly performed with him. ''When a musician reaches his 70's or 80's, every note becomes profound, and Doc was like that, each note had its own meaning.''
        Adolphus Anthony Cheatham was born on June 13, 1905 in Nashville. His mother had been a teacher, and his father, a barber, was partly descended from the Choctaws and Cherokees who had settled Cheatham County, Tenn. He started playing music when he was 15, first on the drums, then moving to saxophone and cornet. By the early 1920's he was working in the pit band at the Bijou Theater in Nashville, where he had the opportunity to work behind many of the great blues singers that passed through the city, including Bessie, Mamie and Clara Smith and Ethel Waters.
        ''Clara Smith was twice as powerful as Bessie,''Mr. Cheatham told Mr. Balliett. ''She shook the rafters. And she was rough. You better not make one mistake when she came off the train tired and mean and evil.''
        In the mid-20's he moved to Chicago and began to play with regional bands, including John Williams's Synco Jazzers. ''My parents didn't care for my becoming a musician at all.'' he remembered. ''I think they hoped I'd somehow study to be a doctor, because I used to play in a little band over at the Meharry Medical College, which is how I got my nickname.''
        He struggled to establish himself in Chicago, living with five other musicians in a room in a boarding house. He performed with Lil Armstrong, Louis Armstrong's wife, and was introduced to New Orleans music through the many bands that were playing it in Chicago at the time. He picked up his mute technique from King Oliver and became friends with Louis Armstrong, who often had Mr. Cheatham take his place when he could not make it to a job.
        In 1927 he moved to Philadelphia, where he played second trumpet behind Sidney De Paris in Wilbur De Paris's band. (Mr. Cheatham recalled Wilbur De Paris as ''a tight man,'' explaining: ''I lived at his house, and he charged me for rent and food. He kept a file on all the extra biscuits I ate.'')
        He moved in 1928 to New York City, where he worked with the drummer and band leader Chick Webb and heard the trumpeter Jabbo Smith (''who was faster than Louis and seemed even greater to me''). He spent three years with Sam Wooding's band in Europe. When he returned, he joined Rex Stewart and Joe Smith in the trumpet section of McKinney's Cotton Pickers. ''It was like a college of jazz,'' he recalled.
        In 1931 he became a member of Cab Calloway's orchestra at the Cotton Club in Harlem. Mr. Cheatham spent eight years with the Calloway band; he admired the flamboyant leader and absorbed his showmanship but also his careful attention to musical detail.
        In 1939, Mr. Cheatham came down with a mysterious illness that dogged him for many years. When he was released from the hospital, he spent time in Europe recuperating, and on his return to the United States, he played in the orchestras of Teddy Wilson and Benny Carter. But he still did not feel well; he quit playing for a time and took a job in the post office. In 1943, he became part of Eddie Haywood's sextet, one of the most esteemed small bands then working in New York, occasionally drawing attention for the quality of his lyrical improvisations.
        As with many veterans of the big bands, Mr. Cheatham often had to work on the periphery of jazz in the 50's and 60's. Big bands had become less popular as rock-and-roll took over the public imagination. So Mr. Cheatham spent two decades as the lead trumpeter with Afro-Cuban groups, including Perez Prado's band and Machito's orchestra, and he was a regular in the recording studio; his trumpet can be heard on one of Latin music's most important albums, Machito's ''Kenya.''
        But he continued to find work where he could as a jazz musician. In the 50's he played with the trombonist Vic Dickenson at Storyville, a club in Boston owned by the impresario George Wein; and he appeared with Wilbur De Paris again, as well as with the pianist Sammy Price and the flutist Herbie Mann.
        In 1957 he was chosen to appear on the CBS television show ''Sound of Jazz'' with a group of legendary trumpet players: Rex Allen, Rex Stewart, Joe Wilder, Joe Newman and Roy Eldridge. He declined to take any solos but agreed to play obbligatos behind Billie Holiday; their segment on the blues ''Fine and Mellow'' has become a classic.
        In the 60's he led his own group in New York and performed with Benny Goodman. It was with Mr. Goodman's quintet that Mr. Cheatham emerged as a significant improviser. To do so, he set himself tasks: He listened to young trumpeters, including Clifford Brown. He listened to important older trumpeters. He combed his solos to rid them of cliches, and he made recordings of his performances.
        When he was in his late 60's, he left the Latin orchestra of Ricardo Rey to rededicate himself to jazz. He formed a new band, and in 1974 he opened the Nice Jazz Festival in France for George Wein, an engagement that helped to re-establish Mr. Cheatham on the international scene.
        But it wasn't until 1980, when he was in his 70's, that he became a genuine star. He became a fixture in Greenwich Village, playing on Sunday afternoons at Sweet Basil. He became a perennial at the JVC Festival (the present incarnation of Mr. Wein's Newport Jazz Festival), at Carnegie Hall's jazz programs (often with Mr. Faddis) and at Lincoln Center's jazz programs. In 1982 he was given a tribute by the long-running New York concert series Highlights in Jazz, and in 1991 his fellow musicians saluted him with a tribute at the JVC Festival.
        And for the first time, he regularly released recordings, including ''The 87 Years of Doc Cheatham'' (Columbia) from 1993, which featured him with his working band. This year, Mr. Cheatham released an album, ''Doc Cheatham and Nicholas Payton'' (Verve), a set of astonishingly lyrical duets with a young trumpeter.
        Mr. Cheatham is survived by his wife, Amanda, and a daughter, Alicia.
        He told Mr. Balliett: ''I'm almost the last of the line. I've talked to kids who come to hear us who don't even know who Louis Armstrong is. But they listen. 'How do you do that?' they'll ask. 'That's beautiful,' they'll say.
        ''When I'm gone, it'll be just about over, my kind of playing. It will be as if it hadn't existed at all, as if all of us hadn't worked so long and hard.''
      