
        Jacques-Yves Cousteau, the French oceanographer who opened more of the Earth's surface to human endeavor than any other explorer, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 87.
        Mr. Cousteau, who held no scientific degree, became a household name in many parts of the world through the enormously popular books, films and television programs that documented over four decades of undersea explorations.
        His first book, ''The Silent World,'' sold more than five million copies in 22 languages. A film of the same name, with the young Louis Malle as one of the underwater photographers, won an Academy Award for best documentary in 1957, the first of three Oscars that Mr. Cousteau's films received. Television programs bearing the Cousteau name earned 10 Emmys and many other awards.
        Explaining the broad appeal of his work, Mr. Cousteau once said: ''We are not documentary. We are adventure films.''
        Mr. Cousteau's adventurous spirit and mastery of the media brought him fame and fortune, but it also drew the envy of more conventional oceanographers, some of whom questioned the scientific value of his research, the authenticity of his film footage and even his record as a pioneering environmentalist.
        His later years were clouded by family quarrels over the direction of the far-flung Cousteau enterprises, which ranged from the nonprofit Cousteau Society and related organizations, with more than 300,000 members in Europe and the United States, to the Cousteau Oceanic Park, a theme park near Paris that filed for bankruptcy in 1991.
        His detractors notwithstanding, Mr. Cousteau's reputation rests on an achievement of unassailable importance: He was the co-inventor and principal developer of the Aqua-lung, better known by the acronym ''scuba,'' for self-contained underwater breathing apparatus.
        Before Mr. Cousteau, the only options available for undersea exploration were the diving bell and the helmeted diving suit, expensive and burdensome equipment that severely restricted the range of an explorer's movements. Scuba gear set divers free to explore, to depths of 100 feet and beyond, the seas that cover more than three-fifths of the Earth's surface.
        Mr. Cousteau's other accomplishments resist pigeonholing. His triumphs were essentially triumphs of character. To every task, he brought relentless energy, unquenchable curiosity, unshakable faith in himself, irresistible charm and the ability to get others to share his enthusiasms. The motto of his ship the Calypso in its glory days in the 1950's was his lifelong credo: ''Il faut aller voir.'' (''We must go and see for ourselves.'')
        President Jacques Chirac of France paid tribute to Mr. Cousteau yesterday as ''an enchanter,'' saying he represented ''the defense of nature, modern adventure'' and  ''the dreamy part at the heart of all of us.''
        In announcing the death, the Cousteau Foundation said, ''Jacques-Yves Cousteau has rejoined the Silent World.''
        Mr. Cousteau's son Jean-Michel, who had argued with him in recent years, said: ''The work of my father was a hymn to life. On the wall of my office there is a quotation from my father: 'The happiness of the bee and the dolphin is to exist. For man it is to know that and to wonder at it.' ''
        Gilbert M. Grosvenor, chairman of the National Geographic Society, said: ''The ocean environment has lost its greatest champion. He was the Rachel Carson of the oceans.''
        John C. Mutter, director of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University, said Mr. Cousteau, through his writing and television programs, had inspired an entire generation of young scientists to become oceanographers. He said Mr. Cousteau would be remembered not so much for his research but as ''a popularizer of genius,'' who set firmly in the public mind the fundamental importance of the world's oceans to the fate of the planet.
        Jacques-Yves Cousteau was born on June 11, 1910, in the prosperous market town of St.-Andre-de-Cubzac near Bordeaux, France, the son of Daniel and Elizabeth Cousteau. His father, a legal adviser and traveling companion to a peripatetic American millionaire, kept his family on the go. Jacques's introduction to the sea came at the fashionable resort of Deauville; although he was a sickly, anemic child, he learned to swim at age 4, a rare accomplishment in that era.
        ''I loved touching water,'' he wrote later. ''Physically. Sensually. Water fascinated me.'' As he outgrew his childhood ailments, he set his mind on becoming a naval officer.
        Stick-Ball in Manhattan, Film-making in France
        After World War I his father's new employer, another American millionaire with a taste for travel, took the family to the United States for two years. Jacques and his older brother, Pierre, played stickball on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and attended summer camp in Vermont, where Jacques learned to hold his breath and dive to the murky bottom of a lake.
        Back in France, he saved his allowance to buy an early Pathe movie camera. Before shooting his first film, at age 13, he took the camera apart and put it back together to find out how it worked. The homemade melodramas he filmed with his friends always credited ''J. Cousteau'' as producer, director and chief cameraman.
        Despite his curiosity about things mechanical, he was an indifferent student. To focus his mind on academic pursuits, his parents sent him to a rigorous boarding school in Alsace. In 1930 he gained entrance to the French naval academy at Brest. He took a movie camera along on a round-the-world training cruise and filmed roll after roll of exotic scenes -- including an encounter with South Seas pearl divers who wore peculiar-looking goggles to search for oysters beneath the waves.
        On his return to France, Mr. Cousteau chose the most adventurous course open to a young naval officer at the time: He enrolled in the navy's aviation school. Just weeks before he was to take his pilot's exam in 1933, he drove his father's sports car off a foggy mountain road and awoke in a hospital bed with two broken arms. When one arm became infected and doctors wanted to amputate, he said no. He regained the use of both arms after months of painful physical therapy. By ending his flying career before it started, the accident probably saved his life; all but one of his classmates at the aviation school were killed in World War II.
        Posted to the naval base at Toulon as an artillery instructor, Mr. Cousteau began swimming daily in the Mediterranean to strengthen his arms, on the advice of Philippe Tailliez, a fellow officer. They teamed up with a civilian named Frederic Dumas to experiment with water-tight goggles. The naked human eye is almost blind under water, so the submarine vistas that Mr. Cousteau beheld when he first put on the goggles in 1936 were a revelation.
        In the lean poetic prose that captivated readers of ''The Silent World'' 17 years later, he described the experience: ''Rocks covered with green, brown and silver forests of algae and fishes unknown to me, swimming in crystalline water. Sometimes we are lucky enough to know that our lives have been changed, to discard the old, embrace the new, and run headlong down an immutable course. It happened to me on that summer's day, when my eyes were opened on the sea.''
        The same year Mr. Cousteau met Simone Melchior, a student; they were married the following summer.
        Determined to dive deeper, stay down longer and see more, Mr. Cousteau and his friends began tinkering with homemade snorkel hoses, insulated body-suits and portable breathing devices based on the recent invention of the compressed air cylinder. To record their experimental dives, Mr. Cousteau fashioned a waterproof housing for a movie camera. The onset of World War II and France's quick defeat by Germany did not halt his underwater explorations.
        While remaining in the navy -- and later spying on Italian occupation forces for the French Resistance -- he found time to continue his search for a self-contained underwater breathing apparatus that would transform a diver into a free-swimming ''manfish.'' The search led him to the Paris office of an engineer named Emile Gagnan. Mr. Gagnan had devised an ingenious valve that allowed wartime automobiles to run on bottled cooking gas instead of gasoline. The two men adapted the automatic valve to the tricky task of feeding compressed air to a diver on demand and at the pressure of the surrounding water. They patented the device as the ''Aqua-lung.''
        With an Aqua-Lung, 'I Flew Around in Space'
        By June 1943 Mr. Cousteau was ready to test the bulky 50-pound apparatus in the clear waters of the Mediterranean off the French Riviera. His ''lung'' consisted of two air tanks fitted with the new regulator valve, a mouthpiece and mask and connecting hoses. On his first dive he went down 60 feet. He recorded what happened in his journal: ''I experimented with all possible maneuvers -- loops, somersaults and barrel rolls. I stood upside down on one finger and burst out laughing, a shrill distorted laugh. Nothing I did altered the automatic rhythm of the air. Delivered from gravity and buoyancy, I flew around in space.''
        In the next few months Mr. Cousteau, Mr. Tailliez and Mr. Dumas logged more than 500 dives, recording many of their exploits on film. In October, Mr. Dumas descended 210 feet, a record for free diving.
        By keeping even their deepest dives brief, they managed to avoid the bends, the painful and sometimes fatal decompression sickness long known to helmeted divers and sandhogs who work on bridges and tunnels in pressurized caissons. Under prolonged pressure, inhaled nitrogen is forced into solution in a diver's blood and tissues; if the diver then ascends too rapidly, the gas comes out of solution as froth -- like the bubbles in an opened bottle of champagne. In severe cases the nitrogen bubbles can clog veins and stop the heart.
        While learning to avoid the bends, the pioneering scuba divers encountered a strange sensation that Mr. Cousteau dubbed ''rapture of the deep'' and that doctors call nitrogen narcosis. Below a hundred feet, nitrogen is readily absorbed into brain tissue, triggering a host of irrational behaviors. Some divers panic; others, like Mr. Cousteau, feel a drunken sense of invulnerability so overwhelming that some have been known to remove their breathing tube to share the gift of air with a passing fish.
        Little by little, Mr. Cousteau and his circle established the parameters of safe scuba diving. By the end of the war his wife, Simone, was already an accomplished diver; Mr. Cousteau even fashioned miniature Aqua-lungs for their two sons, Jean-Michel, born in 1938, and Philippe, born in 1940. The first commercial scuba gear came on the market in 1946.
        Mr. Cousteau, still on active duty with the French Navy, persuaded his superiors to establish an Undersea Research Group; its mission was to perfect the techniques of scuba diving and underwater photography and to teach them to sailors. In addition to clearing German mines from French ports, Mr. Cousteau's group salvaged marble columns from a 2,000-year old Roman wreck off the coast of Tunisia, in an effort to show how free diving could contribute to underwater archeology. In the 1950's Mr. Cousteau's first underwater films won prizes at the newly established Cannes Film Festival.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Cousteau came into his own as an innovator and entrepreneur of undersea exploration. On permanent leave from the navy, he formed the first of a series of corporations and nonprofit organizations through which he financed expeditions, advanced environmental causes dear to him and projected his image as the leading explorer of the day.
        Aboard a converted 66-foot minesweeper that he rechristened Calypso, Mr. Cousteau and a loyal crew that included his wife and Mr. Dumas began searching the world's oceans for new arenas to demonstrate the latest underwater technology. Since the Calypso (named after the Greek sea nymph that held Ulysses in thrall) was expensive to operate, he jockeyed for government grants, hired out to an oil company to prospect for petroleum deposits on the floor of the Persian Gulf and cajoled equipment and supplies from the merchants of Marseilles, Calypso's home port. But he soon saw that the only way to realize his dream of keeping the Calypso in virtually constant operation was to turn the ship into a self-sustaining media attraction -- a kind of modern-day showboat.
        The 1953 publication of ''The Silent World,'' a first-person account detailing the development and promise of scuba diving, made Mr. Cousteau a celebrity. Originally written in English and later rewritten in French and translated into many other languages, it sold millions of copies throughout the world. In March 1955 the Calypso left Marseilles on a 13,800-mile voyage to the coral reefs of the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean. With support from the French Government and the National Geographic Society, Mr. Cousteau and his crew continued their underwater research.
        But the main purpose of the trip was to shoot spectacular color footage, including a memorable sequence of sharks in a feeding orgy, for the documentary version of ''The Silent World.'' After that film took the top prize at Cannes and went on to win an Oscar, Mr. Cousteau retired from the French Navy in 1956 with the rank of captain and accepted an invitation to head up Monaco's Oceanographic Institute. This venerable but moribund institution, which Mr. Cousteau rejuvenated, became his new base of operations.
        In the 1960's Mr. Cousteau set out to prove that humans could live and work on the ocean floor -- more specifically, on the continental shelf, a submerged strip of land that extends from the edge of all the continents to depths of some 600 feet. Three expeditions, known as Conshelf I, II and III, were designed to compete for public attention with government-financed space programs. Mr. Cousteau spoke of his brave ''oceanauts'' as precursors of a new breed of gill-equipped ''menfish,'' who would be ready to exploit the vast riches of the ocean depths by the 21st century.
        The technical challenges that the Conshelf expeditions faced were formidable. In 1963 Conshelf II sent five men to live for a month 35 feet below the surface of the Red Sea in a pressurized habitat dubbed Starfish House. This structure boasted all the comforts of home, including air-conditioning, windows with views of nature's own aquarium and home-cooked meals washed down with cognac and flat champagne. (Because of the ambient pressure in Starfish House, the champagne did not bubble.)
        Major financial backing came from the French oil industry, but to make ends meet Mr. Cousteau signed a contract to produce a full-length documentary about the expedition. Cameras followed every move the oceanauts made; the footage, edited into a 93-minute film entitled ''World Without Sun,'' won an Academy Award in 1964.
        The Path to TV And 'Undersea World'
        Bosley Crowther, The New York Times critic, while praising the film as ''beautiful and awesome,'' complained that ''obvious fakery'' -- the insertion of studio tank shots -- had been used to heighten the drama in the climactic scene. An incensed Mr. Cousteau replied that everything had in fact been shot on location, although he conceded some events had been re-enacted for the camera.
        Mr. Cousteau also received an Academy Award for best short film for ''The Golden Fish.''
        For Conshelf III in 1965, Mr. Cousteau assembled a flotilla of a dozen support ships off Cap-Ferrat in the Mediterranean. Six oceanauts, including Mr. Cousteau's 24-year-old son, Philippe, descended 330 feet, nine times deeper than the previous expedition. For three weeks they breathed a mixture of oxygen and helium that prevented nitrogen narcosis. Since helium makes the vocal cords vibrate more rapidly than nitrogen, they spoke in high-pitched squeaks that reminded some listeners of the voice of the animated Donald Duck.
        Mr. Cousteau, who had been counting on another movie sale to defray the enormous cost of Conshelf III, failed to line up a theatrical distributor. So the footage shot during Conshelf III became a National Geographic television special, produced by David Wolper and narrated by Orson Welles. Broadcast to great acclaim in April 1966, this program led to an extraordinary $4.2 million deal with the American Broadcasting Corporation; Mr. Cousteau agreed to deliver four hourlong television programs a year for three years, under the series title ''The Undersea World of Jacques Cousteau.'' In fact, the arrangement with ABC stretched over nine years; when it ended, Mr. Cousteau went on making documentaries, first for the Public Broadcasting System and then, starting in 1981, for Ted Turner's cable TV network.
        Following the zigzag voyages of the Calypso across ''Our Water Planet'' from Alaska to Africa to Antarctica, loyal audiences came face to face with sharks, whales, dolphins, sea turtles, walruses, penguins and giant octopuses. They had their eyes opened to the man-made pollution that was fouling the oceans thousands of miles from land. And they grew accustomed to the highly personal, Gallic-flavored English of the ubiquitous captain, whose deeply lined face, dazzling smile and red woolen watch cap made him one of the most recognizable figures on television. No matter which sea creatures cavorted before the lenses or which crew members were featured in individual programs, there was never any question that the star of the show was Captain Cousteau himself. (Among his colleagues, Mr. Cousteau preferred to be known as ''J.Y.C.,'' pronounced ''zheek.'')
        Growing Guardianship Of the Environment
        Mr. Cousteau's interest in protecting the ocean environment grew stronger over time. In the 60's he talked about the sea as an exploitable resource; by 1970 he was warning that life in the oceans had diminished 40 percent in just 20 years: ''The oceans are in danger of dying.'' In 1974 he founded the Cousteau Society, dedicated to marine conservation.
        The outspoken Mr. Cousteau was often at odds with other leaders of the environment  movement. He not only lent a sympathetic ear to technological fixes for pollution problems, but he also refused to put the interests of animals above those of people: ''I'm not an ecologist for the animals,'' he often said. ''I'm an ecologist for people.'' He shrugged off accusations that he had sometimes abused sea creatures to get good footage. At the same time he was outspoken against human overpopulation, which he called the ''primary pollution.''
        Mr. Cousteau's later years were marked by professional disappointments and personal losses. His younger son, Philippe, whom he had annointed as his successor, was killed in a seaplane crash in 1979. Jean-Michel, the older son, became heir apparent to the Cousteau empire, but father and son fought constantly over issues of management and policy, and Jean-Michel resigned from the Cousteau Society in 1992. Three years later Mr. Cousteau went to court to prevent his son from using the family name to promote an ''environmentally aware'' resort in Fiji in which Jean-Michel had a financial interest. In 1990 his wife, Simone, who had accompanied him on hundreds of explorations aboard the Calypso, died.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Cousteau is survived by his second wife, Francine Triplet, whom he married in 1991, and their children, Diane and Pierre-Yves.
        Early in 1996 the Calypso was struck by a barge and sank in 16 feet of water in the Singapore harbor, where it was being refitted for an expedition to China. While vowing to raise and repair the ship, Mr. Cousteau appealed to the public for donations of $20 million to build a new exploration vessel to be known as Calypso II.
        Although Mr. Cousteau's documentaries continued to attract television audiences into the last decade of the century, they no longer won awards or startled viewers into seeing the world anew. Aside from his flagging energies and his personal problems, Mr. Cousteau, who had helped to create the nature documentary as a distinct form, now had to contend with the myriad of competitors his success had spawned.
        Among his many honors, Mr. Cousteau was a member of the Academie Francaise and the National Academy of Sciences in the United States. For his wartime exploits in the Resistance, he received the Legion d'Honneur.
        To the last he renewed his fascination with the sea. ''From birth,'' he once wrote, ''man carries the weight of gravity on his shoulders. He is bolted to the Earth. But man has only to sink beneath the surface and he is free. Buoyed by water, he can fly in any direction -- up, down, sideways - by merely flipping his hand. Under water, man becomes an archangel.''
      