
        Daniel A. Lehner, the flamboyant president of Inflight Newspapers, a multimillion-dollar corporation that distributes newspapers and magazines to airlines and hotels around the world, died of a heart attack on Tuesday while attending a concert at Radio City Music Hall. He was 49 and lived in Cedarhurst, N.Y.
        Mr. Lehner, along with his wife and others in the audience, was dancing in the aisle during a performance by Erasure, a pop group, and collapsed after returning to his seat. Michael Watt, a friend, said he was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center but could not be revived.
        Mr. Lehner, the president of three corporations and the head of the Nassau Council of Chambers of Commerce and the Valley Stream Chamber of Commerce, was known for extravagant and theatrical gestures. For some years, he posted bail for some Nassau County jail inmates not accused of serious crimes, so that they could spend Christmas or Thanksgiving with their families. In 1995, he raised $1.2 million for 45 charities by buying out all 1,609 seats in the Majestic Theater for a performance of ''The Phantom of the Opera.'' The charities distributed the tickets to donors giving $250 or more.
        He was a fanatical fan of ''Phantom'' and had attended about 100 performances of the musical. He met his second wife, the former Remy Gill, at a performance of it in 1988 and proposed to her during an intermission four years later. They were married in 1993 after he obtained a divorce from Lorraine Lehner, his wife of more than 20 years.
        In addition to heading Inflight Newspapers, Mr. Lehner was president of Inflight Advertising, which holds the advertising rights for the plastic binders that hold the magazines distributed by Inflight and also the manufacture of the binders. In 1995, when he was told that a Dun & Bradstreet report put the private Inflight company's sales at $17 million, he retorted, ''mid-50's.''
        He was also president of Lehner International, an umbrella company of his business investments, including the Great American Cafe in Valley Stream, N.Y.; the Village Cinema Seven in Hempstead, N.Y., and the Greenport Theater, a movie house in Greenport, N.Y. In 1995, he opened a $3.5 million, 35,000 square-foot headquarters in Valley Stream.
        ''You can tell a lot about his personality from looking at his office,'' Patricia Bahnken, an interior designer, said last year. ''Everything is very theatrical and he's comfortable enough in his masculinity for pink carpet.''
        He flew his own 10-seat Piper Navajo Chieftain as well as a helicopter. Last year, he made what he called a six-figure investment in a company called International Fighter Pilots Academy. The business, started by an Australian executive, tries to attract civilians from around the world to an air base in Ukraine where they pay as much as $10,000 to fly in Soviet-built fighter aircraft.
        Mr. Lehner, with homes in both Cedarhurst and Manhattan, was born in Jamaica, Queens, on Aug. 2, 1947, and graduated from Berner High School in Massapequa, N.Y. He began working in the family newspaper and magazine distribution business in Queens begun by his grandfather in 1936. Later, he obtained both bachelor's and master's degrees in business administration from Adelphi University.
        The distribution business developed from a chance visit by a secretary from Trans World Airlines to what was then a small family candy store. She asked for some expensive Cuban cigars that the store did not carry. Mr. Lehner's father jumped in a car and returned with the cigars. She was so impressed that she recommended the store to officials at the airline; soon the Lehners were delivering newspapers to the airline and a multimillion-dollar business was begun.
        Mr. Lehner's grandfather died in 1982 and Daniel Lehner became sole owner of the business after buying out his father in 1985. He developed the computer tracking system used by the company to determine where planes would be parked long enough for publications to be put on board.
        Mr. Lehner's philanthropies included a $500,000 donation to the Franklin Hospital Medical Center in North Valley Stream and $250,000 to Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Center, N.Y. In 1995, he pledged a $3,000 scholarship for 10 years to honor Dennis Bell, a Newsday editor who had died. He was a member of the boards of several organizations, including the Long Island Philharmonic and Variety.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Lois, of Valley Stream; a stepson, Andrew Gill, and  two sisters, Linda Mayor of Oakdale, N.Y., and Donna Nowalski of Chicago.
      