
        Mario G. Salvadori, an engineer whose passion for structures was equaled only by his devotion to teaching about them, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        At his death, Dr. Salvadori was honorary chairman of the engineering firm of Weidlinger Associates and the James Renwick Professor Emeritus of Engineering and a Professor Emeritus of Architecture at Columbia University. He was best known in his last years, however, for his determination to use the principles of architecture and engineering as a way of teaching science and math to inner-city students.
        Responding to a call for volunteers in the New York City public schools in 1975, Dr. Salvadori, then 68, taught a junior high school class in Harlem. His success at explaining complex structural concepts through such real-world examples as how bridges and skyscrapers are built led him to develop his ideas into a formal curriculum, which ultimately became the basis of the Salvadori Educational Center on the Built Environment, now based at City College. The nonprofit center trains teachers and supervises the use of Dr. Salvadori's curriculum in more than 25 schools in the South Bronx, Harlem and elsewhere.
        Dr. Salvadori, a lifelong pacifist, had a gentle, patient manner that belied his stature as one of the world's leading structural engineers. He took particular delight in encouraging inner-city students to build models of buildings and bridges out of ordinary materials like toothpicks and string, and would even encourage them in class to set up economies in play money to teach them about the economics of structure as well as the physics of it. He showed the students how to make arches out of folded paper, startling them by revealing that the paper could be strong enough to support several bricks.
        ''I teach them why buildings stand up -- that is, the basic principles of architectural structures, which is also the subject of my first-year course in architecture at Columbia,'' Dr. Salvadori wrote in 1981. ''To my surprise, the children seem to absorb the ideas better and quicker than do my university students. Their enthusiasm is unbounded and their questions come like bullets from a machine gun.''
        In a speech in 1990 at the International Design Conference in Aspen, Colo., he asked: ''Are children capable of influencing the environment? I believe the answer to this question to be a resounding yes, on one condition: that they be empowered to understand, appreciate and wish to modify that environment.''
        In 1993, when Dr. Salvadori received the Hoover Medal, given jointly by the nation's engineering societies, Jonathan F. Fanton, president of the New School, said of him: ''He is shattering myths about how science and math must be taught, how inner-city children learn and what they are capable of learning.'' Dr. Fanton concluded: ''He has made the teaching of engineering a humanitarian art in itself.''
        Unlike many engineers who think in purely mathematical terms, Dr. Salvadori was a scientist who constantly sought ways to connect his craft to art and society. He designed the concrete structural system for Eero Saarinen's CBS Building in Manhattan, among many other celebrated buildings.
        ''His main concern was that great architecture be achieved,'' the architect Eugene Kohn said of Dr. Salvadori in 1995. ''Some engineers say you can't do this or that, but Mario never did. In my view, he's on a par with Louis Kahn or Paul Rudolph.''
        Mr. Salvadori was born on March 19, 1907, in Rome and was reared in Genoa and in Spain. His father was an engineer, but Mario hoped to become a concert conductor, and in 1925, at 18, he established what he later said was Italy's first student jazz band.
        Dissuaded by his parents from a musical career, he received two doctorates from the University of Rome, one in civil engineering and the other in mathematics. An outspoken critic of Mussolini's Fascist regime -- he later said that his exposure to Fascism helped inspire him to seek more creative and open teaching methods with children -- he left Italy in 1939 for the United States. Through a contact established by his parents, he first worked as a time-and-motion engineer at Lionel Trains in New Jersey.
        His interest in teaching was already apparent, however, and by 1940 he joined Columbia as a temporary faculty member, the beginning of a 50-year association with the university. He was appointed a full professor in 1959.
        For three years he worked as a consultant to the Manhattan Project, unaware, he said later, that his research was connected to the atomic bomb. In 1945, Dr. Salvadori joined with Paul Weidlinger, who had recently established an engineering firm in New York. While his name was never on the door, for many years he was the firm's most prominent presence, serving as a consultant until 1960, as a partner from 1960 to 1991, and then as honorary chairman.
        At Weidlinger he established a particular expertise in the analysis of structural failure. While he helped design numerous new buildings, Dr. Salvadori was often called in as a forensic engineer, investigating building failures in situations ranging from design and construction errors to earthquakes.
        Dr. Salvadori is survived by his wife, Carol; a son, Vieri; a stepson, Michael Kazan, and three grandchildren.
      