
        J. Anthony Lukas, a driven, tenacious author and reporter who won two Pulitzer Prizes while exploring the social and racial fault lines of 20th-century America, committed suicide on Thursday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 64.
        Mr. Lukas won his first Pulitzer in 1968 for chronicling the generational upheavals of the 1960's for The New York Times, and his second in 1986 for ''Common Ground,'' a painstakingly detailed book about Boston's agony over school busing.
        After years of work -- methodical research and writing being a Lukas hallmark -- he recently completed a new book, ''Big Trouble,'' a study of America at the start of the century through the spectacular trial of a labor leader for the murder of a former Idaho governor. The book is due to be published by Simon & Schuster in September, and he was working on the final version hours before his death.
        The Medical Examiner's office said that Mr. Lukas had strangled himself by tying a cord around his neck. He had long battled depression, and several friends said he had been ''in a funk'' since completing his latest book. ''He'd convinced himself that it was not good enough, which was crazy because it was brilliant,'' said Amanda Urban, his agent.
        Indeed, Mr. Lukas was known for the intensity that he poured into his work, whether relatively short news articles or epic-length books. For example, in ''Common Ground,'' which examined the effects of court-ordered racial integration on three Boston families, he dropped one family in midstream and replaced it with another because he felt that his first choice was ''not working dramatically.''
        ''He was absolutely brilliant,'' said the author David Halberstam, who worked with Mr. Lukas at The Times in the 1960's. ''He took journalism to a high intellectual level, yet he also had the doggedness of an old-fashioned police reporter. So you had a powerful combination.''
        That was recognized in the many journalism awards that Mr. Lukas won over the years, especially for ''The Two Worlds of Linda Fitzpatrick,'' a richly detailed account for The Times that brought him his first Pulitzer, for local investigative reporting. It was about the life and death of an affluent Connecticut teen-ager who was beaten to death, along with her hippie boyfriend, in the East Village. The article contrasted her affluent suburban upbringing and her squalid drug-ridden life in New York City, which her family knew nothing about.
        Three years later, Mr. Lukas wrote a book called ''Don't Shoot -- We Are Your Children!'' Through the lives of 10 disaffected young people, including Linda Fitzpatrick, it detailed what was commonly called the ''generation gap'' in those turbulent days.
        Years later, after having left The Times, he turned his attention to the racial schisms tearing at America's social fabric and its soul, using as his vehicle the turmoil over school busing that was then dividing Boston. It was a project that would absorb him for seven years, ultimately winning him the National Book Award and the National Book Critics Circle Award in addition to the Pulitzer.
        Jay Anthony Lukas was a physically large, imposing man. But for all of his inner drive, he was without pretense, an accomplished man of varied interests, who could sing Bach cantatas yet also loved to play pinball. He even kept a pinball machine in his apartment.
        He was born on April 25, 1933, in New York, one of two sons of Edwin Jay Lukas, a civil rights lawyer, and Elizabeth Lukas, an actress. He attended the Putney School in Vermont, and in 1955 he graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University, where he had been assistant managing editor of the campus newspaper, The Crimson.
        After serving in the Army and working briefly as a speech writer for a Massachusetts politician, he joined The Baltimore Sun, leaving it four years later to sign on with The New York Times.
        Early in his Times career, he was sent overseas, as a correspondent based first in the Congo and later in India.
        As ever, he was a vigorous reporter, whether covering a Congolese rebel insurgency in 1964 or an undeclared war that erupted the following year between India and Pakistan.
        He showed his courage in reporting on battles between Government soldiers and rebels forces that held sway over much of eastern Congo, including the vital city of Stanleyville, now called Kisangani. Entering Stanleyville after the Government had regained control, Mr. Lukas discovered that its troops were responsible for reprisal killings, a story that he broke.
        But it was after he had returned home in 1967 that he made his true mark. He told an interviewer in 1985 that ''there were things happening in this country which were infinitely more interesting and compelling than abroad.''
        The article on Linda Fitzpatrick was one example of his fascination with the American experience. At the time, it was seen by many as a groundbreaking piece of writing, one that used a then-unusual device -- at least for the staid New York Times -- of alternating different type faces to dramatize the separate worlds that this young woman inhabited.
        Besides the Pulitzer, the Fitzpatrick investigation received several prestigious journalism prizes, including the George Polk Memorial Award, the Meyer Berger Award given by Columbia University and the Page One Award of the New York Newspaper Guild.
        After that, Mr. Lukas spent a year of study as a Nieman Fellow at Harvard, returning to The Times as a roving national correspondent based in Chicago.
        It was 1969, and the country was afire with political and racial protest. Mr. Lukas was at the center of it when he covered the trial of the so-called Chicago Eight, later the Chicago Seven, antiwar militants accused of conspiracy to incite riots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention, which was held in Chicago.
        During the course of the five-month trial, Mr. Lukas introduced a phrase that became a classic of modern journalism. Forbidden by his Times editors to use a common vulgarity that the defendants shouted at the trial, he substituted the euphemism ''barnyard epithet.'' It inspired his first book, ''The Barnyard Epithet and Other Obscenities: Notes on the Chicago Conspiracy Trial.''
        Mr. Lukas's differences with editors at The Times over how to cover the Chicago trial led to disenchantment. He gave up daily reporting in 1970 to become a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. A year later, he left the newspaper entirely, to become one of the founders of More, a monthly magazine that looked at the press and television with a critical eye.
        During the 1970's, he wrote for many publications, including The Times Magazine, which in 1973 and 1974 devoted two entire issues to articles by Mr. Lukas on the unraveling Watergate scandal. He was working on a third article of similar dimensions when Richard M. Nixon resigned as President.
        Those three pieces formed the backbone of a 1976 book, ''Nightmare: The Underside of the Nixon years,'' which has been acclaimed as one of the best accounts written on Watergate.
        Mr. Lukas was active in writers' groups, and in February he was elected president of the Authors Guild. In 1970, he was a driving force in creating the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, a journalists' advocate on First Amendment issues. He also served on the executive board of the New York Council for the Humanities and as a judge for the Book-of-the-Month Club.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Lukas took part in an oral history project for the American Jewish Committee, in which he said, ''I firmly believe that any good journalist must essentially be temperamentally an outsider.''
        ''I don't think full sense of belonging and security is conducive to creativity,'' he added.
        Mr. Lukas is survived by his wife, Linda Healey, an editor at Pantheon Books; a brother, Christopher Lukas of Sparkill, N.Y., and two nieces, Megan and Gabriella.
        The family plans a private burial, but a memorial service will be held on Friday at noon at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64th Street.
      