
        Gerhart Niemeyer, a conservative political philosopher and professor emeritus of government at the University of Notre Dame, died on Monday at his apartment in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Paul V. Niemeyer, a judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Baltimore.
        A native of Essen, Germany, Dr. Niemeyer began teaching at Notre Dame in 1955 and became a professor emeritus in 1973. In the early 1950's, he was on the planning staff of the State Department's Office of United Nations Affairs and engaged in extensive political discussions with other conservative thinkers. He  formed a friendship with William F. Buckley Jr., the author and editor, who wrote the foreword for Dr. Niemeyer's last book, ''Aftersight and Foresight: Selected Essays'' (University Press of America, 1988).
        Dr. Niemeyer, who lectured at colleges and symposiums until 1992, sought to draw the often fuzzy line between philosophical thought and ideology.
        He was the author of 10 books and wrote many articles for periodicals like The Review of Politics, Modern Age and The National Review. Dr. Niemeyer discoursed on classical and modern political theory, ideology, problems of modernity, foreign policy, Christianity and the relationship between faith and philosophy.
        Deeming this the ''terrible century,'' he wrote that fascism, communism and other such modern mass movements were the legacy of disoriented philosophers. He said their ideas corroded the cultural mettle of a society and spawned ideologies with a limited view of humanity.
        Gerhart Niemeyer studied at the University of Munich and Cambridge University and received bachelor's and doctoral law degrees at the University of Kiel. Upon Hitler's rise to power, Dr. Niemeyer left Germany for Spain in 1933 and immigrated to the United States in 1937. He taught at Princeton University and elsewhere before he joined the State Department in 1950 as a foreign affairs specialist.
        Dr. Niemeyer's first book was ''Law Without Force'' (Princeton University Press, 1941) a work about international law. His other books included: ''An Inquiry Into Soviet Mentality'' (Praeger, 1956), ''Handbook on Communism'' (Praeger, 1962), ''Deceitful Peace'' (Arlington House, 1971), and ''Between Nothingness and Paradise'' (Louisiana State University Press, 1971).
        A member of the Episcopal Church, Dr. Niemeyer became a deacon in 1973, a priest in 1980 and a canon in 1987. He recently converted to Roman Catholicism.
        Dr. Niemeyer's wife of 55 years, Lucie Lenzner Niemeyer, died in 1987. Besides Paul, he is survived by three other sons, A. Herman, of West Chester, Pa., Lucian L., of Aston, Pa., and Dr. Christian B., of Nashville; a daughter, Lisa M. Silver of Greenwich; 11 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      