
        Louis Liotta, a respected photographer who worked at The New York Post for half a century, died on Friday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 76 and lived in Bath Beach, Brooklyn, where he was born.
        The cause was kidney failure, his newspaper colleagues said.
        Mr. Liotta, who was still a staff photographer at The Post at his death, had been on a leave of absence for more than a year because of his illness.
        ''He was happiest when he was shooting,'' Joseph Amari, The Post's sports photo editor, said. ''He loved it like nobody else.''
        Mr. Liotta's love for photography began at 14 when he got a job at the Acme photo agency, taking care of the agency's homing pigeons, which carried film of Brooklyn Dodgers games from Ebbets Field to Acme's offices in Manhattan.
        His career choice was confirmed when, at 20, Mr. Liotta joined the Navy and became the official photographer on the battleship Missouri during World War II. One of his first pictures was an image of the battleship lighted against the night sky by a firefight. It won him his first award, and more than 180 followed.
        After the war, Mr. Liotta joined The Post, where he remained faithful to his trade and his newspaper for the rest of his life.
        During a strike after a change in ownership at the newspaper in 1994, Mr. Liotta suddenly found himself without a job. But during that period,  a colleague at the Post, Juan B. Arellano, recalled, Mr. Liotta shot some dramatic frames that got him his job back and cemented his status around the newsroom. After the strike ended, Mr. Liotta was not among the first journalists recalled to their jobs. But he was the first journalist on the scene when a gunman shot at a van carrying Hasidic schoolchildren, killing one child and injuring three others.
        He took the roll of film to The Post. When the editor asked what he wanted for the pictures, Mr. Liotta replied that he wanted to come back to work. He was rehired on the spot, and his pictures made the front page the following day.
        Around the newsroom, Mr. Liotta was the veteran who greeted the newcomers and taught them the ropes. ''He was like a father figure,'' Mr. Amari said. ''If you were doing something wrong, he'd walk over and fix it. And he was always right.''
        Aside from his work, Mr. Liotta enjoyed vacations in Florida and betting on horses, Mr. Amari said.
        Survivors include his wife, Mildred, of Brooklyn; three sons,  Charles of Manhattan, Louis of Bedminster, N.J., and Robert of Brooklyn ; a daughter, Mary Ann of Brooklyn, and nine grandchildren. A funeral is planned for tomorrow.
        ''I would be surprised if Louis is not buried with a camera in his hands,'' Mr. Arellano said. ''He never went anywhere without it.''
      