
        Bulat S. Okudzhava, whose spare, telling poems helped forge an important new literature of dissent in Russia during the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday during a trip to Paris. He was 73.
        Although the cause was not immediately clear and his wife, Olga, told Russian reporters that he died ''from the psychological stress of loneliness,'' the Echo of Moscow Radio station reported today that he had serious complications from pneumonia.
        One of the most famous of Russia's postwar bards -- men who stood at kitchen tables and told and sang long anecdotes, folklore and poetry filled with subversive subtext -- Mr. Okudzhava became one of the most popular and powerful voices of his generation. His songs, lovingly memorized and repeated by millions, were recorded secretly and smuggled from tape player to tape player in homes across the Soviet Union.
        His work was never distributed officially during Soviet times nor taught in schools. His immense popularity -- he most often wrote of friendship, truth, labor and the enduring spirit -- testified to the distaste most people had for the official culture that the authorities constantly tried to force on them.
        Together with many of his contemporaries -- Vladimir Vysotsky, Aleksandr Galich, Yevgeny Yevtushenko, Bella Akhmadulina and others -- Mr. Okudzhava helped form what served for the Soviet Union as a beatnik movement. Unlike the much more flamboyant and visibly angry Mr. Vysotsky, Mr. Okudzhava rarely raised his voice, even when singing and strumming his acoustical guitar, or entered explicitly political debates. His messages of loss and unfulfilled longing were personal and often so well concealed in his work that the Soviet authorities, while expelling him from the Communist Party in 1972 and often prohibiting him from performing, never actually jailed him.
        ''Let us hold each other's hands so we will not die one by one,'' perhaps his most famous lyric, was a line that seemed inoffensive enough until one thought about it for a while. The official press often attacked Mr. Okudzhava for expressing such sentiments, accusing him of dangerous pacifism and being a dilettante. Nor did the authorities always ignore his digs. His third volume of poetry was originally titled ''The Midnight Trolley Bus,'' a reference to the last bus home and the last hope for all the ''shipwrecked,'' the drunks and the defeated who wandered the lonely streets of Moscow each night. The censors were appalled, forcing him to name the volume ''The Happy Drummer.''
        He often sang of the Arbat, one of Moscow's most famous and picturesque streets, which was destroyed by Nikita S. Khrushchev during a campaign to bring modern buildings to the city. His vaguely dissident image was reinforced by later novels, grotesque tales of 19th-century Russian revolutionaries and writers hunted down by the czarist secret service.
        Bulat Okudzhava was born on May 9, 1924, in Moscow, and his youth was consumed by the terror of the times. His father, who was Georgian and a Communist Party functionary, was shot in 1937, the worst year of Stalin's repression. His mother was arrested that year and spent a decade in labor camps.
        After studying linguistics at Tbilisi University in Georgia, Mr. Okudzhava enlisted in the army in 1942 and was wounded. After the war he taught at an agricultural school, was a journalist and worked for a publisher before focusing full time on his writing and music.
        Soviet critics attacked his autobiographical antiwar novel of 1961, ''Be Well, Schoolboy,'' complaining of the ''infantile psychology of the hero.'' Recordings of his songs were sold widely in West Germany and even in Poland in the late 1960's, but it was not until 1970 that he was permitted his first broadcast on Moscow Radio. In 1994, Mr. Okudzhava won the Russian Booker Prize. While not expressly political, he was one of the many intellectuals in Russia who broke with President Boris N. Yeltsin over the war in Chechnya, then reluctantly supported his re-election in 1996, when he ran against a Communist, Gennadi A. Zyuganov.
        He had many heart problems over the last decade, and several years ago he had bypass surgery in the United States. Last year he had a heart attack.
        Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin announced today that Mr. Okudzhava would be buried in Moscow's prestigious Vagankovskoye Cemetery on Tuesday.
      