
        Mary D. Keyserling, an economist who made women and children the focus of her work in and out of government, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in McLean, Va. She was 87 and had been director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau during the era of feminist ferment in the 1960's.
        Her brother, Dr. Thomas D. Dublin of Washington, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease.
        By 1964, when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her to head the Women's Bureau, Dr. Keyserling had established herself as a leading economist and as a champion of economic opportunities for women.
        She was also something of a Washington insider: the wife of Leon H. Keyserling, a prominent economist who had been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman, and a woman of accomplishment with a wide circle of influential friends.
        She had worked closely with Eleanor Roosevelt as chief of the research and statistics division of the Office of Civilian Defense in World War II, and with W.  Averell Harriman as chief of the Commerce Department's international economics division from 1946 to 1953.
        Dr. Keyserling was a onetime president of the Women's National Democratic Club.
        She also ran the District of Columbia Commission on the Status of Women and advised the National Academy of Sciences on child development, working on issues that had been a major concern since she was a child.
        Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
        As a girl growing up in Manhattan and on a farm in Westchester County, Dr. Keyserling weighed the rival parental influences, then blithely chose to follow both at once by becoming an economist specializing in social issues, like the sometimes high prices paid by consumers and the often low wages earned by women.
        After graduating from Barnard College, where she was president of her senior class, she did graduate work at the Geneva School of International Studies and the London School of Economics before to New York. It was at Columbia University that she caught the eye of Mr. Keyserling, a young economics instructor. They were married in 1940, when she was 30.
        As a Government economist in an era when the New Deal had attracted droves of women to high-level Federal positions, Dr. Keyserling had a lot of company in the corridors of power. But it was a tribute to her prominence that when the prestigious Cosmos Club in Washington finally deigned to admit women in 1988, she was one of the first 18 women to join.
        As director of the Women's Bureau until 1969, Dr. Keyserling was in the forefront of efforts to obtain and enforce Federal legislation banning sex discrimination in employment.
        It was a task that had its surreal moments, like the time she participated in a White House conference whose major concern seemed to be whether Playboy clubs would be forced to hire men as ''bunnies.''
        For all her official accomplishments, Dr. Keyserling may have made her most powerful impact on social policy after she left the Government. She supervised a vast study of commercial day-care operations for the National Council of Jewish Women, producing a highly critical 1972 report, ''Window on Day Care,'' that became the national blueprint for changes in such programs.
        Besides her brother, she is survived by another brother, Amos Dublin of Norwich, Vt. Her husband died in 1987.
      