
        Gonzalo Fonseca, a Uruguayan-born artist best known for his stone carvings of enigmatic architectural forms, died on June 11 at his studio in Seravezza, Italy, near the city of Lucca. He was 74.
        The cause was a stroke, said his son, Caio, a painter.
        Mr. Fonseca, who represented his native Uruguay in the 1990 Venice Biennale and created a 40-foot cast-concrete tower for the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City, began his career at a dynamic moment in Latin American art, studying painting in the workshop of the the renowned modernist Joaquin Torres-Garcia in Montevideo between 1942 and 1949.
        Sharing his teacher's concept of an art based on universal symbols, Mr. Fonseca traveled to Pre-Columbian ruins in Bolivia and Peru and to later archeological sites in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. (He worked for a time on an excavation in Syria with the British archeologist Lancaster Harding.)
        All of these influences, combined with those of contemporary European and American art, blended in a series of fantastic, often very beautiful small-scale stone sculptures in the form of miniature buildings that suggested a cross between temples and urban tenements. Their carved windows and doors were filled with odd, abstract objects, sometimes tethered with bits of string, which had the look of both ritual offerings and children's toys.
        Mr. Fonseca was born on July 2, 1922, in Montevideo, where his father, Rodolfo Fonseca, was an engineer and novelist. Gonzalo Fonseca studied to be an architect. After his involvement in the Torres-Garcia workshop, his travels led him to  Paris, where he lived until 1952. In the mid-1950's he married Elizabeth Kaplan of New York City. They were divorced nearly two decades later.
        Upon being awarded a Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship, he moved to Manhattan in the late 50's and thereafter divided his time between the United States and Italy. Mr. Fonseca's studio in Italy was also near the town of Carrara, where he worked on large-scale pieces of local marble; in New York, he often used limestone from demolished city buildings.
        In addition to exhibitions at the Museo de Bellas Artes in Caracas and the Galleria Naviglio in Milan, Mr. Fonseca had a one-man show at the Jewish Museum in Manhattan in 1970 and executed several public sculptures in the United States, including a glass mosaic mural for the New School for Social Research.
        Mr. Fonseca had only a few one-man shows at Manhattan galleries,  partly because of his own reluctance to show his work. The last was at the Arnold Herstand Gallery in 1991.
        But his sculptures appeared in several important group exhibitions, including ''The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the United States, 1920-1970'' at the Bronx Museum of the Arts in 1988; ''El Taller Torres-Garcia: The School of the South and Its Legacy,'' which was organized by the Archer M. Huntington Art Gallery of Austin, Tex., in 1991 and traveled to the Bronx Museum, and ''Latin American Artists of the 20th Century'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 1993.
        His work is in the permanent collections of the Guggenheim Museum and the Brooklyn Museum of Art, among others.
        In addition to his son, of New York City and Pietrasanta, Italy, Mr. Fonseca is survived by two daughters, Quina Fonseca Marvel of New York City and Isabel Fonseca of London; a brother, Jose Lucio Fonseca, and a sister, Elenota Fonseca, both of Montevideo, and three grandchildren.
      