
        Fidel Velazquez Sanchez, a former milkman who helped create Mexico's modern labor movement and then ran it with an iron fist for over half a century, died yesterday in Mexico City of cardiac and respiratory failure. He was 97.
        As head of Mexico's largest labor confederation for all but three years since he was first elected in 1941, Mr. Velazquez was one of the few public figures in Mexico with power enough to exert influence for decades on the  Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, which has governed Mexico without interruption since 1929.
        In a statement yesterday, President Ernesto Zedillo paid homage to Mr. Velazquez. ''He succeeded in reconciling the particular interests of labor with the general interest of the nation,'' Mr. Zedillo said.
        The relative timidity of the Mexican union movement and its close relationship with the Government, strategies largely engineered by Mr. Velazquez, are considered among the most important factors in maintaining stability and peace in modern Mexico despite ferocious economic problems and growing political discontent.
        With his shaded eyeglasses and blunt cigar, Mr. Velazquez was long considered the second most important political figure in Mexico, after the president, and because of the peculiarities of Mexican law, he was in at least one way even more powerful. Presidents serve one six-year term and are prohibited from being re-elected. All other public officials face similar restrictions.
        But Don Fidel, as he was universally known, kept his highly visible national post year after year. He was first elected head of the Confederation of Mexican Workers in 1941 after wresting power from a leftist contingent. He quickly won the confidence of workers, and went on to be re-elected 10 times. His organization now has six million members.
        Mr. Velazquez and the labor confederation amassed substantial political power in the 1940's. Members were required to belong to the PRI, and labor usually ran winning candidates for Congress and state houses who answered to Don Fidel.
        Mr. Velazquez was born on May 12, 1900 in a small town then called San Pedro Azcapotzaltongo, now Villa Nicolas Romero, about 20 miles northwest of Mexico City. He was the fifth of 17 children of Gregorio Velazquez, a hacienda administrator and sometime mayor, and Herlinda Sanchez. Seven of their children died in infancy, but several of the survivors lived into their 90's.
        Turn-of-the century Mexico was the setting for a turbulent era that saw the long rule of the dictator Porfirio Diaz come to an end, only to be replaced by anarchy as the 1910 Revolution became a consuming civil war. When he was 14, Mr. Velazquez watched his father being killed in a clash between rival forces. He himself was wounded in the shoulder.
        For years he would tell interviewers that while still a teen-ager, he fought on the side of Venustiano Carranza, who eventually overcame other forces to head Mexico's first stable post-revolutionary Government.
        When he was 96 he said that he was too young to have fought in the revolution, but that he took part in the religious strife known as the Cristero War in the 1920's on the side of the Government.
        He never finished the sixth grade, but that did not keep him from maintaining an iron-fisted hold on power for more than half a century. His irascible character was formed by the hard work and relative poverty of his early life and an abhorrence of the kind of chaos that crippled Mexico during its long Revolution.
        After his father died, he worked first in a woodworking shop, and then a dairy. He said the conditions for the workers there were so bad that he helped them organize a union, which cost him his job. But in 1921 he was successful in forming the Union of Milk Workers, which later affiliated with the national labor confederations, where he was to amass almost unlimited power.
        During his long tenure Mr. Velazquez was instrumental in getting legal recognition of the right to strike. In later years, though, strike threats became just a stick he would shake at the Government but never actually use. For many years through the 1950's and 1960's, Mr. Velazquez and the unions pressed for real wage increases that substantially improved the standard of living for Mexican workers.
        But a big change took place in the early 1980's, as Mexico was trying to dig out from a debt crisis caused by a drop in world oil prices. The Government thought its only way out of the crisis would be to control inflation and open the economy to investment and competition from outside Mexico. What was needed on both counts was a new approach to labor, one in which workers had to become more productive, while their salaries were limited to the point where they did not even keep up with inflation.
        Mr. Velazquez was willing to go along with the plan. In the 1980's and into this decade, he routinely signed agreements with the Government and business that placed the burden for Mexico's economic recovery on workers, who still have not regained the buying power they had in 1981.
        In an interview in early 1996, while Mexico was struggling through its worst economic crisis in this century, Mr. Velazquez acknowledged the criticisms of his tenure and the sacrifices that Mexican workers had been forced to make. ''Salaries have been kept at the level they have now because this has been the tonic that had to be applied,'' he said. ''But it's not  going to be that way forever. Someday there will be an improvement for  the workers.''
        As he aged, his ideas became more conservative. In editorial cartoons he was usually portrayed as a dinosaur, and after Indian rebels staged an uprising in the poor southern state of Chiapas on Jan. 1, 1994, the same day the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect, he opposed negotiating with them.
        ''They should be exterminated,'' he said.
        Mr. Velazquez believed Nafta would help Mexican workers. He encouraged the Government to sell off the hundreds of state-owned enterprises it had acquired in the 1970's.
        In a country where most public figures do not respond to questions from the press, Mr. Velazquez stood practically alone in holding weekly news conferences that became a staple of Mexican journalism, a south-of-the-border counterpart to Sunday morning political talk shows in the United States. They continued until his recent hospitalization.
        During those conferences he would toy with the dozens of Mexican journalists always present, making outrageous threats to call a general strike or demanding exorbitant salary increases. Days later he would compromise for a percentage of what he had asked for. He would freely contradict earlier statements or disavow having made them, simply telling the reporters that they had gotten it wrong.
        As his 96th birthday neared, reporters asked him how he would celebrate it. ''Dancing at a disco,'' he responded. The statement made the nightly news.
        To his last days, Mr. Velazquez preserved his uniquely pithy sense of humor. As recently as Friday he laughed about the idea of dying, quipping, ''Death came for me, but it turned down the wrong street.''
        Mr. Velazquez's first marriage ended in divorce in 1931. He is survived by his second wife, Nora; their three children, Nora Velazquez de Castro of Tamaulipas and Fidel and Guillermo of Mexico City, and six grandchildren.
      