
        Betty Shabazz, who saw her husband, Malcolm X, assassinated 32 years ago and sought to preserve his memory and teachings in a life that became a symbol of perseverance to black America, died yesterday at a Bronx hospital, three weeks after suffering extensive burns in a fire apparently set by her troubled 12-year-old grandson. She was 61.
        Dr. Shabazz had suffered third-degree burns over 80 percent of her body in the fire at her Yonkers apartment on June 1 and had undergone five operations at Jacobi Medical Center to replace burned tissue. Doctors had said her chances of survival were extremely low.
        After weeks of a fight for life that seemed to defy the medical experts and to mirror her own decades of struggle, the death of Dr. Shabazz was met with an outpouring of grief and solemn statements by her family, political and civil rights leaders,  colleagues and friends, and hundreds of ordinary people whose lives she had touched. $(Page D20.$)
        ''Our mother made a transition -- I'd like to think of it as that,'' Attallah Shabazz said at the hospital shortly after the announcement of  death at 2:46 P.M. Ms. Shabazz is the eldest of the six daughters Dr. Shabazz raised while earning a doctorate and making a career for herself as a college official and a voice in the civil rights movement.
        ''Her living life was very strong, and her fight here showed that endurance,'' Ms. Shabazz said, standing with her sisters. ''We are a family of daughters who got to learn a lot more about our mother, as have a lot of people around the globe.''
        As many of the dignitaries and friends who had visited the hospital in recent weeks noted yesterday, the death of Dr. Shabazz was the latest tragedy in an extraordinary family that is still coping with a singular historical moment.
        On Feb. 21, 1965, Dr. Shabazz, pregnant with twins, sat with her four small daughters in the Audubon Ballroom on 165th Street in Washington Heights as the tall, fiery orator who had been her husband for seven years prepared to address a crowd of 400 people. She was worried.
        Malcolm X had undergone a conversion and renounced the black nationalist, virulently anti-white views of Elijah Muhammad and the Nation of Islam, and was espousing moderate themes of black self-determination, even possible coalition with white people. Louis Farrakhan, a rising young star of the Nation of Islam, had vilified Malcolm X as a traitor.
        His wife knew that he had many enemies. There had been death threats. A week earlier, the family's house in Elmhurst, Queens, had been firebombed in the night. But Malcolm X seemed undaunted as he stepped behind a flimsy lectern, intoned the Muslim salutation ''Salaam Aleikum,'' and began to speak.
        Suddenly, the killers closed in. Gunfire roared, and the terrible images were burned into her memory: Malcolm X's body, raked with bullets, falling at the front, wild confusion, her arms reaching out to cover her children on the floor; her own voice, like a stranger's, shouting: ''They're killing my husband!''
        She was only 28, with little money, a big family and half an education. And if she had been a quiet helpmate to the tumultuous Malcolm X, she could hardly have foreseen the hardships of carrying on for one whose complex legacy would be claimed by radicals and conservatives, whose life would be explored in film, opera, books and essays, whose angry words would be celebrated by rap artists, and whose ''X'' would be emblazoned on caps and T-shirts across America.
        ''I'm private,'' Dr. Shabazz, who never remarried, said after Spike Lee's 1992 film ''Malcolm X'' created a new surge of interest in her husband. ''But there were some public things I had to do, because of his commitment to the cause. I loved him, and he loved the people.''
        She survived at first on money from her husband's estate, on royalties from ''The Autobiography of Malcolm X,'' which was told to Alex Haley and published in 1965, and on fees for consulting work for Malcolm X College in Chicago and other institutions. Dr. Shabazz, who had attended the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and nursing school in New York, returned to classes at Brooklyn State Hospital and earned certification as a registered nurse.
        Later, she attended Jersey State College and earned a bachelor's degree in public health education and a master's degree in early childhood education. In 1975, after a decade of juggling the obligations of motherhood, her studies, consulting work and public appearances, she received a doctorate in education administration from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
        A year later, Dr. Shabazz joined Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn, a part of the City University, becoming director of communications and public relations, a position she held for many years. In recent years, she was  director of institutional advancement, raising money for scholarships and books.
        Meanwhile, she raised six daughters -- Attallah, Qubilah, Ilyasah, Gamilah and the twins Malikah and Malaak -- in Queens and later in Mount Vernon, N.Y., teaching them about their father by emulating his self-discipline. ''I taught them about him by myself being disciplined and strict,'' she said in a 1993 interview. ''My children think my persona is me, when actually it is their father's.''
        The girls attended good schools. Qubilah graduated from the United Nations School in Manhattan, attended Princeton University and had a son, Malcolm Shabazz. The others include a playwright, a professional speaker and a singer.
        Dr. Shabazz also began an irregular but busy speaking schedule, at high school and college commencements, at conferences on black history and race relations, on television and at the openings of plays, films and other events based on Malcolm X. She usually spoke of health and education for disadvantaged children, but also of Malcolm X and the causes for which he lived and died.
        Alhough Malcolm X was enigmatic and controversial -- he preached black self-determination with the caveat ''by any means necessary'' -- Dr. Shabazz always struck positive themes in her recollections.
        ''Malcolm's agenda was human rights and self-determination,'' she said in a 1992 interview with The Atlanta Journal and Constitution. ''Free people have a right to self-determination, self-defense. Now, a lot of people say, 'Self-defense? Oh, my God, that's violence.' If people think 'by any means necessary' means violence, what that says is that that individual is violent and hostile. But not my husband.''
        The future wife of Malcolm X was born Betty Sanders in Detroit on May 28, 1936. She was adopted and raised by an upper-middle-class Methodist family, who sent her to Tuskegee. But she was determined to study nursing in New York, and met Malcolm X in 1956 at Mosque No. 7 in Harlem, one of the Nation of Islam's main temples.
        She was 20 and he was the 30-year-old minister in charge, a charismatic orator with stunning confidence. ''He was just an awesome kind of guy,'' she recalled. ''He was disciplined. He knew what he was going to do, and if he said he was going to do it, he did it. And he had a certain kind of worldly maturity that women my age at the time just dreamed about.''
        Only later did she learn that he had been born Malcolm Little, the son of a Nebraska preacher, and had grown up in Michigan, moved to Boston, become a thief and gone to prison. There, he had undergone a conversion to Islam and, after emerging from jail in 1952, became a sonlike aide to the Nation of Islam's leader, Elijah Muhammad.
        In 1958, after a two-year relationship with Miss Sanders in which, by his own account, ''there had never been one personal word spoken between us,'' Malcolm X proposed marriage in a telephone call from Detroit. She accepted, convinced, as she later put it, of his greatness and of the importance of his work. They settled into a home in Queens and began raising a family.
        By the early 1960's, many white Americans, and many blacks who had begun to put their hopes in integration and their faith in the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., saw Malcolm X as a menacing figure with a message of hate. He preached a militant black nationalism that branded whites as ''devils'' and dismissed Dr. King as an ''ignorant Negro preacher.''
        In 1964, however, Malcolm X broke with Mr. Muhammad and was in turn denounced by Mr. Farrakhan, who succeeded him at Mosque No. 7 and at the right hand of Mr. Muhammad. Malcolm X went on a pilgrimage to Mecca, became a Sunni Muslim and chose a new name, El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz, signifying rebirth. His wife became Betty Shabazz.
        Returning home, he formed his own Muslim group and began preaching a message of black self-determination that allowed for some cooperation with whites of good will. While the ferocious images that had frightened many were softened in his last year, Malcolm X was constantly being vilified in the pages of ''Muhammad Speaks,'' the Black Muslim newspaper, and Mr. Farrakhan had said he was ''worthy of death.''
        After Malcolm X's assassination, suspicion swirled around the Nation of Islam, and three Black Muslim zealots were eventually convicted of the killing. But for years afterward, speculation persisted that Mr. Farrakhan was somehow involved.
        Throughout those years, the suspicions fed the tensions between Mr. Farrakhan and Dr. Shabazz's family. In a 1994 television interview, Dr. Shabazz strongly intimated that Mr. Farrakhan had been involved in the assassination. Mr. Farrakhan denied it, as he had many times.
        In a bizarre twist to the feud, Dr. Shabazz's daughter, Qubilah, was charged in Minneapolis in 1995 with plotting to kill Mr. Farrakhan because she believed that he had had a role in her father's death and was a threat to her mother. She was said to have paid an old friend, who turned out to be a government informer, to carry out the plot.
        After Ms. Shabazz's arrest, Dr. Shabazz and Mr. Farrakhan made a public reconciliation.
        The indictment was dismissed last month under an agreement that required her to undergo two years of psychiatric and chemical dependency treatment, partly in Texas. Her son, Malcolm, 12, apparently angry over his mother's absence and his long stay with his grandmother, was said to have set the gasoline fire that fatally burned Dr. Shabazz.
        Over the years, Dr. Shabazz was a frequent speaker at women's conferences as well as civil rights and education gatherings. She appeared at tributes, plays and other cultural events tied to her husband's name, including a 1986 opera called ''X.''
        Her closest friends included Coretta Scott King, the widow of Dr. King, and Myrlie Evers-Williams, the chairwoman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the widow of Medgar Evers, the civil rights leader slain in 1963.
      