
        Benjamin Zemach, an American modern-dance pioneer who specialized in Jewish themes but also worked more broadly in the theater and in films, died on June 18 in Jerusalem. He was 95.
        He had moved to Israel in 1971, said a friend, Naima Prevots, head of the dance department at American University in Washington.
        Mr. Zemach was a young actor in the Habima Theater of Moscow when the American impresario Sol Hurok brought the company's Hebrew-language production of ''The Dybbuk'' to New York in December 1926.
        The troupe, founded by Mr. Zemach's brother, Naum Zemach, was reorganized in what was then Palestine after this engagement, but Benjamin Zemach remained in New York. He later worked in Los Angeles as a choreographer, play director and teacher. Among the actors who studied with him were Lee J. Cobb, Alan Arkin, Herschel Bernardi, Sam Jaffe and Adeline Gibbs.
        In the late 20's, Mr. Zemach quickly became part of a circle of dancers, including Martha Graham and Michio Ito, who were involved in experimental productions at the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York. He also went on to work in the commercial theater. In the 30's, he choreographed the musical ''Pins and Needles'' and directed plays, including ''Salome'' at the Pasadena Playhouse. In 1941, he directed ''Natural Man'' for the American Negro Theater.
        During his first stay in Los Angeles, from 1932 to 1935, he created two dance pieces for the Hollywood Bowl, ''Fragments of Israel'' and ''Victory Ball,'' which aroused debate because of its antiwar message. In 1935, he did the dances for the films ''She'' and ''Last Days of Pompeii.''
        Mr. Zemach was born in a part of Poland that was within the Russian empire in 1902 and moved to Moscow with his brothers at the outbreak of World War I. In Habima, he came under the influence of Konstantin Stanislavsky and the avant-garde Russian directors Yevgeny Vakhtangov and Vsevolod Meyerhold, all of whom were associated with Habima.
        In Moscow, Mr. Zemach studied ballet with Vera Moslova, a former Bolshoi Ballet dancer, and modern dance with Inna Tchernezkaya, a pupil of the internationally known choreographer and dancer Alexandre Sakharoff. In addition, he studied the relationship between music and dance according to the Dalcroze Eurythmics method. It was during this time that he choreographed ''Beggar's Dance,'' which became a signature piece in his American programs.
        John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, reviewing one of Mr. Zemach's earliest concerts in New York in 1928, called him ''a dramatic pantomimist.'' ''His vitality is superb, his body agile and responsive,'' the critic wrote but seemed concerned about Mr. Zemach's use of dance for a political, and in this case, Zionist, message.
        By 1931, Martin saw a change in idiom. ''Mr. Zemach has for some seasons been an outstanding figure in the local dance field,'' he wrote of the choreographer's troupe, which performed works related to Hasidic themes: ''There is something fundamentally allied to the sharp attack and slow recovery of Martha Graham's method, though it is put to different use.'' Like Graham, Mr. Zemach danced on Neighborhood Playhouse programs, which included his ''Toccata and Fugue in D Minor,'' performed to Bach by himself and an ensemble.
        His signature pieces, which included ''Ruth'' and ''Farewell to Queen Sabbath,'' emphasized ''inner characterization, emotional gesture and dramatic rhythm,'' Ms. Prevots said.
        After working in Los Angeles, Mr. Zemach returned to New York in 1936 with two pupils, Frieda Flier and Thelma Babitz, who joined Graham's company. While continuing to dance in concerts, he choreographed ''Pins and Needles'' and a Max Reinhardt production, ''The Eternal Road.'' In 1945, he coordinated a festival, ''African Dances and Modern Rhythms,'' which Eleanor Roosevelt attended as guest of honor at Carnegie Hall.
        Mr. Zemach was based again in Los Angeles from 1948 until his move to Israel in 1971. But in 1989, at the age of 87, he directed and choreographed an English version of Abraham Goldfaden's musical ''The Witch'' for the Jewish Repertory Theater in New York. Richard F. Shepard in The Times called it ''a treat for the eyes, particularly eyes attuned to graceful movement.''
        Mr. Zemach is survived by a daughter, Amielle, and five grandchildren.
      