
        Robert Serber, a theoretical physicist who was the intellectual midwife at the birth of the atomic bomb and helped shape particle physics research for decades, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. He was 88.
        The cause was complications following surgery for brain cancer, said his wife, Fiona.
        Dr. Serber was a protege of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, the director of the Los Alamos project, which developed the bomb in World War II. From the summer of 1942 until March 1943, ''Oppie and I were the Los Alamos project so far as theory was concerned,'' Dr. Serber once said.
        At crucial moments, Dr. Serber pointed the way for experimental physicists. In April 1943, when scientists were gathering at Los Alamos, in New Mexico, Dr. Serber told them what they needed to know about fission to build an atomic bomb. His notes for those introductory sessions became the ''Los Alamos Primer,'' the laboratory's first report. After the war, he gave a well-known series of lectures at the University of California at Berkeley, later distributed in mimeographed form as ''Serber Says,'' to bring experimental physicists up to speed on nuclear theory so they could branch out in new directions in peacetime research.
        And he performed much the same service in subsequent years, pulling the many threads of theory together for experimentalists at leading particle physics centers nationwide so their work could be more fruitful.
        ''He was an almost ideal bridge between the theoretical and experimental communities,'' Dr. Wolfgang Panofsky, the retired director of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, said in an interview. ''Other theorists may have made more fundamental contributions, but they simply did not interact with the experimentalists as he did.'' Dr. Serber's talent was being able to comprehend a theory at its widest and narrowest points and to communicate that information to others, Dr. Panofsky said.
        Dr. Serber was too interested in the nuts and bolts of how physics research was done to be a ''super-highbrow theorist,'' Dr. Panofsky said. He was fascinated by the ''gadgets'' of experimental physics and ''understood what made them tick,'' Dr. Panofsky added.
        That practicality meant that Dr. Serber's role in the atomic bomb project did not end when the weapon was successfully tested on July 16, 1945. By the end of that month, he was crossing the Pacific to advise the military on using the bombs and to reassure the air crews that would drop them. Later, he was with the first American team to enter Hiroshima and Nagasaki to assess the damage from the atomic bombs.
        Dr. Serber was drawn into Dr. Oppenheimer's circle early in his career.
        Born on March 14, 1909, in Philadelphia, Robert Serber earned a bachelor's degree from Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., in 1930, and his Ph.D. in physics at the University of Wisconsin in 1934 during the Depression -- not a propitious time to start looking for a permanent university job. So Dr. Serber headed east for more study at Princeton University.
        But on the way, he stopped at the University of Wisconsin at Ann Arbor, where he heard Dr. Oppenheimer give a guest lecture. Dr. Serber was so captivated that he headed west to the University of California at Berkeley to work with Dr. Oppenheimer, who became his mentor and later, his friend.
        When Dr. Oppenheimer was chosen at the end of 1941 to head the Los Alamos end of the Manhattan Project, he immediately turned to Dr. Serber, then an associate professor at the University of Illinois, and asked him to serve as his assistant.
        Dr. Serber and his wife, Charlotte, moved into a room over the garage of Robert and Katherine Oppenheimer's house in Berkeley in April 1942, and they moved to the research center taking shape in the sands of Los Alamos a year later. Dr. Oppenheimer chose Charlotte Serber to be the site librarian, making her the only female section leader.
        After the Trinity test showed that the atomic bomb would work, Dr. Serber was sent to Tinian Island, in the Marianas in the South Pacific, where atomic bombs were being prepared. Dr. Serber was on hand to give quick advice about any changes that had to be made.
        Col. Paul Tibbets, the pilot of the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, asked Dr. Serber if he and his crew would survive the blast, Dr. Serber wrote in an account in The Sciences magazine in 1995, so Dr. Serber did some quick calculations. ''I did not know much about planes, but I assured him that he and the Enola Gay would be safe,'' Dr. Serber wrote.
        Dr. Serber attended the Aug. 6, 1945, briefing for the Hiroshima mission, and he was ''overjoyed'' the next morning to hear that the mission had been a success.
        Three days later, Dr. Serber was aboard one of the planes for the Nagasaki bombing mission; his job was to take photographs. The plane was rolling down the runway when the pilot called for a parachute check.
        ''We were one parachute short -- mine,'' Dr. Serber wrote. ''The supply sergeant had neglected to give me one. The pilot ordered me put off the plane. That was truly idiotic: the mission of the plane was to take pictures, and I was the only one aboard who knew how to run the camera.'' But it did not matter in the end, he said; the pilot of that plane missed the rendezvous spot and was late in getting to Nagasaki. The tail gunner took a photograph of the mushroom cloud with a snapshot camera.
        In early September 1945, Dr. Serber was part of the first team sent to Japan to assess the damage done by the bombs. In Nagasaki, and later Hiroshima, Dr. Serber and the other scientists measured radiation levels and recorded the damage. From shadows that had been burned into walls by the blast, Dr. Serber was able to calculate how high the bomb had been when it had exploded and how large the fireball had been.
        While that trip gave Dr. Serber a firsthand view of the devastation, he remained convinced that the use of atomic weapons against Japan had been necessary to save the lives that would have been lost in an invasion. ''Oppie had told me that the medical corps was prepared for half a million casualties, and I had no reason to doubt him,'' Dr. Serber wrote in 1995 in The Sciences, an article written with Dr. Robert P. Crease, a historian at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. ''My thoughts about the wisdom of using the atomic bomb to bring a quick end to the war have not changed a bit since then.''
        While he later became an advocate of arms control, he never became an outspoken critic of nuclear weapons, as did some other Manhattan Project scientists.
        After the war, Dr. Serber became a professor at Berkeley. He moved to Columbia University in 1951, at least in part, Dr. Panofsky said, because he objected to taking the oath of loyalty to the United States that was required of California professors.
        Dr. Serber was one of the Manhattan Project scientists whose loyalty was questioned after the war, Dr. Crease said. He was cleared at a security hearing in 1948, but he was denied a security clearance in 1952 needed to attend a physics conference in Japan, Dr. Crease said. That angered him so much that he refused to join an advisory group put together by Dr. Edward Teller to advise the Department of Defense.
        Dr. Serber spent much of his time advising experimental physicists at cyclotrons and linear accelerators at places like Brookhaven, Stanford, Los Alamos, Fermi National Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory. He was an expert on proton-proton interactions and on the focusing properties of the detecting instruments themselves.
        At Columbia, Dr. Serber became the chairman of the physics department in 1975; he retired in 1978. He served as president of the American Physical Society in 1971 and received the J. Robert Oppenheimer Prize for physics in 1972. His memoirs, as told to Dr. Crease, are scheduled to be published by Columbia University Press in March 1998.
        Charlotte Serber died in 1967. Dr. Serber is survived by the former Fiona St. Clair, whom he married in 1979, and by two sons, Zachariah and William, who are both studying in Edinburgh.
        Correction:  June 9, 1997, Monday
        An obituary last Monday about Robert Serber, a theoretical physicist who aided development of the atomic bomb, misidentified the university where he heard Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, his future mentor and friend, give a guest lecture. It was the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, not the University of Wisconsin.
      