
        Peter Blos, one of the first child psychoanalysts and a leading authority on adolescence, died last Thursday in Holderness, N.H., where he had a country home. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Blos ''was 'Mr. Adolescence' for many, many years,'' said Albert J. Solnit, Commissioner of Mental Health and Addiction Services for Connecticut and a founder, with Dr. Blos and others, of the Association for Child Psychoanalysis.
        Dr. Solnit described Dr. Blos as a strong-willed but patient man who had a flair for dealing with teen-agers. He was a pioneer in understanding and describing their inherent struggle: that of reconciling a desire to break free of parental bonds with a strong pull toward remaining dependent.
        ''It's the essential conflict that leads to so many of the contradictions in adolescence,'' Dr. Solnit said.
        Dr. Blos presented his ideas in four books and other writings, and his 1962 volume, ''On Adolescence,'' ''became sort of a bible in the field,'' said Dr. Aaron Esman, professor emeritus of clinical psychiatry at Cornell University Medical College. The book is still used as a basic teaching text.
        ''It was a great work of synthesis,'' said Elisabeth Young-Bruehl, an analyst and the author of a biography of Anna Freud. No one before him, she said, had realized there was a need for this sort of systematic approach.
        Dr. Blos was born in Karlsruhe, Germany, in 1904 and studied education at the University of Heidelberg, with the goal of becoming a science teacher. He then received a Ph.D. in biology from the University of Vienna.
        He was diverted from the career path in the 1920's through an acquaintance with Freud's daughter, Anna. Anna Freud needed someone to tutor the children of Dorothy Burlingham, a Tiffany heir who, like other wealthy Americans, had come to Vienna to pursue psychoanalysis.
        Dr. Blos set up a small school for Mrs. Burlingham's four children and others. He recruited an old childhood friend and artist, Erik Homburger, to come to Vienna and help him.
        The school they established was one of the first to employ psychoanalytic principles, which encouraged children to learn for themselves rather than to rely on rote instruction.
        It was through this teaching that Dr. Blos decided to focus on the psychological problems of children, and he underwent some analytical training in Vienna. (Erik Homburger, later known as Erik Erikson, was analyzed by Anna Freud and later became a leading figure in psychoanalysis.)
        The rise of Nazism prompted Dr. Blos to leave Vienna for the United States in 1933. He settled first in New Orleans, where he taught at a private school, and then moved to New York, where he continued his analytical training and became involved in a major foundation-backed study of adolescence. It was this work that helped form the basis of his ideas on the subject.
        Those ideas were broadened with the publication of another book, ''The Adolescent Passage,'' in 1979, in which he described a second individuation process for adolescents.
        In this stage, the child must separate from the father just as the child had to separate from the mother during early childhood.
        Like those in his early work, the ideas in ''The Adolescent Passage'' rang true, said Dr. John Munder Ross, an author and training analyst at Columbia.
        The second individuation process ''is a critical factor in the genesis of adult personality disorders,'' he said. ''You really do see this in some young men in their 20's,'' he added, and those who are foundering have never given up the notion of the father as rescuer.
        Dr. Blos's first wife, Merta Grone, died in 1979. He is survived by his wife, Bessy Thomas Blos; a son, Dr. Peter Blos Jr. of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a daughter, Lillemor Beenhouwer of suburban Boston; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 20, 1997, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Dr. Peter Blos, a child psychoanalyst and an authority on adolescence, misspelled his wife's given name. She is Dr. Betsy Thomas Blos, not Bessy.
      