
        C. Martin Wilbur, an authority on the history and politics of 20th-century China and a former director of Columbia University's East Asian Institute, died on Wednesday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 89.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Ann MacKenzie.
        Dr. Wilbur joined the Columbia faculty in 1947. He was the institute's director from 1958 to 1964 and George Sansom Professor of Chinese History from 1966 until 1976, when he retired from that post to devote more time to research and writing.
        The institute's current director, Madeleine Zelin, said yesterday that Dr. Wilbur was ''in many ways one of the founders of 20th-century Chinese history in the United States.'' She said that area of history was ''an extremely underdeveloped field'' when he began teaching at Columbia.
        Dr. Wilbur's best-known book is ''Sun Yat-sen, Frustrated Patriot'' (Columbia University Press, 1976), a biography of the Chinese revolutionary, who lived from 1866 to 1925. Much of Dr. Wilbur's scholarly work focused on the early development of the Nationalist Party, which was organized just before World War I with Sun Yat-sen as its nominal leader. It started out calling for moderate socialism and parliamentary democracy in China and, since 1949, has been governing Taiwan.
        Dr. Wilbur's scholarship focused largely on the relationship between the Nationalists and the Chinese Communists in the 1920's and 1930's. His studies of the 1920's included important work on the relationship between the Nationalists and the Soviet Union, and he played a key role in building up the East Asian Institute at Columbia.
        And he was the moving force behind the founding at the university of the Chinese Oral History Project, documenting Chinese history up to 1949. The project was made public in 1959, when five prominent Nationalists had begun tape-recording their recollections for future scholars. The recorded reminiscences of a number of Chinese political and intellectual leaders, along with their papers and written memoires, are now housed in Columbia's Rare Book Library.
        Dr. Wilbur was also instrumental in the founding of Columbia's University Seminar on Modern China, which brings scholars from the northeastern United States together monthly to discuss major issues in modern Chinese history and politics and contemporary Chinese affairs.
        Andrew J. Nathan, a political scientist at Columbia, said yesterday that Dr. Wilbur ''devoted enormous effort to developing American academic ties with Chinese scholars in Taiwan and had many students there,'' and ''he was a devoted teacher -- he spent a lot of time with his Columbia students, helping and advising them.''
        Clarence Martin Wilbur was born in Dayton, Ohio, and spent 19 years in China and Japan, where his parents were missionaries. He graduated in 1931 from Oberlin College and received his doctorate in 1941 from Columbia.
        Besides his daughter, Ann MacKenzie of Toronto, Dr. Wilbur is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Kathryn Edson; a son, John Hollis Wilbur of Highland Park, N.J.; a brother, Halsey Wilbur of Oberlin, Ohio; and a sister, Elizabeth Cressey of Seattle.
      