
        William Slater Brown, one of the last survivors of the Lost Generation of writers whose restless, rebellious lives were shaped by World War I and the postwar bohemian society of Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 100.
        Mr. Brown, a member of an old New England family, was for half his life a hard-drinking, hard-smoking, womanizing writer whose circle of close friends was formed by people who went on to become some of the most prominent figures of 20th-century American letters: E. E. Cummings, Hart Crane, Malcolm Cowley, Edmund Wilson, Djuna Barnes, Eugene O'Neill, Kenneth Burke, Matthew Josephson, John Dos Passos and Edna St. Vincent Millay.
        In his own right, Mr. Brown, who worked at various times for such magazines as The New Masses and The New Republic and contributed to magazines like Dial and Secession, was the author of 10 books, including a novel, a biography for children and a study of parapsychology and the occult.
        ''He could have been a major writer,'' said his nephew, James Lincoln Collier, a prominent jazz historian, social critic, biographer and author of children's books. ''All his friends knew that, but they also knew he was so self-destructive it wasn't going to happen.''
        But Mr. Brown, who figures in the works of contemporaries like Dos Passos and Cummings, with whom he was imprisoned in France, defied the odds against his survival. Midway through his life, he abandoned his long struggle against his bourgeois Victorian upbringing: he gave up alcohol; he turned away from his old literary friends; he returned to the church, and, having earlier been divorced, he entered into a happy,  enduring marriage, to Mary James, a grandniece of William and Henry James. Eventually he gave up cigarettes and the occasional cigar.
        In 1943, Bobbs-Merrill published his novel, ''The Burning Wheel,'' about the damage wrought by intellectual and wealthy people who moved into a rural area. Among his other adult books were the nonfiction ''World of the Wind'' (1961), ''World of the Desert'' (1963) and his final work, ''The Heyday of Spiritualism'' (1970). He was also the author of ''Ethan Allen and the Green Mountain Boys'' (1956).
        In his later years, after he appeared in the memoirs of fellow members of the Lost Generation, like Hart Crane, Mr. Brown was a mine of information for their biographers.
        Mr. Brown was in part the model for the world-weary newspaperman Jimmy Herf in Dos Passos's ''Manhattan Transfer,'' and he appears as ''B.'' in ''The Enormous Room,'' Cummings's account of their detention by the French while they were serving during World War I as members of the Norton-Harjes Ambulance Corps, a unit of the American Red Cross.
        Mr. Brown was the great-grandson of Samuel Slater, the British-born founder of the American cotton textile industry whom Andrew Jackson called the father of American manufacturers. Mr. Brown was born and reared in Webster, Mass., as the eldest of the four children of Frederick Augustus Brown, a physician, and the former Katharine Slater.
        After a year at Tufts, Mr. Brown was ostensibly studying journalism at Columbia University when the United States entered World War I in 1917. A pacifist, he signed up for the ambulance corps and was on deck, gazing at New York harbor as he sailed for France, when another young man asked for a light for his cigarette.
        It was E. E. Cummings. The two became friends. In France, when Mr. Brown wrote unflattering letters about the French that referred to a rebellion among their troops that the Army was trying to conceal, he and Cummings were imprisoned by the French military.
        Cummings, who had written nothing, was released first. Mr. Brown was imprisoned for several months before he was freed, his health shattered, and expelled from France. Not long after he and Cummings returned to the United States, they were drafted, but neither was accepted for service. They took an apartment on the edge of Greenwich Village and entered into its rich intellectual life.
        Mr. Brown worked and wrote for little magazines, and after the stock market crash of 1929, Malcolm Cowley got him a job at The New Republic. But Mr. Brown quit when he fell heir to a small legacy and began to work on novels. As his money ran out, he worked for The New Masses and wrote pulp detective fiction on the side. In the late 1940's, he began to change his life. He and Mary James were married in 1957.
        Mr. Brown is survived by a sister, Joyce Bailey of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Rachel Brown of Toulouse, France, five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        ''He was a great raconteur,'' his daughter said yesterday. ''He was wonderful telling stories about his life and the lives of others. He enjoyed laughing and the laughter of others as well.''
      