
        Albert L. Latter, a nuclear physicist and expert on nuclear weapons systems' abilities and vulnerabilities, died on June 8 at his home in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. He was 76.
        His death was announced on Wednesday by the Rand Corporation, the research concern based in Santa Monica, Calif., where Dr. Latter worked from 1951 to 1971. Rand's public information director, Jess Cook, said Dr. Latter had had a long illness.
        While Dr. Latter was at Rand, he was the co-author, with the physicist Edward Teller, of a widely noted 1958 book, ''Our Nuclear Future: Facts, Dangers and Opportunities.'' The two men had worked together on the Air Force's Scientific Advisory Board.
        Reviewing the work in The New York Times Book Review, Leonard Engel, a science writer, said the authors presented ''a strong, carefully reasoned plea'' for the Atomic Energy Commission's nuclear bomb-testing program ''and the necessity of continuing it, at least for the near future.''
        In their book, Dr. Latter and Dr. Teller contended that past nuclear weapons tests had caused at most a very minor increase in the world's exposure to radioactivity without detectably having an impact on human life and that further testing at the current rate for several years would not alter that. The authors also argued that trying to ban bomb tests would fail because they could be hidden and because the Soviet Union could not be relied on to obey a ban.
        ''It is almost certain,'' they wrote, ''that in the competition between prohibition and bootlegging, the bootlegger will win.''
        In 1960, Dr. Latter became head of the physics department at Rand, where the aspects of nuclear weapons he dealt with ranged from their design and efficiency to defensive steps against them. He also played a significant role in developing certain advanced missile warheads and in devising ways to detect underground nuclear tests.
        Among the honors he received was an Atomic Energy Commission award in 1964 for his contributions to the design of nuclear weapons and to the detection of nuclear explosions. He also did important work in contriving measures to strengthen United States missile silos to make them less vulnerable to nuclear attack.
        Dr. Latter left Rand in 1971 and founded R & D Associates, a defense company based in Marina del Rey, Calif. In 1983, when the company was acquired by Logicon Inc., it was providing high-technology electronic systems and professional services, mainly to the Defense Department. Dr. Latter was the president until he retired from that post in 1985.
        Dr. Latter was born in Kokomo, Ind., and received a bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics in 1941 and a doctorate in physics in 1951, both from the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; two daughters, Christina Kelton of Cincinnati and Jacqueline Latter of Los Angeles; a brother, Richard of McLean, Va., and three grandchildren.
      