
        William L. Turnbull Jr., an architect whose early collaboration with Charles Moore led to a career of buildings that earnestly and profoundly expressed a sense of place, died Thursday at his home in Sausalito, Calif. He was 62.
        The cause was cancer, according to his wife, Mary Griffin.
        Mr. Turnbull collaborated with Mr. Moore, who died in 1993, on Sea Ranch, a condominium project on the Pacific Coast in Sonoma County, Calif., that not long after its completion in 1965 became an icon of American architecture. Sea Ranch's shed-like structures of wood, which stood out like abstract sculptures against the craggy Pacific Coast, seemed to be a whole new way of making modern buildings in the early 1960's, when most sensibilities had been formed by the glass and steel boxes of orthodox modern architecture.
        Mr. Moore, Mr. Turnbull and their  collaborators -- Donlyn Lyndon, Richard Whitaker, Lawrence Halprin and Joseph Esherick -- rejected modernist boxes in favor of wooden buildings that were relaxed, almost funky, combining a sense of tradition with abstraction. Sea Ranch soon became the inspiration not only for a new California style of building, but also for hundreds of ski and beach houses on the East Coast.
        In the process of creating Sea Ranch, four of the partners joined as the firm of Moore Lyndon Turnbull Whitaker. It was short-lived: the firm's increasing fame led to the rapid departure of three partners to become deans of architecture schools. Only Mr. Turnbull stayed in the Bay Area, operating in informal partnership with his colleagues for several years and since 1970 as the head of his firm, William L. Turnbull & Associates. Yet he continued to collaborate from time to time with Charles Moore, and played a major role in such well-known projects as Kresge College at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        While he produced buildings all over the country, as the years went on he increasingly defined himself as a Bay Area architect, concerned with finding a means to enhance a sense of connection to the northern California region. One of his most celebrated works was St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church in Sonoma County, designed in collaboration with his wife, Mary Griffin, and notable for the simplicity of its wood structure and use of natural light. For many years he operated a Napa Valley vineyard, Johnson-Turnbull, that was housed in a structure of his own design, and until the end of his life he continued to grow grapes on his property in Sonoma County.
        ''When we talk about images that motivate, mine are not abstract or metaphorical but overwhelmingly concrete and tangible,'' he wrote this spring. ''They are the sites I build on and are always distinct from one another. The shape of the ground, the view, the quality and type of tree cover, the sun, the wind all have voices that I listen to and learn from.''
        Mr. Turnbull's buildings were outwardly simple, and closely connected to the vernacular architecture of the everyday landscape. Yet they were never ordinary. He often spoke of the magic of Shaker simplicity, and of his desire to create a similar form of architectural expression appropriate to northern California in the 20th century.
        The great-grandson of George B. Post, a celebrated architect who designed the New York Stock Exchange, William L. Turnbull Jr. was born on April 1, 1935, in New York. His father, William L. Turnbull Sr., was also trained as an architect. The younger Mr. Turnbull was raised on a farm in Far Hills, N.J. He studied architecture at Princeton, and met Charles Moore in 1959, when Mr. Moore served as a teaching assistant to Louis Kahn, who was then a visiting professor. Influenced also by the work of Alvar Aalto, he traveled to Finland to see Aalto's architecture and that of others in that region.
        After graduation, he moved to San Francisco to work for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, where he worked on projects including the plan commissioned by the Kennedy Administration for the redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, and a master plan for the protection of the Big Sur coastline in California.
        It was the Big Sur project, however, that cemented his connection to California, his deep affection for the coastline and his belief in the importance of the spirit of place. After that came the call to work with Mr. Moore on Sea Ranch. Mr. Turnbull viewed the project as a way of putting into practice some of the ideas put forth in his work on Big Sur, proving that it would be possible to design new architecture for an important piece of the Pacific Coast landscape that would be respectful and not intrusive.
        Among his other best-known buildings are the Warren Zimmerman House in Virginia, a wooden structure surrounded by a trellis-like outer sheathing; a cultural center for Biloxi, Miss.; the Foothill Student Housing at the University of California at Berkeley, and, continuing his desire to connect his love of wine with architecture, the Cakebread Cellars, a winery in Napa Valley.
        As the years went on, his work seemed to become simpler, as if he were editing it down, further and further, to reach some basic inner core of meaning. Yet his buildings never had the harshness or coldness of minimalist architecture -- his devotion to wood, and to the softness of the landscape, gave all his buildings an easy, relaxed grace.
        ''There is no excess here,'' he wrote of the house he and his wife designed for their vineyard in Knights Valley. ''The wood we used to frame the structures was milled from wind-fallen trees on the property, so the houses are a rebirth of the landscape in architectural form.''
        Mr. Turnbull's first marriage, to Wendy Woods Luers, ended in divorce in 1978. He married Mary Griffin in 1985. In addition to his wife, who collaborated with him on many projects, he is survived by his parents, William and Elizabeth Turnbull of Far Hills, N.J.; two daughters, Ramsay Fay and Connor Elizabeth, both of San Francisco, and two sons, William and Andrew, both of Sausalito.
        Correction:  July 8, 1997, Tuesday
        An obituary and headline about the architect William Turnbull Jr. on June 30 erroneously included a middle initial. He did not have one.
      