
        Fred H. Mattson, a chemist at Procter & Gamble who left his mark as a researcher on cholesterol and heart disease and as one of the two accidental discoverers of the calorie-free fat substitute olestra, died on May 27 at his home in San Diego. He was 76.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Dr. Daniel Steinberg, a colleague and friend.
        Dr. Mattson, a native of Spokane, Wash., was a research chemist at Procter & Gamble from 1948 to 1979. He then began a second career as a professor of medicine and director of the lipid research clinic at the University of California at San Diego.
        His expertise lay in the chemistry of oils and the digestion and nutritive value of fats. Working with a colleague at Procter & Gamble, Dr. Robert A. Volpenhein, he sought to define how enzymes act in the digestive process, following the researchers' own curiosity and testing various compounds.
        The two researchers found a cocktail of fatty acids that enzymes left untouched, causing the mixture to pass from the body with the stool. The result was olestra, patented in 1976 and test-marketed by Procter & Gamble as the still controversial fat substitute Olean.
        After years of extensive testing, the Food and Drug Administration in 1996 proclaimed olestra safe for snack foods only. Consumer groups stress that some people may be allergic to it and can suffer cramps or diarrhea from consuming it.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Mattson was a team leader in a nationwide project that produced the first clear-cut evidence that lowering the blood-cholesterol level reduces the risk of heart attacks.
        He also produced data in 1985 showing that substituting monounsaturated fats like olive oil for saturated fats in the diet will decrease the concentration of bad cholesterol in the blood without lowering the level of good cholesterol, which protects the blood vessels.
        Dr. Mattson received a doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Southern California.
        Survivors include his wife, Gloria McElwee Mattson; two daughters, Rosemary Mattson of Kingston, Tenn., and Virginia Mattson of Cincinnati; a son, James, of Ruckersville, Va.; a stepdaughter, Cindy Hubbard of Carlsbad, Calif.; a stepson, James Mattson of Utica, N.Y.; a sister, Lu Mattson of Guerneville, Calif.; 12 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      