
        Marvin H. Pope, a retired Yale professor who was one of the world's leading authorities on Ugarit, the ancient city in Syria where excavations shed important light on the ancient Scriptures, died on Sunday at First Church of Round Hill in Greenwich, Conn. He was 80.
        He and his wife had just finished reading passages from the Bible to the congregation and returned to their pew when he collapsed.
        Mr. Pope was a professor of Near Eastern languages and civilizations from 1949 to 1986 and taught at the Yale Divinity School and in the religious studies department.
        In addition, he helped prepare the first major revision of the King James Version of the Bible, the Revised Standard Version, in the 1940's. In the 1980's he worked with others advising the National Council of Churches on the New Revised Standard Version, which removed some traditional language regarded as sexist. These are the two versions used in most Protestant churches.
        Many of Mr. Pope's contributions to the study of the Hebrew text of the Bible and to modern English translations stemmed from a day in 1928 when a farmer plowing a field in northern Syria struck what he thought was a stone. It emerged, instead, as part of the extensive remains, uncovered by archeologists over the next year, of a cosmopolitan city on the Mediterranean that had thrived in 2,000 B.C. but had been ransacked and burned in about 1200 B.C.
        Among the discoveries were Ugaritic art and clay tablets whose language was similar to biblical Hebrew, of which Mr. Pope, over the years, became a major translator. They added significant new meanings, nuances and detail to the early writings of the Old Testament and the culture of their time. The tablets were traced to a period from 1,500 B.C to 1180 B.C.
        Mr. Pope's work on the tablets resulted in his retranslations from the ancient Hebrew of the entire books of Job and the Song of Songs, and a lengthy commentary about them both, published in 1973 and 1977 by the Anchor Bible Series. Robert R. Wilson, a professor of religious studies at Yale, said those two translations were ''the brilliant works of a master scholar'' and added to the general understanding of an age and its poetry.
        Scholars said that one of the difficulties in translating the early tablets was that the words had been crammed onto the surfaces with less regard for their legibility than whether they would fit. It was often difficult to determine, as a result, which line of poetry followed which. Mr. Pope was able to arrange the lines in proper sequence and poetic form.
        Another difficulty was that the meanings of the first lines of the verses tended to echoed in the second lines but with rarer language.  Mr. Pope was one of the few able to capture the meaning of the rarer passages.
        He visited the site of the 1929 excavations, near the modern town of Latakia, north of Damascus, though most of his studies took place in Paris, where the hundreds of tablets were put on display.
        A man whose wit made him popular among generations of Yale students, he said that one of his findings was that Baal, chief god of the Ugarits, was not always chief, as scholars had thought, but had maneuvered to take over from the god El, whom he kicked further upstairs.
        Marvin Hoyle Pope was born on June 23, 1916, in Durham, N.C., the son of Charles and Bessie Cleveland Sorrell Pope. He earned a bachelor's  degree in 1938 at Duke University, where he was signed up by mistake for a course in Hebrew. He remained in the course, which led him to a master's degree in Semitic languages and literature in 1939. He received a doctorate from Yale in 1949.
        His first wife, Helen Thompson Pope, died in 1979.
        In addition to his wife, Ingrid Bloomquist Pope, he is survived by a son, Marvin Jr., and a daughter, Beverly, both of New Haven; three stepchildren, Dennis Bloomquist of Great Falls, Va., Diane B. Connelly of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and Laurel B. Shields of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Mary Gladys Hodges of Durham, and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 22, 1997, Sunday
        Because of a production error, an obituary of Marvin H. Pope yesterday omitted several survivors. Mr. Pope, an authority on ancient Scripture, is survived by his wife, Ingrid Bloomquist Pope; a son, Marvin Jr., and a daughter, Berverly, both of New Haven, Conn.; three stepchildren, Dennis Bloomquist of Great Falls, Va., Diane B. Connelly of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and Laurel B. Shields of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Mary Gladys Hodges of Durham, N.C., and eight grandchildren.
      