
        Morris Milgram, who made reality of his ideals by building and fostering interracial private housing from coast to coast, died on Sunday at the Attleboro Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 81.
        The cause was a stroke, said his son, Gene.
        Born into poverty as the youngest of six children of an immigrant Russian peddler on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Milgram grew up on Socialist principles, was expelled from City College in 1934 for opposing a reception for young Italian Fascists, battled the corrupt politics and repression of Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City and eventually devoted his life to constructing and opening housing to blacks and his fellow whites.
        ''If we don't learn to live together, soon the world is going to come apart,'' he said in a 1969 interview.
        Until he entered Attleboro in 1990, Mr. Milgram lived for many years in Greenbelt Knoll, one of his developments, in northeast Philadelphia, or in Brookside, another of his developments, in Newtown, Pa., a Philadelphia suburb.
        ''He believed in living what you preach,'' his son said yesterday. ''He hated phonies.''
        Mr. Milgram was instrumental in building or managing integrated housing for some 20,000 people, not only in the Philadelphia area but also in Boston, Cambridge, Mass., Chicago, Princeton, N.J., and Washington, and in California, Maryland, New York, Texas and Virginia.
        At first, he was a builder; but in the mid-1960's, after failing in an effort to build an interracial community in all-white Deerfield, Ill., Mr. Milgram and his associates bought existing housing and changed the rental policies to accommodate blacks.
        Among the companies he established was the Fund for an Open Society in Philadelphia, in 1975. With the civil rights leader James Farmer as a founder and with the author James A. Michener as its honorary chairman, the fund helps people who move to integrated housing to obtain low-cost mortgages.
        After he was expelled from City College at 18, Mr. Milgram was taken in by Dana College, later Newark University and now a part of Rutgers. ''President Frank Kingdon said it was an honor to be expelled from City,'' Mr. Milgram recalled.
        He received a bachelor's degree in 1939 and accepted a job in New Jersey with the Workers Defense League, a civil rights organization founded by Socialists and liberals principally to help Southern sharecroppers.
        After a decade in which he rose to national secretary of the league, Mr. Milgram received from William Smelo, then his father-in-law, yet another semiannual invitation to become a partner in his small contracting business in Philadelphia.
        This time Mr. Milgram responded, ''I will if I can build for any of my friends.'' Some of his friends were black.
        Mr. Smelo agreed, if Mr. Milgram would set about learning the construction business. After Mr. Smelo's death a few years later, Mr. Milgram, through a friend, put a $2,500 deposit on an isolated nine-acre tract in northeast Philadelphia.
        He obtained $200 each in deposits from seven white and five black families. But then, as his debts piled up, his capital dwindled after a promise of $1 million in financing fell through and hope was all but lost, he found backing from the American Friends Service Society and a Quaker builder.
        By the late 1950's, he was able to construct more than 100 homes in Greenbelt Knoll and Concord Park in Trevose, Pa., near Philadelphia. Concord Park, his first community, opened in 1954 with 139 detached homes. In Greenbelt Knoll, the homes sold originally for an average of $19,000 to $22,500.
        In 1962 President John F. Kennedy asked Angier Biddle Duke, his chief of protocol, to find a housing developer to buy white apartment communities and open them to insure that nonwhite diplomats would not be rejected. After Mr. Duke spoke to a group of Mr. Milgram's investors, they bought three communities with a total of 633 units in the Washington area and integrated them without incident.
        Mr. Milgram was the first recipient, in 1968, of the National Human Rights Award of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        In addition to his son, Gene, of Lusby, Md., and his daughter, Betty, of Silver Spring, Md., Mr. Milgram is survived by a sister, Mary Parker of Shaker Heights, Ohio.
      