
        Dr. Roger C. Bone, a lung specialist and former president of the Medical College of Ohio who spent his final year reminding his fellow physicians about their obligations toward the terminally ill, like himself, died on June 8 at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. He was 56 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was cancer that spread from the kidneys, said Dr. William McMillen, a spokesman for the medical college in Toledo.
        Dr. Bone, who was the college's fourth president, served from 1993 until last year, when the trustees placed him on medical leave. He then wrote articles for medical journals and appeared on network television, asking his peers to show greater consideration for patients dying under their care.
        As a lung specialist, Dr. Bone published some 1,000 scientific articles and wrote or edited 56 books. His ''Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine'' went through several editions; the book was updated this year..
        Last year he was a co-author of an editorial in The Journal of the American Medical Association commenting on a finding that a commonly used procedure known as pulmonary artery catheterization, which is used to monitor and treat very sick patients, offered no benefits and might kill some patients. The editorial suggested that the procedure be subjected to a controlled trial to see whether it was helpful, or that the Food and Drug Administration declare a moratorium on its use.
        Roger Bone was born in Bald Knob, Ark., and graduated from Hendrix College, now the University of Central Arkansas, in 1963. He received his medical degree from the University of Arkansas in 1967, and then taught and did research at the University of Kansas Medical Center for a number of years.
        He was vice president for medical affairs and director of pulmonary medicine at Rush-Presbyterian in Chicago and dean of Rush Medical College before he became president of the Medical College of Ohio.
        His tenure as president was stormy, and when he returned to Chicago he sued the college, contending that he had been forced out because of his illness. He settled the case for a reported $715,000.
        Dr. Bone is survived by his wife, Rosemary; two daughters, Dr. Mary Katherine Krause and Cynthia Larson, and a brother, Dr. James L. Bone.
      