
        Dr. Isadore Rossman, a physician who specialized in geriatrics and pressed the idea in the 1940's that home care was more effective than hospital care for many patients, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was lung cancer, family members said.
        ''He was one of the pioneers in the development of geriatrics in the United States and in the area of home care,'' said Dr. Robert N. Butler of Manhattan, former director of the National Institute on Aging in Bethesda, Md.
        When Dr. Rossman began his career at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, the hospital was known for the care of chronic invalids, and he documented that home care was often more effective than care in an institutional setting.
        At a time when hospitalization lasted much longer than now, he was a founder, in 1947, of a unit at Montefiore called the home care program. It provided visiting nurses, occupational therapists and social workers to patients, mainly in Manhattan and the Bronx, said his son, Dr. Paul G. Rossman, a physician in San Francisco.
        ''It was all quite revolutionary then, 50 years ago,'' he said.
        From 1955 to his death, Dr. Rossman was medical director of the Home Health Agency, the successor to the home care unit at Montefiore.
        He was also clinical professor of community medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York.
        He lectured and published widely on home health services. He wrote ''Clinical Geriatrics'' (1971, Lippincott) and ''Looking Forward: A Complete Guide to Successful Aging'' (Dutton, 1989) and edited ''The Handbook of the Biology of Aging'' (1976, Van Nostrand and Reinhold).
        He served on the New York State Moreland Commission on Nursing Homes, the Advisory Council to the National Institute of Aging and was president of the American Geriatrics Society.
        He was born in Newark, and earned a B.A. in anthropology at the University of Wisconsin in Madison and a doctorate in anatomy at the University of Chicago in 1937. He earned his M.D. at Chicago in 1942.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Sylvia, of Manhattan, and one grandson.
      