
        Hal DeWindt, a director, producer and actor who was a leader in integrating the performing arts, died on Monday at University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 63 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cancer, said Chiz Schultz, a friend.
        In his various activities, Mr. DeWindt sought to expand opportunities for black artists and technicians. He was the founder and artistic director of the American Theater of Harlem and artistic director of the Inner City Repertory Company, a Los Angeles theater that encouraged multiracial casting. He also worked with Arthur Mitchell in presenting the Dance Theater of Harlem on Broadway. Leonard Bernstein enlisted him to help bring black instrumentalists into the New York Philharmonic.
        Mr. DeWindt was born in Manhattan. His father, Clifford, was an actor with the original Lafayette Theater in Harlem. For seven years, Hal DeWindt was a production stage manager for Joseph Papp at the New York Shakespeare Festival. He was also a director with Robert Hooks's Group Theater Workshop, an acting academy that led to the creation of the Negro Ensemble Company. As an actor he appeared in ''Lost in the Stars'' at City Center.
        He also acted on television. In collaboration with Reni Santoni, he wrote ''Raisin' Hell in the Son,'' a spoof of ''A Raisin in the Sun'' that Mr. DeWindt staged Off Broadway in 1962.
        When Harry Belafonte produced ''The Angel Levine'' in 1969, he received a Ford Foundation grant to hire 15 black apprentices. As an assistant producer of the movie, Mr. DeWindt was in charge of the apprentice program, which inspired other films to follow its lead.
        Mr. DeWindt was an associate producer for ''The Landlord'' and ''They Call Me Mr. Tibbs.'' In California he worked for several film and television studios while also leading his own acting workshops.
        He is survived by his wife, Suzanne; a daughter, Tracey, of New York City; a son, Hal Drew DeWindt  of California, and a brother, Thomas, of San Diego.
      