
        Pete Pascale, a social worker, community center official and civic leader who loved East Harlem so much that he made it the focus of his life, his work, his dreams and his memories, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 and had been executive director of La Guardia Memorial House, the settlement house on East 116th Street that had been his second home as a boy and his vocation for more than 65 years.
        From his boyhood days as an Italian-American newcomer fighting Irish gangs along Third Avenue to the decades that he spent making life easier for waves of Puerto Rican and other Hispanic settlers, Mr. Pascale saw East Harlem as more than a random slice of Manhattan. It was less than a square mile, running roughly from 104th to 120th Street between Third Avenue and the East River, but it was his home, a neighborhood he found so congenial that he never lived more than a few blocks from the 121st Street tenement where he was born in 1915 or from the 116th Street town house where he lived the last decades of his life.
        In between, he became an almost indispensable link between the Italian Harlem of yore and the Barrio of today, a man who not only saw that the neighborhood's Hispanic children found the same safe haven at the settlement house that he had as a boy but who could also regale them with tales of what things were like when he and the century were young.
        The son of turn-of-the century Italian immigrants who were members of the generation that took the First Avenue trolley uptown from Mulberry Street and made East Harlem a second Little Italy, Mr. Pascale savored the old days and recalled them so vividly that he was in demand as an articulate relic of a bygone era.
        Among other things, Mr. Pascale, a former chairman of Community Board 11 who was an officer or member of virtually every civic and social-service committee in the neighborhood, was active in the East Harlem Historical Organization, served as a source for the ''I Remember Harlem'' television series and was a witness in ''You Must Remember This,'' Jeff Kisseloff's 1989 oral history of Manhattan.
        His father was a blacksmith who forged fire escapes, ornamental ironwork and farm tools until he went to work making harps at the Steinway factory on 133d Street. His mother, who had 13 children to take care of, bought cod-liver oil by the gallon.
        Michael Peter Pascale (Mike to his family, Pete to everybody else) had a prodigious memory. Seven decades after the fact, Mr. Pascale, who lost a little sister in the flu epidemic of 1918, remembered that the man who made the coffins was named Conte. He recalled playing hooky with his pal Manure (he worked in a stable), diving into the East River off 114th Street, building bonfires in the streets on election nights and taking part in stickball games so demanding that the fielders had to learn to play the tricky bounce off a trolley track, and a ball hit on top of the Second Avenue El was a home run.
        Although he eventually attended New York University, Mr. Pascale dropped out of school when he was 14 to help his father. Two years later, the course of his life was fixed. He took a part-time job at the settlement house where he had played as a child and stayed on for the next two-thirds of a century.
        The settlement house, founded in 1898 and known by various names in various locations, was eventually dedicated as a memorial to its most famous alumnus, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, a man whose protege, Vito Marcantonio, also an alumnus of the house and a legendary six-term Congressman, became Mr. Pascale's mentor, especially in the art of nurturing the poor.
        As a man who became virtually synonymous with the settlement house, Mr. Pascale supervised a variety of after-school and other programs. For all his devotion to East Harlem, he knew it could be a stultifying place for children in the summer, so much so that over the years he arranged to send more than 50,000 children to Fresh Air Fund host families and camps.
        Although he retired as executive director in 1988, Mr. Pascale remained on the board of the settlement house and continued to visit his office there until he became ill last week.
        He is survived by his wife, Rose; a son, John, of Monmouth Beach, N.J.; a daughter, Lois Evans of Manhattan; a sister, Josephine, of Miami; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        For all his work at the settlement house, his real office was in the streets that he had walked so often  that he could hardly take a step without being hailed, sometimes by middle-aged men and women he could not immediately place. No wonder. As they would remind him, when he had left his mark on their lives they had been children in need and he had been there to help.
        After his funeral at 10 this morning at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Roman Catholic Church at 447 East 115th Street, there will be a parade up First Avenue to 116th Street and west to La Guardia House.
      