
        Dr. Lowell E. Bellin, a specialist in public health who served as New York City's chief health officer under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died yesterday at his home in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was 68.
        His family said his death was caused by complications of advanced Parkinson's disease.
        ''Over the last couple of hundred years,'' he once said, ''there has evolved a particular breed of human, Homo sapiens newyorkensis, that reacts very well to stress, a kind of sociological survival of the fittest.''
        But Dr. Bellin saw no reason why he could not buttress and shield the hardiness of his fellow New Yorkers with strong legislation, firm administration and a keen eye for fraud.
        As Board of Health chairman, one of five titles he held after joining the Beame administration in 1974, he initiated legislation that banned smoking in elevators and other public spaces, required window guards on apartments housing children and barred transportation of radioactive materials through the city.
        He had earlier been an appointee of Mayor John V. Lindsay and was to become an adviser in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch. In the Beame administration, besides being the Board of Health chairman, Dr. Bellin held the titles of Health Services Administrator, Commissioner of Health, chairman of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and chairman of the Comprehensive Health Planning Agency.
        In that era of city fiscal crisis, he advocated merger and regionalization of municipal hospitals to improve the quality of care and achieve cost efficiency. His campaign to close hospitals that were deemed unneeded diminished the total to 17, from 21. He also reorganized prison health services. For the gay population, he expanded services offering treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. And the management by objective program that he initiated in the Department of Health was later adopted by all city agencies.
        From 1967 to 1971, first as director of the city's Medicaid program, then as the first deputy health commissioner in the Lindsay administration, he was assigned to fight Medicad fraud and maintain medical and health standards in the city.
        A self-described ''medical cop,'' he unmasked and confronted scores of unethical physicians, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, pharmacists and health institution officials.  ''When we're buying medical care, we're playing with human lives,'' he said. ''It's not a game of jacks on a cracked sidewalk.''
        He became an administrator in 1962 after four years in private practice in Springfield, Mass. From 1962 to 1966, he was the Commissioner of Public Health there, and in 1964, he also received a Master of Public Health degree from the Harvard University School of Public Health.
        In 1966, he returned to his native New York City, spending a year as associate medical director of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York.
        In 1972, he joined the faculty of the Columbia University School of Public Health as a professor and head of the Division of Health Administration. In 1977, when he resigned from the Beame adminstration, he returned to the university on a full-time basis and remained there until his retirement in 1994.
        In 1978, Mayor Koch appointed Dr. Bellin as an adviser to the Office of Management and Budget and chairman of the Mayor's Task Force on Emergency Medical Services. Dr. Bellin also served on the faculties of the New York University School of Public Administration and the department of preventive medicine and community health of the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
        He wrote more than 70 scientific papers and was co-author, with Lewis E. Weeks, of a standard text, ''The Challenge of Administering Health Services: Career Pathways'' (1981).
        Dr. Bellin, who was born in Flatbush, grew up mostly in Hempstead.  He graduated from Yale University with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1948 and received his medical degree in 1951 from the State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center. After completing his internship and residency and serving from 1953 to 1955 as an Air Force captain and chief of medicine at Otis Air Force Base Hospital on Cape Cod, he was named a fellow in clinical cardiology of the National Institutes of Health in 1956-57. In 1957-58, he was acting chief of medicine at Hadassah Hospital in Beersheba, Israel.
        Dr. Bellin is survived by his wife, the former Talah Werbner; a daughter, Eva Bellin of Cambridge, Mass.; two sons, Dr. Eran Bellin of Teaneck, N.J., and Aytan Bellin of Manhattan; two brothers, Dr. Eugene Lloyd Bellin of the Bronx and Dr. Evan H. Bellin of New Rochelle, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      