
        Irving Geis, an artist who illuminated the wonders of science, from the vastness of space to the intricacies of molecular structures, died on Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        For much of his career, Mr. Geis regularly contributed illustrations to Scientific American, helping readers visualize material about astronomy, astrophysics, geophysics, biochemistry and the like. He supplied the journal's first drawings of Sputniks in orbit, continental drift and DNA double helixes.
        Mr. Geis's innovations in biomolecular art gave him an international reputation. His work served as a guide for generations of researchers and science students.
        A native New Yorker, he studied architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology and received a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Pennsylvania in 1929. He was trained further in the department of fine arts, design and painting at University of South Carolina in the early 1930's before establishing himself as a freelance illustrator in New York City.
        His association with Scientific American lasted from 1948 to 1983. Before that, he contributed illustrations to Fortune and other magazines, and during World War II was an art director and chief of the graphics section of the Office of Strategic Services.
        Mr. Geis illustrated a number of textbooks on immunology, chemistry and biochemistry, subjects on which he also lectured. He won a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1987 for a project to create an artistic archive of molecular structures.
        On the lighter side, he supplied the art for ''How to Lie With Statistics'' by Darrell Huff (Norton, 1954), which told how to succeed with a souped-up graph, a well-chosen average, an insignificant difference or ''the ever-impressive'' decimal. He also illustrated ''Earth Satellites'' by Patrick Moore (Norton, 1957), which explored the subject for the International Geophysical Year.
        Most recently, Mr. Geis contributed to textbooks on biochemistry published in 1990 by John Wiley & Sons and in 1991 by Saunders College Publishing. He also exhibited his portraits of molecules at galleries around the country, most recently at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology four years ago.
        Mr. Geis is survived by his wife of 61 years, Miriam; their daughter, Sandy Geis of Manhattan, and a brother, Ralph Geisberg of La Jolla, Calif.
      