
        Alan Mixon, who discovered a passion for performing while traveling with his grandfather's circus and transformed it into a three-decade acting career, died on Saturday in New York. He was 64.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, George H. Comptis.
        Mr. Mixon, who was born in Miami, began performing with the traveling circus at the age of 5, first as a  barker and later as a tightrope walker, trapeze artist and trampolinist. After serving in the Army's 82d Airborne Division, he joined the Studio M Theater in Miami, appearing in 15 productions in the mid-1950's.
        It was there, while creating the role of Chance in the world premiere  of Tennessee Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' that Mr. Mixon was persuaded by Williams's agent to move to New York. He made his first New York appearance in 1957 in the Off Broadway premiere of Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer.'' He later appeared in lead roles Off Broadway in ''The Alchemist,'' ''The Trojan Women,'' ''Mr. and Mrs. Lyman,'' ''The Butler Did It'' and ''Desire Under the Elms.''
        Mr. Mixon first appeared on Broadway in 1963 in ''Something About a Soldier,'' by Dore Schary, later performing with Jason Robards and Anne Bancroft in ''The Devils'' and with Rita Moreno in ''The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window.''
        He played Atahualpa, the Inca leader, in the first national touring company of ''The Royal Hunt of the Sun.''
        In 1972, Mr. Mixon was part of the first cast to appear at the Circle in the Square after its move uptown, playing opposite William Hickey and Colleen Dewhurst in the first New York production of Eugene O'Neill's ''Mourning Becomes Electra'' since its premiere in 1931.
        Mr. Mixon appeared with several regional theater companies in works by Chekhov, O'Casey, Albee and others. He also performed in several television dramas in the 1950's and 60's. He appeared in television soap operas including ''The Edge of Night,'' ''One Life to Live'' and ''Love of Life.''
        More recently, he had roles in episodes of the television series ''Law and Order'' and ''The Equalizer.''
        He is survived by two sisters, Nancy Lawton of Tamarac, Fla., and Patricia Houseal of Sparr, Fla.
      