
        Johnny Copeland, one of the foremost Texas blues singers and guitarists of the 70's and 80's, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        The cause was complications during a surgical repair of a heart valve, seven months after receiving a heart transplant, said his manager, Holly Bullamore.
        Mr. Copeland was born in Louisiana and reared in Arkansas and Houston. As a teen-ager, after seeing shows by Texas blues greats like T-Bone Walker, Mr. Copeland formed his own band, the Dukes of Rhythm. He spent the next two decades playing the blues around Houston, dabbling in boxing as well. He performed with Sonny Boy Williamson and Big Mama Thornton and recorded a few albums, but received little acclaim.
        He moved to New York City in 1975 and worked in a restaurant while trying to make a career as a musician. He soon began earning a reputation in blues circles, praised for his gruff, soulful voice and his fluid, communicative guitar playing. In 1981, after 27 years of playing, he was finally signed to Rounder Records, which released the ''Copeland Special'' album he had recorded four years previously with the saxophonists Arthur Blythe and Byard Lancaster.
        He went on a 10-city tour of West Africa in 1982, which eventually resulted in one of the first albums by an American blues musician recorded in Africa, ''Bringing It All Back Home.''
        In 1986, he won a Grammy for his ''Showdown'' album with Albert Collins and Robert Cray.
        In the following years, Mr. Copeland continued recording with an eclectic array of musicians, from Randy Weston to Buckwheat Zydeco. In 1993, he was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy, a heart disease.
        He underwent seven open-heart operations in the years that followed, and his friends and fellow blues musicians helped cover his costs with a steady stream of benefit concerts. Through it all, he continued performing -- even touring a little -- inspiring his doctor, Mehmet Oz, to begin research on music as therapy.
        Mr. Copeland is survived by his wife, Sandra; three sons, Daurence Copeland and Michael Collins of Houston and Tory Edwards of Teaneck; and four daughters, Sharee Copeland of Houston, Brenda Walker of Brenham, Tex., Demetria Brown of Corpus Christi, Tex., and Shemekia Copeland of Teaneck.
      