
        Dr. Eugene Merle Shoemaker, who, with his wife, Carolyn, held a world record for the number of comets discovered, was killed yesterday  in a car accident near Alice Springs, Australia. Mrs. Shoemaker suffered broken bones and was hospitalized. Dr. Shoemaker was 69 and lived in Flagstaff, Ariz.
        Dr. Shoemaker had made a career of searching the sky for comets and asteroids, plotting their trajectories and calculating the possible effects of their impacts on planets, especially Earth. The Shoemakers have been credited together or separately with discovering 32 comets and 1,125 asteroids, said Dr. Brian G. Marsden, director of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory in Cambridge, Mass.
        ''In my opinion,'' said Dr. Tom Gehrels of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory of the University of Arizona, ''Gene was the greatest planetary astronomer living.''
        Sky and Telescope magazine reported on the Internet that Mrs. Shoemaker, 67, had suffered broken bones in the two-car collision but was in stable condition. The couple had arrived in Australia six days earlier to study impact craters caused by meteorites.
        Dr. Shoemaker, a planetary geologist employed by the United States Geological Survey from 1948 until four years ago, was best known for his conviction that comets and asteroids pose a real threat to life on Earth. He strongly supported the hypothesis of Dr. Luis Alvarez and his son, Dr. Walter Alvarez, a geologist at the University of California at Berkeley, that the impact of a comet or asteroid 65 million years ago was responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs.
        The Shoemakers' most famous discovery was made on the night of March 23, 1993, when the two of them, with a friend and fellow comet hunter, David Levy, brought an 18-inch-diameter telescope at the Palomar Observatory near San Diego to bear on the sky. The next day, when they developed the film they had exposed with the camera, Mrs. Shoemaker noticed a small streak that could not be a star or a planet. After some debate, the trio sent word of the discovery to Dr. Marsden, who quickly passed the word to other astronomers, who confirmed the sighting.
        It soon turned out that Comet Shoemaker-Levy was no ordinary visitor from the outer solar system; calculations revealed that the comet had come within 16,000 miles of Jupiter, the gravitational pull of which had ripped the comet into pieces on July 7, 1992. It was clear that all the huge fragments of Comet Shoemaker-Levy were doomed to hit Jupiter, and Dr. Shoemaker, almost alone among astronomers, forecast that the impacts would produce tremendous fireworks.
        On July 16, 1994, observatories around the world and in space turned their eyes on Jupiter. For the next four days they beheld the most spectacular planetary show in history, as each of a dozen comet fragments smashed into the planet, igniting huge fireballs. Even amateur telescope owners could easily watch the havoc, and a year later Jupiter still showed scars of the impacts.
        Dr. Shoemaker remarked that the episode gave astronomers their first chance to calculate the time and circumstances of a cometary impact on a planet.
        Dr. Shoemaker and Dr. Gehrels held the view that it was just a matter of time before Earth was hit by one of the larger asteroids and comets that drift across its orbit, with potentially devastating results. They urged astronomers to begin a systematic search for these objects to avert a catastrophe.
        Dr. Edward Teller, the physicist chiefly credited with the development of the hydrogen bomb, urged that such an impact warning system  be coupled with a missile-based defense system capable of delivering a thermonuclear device to the approaching body and blowing it away from its collision trajectory. Although asteroid and comet searches have been carried out, Dr. Teller's proposal, opposed by many scientists, has not been adopted.
        Dr. Shoemaker was born in Los Angeles on April 28, 1928. He earned a bachelor's degree at the California Institute of Technology in 1947, and a doctorate from Princeton University in 1960. He joined the Geological Survey in 1948 and served with it until his retirement in 1993.
        Dr. Shoemaker served in other jobs while he was at the Geological Survey, among them posts as a visiting professor at Caltech and a principal investigator for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Apollo Moon project (in which he investigated the composition of Moon rocks). In 1963 he was the acting director of NASA's Manned Space Science Division.
        After his retirement, he continued working in his office at the Geological Survey in Flagstaff, but became an honorary observer at the nearby Lowell Observatory.
        Among his scientific work in terrestrial geology was the investigation of craters, both impact craters caused by celestial objects and craters created by nuclear explosions.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Shoemaker is survived by his wife; two daughters, Christy Woodard and Linda Salazar, and a son, Patrick. He named asteroids after  his children and their spouses.
        As a young man, Dr. Shoemaker yearned to fly to the Moon, and when that became a real possibility he sought to join the corps of astronauts. But a medical condition barred his admission.
        ''Not going to the Moon and banging on it with my own hammer has been the biggest disappointment in life,'' he told Sky and Telescope last year. ''But then, I probably wouldn't have gone to Palomar Observatory to take some 25,000 films of the night sky with Carolyn, and we wouldn't have had the thrills of finding those funny things that go bump in the night.''
      