
        Mate Boban, the hard-line leader of the Bosnian Croats during their war with the Bosnian Muslims and a close ally of President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, died today after a stroke, according to hospital officials in Mostar. He was 57.
        Mr. Boban, a former salesman for a clothing store, was handpicked by Mr. Tudjman in 1992 to form an independent enclave in Bosnia held by the Croats. He oversaw the establishment of the enclave, armed and financed by Zagreb, and led a campaign to drive the Serbs and Muslims from the territory. The enclave called itself the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosna and designed its own flag and raised its own army. Later, it briefly declared itself the independent nation of Herzeg-Bosna.
        Mr. Boban moved swiftly to integrate the enclave into Croatia. He introduced the nationalist Croatian curriculum into the enclave's schools, announced that ''Croatian'' was the official language and decreed that the Croatian kuna was the only acceptable currency. His followers purged Muslims and Serbs from government offices and the police. The enclave remains a Croatian version of the self-styled Bosnian Serb Republic. It controls about 20 percent of Bosnian territory.
        It was under Mr. Boban's leadership that the Croatian forces in 1993 attacked their Muslim allies to expand the size of the enclave. The Muslims and Croats, until the attack, had been allied against the Serbs.
        The fighting, which left the picturesque city of Mostar a gutted shell and divided the city between Muslims and Croats, ended in 1994, when Washington brokered the setting up of the Muslim-Croat Federation.
        The fighting between the Muslims and Croats has not resumed. But the Croatian enclave remains firmly allied with Zagreb and obstructs all cooperation with the Muslim-led Bosnian Government in Sarajevo.
        The Bosnian Croats carry Croatian passports and vote in Croatian elections. Only a handful of the thousands of Serbs and Muslims expelled by Mr. Boban's police and army have been allowed to return to their homes in the enclave. And Zagreb continues to pay for the army and the police and to direct the enclave's ruling officials.
        Washington secured Mr. Boban's removal from office because of his role in the killings of Muslim civilians in towns captured by his army. Mr. Boban also set up concentration camps for Muslim civilians of the war. And it is widely believed that he ordered the killings in a central Bosnian valley in 1993 that led to the indictment of Gen. Tihomir Blaskic by the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
        Despite his reported involvement in the killing of civilians, Mr. Boban remained a hero to most Bosnian Croats. And his ties with Mr. Tudjman remained close until his death.
        Stjepan Mesic, a former ally of Mr. Tudjman, has told tribunal investigators that Mr. Tudjman informed him that Mr. Boban was carrying out the Government's policy in Bosnia. Despite his senior position, Mr. Boban was never indicted by the war crimes tribunal, although he was under investigation.
        Mr. Boban was born in the southwestern village of Sovici. He held a  degree in economics and worked at different jobs, including that of a traveling salesman, before he became involved in Bosnian politics.
        Mr. Boban moved to Croatia in 1994 and was given a director's post in the state-run oil company. He was recently replaced and planned to go into private business.
        He was divorced with children, but there was no information on how many. A funeral was planned for Wednesday in the Bosnian town of Grude, where Mr. Boban placed the seat of his administration when he established the separate Croatian enclave.
      