
        Robert Francis Byrnes, a professor emeritus of history at Indiana University who founded and directed the Russian and East European Institute, died on June 19 at the Columbia Brunswick Hospital in Ocean Isle, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Bloomington, Ind.
        He suffered a heart attack at an annual family gathering in Ocean Isle, his wife, Eleanor, said.
        Dr. Byrnes, the author of many books and scholarly articles, joined the Indiana faculty as a professor of history in 1956. While there, he helped shaped the careers of many students who entered academia, the diplomatic service or other Government service. Among them were Kremlinologists like Prof. Stephen F. Cohen, the former director of Russian studies at Princeton University, and Robert M. Gates, the former Director of Central Intelligence.
        Dr. Byrnes became the editor of the American Historical Review in 1976, when it moved to Bloomington, from Washington.
        He was chairman of the university's history department from 1958 to 1965, when he became the first director of the university's International Affairs Center.
        He founded the Russian and East European Institute in 1959, directing it until 1963, and again from 1971 to 1975, as it grew into a leading American study center.
        At the height of the cold war, Dr. Byrnes led efforts by intellectuals, most of them Westerners, to open dialogues with their counterparts behind the Iron Curtain. He served as chairman of the Inter-University Committee on Travel Grants, an organization he formed in 1955 to negotiate and administer exchanges of students and scholars between the United States and the Soviet Union.
        Robert Byrnes was born in Waterville, N.Y., and graduated from Amherst College in Massachusetts, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He was a civilian employee of the military intelligence services in World War II, after which he earned a doctorate at Harvard University in 1947. Before joining the Indiana faculty, he worked for Rutgers University, the Russian Institute at Columbia University, the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and the Office of National Estimates of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        His most recent books include ''A History of Russian and East European Studies in the United States'' (University Press of America, 1994)  and ''V. O. Kliuchevskii, Historian of Russia'' (Indiana University Press, 1995). He wrote 20 books on French, Russian, American and East European history.
        Over the years, he traveled extensively to Russia and other countries and served on the board of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. He also was a trustee of Boston College, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown University and a research fellow at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University.
        Dr. Byrnes is survived by his wife of 55 years, Eleanor F. Jewell Byrnes, and seven children: Shaun Michael of Rome; Sheila Bowles of Springfield, Mo.; Sally Neylon of St. Johnsbury, Vt; Susan Wallace of Arlingon, Va.; Robin Huntington of River Forest, Ill.; Charles Byrnes of Greensboro, N.C., and James, of Cleveland. Also surviving are four sisters and four brothers: Polly Kuhn and Dorothy Miller of Margaretville, N.Y.; Frances Morcelle of Buffalo, and Betty Eppich of Sun City Center, Fla.; Frederick Byrnes of Ridgewood, N.J.; Norman, of Boston; William, of Poland, N.Y.; and James, of Pennington, N.J., as well as 17 grandchildren.
      