
        Francois Furet, a prominent historian who challenged the popular Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution and reshaped French thinking about subsequent events, died on Saturday in a hospital in Toulouse. He was 70.
        He had received a head injury while playing tennis a few days earlier, his family said.
        Mr. Furet, who for 12 years had spent each autumn at the University of Chicago as a member of the Committee on Social Thought, was considered one of the most influential French thinkers of the postwar era, a reputation consolidated by the enormous European success of his most recent book, published in 1995, ''The History of an Illusion: An Essay on the Idea of Communism in the 20th Century.''
        But it was his lifelong fascination with the French Revolution and his many books on it that earned him a special place among historians. He won both admirers and critics with his conceptual approach to history, in which he preferred to overlook minute detail in favor of political and philosophical analysis.
        This led him first to question and then to undermine the Marxist interpretation of the revolution, which in the 1960's and 70's was still widely taught in French schools and universities. According to this view, which glorified the revolution, an attempt by a rising urban bourgeoisie to overthrow the monarchy led within four years to the Terror and the possibility of a proletarian takeover, although it was later blocked by the bourgeoisie.
        Mr. Furet's rejection of this approach in a sense reflected his own experience of the left. Like many intellectuals of his generation, he belonged to the French Communist Party in his 20's but resigned in protest after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956. ''It was the most intelligent thing I did in my life,'' he later said.
        He challenged what he called the ''revolutionary catechism,'' arguing that democratic ideals existed as early as 1781 and were based less on class struggle than on breaking up the highly centralized power of the state. In this way, he chopped away at revolutionary myths about France that had lasted into this century. ''The French Revolution is over,'' he liked to proclaim.
        ''Thanks to his talent, his strong opinions and his moral courage, he was the man who changed the revolution in the spirit of intellectuals and eventually in the spirit of all French,'' Laurent Joffrin wrote today in the left-of-center daily Liberation in an article with the headline, ''He Remade the Revolution.''
        Although frequently denounced as reactionary by the left, Mr. Furet did not embrace the ultraconservative position of French Catholics and monarchists, who came to view the revolution as a precursor of Stalinist totalitarianism. Rather, he took a firmly centrist position on both the Revolution and contemporary politics.
        ''He was responsible, more than anyone else, for the revival of liberal thinking in France,'' said Nathan Tarcov, professor of political science at the University of Chicago. ''He championed the European concept of liberalism, one that honors democracy, individual rights and a mixed economy. His own work and teaching spanned political theory, history and literature.''
        Born in Paris on March 27, 1927, into a wealthy family, Mr. Furet was a brilliant student who graduated from the Sorbonne with the highest honors and soon decided on a life of research, teaching and writing. In 1961 he entered the School of Higher Studies of Social Science and was president from 1977 to 1985. Then he joined the faculty at the University of Chicago and became the founding director of the Raymond Aron Institute in Paris.
        He was a prolific writer, publishing at least 13 major studies, notably ''The French Revolution'' (1964), ''Interpreting the French Revolution'' (1978), ''Marx and the French Revolution'' (1986), ''The Revolution 1770-1880'' (1988) and A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution (1988), of which he was co-editor with Mona Ozouf. Many of his books were published in English and were influential in British and American universities.
        In March this year, he was elected a member of the Academie Francaise, although he died before he could take his seat. His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Deborah, and two children, Antoine and Charlotte. He was buried on Monday in a private ceremony near his country home in the village of St.-Pierre-Toirac in southern France.
      