
        Col. Patrick Gerald Collins, who as a retired Marine officer advised the  service and other organizations about the tactics, training needs and battlefield doctrine of tomorrow, died last Thursday in Fairfax, Va., at the home of one of his daughters. He was 64 and lived in Hampton, N.H., near Portsmouth.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Colonel Collins fought in two wars -- in Korea, as a forward artillery observer, and, after being commissioned, in Vietnam. His decorations included the Silver Star, five Bronze Stars and three Purple Hearts.
        He retired from active duty in 1989 and at his death was a training and operations consultant at the Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory in Quantico, Va. He also advised organizations including the Institute for Defense Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and the United States Justice Department.
        The Marines valued Colonel Collins for his advice on the service's  probable battlefield role in future conflicts. When he died last week, he was praised by Gen. Charles C. Krulak, Commandant of the Marine Corps, the service's highest-ranking officer, as ''perhaps our finest small-unit tactics instructor.''
        Colonel Collins was born in Grosse Pointe, Mich., and enlisted in the Marines at 18. He was commissioned in 1958, after his combat service in Korea, and served three tours of duty in Vietnam, first leading reconnaissance and infantry platoons and companies, then serving as a battalion executive officer and a battalion commander.
        He also served in Europe, headed a special training group at Camp Lejeune, N.C., and was on the general staff at Marine Corps headquarters. He graduated from Army Ranger School and Navy Diving School before distinguishing himself instructing combat units. He served as a special assistant to three Marine Corps Commandants and was credited with helping to shape the service's special operations objectives in the 1980's.
        While in the service, Colonel Collins also became a regular college student. He graduated in business administration from Bowling Green State University in Ohio and received master's degrees in Irish studies from Catholic University in Washington and in administration from Chapman College in Orange, Calif.
        He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Mary Fallon Collins; their son, Michael S., of Hampton; three daughters, Kara Collins of Fairfax,  and Rose Sullivan and Moira Collins, both of Hampton, and four grandchildren.
      