
        Charles L. Drake, emeritus professor of earth science at Dartmouth College and a leading advocate of the  theory that it was volcanic eruptions that killed off the dinosaurs, died on Tuesday at his home in Norwich, Vt.  He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, said  his wife, Martha.
        In a protracted, often rancorous debate, Professor Drake stood opposed to the school of thought that attributed the disappearance of the dinosaurs to the impact of a large meteorite 65 million years ago. In this theory, the meteorite kicked up a worldwide pall of dust that blotted out the sun and killed off many plants and animals.
        With Charles B. Officer, another Dartmouth geologist, Professor Drake theorized that instead it was huge volcanic eruptions, spewing lava over 200,000 square miles of what is now India and disrupting the atmosphere with chlorine, sulfur dioxide and carbon dioxide, that led to the end of the dinosaurs' 160-million-year reign on earth.
        But Professor Drake's prominence in his profession rested on far more than his role in the debate over the dinosaurs. His leadership among geologists, marked by an ability to bring together colleagues from various nations and disciplines, brought him to high positions in scientific organizations.
        He served from 1990 to 1992 as a member of President George Bush's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology and was also a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; president of the 18th International Geological Congress, held in Washington in 1993; a president of the Geological Society of America and of the American Geophysical Union, and a member of committees of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Research Council and the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere.
        At both Columbia University and Dartmouth, Dr. Drake became chairman of his department. While at Columbia, where he spent 16 years before joining the Dartmouth faculty in 1969, he conducted pioneering research on the geologic evolution of the continental margin of the Eastern United States.
        Since 1970, he had conducted research at the reservoir at Lake Powell in Utah on the ecological effects of man's efforts to impound the otherwise wild Colorado River and manage water resources in an arid area.
        The dinosaur dispute between the volcano theorists and the meteorite-impact theorists raged through the late 1970's and the 1980's, with the  meteorite side led by the Nobel laureate physicist Luis W. Alvarez; his son, Walter, a geologist, and their colleagues at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Then, in 1994, a new theory combining the conflicting ideas was proposed: antipodal volcanism. In this theory, a speeding rock from outer space, exploding on impact with the force of millions of hydrogen bombs, would have blasted enormous shock waves through the earth. These shock waves would have coalesced at the antipode, the side of the planet opposite the impact crater, to fracture the ground, heat it and bring on  volcanic outpourings.
        In the new theory, then, both the meteorite and its volcanic repercussions in the opposite hemisphere would have contributed to the decline of the dinosaurs. But Dr. Drake never embraced that notion, his colleague Dr. Officer said yesterday.
        Charles Lum Drake was born on July 13, 1924, in Ridgewood, N.J. He received a bachelor's degree in geologic engineering from Princeton in 1948 and a doctorate in geology from Columbia in 1958. He began his teaching career in 1953 as a lecturer at Columbia, where he became a professor and, in 1967, chairman of the department of geology.
        In 1969, he went to Dartmouth as a professor of geology. There he served at various times as chairman of the department, dean of graduate studies and associate dean of the faculty for sciences. He retired in 1994.
        He is survived by his wife of 46 years, the former Martha Churchill; three daughters, Mary Layton, also  of Norwich; Pace Mehling of Corinth, Vt., and Susannah Culhane of Manhattan; a brother, Thayer, of Avon, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      