
        Joseph Edwin Finley, a labor lawyer and union counsel who also wrote about labor and published a novel, died Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from a severe injury suffered in a fall at home, said his wife, Dr. Joanne Otte Finley.
        Mr. Finley was the general counsel of the 140,000-member Office and Professional Employees International Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O., which he served for more than four decades, until the early 1990's. Afterward, he kept up his practice in labor law in Baltimore. He also was the union's historian.
        The union represents professional, technical and clerical employees in both the private and public sectors in the United States and Canada. He related its story in ''White Collar Union'' (Octagon, 1975).
        He also wrote ''The Corrupt Kingdom'' (Simon & Schuster, 1973), an investigative account of the United Mine Workers of America at a particularly difficult juncture in the union's history.
        Mr. Finley was the author of a well-received and partly autobiographical novel titled ''Missouri Blue'' (Putnam, 1976), about the plight of workers in the Great Depression.
        A native of Portageville, Mo., he graduated in journalism from the University of Missouri in 1942. He served with the United States Army in Europe in World War II.
        After graduating from Yale Law School in 1951, he practiced law in Washington for 10 years. From 1961 to 1971 he was a law partner in Cleveland with Howard M. Metzenbaum, later a United States Senator from Ohio.
        Mr. Finley successfully argued union cases up to the Supreme Court, including the right of white-collar workers to organize and bargain collectively. Besides being general counsel for the office employees union, he worked in the same capacity for the International Brotherhood of Pottery and Allied Workers in Ohio from 1961 to 1970.
        In the 1980's, he took to writing about racing under the nom de plume William L. Scott, including a book about handicapping, ''How Will Your Horse Run Today?'' (Amicus, 1986), and ''Total Victory at the Track: The Promise and the Performance'' (Amicus, 1988). Both remain in print.
        Besides his wife of 47 years, he is survived by a daughter, Lucinda Finley of Buffalo; three sons, Scott, of Bedford Mass., William, of Fair Haven, N.J., and Ethan, of Princeton, N.J.; and three sisters, June Wilkinson of Atlanta, Betty Henderson of Hot Springs Valley, Ark., and Pat Porter of San Antonio.
      