
        Gen. Saw Maung, an unassuming Burmese officer who organized a bloody military coup in 1988 and served as the titular ruler while Myanmar toyed with democracy and then brutally repressed it, died on Thursday at his residence in the capital, Yangon. He was 68.
        A Government statement said the cause was a heart attack.
        General Saw Maung had been out of the public eye in Myanmar, as Burma is now known, since his ouster in 1992 after he began to refer to himself as the reincarnation of an ancient Burmese king.
        During almost four years as chairman of a 19-member junta, the State Law and Order Restoration Council, General Saw Maung presided over a campaign to push the socialist country toward a measure of capitalism. In 1990 his Government brought Myanmar to the verge of the most breathtaking transformation of all: to democracy.
        Fulfilling a promise made by the general soon after taking power, the military Government allowed free elections in May 1990. But when the democratic opposition, led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, won 80 percent of the vote, the junta ignored the results and continued to rule, placing Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest and cracking down on dissent. For her continued peaceful resistance to the generals, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
        But for all General Saw Maung's authority and the brutality with which he exercised it, few believed that he was the ultimate power in his country. The man who has called the shots in Myanmar, most observers agree, is Gen. Ne Win, General Saw Maung's longtime mentor.
        Saw Maung was a native of the former royal capital of Mandalay whose formal education is believed to have ended in the fourth grade. His route to prominence began in when he joined the army in 1949, at age 21. This was a year after Burma gained independent from the British.
        He was assigned to the elite Fourth Burma Rifles, where he developed a strong devotion to General Ne Win, a charismatic commander who led the military coup in 1962 that overthrew Burma's first elected Government.
        Five years later General Saw Maung was a battalion commander, and in the 1970's he led a light infantry division in fighting Communist rebels and ethnic minority insurgents in remote frontier areas.
        Proving his loyalty to General Ne Win during an attempted military coup in 1976, he was one of a number of offficers who survived the purge that followed and were rewarded by rapid advancement.
        By 1985 he was Deputy Defense Minister, and when General Ne Win's brand of state socialism left the country in economic ruin and touched off violent protests in 1987, General Saw Maung was in the fore-front of the suppression of the demonstrations.
        After General Ne Win stepped down under popular pressure in July 1988, the appointment of his hand-picked successor, Gen. Sein Lwin, caused a surge in protests. General Saw Maung, who became Defense Minister, established his hart-line credentials by ordering troops into Rangoon, as the capital was then known, to help the security police battle the demonstrators.
        General Sein Lwin was forced to resign after 17 bloody days, but Gen. Saw Maung retained his ministry under the next leader, Maung Maung, a Ne Win civilian protege. Mr. Maung Maung failed to win the confidence of the protestors, and demonstrations continued.
        Finally General Ne Win had enough. According to widespread reports at the time, he summoned General Saw Maung to his home one night and ordered him to organize a coup the next day. General Saw Maung did just that, and was installed as head of a new military junta on Sept. 18. More than 1,000 civilians were killed before the protesters were finally driven from the streets.
        The end of General Saw Maung's rule came after he began acting erratically. When he began speaking of himself as the reincarnation of an 11th-century Burmese king, he became an embarrassment. He resigned in April 1992 and was replaced by his deputy, Gen. Than Shwe, another Ne Win protege, who continues to serve as chairman of the junta.
        General Saw Maung, whose surviors include his wife and three children, has since dropped almost completely out of public sight. So did his mentor, General Ne Win, who evertheless, in his mid-80's, is still believed by many to be pulling the strings of Government.
      