
        Barry Lewis Zaretsky, a professor at Brooklyn Law School and a scholar in the fields of bankruptcy and commercial law, died on Monday, apparently in an explosion that destroyed his vacation home in Canaan, N.Y. He was 47 years old.
        Police in Claverack, N.Y., said the explosion was under investigation but was thought to have been caused by a propane gas leak in either a clothes dryer or a water heater in the basement of the home.
        Mr. Zaretsky was the author of many articles on bankruptcy and commercial law and was a frequent lecturer on those subjects. He was a member of the Board of Editors of Collier on Bankruptcy and the co-author of the Commercial Law and Practice Guide and the Commercial Law Report.
        In 1991, Mr. Zaretsky was appointed by the Federal Bankruptcy Court to examine whether the $1.25 billion leveraged buyout of Revco, the drug store chain, was an improper transfer of the company's capital to banks, investment bankers, lawyers and shareholders in what is known in legal circles as fraudulent conveyance.
        His 277-page report stated that those groups all profited by pulling so much capital out of the company that it was technically insolvent the day the deal closed. No proof of actual fraudulent intent was found in the examination, however. Even so, the report made a number of recommendations of actions that the company could take, including suing investment bankers, lawyers and accountants to force them to return much of the almost $80 million in fees they were paid for the deal.
        Mr. Zaretsky was counsel to the law firm of Arnold & Porter, a fellow of the American College of Bankruptcy, a director of the American Bankruptcy Institute and a director of the American Bankruptcy Board of Certification.
        Mr. Zaretsky graduated from New York University and the University of Michigan Law School.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan Glatman, and three children, Arielle, Joseph and Tamar, as well as by his parents, Harold and Edythe Zaretsky, and a sister, Sandy Kanin.
      