
        Harry A. McQuillen 3d, the chief operating officer of the K-III Communications Corporation, died over the weekend at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 51 years old.
        The cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head, according to the office of Connecticut's chief medical examiner. Dr. Thomas F. Gilchrist, a staff member in the examiner's office who did the autopsy, said yesterday that the death was a suicide.
        Mr. McQuillen was found on Monday by a family friend who had opened the house to let in a cleaning person. Mr. McQuillen's wife of 27 years, Barbara, who was in Cape Cod at the time, said that she had spoken on the telephone to her husband on Sunday night and that he had given no indications of being despondent.
        Mr. McQuillen managed K-III's 63 consumer magazines, including New York, Soap Opera Digest, Soap Opera Weekly, Seventeen, Modern Bride, American Baby, Horticulture, Crafts and Sail.
        He also supervised Channel One, a daily news program broadcast to eight million students in 12,000 schools; Weekly Reader, a publication distributed to 6.8 million elementary school students, and Films for the Humanities, the nation's largest distributor of educational videos to  colleges and high schools.
        The bearlike Mr. McQuillen, 6 feet 3 inches tall, loved golf, and was described by colleagues as thoughtful and slow to anger. He ''could have had his own table every day at '21' and the Four Seasons, but he was the kind of guy who preferred down-to-earth, unassuming restaurants,'' said Janice Grossman, president of advertising and marketing at K-III's consumer magazine division. She worked with Mr. McQuillen for seven years.
        Caroline Miller, the editor in chief of New York magazine, was named to that position by Mr. McQuillen, who had previously hired her as editor in chief of Seventeen magazine. She said: ''He was very supportive. But if there was a fight to be fought, he was game.''
        Mr. McQuillen's battles were not only with his editors but also reportedly from time to time with Henry R. Kravis, who runs Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, which controls K-III. Former colleagues said that Mr. McQuillen often acted as a buffer for his magazine editors, shielding them from Kohlberg Kravis.
        But last Aug. 29, it was Mr. McQuillen and William F. Reilly, chairman and chief executive of K-III, who dismissed Kurt Andersen, who was the editor of New York. The dismissal was attributed to the wishes of Mr. Kravis, who was said to be unhappy with some articles that had appeared in the magazine.
        K-III, however, insisted that its problems with Mr. Andersen were caused by the magazine's loss of some longtime readers and an insufficient rise in circulation.
        Mr. Reilly declined to comment on Mr. McQuillen's death. But in a statement, he said, ''Harry's death is an immeasurable loss to me personally,'' adding, ''We have worked together for more than a decade.''
        David Adler, a spokesman for K-III, said he knew of no corporate problems that could have caused Mr. McQuillen to take his life. ''The businesses reporting to him were doing extremely well,'' Mr. Adler said.
        In 1996, K-III Communications had sales of $1.37 billion; the divisions that Mr. McQuillen was responsible for accounted for $684 million of that total. K-III's cash flow, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, were up 34 percent over 1995, to $134 million.
        K-III's stock, from a high for the year of $13.125 in March, has declined to the $11 range. Yesterday it was down 37.5 cents, closing at $11.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
        A magna cum laude graduate of Villanova University in 1968, Mr. McQuillen began his publishing career in the college texbook division of Prentice Hall, where he worked from 1969 to 1976. For the next two years, he was director of marketing for the college textbook division of McGraw-Hill, and then, from 1978 to 1983, became a senior manager for the CBS Educational and Publishing division. In 1983 he became the division's president.
        In 1987 Mr. McQuillen became president of Macmillan's publishing division, where he worked with Mr. Reilly. Although Mr. McQuillen had no magazine publishing experience, Mr. Reilly brought him to K-III as president and chief executive of the company's Magazine Corporation in 1991.
        Promoted to president of the K-III Media Group in 1995, Mr. McQuillen became an executive vice president in 1996 and chief operating officer in 1997. Mr. Reilly will take on Mr. McQuillen's responsibilities.
        Mr. McQuillen is survived by his wife; a son, Harry 4th, of Berkeley, Calif.; his mother, Anne, of Rosemont, Pa., and two sisters, Mary DeCaro of Fort Washington, Pa., and Nancy Lubas of Malvern, Pa.
      