
        Leo Gruliow, who turned a chance Depression-era job as a Moscow journalist into a cold war career translating Soviet periodicals into English, died on July 13 in a hospice near his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 84.
        For someone whose education did not go beyond high school, Mr. Gruliow made quite an academic career for himself.
        A self-taught scholar, he lectured widely on Soviet affairs at American and foreign universities. His weekly compendium of translations, now known as The Current Digest of the Post-Soviet Press, was long the only source that international scholars had for developments behind the Iron Curtain.
        And although he wrote only one book, ''Moscow,'' published by Time-Life in 1977, he translated a number of works by Soviet authors.
        Among them are ''The Cancer Ward,'' by Aleksander I. Solzhenitsyn (Dial, 1968), and ''A Taste of Liberty'' by Bulat Okudzhava (Ardis, 1986).
        Along the way, Mr. Gruliow, a short, animated man who wielded his pipe like a baton, traveled widely, befriended many journalists, scholars and government officials and witnessed much of Soviet history at first hand.
        A native of Bayonne, N.J., he began his journalism career while he was in high school.
        Mr. Gruliow was working on a New York City political weekly that folded during the Depression, leaving him without a job. Then he heard of an opening on an English-language paper that the Soviet Government had started in Moscow to appeal to tourists.
        Although his parents had both been born in St. Petersburg, Mr. Gruliow did not know Russian. But over the next four years he learned the language so well that when he returned to New York in 1939 he was able to find work as a translator.
        After working for a radio news bureau in Washington he returned to the Soviet Union, this time as the field representative of Russian War Relief, the offical American effort to provide food, clothing and medical supplies to the war-ravaged ally.
        Although the wartime American relief efforts were played down by the Soviet Government during the cold war, on his later trips to the Soviet Union, Mr. Gruliow, who had been decorated by the Kremlin in 1945, often ran into people who had personally benefited from the vital aid and who expressed their gratitude.
        Once, he later recalled, upon learning of Mr. Gruliow's role in the relief effort, his unusally reserved official translator grabbed him and kissed him.
        After establishing The Current Digest of the Soviet Press and moving it to Columbus in 1969, Mr. Gruliow served for three years as chief of The Christian Science Monitor's bureau in Moscow, where he found a battered typewriter he had left in the city three decades earlier.
        He is survived by his wife, Agnes;  a son, Frank, of Oakland, Calif.; a daughter, Rebecca, of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Vera Galanter of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Lucille Rosen of Manhattan.
      