
        Dr. William J. Welch, who practiced internal medicine and cardiology for many years in New York City  and who was the former host of a radio advice program, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        While Dr. Welch remained up to date with medical developments and was an associate of leading doctors in New York City, he took an old-fashioned approach to his practice, even going on middle-of-the-night house calls.
        From 1955 to 1981, when he retired, he was in private practice in New York City, after five years in Princeton, N.J. Among his patients were the clarinetist Benny Goodman, the painter Ben Shahn, the physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer and Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
        Besides maintaining his practice, Dr. Welch, who was affiliated with Doctors Hospital, was an associate professor of clinical medicine at New York University Medical Center. In the 1960's, he was medical director of the New York Cardiac Center in Yonkers, and from 1967 to 1969, he was president of the New York Heart Association.
        In the 1950's and 60's, Dr. Welch wrote ''Dr. Welch Says,'' a syndicated newspaper column on medical issues, and conducted ''Ask Dr. Welch,'' a call-in radio program.
        In an autobiography, ''What Happened in Between: A Doctor's Story'' (Braziller, 1972), he wrote of the enduring importance of house calls in an era when many physicians would contend that ''instrumental medicine can only be instituted in a setting that corresponds to modern technology.''
        He said: ''Even a doctor who is a wizard cannot always be sure, from the message he receives, how sick the patient is. He only knows that there is trouble at the other end of the phone, a human being in distress. If it is not crystal clear that the difficulty can be resolved or deferred -- both from the human as well as the economic consideration -- it can best be settled by a house call.''
        In later life, Dr. Welch helped create the Emily Davie and Joseph S. Kornfeld Foundation, which focuses on medicine and human dignity, particularly at the end of life. Dr. Welch was also instrumental in the founding of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia.
        William Welch was born on Sept. 12, 1911, in Eau Claire, Wis., where he grew up. He graduated from Yale College in 1933 and from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University in 1942.
        He is survived by his wife, Louise Michel Welch, his daughter, Anne-Louise Jacquemin, and his stepdaughter, Martha Welch de Llosa, all of Manhattan; his stepson, Dr. Richard S. Crampton of Charlottesville, Va., and six grandchildren.
      