
        Jess Meeker, a composer, accompanist and musical director at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, died on Wednesday at Toledo Hospital in Toledo, Ohio. Mr. Meeker was 85 and lived in Toledo.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, according to a spokeswoman for the festival, in Becket, Mass.
        Mr. Meeker was a gentle presence at the festival long after his retirement, embodying for many the history and tranquillity of the farm where Ted Shawn founded Jacob's Pillow early in the 1930's. The Pillow was created as a home for the Men Dancers company founded by Shawn, a pioneer of American modern dance who believed that men could and should dance professionally.
        Mr. Meeker worked with the Men Dancers from 1933 to 1940, composing music for many of Shawn's dances and accompanying classes, rehearsals and performances on tour throughout the United States and in Havana and London. Writing in The New York Times, Jack Anderson called Mr. Meeker's score for ''Kinetic Molpai,'' a signature work by Shawn, ''as assertive as the choreography.''
        Mr. Meeker is believed to have retired as the Pillow musical director in the late 1980's, but no one is sure because he was such a fixture at the festival. ''Just look at the place, just look at the place,'' he once said, spreading his arms wide, when asked why he kept coming back.
        Mr. Meeker accompanied silent films in his hometown of Arkansas City, Kan., before Shawn discovered him in 1933 when he played for a church pageant featuring a former member of Denishawn, a company founded by Shawn and his wife, Ruth St. Denis. He hired Mr. Meeker when his accompanist, a woman, suggested a male musician might be more appropriate for an all-male dance company.
        Mr. Meeker continued his association with the Pillow after the company disbanded in 1940, accompanying classes and performances at the festival. After serving with the Army in World War II, he found jobs as a rehearsal pianist for Ballet Theater and several Broadway shows, working closely with Jerome Robbins on the music for his Mack Sennett ballet in ''High Button Shoes.''
        Mr. Meeker also toured South America with a modern dance duo, accompanied Maurice Chevalier in several nightclub appearances and, from 1950 into the 1980's, served as the musical director for Steffi Nossen's Dance in Education Fund in Scarsdale, N.Y. His last New York appearance was in 1991, when he performed his score for Shawn's ''Kinetic Molpai'' in performances at the Joyce Theater by the Jacob's Pillow Men Dancers.
        During the 1980's, Mr. Meeker reconstructed many of the scores for Shawn's dances and recorded them in synchronization with 50-year-old silent dance films. He also appeared in the award-winning documentary ''The Men Who Danced.''
        Mr. Meeker's wife, Peg, died in 1988. He is survived by a sister, Mildred Miller of Mount Dora, Fla.
      