
        William Rufus Scott, a pioneer publisher of modern children's books remarkable for their striking illustrations and educational content, died on Tuesday at his home in North Bennington, Vt. He was 86.
        He formed a small publishing house, W. R. Scott, in 1938 and began to publish what he saw as literary fare for children. His initial catalogue listed reprints, essays, poetry and some art books meant for the very young.
        Mr. Scott was joined in his undertaking by his wife, Ethel McCullough Scott, and her brother, John C. McCullough. His first book editor turned out to be the legendary Margaret Wise Brown, whose first children's story, ''The Noisy Book,'' was published by W. R. Scott in 1939.
        The Scotts had small children at the time, giving them a link to the Bureau of Educational Experiments in Manhattan -- later Bank Street College -- where Mrs. Brown was a budding author and member of the Writers' Laboratory. The Scotts became convinced that they needed her help if they were to produce  books of significance to the youngest readers.
        Another early find for the W. R. Scott list was Edith Thacher Hurd, who collaborated with Mrs. Brown on several books under the joint pseudonym of Juniper Sage. Mrs. Hurd, herself a formidable author of some 70 children's books, died in January. Her first solo book, ''Hurry Hurry,'' about a hurrier, was published by W. R. Scott in 1938.
        In later years Mr. Scott published such titles as ''Where Does the Butterfly Go When It Rains?'' (1961), by May McClintock, who wrote under the name May Garelick.
        Born in Montclair, N.J., Mr. Scott graduated from Yale University in 1931. He worked first for some small publishers where he developed skill as a typographer and learned to seek out innovative illustrations that would hold a child's interest.
        Altogether he published some 400 books before he sold the company to Addison-Wesley about 25 years ago. Most of them went out of print, but some were reissued in recent years by HarperCollins and by the Linnet imprint of Shoe String Press.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Trenor, of Grants Path, Ore., and Paul, of North Bennington; a daughter, Virginia Sterling of Guilford, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      