
        William Reynolds, a deft and meticulous Hollywood film editor who won Academy Awards for ''The Sound of Music'' and ''The Sting,'' died on July 16 in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Reynolds was a versatile editor, his work ranging from lilting musicals to underworld films punctuated by gunfire. He worked in the film industry for six decades as editor or co-editor on more than 70 movies.
        But in 1966, when he was presented with his Academy Award for ''The Sound of Music,'' the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical starring Julie Andrews, he told the audience modestly, ''There's a secret to winning an Oscar for film editing: When in doubt, cut to Julie Andrews.'' The movie won a total of five Oscars.
        ''The Sting,'' the 1973 film starring Robert Redford and Paul Newman as Chicago con men who try to get revenge on a New Yorker who had one of their buddies murdered, won seven Oscars. Mr. Reynolds took special pains over the film's rat-a-tat-tat finale.
        He was also nominated for Academy Awards for five other films: ''Fanny'' (1961), ''The Sand Pebbles'' (1966), ''Hello, Dolly!'' (1969), ''The Godfather'' (1972) -- he shared that nomination with Peter Zinner -- and ''The Turning Point'' (1977).
        Despite the honors he received, Mr. Reynolds liked his artistry to go undetected. ''I'd like to think that when people see films, they're not aware of editing,'' he once said in an interview. ''The only time I watch the editing of a film is when I'm bored.''
        But, at preview screenings of his movies, he studied audiences' reactions. Jim Langlois, a film editor and former assistant of his, recalled, ''He liked to sit where he could hear where people laugh or don't laugh and cry or don't cry.''
        William Henry Reynolds was born in Elmira, N.Y., and received a bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1933. In the Depression year of 1934 he worked for Fox Film Corporation as a laborer, becoming an assistant editor at Paramount in 1935, the year he was credited for work on ''The Farmer Takes a Wife.'' He was an editor at Paramount from 1937 to 1942.
        Mr. Reynolds served in the military from 1942 to 1946, working on Army training films. He was an editor at 20th Century Fox from 1947 to 1962 and then did freelance work. His later credits include ''Taking Care of Business'' (1990).
        He was also the co-producer, with Richard Widmark, of the 1957 film ''Time Limit,'' a drama about the Korean War starring Mr. Widmark.
      