
        Rachel Gillett Fruchter, the Brooklyn biochemist who died in a bicycle accident on Saturday, was known for her research in gynecological cancer, as well as her commitment to women's health issues. She was 57 and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn.
        Dr. Fruchter was killed when a van struck her bicycle as she swerved, apparently to avoid some runners near the Kate Wollman skating rink. She was pronounced dead at Kings County Hospital Center.
        She was an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn. Her research focused on gynecological cancer and the epidemiology of cancer.
        Her investigations were reported in numerous scientific papers and led, among other things, to changes in the characterization of AIDS in women. She maintained a tumor registry at the SUNY Health Science Center.
        She also was a founder of Health Right, an independent women's organization in New York. She was a contributor to ''Our Bodies, Our Selves: A Book By and For Women'' (Simon & Schuster). Compiled and updated by the Boston Women's Health Collective, the 25th anniversary edition was published last year.
        Rachel Gillett was born in London and grew up wherever her father's profession as a botanist would take him. She graduated in biochemistry from Oxford University and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rockefeller University in 1966 and a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1973.
        She joined the obstetrics-gynecology faculty at the SUNY center the following year. Her research established that immigrant women without access to adequate health care suffer higher rates of cervical cancer. She also investigated how the human papilloma virus related to AIDS.
        With her husband, Norman, she was also active in community affairs and in educational matters. One of her principal concerns was the health care provided for women from the Caribbean islands and other immigrant populations throughout central Brooklyn.
        Besides her husband, Dr. Fruchter is survived by a son, Lev, also of Brooklyn; a daughter, Chenda Fruchter of San Francisco; her mother, Gertrude Gillett of London, and three brothers, Simon, who lives  in Pakistan, and Matthew and Peter, both of London.
      