
        Alf Engen, who won 16 United States skiing titles, half in ski jumping, and who helped design more than 30 American ski areas, died Sunday in Cottonwood Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 88.
        The best-known ski areas that he helped design were Sun Valley, Idaho; Alta, Utah, and Jackson Hole, Wyo. He also helped develop areas in Nevada, Montana and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Much of his design work was done as a technical adviser to the National Forest Service.
        Mr. Engen came to the United States from Norway in 1929. He was already an outstanding competitor in ski jumping, in which the skier races down a long slide at 60 miles an hour or faster and then flies into space, only a few feet above a steep hill.
        At first, he jumped in professional competitions and won the 1931 world pro championship. In 1937, the United States Ski Association determined that he had never competed for money and reinstated his status as an amateur, and he immediately won the national championship.
        Between 1931 and 1947, he won eight national titles in ski jumping and eight in combined competition that included other skiing disciplines. In 1940 and 1941, his victories in combined competitions included the national four-way championship, which involved jumping, cross-country, downhill and slalom. His 1946 amateur jumping title came on borrowed skis because his skis had broken.
        He set several world records for jumping distance and reached 281 feet in practice. He made the 1940 Olympic team in jumping and in downhill-slalom combined, but those Olympics were canceled because of World War II. In 1948, he coached the United States Olympic jumpers. That year, he founded the Alf Engen Ski School in Alta and ran it until he retired in 1989.
        As a youth in Norway, he excelled in skiing, soccer, hockey and speed skating. His first skis were homemade, and his first ski wax came from melted phonograph records.
        He won more than 500 sports trophies, many of which are destined for a planned Alf Engen Ski Museum in Park City, Utah. He appeared in eight full-length skiing movies. He was elected to the Helms Sports Hall of Fame in 1954 and the United States Skiing Hall of Fame in 1959.
        Mr. Engen is survived by his wife of 59 years, Evelyn; two sons, Alan and John, both of Salt Lake City, and three grandsons.
      