
        Rear Adm. Albert Girard Mumma, a naval engineer who commanded the Navy Department's Bureau of Ships in the 1950's as its nuclear power and missile program went full throttle, died on Tuesday at the Waverly Heights nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 91.
        Admiral Mumma, who retired from the Navy in 1959, lived in Lake Wales, Fla., and was a former resident of Short Hills, N.J.
        He was attached to the bureau after World War II as head of machinery design and deputy coordinator of nuclear matters, an assignment that made him responsible for the early development of nuclear-powered submarines. He left that post in 1948 and was succeeded by Hyman G. Rickover, then a captain.
        The Nautilus, the Navy's first nuclear-propelled submarine, was launched in 1954, and Admiral Mumma became chief of the Bureau of Ships the next year. Thus he remained the immediate uniformed superior of Admiral Rickover, who was his assistant in charge of the Navy's nuclear program while also serving as chief of the naval reactor branch of the Atomic Energy Commission.
        While Admiral Mumma headed the bureau, the Navy built ever larger and swifter nuclear submarines like the Triton, the first Polaris missile-firing submarine, and a surface fleet that included a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.
        After leaving the Navy, Admiral Mumma joined what is now Worthington Industries as vice president for engineering. He became president and chief operating officer and was elected chairman of the board in 1967 before retiring in 1971.
        That year President Richard M. Nixon appointed him chairman of the American Shipbuilding Commission, which studied and sent recommendations to the President and Congress in 1972 on how to improve construction for the United States Merchant Marine.
        Albert Girard Mumma was born in Findlay, Ohio, and graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1926. He first served at sea as chief engineer aboard the destroyer Clark.
        At the outbreak of World War II he was in charge of propeller research, design and production for the Navy.  He then joined a top secret mission for the Manhattan Project, the wartime effort to design and build the first atomic bomb. His mission was to determine what progress Germany was making in developing nuclear weapons. He later served with a naval technical intelligence unit in Europe.
        Admiral Mumma was a past president of the American Society of Naval Engineers and of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. He was a member of the American Academy of Sciences and its research council.
        He is survived by his wife of 70 years, Carmen Braley Mumma; three sons, Albert G. Jr., of Merry Point, Va., John S., of Succasunna, N.J., and David B., of Elwyn, Pa.; a sister, Sarah (Sally) Harral of Moorestown, N.J., six grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      