
        Blair Birdsall, a civil engineer whose expertise in suspension bridges and other cable systems stretched from the Golden Gate in California to the East River to one of the world's engineering marvels, now being built in Denmark, died on June 25 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 90 and lived in Allendale, N.J.
        He spent most of his working life with the engineering firms John A. Roebling Sons, a world leader in cable engineering, and Steinman Boynton Gronquist & Birdsall. At his death, he was partner emeritus in Steinman and continued to advise the firm on the construction of the Great Belt East Bridge in Denmark, part of a $5.8 billion bridge-and-tunnel project.
        Authorized by Parliament in 1987, the Great Belt will provide the first fixed link between eastern and western Denmark. The bridge alone will have a free span of 5,359 feet -- longer than the Golden Gate's by more than 1,100 feet, and with taller pylons.
        Mr. Birdsall was a young engineer when he worked on the Golden Gate Bridge in the late 1930's. Thereafter, he plied his trade at many of the country's best-known river crossings, including the Chesapeake Bay Bridge, and the Roebling-designed Brooklyn Bridge along with her siblings across the East River. At those bridges, his role lay in repair and maintenance of their latticework of cables, strong yet vulnerable to unforeseen forces of corrosion and vibration.
        When the office of the Manhattan Borough President proclaimed May 24, 1984, Blair Birdsall Day, it awarded him the honorific of ''Mr. Bridges.''
        Yet his expertise ranged over all sorts of structural engineering. He helped design countless ski lifts, chairlifts, freight tramways and suspended roofs, including a pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair.
        Mr. Birdsall was born in Newark and graduated from Princeton University with a degree in civil engineering in 1929. He worked for the Port of New York Authority and the city of Newark. He was teaching mathematics in 1934 when he joined the Roebling engineering staff.
        He left Roebling for Steinman in 1965 and became managing partner in 1976. He was the recipient of honors including Roebling Awards from the American Society of Civil Engineers and, for a lifetime of achievement, from the International Bridge Conference of 1989.
        Mr. Birdsall is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Figueroa Birdsall; a daughter, Elizabeth J. Evans of Hobe Sound, Fla.; two sons, William B., of Chatham, N.J., and James B., of Bethlehem, Pa.; a stepdaughter, Maria Celis-Wirth of Manhattan; two stepsons, Jose R. Celis of Allendale, and Dr. Rodolfo Celis of La Grange, Ga.; 16 grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      