
        Edwin Diamond, an author, teacher and journalist whose career spanned more than 45 years and ranged from covering the space age to critiquing the news media, died yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Adelina.
        Mr. Diamond was born in Chicago, the son of a sportswriter, and was a reporter, writer and senior editor at Newsweek from 1958 to 1970, where he covered the space program. He later worked at The New York Daily News, Adweek magazine, New York magazine, The Washington Journalism Review and in television in Washington. Among his professional awards was the Page One Award, which he received from the Newspaper Guilds of Chicago, Washington and New York.
        Mr. Diamond received bachelor's and graduate degreesfrom the University of Chicago. He wrote 11 books, including ''The Rise and Fall of the Space Age'' (Doubleday, 1964), ''The Spot: The Rise of Political Advertising on Television'' (M.I.T. Press, 1984), and ''Behind The Times: Inside the New New York Times'' (Villard Books, 1993). His  articles appeared in many publications, including Harper's, The New York Times Magazine, Esquire and The Nation. In his later years he worked as a contributing editor for the World Wide Web site, Politicsnow.com.
        Mr. Diamond was also a professor at the Department of Journalism at New York University from 1984 to 1997. He was a fellow, lecturer and professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1970 until 1985, where he was also head of the news study group and a frequent contributor to The New York Times.
        Mr. Diamond served in the infantry in Europe in World War II and as a lieutenant in military intelligence in the Army during the Korean War. He received numerous decorations, including a Bronze Star.
        Besides his wife of 49 years, Mr. Diamond is survived by three daughters, Louise Diamond, Ellen Waldman and Franna Diamond; his sister, Natalie Peiser, and six grandchildren.
      