
        Roberta Gorsuch Burke, one of America's best known military wives who was affectionately known as ''the first lady of the United States Navy,'' died on Friday at her home in Fairfax, Va. She was 98.
        Mrs. Burke was the widow of Adm. Arleigh A. Burke, who was Chief of Naval Operations from 1955 to 1961 and led the Navy into the nuclear age. Admiral Burke died last year.
        Throughout her husband's career, Mrs. Burke made a reputation of her own as a maverick in a role bound by tradition. Even in the latter days of the Burkes' duty in the capital, as the wife of one of the military's senior officers, she threw open the doors of Admiral's House, a large Victorian structure in Washington that is now the official residence of the Vice President, and she befriended many junior officers' wives.
        Although she and her husband had lived modestly before his appointment, Mrs. Burke handled her new duties as one of the Navy's most visible hostesses with aplomb and entertained flawlessly at numerous receptions and seated dinners. She also accompanied her husband on his many trips abroad. Long after her military life ended, she received callers every year, including Japanese diplomats, who visited annually, and Queen Frederika of Greece, who almost always ended state visits to the United States by spending time with the Burkes.
        Until her death, Mrs. Burke continued to receive hundreds of letters from Navy spouses she had helped and from foreign diplomats.
        During the 32 years she spent living in various ports, Mrs. Burke acquired the ability to turn chaos into order, wives of junior officers recalled this week. She developed her own system of house-hunting, for example, bearing in mind that her husband wanted to spend his shore leave with her but also wanted to be within sight of his ship. She would get word where the ship was going to dock and then start walking, looking for suitable quarters.
        ''Usually I found something,'' she recalled. ''Although now and then Arleigh just had to put up with being out of sight of his big canoe.''
        During the war years, she worked with the Red Cross and was also active in helping other Navy wives  cope with their husbands' long absences.
        ''I think she was awe-inspiring to new Navy wives,'' said Mary Rushton of Norfolk, Va., whose husband, Cmdr. Richard T. Rushton, once acted as a liaison officer for Admiral Burke. ''She made them feel immediately comfortable, from the youngest to the oldest. It was like, 'I'm a Navy wife, you're a Navy wife, let's sit down and talk.' ''
        Although Mrs. Burke liked to remain in the background as much as she could, she was a steady influence on her husband, diplomatically cooling off his rare outbursts and tempering almost every occasion with her quiet wit.
        Once, the admiral went home raging after he was accosted at a cocktail party by a captain who had had too much to drink and who had ripped into one of the admiral's pet projects. The next morning he ordered a subordinate to get the captain on the phone, and while the call was being placed, he reached into his pocket for his pipe. Along with the pipe, out came a note in his wife's neat handwriting. It read: ''You're in no mood to make a sound decision.'' He canceled the call.
        Roberta Gorsuch was born in Lawrence, Kan., on Jan. 3, 1899, and moved with her family to Maryland during World War I. She worked for the Treasury Department in Washington and met her future husband when she substituted for her older sister on a blind date. He was then in his first year at the United States Naval Academy and courted her for the next four years. They were married in Annapolis, Md., on June 7, 1923, the day he graduated from the  academy and was commissioned an ensign. There were no children.
        Last fall, Mrs. Burke was honored with a ''Salute to a Sailor's Wife'' dinner at the Navy Memorial. Although 35 years had passed since Mrs. Burke's days in Admiral's House, Margaret Dalton, wife of John H. Dalton, Secretary of the Navy, described her as ''still first lady of the Navy.''
        Her role as a senior Navy wife and her 72-year partnership with the admiral were noted by President Clinton in his eulogy at the admiral's funeral.
        ''You have blessed America with your service and set an example for not only Navy wives today and to come, but for all Americans,'' Mr. Clinton said.
        Mrs. Burke asked that the epitaph on her tombstone, which will adjoin her husband's at the Naval Academy Cemetery in Annapolis, read simply: ''A sailor's wife.''
      