
        Tony Thomas, a Hollywood chronicler and biographer, died on Tuesday  at Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank in Los Angeles. He was 69 and lived in Burbank.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Jon Burlingame, a family friend.
        Mr. Thomas was the author of some 30 books, including the Citadel Press series ''The Films of . . .'' In these books, many of which remain in print, he traced the careers of such stars as Marlon Brando, Olivia de  Havilland, Henry Fonda, Gene Kelly and James Stewart.
        Among his other books are ''The Great Adventure Films'' (1976), ''Howard Hughes In Hollywood'' (1985), ''The West that Never Was'' (1989), ''Joel McCrea: Riding the High County'' (1991), ''The Best of Universal'' (1991), ''Film Score: The Art and Craft of Movie Music'' (1991) and ''Music for the Movies'' (1994).
        He also wrote ''The Busby Berkeley Book'' (1973), ''The Hollywood Musical: The Saga of Songwriter Harry Warren'' (1975), ''The Films of 20th-Century Fox'' (1979) and ''The Films of Ronald Reagan''  (1980).
        Mr. Thomas was born near Portsmouth, England, the son of a bandmaster in the Royal Marines. The family moved to Canada when he was 18, and he became an announcer for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and then a writer and producer for CBS Radio.
        He was a writer and host for the CBS television series ''As Time Goes By.'' All the while he indulged his boyhood fascination with Hollywood and the movie business, and in 1966 he moved to Los Angeles to make it his career.
        He became an expert on film music and produced dozens of albums of notable scores by top Hollywood composers, including Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Alfred Newman and Miklos Rozsa. He also recorded the music they had composed for the concert hall.
        He was a founder of the Society for the Preservation of Film Music. His ''Music for the Movies,'' first published in 1973 and newly revised, represented a historian's appraisal of that field.
        He was a writer for the Academy Awards shows in 1979 and 1984 and a segment producer for the Oscars beginning in the late 1970's. He wrote and produced documentaries about films and their music for PBS, the Discovery Channel and American Movie Classics on cable and had a hand in an ABC special, ''The 50 Years of Warner Brothers,'' and the syndicated series ''That's Hollywood.''
        Mr. Thomas is survived by a son, David, of Burbank; a daughter, Andrea Thomas of Oakland, Calif.; two brothers, Graham, of Moorpark, Calif., and Ross, of Slough, England; a sister, Christine Smith of Morton-in-Marsh, England, and his companion, Lorna Grenadier of Burbank.
      