
        Mary Jane Brown, a tap dancer who taught at the Juilliard School, died on July 12 at the Gilchrist Center for Hospice Care in Baltimore. She was 80 and lived in Baltimore.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Carol Hess-Vait.
        The daughter of a vaudeville house manager, Ms. Brown picked up tap techniques from dancers performing at her parents' theater in Syracuse, among them Eleanor Powell and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson. She performed as a child with her family's act, began a solo act at 15 and later performed with her brother, Bob Brown, in a tap act. When he retired, she went on the road with a solo act that included roller-skate and jump-rope tapping and imitations of tap stars.
        Ms. Brown was featured in stage shows with the bands of Tommy Dorsey, Gene Krupa, Bob Crosby and others, impersonating well-known tap dancers of the day. She replaced Ann Miller in the George White ''Scandals of 1940'' on Broadway and on the road, and performed in top New York clubs of the time. She also appeared frequently on early television shows, including Milton Berle's ''Texaco Star Theater.''
        After study in ballet with Anderson-Ivantzova and Spanish dance with Angel Cansino, Ms. Brown taught tap to children at her own school in the Bronx for 25 years. She trained dancers, actors, singers and Broadway ''gypsies'' over 23 years at the International School of Dance and Ballet Arts at Carnegie Hall. From 1989 to 1991, she taught in the drama and dance divisions at Juilliard. Ms. Brown also trained dance teachers for over 30 years at conferences and teachers' organizations. After moving to Baltimore in 1991, she taught at the Peabody Preparatory Program until this year.
        Her students included Charles Repole, the musical comedy director; Elizabeth Keen, the choreographer, and the actors Andre Braugher and Kelly McGillis.
        Ms. Brown's husband, Howard Hess, died in 1994. She is survived by  her daughter and two granddaughters, all of Baltimore.
      