
        Kay Farrell, a stylish society woman who made golf the focus of a glamorous life as wife, mother, hostess, committee woman and volunteer, died July 12 at her home in the Village of Golf, Fla. She was 86.
        She was the widow of Johnny Farrell, the debonair 1928 United States Open champion who presided for 38 years as the chief pro at the storied Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, N.J. They were the golden couple of golf, and a striking study in contrasts. He was John Joseph Farrell, the darkly handsome son of poor Irish immigrants. She was Catherine Marie Theresa Alice Hush, the beautiful blond daughter of a wealthy engineer.
        He had picked up the skills that made him a champion while working as a caddie in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She had learned the game as a privileged member of the Innis Arden Golf Club in Old Greenwich, Conn.
        When they met in 1930, at an exhibition at Innis Arden, he was one of the most celebrated athletes in America, the man who had won an unprecedented eight tournaments in 1927, then followed up by beating the legendary Bobby Jones by a single stroke in a thrilling 36-hole playoff at the 1928 Open.
        She was a teen-ager selling programs. He, a decade older and already renowned for his unerring approach shots, hit the shot of his life. It rolled to a stop at her feet, just as he had intended after spotting her in the crowd.
        She, coyly, did not tell him until later that she had actually spotted him first. Several months earlier, at the theater in New York with one of her beaus, she had noticed that the man seated on the other side of her was the man in the Lucky Strike ad in her Playbill, the same Mr. Farrell (a nonsmoker, as it happened, who, in the celebrity custom of the day, had no compunction about endorsing a product he never used).
        Struck by the coincidence, she nudged her date, an engaging enough Yale student named Robert F. Wagner Jr., a United States Senator's son whose days as her beau were numbered.
        For all the disparity in their ages and backgrounds, their romance, at least, started off even. If she had thrown over a future New York City mayor for him, he had abandoned King Kong's beloved Fay Wray for her.
        By the time they were married in 1931 (and embarked on a golfing wedding trip to Honolulu with his exhibition partner, Gene Sarazen, and his wife), they had both become movie stars of sorts. As the accounts of their nuptials noted, he was the instructor and his 20-year-old bride was his pupil in a series of ''talking pictures,'' on ''How to Play Golf.''
        As a married couple they entered a close-knit magic circle of celebrity. Their playmates included the likes of Jack Dempsey and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. George Gershwin, who cost Mr. Farrell a Canadian Open by feeding him seafood that made him ill, played ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' for Mrs. Farrell at parties and gave her a pin. For her 21st birthday, Babe Ruth gave her a jade necklace.
        Though never in her husband's league on the links, she was an accomplished amateur who helped the Baltusrol's women's team win the 1948 New Jersey championship. But on the dance floors of the Depression they were on an equal footing, she playing Ginger Rogers to his Fred Astaire. And if he was acclaimed as the best-dressed golfer of his era, she was, if anything, better turned out than he, a woman who awed her children's friends with the elegance of her daytime at-home wear.
        After a heady whirl, they settled down, he abandoning touring to become the Baltusrol pro and she to have children, five in 10 years.
        Not that the glamour ended. During the years he became famous for giving lessons to such determined duffers as the Duke of Windsor and Richard Nixon, she presided over gala dinner parties and had his famous pupils to tea.
        In an era when women were expected to be defined by their husbands, she had no qualms about devoting her life to her family and to golf, which were sometimes hard to tell apart.
        Two of her sons, Jimmy, now of Lake Worth, Fla., and Billy, of Riverside, Conn., became club pros. Her other son, John Jr. of Manhattan, founded the National Putting Association, and her daughters, Cathy Rock of Westfield, N.J., and Margaret Maguire of the Village of Golf, near Palm Beach, were so involved with the game that in 1967 the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association declared the entire Farrell clan the golf family of the year.
        Mr. Farrell, who ended his career as a pro at the Country Club of Florida, died in 1988 at 87. For all his pre-eminence, Mrs. Farrell, who is also survived by a sister, Mary Moriarty of Westfield, was never in his shadow.
        He is recalled as a retiring sort, she as a beautiful, vivacious woman, forever the life of a party that lasted almost 60 years.
      