
        Robert E. Pike, who grew up in northern Vermont enchanted by the tales of the imposing, spiked-booted loggers who swaggered down the Connecticut River and camped on his uncle's farm, tousling his hair and feeding him sugar cookies from the cook tent before pushing off for the pulp mills downstream, died on Thursday, satisfied that he had taken precautions against being remembered as the pre-eminent authority on the history of logging in New England.
        Not that Mr. Pike, who was 92 and lived with his daughter, Helen-Chantal Pike, in Eatontown, N.J., had anything to be ashamed of. His 1967 book, ''Tall Trees and Tough Men,'' is widely regarded as the definitive history of the New England logging industry.
        It's just that the book, an often-quoted, meticulously researched scholarly tome, sprang from the mind of a man of the heart.
        And Mr. Pike's heart, captured as a child, belonged to an earlier book, ''Spiked Boots,'' a self-published 1956 compilation of the legends and lore handed down for generations by those who lived and worked in the woods and along the rivers of New England. If his sentimental side was eclipsed by his scholarly bent, Mr. Pike had only himself, or maybe his Uncle Harley, to blame.
        Born in Hamden, Conn., and brought up by his uncle in Upper Waterford, Vt., Mr. Pike seemed destined to follow the Pike family path of dropping out of school at 14 and heading for the fields, at least until his uncle decided to let him get a little more education.
        It is a comment on the power of the New England farming tradition that Mr. Pike, a descendant of Pikes who had been farming their Revolutionary War land grants for longer than a century, was the first member of his family to graduate from high school. It is a comment on Mr. Pike that he did it at 16.
        Indeed, the way Mr. Pike took to education makes you wonder what would have happened if they'd let Pikes stay in school all along. He got so wound up, particularly by his high school study of Latin, Greek and French, that by the time he finished he had a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth, a master's from the University of Minnesota and a doctorate from Harvard -- and had mastered Latin, Greek, French, Spanish, German, Russian and Italian.
        Mr. Pike, who had a way of pursuing his interests to their logical conclusions, later taught at a succession of schools and colleges, served in France with the Army Signal Corps in World War II and afterward as the chief translator for the Munich War Crimes branch.
        He became so attached to the academic life that he didn't much care where he taught. After the Army he took a job teaching English at a New Jersey junior college that held its classes at the Long Branch High School.
        By the time he retired in 1970, the little college had moved to the palatial Parsons estate in West Long Branch and grown into Monmouth University, complete with a language department Mr. Pike had created and run like a miniature United Nations.
        Insisting on hiring native speakers, he recruited Cuban refugees and German, Italian and White Russian immigrants. There were no natives of France, however: French was taught by Mr. Pike.
        A romantic so imbued with the New England work ethic that he taught by day and tapped away on his manual typewriter at night and on weekends, he produced several books, among them two collections of memorable tombstone epitaphs, an interest he traced to his first childhood sight of a pair of spiked boots nailed to a tree, a stark reminder that a drowned logger lay buried nearby.
        The books, ''Granite Laughter and Marble Tears'' (1938) and ''Laughter and Tears'' (1971), stressed cryptic epitaphs, like the ones for a man named Haine (''Haine Hain't'') and a gossipy woman (''Talked to Death by Her Friends'').
        But for his own epitaph, Mr. Pike grew garrulous. Before his third wife, Helene, a former French model, died in 1986, he composed epitaphs for both of them. Hers ran 60 words. His was a bit shorter, but made the point. The epitaph, which makes no mention of his scholarly masterpiece, ''Tall Trees,'' identifies him as the author of ''the famous north country classic, 'Spiked Boots.' ''
        Actually, Mr. Pike, who is also survived by a son from a previous marriage, the Rev. Harl Pike of Sierra Vista, Ariz., and four grandchildren, need not have gone to all that trouble.
        When Mr. Pike, who had hawked copies of the book out of the trunk of his car in the 1950's, returned to New England in 1986 to promote a re-issue, he discovered that ''Spiked Boots,'' had indeed become a north country classic.
        ''People were literally coming out of the woods clutching worn copies of the original,'' his daughter said, recalling that people whose ancestors had passed the stories down by word of mouth said they considered the book such a rare treasure they were listing it in their wills.
      