
        Jan Sejna, a former major general in the Czechoslovak Army who defected to the United States in 1968 and provided valuable intelligence on Communist military activities, died at his home in Bethesda, Md., on Saturday. He was 70.
        General Sejna fled to the United States after the liberal Communist movement ousted his Stalinist patron, Antonin Novotny, as President of Czechoslovakia during the ''Prague Spring,'' that country's short-lived liberalization movement. The general and his son Jan came to the United States by way of Hungary, Yugoslavia and Italy.
        The general's flight heightened tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union and caused deep embarrassment in the Soviet bloc. A Deputy Defense Minister of Czechoslovakia, Col. Gen. Vladimir Janko, committed suicide after he was implicated in a failed military plot, supposedly led by General Sejna, to keep Mr. Novotny in power and prevent the ascendancy of Alexander Dubcek, leader of the liberal Communist forces.
        The United States refused demands to extradite General Sejna, who was accused by the anti-Novotny Communists of misappropriating some $20,000 worth of state-owned alfalfa and clover seeds for sale on the black market.
        In August 1968, the liberal movement was put down by Soviet-led troops and tanks. The same month, General Sejna turned up briefly in New York City, where he denied in an interview that he had plotted against Mr. Dubcek. On the contrary, the general said, he fled Czechoslovakia after trying in vain to warn Mr. Dubcek of impending Soviet military intervention.
        Born in the Czech hamlet of Libotyn, the future general joined the Communist Party shortly after World War II and was drafted into the army in 1950. His rise was meteoric -- from lieutenant to general in 17 years -- especially for a man whose formal education had ended at age 14 and who had failed the entrance exam for the military academy.
        ''He got to be a general through his friends,'' a Czech military official who was not one of the general's admirers said after the defection.
        General Sejna had been a member of the Communist Party's general staff and the Czech National Assembly as well as the Defense Ministry. He had often conferred with officials of the Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact nations, accumulating knowledge that made him a valuable information source for American intelligence agencies.
        He was a counterintelligence analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency from 1969 to 1976 and later worked as a consultant to the Defense Intelligence Agency.
        Some of what he told Congressional committees and his handlers was startling, although much of it could not be verified. For instance, he reportedly told Western intelligence agencies in the early 1980's that the Russians had trained terrorist groups like the Baader-Meinhof gang in West Germany and the Red Brigades in Italy.
        Questioned about those reports, American intelligence officials said there was evidence of indirect links between the Russians and terrorist groups, but little evidence to show direct Soviet involvement in international terrorism.
        General Sejna asserted that the Soviet Union had collaborated in North Korea's seizure of the American intelligence ship Pueblo in January 1968. And last September, he told the House National Security Subcommittee on Military Personnel that American prisoners in the Korean War had been subject to medical experiments to hone interrogation techniques.
        The general said that after the experiments carried out by Russians and Czechs in a North Korean hospital, the Americans were executed.
        The general's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Marie, and his sons, Jan and Gregory, both of Bethesda.
      