
        Bruce Harley Yenawine, who had recently left the director's office of a Connecticut museum to take a similar position in Massachusetts, died Monday at the University of Kentucky Medical Center of injuries received in a car accident in Kentucky. A resident of Ivoryton, Conn., he was 47.
        Dr. Yenawine was vacationing with his wife and son when the car he was driving collided head-on with another vehicle on Aug. 8 on U.S. Highway 62 near Midway, Ky. His wife, Neisja, and son, Philip, were treated at the hospital in Lexington and discharged.
        Dr. Yenawine had 20 years of experience as a chief administrator working with college art galleries and schools of art. Until his recent resignation, he was the director of the Connecticut River Museum in Essex.
        He was preparing to take the director's post on Sept. 2 at Plimoth Plantation, the living museum in Plymouth, Mass. Like Colonial Williamsburg, Plimoth re-creates the life of early English settlers, in this case the original Pilgrim village, with a replica of the Mayflower and people at work in period costume.
        Dr. Yenawine received a bachelor's degree in English from the University of Louisville, as well as a master's degree in higher education. He received a master's in history and a Ph.D. in American history at Syracuse University.
        He directed the Louisville School of Art from 1977 to 1982 and served as president of the Swain School of Design in New Bedford, Mass., from then until 1988. At each place he was responsible for expanding programs, upgrading the plant and providing a financial and administrative overhaul.
        He served as dean of the Corcoran School of Art in Washington in the late 1980's during the turmoil over the cancellation of the Robert Mapplethorpe exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery. The show, which included homoerotic images, was partially financed by the National Endowment for the Arts, and the uproar led to a Congressional edict against Federal grants to art perceived as obscene.
        He joined the Connecticut River Museum in 1993, and during his four-year tenure, membership increased by 20 percent and volunteerism rose to a record high. One notable show he staged last year was ''Extraordinary Yankees: Business and Professional Women of the Connecticut River Valley,'' profiling 28 women, some of them dressmakers, business executives and scholars.
        Besides his wife and son, Dr. Yenawine is survived by a daughter, Heather; and four brothers, Martin, Gardner, Philip and Peter.
      