
        James Starbuck, a ballet dancer who became a pioneering television choreographer and also worked on Broadway and in film musicals, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said J. D. Kessler, who took care of Mr. Starbuck during his illness.
        Mr. Starbuck began working in television in 1947, later choreographing for ''Your Show of Shows'' and numerous variety shows. He won Emmy Awards as the director and choreographer of ''Arthur Murray's Dance Party'' and as the director of ''The Andy Williams Show.'' He also directed and choreographed television appearances of stars like Lucille Ball, Lena Horne, Ethel Merman and Bob Hope, Dinah Shore, Ginger Rogers and Maurice Chevalier. He also choreographed cabaret acts for Chevalier, Ms. Horne and other stars.
        For ''Your Show of Shows,'' he introduced the concept of a group of dancers who appeared weekly in specially choreographed dance numbers. He danced with Imogene Coca, who was Sid Caesar's co-star on the show, in popular satires on ballet classics. The comedy numbers created such an interest in ballet among viewers that he was able to invite ballerinas like Alicia Markova, Mia Slavenska and Maria Tallchief to perform on the show. And television, he said, benefited from dance.
        ''Dance has been responsible to a great extent for the increasing fluidity of the TV camera and has given directors and cameramen a greater scope for their imagination than was ever conceived a few years ago,'' Mr. Starbuck wrote in 1951 in an article in The New York Times.
        Born in Albuquerque, N.M., Mr. Starbuck trained in ballet with many of the noted teachers of the time, including Adolph Bolm, Edward Caton, Vera Nemtchinova and Anatole Oboukhov. He also studied modern dance with Martha Graham. He began his career as a juvenile actor and dancer with a concert group.
        Mr. Starbuck was a principal dancer at the San Francisco Opera Ballet from 1935 to 1938, leaving to join the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, where he danced from 1938 to 1944. He is believed to have been the first American man to dance with the company. Mr. Starbuck's heart clearly remained with ballet, despite his long years afterward choreographing shows, for he left instructions that on his death that those wishing to make donations should give to any ballet company of their choice.
        After dancing on Broadway in ''Song of Norway,'' whose choral numbers and dances were staged by George Balanchine, Mr. Starbuck danced and acted in several other musicals and choreographed the hit 1954 Broadway musical ''Fanny.'' He staged shows from 1945 to 1948 at Lake Tamiment, a Poconos resort in Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Starbuck then went on to television but left in 1954, when ''Your Show of Shows'' ended. He went to Hollywood that year to choreograph ''The Court Jester,'' starring Danny Kaye. He also staged the dances for the 1958 Broadway musical ''Oh Captain!,'' including a show-stopping number for Alexandra Danilova, and was the choreographer and assistant producer of the musical ''A Thurber Carnival'' in 1960.
        He returned to television to choreograph ''Sing Along with Mitch'' from 1961 to 1964. While working in television, he also created ballets for the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. In later years, he coordinated and choreographed the annual Orange Bowl Parade.
        No immediate family members survive.
      