
        Misael Pastrana Borrero, the last of Colombia's National Front Presidents, who governed as part of a coalition between the two main political parties, died at a clinic here today. He was 74.
        A Conservative whose sons took up his political mantle, Mr. Pastrana was President from 1970 to 1974.
        The National Front was Colombia's attempt to end intense fighting between Liberals and Conservatives in which an estimated 200,000 people died. From its inception in 1958, the Front was supposed to run for 16 years. But critics contended that it eliminated opposition parties, and thus fueled corruption.
        Mr. Pastrana became President after a close election campaign against Gen. Gustavo Rojas-Pinilla, a former dictator.
        As polling places closed on election night with the general's party show ing unexpected strength, the Government stopped reporting election returns. In the morning, it announced that Mr. Pastrana was the winner.
        Allegations that the National Front had stolen the election gave rise to the April 19 Movement, or M-19, a guerrilla group named for the election day that waged armed attacks on the Government for the next two decades.
        Mr. Pastrana's term is generally known for protecting the rights of large landowners and encouraging housing construction as an engine of growth. A law passed in 1973 barred the Government from expropriating land without the owner's consent. His administration also gave financial incentives to commercial agriculture, which created jobs and greatly improved farm wages.
        After his term ended, Mr. Pastrana retained a keen interest in politics, grooming his sons, Andres and Juan Carlos, for public life.
        Juan Carlos Pastrana ran a newspaper, La Prensa, that was a severe critic of President Ernesto Samper before it closed this year.
        Andres Pastrana ran for President against Mr. Samper in 1994 and narrowly lost. Andres Pastrana is now one of 14 candidates for presidential elections next year.
        In addition to his sons, Mr. Pastrana is survived by his wife, Maria Cristina Arango.
      