
        John Cowdery Kendrew, a British molecular biochemist and 1962 Nobel laureate who decoded part of the mystery of life by revealing the detailed structure of a key protein, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 80.
        Dr. Kendrew started his quest at the end of World War II when he and a cohort of determined biochemists at Cambridge University set out to decipher the structure of proteins.
        The equipment on hand was barely adequate, but persistence prevailed when he and a colleague, Max Perutz, identified the properties of globular protein molecules.
        Dr. Kendrew unraveled the vast complexities of myoglobin, the red protein in muscles, while Dr. Perutz did the same for hemoglobin, the substance in red blood cells that absorbs oxygen and releases it in the tissues. Their work took science a giant step toward an understanding of how proteins do their vital work.
        It helped establish the new field of molecular biology at Cambridge University's Cavendish Laboratory. For their feats, Dr. Kendrew and Dr. Perutz shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962.
        They had used X-ray diffraction to outline the spiral structure of the globular proteins that enable humans and animals to breathe. In introducing atoms of heavy metals, like gold or mercury, into a molecule, they were able to trace its structure by means of irradiation.
        Chemical means were used to determine the parts of the molecule to which the metal had attached itself. Electronic computers quickened the drudgery of translating the results of their studies into precise measurements for building models of the proteins.
        Protein molecules in their myriad varieties form the basic constituent of all living matter, from bacteria to plants to higher animals. Dr. Perutz and Dr. Kendrew, who started out as his assistant, were honored for being the first to work out the structure of two of the most important.
        John Kendrew, a mild-mannered bachelor, was born in Oxford, the son of a noted climatologist, Wilfrid George Kendrew. He was educated at Oxford and Cambridge, where he received a Ph.D. in physics in 1947. During World War II he worked for the Ministry of Aircraft Production as a junior scientific officer in radar technology and advised the Allied air command in Southeast Asia.
        In Asia he met the crystallographer J. D. Bernal, who suggested to him the imminent convergence of physics and biology. On a side trip to California, he encountered a fellow future Nobel laureate, the physical chemist Linus Pauling, whose protein work inspired his own.
        He then returned as a doctoral candidate to Cambridge and the Cavendish Laboratory, where Dr. Perutz, a former student of Dr. Bernal's, directed the medical research council in the fledgling molecular biology section.
        Dr. Perutz, who had researched hemoglobin for years, used a procedure suggested by Dr. Bernal by which a heavy-metal atom bonded with a protein to serve as a marker.
        Dr. Kendrew was promoted from the assistant's job when Dr. Perutz assigned him to puzzle out the structure of the simpler of the two most interesting proteins, myoglobin, which stores oxygen in muscle tissue and gives red meat its color.
        Little was known about the substance except that it was a protein, and his task was to identify the position of each atom in the myoglobin molecule and to plot the molecule's shape.
        He did well enough to come in first. Dr. Kendrew formulated its three-dimensional structure before Dr. Perutz cornered his prey, hemoglobin.
        ''In a real sense proteins are the 'works' of living cells,'' Dr. Kendrew wrote in Scientific American in 1961. ''Almost all chemical reactions that take place in cells are catalyzed by enzymes, and all known enzymes are proteins.''
        Dr. Kendrew continued to work on the structure of myoglobin after receiving the Nobel Prize but became drawn into administrative and government advisory functions. The department that he and Dr. Perutz created is now the Laboratory for Molecular Biology, and he acted as its chairman until 1974.
        The next year he established the European Molecular Biology Laboratory at Heidelberg and served as its director until 1982. He also founded The Journal of Molecular Biology and edited it until 1987, when he retired as president of St. John's College, Oxford.
        He was the author of ''The Thread of Life: An Introduction to Molecular Biology'' (Harvard University Press, 1966). The recipient of many honors, he was knighted and awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1963.
      