
        Brandon Tartikoff, one of the most successful showmen in the history of network television, who brought to NBC such hit series as ''Hill Street Blues,'' ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Miami Vice'' and ''Cheers,'' died yesterday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles, he was 48.
        The cause was complications from  treatment for Hodgkin's disease, friends of Mr. Tartikoff said.
        In recent years the head of his own entertainment production company, Mr. Tartikoff had, in his long career, been an executive with NBC, Paramount Pictures and New World Entertainment.
        But it was as the president of NBC Entertainment, a job he took in 1980 and held for more than a decade, that he made his mark on the television industry and the viewing public. No other television programmer was so closely identified with a network's success as Mr. Tartikoff was in the 1980's. NBC, which had been widely regarded as the laughing stock of the television industry when he began, ended the decade with the longest laugh in network history: a streak of dominance never equaled, as NBC finished first in the Nielsen ratings 68 weeks in a row.
        Dick Ebersol, a longtime friend and colleague at NBC said, ''At the last great moment when network television was a communal experience for America, Brandon was the one in charge of delivering the programs that created that experience.''
        His death was a blow to NBC where he had not worked since 1991, because the legacy of his programs remains at the core of the network's success. For example, it was Mr. Tartikoff who, looking for a possible successor to Johnny Carson at the ''Tonight'' show, signed a deal with a then little-known comedian named Jerry Seinfeld that led to the most successful show on NBC over the last half decade.
        In addition, Mr. Ebersol pointed out that the NBC Thursday night lineup of shows, which has set a standard for television success and excellence for almost 15 years, was put in place by Mr. Tartikoff.
        Mr. Tartikoff was known for taking a highly personal approach to programming, often offering producers his own ideas for shows that later turned into hits. Among the most memorable was a meeting with a young producer when Mr. Tartikoff scribbled the phrase ''MTV cops'' on a napkin. The producer, Anthony Yerkovich, turned that notion into ''Miami Vice,'' one of NBC's powerhouse programs of the 80's.
        Mr. Ebersol, now the president of NBC Sports, and the executive who first hired Mr. Tartikoff at NBC in 1977, remembered Mr. Tartikoff's unrelenting dedication to his job, how he took the ''programming squares'' that laid out every show on every network everywhere he went, working on them every chance he got even when stopped at traffic lights.
        But Mr. Ebersol said: ''He never took himself too seriously. He always won with grace and with style and always always with humor.''
        Indeed, Mr. Tartikoff was proud of his own ability to construct and deliver a joke. Before he joined NBC as an executive he tried to join its late-night comedy show, ''Saturday Night Live'' as a writer. And after he became celebrated for putting on the programs that brought NBC to the prime-time firmament, he made it all the way back to ''Saturday Night Live'' as a host, the only time a network executive was ever chosen for that role.
        Mr. Tartikoff seemed destined to program a network from a young age. At 10 he began telling his parents that he thought the lead actor in his favorite show, ''Dennis the Menace'' was miscast. Later, at Yale, in a writing seminar given by the author Robert Penn Warren, he suggested that a D. H. Lawrence story needed a better plot. Mr. Warren told him, ''You should probably think of a career in television.''
        He followed the advice, joining WLS-TV, an ABC-owned station in Chicago. There he made a name for himself for his creative promotions of the station's trove of dusty old movies, at one point calling a batch of ape movies ''Gorilla My Dreams Week.'' The movies scored huge ratings.
        That brought him to the attention of the network. He worked a year at ABC before joining NBC in 1977. At the time, the network was in the midst of a total collapse. The president of the network, Fred Silverman, a legendary programmer himself, installed Mr. Tartikoff, as head of entertainment in 1980. He was only 31 years old, the youngest person ever chosen to be the head programmer of a network.
        When Grant Tinker, the highly regarded head of the MTM production company, arrived at NBC a year later -- charged with resurrecting its fortunes -- he immediately decided that Mr. Tartikoff was one of its key assets. ''In the midst of all NBC's floundering, Brandon looked like an island of sanity,'' Mr. Tinker said.
        But Mr. Tartikoff had enormous personal hurdles to overcome throughout his career. As Don Ohlmyer, the president of NBC's West Coast division, put it, ''Life didn't always smile on him, yet Brandon always smiled at life.''
        While he was in Chicago, at age 25, Mr. Tartikoff was first diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease. He underwent radiological treatment and never missed a day of work. He was declared cured. Less than a decade later, shortly after he took over as president of NBC Entertainment, the disease returned.
        It came at time when his early efforts to return around NBC's programming fortunes were faltering. One lineup of eight new series he put on the schedule failed en masse.
        That year, in 1982, at a meeting of NBC affiliates, Mr. Tartikoff appeared to discuss NBC's programs. He had been undergoing chemotherapy. Only the highest NBC executives knew he was wearing a wig and had false eyebrows taped to his face. The NBC affiliate managers asked him to leave the room. He sat sick and chilled, in a hotel lobby as the managers insisted to Mr. Tinker that Mr. Tartikoff be fired.
        Mr. Tinker refused and the network began to turn around soon after as Mr. Tartikoff added first ''Cheers'' then ''The Cosby Show'' to NBC's lineup. Later years featured other classic shows like ''L.A. Law,'' ''Family Ties,'' ''Golden Girls'' and ''St. Elsewhere.''
        The cancer again went into remission. Mr. Tartikoff attacked life with the same unrelenting vigor he brought to his work. For years he played in one of Hollywood's best-known softball games on Saturday afternoons. He and his wife, Lilly, were one of the most active and attractive couples in Hollywood. Throughout his career he built a reputation as one of the best-liked executives in Hollywood.
        Besides his wife, the former Lilly Samuels, Mr. Tartikoff is survived by two daughters, Calla and Elisabeth. He is also survived by his father, Jordan Tartikoff of San Francisco and a sister, Lisa Rosenthal of Burlingame, Calif.
        Mr. Tartikoff's family life received another blow in 1991 when he was in a serious car accident, accompanied by Calla, who was then 8. Both received serious injuries from which he quickly recovered. His daughter, however, went through a long process of treatment for her injuries. The family moved to New Orleans to facilitate her treatment and had only recently moved back full time to Los Angeles.
        After the accident, Mr. Tartikoff joined Paramount Pictures as chairman, where he supervised such hit movies as ''Wayne's world'' and ''Clear and Present Danger.'' But he left Paramount in 1992 to devote more time to his family in New Orleans.
        Though he worked developing shows for New World Entertainment, he was mostly involved in independent production since then, through a company he had named H. Beale, after Howard Beale, the crazed anchorman character in the movie ''Network.''
        Jeff Sagansky, the co-president of entertainment for Sony Pictures and  a longtime friend, said he was shocked at the news of Mr. Tartikoff's death yesterday because he had so recently spoken with him and found him as full of life as ever.
        ''He had just been through treatment and his voice was barely a whisper but he wanted to tell me his latest ideas,'' Mr. Sagansky said.
        Mr. Sagansky added: ''In an industry that is often very cynical and unforgiving, Brandon didn't have a cynical bone in his body.
        ''He believed in everything he was doing and more than that he believed in the medium and the people who watched it.''
      