
        Dr. Leo Stone, a past president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and New York Psychoanalytic Society and a teacher and author who guided his colleagues toward a more humanistic approach toward their patients, died on Tuesday. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Stone, who practiced into his 80's, was an early proponent of the concept that any therapist or physician who remained too distant, too analytic or too rigid risked damaging his patient in critical moments or blunting the effectiveness of treatment. He asserted that counselors must reveal something of themselves and their own emotions to their patients.
        ''A failure in a critical juncture to show the reasonable human response which any person inevitably expects from another on whom he deeply depends can invalidate years of patient and largely skillful work,'' he wrote in his influential 1961 book ''The Psychoanalytic Situation.''
        Such views were considered radical when he and a few others put it forth in the 1950's. It was thought to be a contradiction of Sigmund Freud's ''mirror principle,'' by which the patient should never be allowed to see what was behind the face of the analyst.
        Dr. Stone said the principle should not be taken too literally. He said he seriously doubted whether a treatment ''would be disturbed by the patient's knowing whether one takes one's vacation in Vermont or Maine, or indeed (let me be really bold!) that one knows something more about sailing than about golf.'' In time his views came to be adopted by the majority of analysts.
        Janet Malcolm, in her 1981 book ''Psychoanalysis: The Impossible Profession,'' said that Dr. Stone, through his writings and the authority he brought to his innovations, instilled ''the sort of reverence that few but Freud himself have inspired.''
        Dr. Stone's views received a big impetus in the 50's when Freud's daughter Anna, a distinguished psychoanalyst, approvingly discussed his paper ''The Widening Scope of Indications for Psychoanalysis'' at a seminar. The paper was the outline of his argument that psychoanalysis must be modified humanistically and that it must expand to cope with a broader range of illnesses or emotional troubles than it had previously addressed. It became the basis of  ''The Psychoanalytic Situation.''
        Dr. Stone was able to spread his views at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, which he headed from 1974 to 1976, and the New York Psychoanalytic Society, which he headed from 1977 to 1979.
        At the institute, he would debate Dr. Charles Brenner, who regarded the whole notion of a ''real relationship'' between analyst and patient as little more than an attractive trick to gain the patient's confidence and one that he feared could interfere with the patient's own developing ideas of self-analysis.
        ''Suppose an analyst were to fall asleep during a session, or to forget an appointment with a patient,'' Dr. Brenner said, ''should he apologize, explain and discuss the reasons for his actions with his patient?''
        ''Many analysts would say he should,'' he added, ''and their arguments for doing so are persuasive.  Yet I believe the better course to follow is the usual one of encouraging a patient to express his thoughts and feelings about what has happened.  Only in that way can one learn whether a patient has taken his analyst's mistake as a slight that has offended and angered him, or as a sign of weakness that allows him to feel superior and even triumphant, or as a welcome excuse for anger, etc.''
        Should the analyst even express sympathy for the death of the patient's father ?
        In a debate on the issue at a New York seminar, Dr. Stone said he would. Dr. Brenner would not. Janet Malcolm wrote that Dr. Brenner explained that to express sympathy at such a moment would be to make it difficult for the patient to express pleasure, say, or spite over the father's death, a discovery that might be crucial to the patient's treatment.  Dr. Stone's view was that emotional support at the time would be more important than any delay it might cause in self-discovery.
        Leo Stone was born in Brooklyn, a son of Ruben and Marcia Stone, and grew up in Rockland County. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1924 and the medical school of the University of Michigan. He served on the staff of the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kan., in the 1930's and held neurology or psychiatry positions at several New York hospitals. He trained as an analyst at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, becoming a member of its teaching faculty and, in 1951, the director of its treatment center.
        Dr. Stone's first wife, Dena, died in 1968. He is survived by his wife, Marta Tellefsen Stone; a sister, Eleanor Uman of Hollywood, Fla.; three daughters, Trudy DiDia of New Hyde Park, Signe May Derrickson of Roslyn Heights and Britt Christner of Newfoundland, Pa., and a step-daughter, Susan Corre of San Diego, from his first marriage; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
        Although he was a dedicated psychoanalyst, he could also be critical of his discipline's overuse. ''If a man is otherwise healthy, happy and efficient,'' he said, ''and his attacks of headache can be avoided by not eating lobster, for example, it would seem better that he avoid eating lobster than that he be analyzed.''
      