
        Irving Cooperberg, a founder and the first president of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center in Greenwich Village, a hub of gay life in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65.
        The cause was AIDS-related cancer, said Richard D. Burns, the center's executive director.
        Mr. Cooperberg, who was born and raised in Brooklyn, quit college in 1951, joined the Army and served in Korea. Real estate investments in Manhattan and Fire Island Pines, beginning in the early 1960's, made him wealthy.
        In 1973, he attended a service at the embryonic gay and lesbian synagogue, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, in Greenwich Village. He soon volunteered to serve on its board. He was chairman from 1980 to 1984 and again from 1992 to 1993, as it grew into the world's largest gay and lesbian synagogue. He was also on the board of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Wyncote, Pa.
        Because of his role at the synagogue, Mr. Cooperberg was drawn into the effort in the early '80's to establish a citywide lesbian and gay center with a full complement of services. One of the first of its kind in the country, it was to occupy the former Food and Maritime High School at 208 West 13th Street.
        Resistance to the idea came not only from city officials but from other homosexuals. ''Many, many people said our community could not create or sustain an institution in which we could take care of our own,'' Mr. Burns recalled. ''Irving was able to instill confidence and belief in a hopeful vision.''
        Mr. Cooperberg was elected the center's first president in July 1983 and served until May 1987. He led the negotiations that resulted in a sale of the high school to the center and raised the money to secure it.
        Today, some 5,000 people a week attend one or more of 175 events held under its roof, including meetings, counseling sessions, conferences, dances, performances, exhibitions, readings and movies.
        He is survived by his companion,  Lou Rittmaster; a sister, Eileen Henzel, and a brother, Meyer, both of Queens.
      