
        Herbert Katzki, an official of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee for six decades who helped salvage thousands of uprooted lives in Europe and the Middle East, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a fall. He was 89 and lived on Manhattan's East Side.
        Mr. Katzki retired in 1979 as associate director-general of the J.D.C., the American relief and rehabilitation agency for Jews. Since then he had served as a volunteer, undertaking an oral history of the organization. At his death, he had completed more than 100 interviews, said Ralph I. Goldman, the agency's executive vice president emeritus. Mr. Goldman said the project would continue.
        Mr. Katzki's association with the organization began in 1936. It took him through the thick of World War II and the Holocaust, with another stream of Jewish refugees from Arab countries to be cared for in the years after the war.
        Mr. Katzki was born in Elizabeth, N.J. He graduated from New York University and trained to become a banker, but decided to join the committee staff in New York.
        He was assigned to the Joint Distribution Committee's Paris office in 1939 and was named secretary of the European executive council the next year. He closed the office just before the Germans marched in, and relocated to Lisbon with the rest of the staff.
        Later during the war, he worked for the United States War Refugee Board, which posted him first to Ankara, Turkey, and then to Bern.
        He returned to the committee after the war, directing its vast relief and resettlement effort in Germany for concentration camp survivors and displaced people.
        Subsequently, as assistant, then deputy director-general, he oversaw the agency's work in Europe and the Muslim world. Throughout, he played a major part in rebuilding and sustaining Jewish communities in Europe, and he helped establish programs for Jews in Israel and Muslim countries.
        In 1967, he was called back to New York, where he played a leading role at the agency, whose worldwide programs are supported by American Jewish federations and the United Jewish Appeal.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Kate Schiffmann Katzki.
      