
        Sidney Simon, a sculptor and a founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine, died on Monday at his summer home in Truro, Mass. He was 80 and also lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Mark said.
        Mr. Simon's work, which has been described as playful, ornamental and quixotic, can be found in the collections of the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Corcoran Art Gallery and the Williams College Museum of Art, among others. His public commissions included the fountain sculptures at World Wide Plaza in Manhattan and at the Graham Building in Philadelphia, as well as the altar screen and sculptures in the chapel at the United States Military Academy at West Point.
        Days before his death, Mr. Simon was still sculpturing in clay, and he had recently completed plans for an exhibition of his sculpture and paintings that is to open this weekend at the Long Point Gallery in Provincetown, Mass.
        Mr. Simon was born in Pittsburgh, and by the age of 15 he was excused from his afternoon high school classes to study art at Carnegie Institute of Technology. Later, he studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the University of Pennsylvania and the Grande Chaumiere in Paris. During World War II, he served as a captain in the Army Corps of Engineers, in charge of organizing war artists. Mr. Simon started as a painter but switched to sculpture to indulge his fascination with motion. He worked mostly in clay, terra cotta and bronze.
        In addition to founding Skowhegan with fellow artists Bill Cummings and Henry Varnum Poor as an art school run by artists, Mr. Simon helped start the Artists' Equity Association, a union. He was also on the faculty of the Parsons School of Design, the Art Students League, the Brooklyn Museum School, Columbia University, Cooper Union, the New York Studio School, Sarah Lawrence College and the Castle Truro Center for the Arts. He was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1995 and won numerous other honors and awards.
        Mr. Simon is survived by his second wife, Renee Adriance of Manhattan, and their two children, Nicholas J., of Hauppague, N.Y., and Tony, of Manhattan; five children from his first marriage, Mark, of Branford, Conn.; Teru, of North Pownal, Vt.; Rachel Simon Labeau of Brooklyn; Nora, of Delmar, N.Y., and Juno Duenas of San Francisco; a sister, Helen Grossman of Philadelphia, and 11 grandchildren.
      