
        O. W. Riegel, a journalist who turned an interest in propaganda acquired in Europe between the world wars into a career as a scholar and expert on the subject, died on Saturday at Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 94 and lived in Glasgow, Va.
        He had suffered a stroke the day before, according to Washington and Lee University in Lexington, where he had been a journalism professor for 34 years.
        Mr. Riegel began his career as a reporter and editor, including two years in the Paris bureau of The Chicago Tribune in the 1920's, before turning to the study of the gathering and use of information, first at Dartmouth College and then at Washington and Lee. By World War II he was already nationally known as an expert on propaganda and took a leave from Washington and Lee to serve as the principal propaganda analyst with the Office of War Information in Washington.
        His collection of propaganda posters from Europe and Asia, begun during his overseas assignments and continued throughout his life, is widely known as among the more unusual in private hands and once inspired a line of popular trading cards.
        ''Tom Riegel was one of the first people to see that propaganda would be a dominant force in the 20th century,'' said Professor Marshall W. Fishwick of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University yesterday. ''Long before others realized this, he began to collect items and did so for the rest of his long life.''
        Mr. Riegel's national reputation began in 1934 with the publication of a book that became a classic, ''Mobilizing for Chaos: The Story of the New Propaganda,'' a study of the machinations and chauvinisms that tainted the European press and radio.
        Reviewing the book in 1934, Elmer Davis, the newsman, radio commentator and his future boss at O.W.I., noted that Mr. Riegel had made an essential point, one that was often overlooked.
        ''Your side of the case is propaganda, my side of the case is the simple objective truth,'' he wrote in The New York Times. ''So feels the average man, even if he happens to be a prime minister or a dictator.''
        The repository of Mr. Riegel's life of scholarship was his home, a great old farmhouse in which he stored and showed his collection of more than 2,500 political posters. There were American and British posters from both World Wars, and German posters of the Hitler-Goebbels era and from post-war election campaigns. In 1992, a set of 15 culled from his World War II collection was produced and distributed by a trading card company, Tuff Stuff.
        Oscar Wetherhold Riegel was born in Reading, Pa. He was a journalism graduate of the University of Wisconsin and earned a master's degree in American literature from Columbia University in 1930.
        He first wrote for The Reading Tribune and later The Chicago Tribune in Paris and The New York Daily News. He started his academic career as an English instructor at Dartmouth in 1927.
        He joined Washington and Lee in 1930 and was named director of the department of journalism and communications in 1934, a post he held for 34 years. He retired as professor emeritus in 1973.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Jane Cordelia Butterworth Riegel; four sons, Kurt, of Arlington, Va., Hunt, of Novi, Mich., Mark, of Charlotte, N.C., and Quentin, of Bowie, Md.; a daughter, Cordelia R. Bingham of Crowthorne, England; 15 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      