
        Paul W. Williams, who served as a United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York in the 1950's and also as a Special Assistant Attorney General of New York, died on Monday at his home in North Plain Beach, Fla. He was 94.
        He died after a short illness, said Mary Forcellon, the administrator of Cahill Gordon & Reindel, the Manhattan law firm where Mr. Williams worked for many years.
        Mr. Williams was also a justice of the New York State Supreme Court, in 1954, before being named to the United States Attorney post, which he held from 1955 to 1958.
        In that job, as The New Yorker wrote in 1956, he went ''after racketeers with a gusto reminiscent of Tom Dewey when he had the job 23 years ago.''
        In an interview in 1956, Mr. Williams said: ''We're not after any individuals. We are only after rackets and racketeers. And this is not a drive against unions, but against racketeers, whether they're in trade associations or unions.''
        As a United States Attorney, he was one of many people over the years who prosecuted Jimmy Hoffa, who became president of the Teamsters Union in 1957.
        Eventually, evidence of union corruption uncovered by a Senate panel resulted in the union being ousted from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1957. Mr. Hoffa was obliged to accept a three-member monitors' board to oversee his work as president of the Teamster, and in 1964, he was sentenced to a 13-year prison term after being convicted of jury tampering and fraud.
        Mr. Williams had also overseen the successful prosecution of defendants accused of the acid blinding of a columnist for The New York Mirror, Victor Riesel, who had been writing about labor racketeers.
        In 1977, Mr. Williams retired from the Cahill Gordon firm. He had joined the firm in 1933 as an associate, specialized in trial and appellate practice - with time out for public posts and for military service in World War II - and rose to be a senior partner.
        In 1952, Gov. Thomas E. Dewey appointed Mr. Williams as Special Assistant Attorney General of New York in charge of investigations in Saratoga and Columbia Counties. In that post, as Mr. Williams recalled later, he dealt with ''corruption, gambling, bribery and prostitution.'' The investigations resulted in the indictment and prosecution of gamblers and others.
        Sidney Fields, a columnist for The New York Mirror, recalled in a 1956 column that Mr. Williams was appointed to investigate gambling in Saratoga County and gambling and prostitution in Columbia County. ''Neither vice now exists in either county,'' Mr. Fields wrote. Mr. Williams held the post until 1954.
        By 1956, Mr. Williams was being regarded in some quarters as a likely Republican nominee for governor. But he was eclipsed by Nelson A. Rockefeller, who threw his hat in the ring, won the Republican gubernatorial nomination and defeated incumbent, W. Averell Harriman, in the 1958 election.
        Mr. Williams was a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers and a life member of the American Law Institue.
        He was also prominent in a variety of nonprofit institutions and organizations. He was chairman of the board of trustees of Bard College from 1964 to 1974, a life member of the board of the American Cancer Society and a life trustee of the Boy scouts of America. He also held high posts in the Sons of the American Revolution and the Society of Colonial Wars.
        Mr. Williams was born in Rochester, the son of Henry B. Williams, a Baptist minister, and the former Lillian Gray White. He went on to receive a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1925 and his law degree in 1929, both from Harvard.
        Then he was an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1931 to 1933 and obtained indictments against members of the Dutch Schultz gang.
        He was a Navy lieutenant in the South Pacific during World War II. In 1945, he was the chairman of the Navy Board of Contract Appeals, which he had played a key role in setting up.
        Mr. Williams married Minerva Fedyn Sawdon in 1956. She died in 1990.
        He is survived by two stepdaughters, Lynn Russo of Palm Beach, Flas, and Fracnine Cook of Connecticut; a stepson, Stuart Sawdon of California; and several step-grandchildren.
      