
        Paul G. Gebhard, a lawyer who represented physicians organizations and is credited with having introduced the legal term ''informed consent'' in medical malpractice cases, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 69.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Maria Svolos Gebhard.
        Mr. Gebhard was the senior partner in the government, health care and association group at the Chicago firm of Jenner & Block.
        A partner in the firm, Jerald A. Jacobs, said that as far as he knew it was Mr. Gebhard, in a 1957 medical malpractice case, who first used the term ''informed consent'' in a court proceeding.
        Dr. Arthur Caplan, the director of the University of Pennsylvania's Center for Bioethics, said a California appellate court's ruling in that case had been very influential in the law, in terms of codifying the requirement of ''informed consent'' by the patient for medical care proposed by the physician.
        ''The 'informed consent' doctrine has stood the test of time,'' Dr. Caplan said, ''since what was advanced by the court in that decision is fairly close to what is required today'' in the law concerning consent by patients to physicians' proposed treatments.
        Mr. Jacobs, who is the managing partner of Jenner & Bruce's 65-partner Washington office, said Mr. Gebhard had used the term and concept of ''informed consent'' in a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of the American College of Surgeons, which was filed in the 1957 case, Salgo v. Leland Stanford Jr. University.
        In so doing, Mr. Jacobs said, Mr. Gebhard was drawing on his own earlier experience, as a labor lawyer, using a similar concept.
        In the Salgo case, Dr. Caplan said, a patient had sued the Stanford University hospital, saying a physician had not fully disclosed to the patient the risk inherent in recommended treatment.
        Dr. Caplan said that in his opinion the ruling contained ''the first articulation of what was meant by the legal phrase 'full disclosure': the idea that you had to disclose all of the relevant risks and benefits to the patient'' seeking care from the doctor.
        For more than 40 years, Mr. Gebhard was general counsel for national associations of surgeons, radiologists and dermatologists and other medical groups.
        Another colleague of Mr. Gebhard, Robert M. Portman, said Mr. Gebhardt had represented the surgeons group and the American College of Radiology in several important rulings. He had been a senior partner at Jenner & Block since joining the firm in 1989. Earlier, he was with the Chicago law firm of Vedder, Price, Kaufman & Kammholz for 33 years.
        Mr. Gebhard was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., grew up in Oak Park, Ill., and graduated from Yale College and from Harvard Law School.
        In addition to his wife, Maria, he is survived by their son, George, of Chicago; two children from a previous marriage, Paul R., of Brussels, and Sophia Gebhard Anema of Minneapolis; three grandchildren, and a sister, Mitzi G. Henderson of Menlo Park, Calif.
      