
        Leo Jaffe, well known for decades as an influential deal maker in Hollywood and as a philanthropist, died yesterday morning at his home in New York City after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        In a world where executives often move from one studio to another, Mr. Jaffe was noteworthy for spending his entire career at one company, Columbia Pictures. He ran the studio in the 1960's and 1970's and he helped build it into one of the strongest in the industry, based in part on his friendships with some of Hollywood's most powerful producers and directors.
        During his days at Columbia Pictures it produced such classic films as ''Lawrence of Arabia,'' ''On the Waterfront,'' ''Porgy and Bess,'' ''Lord Jim,'' ''A Man for All Seasons'' and ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.''
        Mr. Jaffe was also active in numerous philanthropies. He received honors from several Jewish organizations, New York University, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the White House and several mayors of New York City.
        Mr. Jaffe was born in New York City on April 23, 1909, and took his first job at Columbia in the summer of 1930 while he was still an undergraduate studying business at New York University. He joined the studio's auditing department shortly afterward and began working his way up the company's financial department.
        He was named treasurer in 1959, executive vice president in 1962, president in 1967 and chairman in 1973. He survived several changes in ownership at the company and a scandal involving David Begelman, a president of the studio who misappropriated money from Columbia in the late 1970's.
        Mr. Jaffe retired in 1981, when he became chairman emeritus, and he maintained an office there until his death.
        ''I spoke to him two weeks ago and he said he wanted to sit down and talk about things,'' said John Calley, the president of Sony Pictures Entertainment, which is the current owner of Columbia Pictures. ''This was his home.''
        Herbert A. Allen, a Hollywood deal maker whose family controlled the studio for many years while Mr. Jaffe was an executive, said in a telephone interview: ''He was an old-fashioned company man. He lived and breathed Columbia Pictures. In fact, up until a month or so ago when I saw him last, he still talked about the pictures 'we're' putting out.''
        Mr. Jaffe was never known as an executive with a keen eye for a script or a talented actor. But he developed relationships with a number of prominent figures in Hollywood and helped cut some of the deals that brought them to Columbia. These included Sam Spiegel, Ray Stark, Otto Preminger, Stanley Kramer and even Steven Spielberg, who directed ''Close Encounters of the Third Kind'' for Columbia Pictures.
        Mr. Calley said that in those days Mr. Jaffe's reputation was particularly strong because he never went back on his word, a trait that set him apart in the entertainment industry.
        During the time that he was the chairman, Columbia Pictures was shaken by the Begelman scandal.  Mr. Begelman, who had been the president of the studio, was found to have misappropriated $40,000, and the studio struggled to regain its financial footing and credibility after his ouster. Mr. Allen said that because Mr. Jaffe had had no involvement in the problem, he was able to help in the eventual recovery.
        Jack Valenti, chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, said, ''In the 31 years I knew him, I never went to him with a plea for help that he didn't come through.''
        Mr. Jaffe was active in various philanthropies, and received a special Oscar, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, in 1978.
        He also received the Humanitarian Award from the March of Dimes and the Brotherhood Award of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        For his years of work with the United States Information Agency, Mr. Jaffe was honored by President Ronald Reagan.
        A theater is named after Mr. Jaffe at New York University, where he served on several boards.
        Mr. Jaffe was twice widowed and he is survived by his third wife, Anita. He is also survived by three sons, Howard, Ira and Stanley, the former president of Paramount Communications and now the head of Jaffilms, a production company associated with Columbia Pictures; two daughters, Marcia and Andrea; a stepdaughter, Marilyn Hessel; nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      