
        Frank A. Kaufman, a Federal district judge in Baltimore who presided over many important cases and was a leader in the American Bar Association, died today at his home in Baltimore. He was 81.
        A family friend and former law partner, Shale Stiller, said the cause was a rare blood disease.
        In the Washington area, Judge Kaufman was known for his role in presiding over one of the nation's biggest courtroom struggles over school desegregation in the suburb of Prince Georges County, Md.
        He issued an order in 1972 that busing be used to desegregate the schools, which was upheld on an appeal to the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Stiller recalled Judge Kaufman today as a man completely immersed in his work and gave as an example the many times when he was a lawyer and would take briefcases filled with his work to games of the Baltimore Orioles, then a minor league team in the International League and one of his clients.
        While the game was going on, Judge Kaufman would use the team doctor's telephone and call Mr. Stiller, then a junior member of their law firm, to discuss cases, and, he said, ''I would hear the roar of the crowd on the telephone.''
        At an American Bar Association meeting in Honolulu in 1980, Judge Kaufman recalled the day when six members of the American Nazi Party invaded his chambers and he responded by moving his business to another office until the invaders got bored and left.
        ''Don't give kooks the confrontation that they want,'' he said. ''Those people wanted to be held in contempt. Sometimes by holding people in contempt all you do is provoke a riot.''
        His other rulings included a finding in favor of inmates at the Baltimore City Jail in which he held that the jail was unconstitutionally overcrowded and one that invalidated testing for promotions in the Baltimore City Police Department on the ground that it was racially discriminatory.
        Mr. Kaufman graduated from Dartmouth College in 1937 and from the Harvard University Law School in 1940.
        He began practicing law in his native Baltimore but soon joined the Government at the outbreak of World War II in various legal capacities. In 1944 and 1945, he served in the Psychological Warfare Division at the Allied headquarters in Europe.
        He resumed his law practice after the war and was appointed to the Federal bench by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966, taking senior judge status, which generally means a reduced workload, in 1986.
        Mr. Stiller said Judge Kaufman frequently took on the more conservative leadership of the American Bar Association, where he served on the board of governors.
        Mr. Stiller said Judge Kaufman favored increased relations between American and Soviet lawyers during the height of the cold war.
        ''The conservative A.B.A. didn't want dealings with Communists,'' Mr. Stiller said, ''but he wanted contacts, and he prevailed.''
        Judge Kaufman is survived by his wife of 52 years, Clementine; a daughter, Peggy Wolf; a son, Frank A. Jr., all of Baltimore, and four grandchildren.
      