
        Peter Ambler Carruthers, a physicist at the University of Arizona and former head of the theoretical division at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, died on Sunday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 61.
        The cause was liver failure, the university said.
        Dr. Carruthers's interests in theoretical physics ran from condensed matter to quantum optics and particle physics, from relativistic physics to the theory of strong interactions of elementary particles. He led the theoretical branch at the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico from 1973 to 1980 and then served as group leader of elementary particles and field theory.
        As division leader, he added 200 scientific personnel and built the division into the core of the laboratory and a center of world rank in theoretical physics. Los Alamos, operated by the University of California, was previously known chiefly as the desert laboratory where the atomic bomb was designed under the Manhattan Project.
        More recently, Dr. Carruthers focused on the statistics and dynamics of galaxy distributions. He joined the University of Arizona in 1986 as a professor of physics and department chairman. For several years he also served as the director of the Center for the Study of Complex Systems at the university.
        Born in Lafayette, Ind., Peter Carruthers graduated from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1957 and earned a doctorate in theoretical physics in 1960 at Cornell University, where he began his teaching career.
        At Cornell he worked under Dr. Hans A. Bethe, the Nobel laureate. While there, he also appears to have been among the first physicists to have shown a theoretical inkling of the existence of the hypothetical particles now called quarks.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucy Marston Carruthers; a son, Peter, of Ithaca, N.Y.; two daughters, Debra of Espanola, N.M., and Kathryn Daniels of Norfolk, Va.; his mother, Nila Carruthers of Middletown, Ohio; a sister, Sally Hooper, of Los Angeles, and three stepchildren, Glen Gross, also of Los Angeles, Susanna Gross of Boulder, Colo., and Katheryn Hinkle of Rohnert, Calif.
      