
        Herbert Jose de Souza, a Brazilian sociologist who became the figure most identified with fighting inequality, hunger and police brutality in his country, died Saturday night at his home in the Botafogo section of Rio. He was 60.
        The Brazilian radio reported the cause of death as liver failure. Mr. de Souza, best known by his nickname, Betinho, was a hemophiliac who contracted H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, through a blood transfusion in 1986. Two of his brothers, Henrique and Francisco Mario, were also hemophiliacs, and they, too, died from complications of AIDS acquired from contaminated blood. Mr. de Souza once told a reporter that he believed his brothers' deaths nine years ago had prepared him for his own.
        An increasingly ghostly figure as the disease and an array of medications wore him down, Mr. de Souza weighed 86 pounds at the time of his death, and was being fed through a nasal tube. But his eyes retained a youthful sparkle, and the sociologist did not withdraw from either his commitments or society.
        Last year, his life and efforts to bring poor Brazilians into the democratic process were honored by the Imperio Serrano samba academy, which made him the subject of its annual Carnival entry. Wearing a black ribbon for the victims of mud slides and flooding in slums a few days before, Mr. de Souza rode atop the school's lead float, waving at the stands.
        He regularly appeared as a spokesman for the dispossessed. One appearance came earlier this year, when the city of Rio was lobbying the International Olympic Committee to hold the Olympics here in 2004.
        Though invited to a news conference to give his support to the measure, Mr. de Souza said the expense would be justified only if it galvanized the city and state to improve the city's infrastructure, sanitation and living conditions for Rio's poorest residents. After the Olympic Committee ruled out Rio, Mr. de Souza continued to press the city's Mayor to make the civic improvements that had been pledged.
        Long identified with Brazil's dispossessed, Mr. de Souza fled Brazil shortly after a right-wing military dictatorship took power in 1964. As a hemophiliac, he said, he could not survive torture. He returned under a general amnesty in 1979. He started nonprofit organizations to fight hunger, and an advocacy group for patients with AIDS called the Brazilian Interdisciplinary AIDS Association.
        ''I'm still well,'' he said in an interview in 1987, after announcing that he had contracted the AIDS virus. ''I'm just living under the guillotine.'' At the time, few Brazilians with the disease would speak up publicly.
        Mr. de Souza's reputation was tarnished in 1993, when he admitted having accepted donations for his AIDS association from an organized crime figure. In an interview this year, he said that next to learning that he had H.I.V., it was the most difficult moment of his life.
        ''The good side was that it demystified my image,'' he said. ''Saints don't exist. People take actions that are either right or not, and that's what we have to pay attention to.'' Learning that, he added, ''helped me, but the cost was very high.''
        Though hunger remains a serious problem in Brazil, he once said he had hoped through his activism to at least raise the consciousness of the Brazilian elite, who he believed held the key to improving conditions.
        ''Looking at the human and natural resources of Brazil, I have never found any scientific reason why we cannot feed our 50 million people,'' he said several years ago. ''The problem is that the Brazilian elites don't see the poor. It's a problem of negation of other people.'' He attributed this to the legacy of slavery, which ended in Brazil only in 1888.
        Mr. de Souza is survived by his wife, Maria Nakano, and their son, Henrique, as well as by a son, Daniel, from an earlier marriage.
      