
        Joseph Austin Phillips, a chief assistant prosecutor for Maurice H. Nadjari, the New York State special prosecutor who led an anti-corruption inquiry in the 1970's, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65.
        The cause of death was heart disease, according to Edward J. Kirk, a cousin.
        Mr. Phillips was born on Aug. 17, 1932, in a family with ancestors of Irish, Scotch and Danish extraction. His father, who died when he was 6 years old, was a Wall Street broker. Mr. Phillips went to Saint Michael's High School, St. John's University and St. John's Law School, working his way through school as a computer operator and a management analyst.
        After passing the bar examination, Mr. Phillips spent a year with a small Brooklyn law firm and then obtained a post in the office of District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan. He was assigned to the appeals bureau, where he argued and prepared briefs in more than 100 criminal appeals in the Appellate Division, State Court of Appeals and the United States Supreme Court.
        One of the cases Mr. Phillips argued in front of the Supreme Court involved the racketeer Joseph Lanza, who charged that an illegal wiretap had been placed in his prison cell. Mr. Phillips's arguments persuaded the high court to rule against Mr. Lanza.
        From 1964 to early 1971, Mr. Phillips was assigned to the rackets bureau of Mr. Hogan's office, which involved him in trials dealing with commercial painting scandals, rigged milk prices, the activities of organized crime and corrupt public officials.
        Mr. Phillip was not always victorious in his courtroom battles. He was the prosecutor in the 1971 trial in which 13 Black Panthers were acquitted on all 12 counts of an indictment accusing them of conspiring to bomb department stores and police stations.
        In 1972, Mr. Phillips joined the staff of a House of Representatives committee that held hearings on drugs in the schools in six major cities, including New York and Los Angeles. Later that year, he was one of the first people appointed by Mr. Nadjari in his investigation of corruption in New York City's criminal justice system.
        In 1977, he briefly and unsuccessfully ran for the Democratic nomination for mayor. In recent years, he practiced law.
        A widower, Mr. Phillips is survived by his daughter, Christine Phillips, and a brother, James. W. Phillips.
      