
        Bennett A. Brown, a captain of Southern banking who navigated through the financial shoals of bad real estate loans and interstate mergers, died on Saturday morning at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 68.
        Lung cancer was diagnosed in Mr. Brown a year ago.
        He served as chief executive of the Citizens and Southern National Bank of Atlanta from 1978 to 1991, when the bank acceded to a takeover offer from the NCNB Corporation of Charlotte, N.C. Mr. Brown served as chairman of the combined company, renamed Nationsbank, through 1992.
        Through the 1960's and 70's, Citizens and Southern had been the largest and most flamboyant bank in the South. But its loose real estate lending practices sent the bank to the brink of failure in the recession of the mid-1970's. The problems lingered and the bank was under close regulatory scrutiny in 1978, when Mr. Brown was named acting chairman. The appointment was meant to be temporary, and a search was under way for an outsider to take the helm.
        ''The troubles were of such magnitude you could hardly describe it,'' said Larry Gellerstedt, a longtime member of the Citizens and Southern board. The board ultimately decided to give Mr. Brown the job permanently.
        ''It was so impressive to see how the management team and the people in the bank rallied behind Bennett; there was an air of euphoria,'' Mr. Gellerstedt recalled.
        Mr. Brown clamped down on lending standards and nursed the bank back to health. In the 1980's, he led an acquisition spree, first buying smaller Georgia banks and later, when the law allowed, banks in Florida and South Carolina, as well. But Citizens and Southern's earlier troubles fostered a caution that caused it to fall behind other Southern banks, especially NCNB, which by then had become the biggest in the South.
        In 1989, Citizens and Southern rebuffed an unsolicited takeover offer from NCNB. Mr. Brown was put off by Hugh L. McColl Jr., NCNB's brash and ambitious chairman, who announced the bid without ever speaking to him.
        A few months later, Citizens and Southern agreed to merge with the Sovran Financial Corporation of Norfolk, Va., in what was then the largest bank merger in the United States. Mr. Brown remained chairman.
        That merger hurt Citizens and Southern more than it helped it. The two partners never worked together well, and Sovran turned out to be full of bad real estate loans, this time in and around Washington.
        Detecting weakness, Mr. McColl tried again to buy Citizens and Southern in 1991. This time, he tried to reach out to Mr. Brown in a private and friendly manner. Eventually, Mr. Brown agreed to the $4.3 billion takeover.
        That deal created what would be renamed Nationsbank and was, at the time, the second-largest bank in the country. It has now fallen back to the fourth largest, but has continued to be one of the most aggressive banks in the country. After the merger took effect, Mr. Brown served as chairman of Nationsbank for a year although Mr. McColl remained chief executive.
        Mr. Brown was born in Kinstree, S.C. After graduating from Presbyterian College in South Carolina, he served in the Army and then worked briefly at Chemical Bank in New York. He joined Citizens and Southern as a trainee in 1955, moving up through a series of jobs with increasing responsibilities.
        Since retiring in 1992, he lived in Atlanta and on Pawleys Island, S.C.
        Mr. Brown served as president of the Bankers Roundtable, a leading industry group, and of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Alice Rustin of Columbia, S.C.; three daughters, Charlotte Brown Dixon of Atlanta, Leila Brown Armknecht of Salt Lake City, and Katherine Brown Ohlhausen of Atlanta; a son, Bennett Alexander Brown 3d of Temple, Ga., and six grandchildren.
      