
        Carlton Moss, a filmmaker, writer, cultural scholar and social critic, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        It is a reflection of the black experience in Hollywood that the man who became a revered inspiration to generations of black actors, scriptwriters, directors and stagehands spent most of his career turning out obscure industrial movies, training films and schoolroom documentaries with names like ''Happy Teeth, Healthy Smile.''
        But then one thing that made him a hero was that at a time when blacks were largely excluded by the Hollywood establishment, Mr. Moss worked almost constantly, and always on his own terms.
        If he had to make industrial films to survive, they were at least his films, and they gave him the credentials he needed to turn out a stream of educational documentaries focusing on black achievement.
        Not that his documentaries were to be scoffed at. To some film historians, at least, no single film since D. W. Griffith's 1915 epic ''Birth of a Nation,'' has had a more powerful influence on black movies, black movie roles and society than Mr. Moss's 1943 Army documentary, ''The Negro Soldier.''
        Griffith's portrayal of negative black stereotypes virtually created the black film industry, stimulating a wave of black-made movies depicting blacks in a more favorable light.
        Whatever impact ''The Negro Soldier'' had on American soldiers when it was released to civilian audiences after the war, its portrayal of black heroism created a sensation.
        Seen as a harbinger of racial progress, it heightened black expectations and accelerated the drive for desegregation. The United Auto Workers used it to prepare its members for an integrated work force, and Hollywood was soon turning out movies with black themes.
        Lest anyone overlook Mr. Moss's pioneering role, his friend and admirer, Stanley Kramer, paid him a sly tribute. In his 1949 movie, ''Home of the Brave,'' Mr. Kramer gave the black soldier victimized by racist comrades the name ''Mossy.
        Mr. Moss, himself, was hired to help write Elia Kazan's 1949 movie ''Pinky,'' about a black girl who passes for white, but he became so upset by an early draft that he quit rather than collaborate on a project he felt would be demeaning to blacks.
        Although the final version satisfied many of his objections, by the time it was released Mr. Moss, who was too strong-willed to brook much collaboration, anyway, had charted his course as an independent specializing in educational films.
        To the aspiring black film makers he encouraged and guided and to the students he taught, as a guest lecturer at Fiske University in Nashville and as a professor at the University of California at Irvine, Mr. Moss was more than a documentary filmmaker eking out a living on the Hollywood periphery.
        He was the man in the blue beret with a long memory.
        A native of Newark who grew up there and in North Carolina, Mr. Moss became a culural force while still a student at what is now Morgan State University in Baltimore. Recruiting actors from other black colleges he formed a troupe, ''Toward a Black Theater,'' which made a tour of black campuses before hitting New York, where Mr. Moss was soon in the thick of the Harlem Renaissance, hobnobbing with W.E.B. Dubois, conceiving and writing three radio series for NBC, creating a popular radio talk show and becoming a fixture in the Federal Theater of the Work Projects Administration.
        Indeed he was John Houseman's chief assistant at the Lafayette Theater where Mr. Houseman mounted Orson Welles's Haiti-based adaptation of ''Macbeth.''
        Mr. Moss, who settled in West Hollywood after the war, remained a keen observer of the Hollywood scene. For all the progress made by blacks in the movie industry, he was always looking for more and better.
        He was a sharp critic of black exploitation films, and even dismissed Bill Cosby's successful television series show as harmless pap.
        Recognizing that the trend to desegregation had doomed the once-flourishing black film industry, he longed for a day when black filmmakers would focus unblinkingly and realistically on black themes, conflicts and issues.
        While he waited he pursued his own uncompromising course, a black filmmaker making movies about the black experience and lighting the way for others.
        Mr. Moss, whose wife died several years ago, is survived by two sisters, Mary, of Hyannisport, Mass., and Phyllis Henderson of Orange, N.J.
      