
        David Ross, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a colorful majority leader of the New York City Council in the 1960's, died on Monday at Montefiore Hospital in New York City. He was 76.
        The cause was leukemia, according to a statement released by the court.
        Justice Ross was born in Zeradov, Poland, on Nov. 28, 1920, and was brought to the United States at the age of 3. He attended New York City public schools, working in the family bakery and on a delivery truck after hours. He graduated from high school at age 15 and later received a law degree from St. John's University Law School in 1942. He served in the Pacific during World War II as an officer in the Army Intelligence Corps..
        He was elected to the New York State Assembly from Bronx County in 1950 and three years later was elected to the New York City Council, where he remained for 15 years. From 1963 to 1968, he was the Council's majority leader, known as a regular organization Democrat who ran the Council like a political club, using the persuasive power of his effervescent personality and well-placed favors to maintain party discipline.
        His political style was rooted in the streets of the East Bronx, where he once gained some small fame as a bantamweight boxer. ''The attributes which set some people's teeth on edge -- his brusqueness and crudeness and even rudeness -- make Ross almost the perfect leader for the Council and help give it a sense of organization,'' one City Hall observer told The New York Times in 1966.
        He was described in that same article as ''short at five feet, five inches, bouncy, ready with a quip or a pithy expletive'' and with a cigar or pipe ''usually poking out under his brush of a mustache.''
        Justice Ross was elected to the New York State Supreme Court in 1969. As administrative judge from 1974 to 1979, he introduced procedural innovations that improved the court's operations and reduced a growing backlog by 50,000 cases.
        The scholarly and sedentary life at the State Supreme Court was a change for a man known as a nonstop talker and pacer, a lover of slightly off-color tales, a backslapper who was used to wheeling and dealing.
        Justice Ross had wanted to be named statewide administrative judge in 1975, but that post was given to Herbert Evans. In 1979, Gov. Hugh Carey appointed him to the Appellate Division, First Department. ''I understand there is sufficient work in the Appellate Division to keep me more than busy,'' he said when he was appointed. He served in the division until his retirement early this year.
        Presiding Justice Francis T. Murphy Jr. recalled his colleague as a jurist well respected for his temperament and legal scholarship, and noted that one of his last court opinions addressed the rights of individuals who are subjects of scientific research.
        Justice Ross is survived by his wife of 54 years, Miriam; his sons, Mitchell and Kenneth, both of New York City, and several grandchildren.
      