
        Clodomiro Almeyda Medina, an important leftist figure in Chile, died on Monday at his home in Santiago, Chile, after a long battle with colon cancer, his family said. He was 74.
        Mr. Almeyda held various Government positions, including Foreign Minister, Defense Minister and Vice President, in the Socialist-Communist coalition Government of Salvador Allende Gossens, who was overthrown in 1973 by the military forces under Gen. Augusto Pinochet.
        But Mr. Almeyda, an ardent Marxist who took refuge in East Germany during Chile's military dictatorship, was perhaps best known for sheltering Erich Honecker, the former East German Communist leader, at the Chilean Embassy in Moscow in 1991 when Mr. Almeyda served as ambassador to what was then the Soviet Union.
        The incident created a major diplomatic dispute between Chile and Germany, which sought Mr. Honecker's extradition to prosecute him for his Government's policy of shooting people who tried to flee East Germany.
        Although the dispute forced Mr. Almeyda to resign, he eventually persuaded Chile to grant asylum to Mr. Honecker, a close personal friend. Mr. Honecker died in Chile in 1992.
        On Monday, Chile's President, Eduardo Frei, declared three days of national mourning for Mr. Almeyda, whom he called ''a man of great ideas, who worked all his life for them and to serve his country.''
        Camilo Escalona, president of Chile's Socialist Party, said that Mr. Almeyda was ''one of the most important thinkers of the Chilean left and an educator for an entire generation.''
        In Chile, Mr. Almeyda, a lawyer and professor of sociology, is considered one of the most influential ideologists of the Socialist Party, which under his guidance sought to emulate Communist movements in Europe during the late 1960's and 1970's.
        Mr. Almeyda was a staunch advocate for workers rights and pressed hard for the elimination of decades-old social and class barriers that kept most Chileans impoverished. He served on the Socialist Party's central committee from 1948 until his death.
        Mr. Almeyda paid dearly for his fierce opposition to the Pinochet military Government, which imprisoned him and other high officials of the Allende Government on Dawson Island in the Strait of Magellan, shortly after the 1973 coup. He was later transferred to a prison in Santiago, the Chilean capital, then sent into exile in 1975. He lived most of the time in East Berlin.
        In 1987, Mr. Almeyda returned to Chile by crossing the Andes on a mule, challenging a ban on political dissidents issued by the Pinochet Government.
        The military Government, describing Mr. Almeyda as ''an ideologue of the violent sector of the Marxist groups,'' sent him into internal exile in a remote mountain village. Later he was tried and convicted on charges of propagating violence and entering the country illegally. After spending a year in prison, the Chilean Supreme Court set him free.
        At that time, Mr. Almeyda said that he was not an advocate of violence but that his party simply refused to rule it out as a tool to use when nothing else was available. He said many other political philosophies in the world did the same.
        With the return of democratic rule in 1990, Mr. Almeyda was appointed Ambassador to the Soviet Union. After his resignation over the Honecker affair, Mr. Almeyda continued to play an important role in the Socialist Party through his lectures and writings.
        He is survived by his wife, Irma Caceres, and three children, all of whom live in Santiago.
      