
        Fabio Freyre, a member of the invasion force of Cuban exiles backed by the United States who tried to topple Fidel Castro at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, died on Sunday in his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 years old and had cancer, his family said.
        The invasion collapsed within 72 hours and most of the 1,400 participants, including Mr. Freyre, who had served in a mortar squad, were taken prisoner.
        Mr. Freyre, whose family had abandoned large land holdings in Cuba after Mr. Castro seized power in 1959, was condemned for treason with his fellow prisoners in a show trial in a Havana stadium. Though threatened with execution, Mr. Freyre refused to denounce the United States and the invasion.
        Instead, when Mr. Castro asked Mr. Freyre in an exchange in the stadium that was broadcast on Cuban radio why he had taken part in the landing, Mr. Freyre replied, ''Because I want, in my country, the establishment of the 1940 Constitution, a democratic government with free press and elections so the people can choose their own government.''
        After 15 months in prison, in August 1962, Mr. Freyre and three others in the landing force were freed when their families and friends paid ransoms -- $100,000 for Mr. Freyre alone. Most of the invaders remained prisoners for another five months.
        Back in the United States, Mr. Freyre reported on Cuban prison conditions to United States officials and later joined returned prisoners in trying to rally support for efforts to free the others.
        Mr. Freyre became a sugar broker, and later, an adviser to the shipping magnate Daniel K. Ludwig and a real estate broker in Connecticut.
        He is survived by his wife, Silvia; eight children, Maria Magdalena Mejer of Zaragoza, Spain; Eneas Pedro Freyre, Alina Hoyos and Margarita Maria Tomai of Greenwich; Silvia Alina Hill of Washington; Angela Mariana Freyre of New York; Caridad Duque of Paris, and Fabio Freyre of New Canaan, Conn., and 20 grandchildren.
        He is also survived by three sisters, Alina Gato of Palm Beach, Fla., and Ofelia Hines and Peggy Azqueta of Caracas, Venezuela.
      