
        Joan Mowat Erikson, who helped reshape the prevailing psychological view of human development through a six-decade, all-senses collaboration with her husband, Erik Erikson, and  still found time to pursue her own interests in arts and crafts, education and dance, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Brewster, Mass. She was 95.
        Officially, it was Mr. Erikson who developed the theory that one's sense of identity progresses through eight distinct life cycles marked by the resolution of successive emotional conflicts.
        But as Mr. Erikson made repeatedly clear, neither the theory nor its images would have been possible had it not been for the tall, striking woman who waltzed into his arms at a masked ball in Vienna in 1928 and rarely left his side until the day he died in 1994 at age 91.
        Joan, who was born in Canada and whose father was an Anglican priest, had graduated from Barnard College, obtained a master's degree from Columbia's Teachers College, completed the course work for a doctorate and gone to Vienna to do research for a dissertation on dance.
        Erik, the German-born son of Danish parents, was a restless, itinerant  painter of children's portraits who had been lured to Vienna by a friend to become a glorified baby-sitter and had stayed, first to help Anna Freud and others create a progressive school and later to study with her father, Sigmund Freud.
        Mr. Erikson was so smitten with the woman he called ''die Schone''  (German for ''the beauty'') that he gave up his aimless ways. She was so taken with him that she abandoned her dissertation and took a job at the school.
        They married in 1930, and by the time she persuaded him to go to the United States in 1933 and specialize in child analysis, he had completed his formal training in psychoanalysis and they had had two children.
        After two years at Harvard University and four at Yale (where their third child was born), they moved to the University of California at Berkeley. He taught there until 1951, when he resigned rather than sign a loyalty oath imposed in the anti-Communist hysteria of the McCarthy era.
        It was during the Berkeley years that the Eriksons conceived and worked out the details of the eight-cycle theory of human development, at once broadening Freud's biology-based, sex-oriented stages of childhood development to embrace social context and extending the cycles into adulthood.
        Although the two worked together so closely it was impossible to tell who contributed what, Mr. Erikson, who had learned English from his wife and recognized her superior skill with language, once recalled that while he had been leaning toward ''inner confidence'' as the value an infant gains from the mother,  Mrs. Erikson had persuaded him that what he really had in mind was  ''basic trust.''
        In an early version of the theory,  there were only seven stages, perhaps as an echo of Shakespeare's seven ages of man. But as Mrs. Erikson was driving her husband to a train before he was to give a paper on the theory, it dawned on them that they had left out the very cycle they were then in, the child-bearing years of adulthood.
        After her husband's death, Mrs. Erikson continued their work, using his notes and her own ideas to add a ninth stage of development, covered in a recent reissue of the book ''Life Cycle Completed.''
        Mrs. Erikson's survivors include two sons, Kai of Hamden, Conn., and Jon of Port Angeles, Wash.; a daughter, Sue Bloland of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
        It was during the Berkeley years that Mrs. Erikson developed an interest in arts and crafts. She became a weaver, made jewelry and worked with beads, the subject of a 1969 book, ''The Universal Bead.''
        When her husband took a job in 1951 treating severely disturbed children and young adults at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Mass.,  Mrs. Erikson put her interest in crafts to innovative use as director of activities there. At a time when occupational therapy was little more than a euphemism for keeping patients busy on useless tasks, Mrs. Erikson, who had a knack for finding and encouraging the point of strength in a troubled person, brought in painters,  sculptors, dancers, weavers, potters and others to create a program that provided real therapy.
        The work led to a further book, in 1976, ''Activity, Recovery and Growth.''
        The couple spent the 1960's at Harvard. By the time they returned in the 1980's to conduct joint classes at the Joan and Erik Erikson Center, they seemed ideal role models for their theories: a couple who had grown old gracefully, which is to say they acted like adolescents in love, walking hand in hand and kissing openly in public.
      