
        Charles A. Horsky, a lawyer and former Government official who helped redevelop the nation's capital during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 87 and lived in Silver Spring.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his daughter, Margaret Horsky Burns.
        Mr. Horsky argued many cases and held many important positions in a law career that began in 1934, but it was his work as adviser to the President for national capital affairs from 1962 to 1967 that had the greatest impact on those who live in or visit Washington, an impact that will be felt for years to come.
        President John F. Kennedy appointed him to the White House job and Lyndon B. Johnson carried him over when Johnson succeeded to the Presidency in 1963. During Mr. Horsky's time at the White House, he pressed for switching money from a highway project to the construction of a subway system, and the resulting Metro is now regarded as one of the best in the world.
        He worked on the redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue, a project that was begun after the 1961 inaugural parade and Kennedy determined that America's Main Street had become seedy and unworthy of a great nation. That project is just being completed with the opening soon of the Ronald Reagan Building.
        Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who served in the Kennedy Administration with Mr. Horsky, recalled that they were reviewing plans for the redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue on Nov. 22, 1963, when they received the word that the President had been shot. The plans were to be presented to Kennedy for his approval the next day.
        Another of Mr. Horsky's accomplishments is enduring a melancholy chapter. For years, Washington was run as a virtual fiefdom of Congress, with residents having no say in its government. During the Johnson Administration, a push was made to establish home rule for Washington and it was Mr. Horsky who played the pivotal role in getting legislation for it through Congress.
        Mr. Moynihan, reached at his home in upstate New York, said: ''Charlie Horsky was 'Mayor of Washington.' He looked forward to giving that up and getting home rule for the city of Washington, and he accomplished a great deal toward that end.''
        In recent years, however, with the District of Columbia's budget deficit ballooning out of control, Congress has taken back much of that power and placed it in the hands of a control board.
        Mr. Horsky's other activities included establishing the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, rescuing Union Station and opening both the National Building Museum and the University of the District of Columbia.
        He was born in Helena, Mont., graduated from the University of Washington in 1931 and received a law degree from Harvard University in 1934. He served as a lawyer in the Solicitor General's office until 1939, when he joined Covington & Burling, one of Washington's leading law firms, staying there for the rest of his career except for his White House years.
        After World War II, Mr. Horsky served as an assistant prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and argued many cases before the Supreme Court, including a case that challenged the wartime internment of Americans of Japanese ancestry.
        ''I was trying to persuade the Court that there was no legitimate basis for the Army to arrest citizens,'' Mr. Horsky said in a 1989 interview with The Washington Post. ''I couldn't get enough information to make it stick.''
        Mr. Horsky lost his argument before the Supreme Court, but in 1988, Congress approved and President Ronald Reagan signed a bill that offered the nation's apologies to Japanese Americans and provided payments to those who were interned.
        A partner at the firm, David B. Isbell, said that Mr. Horsky took senior counsel status, that is, a reduced work load, in 1981 and that until he was slowed down by illness two years ago, he had kept active in the firm by arbitrating railroad disputes.
        His wife of 58 years, Barbara Egleston Horsky, died two years ago.
        Besides his daughter, Ms. Burns, a resident of Falls Church, Va., Mr. Horsky is survived by a sister, Flora Wertz of Missoula, Mont., and two grandchildren.
        Despite his advancing years, Mr. Horsky maintained a rugged regimen. ''He never wore an overcoat, even on the coldest day,'' Mr. Isbell said of his colleague. ''I don't think he had one. It may have had something to do with his coming from Montana.''
        That Great Plains frame of mind prevailed as recently as 1989, when he drove around in the middle of winter in his 1962 Ford convertible, often with the top down. When asked in the interview in The Post about his lack of an overcoat, he said, ''I am sure I had one in college.''
      