
        Norris Edwin Bradbury, the physicist who reluctantly followed J. Robert Oppenheimer as the director of the nation's first atomic weapons research center and then served longer in the job than anyone else, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88.
        Dr. Bradbury took over in 1945 as the director of what was soon billed as ''the best-equipped physics laboratory in the world.'' He had been invited by Dr. Oppenheimer to do so and, after conferring with his family, agreed to stay on: for six months or until a permanent successor was found, whichever came first.
        What came was 25 years on the job, enough time for a wartime crash project to grow into Los Alamos National Laboratory. Dr. Bradbury oversaw the transition and retired in 1970 when the Atomic Energy Commission presented him with its highest honor, the Enrico Fermi Award.
        During his tenure, the laboratory developed the first thermonuclear weapons and continued to break ground with research in both nuclear and non-nuclear weaponry, in addition to building a solid foundation for basic research.
        Norris Bradbury was born in Santa Barbara, Calif., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Pomona College. He received a doctorate in physics and mathematics in 1932 at the University of California at Berkeley, where he worked on the mobility of ions in gases.
        As a research fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and teacher at Stanford University, he gained expertise in the conduction of electricity in gases, properties of ions and atmospheric electricity.
        Called to active duty in World War II, Dr. Bradbury worked on projectile ballistics at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Va. He was sent to Los Alamos to help assemble the non-nuclear parts for the world's first nuclear explosion in 1945.
        With the war over, most scientists of the Manhattan Project thought that Los Alamos was finished as well. The project's prominent scientists were returning with Dr. Oppenheimer to less warlike pursuits, and Dr. Bradbury felt the same when Dr. Oppenheimer called him in for a chat and persuaded him to take his place temporarily.
        The institution had completed its project and was left without a compelling mission. Dr. Bradbury helped restore its purpose not only to military ends but also for a leading position in basic scientific areas like nuclear power and magnetic fusion.
        Dr. Bradbury is survived by his wife of 64 years, Lois Platt Bradbury; three sons, James N. and David E., of Santa Fe, N.M., and John P., of Golden, Colo.; a sister, Mary Elizabeth Bradbury of Monrovia, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      