
        Michael J. Tully Jr., a Republican State Senator from Long Island who was instrumental in passing New York's ban on smoking in public buildings, died early yesterday at his home in Flower Hill. He was 64.
        The Nassau County police said he suffered a heart attack after returning home from an all-night legislative session in Albany.
        In his 15 years in the Senate, Mr. Tully focused on health, environmental and veterans issues.
        ''He broke the logjam on how to restrict smoking,'' said Blair Horner, the legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''Prior to his time as health chairman, the Senate never did anything on smoking.''
        Mr. Tully, a former smoker, supported other restrictions besides the Clean Indoor Air Act, including tougher penalties on tobacco sales to minors. The State Senate's majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said Mr. Tully was also effective on ''women's health issues, where his effort resulted in landmark laws dealing with breast cancer and other diseases.''
        Born in New York City, Mr. Tully grew up in Hell's Kitchen and in  Queens, and he received bachelor's and law degrees from St. John's University. He moved to Nassau and started as a lawyer in private practice and also worked as an assistant district attorney.
        Linking his political career to the powerful Nassau County Republican Party, he began a string of election victories as a North Hempstead town councilman from 1968 to 1971.
        The next 11 years, he served as supervisor of the town government and as its representative on the county's Board of Supervisors.
        One setback in Mr. Tully's career came in 1994, when he paid a political price for his loyalty to his ally and neighboring North Shore Senator, Ralph J. Marino. That year, Senator Bruno ousted Mr. Marino as the majority leader, and the realignment that followed ended Mr. Tully's five-year tenure as the chairman of the health committee.
        Mr. Tully's seat in the Senate will be filled by a special election.
        Mr. Tully is survived by his wife, Mary; his sons, Michael, of Manhattan, Christopher, of Garden City, and Brian, of Franklin Square; and his daughter, Maura, of New Hyde Park.
      