
        The Russian pianist Sviatoslav Richter, one of the most acclaimed keyboard artists of the 20th century, died yesterday in a Moscow hospital. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Russian Culture Ministry reported.
        Though he kept a commodious apartment in Moscow and a country dacha in the woods outside the city, in recent years Mr. Richter lived  mostly in Paris and Germany. He gave concerts up until two years ago, when he had a heart by-pass operation. Afterward, his health declined and he returned to Moscow about a month ago with his wife, Nina Doloyak, a former singer.
        Mr. Richter's pianism combined astonishing technical mastery with bold, wide-ranging musical imagination. His control over the colorings of piano tone was incomparable. In romantic works by Schumann and Chopin, he could create uncanny effects with sound and shadings. And he could project inner voices in the sonatas of Schubert, which he particularly loved, and of Bach with extraordinary clarity and independence. Yet his playing could be inconsistent.
        He was a moody, often brooding man, prone to insecurity and often practicing for 12 hours at a stretch in anticipation of a performance.
        Loathing plane travel and ocean crossings, he had not played in the United States for 25 years. His American debut tour in the fall of 1960 created a sensation. At the time, he was 45, and had performed outside  the Soviet Union only once before, in  Finland. But evidence of his greatness had spread through his recordings on the Melodiya label, and many American musicians who had heard him in Russia, including Van Cliburn in 1958, brought back reports of his spectacular pianism.
        His first United States performance was with the conductor Erich Leinsdorf and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. But it was a series of five Carnegie Hall recitals, beginning on Oct. 19, 1960, that electrified the public. Reviewing the first recital, a program of five Beethoven sonatas, Harold C. Schonberg reported in The New York Times that ''every musician in town was present'' and that, for once, ''the sold-out house was seated an expectant 10 minutes before the stage lights went on.''
        ''There may have been a show-me attitude at the beginning,'' Mr. Schonberg continued. ''Within 15  minutes all was dissipated in enthusiasm. Mr. Richter proved to be a pianist of style, poetry and imagination: a complete artist.''
        For a pianist of such tremendous skill, Mr. Richter started relatively late. He was born on March 20, 1915, in the city of Zhitomir in the Ukraine. His parents, both German, were musical -- his father was an organist, pianist and composer -- but Mr. Richter essentially taught himself the piano. He became a coach and conductor at the Odessa Opera and Theater, and considered becoming a composer. ''I stopped composing just in time,'' he told an interviewer in Moscow in 1960. ''I never play my own music in public anymore, thank God.''
        At 19, he gave his first recital, an all-Chopin program, but did not begin formal lessons until 1937, at 22, when he entered the Moscow Conservatory as a pupil of Heinrich Neuhaus (who also taught Emil Gilels.) There, he also worked with Prokofiev, who was on the faculty, giving the premiere of the composer's Sixth Piano Sonata in 1942. His championing of Prokofiev continued with the first performances of the Seventh and Ninth Sonatas (the latter dedicated to him), and the sprawling Symphony Concerto for cello and orchestra (1952), in which Mstislav Rostropovich, his friend from student days, was the cellist and Mr. Richter  gave a rare appearance as a conductor.
        He won the U.S.S.R. Music Competition in 1945, and the Stalin Prize in 1949. In the 1950's, he played throughout the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, sometimes as many as 120 concerts a year, and began to make recordings. His discography is among the largest of any pianist of  his generation, but he essentially disliked making records. ''He much preferred to record his concerts live,'' said Jacques Leiser, a concert manager who worked with Mr. Richter for 37 years, speaking yesterday from his home in California.
        ''He found studio recording unnatural and high-pressured,'' Mr. Leiser added. ''But even when we recorded him onstage, he insisted that he not be able to see the microphones. We would have to hide them in potted palms and among vases of flowers.''
        His repertory was enormous, spanning Bach (including a provocative recording of the complete ''Well-Tempered Klavier''), through the works by his composer colleagues Shostakovich and Benjamin Britten, as well as his beloved Prokofiev.
        Mr. Richter gave American tours in 1965 and in 1970. A February 1970 performance at Carnegie Hall with the violinist David Oistrakh, a good friend, was disrupted by demonstrators protesting the treatment of Soviet Jews. The protesters ran screaming down the aisles to the stage pursued by security men and police officers, who had been concerned that  there might be trouble.
        ''Mr. Richter was deeply offended by this incident,'' Mr. Leiser said. The pianist, who was not Jewish, thought the protest was insulting to Mr. Oistrakh, who was. ''He felt they were unreasonably expecting Oistrakh to protest the situation in his country, and he thought that was unfair and rude,'' Mr. Leiser added.  His upset lingered, and may have added to his reasons for not making more of an effort in later years to return to the United States, despite constant offers and much pleading by promoters.
        Mr. Richter's own relationship with the Soviet leadership was ambiguous. He was no dissident, though in 1960 he performed (on an old upright piano) at the funeral of his friend, the censured author Boris Pasternack, an act that took courage at the time. Afterward several of Mr. Richter's planned tours to the United States and England were canceled, including appearances in London and at the Edinburgh Festival in 1962. Ill health was given as the reason, but it was rumored that Soviet officials were worried about his emotional stability.
        Mr. Richter's pianism attracted strong dissenting voices. Even Mr. Schonberg, summarizing his impressions at the conclusion of the pianist's five-concert series in 1960, was divided. ''Has one heard Ravel playing of such exquisite color since the great days of Gieseking? One doubts it.'' But he also thought Mr. Richter was not a ''heroic'' pianist. ''Despite a wonderful technique and the ability to make a magnificent piano sound, his style is essentially introspective.''
        Reviewing a 10-volume set of compact disk recordings from the 1960's and 70's, reissued in 1996, the New York Times critic Bernard Holland wrote that Mr. Richter, with his proclivity for color and sonority, ''surrenders to the primary tenet of the Soviet school: that the instrument dictates the style of performance and that when music and that style clash, music must adjust.''
        Overwhelmingly, however, he was hailed as a supreme artist. In an entry on Mr. Richter for the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, Max Lopert wrote: ''His technique, consummate in its virtuosity, allows him an extraordinary freedom, plasticity of phrase-shaping; he draws from the piano a range of tone colors varied, distinctive and recognizable from first utterance to last.''
        Mr. Richter was a stocky, thick-necked man with enormous hands. He used to walk out on stage almost heedless of the audience, eager to sit at the keyboard and immerse himself in music.
        Yet he was a cultured, well-read, fluent in German and French, and a collector of art and decorative objects. At his Moscow apartment he had works by noted Russian painters, like Robert Falk, and handsome carved Russian icons of the Madonna from the 14th century. He was himself an avid painter, whose produced works in a colorful Impressionistic style.
        He was devoted to chamber music, and in 1965 was a founder of the Tours Chamber Music Festival in France. In his later years, he was more comfortable playing in smaller, rural festival venues, like that run by his friends Britten and Peter Pears at Aldeburgh, in England.
        But although he gave counsel to aspiring musicians, he was never interested in teaching formally. ''Give lessons? Good heavens, no!'' he explained to an interviewer in 1963. ''If anything I ought to take a few myself.''
        Correction:  August 14, 1997, Thursday
        An obituary of the pianist Sviatoslav Richter on Aug. 2 misspelled the surname of his wife. She is Nina Dorlyak, not Doloyak.
        Correction: August 16, 1997, Saturday  An obituary on Aug. 2 about the pianist Sviatoslav Richter misidentified the conductor with whom he made his United States debut. Erich Leinsdorf conducted the Chicago Symphony Orchestra; Fritz Reiner had become ill.
      