
        David A. Prager, a lawyer who became an outspoken and forceful advocate for urban architectural preservation and an influential figure in the arts in New York City, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        Mr. Prager was passionate about the beauty of the city and about maintaining and renewing the architectural purity of classic buildings. As president and a longtime board member of the Municipal Art Society, he was a leader in the fight to preserve Grand Central Terminal and St. Bartholomew's Church and to establish the Urban Center in the Vuillard Houses. He was also instrumental in the battle to reduce the size and density of the new building planned for Columbus Circle.
        ''He was a fierce, relentless fighter, but a fighter with enormous civility,'' said Fred Papert, president of the 42d Street Development Corporation. ''He had virtues rarely found in combination: a sensible, evenhanded diplomat and one of the great kvetchers in the city.''
        William H. Whyte, the author and a fellow Municipal Arts Society board member, said that Mr. Prager was ''a major influence on environmental action'' and ''a positive force, peppery in his convictions, not one to abide by foolish conclusions.''
        An enthusiast for various arts, he was devoted to painting, sculpture and music as well as architecture. As a lawyer, he represented artists like Joseph Cornell, Jack Tworkov and George Rickey and the New Yorker cartoonists Alan Dunn and Mary Petty. His own taste embraced Abstract Expressionism.
        His cultural interests also extended to the world of music, through his work with the Dessoff Choirs and the Diller-Quaile School of Music, which, partly through his efforts, became a prospering community music school.
        Mr. Prager was born in Long Branch, N.J., and was educated in New York City schools, graduating from Columbia College and Columbia University Law School. During World War II, he was a captain in the United States Army Signal Corps.
        In his solo law practice, he handled trusts and estates. Combining his professional and cultural interests, he began collecting work by clients and by other artists. He also followed up his interest in opera and chamber music, and was one of the organizers of, and a singer with, the Canby Singers, a small choral group specializing in early music.
        He was a member of the executive committee of the American Federation of Arts. For several years, he was on the acquisitions committee for the Whitney Museum of American Art. In 1977, after a heated legal battle over the Mark Rothko estate, Mr. Prager was named to the board of the Mark Rothko Foundation, and continued to serve until 1988.
        He is survived by his wife, Annabelle (a children's author); a son, Jonathan, and a daughter, Lucy Prager Weintraub, both of Manhattan, a grandson, and a sister, Esther Enrich of Hartsdale, N.Y.
        Mr. Prager's astute eye for art was demonstrated in 1956 when he went to an international sculpture show at the Rodin Museum in Paris and noticed in the museum's garden that an Alexander Calder mobile was at rest rather than in motion -- and it was a very windy day.
        As the owner of a Calder mobile, which the artist had created for Mr. Prager and installed in the Prager apartment, he realized that the sculpture at the Rodin had been improperly assembled. Taking a copy of the exhibition catalogue, he climbed up on a stepladder with the approval of museum officials and reassembled the mobile properly. Until the end of the exhibition, the Calder performed its natural function. It was another clear case of Mr. Prager taking direct action to insure the integrity of a work of art.
      