
        Col. Albert F. Schoepper, the White House music consultant and leader of ''The President's Own'' Marine Band for 17 years until he retired in 1972, died on July 29 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Arlington, Va.
        He had suffered a stroke, a band spokesman said.
        Like most members of the orchestra, which is the country's oldest musical organization, he was a highly qualified professional musician. Colonel Schoepper spent 38 years with the band. He joined the band as an enlisted man in 1934, playing violin and saxophone, and became the first Marine Band director to reach the rank of full colonel.
        Colonel Schoepper performed as a soloist and conductor before royalty and heads of state and government at hundreds of White House engagements. He directed ''The President's Own,'' as the United States Marine Band is known, at the inaugurations of Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
        The Marine Band was formed in 1775 to gather recruits for the fledgling corps. Congress formalized its role in 1798, and the band has been on call to every President since then.
        It has grown to include 140 musicians and a supporting staff of 12. Most often it is broken into ensembles for performances but performs as a whole to dedicate national monuments or for dignitaries assembled on the South Lawn of the White House.
        It also is used to serenade dinners with gypsy music and to play waltzes for dancing afterward. Band members play chamber music, the classics, opera, Broadway and pops, depending on the occasion and who is being feted at the White House.
        Colonel Schoepper was in charge of the band for 17 years, more if one counts from the time he was named ''second leader,'' when he was still a master sergeant, in 1951. He took the full band on 18 of the concert tours, conducting the band before an estimated 12 million people.
        Moreover, he served as supervisor of all the bands in the Marine Corps and as music adviser to the White House. He helped organize soirees with the country's finest artists and appearances of its most popular performers.
        All the flourishes did not come without some ruffled feathers. In the Johnson Administration, members of the White House social staff, as the story is told, had a ''frank exchange of views'' because they considered Colonel Schoepper too indulgent of Mr. Johnson's passion for the fox trot, neglecting other rhythms that his dancing guests might have favored.
        For his last performance at the White House, Colonel Schoepper led the Marine Chamber Orchestra at a reception for retiring members of Congress. Once the final chord faded, President Nixon introduced him and toasted him as the guests stood and saluted.
        Albert Schoepper was born in Rochester and began his musical training at age 7 with the violinist Alfred Perrot. While still in high school, he entered the Eastman School of Music to study with Gustav Tinlot. He also studied violin and conducting under Andrew Polah at Syracuse University.
        After joining the Marine Band in 1934, he often appeared as a violin soloist on network radio programs and was named concert master of the Marine Chamber Orchestra. He first conducted at the White House in 1942.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Laura Hatfield Schoepper; a daughter, Barbara Avery of Vienna, Va., and three grandchildren.
      