
        Luise King Rey, one of the harmonizing King Sisters who sang their way out of Utah in the 1930's, cut a swath through big-band America in the 1940's and made a surprise splash on television in the 1960's, died on Monday at her home in Sandy, Utah. She was 83 and had been married for 60 years to the guitar-playing band leader Alvino Rey.
        They may not have achieved the breakthrough success of, say, the Andrews Sisters or the McGuire Sisters, but to hear Mr. Rey tell it, the King sisters and their intricate four-part harmony were so far ahead of their time that they prefigured the Hi-Lo's and the Four Freshmen of the 1950's.
        And although their music tended to be a bit too complicated to produce a runaway hit record, the King sisters, whose repertory included such numbers as ''The Hut-Sut Song'' and ''Milkman, Keep those Bottles Quiet,'' were a special favorite of the big-band and jazz musicians of the day. And they had a big following on radio and in top theaters and ballrooms from coast to coast.
        There were also a lot of them -- six, as it happened -- Maxine, Alyce, Marilyn, Donna, Yvonne and Luise, all of whom filled in at one time or another on what started out as a trio and quickly became a foursome.
        To Mr. Rey's eyes, at least, Luise, a member of the original trio and a fixture in the quartet, was the pick of a bouquet of blond beauties, but to her way of seeing, he took some getting used to.
        When the band leader Horace Heidt, who had signed the King Sisters in 1932 to appear with his orchestra between movies at the Golden Gate Theater in San Francisco, told her that he had hired a good-looking young guitar player she might take a shine to, the 18-year-old Luise took one look at Mr. Rey, a long-haired musician in a crew cut era, and said she would not be caught dead with him.
        For all his shaggy locks, Mr. Rey had a certain staying power.
        After five years as mainstays of the Horace Heidt Musical Knights, the couple were married in New York in 1937. Two years later Mr. Rey formed his own band with the King Sisters as a prime attraction.
        After a few heady years playing the Paramount Theater in Los Angeles, the Biltmore Hotel in New York, and just about every big-name theater and obscure roadhouse in between, Mr. Rey went off to the Navy in 1943 and the King Sisters went off on their own, touring with Artie Shaw, headlining at the Copacabana and appearing on the air with Kay Kyser.
        By the time Mr. Rey returned from the war, the sisters had gone their separate ways, marrying and having children, their career apparently over.
        Natives of Payson, Utah, the sisters got their show business start in 1921 when their father, William King Driggs, a music teacher, gave each of his children a musical instrument for Christmas.
        Luise, who was already learning the piano, got an accordion, and in short order the siblings, including two brothers, were charming small-town crowds at pass-the-hat performances.
        As teen-agers, Maxine, Luise and Alyce formed a trio, adopting their father's middle name, and began singing for a Salt Lake City radio station, an engagement that soon earned them a similar gig with a station in Oakland, Calif., where they came to the attention Mr. Heidt.
        After their presumed retirement, the issue of an album of their songs kept their name before the public in the 1950's, but it was an unusual extended-family charity performance at Brigham Young University in the early 1960's that led to their unlikely television success.
        As performers, the sisters were merely the tip of the family musical iceberg, and when they and some three dozen of their relatives, including their father, appeared on ABC's ''Hollywood Palace'' variety show in 1964, they drew more than 50,000 adoring fan letters and created such a sensation that within a few months the sisters were back in the spotlight as stars of ''The King Family,'' a wholesome hour-long ABC program that involved as many as 59 relatives.
        After a year-long run in 1965, the program went into syndication for several years before being revived on ABC for 13 weeks in 1969.
        Mrs. Rey, who gave her last performance before 15,000 people at a Utah centennial celebration last year, never lost her youthful bandstand appeal. As she put it at 80 in describing a local jazz quartet her husband had formed: ''I'm the girl singer.''
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Rey, whose sister Alyce died last year, is survived by three children, Robert and Jon of Salt Lake City and Liza Butler of Houston; four sisters, Maxine Thomas of Los Angeles, Donna Conkling and Yvonne Burch of Sacramento and Marilyn King of Los Angeles; six grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      