
        The death at 36 of Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car crash in Paris brought to a tragic close the life of a woman who had gone from being a shy young society girl to one of the world's most glamorous women.
        Her marriage to Prince Charles, heir to the British throne and 12 years her senior, on July 29, 1981, was one of those events that people remember as a timepost in their own lives, a moment of old fashioned romance and royal splendor seldom seen in this century. Fifteen million people in Britain alone watched it on television.
        The unraveling of that marriage was just as public, with the extraordinary occurrence of candid television interviews by the two partners about their separate adulteries and the descent of the young Princess into eating disorders and suicide attempts.
        Though the marriage ended officially with their divorce a year ago Aug. 28, the rivalry for public attention and approval continued until her death. This year the Princess had taken highly publicized trips to former war zones like Angola to conduct her high-profile campaign against landmines, and had in recent weeks posed knowingly on Mediterranean holidays with her friend, Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, 42, in an apparent effort to show the world that the once troubled young woman had found personal happiness.
        Prince Charles, for his part, held the first photo calls at his vacation home in Balmoral since the early days of his marriage, appearing with the couple's two sons, William, 15, the next heir to the throne, and Harry, 13. It was a competition conducted by photo opportunity, and in the Princess's case turned a liability she often complained about, the constant attention of paparazzi, into an asset.
        Lady Diana Spencer was born on July 1, 1961, Sandringham, Norfolk, and was only 19 years old when Charles proposed. Her son William was born in June, 1982, providing promised continuity to the crown and making her the mother of a king-to-be.
        By 1986 the first press stories about cracks in the marriage appeared, at a time, a biography of the Princess has said, when Charles had resumed his relationship with his married friend Camilla Parker Bowles.
        That biography ''Diana: Her True Story,'' by Andrew Morton, said she then started dating a cavalry officer, James Hewitt, conducting an affair that lasted four years and which she later said had hurt her.
        The royal couple had few common interests. Charles loved horses, his garden and traditional architecture; she loved buying clothes, listening to pop music on her Walkman and gossiping on the telephone.
        Once a girl in frilly modest-maiden dresses and a modified bowl haircut, she had become a fashionplate with annual expenses of more than $1.2 million, a woman whose every style change influenced the way women around the well dressed world appeared. Just this past June, 80 of her dresses were auctioned off for charity at Christie's in New York, promoted in a lavish catalogue shot by Lord Snowden, the former husband of Princess Margaret.
        The couple separated in 1992, and in November 1995, Diana gave her explosive interview to the BBC confessing her own adultery, her anger at the palace and her feeling that Charles would not be a good King. It became widely reported that her wish was that Charles renounce his right to the crown, passing it on to their son William, known to the British public as Wills.
        In the divorce she had to give up the honorific Her Royal Highness, the title that separates the royal family's inner circle from other nobles and aristocrats, but was able to keep the title Princess of Wales. She obtained lump sum payment of $22.5 million and $600,000 a year to maintain her offices. She also got the right to keep her five-bedroom, four-reception-room apartment at Kensington Palace.
      