
        Max Berking, an advertising executive who became an influential figure in Westchester County Democratic politics, died on Wednesday at the home of his daughter, Charlotte Berking Zanecchia, in Alford, Mass. He was 80 and had lived in Northport, Fla., since his retirement in 1982.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, Mrs. Zanecchia said.
        Mr. Berking spent much of his advertising career at his Manhattan firm, Max Berking Inc., which was sold in 1981. One career highlight  was a promotion for Red Devil Tools that ran in Life magazine in the mid-1950's, family members said.
        But his extracurricular love was politics, specifically the uphill struggle of the Democratic Party in the heavily Republican precincts of Westchester County. ''He was indefatigable,'' said John Carey, mayor of Rye from 1973 to 1981. ''When I was running for re-election to the Rye City Council in 1967, we were up way past midnight making calls and I wanted to go home. Max just smiled at me and said, 'All the greatest political achievements in history were achieved after midnight.' ''
        In 1964, in the Democratic landslide led by President Johnson, Mr. Berking won his one and only elective office, filling the remaining year of a four-year term as state senator for eastern Westchester. A year later, however, he was defeated in the predominantly Republican district. He also ran for Westchester County executive in 1969, but lost.
        From then on, his role was as a party leader and unabashed lobbyist for liberal causes. In 1971, he was unanimously elected by the party's executive committee as Westchester County Democratic chairman and served until 1975. He was a longtime lobbyist for environmental groups, and from 1977 to 1986 he was consultant to the Legislative Committee on Energy Systems, which promoted energy conservation.
        Even after retiring to Florida, he relished politics. He wrote a regular political column for The Northport Sun-Herald and had framed a letter to the editor, commenting on his column, that said, ''Max Berking is just too liberal to be believed.'' Friends say he would just beam when pointing out the letter.
        Mr. Berking, who grew up in Greenwich, Conn., had a longtime concern for justice for the poor. College friends say classes at Williams College taught by Fred Schumann, R. R. R. Brooks and especially Max Lerner, the essayist and professor of government, had a profound influence on Mr. Berking, who graduated from Williams in 1939.
        ''We were suburban kids,'' said Harry N. Gottlieb, a classmate of Mr. Berking at Williams. ''Those professors opened our eyes to what was going on in the world.''
        Mr. Berking's first wife, the former Dorothy Noyes, died in 1962, and he was separated from his second wife, Frances Bauman Berking, of Northport, Fla.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Berking is survived by three sons, Charles, of Boxford, Mass.; Peter, of Vienna, Va., and Laurence, of Rochester.
      