
        John C. Liebeskind, a leading researcher in the study of pain and its relation to health, died on Sept. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived here.
        The cause was cancer, according to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was a professor of psychology and anesthesiology.
        Until Dr. Liebeskind's research, pain was regarded by many experts as an annoying byproduct of injury and disease that had little effect on a patient's recovery. But in a 1993 study, he reported that pain suppresses the immune system in animals, allowing cancer tumors to spread more quickly.
        Believing that humans reacted similarly to pain, Dr. Liebeskind argued that doctors, many of whom were reluctant to prescribe much pain relief medication for fear that patients could become addicted, should be more aggressive in controlling patients' pain. He called for doctors and medical students to be better trained in pain management.
        ''He had a huge impact on pain research,'' said Huda Akil, one of Dr. Liebeskind's former students who is  professor of neuroscience at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and co-director of the school's mental health research institute. ''He had the idea that pain can kill. Pain is not  something that if you have discipline you can ignore. It's a perfectly normal request to ask to have your pain controlled.''
        Dr. Liebeskind's work earned him several honors, including election to the National Academy of Sciences in 1995. That same year, he was given the F. W. L. Kerr Award for lifetime achievement by the American Pain Society, the professional organization over which he presided during the early 1990's. At the time of his death, Dr. Liebeskind was president-elect of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
        In the early 1970's, Dr. Liebeskind was among only a handful of scientists who were studying the brain and its reaction to pain. During his early research, he located specific areas of the brain that were responsible for reducing or increasing pain.
        He also found that the brain controls pain by creating a chemical now known as an endorphin. Stress and fear can cause this substance to be released, he showed, thereby helping to control pain.
        Just before his death, Dr. Liebeskind was working on an oral history of pain research.
        Dr. Liebeskind was born in Waterbury, Conn., on Feb. 2, 1935. He  earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a doctorate from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty at the University of California in Los Angeles in 1965.
        He is survived by his wife, Julia; three sons, Gabriel, Nicholas and Benjamin, all of Los Angeles; and a sister, Lois Levine of San Carlos, Calif.
      