
        Robert Pinget, a Swiss-born novelist and playwright who first won recognition as a member of the Nouveau Roman literary movement in France in the late 1950's, died in a hospital in Tours on Aug. 25 at the age of 78.
        The cause of death was a stroke,  French newspapers reported.
        A tall, dapper man who showed little interest in fame or success, Mr. Pinget was a prolific author, publishing 14 novels, 11 plays and several books of essays and notes, winning a loyal following more for his body of work than for any single best seller. He was nonetheless considered a master of dialogue, a talent he used in both novels and plays.
        ''I hear my characters more than I see them,'' he explained in an interview with the leftist Paris daily Liberation earlier this year. ''I transcribe what they say. To write, I have to hear what I write.''
        His career was helped by his association with better-known members of the Nouveau Roman movement, like Alain Robbe-Grillet, Claude Simon, Nathalie Sarraute and Marguerite Duras, although he always played down the notion that they represented a new school of fiction. Rather, he once said, the term existed because Robbe-Grillet decided to borrow it from a French critic.
        ''We didn't see each other often,'' he told Liberation. ''We weren't friends, even though we respected each other a great deal. But we didn't send each other our books. We met up again 30 years later in New York for a symposium on the nouveau roman. Mrs. Sarraute and I both had lumbago.''
        Born in Geneva on July 19, 1919, Mr. Pinget studied law and began practicing it, but he never liked what he did. At the age of 25, he moved to Paris and decided to enter the Ecole des Beaux-Arts with the idea of becoming a painter, although from an early age he had also enjoyed writing. ''Slowly I concluded that my writing was stronger than my painting,'' he once recalled.
        He published his first book of short stories in 1951, although it was only four years later, when Editions de Minuit reprinted his first novel, ''Mabu ou le Materiau,'' that he began to be noticed. In 1959 he wrote his first play, and in the 15 years that followed he averaged one new work a  year. His play ''La Manivelle'' (''The Handle'') was translated by his friend Samuel Beckett and produced outside France.
        In his interview with Liberation, he explained his different approaches to novels and plays: ''In a novel, you rarely think of the reader. In the theater, you do so all the time. In plays, you have to simplify the writing, to be more directly intelligible, to think of the reaction of the public. You also have to think of the actor, manage the pauses and silences, worry about punctuation. Beckett used to say, 'In the theater, I'm a whore.' ''
        After living for some years in Paris, Mr. Pinget, who never married, opted for the isolation of a cottage near Tours in the Touraine region. His novel, ''L'Inquisitoire'' (''The Interrogation'') won the French Critics' Prize in 1961, while another novel, ''Quelqu'un'' (''Someone''), won the prestigious Femina Prize in 1965. One of his plays, ''Architruc,'' was produced by the Comedie Francaise in 1982, a rare privilege for a living playwright. In 1987, he was awarded the Grand Prix National des Lettres, the same year that five of his plays were presented at the Avignon theater festival.
        One of the unusual features of his fiction was the frequent reappearance of characters and themes, creating the impression that it comprised what one French critic called ''one immense novel.'' Typically, in his last work, ''Taches d'Encre,'' a 96-page book published in May, he returned to a character called Monsieur Songe, which happened to be the name of a novel he published in 1982. He described this book as ''Monsieur Songe's final notebook.'' ''Of course I can always write another,'' Mr. Pinget joked, ''even if he tells me he has had enough.''
      