
        Edgar Kaplan, one of the greatest figures in the world of bridge, died on Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72.
        He had suffered from cancer for several years, his sister-in-law, Sylvia Kaplan, said.
        In a bridge career spanning half a century, Mr. Kaplan filled every possible role in the game: champion player, teacher, system maker, author, journalist, editor, publisher, coach, commentator, administrator and lawmaker. He influenced players at every level, from world champions to beginners.
        Mr. Kaplan twice finished second in world team championships, in the Bermuda Bowl in Miami Beach in 1967, and a year later in the World Team Olympiad in Deauville, France. He represented the United States in six other world championships.
        Mr. Kaplan won 28 national titles over five decades, including the Vanderbilt Knockout Teams six times, in 1953, 1968, 1970, 1981, 1983 and 1986, and the Spingold Knockout Teams in 1967 and 1968. He won the third major team championship, the Board-a-Match Teams, eight times, in 1958, 1966, 1967, 1971, 1982, 1983, 1984 and 1990. In 1957 he was awarded the McKenney Trophy for the most master points won in a year. His favorite partner, who shared in most of the victories, was Norman Kay of Narberth, Pa.
        With other experts, he founded the Card School of New York and taught thousands of players in the New York metropolitan area in the 50's and 60's. In collaboration with Alfred Sheinwold, who died earlier this year, he developed the Kaplan-Sheinwold system of bidding. Many of its elements became part of the standard methods and were adopted by millions around the world.
        ''How to Play Winning Bridge: Kaplan-Sheinwold System'' was written with Mr. Sheinwold and published by Fleet in 1958. A year later Mr. Kaplan's ''Complete Italian System of Winning Bridge'' (Washburn) demonstrated his mastery of the methods that were regularly defeating American teams at that time. The book made him a natural choice to coach American teams that were selected to face the Italians. Three other major books followed: ''Winning Contract Bridge Complete'' (Fleet, 1964); ''Competitive Bidding in Modern Bridge'' (Fleet, 1965); and ''Duplicate Bridge: How to Play, How to Win'' (Bantam, 1966).
        Mr. Kaplan contributed frequently to The Bridge World magazine and bought it in 1966. He was its publisher and editor, with Jeff Rubens as co-editor, for the rest of his life.
        He was an American delegate to the World Bridge Federation, advising a series of presidents for 30 years. He was frequently the chairman of appeals committees, and was often the choice as chief commentator, entertaining Vugraph audiences with his wit and analysis.
        His particular expertise was in the laws of the game. As chairman of the National Laws Commission in the United States and of the World Bridge Federation's Laws Commission, he made major contributions in the periodic revision of the two codes, for contract bridge and for duplicate bridge.
        In 1979 Mr. Kaplan was named bridge personality of the year by the International Bridge Press Association.
        Mr. Kaplan was born in Manhattan and lived there all his life, except during World War II, when he served as a radio operator in the Pacific, and when he attended Cornell University. His wife, Betty, died in 1985.
      