
        James R. Phelan, an author and a dogged investigative reporter who made a crusade out of exposing the reclusive billionaire Howard R. Hughes, died on Monday at his home in Temecula, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was lung cancer, Janet Phelan, a daughter, said yesterday.
        Mr. Phelan died just before the publication of his book ''Money: The Battle for Howard Hughes's Billions,'' which was written with Lewis Chester. The book is due from Random House next month.
        Mr. Phelan, who worked on the staff of The Saturday Evening Post and as a freelance writer for several other publications, including The New York Times and Paris Match, seemed endlessly intrigued by the financial dealings and political machinations of Mr. Hughes.
        His best-selling 1976 book, ''Howard Hughes: The Hidden Years,'' an account based largely on the experiences of two Hughes aides, offered the first inside look at the life of Mr. Hughes, who died in 1976.
        Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown of California credited his re-election victory over Richard M. Nixon in 1962 to an article by Mr. Phelan in The Reporter magazine about a loan that Mr. Hughes had made to Mr. Nixon.
        Another investigation by Mr. Phelan helped reveal that Clifford Irving's purported biography of Mr. Hughes was based on Mr. Phelan's unpublished manuscript, not on interviews with Mr. Hughes, as Mr. Irving had claimed. The hoax cost Mr. Irving 17 months in a Federal prison.
        Born in Alton, Ill., Mr. Phelan began his career at The Alton Evening Telegraph, then moved to the West Coast in 1947 to work for newspapers in Long Beach, Calif. In his 1982 book, ''Scandals, Scamps and Scoundrels: The Casebook of an Investigative Reporter,'' he chronicled his career starting as a green newspaper reporter who thought he had dug up a big story about gangsters and wound up tossed in a ditch with a gun pressed against his head.
        In his memoir, he also said he had learned early on that many news organizations considered investigative reporting too expensive, risky and time-consuming.
        ''The chilling effect of libel suits would be substantially reduced,'' he wrote, ''if publishers and editors budgeted more for producing articles and less for lawyers to defend them.''
        In addition to his daughter Janet, of Long Beach, Mr. Phelan is survived by his wife, Amalie, and another daughter, Judith Phelan of Temecula.
      