
        John Marshall Leddy, a former senior official of the State and Treasury Departments whose Government career was interrupted by a confrontation with Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1953, died on Aug. 31 at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 83.
        Mr. Leddy retired from the State Department in 1969 after serving in a succession of Government posts handling trade and international economic affairs.
        He served as Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs from 1965 to 1969; Ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development from 1963 to 1965, and Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for international affairs from 1961 to 1963.
        He began his career in public service in 1937 as an officer in the Pan-American Union's economic information division.
        For a time in the early 1950's, it appeared that Mr. Leddy's career would be cut short by Senator McCarthy's hunt for communists in the State Department, said Mr. Leddy's son, Thomas Leddy of Vienna, Va.
        ''Senator McCarthy was on a rampage, accusing everyone at the State Department of being a member of the Communist Party,'' recalled Thomas Leddy, a policy executive at the International Monetary Fund. ''My father had proposed liberalizing trade toward Eastern Europe, which particularly raised his ire. Pop got out of town for a couple of years and then came back.''
        John Leddy conducted research at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University for several years, then returned to the State Department in the late 50's as a special assistant to Deputy Undersecretary C. Douglas Dillon.
        While serving as Assistant Secretary of State in 1966, Mr. Leddy received a Rockefeller Public Service Award for more than 20 years of service in public affairs.
        After his retirement, he served as a consultant to the Atlantic Council, producing a study on reform of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1975.
        Mr. Leddy was married for 43 years to Louise Crawford of Nashville; she died in 1978. In addition to his son, he is survived by his second wife, Margaret Hardy Potter, also a former State Department trade official, whom he married in 1983, and two granddaughters.
      