
        Timothy Wadsworth Stanley, an authority on defense policy who served in the 1960's as assistant to Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara for NATO force planning and then as a defense adviser, with the rank of minister, in the United States mission to NATO, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, D.C. He was 69.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Alessandra, who is co-chief of The New York Times's Moscow bureau.
        Mr. Stanley held defense posts in the Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. He was a special assistant on the White House staff during the Eisenhower Administration, from 1957 to 1959, and held other Pentagon posts before that and later. He was an assistant to Secretary McNamara, based in Paris, from 1965 to 1967, and a minister in the NATO mission, based in Paris and Brussels, from 1967 to 1969.
        He was awarded the United States' Distinguished Civilian Service medal in 1969 for work he had done in Europe, including playing a key role in getting agreement from other NATO countries on the proposed strategy of ''flexible response,'' which had been the subject of contention, within the alliance, since the Kennedy Administration began.
        He went on to be a visiting professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in 1969 and 1970, and he also taught at Harvard and George Washington Universities over the years. In 1973 and 1974 he was special representative of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in Vienna, during negotiations about East-West mutual balanced force reductions.
        Mr. Stanley later worked as a political economist specializing in international matters. He was president and then chairman of the International Economic Policy Association, a Washington-based consulting firm, from 1974 to 1987. During those years, he also became president of the International Economic Studies Institute, a Washington-based not-for-profit think tank. He held that post until 1996.
        His many writings include the book ''NATO in Transition: The Future of the Atlantic Alliance'' (1965). In his later years he often testified as an expert witness before Congressional committees.
        Mr. Stanley was born in Hartford,  grew up in New Britain, Conn., received a bachelor's degree in 1950 from Yale and a law degree in 1955 and a doctorate in political science in 1957, both from Harvard.
        He served in the Army from 1946 to 1948 and in 1951 and 1952, rising to first lieutenant. It was while he studied political science at Harvard that he became interested in defense and in international relations as policy matters. And he also went on to be admitted to the bars of the Supreme Courts of Connecticut and of the United States.
        In addition to his daughter Alessandra, he is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Nadia Leon; two sons, Timothy W. 3d of Manhattan and Christopher M. of Cambridge, Mass.; another daughter, Flavia M. of Northampton, Mass; and three grandchildren.
      