
        John Jermain Slocum, a retired Foreign Service officer, scholar and bibliophile whose James Joyce collection formed part of Yale University's trove of rare books, died on Aug. 12 at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 83 and lived in Newport.
        A native of Lakewood, N.J., he graduated from Harvard College in 1936 and from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1938. On a recommendation from David Rockefeller, a Harvard classmate, he became a press aide to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia of New York but resigned in 1941 to enlist as a private in the Army. He served in public-information posts and, rising to captain, and became a spokesman for the Joint Force that conducted atomic bomb tests in the Marshall Islands in 1946.
        As a member of the diplomatic service, he then worked for the United States Information Agency until 1970 in Germany and Egypt. He also traveled widely in Asia and South America, representing the agency's Inspection Corps. On loan from the State Department, he took part in the effort to coordinate the various museums of the Smithsonian Institution.
        He was a member of a Presidential Cultural Property Advisory Committee and a leader in the American Numismatic Society. In 1974 he was an organizer and founding president of the Friends of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington.
        Mr. Slocum developed his literary interests at Harvard and became a supporter of leading writers and poets, including Henry Miller, Eudora Welty and Gertude Stein.
        He also gathered what is considered the world's foremost Joyce collection, which was acquired by Yale in 1951 and now is in its Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. It includes manuscripts of ''Dubliners,'' ''Chamber Music'' and the play ''Exiles,'' and a substantial collection of letters by, to and about Joyce. Mr. Slocum and Herbert Cahoon of the Morgan Library compiled and annotated ''A Bibliography of James Joyce,'' published by Yale University Press in 1953; it remains the standard Joyce bibliography.
        Mr. Slocum is survived by his wife, Eileen Gillespie Slocum; a son, John J. Jr., of Newport; two daughters, Beryl S. Powell of Newport and Marguerite S. Quinn of Newport and Washington; 11 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      