
        Judith Merril, one of the first female writers and editors to influence the direction of modern science fiction, died on Friday in Toronto, where she lived. She was 74.
        During and just after World War II, Ms. Merril was the only woman associated with a group of young science fiction enthusiasts known as the Futurians, whose members included Isaac Asimov, James Blish, C. M. Kornbluth and Frederick Pohl. She and Mr. Pohl were married in 1949 and divorced in 1953.
        At a time when science fiction was still dismissed as adolescent escapism by most academic critics, her first published story, in Astounding Science Fiction magazine in 1948, told of a mother's devotion to a baby horribly deformed by radiation-induced mutation. Her 1950 novel about nuclear war, ''Shadow on the Hearth,'' was adapted for television under the title ''Atomic Attack.''
        Ms. Merril, who was born Juliet Grossman in New York City, adopted the name Judith Merril early in her career. She had lived in Canada since 1968.
        She edited a well-received series of anthologies of the best science fiction from 1956 to 1970. In these collections she championed a self-consciously literary approach that became known in the mid-60's as the New Wave. By choosing stories from outside the usual magazines, she helped to broaden the horizons of science fiction writing. As part of her campaign to shift the focus away from scientific hardware, she fought a spirited if losing battle to redefine the genre as ''speculative fiction.''
        Her 1968 anthology ''England Swings SF'' introduced many American readers to the experimental fiction of writers like Brian Aldiss and J. G. Ballard. One puzzled reviewer noted that stories like Ballard's ''Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy Considered as a Downhill Motor Race'' were ''closer to the world of Kafka and William Burroughs than to Asimov and Bradbury.''
        Her donation to the Toronto Public Library of more than 50,000 books and periodicals formed the basis of the Merril Collection of Science Fiction, Speculation and Fantasy, one of the major research libraries in the field.
        Correction:  September 24, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary on Sept. 17 about Judith Merril, a science fiction writer and anthologist, misspelled the given name of her former husband. He is Frederik Pohl, not Frederick.
      