
        Georges Guetary, the French singing star best known to American audiences as Gene Kelly's rival for the affections of Leslie Caron in the Oscar-winning 1951 film ''An American in Paris,'' died on Saturday in a clinic in Mougins on the French Riviera. Mr. Guetary, who lived in Cannes, was 82.
        In ''An American in Paris,'' built around the music of George Gershwin, Mr. Guetary was the focus of attention in a spectacular scene in which he strutted up and down a majestic staircase singing ''I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise'' while flanked by willowy and scantily (but flamboyantly) clad showgirls; he shared the spotlight with Kelly in a rousing rendition of '' 'S Wonderful.''
        Although Mr. Guetary also performed on the London and Broadway stages, he achieved his greatest renown in France, where his career of nearly 60 years took off when he became the singing partner of the music hall queen Mistinguett at the Casino de Paris not long after making his first stage appearance in 1938.
        He was a fixture for nine years at the Chatelet operetta theater, appeared in more than a score of French films, starred on stage with the French comedian Bourvil in ''The Flowered Way,'' made records, sang and danced on television and gave some 40 gala performances a year until his retirement on the Riviera two years ago.
        Among his most popular recordings were ''Bambino,'' ''Papa Aime Maman'' and ''La Samba Bresilienne.''
        Mr. Guetary achieved acclaim on the English-speaking stage in London in 1947, when he was imported from Paris by the impresario C. B. Cochran to star with Lizbeth Webb in the operetta ''Bless the Bride'' at the Adelphi Theater. A light tenor, Mr. Guetary played the role of a handsome French actor who elopes with a young English girl on the day she was to marry someone else. The bride is parted from her husband by the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71 and believes him killed, but the lovers are reunited in time for the final curtain.
        Praise for Mr. Guetary's performance led to offers from Broadway. In 1950, he made his debut at the 46th Street Theater, starring with Nanette Fabray in ''Arms and the Girl,'' a Theater Guild musical set in the days of the American Revolution. After praising Miss Fabray, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times: ''The part of her foreign-born suitor is played by Georges Guetary, who can act a character and sing a song with gusto, and make stage love in the Continental style, which has obvious advantages.''
        In 1958, Mr. Guetary starred opposite Helen Gallagher in a poorly received musical, ''Portofino,'' at the Adelphi Theater, where Mr. Atkinson said he played ''the kissingest philanderer the season has produced.''
        Mr. Guetary was born Lambros Worlou, to Greek parents in 1915 in Alexandria, Egypt. He said that through the influence of an uncle, who was an accompanist to such violinists as Fritz Kreisler, Jascha Heifetz, Yehudi Menuhin and Nathan Milstein, he went to Paris in 1934 and studied music and voice. Humming a sung in the office of a concert organizer while on an errand for his teacher, he was asked to audition, he recounted, and left with a one-night singing contract that brought him to the attention of Mistinguett.
        Mr. Guetary became a French citizen in 1950. In 1942 he had changed his Greek name because German occupiers in wartime France were sending enemy nationals to concentration camps.
        In 1955, he married Jeanine Guyon, then the only female producer in French television.
        He is survived by his wife and two children.
      