
        Sabatino Moscati, an expert on Semitic languages whose work as an archeologist led him to champion the influence of Semitic peoples like the Phoenicians on the development of European culture, died at his home here on Monday. He was 74.
        Though known in scholarly circles for his excavations and learned studies of their results, he was also a popularizer, publishing numerous books and newspaper articles for a broad readership. In 1985, he founded Archeo, a popular archeological magazine.
        Born in Rome, Professor Moscati was educated here in Semitic languages, including Arabic and ancient Hebrew. He taught briefly in Florence and Naples before assuming the Chair of Semitic Philology at Rome University in 1954. He was later named professor of Hebrew and comparative Semitic languages.
        Beginning in the late 1940's, Professor Moscati was a regular contributor to several Italian encyclopedias. In 1948, in an effort to purge their pages of the effects of Fascism, he contributed articles on anti-Semitism and the Jews, in which he traced for Italians the history of the Holocaust, including the deportation to the death camps of the Jews from the ghetto of Rome.
        Though he was a master linguist, Professor Moscati's passion for archeology was aroused in 1957 when he was coaxed while visiting Israel into taking part in excavations to unearth the remains of a fortress of the kings of Judah at Ramat Rahel, near Jerusalem that dated from the 8th century B.C.
        Numerous excavations followed, largely to trace the powerful influence of the Phoenicians and the Punic cultures of North Africa from their Middle Eastern origins on the Lebanese coast to the western Mediterranean, leading Professor Moscati to say often that his life's work ''followed the path of the sun.''
        His work in Tunisia led to the discovery of a series of Phoenician forts in the area of Cape Bon. At Motya, an island off Sicily, a sanctuary of several thousand steles and statues was unearthed, testifying to the Phoenician influence in southern Italy; on Sardinia, the Phoenician city of Monte Sirai came to light under his direction. In all his work, the goal remained to raise from the dead the memory of a people whose influence stretched across the millennium from the Old Testament's Canaan to the Punic Wars between Rome and Carthage.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1988, Professor Moscati said that Phoenician culture ''is one that we must confront in order to understand ourselves.''
        He expressed his views in many books. His most widely read work, ''Ancient Semitic Civilizations,'' published originally in Italian in 1958, has gone through numerous reprintings and been translated into many languages.
        His interest in the Phoenicians led him to the peoples of Italy whose cultures preceded that of Rome, like the Etruscans, and through them to the Celts of northern Europe. To bring the results of recent research into the history and culture of these peoples to a broader public, Professor Moscati organized notable exhibits at Palazzo Grassi in Venice dedicated to the Phoenicians (1988) and the Celts (1991).
        His survivors include his wife Anna, and two daughters, Paola and Laura.
      