
        Canio Pavone, the founder of one of Sag Harbor's true institutions, Canio's Books, was reminiscing about how he came to learn Japanese, having already mastered his grandfather'ss native Italian at home, and French and Spanish in college, when the pounding on his store's door began.
        ''Please let me in,'' pleaded Arnold Gorlick, a tanned, silver-haired man in Bermuda shorts, his nose pressed against the store's glassdoor. ''I know you don't open for 10 minutes, but I must find a book.'' Mr. Pavone, sensing the customer's desperation, asked his guest'sforbearance to attend to a literary emergency? Mr. Pavone, known as Canio to most people in Sag Harbor, unlocked the door and asked how he could help.
        ''Do you have Wislawa Szymborska's 'View With a Grain of Sand,' in paperback?'' the stranger asked.
        Mr. Pavone pointed to a table stacked high with books of poetry by obscure and famous authors, among them numerous copies of the work by Wislawa Szymborska, the Polish poet who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1996. ''No problem,'' Mr. Pavone replied, permitting himself a tiny smile.
        ''I knew you would have it!'' exclaimed a visibly relieved Mr. Gorlick, a New Haven, Conn., resident and art cinema owner. ''Bookhampton didn't have it, and Encore Books had never even heard of her,'' he said, snapping up two copies of the verses, which he proudly gave to two friends who had trailed him into the store, an Italian guest who began chatting with Canio in Italian, and Meredith Nadler, a Sag Harbor resident who had introduced Mr. Gorlick to Canio's several years ago.
        Though the hand-painted sign on the door announces that Canio's is open between 11 A.M. and 7 P.M. every day, Mr. Pavone'ss hours are usually flexible enough to accommodate such literary crises. Alas, he says, they are becoming all too common given the endangered status of independent stores like his on Long Island and in New York City, indeed throughout the United States.
        Canio's does not sell coffee and is not a hangout for the chic, young, single set. Crowded from floor to ceiling with new and old books and what a sign proclaims as collectibles, Canio's is a real bookstore.
        ''I've survived because I've kept overhead low,'' Mr. Pavone said, lamenting that soaring rents have forced so many small independent booksellers to close and now threaten even the chain stores in the malls and other high-rent locations.
        Canio's reflects its owner's curiosity about everything from Asian art to flamenco dancing (which he taught for several years) as well as his passion for books. Mr. Pavone, 62, opened this store at the far end of Main Street with his own collection of overflow books in 1981 when most houses in the rundown village could be bought for less than $50,000. But he didn't abandon his house in Babylon and his teaching job in Harborfields High School in Greenlawn until 1990, after his threechildren were grown. Rather than move to New York City, he bought a house in the area. The rent then was $200.
        Though located out of the way, on Upper Main Street, far from the touristy center of town, the store has grown in popularity among the writers and readers who live in Sag Harbor. In 1981, Canio's became one of the first bookstores to offer readings by local writers. And in 1983, Mr. Pavone started what became a Labor Day tradition, , a marathon reading of ''Moby Dick,'' the Melville classic that was partly set in Sag Harbor. But Canio ended the marathon a decade later. ''It was getting too big for the shop,'' he said, ''and people were coming to hear the 'stars' read rather than to listen to the words of 'Moby Dick.' It was losing its original spirit.''
        Mr. Pavone, however, has hardly been idle. In early 1990 he started his own small press dedicated to publishing Long Island poets and writers. In 1991, Canio Editions published 2,000 copies of the first of its slender paperbacks, ''Powder and Echo,'' poems by Dan Giancola about the Revolutionary War on Long Island. The book is still selling, he said.
        Since then, Canio Editions has published 16 more books, ''little works of love,'' Mr. Pavone calls them. Most break even but some, like ''Simply Black,'' poems by Beverley Wiggins Wells, a local black feminist poet with a national following, have made a healthy profit.
        In 1995, Mr. Pavone found that he was running out of book space again. Rather than sell off some of his volumes at a steep discount or stop ordering new books, he opened another store on the pier near the village'ss Bay Street Theater.
        The other Canio's, which is run by Norha Barros, a Colombian-born artist whom Mr. Pavone met and married in 1960 while teaching Spanish in Medellin, specializes in the arts, especially in theater. ''Of course, opening a second small shop in the same small town didn't really make economic sense,'' he acknowledged. Maximizing profit, however, is hardly the point. What excites him, he says, is ''community,'' specifically the community of lovers of the word for whom his store remains a hub.
        On Saturday evening over the Labor Day weekend, more than 25 people crammed the tiny store to hear Peter Trachtenberg read from his moving new book, ''7 Tattoos.'' The audience ranged from well-known local writers like Frederic Tuten to a postal worker in Bridgehampton, a self-confessed book addict.
        Eager to prolong the experience, they peppered Mr. Trachtenberg with questions about his work. Their enthusiasm, Mr. Pavone said, was a reminder of why Sag Harbor has kept its integrity. ''Nothing stays the same,'' he said, turning out the store's lights, ''but if we're lucky, despite the East End's sudden wealth, we can preserve the village's spirit, which is, after all, what brought us here in the first place.''
      