
        Ernest J. Parham, whose riveting account of one of the century's most appalling racial atrocities prompted the Florida Legislature to provide the survivors a measure of compensation more than 70 years after the fact, died last Saturday at a hospital near his home in Orlando. He was 93.
        Even seven decades later it was fairly obvious that something had happened in the little town of Rosewood, Fla., in the first week of 1923. After all, when an angry mob of armed white men invades a black community, kills half a dozen of the 120 residents and chases the rest away -- burning the entire town to the ground to make sure they don't come back -- it is hard to imagine that someone will not remember.
        But more than half a century and a revolution in racial attitudes later, when the survivors told their stories to state legislators in a quest for compensation, there was a problem.
        There was nothing except their accounts to support their claim that state and county authorities had known about the attack and had done nothing to stop it.
        Since all the witnesses were black survivors with a vested interest, the Legislature, while generally sympathetic to their appeal, was reluctant to act on their word alone.
        Then historians from the University of Florida who were appointed to look into the matter were led to Mr. Parham, and what he had to say in 1994 turned the tide.
        Although he moved to Orlando in 1926 and operated a successful laundry there for many years, in 1923 Mr. Parham, then 18, was living and working at the company store in Sumner, Fla., a sawmill town 35 miles southwest of Gainesville and just three miles from Rosewood.
        As he told it under oath to a legislative hearing in 1994, when word got around on New Year's Day that a hunt was on for Jesse Hunter, a black man said to have escaped from a chain gang and to have raped a white woman in Sumner, Mr. Parham closed the store early and drove off to investigate.
        After meeting up with Clarence Williams, a deputy sheriff who lived at a hotel run by Mr. Parham's stepfather, Mr. Parham said he came upon a band of white men who had surrounded Sam Carter, a Rosewood man they believed had given Mr. Hunter a ride in his wagon.
        As the deputy hung back, Mr. Parham said, he watched as one of the white men repeatedly tightened a noose around Mr. Carter's neck, lifted him onto his toes and beat him in the chest, demanding that he tell where he had dropped Mr. Hunter off and warning that he would be killed if the dogs didn't pick up the scent at the spot he pointed out.
        ''The dogs did not pick up the trail, and they shot him,'' said Mr. Parham, who refused to identify the man out of consideration for his children.
        Mr. Carter was the first victim of what became known as the Rosewood Massacre, but although Mr. Parham was able to describe many of the later events, including the burning of Rosewood on Jan. 5, he was not a witness.
        Indeed, on the night of Jan. 4, when two white men trying to force their way into a Rosewood house were fatally shot by the black residents inside, touching off the vengeful raid that left the town in ashes the next night, Mr. Parham was snug inside his stepfather's hotel in Sumner, sitting in front of the lobby fireplace.
        Still, it was his account of what happened in the lobby that night that provided critical evidence the Legislature needed to establish that the authorities had known about the events in Rosewood and made no effort to intervene, justifying its decision to provide $2.1 million to compensate the handful of Rosewood survivors.
        Among those gathered around the hotel fireplace, Mr. Parham said, was the deputy sheriff, Clarence Williams.
        ''The fire started cracking,'' Mr. Parham testified, ''and Clarence Williams said, 'All hell is breaking loose in Rosewood.' ''
        Then, according to Mr. Parham, the deputy went to bed.
        ''We wondered,'' Mr. Parham added, ''why he would not have been up there as a law officer to take care of the situation.''
        Some wondered why Mr. Parham had waited so long to tell his story, but his answer only served to underscore the fact that the state authorities had not only failed to protect Rosewood residents from a marauding mob but also for 70 years had made no effort to seek justice for them.
        ''Nobody asked me,'' he said.
        Mr. Parham is survived by a daughter, Margaret Gandy of Tampa; a brother, Leslie of Tallahassee; five grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      