
        Abe Gibron, who left his mark on professional football as a player, coach, wisecracker and gourmand, died on Tuesday at home in Belleair, Fla. He turned 72 the day before and had been confined to home since strokes in December and February.
        Gibron played guard on offense and nose guard on defense. After graduation from Purdue, he played pro football from 1949 through 1959 -- one season with the Buffalo Bills of the old All-America Football Conference, seven with the Cleveland Browns, one with the Philadelphia Eagles and two with the Chicago Bears. Six of his seven Browns teams played in the National Football League championship game. He played in five Pro Bowls.
        He was an assistant coach for four years with the Washington Redskins and seven with the Bears. From 1972 to 1974, he was head coach of the Bears, but was dismissed after a three-year record of 11-30-1. In 1975, he was head coach of the Chicago Wind in the World Football league, and in 1976 he was an assistant with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
        His players enjoyed him for his football knowledge and salty honesty. Sportswriters enjoyed him for his sense of humor. At a Monday news conference, he would typically raise a shot of whiskey and say, ''All right, everything is on the record until this touches my lips, and the minute it touches my lips, everything is off the record.''
        He played at 5 feet 11 inches and 250 pounds, with unbelievable quickness. Later, with his love of eating, he weighed well over 300 pounds, and two teammates on the Browns told why. ''Every time you went to dinner,'' Lou Groza told The Chicago Tribune, ''it was a banquet.'' And as Dante Lavelli said, ''He used to eat until 2 o'clock in the morning.''
        Gibron is survived by his wife of 38 years, Susie; three children, William, Kahlil and Matina , three grandchildren and two sisters.
        When Gibron was scouting for the Seattle Seahawks in 1985, Sam Wyche, then coach of the Cincinnati Bengals, accused Chuck Knox, then Seattle's coach, of sending Gibron to steal sideline signals. Knox said he sent Gibron to scout, not spy.
        ''If we were to send a spy,'' Knox said, ''I would think we would be a little more discreet about it. We had to get Abe two seats in the press box. He took up two spaces. We got him two trays of food, so you could hardly say he was not noticeable.''
      