
        Walter Trampler, a violist who was a founding member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and who performed and recorded frequently with other chamber ensembles, died on Saturday at his home in Port Joli, Nova Scotia. He was 82 and lived in Port Joli and Manhattan.
        Mr. Trampler was one of a handful of violists to make a full-time career outside an orchestral viola section, and he used his prominence to campaign on his instrument's behalf, both by teaching and by commissioning and performing new works.
        Luciano Berio composed his ''Sequenza VI,'' ''Chemins II'' and ''Chemins III'' for him, and he gave the premieres of Hans Werner Henze's Viola Concerto and works by George Perle, Simon Bainbridge and Marc Neikrug. One of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's first commissions, Larry Austin's ''Walter,'' was composed for him.
        Mr. Trampler was born in Munich in 1915, and began his musical studies with his father, a violinist in the Munich opera orchestra. He also studied at the State Academy of Music in Munich, and he made his debut as a violinist as the soloist in the Beethoven Concerto in 1933.
        By then, however, Mr. Trampler was also working as a violist, both in the Strub String Quartet and as the principal violist of the Berlin Radio Orchestra. He made his debut as a viola soloist with that orchestra with a performance of the Mozart Sinfonia Concertante in 1935. He was also the viola soloist in the premiere of Wolfgang Fortner's ''Concertino'' in 1937.
        Mr. Trampler said that his career as a violist began almost by default.
        ''I can't say I immediately fell in love with the viola,'' he said in a 1977 interview in The New York Times. ''I began to play it because in Europe a violin student has to play viola as a second instrument. This is designed to provide violists for chamber music.''
        Mr. Trampler emigrated to the United States in 1939. He taught briefly in Florida, and then switched back to the violin to take a position in the Boston Symphony Orchestra. He also gave violin recitals in Boston in the early 1940's.
        In 1946, after two years in the Army Medical Corps, he joined the City Center Opera Orchestra in New York as principal violist.
        Mr. Trampler became prominent as a chamber music violist in 1947, when he formed the New Music Quartet with the violinists Matthew Raimondi and Broadus Earle and the cellist Claus Adam. The quartet played together until 1955.
        By then he was in demand as a freelance chamber player, and was a frequent guest of the Budapest String Quartet, the Guarneri Quartet and the Juilliard Quartet. He recorded the Mozart and Brahms quintets with the Budapest, and the Brahms Piano Quartets with the Beaux-Arts Trio.
        With the Juilliard, he recorded Schoenberg's ''Verklarte Nacht'' and the Brahms quintets and sextets. He also made several recordings as a member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, ofwhich he was a member for nearly 20 years. As a soloist, he recorded Berlioz's ''Harold in Italy'' and concertos by Mr. Bainbridge and Richard Wernick.
        Mr. Trampler taught the viola and chamber music at the Juilliard School, the Yale School of Music, Boston University and the New England Conservatory. He retired as a teacher 18 months ago.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; a son, Anthony, of Denver; a sister, Maja Trampler of Munich, three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      