
        Dr. Roger Olaf Egeberg, a blunt  Democrat who criticized the Nixon Administration while he was its chief health officer, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Olaf.
        Before Dr. Egeberg was named to the health post by President Richard Nixon, he had won widespread respect as a medical administrator in Los Angeles, where he was dean of the Medical School at the University of Southern California.
        He was the ranking health official from 1969 to 1971, as the assistant secretary for health and scientific affairs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
        Dr. Egeberg (pronounced EGG-uh-berg) won admiration within the department as an outspoken advocate of expanding the Government's role in solving the nation's health care problems. He fought for more money for medical programs and for more attention to health care by the White House.
        But in an interview in the spring of 1970, when he was seeking an additional $100 million to immediately expand the training of more doctors and nurses, he said that the Health, Education and Welfare Secretary, Robert H. Finch, and the department's Under Secretary, John C. Veneman, were not taking his advice on health matters and that Mr. Nixon's advisers openly ignored him.
        Health care was a subject Mr. Nixon had emphasized in his 1968 campaign, but Dr. Egeberg said in the interview that ''the White House just doesn't appreciate, doesn't know, what is going on in the health field.'' He added, ''I just can't get through to Ehrlichman,'' referring to John D. Ehrlichman, the President's chief aide for domestic matters.
        Dr. Egeberg also denied rumors at the time that he might step down, saying, ''I may be fired because of my words and actions, but I won't quit.''
        Officials of the department, including Mr. Finch, expressed dissatisfaction with Dr. Egeberg's managerial skills. In 1971, he left his post and became the Health Secretary's special assistant for health policy, from 1971 to 1977; special assistant for health education, in 1976 and 1977, and special consultant to the President for health affairs, from 1971 to 1977.
        He later worked as a professor at Georgetown University.
        Dr. Egeberg was born in Chicago to Hans Olaf Egeberg and the former Ulrikka Rostrup Nielsen. He received a bachelor's degree in 1925 from Cornell and his medical degree in 1929 from Northwestern University and became an internist. In World War II he was the personal physician for Gen. Douglas MacArthur, rose to the rank of colonel and won the Bronze Star and the Legion of Merit.
        Dr. Egeberg's writings include the book ''The General: MacArthur and the Man He Called 'Doc.' '' (1993, Oak Mountain).
        In addition to his son, Olaf, of Washington, his survivors include his wife of 68 years, the former Margaret McEchron Chahoon; and three daughters, Joan Hancock of Palo Alto, Calif., Sara McEre of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Karen Warmer of California.
      