
        Prof. Richard Skalak, a pioneer in bioengineering and biomechanics who taught at Columbia University in New York for more than 40 years, died on Aug. 17 at his home in San Diego. He was 74.
        The cause was melanoma, said a spokeswoman for the University of California at San Diego, where Dr. Skalak had been a professor of bioengineering since retiring from Columbia in 1988.
        ''In the fields of biomechanics and biomedical engineering, Dr. Skalak was there among the first,'' said Dr. Martin Yarmush, director of the Center for Engineering in Medicine at Harvard Medical School in Cambridge, Mass. ''His work set the standard for creativity and rigor.''
        Early in his career, Dr. Skalak was involved in traditional mechanical engineering fields like fluid turbulence and research associated with finding and extracting oil.
        But he is best known for research begun in the 1960's, when he turned his engineer's mind to biomedical problems. In that period he formed two professional relationships that would last throughout his life.
        While in Sweden on sabbatical from Columbia in 1967, Dr. Skalak and Dr. P. I. Branemark of the University of Goteborg collaborated on a pioneering study of how red blood cells flow in human tissue. They used the principles of mechanical engineering to describe the movement of red blood cells, and the resulting paper, ''Deformation of Red Blood Cells in Capillaries,'' appeared in the journal Science in 1969.
        Upon his return to Columbia in 1968, Dr. Skalak began a series of studies with Dr. Shu Chien, also of Columbia, that examined topics like the material properties of red blood cells and cell membranes, bone growth and how white blood cells move through the body in response to infections.
        The principles outlined in more than 200 research papers he wrote alone or with Dr. Chien, Dr. Branemark and others have been applied to research on cancer, sickle cell disease, hypertension, atherosclerosis and other diseases. He was also co-editor with Dr. Chien of ''The Handbook of Bioengineering'' (McGraw-Hill, 1989).
        Dr. Skalak worked with Dr. Branemark on the development of titanium dental implants, contributing to the mechanical design of the devices and helping to explain the biological interaction between the titanium implants and human bone and tissue. The knowledge uncovered in their studies of the bond between metal and bone has had wide application in skeletal reconstruction.
        Richard Skalak was born on Feb. 5, 1923, in New York City. After graduating from Peter Stuyvesant High School, he attended Columbia University, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1943, a professional degree in civil engineering in 1946 and a Ph.D. in civil engineering in 1954.
        Dr. Skalak was a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the New York Academy of Medicine, and he was president of the Society of Biomedical Engineering in 1983. He received the Theodore von Karman Medal from the American Society of Civil Engineers.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Anna; two brothers, Rudolph, of Wofford Heights, Calif., and Edwin, of East Orange, N.J.; three sisters, Lillian Squire of New Rochelle, N.Y., Rose Porras of Rockville, Md., and Blanche Hurwitz of Silver Spring, Md.; two daughters, Martha, of San Mateo, Calif., and Barbara, of Mountain View, Calif., and two sons, Steven, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Thomas, of Charlottesville, Va.
      