
        Aldo Rossi, the Italian architect known for works of monumental simplicity and power, died yesterday in Milan, where he lived. He was 66.
        His Manhattan office said he died as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident last week as he drove to his weekend home on the Lago Maggiore in northern Italy.
        Mr. Rossi, who won the Pritzker Prize, the highest award in his field, in 1990, was an architect's architect. His work combined unabashedly grand forms with the most reductive geometric shapes; it invoked the resonance of a recurring dream or the lyricism of a de Chirico painting.
        A cult figure among students, he lectured widely and spoke a richly accented English, as well as French and German. He has offices in New York City, the Hague and Tokyo as well as in Milan, where he directed a small staff in designing and constructing more than 100 buildings in Italy, Japan and around the world.
        His only building in the United States, completed in 1995, is an office complex for the Disney Development Corporation in Celebration, the Disney-sponsored town in central Florida. A much heralded 1986 design for the school of architecture at the University of Miami was not built because there were no funds for it. A more recent project is a 10-story building for the Scholastic Publishing Company to be built on Mercer Street in SoHo. It unanimously passed the New York City Landmarks Commission, and construction is to start next summer, said William Bretschger, a spokesman for Scholastic.
        Aldo Rossi was a poet of architecture who managed to tap into the universal essence of forms through his use of an intensely personal vocabulary. His signature gestures of the cone, the cylinder and the square endlessly recombined with colonnades, windows at unexpected scales and towers might have seemed coldly mechanical if it were not for his skill at manipulating the rhythms of shadows and light. When he was awarded the Pritzker Prize, the jury commented that Mr. Rossi's work was ''at once bold and ordinary, original without being novel.''
        Perhaps his most famous design is the 1971 Cemetery of San Cataldo in Modena, Italy, a seemingly endless colonnade with a gabled roof surrounding the simple cube of an ossuary. In a 1988 article for The New York Times, the architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable called the building unforgettable. ''Its spare surreal geometry invokes a haunting and timeless symbolism of death and the eternal with an extraordinary intensity,'' she wrote.
        Shortly before winning the commission to design the cemetery in 1971, Mr. Rossi was in an automobile accident that he later said was pivotal in his career as an architect who was obsessed with the combination of disparate parts.
        ''I saw the structure of the body as a series of fractures to be reassembled,'' he later wrote in ''A Scientific Autobiography,'' which was published in English in 1981.
        Mr. Rossi was born in Milan on May 3, 1931. In 1949 he entered the Milan Polytechnic, where he was attracted to both architecture and the new Italian cinema. In 1964 he became the editor of the influential Italian design magazine Casabella and published his theories of architecture to wide acclaim among architects in ''The Architecture of the City'' in 1966.
        While his reputation as a theoretician and a teacher was well established, he did not begin to build extensively until the 1980's, when his lyrical watercolors and whimsical sketches became highly collectible. In 1986 he opened a New York office with a former student, Morris Adjmi.
        While he was criticized by both modernists and post-modernists in turn for being either too much of a rationalist or too indebted to history, he eluded labels and remained true to ''an uncompromising sense of practicing his own craft'' said Karen Stein, the author with Mr. Adjmi of a 1991 monograph on Mr. Rossi.
        Mr. Rossi is survived by a son, Fausto, and a daughter, Vera.
        One of his recent significant buildings is the Hotel Il Palazzo in Fukuoka, Japan. The hotel, a solid block of amber-colored travertine sits atop a stepped stone base and has a facade of carved columns and lined with massive copper lintels but devoid of windows. Regarding the controversial absence of windows, Mr. Rossi invoked the E. M. Forester novel ''A Room with a View.''
        ''At the beginning of the novel, the view of Florence is very important,'' he said. ''But at the end, what is really important is the stay at the hotel, the love, the life of the hotel.''
      