
        Shirley Clarke, an Academy Award-winning filmmaker, a champion of independent filmmaking and a missionary for video as a force in communications, died on Tuesday at the Palliative Care Center of Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston. She was 77 and lived in Carlisle, Mass.
        Her sister Elaine Dundy, the novelist and biographer, said Miss Clarke entered the center, a hospice, after a stroke two weeks ago. She also suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
        As a filmmaker, Miss Clarke was probably best known for the three pictures she made between 1960 and 1963. ''The Connection,'' filmed in cinema verite style in 1960 and taken from Jack Gelber's Off Broadway play, was a frank study of drug addiction that was banned on grounds of obscenity by the motion picture division of the New York State Board of Regents.
        Her 1962 documentary, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' a portrait of the poet, won an Oscar.
        Her gritty 1963 film, ''The Cool World,'' adapted from a novel by Warren Miller and filmed on the streets of Harlem, tracked the life of a young man who rises briefly to the leadership of a juvenile gang.
        ''Right now,'' Miss Clarke said in 1962, ''I'm revolting against the conventions of movies. Who says a film has to cost a million dollars and be safe and innocuous enough to satisfy every 12-year-old in America?''
        In 1962 Miss Clarke and the filmmaker and critic Jonas Mekas founded the Film-Makers Cooperative, a nonprofit company for the distribution of independent films.
        ''There must be 40 or 50 others like me in the country, with a desire for self-expression and no urge to move to Hollywood and make soap opera,'' Miss Clarke said.
        ''We're creating a movie equivalent of Off Broadway, fresh and experimental and personal. The lovely thing is that I'm alive at just the time when I can do this.''
        In 1967, Miss Clarke attracted attention with the release of ''Portrait of Jason,'' filmed during a single 12-hour session in her Manhattan apartment. The documentary, shown at the New York Film Festival, was a 105-minute interview with a gay black male prostitute.
        ''The result, I'm convinced, is a portrait of a guy who is both a genius and a bore,'' she said.
        By the 1970's, Miss Clarke was turning to video. ''Videotape is going to teach Americans to play with each other,'' she said then. ''The fight of the 1980's will be the battle for access to communications media.''
        Released in 1986, her final movie, ''Ornette: Made in America,'' a portrait of the great modern jazz composer and saxophonist Ornette Coleman, mixed film and video.
        From 1975 to 1983, Miss Clarke was a professor of film at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        She came to her life in film and video after a career in dance. Her concern with movement led her to motion pictures, and among her earliest films were dance-related shorts. ''I became more interested in people than abstractions,'' she said.
        Reared in Manhattan and educated at the Lincoln School, Miss Clarke was the eldest of three daughters of the former Florence Rosenberg and Samuel N. Brimberg, a wealthy manufacturer.
        ''Daddy was of the school which felt that men didn't talk about important matters to women,'' Miss Clarke once said. ''I guess I always had an enormous need to show him I wasn't the dope he thought I was.''
        She said she attended seven different colleges without graduating. ''I studied anything as long as I could keep on dancing,'' she said.
        For several years, she studied and danced with Martha Graham and Hanya Holm and was 17 when she offered her first work as a choreographer.
        Her marriage in 1943 to Bert Clarke ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Dundy, who lives in Los Angeles, she is survived by another sister, Betty Lorwin of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Wendy, a video artist who also lives in Los Angeles.
        As Miss Clarke lay dying, she was visited in her hospital room by her daughter and a group of friends, all film and video makers, who sipped Champagne as they reminisced about her and her work and how it paved the way for the MTV generation.
        The next day, Ms. Dundy described the gathering to their sister Betty, who replied, ''It's so like a film Shirley would make.''
        Correction:  September 29, 1997, Monday
        An obituary on Friday about the filmmaker Shirley Clarke referred imprecisely to a documentary she directed. The film, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' won an Academy Award in 1963 not for her but for its producer, Robert Hughes.
      