
        Livio A. Beccaccio, an F.B.I. official who supervised the training of thousands of local police officers who later rose to leadership in their departments nationwide, was among 12 people killed in the crash of a United Nations helicopter in Bosnia on Sept. 17.
        He was 58 and lived on a farm in Spotsylvania, Va., next door to a former colleague at the F.B.I., David J. Kriskovich, whom he had joined on the United Nations mission to revive the local police force in Bosnia and who also was killed in the crash.
        ''It wasn't about politics for him,'' Mr. Beccaccio's son-in-law, James Lupton, said of the assignment in Bosnia. ''It was about helping people. He had a strong conviction that he could do something good.''
        Before Mr. Beccaccio's retirement from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1995, he held many positions there, starting as an agent in Tampa, Fla., San Francisco and Washington and going to the F.B.I. Academy in Quantico, Va. He was known to the trainees there as Al, an athletic man who even in middle age could best the younger men and women.
        Tom Colombell, a supervising special agent at the academy, said that in running and other athletic competitions: ''Al was very competitive. He showed a small amount of compassion, but only after he beat you.''
        Mr. Beccaccio was born in Newburgh, N.Y., and earned a bachelor's degree in criminology at Florida State University, where he played on the varsity football and baseball teams. He later earned master's degrees from the University of Oklahoma and American University.
        Mr. Colombell said that the academy program that Mr. Beccaccio headed provided training to 1,000 police officers a year and that the students who were selected were those who showed the promise of becoming future leaders. In fact, Mr. Colombell said, one in five of the participants went on to head their departments.
        Mr. Beccaccio is survived by his wife, Anne; a daughter, Lisa Lupton of Winchester, Va.; four sons, Albert J. of Herndon, Va., Edward, of Garrisonville, Va., Christopher, of Spotsylvania and John of, Heidelburg, Germany; two sisters, Alberta Britzke of Newburgh and Cathy Hensley of Stockbridge, Ga., and one grandchild.
        Mr. Colombell said Mr. Beccaccio was remembered for his way with a quick comeback.
        A typical class had 270 students, Mr. Colombell said, and one year an entire class decided to surprise him at graduation by suddenly putting on professionally made masks bearing Mr. Beccaccio's face.
        ''I've been here 15 years,'' Mr. Beccaccio said without pause, ''and I must tell you that this is the best-looking class that's ever come through this academy.''
      