
        The Most Rev. Joseph A. Francis, an auxiliary bishop of Newark for 19 years who was one of the first black priests in the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church to speak out against racism, died on Monday at the Claridge House, a home for retired priests in Verona, N.J. He was 73.
        The cause was heart failure, said Victoria Garcia, a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Newark. Bishop Francis, who had had several heart operations, had been using a treadmill before he died, she said.
        Bishop Francis, the fourth black Roman Catholic bishop in the country and the first to be assigned in the Northeast, called his appointment ''the second great challenge'' of his life. The first, in 1967, was founding the Verbum Dei High School in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles. He was the principal for six years, until he was appointed a provincial, or principal administrator, for the Southern Province of the Society of the Divine Word, a Catholic order that has its headquarters in Bay St. Louis, Miss. He was the first black priest to be named to that post.
        Bishop Francis was born on Sept. 30, 1923, in Lafayette, La. He attended St. Augustine Seminary in Bay St. Louis and St. Mary's Seminary in Techny, Ill. He was ordained in Bay St. Louis on Oct. 7, 1950. He later earned a master's degree at Catholic University in Washington.
        His appointment as Auxiliary Bishop to Archbishop Peter L. Gerety of Newark was announced by Pope Paul VI in 1976. Bishop Francis and Bishop Gerety had known each other since the 1950's, when Father Gerety established an interracial center in New Haven.
        Within the Archdiocese of Newark, Bishop Francis worked to decentralize authority and reach out to parishioners. Nationally, he was chairman of the bishops' subcommittee that wrote ''Brothers and Sisters to Us,'' a pastoral letter on racism that was completed in 1979.
        ''Very few institutions in our country have done less to combat racism than the church,'' he told a gathering of Catholics in Brooklyn the following year. He said he wanted to see ''just one seminary, just one Catholic organization, just one Catholic hospital take out an ad committing itself to eradicating racism within its own institution and then demonstrating this.''
        In an interview 10 years after the pastoral letter was issued, he said that while there had been an ''articulated Catholic response against racism,'' it was in words only.
        ''What is needed is action by the local churches,'' he said.
        Bishop Francis joined the board of Catholic Relief Services in 1979, and in 1985 was named chairman of the  National Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee for Liaison with the Conference of Major Superiors of Men. He also headed the Black Catholic Clergy Caucus in the 1970's.
        Bishop Francis, who retired in 1995, is survived by a brother, Dr. Norman C. Francis of New Orleans; three sisters, Mabel Bobb of Grand Coteau, La., Pauline Navarre of Lafayette, La., and Velma Boykin of St. Louis.
      