
        T. Emmet Clarie, the Federal judge who presided over the most complex criminal case in Connecticut history -- the six-year-long legal proceedings against Puerto Rican nationalists charged with stealing $7 million in 1983 -- died on Wednesday at Day Kimball hospital in Putnam, Conn. He was 84.
        The cause of death was viral pneumonia, according to Marylin Clarke, the judge's daughter.
        Judge Clarie, a former state legislator, was chairman of the Connecticut State Liquor Control Commission when he was appointed to the Federal bench by President Kennedy in 1961. Despite working in Hartford, the state capital, Judge Clarie continued to drive more than an hour from tiny Danielson, Conn., where he had a Colonial-style house on a hill surrounded by woods. ''He thought of himself as a small-town lawyer,'' said Peter C. Dorsey, who succeeded him to the Federal bench in 1982.
        Judge Clarie was known for his  dry wit. At the sentencing hearing of workers convicted of stealing gold, the defense lawyer argued for leniency, contending that their employer's  controls over the gold were lax. ''There isn't a single man in this room who could have resisted such temptation,'' thundered the defense lawyer. ''Well, counselor,'' said Judge Clarie, ''I know of at least one.''
        But Judge Clarie's best-known case came when he was 70 and already a senior United States District judge, a status that would have allowed him to retire or request a reduced caseload at full pay. He did not decline assignment to the politically explosive case in which the Federal Government indicted Puerto Rican nationalists accused of robbing a Wells Fargo depot in West Hartford of nearly $7.6 million, or more than half a ton of currency. At the time, it was considered the second-largest bank robbery in American history.
        Known as Los Macheteros, Spanish for the machete wielders, the bank robbers were accused of attempting to finance a terrorist campaign aimed at achieving independence for Puerto Rico. The defendants' lawyers included William Kunstler and Leonard Weinglass, who had defended many radical clients.
        The legal proceedings, presided over by Judge Clarie, quickly bogged down. Pretrial hearings, which normally take less than a day, lasted 18 months. The Government and defense lawyers' pleadings totaled more than 5,000, filling more than 300 large cardboard boxes. By 1989, of the 19 defendants indicted, including 3 fugitives never captured, one defendant's charges were dismissed, one was acquitted and the rest were convicted or had pleaded guilty.
        ''Despite being called a racist and other names, Judge Clarie never held anyone in contempt,'' said John A. Danaher, Judge Clarie's former clerk, who worked in the United States Attorney's office at the time. ''It showed what an experienced judge could do in a case with a huge amount of pressure.''
        Thomas Emmet Clarie was born on New Year's Day, 1913, to Thomas C. Clarie, a building contractor, and Kathryn Burns Clarie, in Goodyear, Conn. He graduated from Providence College in 1933. In 1937, the year before he graduated from the University of Connecticut Law School, he was elected to the Connecticut Legislature, where he became House minority leader in 1939.
        Two years ago, at the age of 82, he purchased a personal computer and a correspondence course on how to use it. Asked why, he replied with a smile, ''You don't want to die ignorant.''
        Judge Clarie was married to Gertrude Reynolds Clarie, who died in 1995. He is survived by Ms. Clarke of Old Lyme, Conn.; two sons, D'Arcy R. Clarie of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Thomas C. Clarie of Clinton, Conn., and nine grandchildren.
      