
        Red Skelton, a master of mime and clowning whose gentle humor captivated generations of Americans, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84.
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Skelton's radio comedy show rivaled such formidable competitors as Bob Hope and Fibber McGee and Molly. His popularity grew throughout the 1950's and 60's, when he had his own television show on CBS.
        Although it never ranked below the Top 20 in the ratings , CBS ordered it canceled in 1970, apparently because the network thought Mr. Skelton's vintage act -- replete with pratfalls, pungent one-liners and comic characterizations of everything from bumbling yokels to a couple of seagulls named Gertrude and Heathcliffe -- did not appeal to younger viewers. NBC briefly aired a half-hour version of Mr. Skelton's show from September 1970 to August 1971 when it too was cancelled it.
        But Mr. Skelton stuck with the material that made him a star. ''I'd rather have people say, 'Boy, he's hokey, isn't he?' '' he said, ''rather than, 'Who was the guy who told all those dirty jokes?' '' He did not approve of swearing: ''I don't think anybody should have to pay money at the box office to hear what they can read on restroom walls.''
        Each show concluded with his trademark line: ''Good night, and God bless.''
        Whether one saw Mr. Skelton in the 1950's or in the 1990's, his venerable sketches, like ''Guzzler's Gin,'' and characters -- Clem Kaddiddlehopper, a slow-witted hayseed; Freddie the Freeloader, a silent tramp;  the Mean Widdle Kid, an impish prankster; the inebriated Willie Lump-Lump, and the self-promoting San Fernando Red -- were still there.
        ''I'm not pulling the cat's tail, I'm just holding it,'' the delinquent child would say. ''The cat's doing the pulling!''
        His audiences always knew pretty much what the Mean Widdle Kid was going to do, but they would laugh uncontrollably when they actually saw Mr. Skelton perform his skits. Mr. Skelton thought they were right, and frequently, in the midst of his act, he would laugh uncontrollably at himself.
        Indeed, Mr. Skelton laughed easily and often at almost anything. Laughter overtook him so easily, he said, that he seldom went to funerals.
        One funeral he did attend, however, inspired a memorable and oft-quoted line. Although Harry Cohn,  the tycoon who ran Columbia Pictures, was much disliked, his funeral was attended by more than 2,000 mourners on a rainy March day in 1958. Mr. Skelton observed all this and cracked: ''It only proves what they always say -- give the public something they want to see and they'll come out for it.''
        Mr. Skelton was unwavering in his dedication to the patter he developed.
        ''People in hell,'' he once wondered aloud before an audience. ''Where do they tell people to go?''
        On television evangelists: ''I bought Oral Roberts's Christmas record album but I couldn't play it. The hole healed up.''
        On wives: ''Webster wouldn't have written his dictionary if it wasn't for his wife. She was always saying, 'What's that supposed to mean?' ''
        Mr. Skelton's fans felt he appealed to almost everybody with a heart. There were some who said he was too sentimental and not sophisticated enough, but to those who loved his clowning, he was peerless, able to evoke mirth and pathos instantly with his endlessly elastic face and the sad eyes of a beagle. With such gifts, and after so many years of making so many people laugh, he was not able to understand why CBS canceled his television show.
        ''My heart has been broken,'' he told an audience in Las Vegas after the cancellation. That blow was still in his thoughts when he accepted the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences at the Emmy Awards show in 1986.
        ''I want to thank you for sitting down,'' Skelton told an audience that had given him a standing ovation. ''I thought you were pulling a CBS and walking out on me.''
        As if to prove CBS and NBC wrong, he took to the college circuit and proved, by the strong bookings he enjoyed year after year, that young people liked him as much as their parents had. He never got another regular television show, but he refused to retire. ''I can't retire,'' he explained. ''I've got a government to support.''
        Clowns were always his fortune:  in his spare time he did paintings of clown faces that fetched $80,000 and more. He once estimated that he earned $2.5 million a year from lithographs.
        Richard Bernard (Red) Skelton was born on July 18, 1913, in Vincennes, Ind., the fourth son of Joseph and Ida Mae Skelton. His father, a clown with the Hagenbeck & Wallace Circus, died two months before Red was born.
        He began working early in life because the Skelton family was destitute. At the age of 7 he was a newspaper delivery boy and learned to ''sass the customers so that they bought papers to get rid'' of him.
        Nobody in particular encouraged him to be one, but from almost the beginning, he seemed to have whatever it is that makes a clown a clown. It was apparent when he was 10 and he tried out for a medicine show. He fell off the stage by accident, breaking several bottles of medicine. He drew titters and sensed he could make people laugh easily. He liked the idea that by doing such things, he could even earn his way.
        Taking pratfalls became a part of his early routine and he continued to use them well into his middle years, with the result that although his basic health was robust, the cartilage in both knees was shot. For 45 years he used a cane and leg braces.
        He liked clowning but he was drawn to other forms of acting, too. After the seventh grade, he dropped out of school and auditioned for dramatic roles. At one point he got a job with a stock company, but lost it because he made the audience laugh when they were supposed to take his lines seriously.
        By the time he was 14, the rusty-haired comic had already performed  in rural vaudeville shows and on Captain Happy's Showboat, ''The Cotton Blossom,'' which plied the waters of the Ohio and Missouri Rivers.
        In 1932 he was given a screen test and failed it. A few years later he made some comedy reels in New York, but they were never widely circulated. He got an important break in 1937 when he appeared on Rudy Vallee's radio show. People liked him even though they couldn't see him and Vallee invited him back.
        During the mid-1930's he invented a routine that he kept with him for much of his career. He had worked up a half-hour pantomime sketch for a run at Loew's Theater in Montreal that required him to consume 12 doughnuts in various poses. He did this for three shows a day and promptly gained 35 pounds.
        When Mickey Rooney, then a highly regarded child star, saw the doughnut act, he invited Mr. Skelton to consider the movies and put in a good word for him at MGM. As a result, Mr. Skelton was picked in 1937 as a supporting player in ''Having Wonderful Time,'' which starred Ginger Rogers and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. His screen credit was Richard Red Skelton. A year or so later, he appeared in a revue called ''Paris in Swing.'' The show was popular but lost money and closed quickly because of production costs.
        In 1941 he made two movies, ''The People vs. Dr. Kildare'' and ''Whistling in the Dark.'' The success of the latter led to his own radio show, ''Red Skelton's Scrapbook of Satire.''  The title of his 1943 film, ''I Dood It,''  came from a phrase he had invented for his characterization of the Mean Widdle Kid. That phrase swept the country.
        Other wartime movies in which Mr. Skelton appeared or starred included ''Thousands Cheer'' (1943) and ''Bathing Beauty'' (1944), in which he appeared opposite Esther Williams. That year, Mr. Skelton was inducted into the Army as a private, assigned first to field artillery then to an entertainment unit. In Italy he suffered what was described as a nervous breakdown but remained in the Army, entertaining troops in the United States until his discharge in 1945.
        He resumed his radio show after World War II and also continued making movies, among them ''The Show Off,'' ''Merton of the Movies,''  ''The Fuller Brush Man,'' ''Neptune's Daughter'' and ''Three Little Words.''
        Mr. Skelton's 1931 marriage to Edna Stillwell, a 15-year-old usher at a Kansas City burlesque house, ended in divorce in 1943. For several years thereafter she remained close to him as a joke writer and business manager. ''She brought me up from $50 a week to $7,500,'' he said.
        In 1945, Mr. Skelton married Georgia Maureen Davis, a photographer's model, and they had two children, Valentina and Richard. His son was about 8 when he was found to have leukemia. Mr. Skelton took him on a highly publicized global tour that included a visit to Pope Pius XII. Richard died in 1958. Mr. Skelton's second marriage ended in divorce in 1971. In the mid-70's, Georgia Skelton committed suicide.
        In 1989, Mr. Skelton was inducted into the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, Lothian, of Palm Springs, Calif.; his daughter, Valentina Alonso of San Francisco, and a granddaughter.
        ''I don't want to be called 'the greatest' or 'one of the greatest' -- let other guys claim to be the best,'' Mr. Skelton once said. ''I just want to be known as a clown, because to me that's the height of my profession. It means you can do everything -- sing, dance and above all, make people laugh.''
      