
        Richie Ashburn, the Hall of Fame center fielder who starred for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and concluded his career as the lone All-Star and designated quipster for the original Mets of 1962, died yesterday. He was 70.
        Ashburn, a broadcaster for the Phillies since retiring as a player, apparently had a heart attack in his room at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Manhattan, where the team was staying during its series with the Mets, the Phillies said. Harry Kalas, his broadcast partner, said Ashburn was found soon after calling a team official at about 5:30 A.M. to complain about feeling ill.
        Ashburn could not hit for power, and he did not have a strong arm, but he bedeviled pitchers and was a superb outfielder.
        Choking up on the bat, he would use his unimposing 5-foot-10-inch, 170-pound frame to slap the ball through the infield. When he was not delivering a single, he would be bunting his way on base or drawing a walk, then dashing off to steal second. And he was adept at extending an at-bat until he got the pitch he wanted, once fouling off 14 deliveries from Cincinnati's Corky Valentine before drawing a walk.
        He put his speed to good use in the outfield, getting to just about any ball in reach. Nine times he led the National League in putouts, tying a major league record.
        Ted Williams called Ashburn  ''putt-putt,'' saying he seemed to have twin motors in his pants.
        His light blond hair gave him an air of perpetual youth in his 15 major league seasons, which included 12 years with the Phillies, two years with the Chicago Cubs and then a final year with the Mets.
        Ashburn had a career batting average of .308, led the National League in batting in 1955 and 1958 and amassed 2,574 career hits and 234 stolen bases. He was named to the All-Star team five times. But he was overshadowed by the great center fielders of the 1950's -- Willie Mays, Duke Snider and Mickey Mantle -- and did not gain entry to Cooperstown until picked by the Veterans Committee in 1995.
        The son of a machine-shop owner, Ashburn was born and raised in Tilden, Neb., a town of about 1,000.
        He signed with the Phillies' organization in 1945 and made his major league debut in 1948, displacing Harry (the Hat) Walker, who had won the batting title the previous season. He hit .333 and led the league in stolen bases with 32 and was the Sporting News rookie of the year. Two years later, he teamed with a lineup that became known as the Whiz Kids: infielders Eddie Waitkus, Mike Goliat, Granny Hamner and Willie Jones; outfielders Del Ennis and Dick Sisler; catcher Andy Seminick, and pitchers Robin Roberts, Curt Simmons and Jim Konstanty.
        On the final day of the 1950 season, Ashburn preserved the Phils' first pennant in 35 years with a memorable play. In a game at Brooklyn, with the Dodgers hoping to force a playoff, he threw Cal Abrams out at the plate in the bottom of the ninth to keep the score tied at 1-1. Dick Sisler's three-run homer in the 10th brought a pennant for the youthful Phils, who were swept by the Yankees in the World Series.
        Ashburn was traded to the Cubs before the 1960 season, then was bought by the newly created Mets in December 1961 for a reported $100,000. Though an All-Star with a team that would lose 120 games, Ashburn never felt sorry for himself. Instead, he used his wit to endear the Mets to New York.
        Ashburn, who wore No. 1, had a locker next to the hapless first baseman Marv Throneberry, who wore No. 2. When the reporters came around to ask about Throneberry's latest mishap, Ashburn would call him ''marvelous.'' Thus was born the legend of Marvelous Marv.
        For a superb outfielder surrounded by a less-than-stellar cast, it was a trying time for Ashburn, especially when pop flies came down at the Polo Grounds. Ashburn had trouble communicating with the shortstop, the Venezuelan-born Elio Chacon, when the two converged on fly balls, so he asked the bilingual Joe Christopher how to say ''I got it'' in Spanish. Christopher told Ashburn, ''Yo lo tengo.'' The next game, Ashburn ran in for a pop-up, yelling, ''Yo lo tengo.'' Chacon backed off, but Ashburn had neglected to let left fielder Frank Thomas in on the dialogue. Thomas, who spoke no Spanish, promptly flattened Ashburn.
        Ashburn hit .306 for the Mets, and before embarking on a career as a broadcaster and a columnist for The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin and The Philadelphia Daily News, he was honored by the club.
        ''To be voted the most valuable player on the worst team in the history of major league baseball is a dubious honor, to be sure,'' he once observed. ''But I was awarded a 24-foot boat equipped with a galley and sleeping facilities for six. After the season ended, I docked the boat in Ocean City, N.J., and it sank.''
        Correction:  September 20, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary on Sept. 10 about Richie Ashburn, the Hall of Fame center fielder, omitted his survivors. They were his mother, Genevieve Warner Ashburn; his wife, Herberta; three daughters, Jean Ashburn, Sue Ann Morrison and Karen Hall; two sons, Richard and John; a brother, Robert; a sister, Bette Cram, and nine grandchildren.
      