
        Dr. Ernest Schwarcz, a dean emeritus at Queens College of City University who raised its continuing-education enrollment from dozens to thousands of older adults seeking degrees or just recharging their minds, died last Tuesday after being struck by a car near his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 76.
        He was struck at an intersection and died later that day at Mary Immaculate Hospital, the college said.
        Dr. Schwarcz retired as dean of the School of General Studies and professor of philosophy at the end of 1992. But he remained active on the campus as senior fellow of Jewish studies and recently traveled to Israel with Allen Lee Sessoms, president of Queens College, to discuss exchanges with several Israeli universities.
        Dr. Schwarcz was a founder of the college's Center for Jewish Studies and conducted a symposium in June on the chasm dividing Orthodox Jews from the Conservative and Reform branches. He planned to teach a Jewish Studies class on ethics this semester.
        Dr. Schwarcz fostered many innovative programs as dean, adding courses taught abroad, including some taught in China and Israel. The Continuing Education Division had an enrollment of 12 when he began to direct it, but the numbers have grown to about 10,000 students yearly, a result of the addition of course offerings in time to take advantage of the growth in interest in such programs nationally.
        At the Center for Jewish Studies, he was chairman of the Ethnic Studies Council and the Black-Jewish People to People Project. The project brought Jewish and black participants together at Queens College to discuss relations between their communities.
        A native of Hungary, Ernest Schwarcz graduated from the University of Budapest, from which he also received his Ph.D. and began to teach philosophy in 1948. He taught at the University of Vienna and the University of Melbourne, Australia, before joining Queens College in 1959 as a part-time lecturer.
        In the three decades that followed, he became an influential figure in the educational ground swell that attracted more and more people in their mid-20's and older to the nation's colleges.
        At Queens, he directed the Adult Collegiate Education program, one of the oldest adult degree programs in the country, which now enrolls 1,500 students every year.
        The college promoted him to professor of philosophy in 1970. He was the co-author of books on American education and the learning process and contributed frequently to professional journals on those subjects, as well as Jewish education, educational leadership and Plato.
        He is survived by his wife, Marta.
      