
        Sir Georg Solti, the vigorous and exacting Hungarian-born conductor who shaped the Chicago Symphony Orchestra into a gleaming virtuoso instrument during his 22 years as its music director, and who won more Grammy Awards than any other performer, classical or pop, died yesterday while visiting Antibes, in the south of France, reported Agence France-Presse. He was 84 and lived in London.
        Sir Georg had suffered a heart attack on Tuesday while vactioning with his wife, Valerie, and a daughter, Claudia, and died peacefully in his sleep last night, according to Mary Lou Falcone, his press representative in New York.
        In addition to his Chicago post, which he relinquished in 1991, Sir Georg was music director of the Royal Opera at Covent Garden for a decade starting in 1961, chief conductor of the Orchestre de Paris from 1970 to 1975, principal conductor of the London Philharmonic from 1979 to 1983 (later conductor emeritus) and director of the Salzburg Easter Festival starting in 1992. He was made a Knight Commander of the British Empire in 1972.
        On the podium, Sir Georg was full of energy and color. Of medium height, trim and bald, he tended to sweep into a big Romantic symphony with angular, slashing gestures that could be taken either as pure showmanship or as a way of drawing on an orchestra's full reserve of energy. On a few occasions he got so carried away during a performance that he injured himself with his baton. One of his biographers, William Barry Furlong, wrote in ''Season With Solti: A Year in the Life of the Chicago Symphony'' that at times the conductor ''looks like nothing so much as a spastic stork, bending and rearing convulsively, elbows pumping, knees popping, torso laboring until it seems almost as if he is going to tear the music from himself in a Dionysian frenzy.''
        Some critics and listeners found Sir Georg's kinetic approach mesmerizing; others found it graceless. But there was no doubt that it communicated his musical vision to the orchestras he conducted.
        As a guest conductor he worked with virtually all the world's major orchestras and opera companies.  Starting in the 1970's, he occasionally took on a teaching project, including master classes at the Juilliard School, conducting workshops in Chicago and a workshop for young orchestral musicians from all over the United States at Carnegie Hall in 1994. He also began a concert series in London in 1995, in which he underwrote the costs of Wigmore Hall debut recitals for young musicians.
        On the Value Of Recordings
        Sir Georg was the very model of a modern conductor. He knew that recordings were essential, and in the studio he was efficient enough to turn out hundreds of them and artful enough to keep a grip on listeners' attention, even in the most frequently recorded repertory. His landmark recording of Wagner's ''Ring des Nibelungen'' was not only the first integral studio recording of the cycle, but was also an audio spectacular that set the standard for the use of effects and spatial placement.
        More than many of his colleagues, Sir Georg insisted that the precision and bright coloration that could be achieved in the recording studio could be duplicated in the concert hall. Particularly during his Chicago years, he prized a sizzling brass sound and a rich string tone that could be thrilling in Bruckner and Mahler, and that also served him well in Beethoven and Mozart.
        ''The central feature of the Solti-Chicago success,'' wrote James R. Oestreich in The New York Times in 1991, just before Sir Georg's final concerts as music director of the Chicago Symphony, ''was the sheer stunning quality of the playing, which few other groups could rival. For many listeners, there suddenly seemed something new under the sun: an orchestra that could grasp those huge, complex works whole and, with remarkably sustained virtuosity and power, render them as gleaming monolithic unities, seemingly perfect in every detail and cumulatively overwhelming.''
        Georg Solti was born in Budapest on Oct. 21, 1912. He began studying the piano when he was 6 years old, and at 13 enrolled at the Liszt Academy, where he studied with the most famous Hungarian composers and pianists of the early 20th century. Among his teachers were Bela Bartok, Zoltan Kodaly and Ernst von Dohnanyi. ''I have had a lot of luck in my life, and one of the luckiest things that happened to me was to be born in a town that had the most beautiful and the best music academy in the world,'' Sir Georg told an interviewer in 1987. ''We, the students, had to play in front of the entire class, who sat and listened to the teacher's corrections. It was both cruel and wonderful at the same time.''
        The urge to conduct came to him in his early teen-age years, when he began learning the opera repertory in order to accompany his older sister, a soprano, in recitals. Hearing performances by the conductor Erich Kleiber strengthened his resolve, and soon after his graduation from the Liszt Academy, in 1930, he became a rehearsal pianist and a harpsichord and glockenspiel player at the Budapest Opera.
        He continued to work in Budapest until 1939, but in 1937 he received a grant for further study at the Salzburg Festival, where he worked as an assistant to Arturo Toscanini in rehearsals of Wagner's ''Meistersinger,'' Mozart's ''Zauberflote'' and Beethoven's ''Fidelio.'' When Toscanini invited him back for the 1938 festival, critics in Budapest began to take notice of him, and argued that he should be given a chance to conduct there. An orchestral debut with the Hungarian Orchestra was praised for its energy, and on March 11, 1938, Sir Georg was given his break: he conducted Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro,'' without a rehearsal. But it was the day of the Anschluss, and historical events overshadowed musical ones.
        ''That was quite a night,'' Sir Georg later said. ''All my friends left at intermission. The news came through that Hitler had marched into Vienna, and everyone ran home thinking he was going to continue the march to Budapest. This was a damp ending to my debut. There was not even a celebration after the performance.''
        By 1939, Sir Georg, who was Jewish and had already fought anti-Semitism at the opera house, realized that he had no future in Hungary. He moved to Switzerland, where he settled after a failed attempt to obtain a visa for the United States. He won first prize at the Geneva International Piano Competition in 1942, and made his way through the war years as a pianist. He also developed an eye for opportunities. In 1945, Sir Georg learned that Edward Kilenyi, a friend from Budapest who had emigrated to the United States and joined the American Army, was helping to reconstruct musical life in Munich. He wrote to Kilenyi to offer his services, and Kilenyi helped secure a performance of ''Fidelio'' for him at the Bavarian State Opera in Munich. In 1946 Sir Georg was appointed music director of that company. Over the next six years, he conducted 40 operas there and restored the company's reputation. He left Munich in 1952 to become general music director of the city of Frankfurt, a position that involved overseeing both orchestral and operatic performances.
        As a Pianist And Keyboardist
        Sir Georg began a long relationship with Decca/London Records the same year he began conducting in Munich. He had made some earlier recordings, as a pianist on a set of Schubert songs and playing Papageno's glockenspiel on the recording of a 1937 Toscanini performance of ''Die Zauberflote'' in Salzburg. And at Decca, too, he began as a keyboardist, accompanying Georg Kulenkampff in violin sonatas by Beethoven, Brahms and Mozart.
        Sir Georg made his first full-length symphony recording (Haydn's 103d) during a visit to London in 1949. That year he started his long relationship with the London Philharmonic, and began touring extensively in Europe and South America. He made his United States debut conducting Strauss's ''Elektra'' at the San Francisco Opera in 1953. His Chicago Symphony debut followed the next year, and in 1956 he made his first appearance at the Lyric Opera of Chicago, conducting Wagner's ''Walkure.'' In 1960 he made his Metropolitan Opera debut with Wagner's ''Tannhauser,'' and conducted there for four seasons before withdrawing after a dispute over casting.
        In 1960, Sir Georg found himself juggling two offers. One was the directorship of the Royal Opera at Covent Garden, where he had made his debut a year earlier. The other was the directorship of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. Sir Georg's first inclination was to take Los Angeles. But negotiations there began to unravel when the orchestra appointed Zubin Mehta co-director, apparently without consulting Sir Georg.
        He took the Royal Opera, declaring that he would make it the finest opera house in the world. Although there was debate about whether he succeeded, even Sir Georg's critics conceded that he raised the standard of the company's orchestral playing considerably. He was, however, regarded as excessively autocratic and was nicknamed ''the Prussian of Covent Garden'' by the British press.
        ''It took a while for the English to understand that I wasn't commanding people, but rather encouraging them to seek improvement,'' he said. ''Initially they found this very strange.''
        During his decade at Covent Garden, Sir Georg gave the British premiere of Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aron'' (a work he later recorded) and the first Covent Garden productions of Strauss's ''Frau ohne Schatten,'' the Wagner ''Ring'' and Britten's ''Billy Budd'' and ''Midsummer Night's Dream.'' Sir Georg was also hitting his stride in the recording studio. He won his first Grammy Award in 1962 for an ''Aida'' with Leontyne Price, and 29 more Grammys followed, the most recent in 1992. At the time he was nearing the completion of his ''Ring'' cycle, with an extraordinary cast that included Birgit Nilsson, Kirsten Flagstad, Regine Crespin, Wolfgang Windgassen, Set Svanholm, James King, George London, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Hans Hotter. Working with the producer John Culshaw, who wrote a book about the project, Sir Georg began the recordings in 1958 and completed them in 1965.
        Sir Georg was much honored. In addition to his British knighthood, he was awarded the Knight Commander's Cross with Badge and Star of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1986.
        Besides his wife and daughter, Sir Georg is survived by another daughter, Gabrielle.
        At the end of the 1960's, Sir Georg began to consider limiting his activities to a handful of close relationships. Taking on the directorship of the Chicago Symphony in 1969 and the Orchestre de Paris in 1970, he announced that he planned to divide his year equally between London, Chicago, Paris and his vacation villa in Italy. It did not quite work out that way. From the start, his sessions with the Paris orchestra were combative, and he began devoting himself increasingly to Chicago, where relations were warmer. The Chicago Symphony had long been one of the finest orchestras in the United States, and was particularly admired during the 10-year directorship of Fritz Reiner, who died in 1963. But the orchestra had lost some of its sheen under Reiner's successor, Jean Martinon, and Sir Georg's mandate was to restore it.
        Within a few seasons he developed the gleaming sound that became associated with the orchestra during his tenure. By the mid-1970's, the orchestra's seasons were invariably sold out before opening night, and its annual visits to New York were among the season's hottest tickets.
        With the Chicago Symphony, Sir Georg recorded the core works of the Romantic canon: symphonies by Beethoven, Brahms, Mozart, Tchaikovsky, Mahler, Mendelssohn and Berlioz, oratorios by Handel and Haydn and tone poems and ballets by Debussy and Stravinsky. He conducted contemporary works, including Hans Werner Henze's ''Heliogabalus Imperator,'' Sir Michael Tippett's ''Byzantium'' and Fourth Symphony, Lutoslawski's Third Symphony, Ellen Taaffe Zwilich's Trombone Concerto and David Del Tredici's ''Final Alice'' (which he commissioned and recorded).
        Still, his interest was largely in the classics. ''For me as a conductor, modern music stops around 1950, with late Stravinsky, Schoenberg and Bartok,'' he said in 1973. ''I don't go much farther. I leave it to the next generation to explore after 1950.''
        Maestro of Many Modes
        Sir Georg Solti left a huge discography that embraces the major works of the operatic and symphonic canon. Here is a selection of some of his best-known recordings. All are on the London Records label, and available on CD.
        Bartok Concerto for Orchestra, Dance Suite; Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
        Beethoven Symphony No. 7; Chicago Symphony.
        Brahms ''Ein Deutsches Requiem,'' with Kiri Te Kanawa and Bernd Weikl; Chicago Symphony.
        Bruckner Symphony No. 4; Chicago Symphony.
        Mahler Symphony No. 5; Chicago Symphony.
        Verdi ''Aida,'' with Leontyne Price, Rita Gorr, Jon Vickers, Robert Merrill; Rome Opera Orchestra.
        Verdi Requiem, with Joan Sutherland, Marilyn Horne, Luciano Pavarotti, Martti Talvela; Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra.
        Wagner ''Der Ring des Nibelungen,'' with Birgit Nilsson, Kirsten Flagstad, Regine Crespin, Wolfgang Windgassen, Set Svanholm, James King, George London, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Hans Hotter; Vienna Philharmonic.
        Correction:  September 8, 1997, Monday
        A front-page picture caption on Saturday with the obituary of the conductor who shaped the Chicago Symphony Orchestra misspelled his given name. He was Sir Georg Solti, not George.
      