
        William N. Oatis, an Associated Press correspondent in Prague whose name entered cold war history when the Czechoslovak Communist Government forced him to confess falsely to espionage and held him prisoner from 1951 to 1953, died yesterday in Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died after a long illness, said  The Associated Press, which made him a correspondent in its United Nations bureau from 1953 until he retired in 1984.
        Mr. Oatis was wire service's Prague bureau chief when he was arrested there in May 1951, three years after Communists gained full control of the Government. His case became a cause celebre of the cold war's early years. He was subjected to a show trial, convicted by a Communist court and sentenced to 10 years in prison.
        After he was freed, Mr. Oatis wrote that he had been forced to make his confession by being kept sleepless more than 40 hours and by psychological pressures and other abuses.
        ''On the first day I admitted that I had done unofficial reporting, which I had,'' he wrote. ''Within three days I confessed that this was espionage, which by any Western standard it was not; and within seven days I confessed that I had spied for the U.S. Government, which was a lie.''
        Edward Taborsky, a Czechoslovak emigre and professor at the University of Texas, wrote in his 1961 book, ''Communism in Czechoslovakia: 1948-1960,'' ''As documented in the case of W. N. Oatis, trumped-up charges were brought against 'spies and saboteurs' and other 'foreign agents'; and their trials were so arranged as to yield a maximum of anti-Western propaganda.''
        The case set in motion economic and other countermoves by the United States. The State Department called the trial an absurd travesty. The Voice of America trumpeted Mr. Oatis as ''the first American martyr to press freedom behind the Iron Curtain.'' In the 12 months after his conviction, Czech exports to the United States dwindled spectacularly, to about $200,000 a month from more than $2,000,000.
        Eventually, President Dwight D. Eisenhower wrote an irate letter to the Czechoslovak Government on Mr. Oatis's behalf, and in May 1953 he was pardoned and set free. The Czechoslovak Government said its leniency was prompted by a moving appeal from Mr. Oatis's wife, Laurabelle.
        ''My father was always convinced that the reason he was released was that Stalin had died not long before, and that led to a little thaw,'' said Mr. Oatis's son Jonathan.
        Years later, Mr. Oatis was exonorated by a Czechoslovak judicial review, but that action was rescinded in 1968 after the Soviet crackdown in Czechoslovakia. Eventually, in 1990, he was exonerated again.
        He was born in Marion, Ind., attended DePauw University and was a reporter for the Marion Leader-Tribune. He joined The Associated Press in 1937 and remained on its staff -- with time out in the 1940's for World War II Army service and further studies -- until he retired.
        In addition to his son Jonathan of Brooklyn and his wife of 47 years, the former Laurabelle Zack, Mr. Oatis is survived by another son, Jeremy of Rocky Point, L.I.; and three grandchildren.
      