
        Jimmy Witherspoon, one of the great postwar blues singers and a figure who naturally bridged the worlds of blues and jazz, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74.
        He died in his sleep, said Michael James, his booking agent.
        Mr. Witherspoon (nicknamed Spoon) was born in 1923, in Gurdon, Ark., where he grew up singing in the choir of the First Baptist Church. He ran away from home in the mid-1930's to work in Los Angeles, and from 1941 to 1943 was in the merchant marine. His first break came during that time, sitting in with Teddy Weatherford's jazz band on an Armed Forces Radio broadcast from Calcutta, India.
        Returning in 1944 to San Francisco, where his mother then lived, he replaced Walter Brown in Jay McShann's band during the group's stay in Vallejo, Calif. He toured and recorded with Mr. McShann for four years, forming his emotional and sophisticated singing style: a layering of fine jazz rhythms over gospel inflections in a deep, wide mellow baritone.
        But he was not widely known until his first hit record under his own name, a version of ''Ain't Nobody's Business,'' made in 1949, with Mr. McShann playing piano. It became a No. 1 hit on the rhythm-and-blues charts for 34 weeks. Though he later told the writer Arnold Shaw that he was paid a flat fee and made no royalties from it, the song made his career and led to a series of hits through the mid-50's.
        His popularity came, however, just at the advent of rock-and-roll, and that bad timing would profoundly affect his future. To the new rock-and-roll audience, his stature was quickly forgotten. He turned more and more to jazz, recording for many labels through the 50's, including Atlantic Records, for whom he made an album in 1956 with the Wilbur de Paris New Orleans Jazz Band.
        But his comeback performance at the 1959 Monterey Jazz Festival, in an all-star group including Ben Webster, Coleman Hawkins and Earl Hines, changed things. He was a valuable property again, touring with Count Basie's and Buck Clayton's jazz groups. He performed with organists like Jack McDuff and Richard (Groove) Holmes and took part in the late-60's blues revival, accompanied by white blues-rock musicians.
        During the 60's, he also made recordings with the jazz trumpeter Harry (Sweets) Edison, the singer Jon Hendricks and the baritone saxophonist Gerry Mulligan.
        Like his idol, Big Joe Turner, as well as Jimmy Rushing and Eddie (Cleanhead) Vinson, Mr. Witherspoon was a singer who had shared citizenship in the worlds of blues and jazz. ''They call me an R & B singer,'' he told Mr. Shaw. ''I'm a singer! I can sing ballads; I can sing church; I can sing Dixieland.''
        Despite health problems, including throat cancer, which was operated on in the mid-80's, Mr. Witherspoon persisted. He often worked with the guitarist Robben Ford and showed up as a guest singer at several Van Morrison concerts during the last five years; his voice had only a trace of its former glory. His final concerts were in mid-July at Yoshi's, a nightclub in Oakland, Calif.
        He is survived by his wife, Diana, of Sacramento, Calif.; his sister, Jimmie-Lois Witherspoon of Los Angeles; his brother, Leonard, of San Francisco; three children, Angela Witherspoon-Ballard, Regina Witherspoon-Welch, and James Witherspoon Jr., all of Sacramento, and four grandchildren.
      