
        Edward Wyllis Scripps, a newspaper executive and philanthropist who built a publishing company independent of his family's newspaper empire, died on Sept. 4 at his farm in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88.
        Mr. Scripps was the chairman and president of the Scripps League Newspapers from 1931 to 1996. According to Jack Morgan, the former vice president of the newspaper chain, it was started in 1921 by Josephine Scripps, Mr. Scripps's mother.
        When Mr. Scripps became president in 1931, there were eight newspapers. He built the chain to 51 publications, mostly small newspapers like The Daily Herald of Provo, Utah; The Napa Valley Register of Napa, Calif.; The Newport Daily Express of Newport, Vt., and The Hanford Sentinel of Hanford, Calif. It also included The Arizona Daily Sun of Flagstaff, Ariz.
        Scripps League Newspapers was bought by the Pulitzer Publishing Company in 1996.
        Born in San Diego, Mr. Scripps was the grandson of Edward Wyllis Scripps, the founder of the Scripps-Howard Newspaper empire and United Press International. He  served on the board of the Inter-American Press Association and was a president of its technical center, from 1955 until 1970.
        In 1984, Mr. Scripps and his wife, Betty, established the Edward W. and Betty Knight Scripps Foundation. Among the organizations it has supported are the American Red Cross; the Thomas Jefferson Foundation; the Santa Fe Opera; the Mayo Clinic, and the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation in La Jolla, Calif.
        In 1994, Mr. Scripps and his wife established the Edward W. and Betty Knight Scripps Professorship of Medicine at the Mayo Foundation in Rochester, Minn.
        Mr. Scripps attended Pomona College and married Betty Jeanne Knight McDonnell on Jan. 30, 1950. In addition to his wife, Mr. Scripps is survived by two sons, Edward Wyllis Scripps 3d of Los Altos, Calif., and Barry Howard Scripps of San Diego; a daughter, Stephanie Anne Scripps of Seattle; a sister, Ellen Scripps Davis of San Diego, and seven grandchildren.
      