
        Sheik Abdullah al-TarikiSheik Abdullah al-Tariki, Saudi Arabia's first oil minister and a founder of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, died on Sept. 7 at the age of 80.
        His death was announced Wednesday by the Saudi Embassy in Cairo, which said that Sheik Tariki had died there of a heart attack.
        He served as Saudi Arabia's oil minister from 1960 until his removal in 1962 over political disputes with the increasingly powerful Crown Prince Faisal.
        The low-key announcement last week of his death, as well as his relative obscurity in recent years, were a result of differences with the Saudi monarchy and its American friends. They contrast sharply with the fame and longevity in office of his successors, Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani and Hisham Nazir, both of whom stayed on the job for nearly 15 years.
        Born in the Saudi town of Zilfi, Sheik Tariki received his early education in Kuwait and Cairo.
        After graduating from the University of Texas with a degree in petroleum engineering in the 1940's, he went to work in the Saudi Arabian Finance Ministry.
        He was an early critic of Aramco, the American consortium of four giant oil companies -- Chevron, Texaco, Exxon and Mobil or their predecessors -- that ran the Saudi oil industry from their headquarters in the eastern city of Dhahran. He contended that it was unfair to allow American companies to explore, pump and sell Saudi oil with minimal consultations with the Saudis. He also contended that the companies paid Saudi Arabia royalties far below the value of the commodity they controlled.
        Sheik Tariki found allies in Venezuela, Iraq and Libya, which also maintained that oil companies exploited their wealth, and his thinking shaped the moves that led to the creation of OPEC in 1960, three months before his appointment as Saudi oil minister.
        He continued to denounce the way that the Americans' profit-sharing payments to the Saudis were worked out. Sheik Tariki maintained that the OPEC producing nations were getting less than their fair share of the financial returns.
        His persistent criticism of the Americans, and implicitly of his Saudi superiors, irked both. This was compounded by his seeming alliance with Egypt's revolutionary leader, Gamal Abdel Nasser, who was locked in a bitter political dispute with Faisal and who advocated the nationalization of the oil industry by the producing countries.
        After his dismissal, Sheik Tariki went into a long period of silence, maintaining low visibility and eventually going into exile in Europe and elsewhere in the Middle East until he settled in Cairo for the last decade.
        He only spoke in private of his bitterness, never complaining in public. In return, he was permitted in his later years to work as an oil consultant. It is believed that he was indirectly paid by the Saudi Government though he was allowed no significant input on policy making.
        Sheik Tariki's body was taken to Saudi Arabia for burial.
      