
        George L. Hinman, a longtime political adviser to Nelson A. Rockefeller who was also a Republican national committeeman for two decades, died on Sunday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 91.
        He had been in declining health in recent months, said a grandson, Robert H. Getz.
        Mr. Hinman, a Harvard-trained lawyer known for his political expertise, first worked with Rockefeller in 1956 and later became profoundly involved in Rockefeller's political activities.
        He was an important aide to Rockefeller during his four terms as Governor of New York, from 1959 to 1973, and his years as Vice President, from 1974 to 1977, under President Gerald R. Ford. In addition, Mr. Hinman assisted Rockefeller during his unsuccessful campaigns for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1960, 1964 and 1968.
        In 1977, when Rockefeller withdrew from active politics and Mr. Hinman resigned from the Republican National Committee, Mr. Hinman became one of Rockefeller's two or three closest advisers.
        He was supposed to have been Rockefeller's ''Jim Farley,'' playing the same role that James Aloysius Farley, the Democratic political leader, had played in 1932 when he pushed for the nomination of Franklin D. Roosevelt for President, setting the stage for Roosevelt's election to his first term. But Mr. Hinman's efforts on Rockefeller's behalf were not victorious.
        Mr. Hinman's resignation from the national committee in 1977 was seen as a development that underscored Rockefeller's withdrawal from political life after the inauguration of President Jimmy Carter.
        Mr. Hinman was on the national committee from 1959 to 1977, and for most of that time he was on the panel's executive committee. He was a delegate at large from New York State to the Republican national conventions of 1960, 1964 and 1976.
        From 1960 to 1977, he bore the title of special counsel, Rockefeller Family & Associates, and was a lawyer for the far-flung business interests of  Rockefeller and others.
        He was already known for his political savvy when he came to Nelson Rockefeller's attention in 1956. In that year he was named counsel to the Temporary State Commission to Prepare for a Constitutional Convention. The commission was headed by  Rockefeller.
        In 1958, Mr. Hinman was chosen by  Rockefeller, then Governor-elect, to be his executive assistant on a temporary and personal basis, and he held that post until 1959.
        He also served over the years on a variety of boards, including the State Board of Regents and the boards of the State University of New York, Colgate University, the I.B.M. World Trade Corporation, the International Business Machines Corporation, the New York Telephone Company and the Edward John Noble Foundation.
        A native of Binghamton, he received a bachelor's degree in 1927 from Princeton and a law degree from Harvard in 1930.
        Later that year he went to work for the Binghamton law firm of Hinman, Howard & Kattell. He became a partner and later head of the firm, and he was associated with it at the time of his death. His father, Harvey D. Hinman, who was a State Assemblyman and an unsuccessful Republican candidate for Governor, was also prominent in the firm.
        George Hinman's wife, the former  Barbara Davidge, died several years ago after 60 years of marriage.
        He is survived by two daughters, Martha Vaughn of Princeton, N.J., and Virginia Cummings of Quechee, Vt.; a son, Harvey D. Hinman 2d of Atherton, Calif.; 11 other grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      