
        Camille Henry, whose frail physical stature and artistry with a stick made him one of New York's most beloved hockey players in the 1950's and 60's, died in Quebec on Thursday. He was 64.
        The cause of death was diabetes, The Associated Press reported. Henry had been admitted to St. Francois d'Assises hospital on July 22, The Associated Press said.
        Henry, whose slippery moves near the net earned him the nickname Camille the Eel, played in 727 games over 14 National Hockey League seasons, from 1953-54 to 1969-70, including parts of 12 seasons with the Rangers. He scored 279 goals and had 249 assists for 528 points and amassed only 88 penalty minutes. He also played for the Chicago Blackhawks and the St. Louis Blues.
        The diminutive left wing was listed at anywhere from 5 feet 8 inches to 5 feet 10 inches and weighing between 148 and 152 pounds.
        ''If that was so, I think he must have had some bricks in his pants when they weighed him,'' Andy Bathgate, Henry's longtime teammate and legendary Rangers captain, said yesterday.
        When Emile Francis became the Rangers' coach on Dec. 5, 1965, he had his players weigh in at training camp. Francis said Henry asked him not to post his weight for fear of embarrassment. The actual figures: 5 feet 7 inches and 138 pounds.
        ''And I never put his weight on that chart once,'' Francis said. ''If I would have, they would have said this guy should be a jockey or something. We used to measure them for body fat, too. Well, he didn't have any.''
        Henry did have heart, desire, determination, a deadly wrist shot and an uncanny ability to deflect pucks from in front of the net past goaltenders, all of which made him a huge favorite with Rangers fans.
        ''He had a big influence on me when I first came to New York in 1960,'' Vic Hadfield, another former Ranger star, said. ''Cammy wasn't a very big man. But he certainly played like a big man. And he had the heart of a big man.''
        Henry, who succeeded Bathgate as Rangers captain in 1964, had as many as 37 goals in a season, which he did in 1962-63 when the Rangers played 70 games. ''And 37 goals then was like 60 goals now,'' Francis said.
        A power-play specialist, Henry was awarded the Calder Memorial Trophy as the N.H.L.'s rookie of the year after the 1953-54 season and the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy for most gentlemanly play in 1957-58.
        When his playing career ended, Henry drifted in and out of jobs, several friends said. He once had a radio show in Montreal, said Francis, and coached the New York Golden Blades in the now-defunct World Hockey Association and the Kansas City Blues in the Central Hockey League. Henry also worked at an ice arena in Totowa, N.J., and was a night watchman at a warehouse near Montreal.
        Henry is survived by two daughters, Martine and Nathalie, and two sisters.
        He endured much economic hardship after his retirement from the game, but Henry received an $85,000 court judgment from the N.H.L. Players' Association pension-fund surplus last year.
        ''He was never able to take advantage of it,'' the former Montreal Canadiens star Jean Beliveau, once a teammate of Henry's with the Quebec Citadelles, told The Associated Press.
        ''The last 20 years is probably when he could have used it,'' said Francis.
      