
        Carl Franz Hinshaw Jr., a self-taught chef who transformed Chalet Suzanne of Lake Wales, Fla., from a small but well-known family-run bistro into a critically acclaimed restaurant, died on Sept. 4 at his home near the restaurant just north of here. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Hinshaw, who joined his mother, Bertha, in managing the family business in the 1940's, helped to bring wider attention to the restaurant by introducing European traditions to its management and menu. He also began a line of fine soups, including its signature romaine soup. The soups were later sold under the Chalet Suzanne label in supermarkets nationwide.
        Chalet Suzanne dates to 1931, eight years after Bertha and Carl Hinshaw Sr. moved to Lake Wales from Maquoketa, Iowa, where Carl Jr. was born.
        The elder Mr. Hinshaw died in 1931, leaving his family nearly penniless, having lost his life savings in the stock market crash of 1929.
        But Bertha Hinshaw had her house, which was ornately decorated with European-style spires and towers. She decided to support her family with her culinary talents and soon opened the restaurant as a bistro catering mainly to tourists.
        Carl Jr. grew up at the restaurant and joined the family business when he returned from overseas duty as a pilot in World War II. That same year, in 1947, he married his high school sweetheart, Vita Peterson.
        Mr. Hinshaw had no formal training as a chef but learned by watching his mother.
        His cuisine soon began to win acclaim, and the restaurant became a Florida institution.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hinshaw is survived by a son, Eric; a daughter, Tina Farewell; a sister, Suzanne Otto, of Tiburon, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
        In recent years, as his illness progressed, Mr. Hinshaw began delegating the culinary duties at the Chalet to Ms. Farewell. His son said last week that family members intended to take over management of the restaurant.
        ''It's something that is going to endure,'' Eric Hinshaw said. ''It's not going to die with my dad.''
      