
        Matt Christopher, whose more than 120 sports novels for children and young adults entranced two generations of American youth and sold six million copies worldwide, died Saturday at the Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 years old.
        His family said he died of complications following his third operation in eight years for a brain tumor.
        Like the heroes in many of his novels, Mr. Christopher overcame endless obstacles. He grew up in upstate New York and wanted to attend Cornell, but his high school grades were low, he lacked one course in mathematics and his family was poor. So he worked at menial jobs, wrote in his free time and sent out as many as 40 stories at once.
        In 1952, his first book was published, an adult mystery called ''Look for the Body.'' It took two years to write. It earned him $150.
        He then worked on his first children's book, ''The Lucky Baseball Bat,'' and sold it to Little, Brown and Company of Boston. It became a hit, and a career was born.
        After that, writing eight hours a day, he completed at least two novels a year, almost all for Little, Brown. Under the pseudonym of Fredric Martin, he also wrote three mysteries for young adults. He wrote almost 300 short stories and magazine articles, a one-act play, humorous verses and a comic-strip adventure series.
        Matthew Frederick Christopher was born Aug. 16, 1917, in Bath, Pa. He was the eldest of nine children of an Italian father and a Hungarian mother.
        ''We had parents from another country who couldn't read or write,'' said Mr. Christopher's brother John. ''We did not subscribe to magazines or a newspaper. There was no literature in the home. And yet here's a guy who gets excited about reading and writing. None of us were excited.''
        At 14, Matt Christopher decided to become a writer. At 18, he won an award in a Writer's Digest short-story contest. Years later, he would point out that there were 200 awards and his was for 191st place.
        His best-known books were ''The Lucky Baseball Bat'' and his favorite, ''The Kid Who Only Hit Homers.'' His books sent subtle messages to young readers that through sports they could overcome handicaps, prejudice and physical and emotional trauma.
        ''My superstars are vulnerable,'' he once said, ''and have the same problems many other people have.''
        He said he loved to create.
        ''I liked to make things -- steamshovels, cars, model airplanes and boats,'' he said. ''When I was 9 or 10, I made a movie projector and my own film from sheets of paper. The projector never worked, but I had a great time designing and constructing it. I became a writer because I have always loved to make things starting from practically nothing.''
        Writing was never a labor. After high school, for almost a year, he would work a full-time job during the day, play semiprofesional baseball at night and write a 4,000-to-5,000-word detective story every week. He finally sold one, for $50.
        For a time, he played minor league baseball, but the priorities were different there. He once recalled:
        ''One day, when I was playing with Smith Falls, Ontario, my manager caught me reading in a hotel room. He said, 'Christopher, you're not here to read. You're here to eat, sleep and breathe baseball.' And he took away my magazine.''
        Mr. Christopher is survived by his wife, Catherine, of Rock Hill, S.C.; three sons, Martin of Lansing, N.Y.; Dale of Gansevoort, N.Y., and Duane of Rock Hill; a daughter, Pamela Howell of Moravia, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren, 3 great-grandchildren, 5 brothers and 2 sisters.
      