
        Arthur A. Rutledge, who arrived in Hawaii as a young stowaway from Seattle in 1934 and stayed to become one of Hawaii's most powerful union leaders ever, died on Monday at Kaiser Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 90 and lived in Honolulu.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said James Walter, a family friend and the executive director of Unity House, a nonprofit charity founded by Mr. Rutledge's unions.
        In a region with little experience with organized labor, Mr. Rutledge brought determination and humor to union organizing.
        He was arrested many times in the course of at least 200 strikes and work stoppages, and the Federal authorities unsuccessfully tried to deport him after questions were raised about his citizenship. The United States Senate investigated his relationship with Jimmy Hoffa and the teamsters' union, but no charges were ever filed. He was also tried on charges of attempted murder but was acquitted when a witness recanted his testimony.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Rutledge opened his own small hotel, the Waikiki Marina, having led strikes against some of Hawaii's biggest hotels. He would lead campaigns to improve his workers' productivity and then feign irritation by muttering, ''union labor.''
        Starting by organizing bartenders on Skid Row in the 1930's, Mr. Rutledge became one of the major figures in the Hawaiian labor movement by bringing together workers in the nascent hotel business with workers in the dairy, transit and trucking industries as part of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. He headed both the Hawaii locals of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees and the teamsters, and his influence blossomed as tourism boomed in the years after World War II.
        Richard R. Kelley, chairman of Outrigger Enterprises, Hawaii's largest hotel chain, which was struck several times by Mr. Rutledge's unions, said he remembered seeing a photograph of his father, Roy Kelley, in Mr. Rutledge's office. ''They were like two generals who fought across a river, and after the war they became friends,'' Mr. Kelley said. When the Federal Government tried to deport Mr. Rutledge in the early 1950's, Roy Kelley testified in Mr. Rutledge's behalf.
        Arthur Abraham Rutledge was born Avrom Rotlieder on Jan. 2, 1907, in Lublin, Poland. He came to the United States with his mother when he was 6, and his name was Anglicized by immigration authorities.
        He held a series of odd jobs, and in 1934, when he was 27, he noticed a painting in a Seattle bar of what he called ''pretty girls on a South Sea island'' and impulsively stowed away on a ship to Hawaii. He was returned to Seattle after it was discovered that he had not paid a large fine for bootlegging but then settled in Hawaii in 1938.
        Mr. Rutledge cared passionately about civil rights, Mr. Walter said. When Federal officials in World War II refused to seat on the local labor board Jack Kawano, an official with the longshoremen's union who was of Japanese descent, Mr. Rutledge acted. He calmly informed them that his union controlled most of the territory's transportation, and said, ''If you don't seat Jack, you don't seat me.''  Mr. Kawano was placed on the board.
        Mr. Rutledge is survived by his three children, Anna, Anthony and Arthur Jr.; a younger brother, Maurice, of Los Angeles; eight grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      