
        Margo Rose, a puppeteer who with her husband gave life to Howdy Doody, the redheaded, freckle-faced marionette baby boomers grew up with, died on Saturday at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Waterford, Conn.
        ''Howdy Doody'' was broadcast on NBC television from December 1947 to September 1960, with its namesake star captivating youngsters, including those in the studio audience, known as the Peanut Gallery. They cheered and laughed as Clarabell the Clown squirted the show's host, Buffalo Bob Smith, with a seltzer bottle.
        While Howdy Doody was the creation of Mr. Smith, who first introduced him as a character radio, it was Mrs. Rose and her husband, Rufus, together with a team of puppeteers, who made the character spring to life.
        The show featured a mix of live actors and marionettes, who populated the fictional town of Doodyville. Buffalo Bob, wearing leather-fringed western garb, was narrator, leader and the voice of Howdy Doody. Clarabell, his mute, whitefaced sidekick, was originally played by Bob Keeshan, later to become Captain Kangaroo.
        The marionettes' success helped inspire other puppets and imaginary characters, as television producers discovered that the video screen was a perfect setting for the magic and magnetism of lovable creatures that appealed to audiences of all ages. ''Howdy Doody'' was to the 1950's what ''Sesame Street'' and the Muppet creations Jim Henson are to today's young television viewers.
        ''Margo and Rufus were really the people who started it all,'' said Richard Termine, director of the National Puppetry Conference at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., and associate director of the Jim Henson Legacy, a foundation that promotes puppetry.
        He said that Mrs. Rose remained active until two weeks ago, teaching others the art of making marionettes and bringing them to life.
        During one of her classes for Connecticut College in 1987 at the Eugene O'Neill Theater, Mrs. Rose told her students how she and her husband met in 1928 while touring with a marionette show. She recalled how they formed their own company, the Rufus Rose Marionettes, and performed until their work was disrupted by World War II.
        ''I've been working with puppets for over 60 years,'' Mrs. Rose said as she helped two students make marionette heads.
        Mrs. Rose's son James, former chairman of the theater department at Antioch College, said that he and his two brothers grew up in a home in Waterford that was built by their parents and filled with puppetry. He said the living room included a complete marionette and puppet theater.
        Mrs. Rose and her husband, who died in 1976, won a Peabody Award for best children's program for their series ''The Blue Ferry,'' based on the Pinocchio story and broadcast by WGN-TV in Chicago in 1957 and 1958.
        In 1991, Jane Henson, the wife of Jim Henson, established the Rufus Rose Endowment to enable continuation of their work at the O'Neill Center. The Roses were founding members of the Puppeteers of America and organized the group's first festival in 1937.
        The puppets they created, including a clown named Togo, were the subject of an exhibit last year at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. Mrs. Rose, who was born Margaret Skewis on Jan. 31, 1903, in Inwood, Iowa, was inducted this year into the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame.
        In addition to James, of Yellow Springs, Ohio, she is survived by two other sons, Rufus R., of Whidbey Island, Wash., and Christopher S. of Stonington, Conn.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      