
        Harold Elwood Yuker, a psychologist who defied the cerebral palsy with which he was born to become a leading educator at Hofstra University and an authority on attitudes toward the disabled, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Bellmore, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause of death was hypertension and cardiovascular disease, Hofstra said.
        Dr. Yuker arrived in 1948 as a lecturer in psychology at Hofstra, when it consisted of a few buildings and Quonset huts in Hempstead on Long Island. He watched it grow, becoming Provost and Dean of Faculties. At his death, he was Distinguished Professor of Psychology and a founding director of the Center for the Study of Attitudes Toward Persons with Disabilities.
        He was widely recognized as a psychologist and as a critic of the tendency of some disabled people to keep to themselves. His motto was, ''The most important thing for anyone with a disability is to learn to get along in a nondisabled world.''
        He was a force behind Hofstra's move, in the early 60's, to be one of the first private campuses with unhindered access for the disabled.
        He was born in Newark shortly before the Depression, the son of a baker and a seamstress.
        Mr. Yuker said he never expected to go to college. He enrolled in a school for crippled children, as the institutions were called, but said he never considered himself handicapped. Rather, he became determined to compete in the broader society and graduated from a local high school in which he was the only disabled pupil.
        He could not find employment, nor could the state's Rehabilitation Commission, which sent him to college instead. He graduated in business administration from the University of Newark, now part of Rutgers, and worked briefly for the Government.
        Offered a fellowship, he earned an M.A. in psychology from the New School for Social Research and added a Ph.D. in social psychology from New York University. Advised to aim for a career in research, he applied instead to be a lecturer at Hofstra.
        Over the years he directed the Graduate Program in Psychology and the Center for the Study of Higher Education. He was Provost and Dean of Faculties from 1976 to 1982, when he founded the center on behavior toward the disabled.
        He was the author, co-author and editor of several books, including ''Attitudes Toward Persons With Disabilities'' (Springer, 1988), which remains in print. The university named a reference library for him in 1995.
        Surviving is a half brother, Joseph Kleinman of Summerville, S.C.
      