
        Dr. Karl F. Koopman, an expert on bats and a former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sept. 22 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the museum announced on Friday. He was 77.
        He apparently died of natural causes, said Dr. Nancy Simmons, acting chairwoman of the museum's mammalogy department.
        Dr. Koopman, a mammalogist, joined the staff of the museum in 1961 and retired in 1985 but continued to conduct research there.
        ''He was one of the world's great authorities on bats,'' Thomas A. Griffiths, professor of biology at Illinois Wesleyan University, an expert on bats who is the director of the North American Symposium on Bat Research, said yesterday. ''He was one of the few people of whom it can be truly said that he was an authority on every kind of bat, all over the world.''
        Professor Griffiths said Dr. Koopman's broad learning enabled him to write ''a very definitive book,'' the 1994 volume about bats in the multi-volume work ''Handbook of Zoology'' (De Gruyter) and also to write the extensive chapter on bats in the authoritative and widely used reference book ''Mammal Species of the World'' (1993, Smithsonian).
        Dr. Koopman's contributions to knowledge about bats lie chiefly in  the systematics of bats, the study of how they have evolved through time and how they are related to one another, and in biogeography, the study of the geographical distribution of species and how they got there.
        Dr. Simmons said that Dr. Koopman had underscored the breadth of his expertise by writing ''really seminal papers critical to understanding of the bats of Peru -- and the bats of the Sudan.''
        In his earlier years, Dr. Koopman made many research trips to the Greater and Lesser Antilles, Bolivia and elsewhere. In addition, at the American Museum of Natural History and at other museums, he analyzed specimens of different kinds of bats, some of them obtained 100 years ago or more.
        He was born in Honolulu, lived as a child in the Los Angeles area and often went to the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, where he became fascinated by aspects of nature.
        He received a bachelor's degree in 1943 from Columbia. Dr. Koopman went on to do research about the formation of new species of fruit flies for the dissertation he wrote before receiving his Ph.D in 1950, also from Columbia. His findings were published at the time in the scientific journal Evolution.
        Professor Griffiths said he thought that Dr. Koopman had become interested in mammals as a boy and, after receiving his doctorate, made them his scientific specialty. In the 1950's, he was a biology instructor at Queens College and was on the staffs of the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia and of the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago.
        He was on the board of the American Society of Mammalogists, received its Hartley H. T. Jackson Award and was made an honorary member. He also received the Gerrit S. Miller Jr. Award from the North American Symposium on Bat Research.
      