
        Frederick W. Zuckerman, a former treasurer of the Chrysler Corporation, RJR Nabisco and the International Business Machines Corporation, died on Sept. 19 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan at age 63.
        The cause was colon cancer, his daughter, Lee Zuckerman, said. Mr. Zuckerman was a resident of Manhattan.
        In 1979, Mr. Zuckerman helped persuade Congress to guarantee a $1.5 billion Federal loan to rescue Chrysler as the company teetered on the verge of bankruptcy. He resigned from the auto maker in 1990. After 11 years of commuting weekly between New York and Detroit, he said he had grown tired of the travel and the separation from his family.
        He became treasurer of RJR Nabisco in 1991 and left in 1993, when he rejoined I.B.M., as treasurer, after a 14-year absence from the company. He left in 1994 and became a merchant banker in a private partnership in New York. He was on the boards of eight companies.
        Mr. Zuckerman, who was born in Manhattan on May 4, 1934, graduated from Ohio State University in 1955 and earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia University in 1958. He spent the next eight years with the Ford Motor Company and then served 12 years with I.B.M.
        In its February 1995 issue, CFO: The Magazine for Senior Financial Executives named Mr. Zuckerman one of 12 executives ''who made a difference'' -- even though he had never been a chief financial officer.
        The difference Mr. Zuckerman made, the magazine said, was in arranging huge offerings of Chrysler stock, repayment of the company's debt and repurchase of Chrysler's 14.4 million warrants to the Federal Government. He also helped RJR Nabisco regain its investment-grade rating. During his second stint at I.B.M., he insured the company's liquidity by negotiating a $10 billion, five-year revolving credit line with 81 banks.
        Mr. Zuckerman told the magazine that he had been offered the title of chief financial officer four times -- including by three companies that subsequently declared bankruptcy.
        ''But I don't care about titles,'' he said. ''I care about two things: equity upside and fun. If you can make a lot of money for shareholders and negotiate the proper deals, you can also make a lot of money for yourself.  And fun -- fun is being party to a turnaround.''
        Mr. Zuckerman, who was divorced, is survived by two daughters, Lee Zuckerman of Manhattan and Susan Seely of Menlo Park, Calif., and a grandson.
      