
        Marian E. Koshland, an immunologist and professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley who studied the ways antibodies fight off disease, died on Tuesday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley. She was 76 and lived in Lafayette, Calif.
        The cause was lung cancer, the university said.
        Dr. Koshland, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the president of the American Association of Immunologists in 1982 and 1983, discovered that antibodies differ in their amino acid composition, a factor that makes them extremely efficient at fending off disease.
        She made the discovery by studying a molecule of phosphate and a molecule of arsenate. The two substances are somewhat similar chemically, but she found that they produced distinct and noticeably different antibodies when exposed to an antigen.
        She also discovered a molecular chain that allows antibodies to be exported from a cell and to circulate in the bloodstream.
        In 1991 she and her colleagues at Berkeley described the characteristics of a pathway that apparently serves as an intracellular superhighway, bypassing normal intracellular communication channels and making possible the proliferation of B-cells, which are essential in fighting off infection.
        Dr. Koshland, who was born in New Haven on Oct. 25, 1921, received a bachelor's degree from Vassar College in 1942, a master's degree from Vassar the next year and a doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1949. During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
        After two years as a fellow in the department of bacteriology at Harvard University, she joined the staff of the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, first as an associate bacteriologist in the biology department and, from 1963 to 1965, as a bacteriologist.
        She moved to Berkeley in 1965 as an associate research immunologist in the virus laboratory. In 1966, she became a lecturer in the department of molecularly biology. She was named a professor in the department of microbiology and immunology in 1970, and headed the department from 1982 to 1989.
        Dr. Koshland, who was also the head of the graduate affairs division in the department, was a member of the National Science Board from 1976 to 1982 and of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences. She had continued to do research in her laboratory until recently.
        She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      