
        Charles B. Branch, a former president and chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company, died last Saturday at Santa Rosa Hospital in San Antonio. He was 82 and lived on a ranch and wildlife refuge in nearby Boerne, Tex.
        The cause was bacterial pneumonia complicated by emphysema, a  daughter, Andrea Branch, said.
        An executive who spent his entire 39-year career at Dow, Mr. Branch made his mark developing the international side of Dow's business, markets the company had largely ignored from its creation.
        When he was named president of Dow Chemical International in 1959, foreign sales were virtually nonexistent. Over the next decade, Mr. Branch built the business to the point that it accounted for about 40 percent of Dow's revenue.
        Mr. Branch, who as executive vice president during the 1960's was part of a three-man team at the top of Dow Chemical's management, was named president and chief executive in 1971 when H. D. Doan, a grandson of the company's founder, resigned for personal reasons.
        Mr. Branch's promotion made him  Dow's fifth chief executive since the company, which is based in Midland, Mich., was founded in 1897, and the first who was not a member of the Dow family.
        ''Ben's global vision, foresight and pursuit of new international opportunities made him one of Dow's most outstanding leaders,'' William S. Stavropoulos, Dow's president and chief executive, said in a statement.
        Mr. Branch retired as chief executive in 1976. He had been appointed to Dow's board in 1958 and remained a member until 1980.
        Mr. Branch, who was born in Omaha, joined Dow Chemical in 1937 immediately upon graduation from Western Reserve University in Cleveland, where he earned a B.S. degree in chemistry.
        But Mr. Branch's interests extended beyond the chemical industry. He  often told reporters he would have made archeology his life's work had there been any way to make a living at it.
        Mr. Branch's first marriage, to Shirley Dasher Branch of Midland, Mich., ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his second wife, Anita, of Boerne; a brother, Neal Branch of Knoxville, Tenn.; seven children: Jaquith Shadoff of Lake Jackson, Tex., Jill Emmert of Huntington, Ind., Kristi Branch of Seattle, Gretchen Romano of Matino, Italy, Andrea Branch of Manhattan, Derek Branch of Downingtown, Pa. and Timotha Trigg of Chadds Ford, Pa.; 15 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      