
        Lawrence Lachman, a former chairman of Bloomingdale's, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 81 and died of heart failure, a spokeswoman for the company said.
        Mr. Lachman was one of the key executives in the transformation of Bloomingdale's from a local New York specialty store into a retail chain with stores throughout the Northeast. Mr. Lachman oversaw the revamping of the Bloomingdale's flagship store, on East 59th Street between Third and Lexington Avenues, in the 1940's, turning it from just another department store into a destination for the shopper looking for something odd or new and helping it to compete with stores on Fifth Avenue, the heart of New York retailing at the time.
        In order to transform Bloomingdale's into a specialty store with an upscale image, Mr. Lachman was charged with mastering the difficult balance of merchandising and operational issues. He was extremely focused on keeping firm control of company expenses, but at the same time was credited for understanding that merchants need leeway to buy unique merchandise and present it in an eye-catching manner.
        Mr. Lachman was also known as a firm but gentle employer who pushed buyers and merchants to become more attuned to the operational and financial side of the business. The melding of these two skills has become an important element in modern department store retailing.
        During his tenure, Bloomingdale's grew from 6 stores in metropolitan New York to 15 stores from Boston to Washington.
        Mr. Lachman was born in New York City in 1916 and graduated from New York University in 1936. Although his skill as a shortstop for the college baseball team attracted the attention of Connie Mack, the manager of the Philadelphia Athletics, Mr. Lachman chose instead a career in business and retailing.
        From 1938 until 1946, Mr. Lachman served as controller of the James McCreery stores and then was treasurer of Citizens Utilities in Stamford, Conn., for one year. After serving in the Air Force, during which he received the Bronze Star, he joined Bloomingdale's as treasurer. He served in several executive positions before being named chief executive in 1964 and chairman in 1969.
        He retired from the company in 1978 and became chief executive of the Business Marketing Corporation. He also advised or served as a director of several retail companies. Most recently, he was a director of DFS Group Ltd.
        Mr. Lachman is survived by his wife, Judith; two sons, Robert, of Englewood, N.J., and Charles, of Haworth, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      