
        Thomas Whiteside, a writer who made a career of tackling extraordinarily complex topics -- from toxic chemicals to media conglomeration -- for The New Yorker, died on Friday at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Marie.
        Mr. Whiteside worked at The New Yorker for 45 years, writing about subjects as whimsical as the model Twiggy and as serious as the perils of a class of chemicals called dioxins. These were used in Agent Orange, a herbicide dropped extensively on Vietnam during the Vietnam War.
        In 1970, his series on Agent Orange  led directly to Senate hearings on the dangers of the substance, said Senator Philip A. Hart of Michigan, the chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on the Environment, who convened them.
        By the end of the hearings, the Surgeon General of the United States had announced restrictions on the use of the herbicide. Shortly afterward, the Defense Department stopped using it in Vietnam.
        ''He was a modest, pioneering, persistent journalist way ahead of his time,'' Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, said. ''He was very much opposed to corporate concentration of power and corporate cover-ups.''
        Working from an unimaginably cluttered desk at The New Yorker, Mr. Whiteside patiently made his way through the most complex topics.
        ''He was unique in his willingness and ability to take on extraordinarily difficult subjects,'' said Suzannah Lessard, a colleague at the magazine for two decades, ''subjects that tended to change under your feet while you were working on them.''
        Mr. Whiteside was born on April 21, 1918, in Berwick-Upon-Tweed, England. He came to the United States from Canada in 1940 to study at the University of Chicago. During World War II he worked for the Office of War Propaganda, compiling reports on Axis propaganda.
        In 1945, the year he became a United States citizen, he joined Newsweek as a foreign affairs writer. Two years later he moved to the The New Republic. He joined The New Yorker in 1950.
        In addition to environmental topics, he also wrote about credit-reporting abuses, changes in the publishing industry and even turned out a piece about carousels.
        His colleagues remember that he proposed an article on a new rock group from Liverpool, England, but his editors declined the story about the Beatles.
        He also wrote 11 books, many representing compilations of his New Yorker articles. The last was ''The Blockbuster Complex,'' a 1981 study of changes in the publishing industry.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, James, also of West Cornwall; two daughters, Karen Falcon of Philadelphia and Ann Whiteside of San Francisco, and seven grandchildren.
      