
        Meredith F. Burrill, a toponymist's toponymist who made a name for himself as the world's foremost authority on what people variously -- and sometimes perversely -- call the earth's lakes, rivers, mountains, seas, cities, towns and other physical features and political subdivisions, died on Sunday at a hospital in Washington. He was 94 and had spent 30 years as executive secretary of the United States Board on Geographic Names.
        If it seems appropriate that a man named Meredith but called Pete (from the French petit) would master the often confusing world of geographic nomenclature, it was not his idea.
        Indeed, until he was in his 40's, Dr. Burrill's major claim to fame was that he had been in all 254 Texas counties, a feat he accomplished while assisting Federal efforts to resettle Dust Bowl refugees in a decade he spent teaching geography at Oklahoma A & M University.
        The resettlement work led to a job in Washington in 1940 as an economic geographer for the old General Land Office in the Department of Interior, which is where the Secretary of the Interior, Harold L. Ickes, found him happily at work in 1943.
        With the war against Japan raising the prospects of large-scale Asian operations, it had fallen to Mr. Ickes to solve a daunting problem:  converting thousands of place names listed only in Japanese, Chinese or other unfamiliar scripts into the Roman alphabet for military maps.
        Mr. Ickes got the job because his department supervised the Board of Geographic Names, a sleepy little office that had virtually withered away since it was founded in 1890 to standardize American place names.
        Dr. Burrill got the job as the beefed-up board's executive secretary because he was the only qualified geographer in the Interior Department.
        Not that Dr. Burrill was especially qualified in the study of place names, or toponymy, a field, to be sure, that barely existed before he came along.
        A peripatetic school superintendent's son, he was born in Houlton, Me., and grew up in a series of Maine towns, without any particular interest in geography.
        Indeed, he set out to study history and government, but at Bates College an inspiring teacher who took his students on field trips discoursing on the origin of various rocks and mineral deposits, left Dr. Burrill with such a passion for knowing everything there was to know about the earth that he switched to geography.
        At Clark University in Worcester, Mass., he got a master's and doctorate, studying at the feet of the master, Wallace Atwood, who had transformed Clark into a world renowned center of geographic studies.
        If Dr. Burrill had not paid much attention to place names before 1943, he did not waste much time in becoming the world's leading expert.
        Under his direction a staff of 175 experts in geography, linguistics, languages and map-making identified and translated some two million Asian place names. After the war, Dr. Burrill supervised a board of experts from nine Federal agencies charged with establishing standard names for all Federal maps and publications.
        Seeing the importance of common international standards, Dr. Burrill helped persuade the United Nations to establish a series of international conferences to prod countries to standardize their own place names, a task whose complications were underscored when the first conference was held on Lake Geneva, a body of water with four official names.
        Even after he retired in 1973, Dr. Burrill represented the United States at the United Nations and continued one of his cherished projects, analyzing the distribution of 2,000 generic names applied to a handful of geographic features on American maps. In a world where one man's brook is another woman's creek, Dr. Burrill traced entire ethnic migrations simply by plotting which terms were used where, finding, for example, Louisiana-style bayous in Indiana.
        Although much of his work focused on established names, Dr. Burrill got a chance to do a little naming himself in Antarctica. He was thwarted when he tried to name a sea after President Roosevelt and a mountain range after Secretary Ickes, but he managed to leave his mark, anyway. There is a Mount Burrill in Antarctica, though his friends can be forgiven if they call it Pete.
        Dr. Burrill, whose first wife died in 1978, is survived by his wife, Betty Didcoct Burrill of Bethesda, Md.; a son, Robert, of Pensacola, Fla.; a daughter, Elizabeth Allard of Newburyport, Mass.; two grandsons and five great grandchildren.
      