
        Luis Aguilar Manzo, a shark fisherman turned actor whose debonair mustache, arching eyebrows and splendid singing voice made him one of Mexico's most durable movie stars, died on Friday at his home here. He was 79.
        His wife, the actress Rosario Galvez, said the cause was a heart attack.
        During a career that took off in the postwar years and spanned half a century, Mr. Aguilar appeared in nearly 150 movies. He starred in a string of films alongside such stars as Pedro Infante, Jorge Negrete and Maria Felix.
        Over the years Mr. Aguilar's roles included a bolero singer, a traffic officer, a masked horseman, a revolutionary commander and a Catholic guerrilla. But his most familiar role, which he played in dozens of movies, was as a sombrero-wearing charro, a kind of romanticized Mexican horseman, who won the love of submissive heroines as he fought, bragged and sang his way across a stylized cinematic landscape.
        In many of his films, rural Mexico was portrayed as a simple, gentle world inhabited by ingenuous and often comic figures.
        Mr. Aguilar was born on Jan. 29, 1918, in Hermosillo in the state of Sonora and later moved to the Pacific port of Mazatlan, where he became a fisherman and bought several commercial boats. But during a  visit to Mexico City in 1943, he was hired by a prominent movie producer who heard from friends that Mr. Aguilar had crooned expressively at a house party. Mr. Aguilar was given the starring role in ''The Jack, the Horse and the King,'' a film that made him an overnight movie star.
        Perhaps his best-known film was the 1951 comedy ''Full Steam Ahead,'' in which he and Mr. Infante played lovable and acrobatic motorcycle patrolmen riding the streets of Mexico City in search of love and adventure. One critic called the movie ''one of the best and most entertaining exaltations of machismo.''
        Mr. Aguilar did most of his own stunts, often taking serious risks when, with cameras rolling, he crashed automobiles, fell from galloping horses or was beaten by furious rivals. His nickname, ''The Wild Rooster,'' came from the title of a 1948 film. He appeared that year in several nationalist melodramas, including ''I'm a Mexican First.''
        In an interview this year with the Government newspaper El Nacional, Mr. Aguilar lamented that Mexican cinema has been largely squeezed out of the world's commercial movie theaters.
        ''It hurts me a lot that the economic resources don't exist to put our industry on a sound footing,'' he said. ''In my time there were 120 films produced here every year, and now in a good year they put out scarcely 10. You can't compete internationally like that.''
        One of Mr. Aguilar's final dramatic appearances came in 1991, when at age 73 he portrayed an aging and senile courtier in ''The Years of Greta,'' a film depicting old age.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Luis Roberto Aguilar Doblado, and two daughters, Maria Fernanda and Ana Luisa Aguilar.
      