
        Jimmy Herbert of New Rochelle, N.Y., who won more races than any other runner at Madison Square Garden, died Thursday night in Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 82 years old.
        His wife, Mary, said he died of kidney failure, two weeks after surgery to remove a malignant tumor on his liver.
        Although he was a well-known schoolboy and college runner for Stuyvesant High School and New York University in the late 30's and early 40's, Herbert cemented his reputation in track and field by excelling in the sport's foremost indoor arena. Before, during and after World War II, at least five track meets were run each January, February and March in the Garden, then situated at Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets. Herbert won 14 individual and 22 relay races there. In those relay victories, he ran the anchor leg 14 times, mostly in one-mile relays.
        He set an unofficial world indoor record of 1 minute 11.1 seconds for 600 yards in the 1939 New York Knights of Columbus Games at the Garden, equaled it two weeks later in the University of Chicago Relays and broke it again with 1:10.8 in the 1940 New York Knights of Columbus Games. In the 1938 Amateur Athletic Union national indoor championships in the Garden, he set a world record of 1:20.3 for 600 meters.
        After he graduated from N.Y.U., where he was team captain and a three-time all-American, he ran for the New York Curb Exchange team, then for the Grand Street Boys Athletic Association. He defeated such international stars as Glenn Cunningham, his Curb Exchange teammate; John Woodruff; John Borican, and Roy Cochran.
        Herbert won A.A.U. national indoor championships in 1938 and 1941. He won the Mel Sheppard 600, once a feature of the Chase Millrose Games, five times, equaling Alan Helffrich's record. He achieved a rare double in the Penn Relays, anchoring the champion mile relay teams for high schools (Stuyvesant) in 1933 and colleges (N.Y.U.) in 1940.
        Major indoor races are usually run now over banked, plastic-covered tracks 200 meters in circumference. In Herbert's day, the banked turns were steeper, the surface was wood and the tracks were smaller, only 160 yards to the lap. That was a disadvantage to most tall runners, especially on the tricky turns, but not to the 6-foot Herbert.
        ''He was one of the smoothest runners I've ever seen,'' said Howard Schmertz, the longtime director of the Millrose Games.
        Stan Saplin, the historical editor of Track and Field News, called Herbert ''the best man never elected to the Track and Field Hall of Fame.'' And as Woodruff, Herbert's longtime friend, said: ''He was very disappointed not being selected. His name never came up because people had forgotten. He ran a long time ago.''
        James Bruinel Herbert was born July 20, 1915, in Manhattan. When he was 12, his father died, and for three and a half years after high school he worked two or three jobs at a time to support his mother. While a college student in the days before track and field scholarships, he worked at the post office.
        He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in education from N.Y.U. in 1942. He later studied there toward a law degree and a master's degree in public administration. From 1952 to 1956, he was a recreation director for the New York City Department of Parks, and from 1956 to 1975 he was a senior court officer captain in the New York Supreme Court's criminal division.
        He was a district leader for the Democratic Party in Harlem and Washington Heights and served as a delegate to the Democratic National Conventions in 1968 and 1988. He was also an insurance and real-estate broker, and for more than 50 years he officiated at track meets.
        He is survived by his wife. Their only child, James, died in 1981.
      