
        Daniel E. Provost 3d, the tobacco executive who got Arthur Godfrey and Ronald Reagan to endorse Chesterfield cigarettes, led the the Liggett & Myers campaign against claims that tobacco is harmful and never abandoned his bedrock position that there is no evidence that smoking causes cancer, heart problems or other illnesses, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Ranchero Mirage, Calif. He was 78.
        His daughter, Ellen Provost, said the cause was heart failure, a vague pronouncement, she suggested, that would have pleased a man who insisted that his three-pack-a-day habit had not caused his three heart attacks or any of the congestive heart problems and other ailments that preceded his death.
        From the time he joined the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency in 1948 and was assigned to the Liggett account, until he retired in 1984 as the tobacco company's vice president in charge of corporate communications, Mr. Provost was in the forefront of efforts to promote smoking and in the thick of public and behind-the-scenes strategies to protect the company from the implications of mounting anecdotal, statistical and other evidence linking tobacco to cancer and other diseases.
        As the man in charge of the company's advertising, he was a power in television in the days when cigarette companies sponsored entire programs and stars like Arthur Godfrey and Perry Como, the singer, were important Chesterfield spokesmen.
        After tobacco commercials were banned in the 1960's, he developed celebrity golf tournaments and other sports events to promote the Liggett brands.
        From the 1950's to the 1980's, Mr. Provost wrote the Liggett & Myers annual reports and most of the company's public and private papers on tobacco safety -- many of which have recently been released in connection with product-liability lawsuits.
        After company-sponsored research found in 1954 that tobacco caused cancerous tumors in mice and Liggett began research to develop a safe cigarette, Mr. Provost helped keep the research secret. While acknowledging that tobacco might worsen ailments, he insisted that smoking did not cause disease, rejecting the notion that the experiments on mice had any relevance to human health.
        Mr. Provost could sometimes be obstinate and had such a distrust of doctors that he refused to see one for almost half a century after his last Navy physical in World War II.
        When he was stricken, for example, with a severe back ailment later determined to be a slipped disk, he simply stayed in bed for a week, then strapped himself into a supportive girdle and soldiered on until the problem resolved itself.
        When he suffered a heart attack in 1978, Mr. Provost, who initially thought he had had a stroke, did not tell anybody. Medicating himself, according to his children, he continued working until his damaged heart had healed.
        It was not until he finally consulted a doctor in 1991, about a skin cancer condition so pronounced that it appeared as if an ear was about to fall off, that presurgical medical tests ordered to fill in the gaps in a his medical record found evidence of the old back and heart injuries.
        Mr. Provost, a Brooklyn native whose parents were both advertising executives, traced his distrust of doctors to the time as a child when he was promised ice cream, but not told he would have his tonsils out first.
        After graduating from Dartmouth in 1941, he served in the Navy before beginning his career.
        While some Liggett executives quit smoking after reading the company's research on the experiments with mice, Mr. Provost did not even consider the idea. After all, he had been smoking since he was 12 years old (as young as 9 by some accounts) and had never been sick enough to decide to see a doctor.
        Curiously, while rejecting what others saw as compelling evidence that smoking was a health hazard, Mr. Provost was a pushover for health claims made for various food supplements. At dinner he was surrounded himself by vitamin bottles while having his usual three cigarettes going at once.
        He did cut down a bit after his 1978 heart attack and even stopped altogether for a few months after his second wife died of cancer in 1991, and again after suffering a heart attack last year. But following a third heart attack earlier this year, he started smoking again.
        Mr. Provost is survived by his wife, Laura; four children from his first marriage, Daniel 4th of Summit, N.J.; Richard of Darien, Conn.; Michael of Morristown, N.J., and Ellen of Sparkhill, N.Y.; a brother Roger of Long Beach, Calif., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 25, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary on Monday about Daniel E. Provost 3d, a former Liggett & Myers executive, misstated the name of his wife. She is Carol, not Laura.
      