
        Robert H. O'Brien, an early member of the Securities and Exchange Commission who later presided over the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio in the 1960's, died on Monday in Seattle. He was 93.
        Mr. O'Brien ran MGM during a particularly turbulent time. While the studio produced some of its greatest hits -- including ''Doctor Zhivago'' and ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' -- its uneven profitability disappointed some shareholders, who challenged Mr. O'Brien's leadership. He resigned as chairman in 1969.
        Robert Hector O'Brien was, by his own admission, an unlikely movie tycoon; as he told The New York Times in 1963, ''I'm no mogul.''
        Born in Helena, Mont., in 1904, Mr. O'Brien attended Beloit College and worked as a mining engineer before getting a law degree from the University of Chicago in 1933.
        After a brief stint with the Public Works Administration, he joined the staff of the S.E.C., which was founded in 1934. He served in several posts, including director of of the utilities division, which was regulating enforcement of the new Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
        In 1942, at age 37, Mr. O'Brien was appointed a commissioner by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who tended to promote commission staff members to agency seats.
        Two years later, Mr. O'Brien resigned to become a special assistant to the president of Paramount Pictures. He held several jobs in various divisions of Paramount, including executive vice president of the American Broadcasting Company.
        In 1957, Mr. O'Brien joined Loew's, which at the time owned both movie theaters and MGM. After the two businesses were split, he stayed with the studio, and in 1963 became its president. Mr. O'Brien's appointment was seen as a sign that a corporate culture was coming to the once-colorful movie industry. He took over at a time when MGM's earnings were suffering from the disappointing financial performance of ''Mutiny on the Bounty.''
        Though he managed to return MGM to profitability, Mr. O'Brien failed to placate some major shareholders, including Philip J. Levin, a real estate developer and director, who spearheaded two proxy fights against his management in 1966 and 1967. Mr. Levin ultimately sold his stake in MGM to Time Inc. and to Edgar M. Bronfman. Mr. Bronfman is now chairman of the Seagram Company, which has extensive entertainment holdings; MGM has changed hands and is now owned by a partnership including Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda Corporation.
        It was not long before Mr. Bronfman grew impatient with Mr. O'Brien, pushing him to step aside as chief executive, which Mr. O'Brien did in 1969. He quit as chairman in May of that year, when the company announced that it expected losses and would have to eliminate its dividend. He was replaced by Mr. Bronfman.
        After his retirement, Mr. O'Brien moved to Seattle. He is survived by his wife, Minna, and a nephew, Dr. D. J. McGonigle. His first wife, Ellen, and his daughter, Jo Ellen, died several years ago.
      