
        Dolph Camilli, a slugging first baseman who propelled the Brooklyn Dodgers to a long-awaited pennant in 1941 and became one of the most popular players in Flatbush, died yesterday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90. Noted for his muscular physique and soft hands, Camilli hit 34 home runs, drove in 120 runs (both National League highs) and fielded superbly to win the league's most valuable player award in '41 as the Dodgers won a pennant for the first time in 21 seasons.
        ''Camilli was a quiet, gentle man, but he was strong as an ox,'' Dodger Manager Leo Durocher would recall.
        Camilli was also the first building block in the Dodgers' recovery from a string of dreary seasons. The Ebbets Field seats (mostly empty) were crumbling, the ushers were surly, and the second division was a perennial address.
        The renaissance began in March 1938 when General Manager Larry MacPhail persuaded the Brooklyn Trust Company, which was running the Dodgers' finances, to part with big money (reportedly $75,000) to obtain Camilli from the Phillies.
        Camilli, a native of San Francisco, had made his debut in the major leagues with the Chicago Cubs at the end of the 1933 season after eight years in the minors. He was traded to Philadelphia in 1934 and quickly established himself as a power hitter. He was only 5 feet 10 inches and 185 pounds, but he had a ferocious swing that in seasons to come would swat balls over Ebbets Field's right-field screen onto Bedford Avenue.
        In 1941, Camilli joined with a young shortstop named Pee Wee Reese, the rookie center fielder Pete Reiser, and a host of veteran players picked up by MacPhail to bring the pennant to Brooklyn. (The five-game World Series loss to the Yankees was remembered mostly for Mickey Owen's disastrous passed ball.)
        In 1942, Camilli hit 26 homers and drove in 109 runs as the Dodgers finished second, two games behind the St. Louis Cardinals. But he struggled early in the 1943 season, and he was traded to the Giants by Branch Rickey, who had succeeded MacPhail and was unloading higher-salaried players during World War II's baseball retrenchment.
        At age 36, Camilli realized the end of his career was approaching, and, as he would say years later: ''I hated the Giants. This was real serious; this was no put-on stuff. Their fans hated us, and our fans hated them.
        ''I said nuts to them, and I quit.''
        He managed the Oakland Oaks of the Pacific Coast League in 1944 and part of 1945, then returned to the majors later that season with the Boston Red Sox before quitting for good. In 12 seasons, he hit 239 home runs with a batting average of .277.
        Camilli later managed in the minor leagues and was a scout for the Phillies and the Yankees.
        His son Doug was a catcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers and Washington Senators in the 1960's.
        He is also survived by his wife, Molly; four other sons, Richard, Dolph Jr., Bruce and Don; two daughters, Diane Abraham and Joanne Griggs, 16 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. Camilli's first wife, Ruth, died in 1980.
        In 1984, when Camilli returned to Brooklyn for induction into the Dodger Hall of Fame, he remembered the devoted fans of his day:
        ''All they cared about was their family, their job and the Dodgers. And I don't know which one was the most important.''
      