
        Pilar Miro Romero, a pioneering female director of movies and television who also fostered Spain's film industry by introducing state aid for promising young filmmakers when she served in the Socialist Government of the 1980's, died at her home here on Sunday. She was 57.
        She collapsed from a heart attack, doctors said. She had undergone surgery in 1975 to be outfitted with two heart valves, and they were replaced in a second operation in 1985.
        King Juan Carlos, a friend of Ms. Miro's since they were law students in Madrid 40 years ago, paid condolences at the city morgue on Sunday. Just two weeks ago, she directed Spanish state television's coverage, beamed worldwide, of the wedding in Barcelona of the King's daughter Princess Cristina.
        Ms. Miro's film ''Beltenebros,'' a tale of intrigue about the resistance during Franco's dictatorship, won a Silver Bear award at the Berlin Film Festival in 1992. Her movie ''El Perro del Hortelano,'' an adaptation of a 17th-century Spanish comedy about palace romance, garnered seven prizes, including best director, at this year's Goya Awards, Spain's top film honors.
        Ms. Miro, who became the first woman to direct dramas for Spanish television in 1966, was known for her link to progressive causes like the fight against racism. She won respect even from many leading conservatives, who attended her funeral today.
        As the Culture Ministry director of cinema from 1982 to 1985, she began Government subsidies to cash-starved young filmmakers. Among the directors who acknowledged the benefit were Pedro Almodovar, nominated for an Oscar in 1989 for ''Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown,'' and Fernando Trueba, who won the foreign-film Oscar in 1994 for ''Belle Epoque.''
        Born on April 20, 1940, in Madrid, Ms. Miro studied law at the University of Madrid but switched her interest to cinema and began working at state television in 1960. She directed her first feature-length film in 1975, and her 1979 movie ''El Crimen de Cuenca'' was censored for almost two years in Spain for depicting a torture scene by Civil Guards. When it finally opened, it was a top box office attraction.
        In 1982, she was a media adviser to Felipe Gonzalez when he was elected for the first time as Prime Minister, starting nearly 14 years of Socialist Party rule. Ms. Miro served in his administration, first in the Culture Ministry, then as Director General of state television and radio. She resigned from that post in 1989 during a controversy over her spending some $30,000 in Government funds for her personal wardrobe. She paid back the money and was cleared of wrongdoing by a court in 1992.
        Her subsequent projects included directing television coverage, in 1995, of the royal wedding in Seville of Princess Elena, the King's eldest daughter.
        Mr. Gonzalez attended the funeral today, as did the Spanish tenor Placido Domingo, whom Ms. Miro had seen perform at the Royal Theater opera house in Madrid the night before she died. The large crowd also included Princess Cristina and her husband, making their first public appearance since their wedding, and NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, formerly a Socialist minister under Mr. Gonzalez.
        Ms. Miro is survived by a son, Gonzalo, and a brother, Carlos.
      