
        Parker T. Hart, an American career diplomat who was prominent in Middle East matters in the 1960's, serving as Ambassador to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Turkey and Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Washington. He was 87.
        Mr. Hart, who spoke Arabic and Turkish, was also Minister to Yemen in 1961 and 1962, and director of the Foreign Service Institute, the State Department's chief training school, in 1969 until his retirement from the State Department later that year.
        As a diplomat, Mr. Hart could be a patient negotiator. While he was Ambassador to Turkey, from 1965 to 1968, he negotiated with Turkish officials for nine months until they agreed to phase out opium production in their country.
        Praising Mr. Hart's achievement, Sen. Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, wrote in 1984, ''It is clear that diplomatic persistence produced results.''
        In the late 1960's Turkey was a prime source of opium used in making heroin. Senator Hart wrote: ''In 1968, approximately 80 percent of the heroin coming into the United States originated in the poppy fields of Turkey. Today, Turkey is free of illicit poppy production.''
        Mr. Hart could also be stern and fast-moving. While he was Assistant Secretary of State, in 1968 and 1969, Israel attacked Beirut International Airport, on Dec. 28, 1968. Israelis suggested at the time that the attack had been meant as a warning to Lebanon against allowing Arab commando spokesmen from spreading propaganda in that country.
        The Johnson administration's view was that Israel had disrupted movement toward a stable peace in the Middle East with its retaliations against Arab terrorism. And so, soon after the raid, Mr. Hart summoned Moshe Raviv, counselor of the Israeli Embassy in Washington, to the State Department to protest in what officials, later that day, called the ''strongest possible terms.''
        Mr. Hart also swiftly telephoned representatives of American Airlines and Pan American World Airways -- which had interests in Lebanese airlines -- and Trans World Airlines to discuss possible relief measures for two Lebanese airlines that had suffered damages in the attack.
        Mr. Hart was born in Medford, Mass., graduated from Dartmouth College, earned a master's degree in history from Harvard, studied in Switzerland and joined the State Department in 1937. He went on to hold consular and diplomatic posts in Vienna; Para, Brazil; Cairo and Jidda and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
        In the 1950's, after other assignments in Washington, he was director of the State Department's Office of Near Eastern Affairs, Deputy Chief of Mission in Cairo, Consul General in Damascus and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near East and South Asia Affairs.
        Mr. Hart was Ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 1961 to 1965 and concurrently held two other posts: Minister to Yemen and, in 1962 and 1963, Ambassador to Kuwait. He was president of the Middle East Institute in Washington from 1969 to 1973 and a special representative of, and then a consultant to, Bechtel Corp. from 1973 to 1990.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Jane Smiley; two daughters, Margaret Hart Espey of Lafayette Calif. and Judith Hart Halsema of Karachi, Pakistan, and four grandchildren.
      