
        Nancy Dickerson, who in the 1950's and 60's combined network television reporting with her role as a sought-after Washington partygiver and insider, died yesterday in New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old and maintained homes for many years both in Washington and New York.
        The cause of death was complications from a stroke she suffered in January 1996, said a son, John Dickerson. Ms. Dickerson suffered from declining health after being stricken by a heart attack, and then the stroke. She seemed to be making progress but then began to regress, said her husband, John C. Whitehead. Ms. Dickerson was given final rites of the Roman Catholic Church last Thursday.
        In 1960, as Nancy Hanschman, she became the first woman to be hired as a network correspondent by CBS News and was a mainstay there and in the Washington bureau of NBC, in which she worked from 1963 to 1970. After that, she formed her own company and devoted herself to producing and appearing in syndicated television productions. One project was ''784 Days That Changed America -- From Watergate to Resignation,'' which won the Peabody Award. Another of her programs was ''Being With John F. Kennedy,'' a documentary co-produced with Robert Drew. She also served as a commentator for Fox News.
        Among the stories of which she was most proud were her 1980 interviews with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt, Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia. The interviews were presented by the Public Broadcasting System.
        She also produced for PBS a documentary on the role of women in the Arab world titled, ''Islam: The Veil and the Future.''
        Ms. Dickerson often acknowledged over the years that her success came partly from knowing people.
        ''My social life always seems to revolve around business,'' she said.
        The people on her ''A'' list who attended her parties included Ronald and Nancy Reagan, Averell and Pamela Harriman, Walter Annenberg, Senator Charles Percy of Illinois, Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, Edward Bennett Williams, Joseph Califano, Elliot Richardson and other prominent figures in administrations from John F. Kennedy's to Mr. Reagan's.
        She entertained them at her townhouse in Washington's Kalorama Triangle or at Merrywood in McLean, Va., the estate where Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Princess Lee Radziwill grew up. Merrywood was acquired in 1965 by her husband then, C. Wyatt Dickerson, a real-estate investor, and it was where some of Ms. Dickerson's most lavish parties were held.
        It was an indication of her place in the capital's social firmament that when she married Mr. Dickerson in 1962, a party was given in her honor, hosted by President Lyndon B. Johnson, Justice Arthur Goldberg of the Supreme Court and Senator Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut.
        In her memoirs, published as ''Among Those Present'' by Random House in 1976, Ms. Dickerson revealed that in the 1950's, she had dated John F. Kennedy when he was a Senator from Massachusetts, Senator Henry Jackson of Washington, Senator Kenneth Keating of New York and had been propositioned at least once by Lyndon B. Johnson. (She turned him down, she said.) Left unfinished at the time of her death was a sequel to this book.
        Ms. Dickerson used her contacts to get many scoops in Washington. One of them was Mr. Johnson's decision, in 1964, to ask Senator Hubert H. Humphrey to be his running mate. Another was a rare interview with Speaker Sam Rayburn (who did not like to be interviewed on camera) and an exclusive interview with Senator Barry Goldwater, who wanted to explain to her why he had voted against the Civil Rights Bill.
        Not all her exclusives came from Washington. In 1963, she was first to learn that an airline crash near San Francisco had been caused because a deranged passenger had shot the pilot.
        She was born Nancy Conners Hanschman to Frederick R. and Florence Conners Hanschman on Jan. 27, 1927, in Wauwatosa, Wisc., a suburb of Milwaukee. She attended Clark College, then a Catholic school for women in Dubuque, Iowa, then entered the University of Wisconsin, where she concentrated in English, Spanish and Portuguese, earning her bachelor's degree in 1948.
        She taught school for a time in Milwaukee but in 1951, came to New York in search, she said, of an interesting job. When she could not find something suitable, she went to Washington, where she became a registrar in the Institute of Languages at Georgetown University. She soon found a more desirable job, doing research for the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
        She heard that CBS was looking for somebody to produce a radio show about the political scene in Washington called ''The Leading Question,'' and talked her way into it. She did well as a producer, although she had never done it before, and as a result was named associate producer of ''Face The Nation,'' when CBS started that successful interview program in the middle 50's. One of her coups was to persuade the Speaker of the House, Joseph Martin of Massachusetts, to make his television debut on CBS.
        She wanted to be on the air herself but in those days, the national reporting staff of CBS was a male preserve. In order to break into it, she used her 1959 vacation to go to Europe to do a radio feature on the peacetime activities of the Women's Army Corps. CBS officials liked it so much, they used it on ''The World Tonight,'' then a mainstay of CBS Radio.
        In 1960, CBS decided it would expand its staff to cover the Presidential elections and named her its first woman correspondent in February of that year. The other two networks, NBC and ABC, already had named women to their news staffs, but Miss Hanschman was certainly in the vanguard of women in the ranks of network correspondents. She first covered Senator Humphrey's campaign, but when he lost the West Virginia primary to Mr. Kennedy and dropped out of the primary, she covered Senator Lyndon Johnson all the way to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July of 1960, where he became Mr. Kennedy's running mate,
        Later that year, CBS gave her own weekday radio show, ''One Woman's Washington,'' in which she discussed Washington topics that she thought might be of interest to women around the country. But she did not want to be involved only in women's programming and in the next few years, covered Mr. Kennedy's funeral and the civil rights movement, including the March on Washington.  In 1963, she left CBS and joined NBC News in Washington, where she remained until 1970, covering general national news and politics.
        She married C. Wyatt Dickerson,  in 1962. That union ended in divorce in 1983. In 1989, she married John C. Whitehead, chairman of AEA Investors, an investment concern in New York, and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. He is also a former senior partner and co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, and was a Deputy Secretary of State in the Reagan Administration. She maintained a home in New York on Sutton Place and was active in various philanthropic efforts, including serving on the boards of Covenant House, the Hospital for Special Surgery, and the New York Public Library. She was also a member of the Central Park Conservancy. In Washington she was active in the White House Endowment Fund, among other causes.
        Survivors in addition to her husband include three daughters, Elizabeth Earls and Jane Dickerson, both of Washington, and Ann Pullion of Villanova, Pa.; and two sons, Michael Dickerson of Atlanta, Ga., and John Dickerson of Washington, and a sister, Mary Ellen Phillip of Milwaukee.
        Correction:  October 20, 1997, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Nancy Dickerson referred incorrectly to Lyndon B. Johnson, who was a host at a party for her when she was married in 1962. Johnson was Vice President, not President, at the time.
      