
        Carl Feiss, a visionary architect and pioneering urban planner who helped transform the science of clearing slums into the art of historic preservation, died on Oct. 10 at a retirement home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 90 and had played an important role in historic restorations in Charleston, S.C., Savannah, Ga.. Annapolis, Md., Alexandria, Va., and scores of other cities in the United States and abroad.
        Mr. Feiss was one of the first of the professional planners who emerged in the 1930's to elevate what had been a grab bag of activities by civil engineers and other municipal officials into a distinct discipline. In the forefront of his field almost from the beginning, he ended his career teaching a new generation of planners at the University of Florida.
        Mr. Feiss, whose father was a men's clothing manufacturer, grew up in an artistic Cleveland household. (Mr. Feiss was a lifelong painter.) He earned a degree in architecture from the University of Pennsylvania, spent three years teaching at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and then obtained one of the first master's degrees in urban planning offered by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Within a year of receiving his degree, in 1938 at age 31, he had been made the director of the housing and planning division of the Columbia University School of Architecture. He had also become deeply involved in zoning and other planning issues in New York City.
        Although he was so devoted to public construction projects that he once suggested that the much-maligned form might someday produce an American Parthenon, from the start Mr. Feiss was a planner with a difference. He advocated low-density, low-cost development of vacant land and tangled with New York's master builder, Robert Moses, over grandiose plans to build expensive public housing on the rubble of cleared slums.
        He then spent five years in Denver, where he ran the city's planning commission, established an urban planning department at the University of Denver and helped found the Denver Art Museum. Mr. Feiss went to Washington in 1950 as the chief planner for slum clearance for the forerunner of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and had an epiphany.
        At a time when urban renewal generally meant bulldozing neighborhoods to make way for modern steel-and-concrete structures, Mr. Feiss decided that for all their rundown condition, many buildings being swept away were architectural or historic gems whose restoration could be the basis for renewal of an invaluable municipal heritage.
        He left his post in Washington in 1955 and became an independent consultant. He led the campaign that produced the Federal Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and a National Register of Historic Places, and was  a sought-after expert on the complexities of historic preservation.
        Mr. Feiss, whose clients included state, county and city agencies from Connecticut to Bogota, Colombia, hardly invented the notion of preserving and restoring rundown neighborhoods of architectural or historic significance. The idea, long the province of the docent class, generated almost too much support: at a time when the bulldoze-and-build approach offered the advantage of straightforward simplicity, the trick of historic preservation was to get an assortment of often squabbling civic groups, public agencies, elected officials and private businesses to work together.
        Mr. Feiss, who wrote and lectured widely on the subject and all but invented the methodology of preservation, was a master at coordinating an intricate array of tasks: creating an inventory of worthy buildings, mapping district lines, obtaining necessary zoning and other legislation, creating and enacting economic revitalization plans and arranging creative financing.
        Success did not occur overnight. He spent seven years working on the Savannah project, for example.
        His spirit, determination and attention to detail were not limited to his professional life. On visits to the great James River plantations of Virginia, he would pinch a bit of the ancient boxwoods, then plant them at his home in the Cleveland Park section of Washington, where he would proudly identify each bush by the plantation it was from.
        He is survived by his wife, Alleen,  of Falls Church, Va.; two daughters, Alison Kriviskey of Falls Church and Caroline Feiss of Seattle; a sister, Gertrude Feiss of New York City, and two grandchildren.
      