
        Wes Gallagher, who as president and general manager of The Associated Press oversaw substantial changes in news coverage and in the use of technology, died on Saturday at St. Francis Medical Center in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        Mr. Gallagher, a booming-voiced Californian, was the news agency's general manager and chief executive from 1962 until 1976. He was also its president from 1972 to 1976, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65.
        The Associated Press is a cooperative owned by its member newspapers and radio and television stations in the United States. In 1976 its reporting appeared in up to 1,300 newspapers, went to 3,500 radio and television stations in the United States and was transmitted to 100 foreign countries. The agency's headquarters is in Rockefeller Center in Manhattan.
        During Mr. Gallagher's last decade at The Associated Press, he oversaw an evolution in its perception of what was news.
        In that period, the news service kept reporting about events as they occurred, but it came to put a new emphasis on dispatches that tried to go beyond the hard facts of the news. By 1976, the agency was sending to its subscribers longer and more detailed stories reporting in depth about topics like life styles, inflation and the environment.
        As general manager, Mr. Gallagher oversaw the creation of a team of energy specialists who wrote interpretive and background stories about that era's oil shortage. He created a ''Mod Squad'' of roving reporters to write about the evolution in American life that began in the late 1960's. And he set up a special group of reporters to chronicle urban problems in the 1970's.
        ''We found that it was not enough to just expose these things day after day,'' he said in a 1976 interview.  ''The man in the street has become more cynical and what he wanted was more interpretive reporting. He wanted to know what to do about these problems. He wanted them in a cooler perspective.''
        By 1976, The Associated Press was still covering foreign news, but under Mr. Gallagher, it was putting less emphasis on day-to-day events.
        ''Following Vietnam, readers turned off,'' Mr. Gallagher's deputy, Keith Fuller, said in 1976. ''They were sick of foreign news.''
        During the Vietnam War era, Mr. Gallagher stressed objectivity in the reporting of foreign news. In 1965, in a speech to a group of newspaper editors, he observed that Government officials frequently cited what they called ''the national interest'' in trying to discourage the reporting of unpleasant news from Vietnam and other troubled areas.
        ''We are not a vehicle to serve the 'national interest' as defined by politicians,'' he said, ''but to publish the truth as we see it.''
        In the technical field, Mr. Gallagher oversaw the use of computers in various aspects of the agency's gathering and reporting of the news, along with an acceleration of the transmission of news that was made possible by technological advances. His other innovations included founding a division to compile ''instant'' books about important events.
        Mr. Gallagher was born in San Francisco, graduated from Louisiana State University and worked for newspapers in California, Louisiana and Rochester before joining the agency in 1937 in its Buffalo bureau. He was a daring and respected war correspondent in World War II, and afterward directed the agency's operations in Germany. He was transferred in 1951 to the agency's New York headquarters, where he held a succession of executive posts.
        He is survived by his wife of 51 years, the former Betty Kelley; two daughters, Jane Gallagher of Cresskill, N.J., and Christine Gallagher of Los Angeles, and a son, Brian of Great Falls, Va.
      