
        Esther G. Gottesman, whose service to the Jewish community spanned more than 60 years and who played an important role in the acquisition of the Dead Sea Scrolls for Israel, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Manhattan.
        Mrs. Gottesman's interest and appreciation of the historical importance of the Dead Sea Scrolls led her to recommend to her brother-in-law, D. Samuel Gottesman, that he finance their acquisition and donate them to Israel. The Shrine of the Book was later established at the Israel Museum to display the scrolls.
        A lifelong Zionist, she was a delegate to the first postwar congress of the World Zionist Organization in Basel, Switzerland, in 1946. She was a member of the WZO Action Committee during the formative years of the State of Israel. A supporter of Jewish education, she was active in the Board of Jewish Education in New York for many years.
        A national board member of Hadassah since 1934, Mrs. Gottesman held many positions in the organization, including vice president and treasurer. As a committee chairman, she advocated the idea that the group support the expansion of a vocational educational program from a small high school to a major college, the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem. She donated the college's auditorium and gymnasium and raised funds for it.
        She was also responsible for developing what had been a house newsletter into Hadassah Magazine, and she assembled and arranged publication of the book, ''Great Ages and Ideas of the Jewish People.''
        Mrs. Gottesman was born in Manhattan in 1898, the daughter of Aaron and Sarah Garfunkel. She graduated from New York University in 1921 and married Benjamin Gottesman, a banker and investment manager, the same year. He died in 1979.
        The couple's financial support of Yeshiva University resulted in the establishment of the Mendel Gottesman Library, named after Mr. Gottesman's father, the endowment of a chair in Library Sciences and creation of the Benjamin Gottesman Presidential Lecture Series. The family's involvement with the university covered 75 years.
        She is survived by two sons, David S. Gottesman of Manhattan and Milton M. Gottesman of Washington; two brothers, Harold Garfunkel of Manhattan and Julian Garfunkel of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Florence Roswell of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      