
        Jerome H. Lemelson, a prolific inventor who became a hero to fellow inventors when he dared to force giant corporations to pay him for his ideas, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 74 and lived outside Lake Tahoe, Nev.
        His family said the cause of death was liver cancer.
        Mr. Lemelson was best known for the annual $500,000 awards he created to help redress what he saw as widespread exploitation of inventors. But in a career in which he obtained more than 500 patents covering technologies from automated warehouses to video camcorders and bar code scanners, he spent most of his life struggling to make ends meet.
        To Mr. Lemelson, the American inventor was caught in a Catch 22.
        On one side, as he saw it, were stubborn examiners and other Patent Office officials who dragged out the patent process for years, sometimes forcing him to divide a single idea into numerous separate -- and expensive -- applications covering different industrial processes before he would be legally entitled to collect royalties, often years after products and processes based on his ideas were in widespread use.
        On the other side were corporate executives who argued that because of those very delays they were absolved from paying him his due.
        Even when the law seemed clearly on the inventor's side, as Mr. Lemelson saw it, the legal system often was not. In the few cases when a struggling inventor could stay the course against well-financed corporate legal teams and win a jury award after years of expensive litigation, appellate judges unschooled in the nuances of patent law and unsympathetic to the independent inventor would simply find technical grounds to reverse the judgment.
        In 1992, however, Mr. Lemelson forced a group of Japanese auto makers to pay him $100 million for use of automated manufacturing systems based on refinements of the ''machine vision device'' he had invented almost 40 years earlier.
        A number of European and American manufacturers soon followed suit, bringing Mr. Lemelson's take to more than $500 million, but with General Motors and Chrysler waiting in the wings and millions more at stake, the Ford Motor Company mounted a vigorous legal resistance that has continued despite a Federal court ruling earlier this year that rejected the heart of the company's legal position.
        For Mr. Lemelson, who could hold forth for hours telling war stories of how he and other inventors had been cheated, the wonder was that he kept on inventing in the face of such obstacles.
        But then he was a born inventor who could not keep himself from dreaming up new ideas and pursuing them. A slight, unassuming man, he became famous among his friends for his ever-present notebook and his penchant for suddenly excusing himself while he scribbled down some idea that had just struck him, then asking those present to sign the notebook page as witnesses to his latest brainstorm.
        A native of Staten Island, Mr. Lemelson began inventing early, developing an illuminated tongue depressor for his physician father and demonstrating such a flair for complex engineering and design work that he started a model airplane business in his basement. Before he went to college he was designing weapons and other systems for the Army Air Corps in World War II. After obtaining three engineering degrees from New York University and working on a Navy project there to develop rocket and pulse jet engines, he had a brief career as an industrial engineer before striking out on his own as an independent inventor.
        It is an index of his success that when the last of his patent applications are finally granted, Mr. Lemelson will be second only to Thomas Alva Edison as the nation's most prolific inventor.
        It may have taken years for Mr. Lemelson to reap the rewards of his inventions, but it did not take him long to figure out what to do with his money. In the last few years he and the Dorothy and Jerome Lemelson Foundation he started have given away some $30 million, almost all of it to raise public consciousness about the importance of inventors.
        These include a $10 million gift to the Smithsonian Institution and a $5 million college program to stimulate creativity -- and teach would-be inventors how to protect their intellectual property -- and the award program administered by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        The 1997 award went to the man whose invention of the computer mouse earned only a $10,000 bonus from the company that secured the patent.
        Mr. Lemelson is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two sons, Eric of Portland, Ore., and Robert of Los Angeles; two brothers, Howard of Connecticut and Justin of New York, and two grandchildren.
      