
        Dario Fo, an iconoclastic Italian playwright-performer known for mixing wacky social farce with sharp political satire, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature today, to the guarded amazement of Italy's literary establishment and the outright dismay of the Vatican.
        In its announcement of the $1 million prize, the Swedish Academy likened the 71-year-old Mr. Fo to the ''jesters of the Middle Ages'' who relied on wit, irreverence and even slapstick humor to poke fun at authority while ''upholding the dignity of the downtrodden.''
        Critics have praised Mr. Fo's rare abilities as both writer and performer. ''Imagine a cross between Bertolt Brecht and Lenny Bruce, and you may begin to have an idea of the scope of Fo's anarchic wit,'' Mel Gussow wrote in The New York Times in 1983.
        His one-man tour de force, ''Mistero Buffo'' (''Comic Mystery''), written in 1969, finally had its United States premiere at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan in 1986. It has its stylistic roots in the strolling players and minstrels of the Middle Ages. But it was also a timely satirical blast at religion and politics, delivered in Grammelot, a kind of double-speak masquerading as a language, wholly invented by Mr. Fo himself.
        The Roman Catholic Church has been a frequent target of Mr. Fo's satire, and the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Romano said it was flabbergasted by his selection. ''Giving the prize to someone who is also the author of questionable works is beyond all imagination,'' the paper said.
        Mr. Fo, a longtime member of the Communist Party, and his wife, the writer and actress Franca Rame, were refused entry into the United States in the 1980's under longstanding laws denying visas to people who took part in antigovernment activities or belonged to the Communist Party.
        But the State Department twice granted them waivers, the first in 1984, for the premiere of his play ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist'' on Broadway, where it failed. (The 1970 play had already been a hit in Italy and Britain.) The couple were again allowed to visit the United States in 1986. In 1990, the United States Congress rewrote the laws, eliminating many of the prohibitions on entry, including those that applied to Mr. Fo.
        In 1962, Mr. Fo, then a young actor, provoked his first major controversy with a sketch about Italian workers that was censored by Italian television. His politics became increasingly radical, and he did not appear again on television in his country until 1977, when ''Mistero Buffo'' was first broadcast there. The Vatican called it the ''most blasphemous show in the history of television.''
        Twelve years later, Mr. Fo unveiled another impertinent play, ''The Pope and the Witch,'' featuring a news conference at which the Pope confuses a children's gathering in St. Peter's Square with an abortion rights rally. The play again became a lightning rod for anger when it was staged in San Francisco in 1992.
        In Italy, where his popularity peaked in the 1970's, Mr. Fo remains a well-known personality whose strong political views win him both friends and enemies. Not long ago, at a rally in Milan called to defend Italian unity against the threats of  northern secessionists, he criticized the adulation given Italy's flag of red, white and green, which he said had been used to cover up ''thefts, private interests and the blood of innocents.''
        News of the Nobel Prize reached Mr. Fo as he was driving from Rome,  where he had finished filming a television special, to Milan, where he lives with Ms. Rame.
        News agencies reported that he said, ''I am flabbergasted,'' after a car pulled up alongside his with a sign in the window saying, ''Dario, you have won the Nobel Prize.''
        Mr. Fo later told reporters over the telephone that he found out 15 days ago that he was a Nobel finalist along with the Portuguese writer Jose Saramago.
        ''Certainly it gives me a certain sensation to be in the company of people like Pirandello and Beckett,'' Mr. Fo said. ''I'd be a hypocrite if I told you that I counted on it. I didn't. I didn't expect it at all.''
        The astonishment extended to Italian writers, critics and theatergoers, who in some cases expressed pleasure, in others outrage, at the news that one of the country's playwrights had been so honored.
        ''No one expected this,'' said Carlo Bo, an Italian literary critic and senator. ''What does this mean? Everything changes, even literature changes.''
        Marcello Veneziano, a right-wing intellectual and editorial writer for the Roman newspaper Il Messaggero, insisted that the prize for Mr. Fo was a misprint. ''I think he is a great actor, but everyone has to be recognized for their own worth,'' he said.
        But Giorgio Strehler, Italy's best-known theater director, said the prize to Mr. Fo ''can only give further prestige to Italian literature and our theater.'' Mr. Strehler, the longtime director of the Piccolo Teatro in Milan, said, ''With Dario Fo, we feel honored as Europeans and as men of the theater.''
        The prize to Mr. Fo, while among the most unexpected and controversial in the 97-year history of the award, is not the only one to draw criticism in recent years.
        The selection of the Japanese writer Kenzaburo Oe in 1994 drew complaints that other Japanese writers were more deserving and that the academy was, perhaps, caving into complaints that few Asian writers had been selected. In 1989, some complained that the Spanish writer Camilo Jose Cela did not deserve the prize because he had written little of significance since the mid-1950's.
        But the biggest recent dispute over the award came in 1983, with the selection of the British writer William Golding; critics charged that he wrote little of lasting significance beyond one book, ''The Lord of the Flies.''
        Complaints continue that the award has rarely gone to women or  writers from Africa and Asia, but the academy seemed to be trying to address those complaints in recent years with awards to writers like Mr. Oe and Nadine Gordimer, a South African.
        There was concern in the Swedish press that support for Mr. Fo had come from a relatively small number of voting members of the Swedish Academy, though Sture Allen, the academy secretary, denied that there had been any problem.
        The academy has 18 members, appointed for life, and Mr. Fo was awarded his prize by a vote of 13  members. At least 12 votes are needed to select a winner.
        In 1989 two members began a boycott of academy proceedings after Mr. Allen refused to issue a statement condemning the Government of Iran for calling for the death of the British author Salman Rushdie. That boycott continues. A third member announced last year that he, too, would boycott this year's vote after a dispute with Mr. Allen, whom he accused of being dictatorial.
        Two members of the academy have died in the last year; only one was replaced, but too late to take part in the vote.
        Maria Schottenius, the culture editor of the Stockholm evening paper Expressen, said of the academy, ''If they want the prize to be considered as the highest literary award, they take a great risk.''
        She continued: ''I know that already quite a few of the world's most prestigious literary writers are questioning the prize, wondering what they are doing now. But I think that the academy felt that they could not afford another unknown poet. They need some love from the people.''
        Mr. Fo was born on March 24, 1926, in the tiny town of Leggiuno Sangiano on the banks of Lake Maggiore, where his father was a railway stationmaster and part-time actor.
        ''Culturally, I have always been part of the proletariat,'' Dario Fo told The Guardian, the British newspaper, last year. ''I lived side by side with the sons of glassblowers, fishermen and smugglers. The stories they told were shaper satires about the hypocrisy of authority and the middle classes, the two-facedness of teachers and lawyers and politicians. I was born politicized.''
        Ms. Rame, his wife since 1953, has been his frequent collaborator and co-author of the feminist play ''It's all Bed, Board and Church'' in which she played the sole role.
        His best-known play, ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist,'' which has been translated into dozens of languages, was based on a real event in 1969: a young anarchist, under interrogation by the police as a suspect in a bombing in Milan, fell four stories to his death in what was officially called an accident, although many on the Italian left called it murder. The play takes the plot from there, creating a fictional Hamlet-like character known as the fool who exposes the lies and hypocrisy of officialdom.
        Mr. Fo's other plays include ''Can't Pay, Won't Pay'' (1974), a broadside against capitalism in which housewives strike against against. Another, ''About Face,'' performed by the Yale Repertory Theater in 1982, fantasizes about the possible kidnapping of Giovanni Agnelli, one of Italy's pre-eminent industrialists, and turns into a satire that wraps in mistaken identities, the C.I.A., macrobiotics and the Soviet leader Yuri Andropov.
        Mr. Fo's most recent work, ''The Devil With Boobs,'' which had its premiere in the Sicilian city of Messina in August, is a comedy set in the Renaissance featuring a zealous judge and a woman possessed by the devil.
        In announcing the selection of Mr. Fo, the Swedish Academy called him a playwright whose influence had been considerable.
        ''He if anyone merits the epithet of jester in the true meaning of that word,'' the academy said. ''With a blend of laughter and gravity, he opens our eyes to abuses and injustices in society and also the wider historical perspective in which they can be placed. Fo is an extremely serious satirist with a multifaceted oeuvre.''
      