
        Henry Holt, a conductor and music educator, died on Oct. 4 at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville. He was 63 and lived in Warrenton, Va.
        The cause was pneumonia resulting from a six-year battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said.
        Mr. Holt received international attention as the conductor of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle for 10 consecutive years at the Pacific Northwest Festival in Seattle, which he helped found. While serving as the music director of the Seattle Opera from 1966 to 1984 he helped establish the Pacific Northwest Ballet.
        Mr. Holt was born in Austria, but his family fled to escape the Nazi occupation. He grew up in Los Angeles, where he later served as the music director and then general director of the Los Angeles Opera Theater. During this time he was also the artistic director of the Baton Rouge Opera. Last year he served as the artistic director of the ''Ring'' cycle for the Arizona Opera, and  most recently, he worked with the Utah Festival Opera Company, which last month opened a new center in Logan that will house Mr. Holt's arts education program.
        As a guest conductor, he appeared with the New York City Opera, the Chicago Opera Theater, the San Francisco Opera and many other well-known companies. A champion of new works, he conducted the premiere of Carlisle Floyd's ''Of Mice and Men'' and other American operas.
        Mr. Holt was known for his commitment to children's education in the arts. He worked extensively with the National Guild of Community Schools of the Arts and the Kennedy Center Education Program, and contributed to E. D. Hirsch's national Core Knowledge movement for children's education. He also conducted  opera workshop programs at the University of Southern California, Lewis and Clark College and Louisiana State University.
        He is survived by his wife, Rebecca Ravenshaw-Holt; two stepchildren, Kitran and Devin Colwell, and a sister, Lucy Horwitz of Boston.
      