
        James A. Michener, who survived a Dickensian childhood to win the Pulitzer Prize with his very first book, published when he was about 40, and then became one of America's favorite storytellers with grand-scale novels like ''Hawaii,'' ''The Source'' and ''Texas,'' died in his home in Austin, Texas yesterday. He was about 90.
        Mr. Michener chose to discontinue life-saving kidney dialysis treatment earlier this month and died of complications following renal failure, according to John Kings, a longtime friend and assistant of Mr. Michener's.
        ''He felt he had accomplished what he wanted to accomplish in terms of his life's work,'' Mr. Kings said. ''He did not want to suffer a long series of complications.''
        Mr. Michener's entry in ''Who's Who in America'' says he was born on Feb. 3, 1907. But he said in his 1992 memoirs that the circumstances of his birth remained cloudy and that he did not know just when he was born or who his parents were.
        ''Tales of the South Pacific,'' a collection of stories he began while he was in the Navy during World War II, was his first published fiction and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1948. Although it later became a classic Broadway musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein and a successful film, it was not a best seller at first.
        It was not until Mr. Michener moved from his brief tales of people to his monumental sagas of places -- beginning with ''Hawaii'' in 1959 -- that he became one of those rare writers whose books are snatched up by the book clubs and become almost automatic best sellers even before they hit the book stores. As of late 1992, he was one of only eight authors who had written six or more No. 1 best sellers in the half-century history of the weekly New York Times best-seller list.
        In the years after ''Hawaii,'' Mr. Michener was often scorned by critics even as he achieved a huge and appreciative following. Expertly applying his tried-and-true formula, he wove big, old-fashioned narratives involving generations of fictional families as they moved through expertly documented events in history.  As a writer, he liked to celebrate the all-American virtues of patriotism, frugality, common sense and courage and to enrich his episodic, educational fiction with the geological origins and prehistory of the territory he staked out as his subject.
        To gather information for his books, Mr. Michener often moved to the place he wanted to write about, soaking up atmosphere and collecting detailed information. In 1981, for example, he accepted an invitation from Gov. William P. Clements Jr. to write about Texas. He moved to the state from Maryland, where he had spent several years researching and writing ''Chesapeake'' (1978).
        When ''Texas'' appeared in 1985, its 1,096 pages made it heftier than any previous Michener work, and its publisher, Random House, said that the first printing of 750,000 copies was the largest in the company's history. Mr. Michener was about 78 when ''Texas'' came out, and his health was becoming precarious, but he immediately took on another huge subject for his next book.
        He and his wife had decided to settle near Austin, where the University of Texas had named him a professor emeritus, but they spent part of 1985 in Sitka, Alaska, to do research for his 1988 historical novel, ''Alaska,'' which swept from the mastodon era to modern times. He followed ''Alaska'' the next year with  ''Journey,'' a novel about four men on a trip from England to the Klondike during the 1897 gold rush.
        ''Storytelling came naturally to me,'' he said. It was a gift that made him a multimillionaire, for in addition to the phenomenal total sales of hardcover and paperback editions of his 40-odd books, a number were sold to be movies and television programs -- including ''Centennial'' (1974), on Colorado's history, ''Space'' (1982), about the space program, and ''Texas.''
        Typical of the critics' response to most of Mr. Michener's work was that of Orville Prescott of The New York Times, who wrote of ''Hawaii'' when it was published in 1959: ''It may never make literary history, but for some time it has been making publishing history.'' The novel was selected by the Book-of-the-Month Club and the Reader's Digest Condensed Book Club, and it was sold for $1 million for a movie that starred Julie Andrews, Max von Sydow, Richard Harris and Gene Hackman.
        The Micheners had lived in Hawaii for some years, and in his novel Mr. Michener sought to show that the islands had been able to harmonize different cultures and races and to set an example that could benefit the rest of the United States. However, two years after the publication of ''Hawaii,'' Mr. Michener and his wife, Mari, the daughter of Japanese immigrants, left the islands.
        ''On the day-to-day operating level at which my wife and I lived,'' he said at the time, ''we met with more racial discrimination in Hawaii than we did in eastern Pennsylvania, where we had previously lived.''
        James Albert Michener, a mild-mannered man who could have been mistaken for the small-town teacher he once was, was born in New York City, according to his entry in ''Who's Who.'' But in a 1985 interview with Caryn James of The New York Times, he said he had no definite information about his birth. ''I have no idea who I am,'' he said. ''I know what I was told, that I was a foundling.''
        According to his 1992 autobiography, ''The World Is My Home: A Memoir'' he was taken in by Mabel Haddock Michener, a poor young widow, and raised alongside other children who came and went from her home in Doylestown, Pa. ''My mother made her living by taking in orphaned children and doing other families' laundry,'' he wrote.
        In later years, he said, he sought  more specific information about who he was because he lacked the birth certificate needed to obtain a passport. ''In such circumstances,'' he wrote, ''it is common to hire a lawyer who will interrogate neighbors to establish the earliest possible date at which the child was known to have been in the community.''
        And so, he recounted, he engaged a lawyer in Doylestown ''who proved that I had lived in that town since the age of 2.'' In addition, Mr. Michener reported, ''It was generally believed that I had been born in New York and had arrived in town when I was about two weeks old.'' He wrote that he had fallen into Mrs. Michener's home ''one way or another.''
        Despite his childhood poverty, he said he felt loved and inspired by Mabel Michener, a Quaker who read aloud to him from 19th-century novels, especially Dickens. Mr. Michener wrote movingly about the experiences of his childhood in his second, highly autobiographical novel, ''The Fires of Spring'' (1949).
        He was a footloose youth. ''As a kid of 14 I bummed across the country on nickels and dimes,'' he recalled. ''Before I was 20, I had seen all the states but Washington, Oregon and Florida. I had an insatiable love of hearing people tell stories, and what they didn't tell I made up.''
        At Swarthmore College, on a scholarship, he majored in English and history, receiving a bachelor's degree with highest honors in 1929.
        It was also at Swarthmore, he recounted, that he learned from an acquaintance for the first time that he was adopted. John P. Hayes, in a biography of Mr. Michener, maintained that he was, in fact, Mabel Michener's illegitimate son. Asked about that possibility, Mr. Michener told The Times: ''I don't know whether it's true or not.''
        Later he taught at the George School in Newtown, Pa., where a friendly Quaker woman who was on its board gave him advice that he said helped him form his philosophy of education. He quoted her: ''Thee is too conservative. Thee has these children only a few years of their lives. Thee must tell them more.''
        Soon after he joined Macmillan Publishing Company in New York as a textbook editor in 1941, Japanese military forces attacked Pearl Harbor and, he said, ''I waived my Quaker principles and volunteered for service.'' He began as a Navy enlisted man, but he soon became an officer and was made a ''super-secretary'' to an aviation maintenance unit in the Solomon Islands.
        It was mostly humdrum duty, Mr. Michener said. To while away the time in the afternoon, he drafted the outlines of ''some stories that disturbed me.'' At night he turned the outlines into the short stories that became ''Tales of the South Pacific,'' published in 1947.
        By then Mr. Michener was back at his job at Macmillan, but not for long.  The hardcover edition of ''Tales of the South Pacific'' had only modest sales -- 25,000 copies, despite the Pulitzer Prize -- but the wildly popular 1949 musical ''South Pacific,'' based on the Michener stories, turned the paperback version of the book into a runaway best seller of more than two million copies. The musical, which starred Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza, won another Pulitzer Prize, ran for 1,925 performances and was made into a popular movie in 1958.
        Mr. Michener was around 40 when his first book was published. Several years later, he said that if an aspirant ''hasn't published a book by the time he is 35, he's not likely ever to amount to anything as a writer,'' adding that the ''accident of the war may have delayed me.'' He continued: ''Writing is hard for me. I'm weak on style, plot and form -- all the things you're supposed to be good at. Also I start a great deal that I don't finish. But I always have a great backlog I want to write about. I can't ever conceive of running out of ideas. They crowd me.''
        After his initial success, his name reappeared on best-seller lists again and again, decade after decade, on into the 1990's Among the books that followed ''South Pacific'' were ''Return to Paradise,'' a collection of travel writings and short stories, and ''The Voice of Asia,'' both published in 1951; ''The Bridges at Toko-Ri,'' 1953; ''Sayonara,'' 1954; ''Floating World,'' 1955; ''The Bridge at Andau,'' 1957; ''Caravans,'' a novel set in 1946 in Afghanistan, 1963; ''The Source,'' a novel, covering 12,000 years of history, about life in and around what became an Israeli town, 1965; ''Iberia,'' a highly regarded travel book on Spain and Portugal, 1968; ''Kent State,'' 1971; ''Sports in America,'' 1976; ''Poland,'' 700 years of history in novel form, 1983; ''Legacy,'' a brief novel about an Army major called to testify at the Iran-contra hearings and about his patriot forebears, 1987; ''Caribbean,'' a novel recounting Caribbean history, 1989; ''The Novel,'' a fictional study of book publishers and kindred souls, 1991; ''Mexico,'' a novel in which an American journalist learns Mexican history, 1992; ''Literary Reflections,'' a collection of Mr. Michener's occasional writings, 1993; and ''Recessional,'' a 1994 novel that addressed issues linked with aging in America.
        His last fictional work appeared in 1995, a short novel of the supernatural called ''Miracle in Seville,'' set in the Spanish bullfighting world. Allen Josephs, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called it ''a vintage demonstration of Michener storytelling.'' A nonfiction work about his vision of the United States, ''This Noble Land,'' was published last year.
        Resourcefully, Mr. Michener also  drew on his experiences in politics during the early 1960's. Having returned from Hawaii to live near Doylestown, he became an avid campaign worker for the election of John F. Kennedy to the Presidency in 1960. In 1962, he ran for Congress as a Democrat, seeking to unseat Representative Willard S. Curtin, the Republican incumbent from the House district embracing Doylestown. He was unsuccessful.
        He wrote about his 1960 electioneering in ''Report of the County Chairman'' (1961) and he turned out a thoughtful book on how Americans choose their President, ''Presidential Lottery,'' in 1969.
        Mr. Michener suffered a serious heart attack in 1964, but his recovery was excellent and he continued writing. He eased his workload by employing researchers and an editor to take care of much of the detail work he had previously done himself.
        His reaction to his monumental success as an author has been described by friends as ''humble.'' He remained haunted by his years of poverty. He told Ms. James: ''They have a deeper impact on someone like me than people realize. It makes you more dour, more tightly ingrained. It inhibits you. . . . I live as if I had stayed on my job and retired on a small pension and some savings and security.''
        Mr. Michener gave much of his money away and was generous to young writers. The Associated Press reported in 1994 that his wife, Mari,  had played a major role in directing donations by him that had totaled more than $100 million. The beneficiaries included Swarthmore College, the University of Texas, the Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa and The Authors League Fund.
        By 1992, the Micheners had given more than $37 million to the University of Texas -- the most ever given to that university by a single donor. The university exhibits a collection of 20th-century American art valued at several million dollars donated and lent by the Micheners along with an endowment to acquire more. The Micheners' collection of more than 1,500 Japanese prints has gone to the University of Hawaii. In February 1996, he pledged $5.5 million to the art museum in Doylestown that bears his name and to other cultural institutions in Pennsylvania. Earlier this month, it was announced that the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley, where he received a master's degree in 1937, would be the only recipient of his manuscripts, personal documents, notes and other items totaling 60,000.
        Mr. Michener's 1935 marriage to Patti Koon ended in divorce in 1948, and his 1948 marriage to Vange Nord ended in divorce in 1955. Later that year he married Mari Yoriko Sabusawa, an editor who as the American daughter of Japanese parents had been in a detention camp in World War II. She died in 1994. He had no surviving children.
        Despite the scope of his philanthropy, he described himself in a 1989 interview simply as ''a storyteller.''  He added, ''I'm sure that in the dawn of civilization, I would have gone out with the hunters, then stayed behind a safe tree and at night explained how it all happened.''
      