
        Dr. Edgar Haber, a specialist in immunology and cardiovascular diseases noted for his work in protein chemistry and biotechnology, died on Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the Harvard School of Public Health.
        Dr. Haber was a former chief of cardiology at Massachusetts General and president of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute. At his death he was the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences and a clinical professor of medicine at Harvard.
        His work added to the understanding of the structure and activity of proteins, the building blocks of life.
        While working with Dr. Christian Anfinsen at the National Institutes of Health from 1958 to 1961, he established that the three-dimensional structure of the enzyme ribonuclease is governed by the information in the sequence of its amino acids, a finding that is now a fundamental tenet of molecular biology.
        Their team effort implied that all the information needed for determining an enzyme's three-dimensional shape lay in the linear sequence of bases in the gene. The importance of that research was recognized when Dr. Anfinsen was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1972.
        In 1964, Dr. Haber started a 24-year tenure as chief of the cardiac unit at Massachusetts General. He is credited with transforming the unit from a relatively small clinical ward into a leading research center.
        While he was rising through the academic ranks at Harvard Medical School, Dr. Haber established his reputation as an immunologist. His discoveries included assays for digoxin, a form of digitalis used to improve the heart's pumping action, and for renin, a kidney enzyme. He also contributed to clinical cardiology and the advances made in heart catheterization, echocardiography and nuclear imaging.
        In 1988, he became president of the Squibb institute, where he oversaw the merger of research and development of Squibb and Bristol-Myers into one of the world's top pharmaceutical research enterprises. He returned to academia in 1990 and, as Blout Professor, directed the Division of Biological Sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health.  There he founded and directed the Center of Cardiovascular Disease as an interdisciplinary base for researchers working in biology and epidemiology.
        Born in Berlin, Edgar Haber came to New York as a boy. He received a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Columbia College in 1952, and his medical degree at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons four years later. He published some 550 papers on cardiology, basic immunology and molecular biology.
        He is survived by his wife, Carol Avery Haber; three sons, Justin A., of Waban, Mass., Graham S., of Manhattan, and Eben M., of Palo Alto, Calif.; his mother, Dorothy J. Haber, of Yonkers, and a sister, Dr. Ruth H. Jonas, of Manhattan.
      