
        John Peters, who gained an international reputation for spiritual leadership as the supreme medicine man of the Wampanoag nation while making secular waves across the nation as the executive director of the Massachusetts Commission on Indian Affairs, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Boston. He was 67 and known also as Cjegktoonuppa, or Slow Turtle.
        The cause was emphysema, his family said.
        A descendant of the Indians who greeted the Pilgrims upon their arrival in 1620, Mr. Peters was born in a hospital in Hyannis but grew up in the nearby Cape Cod town of Mashpee, where his branch of the Wampanoag Indians, now numbering about 1,200, have clung tenaciously to their native customs and religious practices.
        His family had long been prominent in tribal affairs and until recently in Cape Cod politics. Mr. Peters's father, for example, served for 25 years as a selectman in Mashpee, a town dominated by the Wampanoags until about 25 years ago, when an influx of newcomers broke their power base.
        As a child, Mr. Peters became an apprentice to Billy James, the Mashpee medicine man, succeeding him by the time he was 20 years old received the title of supreme medicine man of the half-dozen branches of the Wampanoag 10 years ago.
        Despite the medicine man title, Mr. Peters was more priest than medical practitioner, presiding in full regalia, including feathered headdress, at funerals, naming ceremonies and a variety of tribal gatherings including the annual Mashpee powwow in July.
        The position was unpaid, so Mr. Peters, who did not go to college, supported himself by becoming a heavy-equipment operator and running his own contracting company.
        Mr. Peters's official post, created in 1974 to provide a liaison with the state's Indian tribes, was virtually a one-man operation, but Mr. Peters, who became a familiar figure at the Statehouse, extended his influence far beyond Massachusetts.
        Attending conferences on Indian affairs across the country, he worked with other Indian leaders on a variety of common interests. Even before becoming executive director of the commission he had helped generate political support for the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978, which recognized Indian religious practices, including the use of peyote in Southwestern rituals, and the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, which requires that Indian orphans or children taken from neglectful parents be placed in Indian homes.
        One of his most significant political successes was the passage of legislation, first in Massachusetts and eventually in Congress, requiring the return of Indians' skeletal remains to their tribes.
        The state law applies only to remains uncovered in areas like construction sites, while the Federal law, known as the Native American Graves Repatriation Act, also covers museum acquisitions and discoveries. Many museums have been forced to surrender skeletons and cultural artifacts that had been on exhibit for years.
        Curiously, though Mr. Peters had a hand in writing the Federal law, it does not apply to his own tribe because the Mashpee Wampanoags are not recognized by the Federal Government. But leaders of the Mashpee Wampanoags insist that the tribe meets all the requirements.
        Federal recognition is limited to tribes that have had a continuous history of tribal organization since the early 1800's.
        Mr. Peters, who was married three times, is survived by his wife, Bernadette; five daughters, Anyta Lena Little of Barnstable, Mass., Ramona Louise Peters of Mashpee, Kyla Ward of New Hampshire, Autaquay Peters of Boston and Aquaya Peters of Boston; seven sons, John Jr., of Mashpee, Carl Amos Peters of Westchester County, N.Y., William James Peters of Bellingham, Wash., Ray Edward Peters of Mashpee, Scott Gary Peters, Robin Tumpum Ferustrom Peters of Sweden and Michael Toomey of Cambridge, Mass.; two brothers, Russell of Brookline, Mass., and Randolf of Mashpee; four sisters, Amelia Bingham, Amanda McKinney and Clara Keliinui, all of Mashpee, and Anne Brown of Dumphries, Va.; 15 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      