
        Brother James Bonilla, principal of Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Brooklyn for the last 12 years, died on Friday at Brooklyn Hospital Center. He was 60.
        He suffered a heart attack at Brothers' House, his residence adjacent to the school, according to his order, the Brothers of the Christian Schools.
        Brother James, a 1955 graduate of the high school, which is in the Fort Greene section, was named to head Bishop Loughlin Memorial in 1985. His leadership and the quality of education at the parochial school have figured in the jousts of another graduate, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, with what he has called the ''labyrinthine bureaucracy'' of the city's public school system.
        ''Brother James was a great leader who did a terrific job,'' the Mayor said yesterday, adding that he was ''very grateful'' for the way Brother James had upheld standards at the school. Mr. Giuliani, who has remained close to the school, declared his first -- and unsuccessful -- mayoral candidacy in 1989 in the auditorium.
        ''The school has changed in one respect, in terms of the student body, which is now 97 percent, 98 percent minority,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''But its performance has been as good or better than it has ever been. The students all graduate, and 90 percent go on to college.''
        The Mayor was scheduled to speak last evening at a funeral Mass at Queen of All Saints Church, near the school. He graduated from it in 1961, when it was known as an elite school ranked with Stuyvesant High School, the public system's crown jewel.
        Bishop Loughlin Memorial, with a student body of just less than 1,000, went coeducational in 1973. It remains selective compared not only with public schools, which admit one and all, but with parochial schools elsewhere.
        For many years, applicants have been culled from among the top-rated pupils of each Catholic parish, and students must qualify through entrance exams or staff interviews.
        James Bonilla was born in Brooklyn, joined the Christian Brothers after high school and took final vows in 1962. He received a bachelor's degree in French from Catholic University of America in 1960 and a master's degree in Spanish at Middlebury College in 1966.
        One of his first assignments was as a teacher and coach for Cuban-American students at La Salle High School in Miami. Until 1976, he served at the La Salle Military Academy in Oakdale, N.Y., as teacher, commandant of cadets and, finally, headmaster. He subsequently worked with youthful offenders at St. Gabriel's Hall in Audobon, Pa.
        At Bishop Loughlin Memorial, Brother James was credited with strengthening the St. James-Bishop Loughlin Alumni Society. He also refurbished the school track and handball courts and coached the Loughlin handball team for the last few years.
        Brother James is survived by two brothers, Joseph Barreda of Albuquerque, N.M., and John Barreda of Chino, Calif., and a sister, Diane Barreda of Santa Fe, N.M.
      