
        Paul Doughty Bartlett, a chemist known for his insights into the mechanics of organic reactions, died on Saturday at a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. A former resident of Weston, Mass., and Fort Worth, he was 90.
        Dr. Bartlett retired from Harvard University in 1975 as Erving Professor emeritus of Chemistry after more than 40 years on the faculty. He continued his work for another 10 years as Robert Welch research professor at Texas Christian University.
        He established that the details of reaction mechanisms, much like molecular structures, can be experimentally ascertained. He worked out the steps and the nature of the intermediates by which certain chemical reactions proceed and the effect of the architecture of a molecule on its reactivity.
        Dr. Bartlett investigated the chemistry of elemental sulfur and the terpenes, a family of hydrocarbons found in the essential oil of plants. His studies also helped chart the behavior of free radicals, highly reactive molecules or atoms that can be associated with aging and cancer. In addition, he shed new light on the kinetics, or dynamics, of polymerization reactions, helping to explain the process of chaining many simple molecules to form a more complex one with different physical properties.
        Dr. Bartlett published more than 200 papers in chemical journals, along with four book chapters and a 1965 textbook on nonclassical ions.
        The American Chemical Society presented him with its Award in Pure Chemistry in 1938, when he was a 30-year-old assistant professor. It cited him for ''notable progress in the important borderline field between organic and physical chemistry.''
        Dr. Bartlett went on to receive the Roger Adams Award and Willard Gibbs Medal in 1963, the Linus Pauling Medal in 1975 and the Nichols Medal in 1976. He received the National Medal of Science, the United States' highest distinction in the sciences, in 1968 for advancing the understanding of the mechanisms by which chemical reactions take place and for his success in training young teachers and researchers.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, as well as an honorary member of learned societies in Europe and Japan.
        Dr. Bartlett was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., graduated from Amherst College in 1938 and earned his Ph.D. in chemistry at Harvard in 1931. He started his academic career at the Rockefeller Institute, Columbia University and the University of Minnesota before he joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor in 1934.
        Dr. Bartlett is survived by two daughters, Joanna B. Kennedy of Waltham, Mass., and Sarah B. Hester of Jericho, Vt.; a son, Geoffrey M., of Ridgefield, Conn., and seven grandchildren. His wife, Mary Court Bartlett, died in 1989 after 58 years of marriage.
      