
        Dave Marr, the jocular Texan who won the 1965 Professional Golfers' Association Championship and then traded on that victory and his homespun wit to forge a career as a television commentator, died of cancer yesterday. He was 63.
        Marr, who was first treated for cancer in 1988, died at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He had been in poor health since undergoing surgery for stomach cancer in June 1995.
        A contemporary of Arnold Palmer, Billy Casper, Gary Player and the young Jack Nicklaus in the 1950's and 60's, Marr never came close to their success as a touring professional. He won only four events, but his victory at age 31 in the P.G.A., one of golf's four major championships, became a signature achievement that, along with his popularity among other players and fans, transformed him into an ambassador for the sport.
        With a natural gift for storytelling and self-deprecating humor, Marr made an easy transition into broadcasting when his playing career began to wind down in the late 1960's. He joined ABC in 1972 and by 1975 was paired with Jim McKay and working full time as a golf analyst. He remained with the network until  1991; in recent years he returned to the broadcast booth, first with the BBC and then NBC.
        During those years Marr also was much in demand as host and master of ceremonies at golf banquets and charity events.
        In 1981 he was the nonplaying captain of the United States team for the Ryder Cup, the biennial competition against European golfers. With players like Nicklaus, Tom Watson and Lee Trevino in their prime, Marr had one of the strongest American teams ever, and he guided it to a crushing 18 1/2-9 1/2 defeat of the Europeans.
        Marr played in one Ryder Cup, in 1965, finishing his six matches with a 4-2 record. Combined with his P.G.A. Championship victory, that made it his finest season, and he was named the Professional Golfers' Association player of the year. But he never deluded himself about his talent compared with that of the best golfers of his day.
        ''I was a very good player,'' he said in a 1996 interview with The Herald of Glasgow, Scotland. ''If I played well, there weren't 10 players who could beat me.'' But he acknowledged that he could not beat Nicklaus, Palmer and Trevino if they were playing their best; recalling the finish of his P.G.A Championship victory, when he held off a less-than-spectacular Nicklaus on the back nine, Marr said, ''I needed him to stub his toe.''
        Marr believed he had two failings as a player: his slight build and his temper. He believed that both traits emanated from his father, Dave, a club pro at a small nine-hole course outside Houston. ''We butted heads,'' Marr said of his father in an interview in the September issue of Golf Digest magazine. ''I don't think I ever finished a round of golf with my father. He had a bad temper and mine was worse.''
        At 19 he left college and turned professional. He traveled to New York and ended up as an assistant club pro to Claude Harmon at the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        Harmon had a legendary ability to groom young assistants, and Marr blossomed at Winged Foot. Meanwhile, he became more of a New Yorker while retaining his wry Southern sensibilities. Asked once about the huge trap that guards Winged Foot's 10th green, Marr said, ''When I was an assistant there, they delivered my mail in that bunker.''
        His fondness for New York City and its social life never left him.  Marr was a regular on the Manhattan social scene, dining with Bing Crosby, socializing with Frank Gifford and frequenting P. J. Clarke's with the golf writer Dan Jenkins and others. Jenkins eventually came to call him ''the pro of 52d Street.''
        Marr said he tried to ''just be informational in a quiet way'' as a broadcaster. He had a gentle, noncritical style. When ABC dismissed him six years ago, there was speculation within the sports broadcasting industry that his style was too gentle. Eventually, he signed on with the BBC and NBC. Since his surgery two years ago, he had lost weight and stamina and stopped working.
        Asked in the Golf Digest interview how he hoped history's assessment of him would read, Marr said: ''He wasn't as great as maybe he thought he was. He wasn't as bad as some of his detractors thought. He did help a few people. He tried to do right as best he could.''
        Marr is survived by his wife, Tally; two sons, David and Anthony; a daughter, Elizabeth Hallas, and two stepsons, Wayne and Tucker Bunch.
      