
        John Whitney Hall, the missionaries' child who became a pioneer in the field of Japanese studies and one of the most respected historians of Japan of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Robin.
        An authority on pre-modern Japan, Professor Hall helped transform the way Western scholars view the period immediately preceding Japan's modernization as well as the thousand years before that.
        But he was also something of an academic entrepreneur, building up the fledgling field of Japanese studies in the years after World War II and serving as a bridge linking historians in Japan with historians in the West.
        As a professor at the University of Michigan and later at Yale, he trained many of the top scholars in Japanese history today now working in academic programs across the country that Professor Hall helped make possible.
        ''What I think guys like Hall tried to do was de-exoticize the study of Japan,'' said Harry Harootunian, a professor of history and director of East Asian Studies at New York University and a former student of Professor Hall's. ''To de-exoticize anything is to bring it closer to us, to eliminate the distance that we imagine exists between ourselves and the object of our study.''
        The only son of Congregational missionaries, Professor Hall was born in Kyoto in 1916 and lived in Japan until he was a teenager. He then attended Phillips Andover Academy and Amherst College, where he majored in American studies, comparing the United States to Japan.
        Upon graduation, he spent two years at Doshisha University in Japan, then became one of the first graduate students to study under Edwin O. Reischauer, another missionary's son and a pioneering Japan scholar at Harvard who went on to become ambassador to Japan.
        According to Mrs. Hall, Professor Hall had once visited the United States with his parents as a child and had been appalled by how little Americans knew about Japan. That experience, she said, contributed to his decision to try to help the West to better understand Japan.
        ''Being brought up in Japan and by missionaries, he was a very straight-arrow kind of person,'' said Mrs. Hall, who was married to Professor Hall for 55 years. ''There is this kind of missionary feeling, that you must make something of this, not just throw it away.''
        In 1948, Professor Hall went to work at the University of Michigan, one of the few American universities that had a significant program in his field. There, he became director of the Center for Japanese Studies and a founder of the first American research venture in post-war Japan.
        Through that program, a field research station in Okayama, Professor Hall spent a year in Japan in 1952 and became the first person to begin examining the voluminous records of one of the feudal groups that had ruled Japan during the early modern period between 1600 and 1868.
        He became an expert in that period, identifying along with several other scholars the seeds of Japan's subsequent industrialization and modernization -- findings that challenged the traditional Western view that that period had been nothing more than Japan's rather backward, final feudal age.
        ''They found peasants producing for the market, rather than peasants who were simply serfs,'' said Jeffrey P. Mass, a professor at Stanford and a former student of Professor Hall's. ''They found an extraordinarily high degree of literacy. They found a receptiveness, within limits, to new ideas.''
        Professor Hall later became the principal organizer of a six-volume, multi-author work on the modernization of Japan -- a series that set the agenda for studies of Japanese history for the next two decades, according to Marius B. Jansen, an emeritus professor of Japanese history at Princeton.
        In 1961, Professor Hall moved to Yale. Five years after that, he published his most famous book, ''Government and Local Power in Japan, 500 to 1700,'' which traced the development of Okayama during that time and, some say, opened up the first thousand years of Japanese history to the English-speaking world.
        Until then, little was known about that period in the West. ''Scholarly books rarely have a shelf life of more than a generation,'' Professor Mass said. ''But this is a book that has always been on my syllabus and probably always will be.''
        During the 1960's and 1970's, Professor Hall became a leader in many of the organizations that were working to build up the field of Japanese studies, attempting to represent the interests of the field in order to get support from universities, foundations and the Japanese government.
        He served as chairman of the Japan-United States Conference on Educational and Cultural Interchange, founder and chairman of the Japan-United States Friendship Committee, and chairman of the Social Science Research Council/Joint Committee on Japanese Studies.
        Professor Hall also worked closely with the Japan Foundation, which was set up by the Japanese government in the 1970's to help American universities establish Japanese studies programs and which eventually gave $1 million to 10 major universities for activities in the field.
        Professor Hall was a recipient of the Order of the Sacred Treasure, one of the highest Japanese decorations, which one colleague said could be described as a kind of scholarly knighthood. He also received the American Historical Association's award for scholarly distinction.
        A quiet, self-contained man, whom Professor Mass described as a master punster, Professor Hall was a great admirer of Japanese culture and amassed a large collection of prints, folk art and pottery. He was also an experienced mountain climber who had climbed extensively in the Japanese Alps.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Hall is survived by two daughters, Jennifer Dean Hall of Tucson and Lynn Bolce Hall of San Francisco; a son, Jonathan Whitney Hall of Phoenix; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      