
        Dr. Bernard Altshuler, a mathematician who helped lay the groundwork for understanding how the lung is damaged by polluting particles and carcinogens, died on Oct. 4 at his country home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A Manhattan resident, he was 78.
        The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Lillian.
        Work by Dr. Altshuler, a professor at the Institute for Environmental Medicine at the New York University School of Medicine, helps environmental scientists determine how much of an airborne pollutant stays in the lungs after it is inhaled and how to predict the incidence of lung cancer after a particular level of exposure to a carcinogen. That research began in the 1950's and continued into the 70's.
        Dr. Altshuler was one of the first mathematicians to study environmental problems, said Dr. Roy E. Albert, who worked with him at New York University and recently retired as chairman of the environmental health department at the University of Cincinnati.
        ''He was a first-class mathematician who actually got into the laboratory and did experimental work himself, not just analysis, which was highly unusual,'' Dr. Albert said.
        Dr. E. D. Palmes, who retired from N.Y.U. and works part time at  Oregon State University in Corvallis, collaborated with Dr. Altshuler on the study of aerosols, which are tiny airborne particles. They did their first inhalation tests on themselves, then studied other people, healthy and diseased, Dr. Palmes said. Referring to the work, he said, ''There's still a lot of interest in industry, as it develops respiratory protection for workers in dusty trades.''
        Dr. Altshuler also did epidemiological studies of smokers and uranium workers, developing models to predict the incidence of lung cancer. And he looked at radon's effects on different areas of the lung and correlated levels of damage with the development of lung cancer. He served on many boards advising the Federal Government on pollution and radiation questions.
        Dr. Altshuler, born in 1919 in Newark, received a bachelor's degree in physics from Lehigh University in 1940 and a Ph.D. in mathematics from N.Y.U. in 1953. He became an instructor at the Institute of Environmental Medicine two years before he received his doctorate. He worked there until his death.
        His survivors include his wife and two daughters, Jean, of Hoboken, N.J., and Miriam, of Brooklyn.
      