
        Marvin Rothenberg, a director who staged some of the most memorable television moments of the 1950's and 60's -- all during commercial breaks -- died last Thursday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 79.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        If his career had followed the script of his boyhood dreams, Mr. Rothenberg would undoubtedly have gravitated to Hollywood to make feature films.
        But then he would have missed out on the chance to make television history in New York directing the dancing cigarettes for Lucky Strike or the Commander Whitehead campaign for Schweppes, not to mention making Dash detergent's ''Charlie the repairman'' and Palmolive liquid detergent's ''Madge the manicurist'' household names.
        If he never became a household name himself, Mr. Rothenberg did not suffer in obscurity. At a time when the explosive growth of television had caught Madison Avenue off guard, he became such an accomplished and sought-after director that he helped form and operate what became the industry's largest commercial studio, MPO Television Films (later MPO Videotronics), which turned out as many as 2,000 commercials a year.
        As a boy growing up in Manhattan in the 1920's and 30's, Mr. Rothenberg, whose father was a Warner Brothers booking salesman, haunted the movie palaces of the day, coming away with such an ambition to direct that he helped organize the Film and Sprocket Society at City College, worked a year turning out short features for Warner Brothers and then wrote and directed Army training films, as well as filming combat in Europe in World War II.
        For a while after the war, it appeared that Mr. Rothenberg might make it to Hollywood. He produced film versions of two Gian Carlo Menotti operas, ''The Medium'' and ''The Telephone.''
        But the ballooning demand for television commercials in the late 1940's brought him too many opportunities in New York to pass up.
        At a company known as Transfilm he became a crucial link between New York ad agencies and the Hollywood studios, which created many of the first major television campaigns.
        For a while, commercials in New York were made in rented studios with rented equipment by freelance specialists assembled project by project. By the mid-1950's, however, Mr. Rothenberg was so well established that he and some partners made a daring innovation, creating MPO, a production company with its own studios and a staff of directors, choreographers, film editors, art directors and other specialists.
        Other companies followed suit, but MPO became the industry giant, sometimes producing half the commercials created by large ad agencies like Young & Rubicam, and becoming a veritable training ground for a generation of film makers who later made careers in Hollywood.
        The MPO partners made it a point to hire actors and others who had been blacklisted by the big studios in the McCarthy era, and Mr. Rothenberg made a special effort to hire black film makers and technicians at a time when they were generally not welcome in Hollywood.
        Mr. Rothenberg, whose friends were awed by his ability to identify a bit player in a movie made 40 years before, had such an eye for talent that he became known as something of a casting genius, although part of his genius was his ability to make actors shine through his version of the Actors Studio's famous ''Method'' of total immersion in a role.
        As Mr. Rothenberg once explained, ''Even though they only have to hold up a white shirt or munch on some product, they have to know the meaning of what they're doing.''
        A master who knew how to coax a bravura performance out of a young actor hired to pour a glass of beer exactly right (in a single, fluid motion, keeping the label at the fore), Mr. Rothenberg also had a special knack for working with established stars and other celebrities who found their way into television commercials, among them Eisenhower, Eleanor Roosevelt, Claudette Colbert, Edward G. Robinson, Frank Sinatra, Lucille Ball and Groucho Marx.
        As the commercial industry moved away from the studio system, MPO left the business in the mid-1970's, but Mr. Rothenberg kept going, first with his own production company, then as a freelance director.
        Mr. Rothenberg, whose marriage ended in divorce, is survived by two daughters, Ellen, of Chicago, and Amy Snyder of Natick, Mass.; a son, Paul, of San Clemente, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      