
        John N. Sturdivant, president of the American Federation of Government Employees, which represents 600,000 Federal workers, died on Tuesday night in Falls Church, Va.  He was 59 and lived in Vienna, Va.
        The cause was leukemia, said Bobby L. Harnage, the union's secretary-treasurer.
        In his nine years heading a union that represents about two-thirds of Federal employees, Mr. Sturdivant devoted his energies to persuading the nation that Government employees are not pointy-headed bureaucrats.
        While many union members urged him to fight President Clinton's plan to re-invent Government, Mr. Sturdivant decided to be a partner with the Administration, and especially with Vice President Al Gore, to figure out how to streamline the Federal work force, while minimizing pain to employees.
        Once when Mr. Gore visited him while he was undergoing chemotherapy, Mr. Sturdivant said, ''Only in America could a poor black kid end up with the Vice President of the United States visiting him in the hospital.''
        He was one of the few blacks to head a major national union.
        When the Federal Government was shut down two years ago as a result of a budgetary confrontation  between President Clinton and Congress, Mr. Sturdivant frequently used it as an opportunity to remind  Congress and the public how important Federal employees are.
        Referring to the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Mr. Sturdivant said: ''If anything positive can come out of the despicable act in Oklahoma, it is that we are not bureaucrats. We are mothers and fathers, we have kids, we work hard for our money, we are dedicated to doing our jobs for the American people, and we should not be bashed.''
        John Nathan Studivant was born in Philadelphia on June 30, 1938. When he enlisted in 1956 in the Air Force, it misspelled his name as Sturdivant, and he kept that spelling. He began his civilian career in 1961, working for the Army Interagency Communications Agency in Winchester, Va.
        Soon after taking his Government job, he became involved in union activities, serving as president of a local in Virginia from 1968 to 1976. In 1976, he became a staff worker with the union's national office in Washington, soon rising to the position of organizing director.
        In 1980, he received his bachelor's degree in labor studies from Antioch College.
        Two years later, he was elected the union's executive vice president, and in 1988, he challenged the union's sitting president and won the top post in a close election.
        The union has 210,000 dues-paying members, but represents another 390,000 Federal workers who do not pay dues. The union represents a cross section of workers, including border guards, astronauts and white-collar employees in the Social Security Administration.
        His marriage to Muriel Sturdivant ended in divorce in 1989.
        He is survived by a daughter, Michelle Sturdivant of Alexandria, Va., his mother, Ethiel Jessie of Bridgeport, Conn.; a brother, Robert, of Bridgeport; a sister, Lillian Sea wright of Bridgeport, and a stepbrother, William R. Jessie Jr. of Oakland, Calif. He is also survived by his companion, Peggy Potter, of Vienna, Va.
      