
        Dr. Carl W. Gottschalk, whose work rewrote the textbooks on how the kidney sorts and conserves water, and who played an important role in the extending of Medicare to cover dialysis for patients in the final stages of renal failure, died on Wednesday in Chapel Hill, N.C.
        He was 75 and lived in Chapel Hill, where he worked, at the University of North Carolina, for 40 years until his retirement in 1992.
        The cause was heart failure after a stress test he took on a visit to his doctor, his family said.
        It was early in his career that Dr. Gottschalk grew curious about how the kidneys, each with as many as a million microscopic filters, called nephrons, do a huge amount of work using a tiny amount of energy.
        Dr. Gottschalk found that contrary to previous kidney-function diagrams, which showed fluids moving in a straight line, the fluids instead underwent various processes along the route and, as they reached the end of a loop, would change in chemical content. The density of water, he found, increased from the upper area of the kidney to the lower area. He deduced that in the kidney's deeper parts, salt could pull out water, which could be put back as the body needed it. The kidney knew how to minimize the loss of water.
        Dr. Gottschalk's insights are now a standard chapter in the training of doctors for treatment of diseased kidneys, said Dr. William Blythe at the medical school at Chapel Hill, where Dr. Gottschalk was Kenan Research Professor in medicine and physiology from 1969 to 1992 and chairman of the physiology department in 1990-91.
        In 1967, Dr. Gottschalk was the chairman of a Government committee that urged creation of a national program to provide victims of chronic kidney disease either transplants or use of an artificial kidney machine. Today the program costs Medicare $13 billion a year, and 214,000 people are getting dialysis treatment through it.
        Dr. Gottschalk was also chairman, in 1987, of a national committee formed by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute to study legal and ethical issues arising from new medical technologies. He edited six editions of the standard textbook ''Diseases of the Kidney'' (Lippincott-Raven). And he was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Gottschalk was born in Salem, Va., and received a B.S. from Roanoke College in 1942 and an M.D. from the University of Virginia in 1945. Before joining North Carolina's faculty in 1952, he worked at Massachusetts General Hospital, the Army Medical Research Laboratory at Fort Knox, Ky., and Harvard Medical School.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Susan K. Fellner; two sons, Carl, of New Haven, and Walter, of Carrboro, N.C., and a daughter, Dr. Karen Strehlow of Boston.
        His first wife, Helen Scott Gottschalk, died in 1988.
      