
        Stanford L. Opotowsky, a former managing editor of The New York Post and director of news coverage for ABC News, died yesterday at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 73.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Known for his fast, clear and colorful writing, Mr. Opotowsky began his career writing about youth sports for The Times-Picayune in New Orleans at the age of 14. He ran The Sea Cost Echo, a weekly newspaper that his family owned in Bay St. Louis, Miss., before joining The Post as a national reporter in 1955.
        Mr. Opotowsky covered school integration in Little Rock, Ark., and the assassination of President Kennedy, among other major events. He was assistant city editor and assistant managing editor before being named The Post's managing editor in 1965.
        He left that position in 1972 to join ABC News, first as assistant assignment manager and then as director of operations for news documentaries. From 1975 until 1981, he was director of television news coverage.
        In 1981, he became director of political operations and oversaw the division responsible for the network's election-year exit polling and voter tabulation. He also directed the computerization of various ABC News operations. Mr. Opotowsky retired from that position in 1992.
        Early in his career, he had worked for United Press International as a reporter in New Orleans, Denver and New York. He had also been an assistant sports editor at U.P.I. Mr. Opotowsky also wrote several books, including ''TV: The Big Picture,'' about the technical aspect of television industry, and ''The Longs of Louisiana,'' ''The Kennedy Government'' and ''Men Behind Bars.''
        Mr. Opotowsky attended Tulane University for two years before joining the Marines as a combat correspondent in World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha Coble Opotowsky; a son, Peter Opotowsky of Orlando; two daughters, Ann Opotowsky of Pasadena, Calif., and Kate Robbins of McCoy, Colo.; a grandson, and his mother, Fannie Latter Opotowsky of New Orleans.
      