
        Dorothy Kingsley, a leading screenwriter in Hollywood in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula, in Monterey, Calif. She was 87 and lived in Carmel.
        Miss Kingsley wrote screenplays for more than 25 movies, specializing in musicals and comedies. Under contract to MGM, she wrote a series of films for Esther Williams, including ''Bathing Beauty,'' ''Neptune's Daughter'' (both co-starring Red Skelton) and ''Jupiter's Darling.'' She later wrote, by herself or in collaboration, the film adaptations of the Broadway musicals ''Kiss Me, Kate,'' ''Pal Joey'' and ''Can-Can,'' and was the co-author of ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.''
        In the days when Hollywood was importing famous authors and playwrights to write screenplays, Miss Kingsley was one of many women who became studio stalwarts, moving swiftly from one picture to another. She was known as a script doctor or fixer, who could be called in on a moment's notice to solve a screenplay problem, sometimes without receiving screen credit.
        ''Kingsley is a vanished breed: the studio utility player,'' said Pat McGilligan in ''Backstory 2,'' his collection of interviews with highly regarded screenwriters. ''But her ability to rethink a scene or to provide an appropriate snapper in a situation was much needed and much admired in the assembly-line days.'' Her stature among her peers, he added, ''is evidenced by a string of Academy Award and Writers Guild co-writing nominations for her scripts.''
        In the interview with Mr. McGilligan, Miss Kingsley said: ''I never think of myself as a real writer. I only wrote because I needed the money. I had no desire to express myself or anything.''
        But she became known as someone who could write or rewrite almost any kind of movie. As a baseball fan, she wrote ''Angels in the Outfield'' in the 1950's and received screenplay credit when the movie was remade in 1994. She also did the screenplay for ''Green Mansions.''
        Outspoken and with a nimble wit, she was often instrumental behind the scenes. It was partly through her efforts that Frank Sinatra agreed to play the title role in ''Pal Joey.'' She  urged Cole Porter to insert ''From This Moment On'' into the score for the movie of ''Kiss Me, Kate.''
        Miss Kingsley was born in New York City. Her father, Walter J. Kingsley, was a writer and Broadway press agent, and her mother, Alma Hanlon, was an actress in silent movies. When her parents divorced, she moved with her mother to Grosse Pointe, Mich.
        In the late 1930's, she began her career in Los Angeles as a comedy writer on radio for Bob Hope and Edgar Bergen. Then she was hired by Arthur Freed and was one of the writers, uncredited, on ''Girl Crazy'' in 1943. That led to her role as a writer of Esther Williams swimming movies. ''Finally,'' she said, ''I ran out of ways to get her in the water.''
        In 1967, after working on the screenplays for ''The Valley of the Dolls'' and ''Half a Sixpence,'' she retired from films. She and her husband, William Durney, established the Durney Vineyard, a major California producer of wine. Her husband died in 1989.
        She is survived by two sons, Terry Kingsley-Smith, a novelist and playwright, and Michael Durney, both of Carmel; two daughters, Susan Durney Mickelson of Lake Oswego, Ore., and Christine Armanasco of Carmel, and nine grandchildren.
      