
        Dr. William James McGill, a psychologist and teacher who led Columbia University in the 1970's as it recovered from years of student rebellion and financial distress, died on Sunday at the University of California-San Diego Thornton Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 75 and had lived in La Jolla since retiring from Columbia in 1980.
        He was hospitalized on Wednesday after a heart attack, according to the university in San Diego, where he was chancellor at the height of campus unrest over civil rights and the Vietnam War.
        Dr. McGill became the 16th president of Columbia in September 1970, succeeding Andrew W. Cordier. Dr. McGill had been chancellor at San Diego for two years and a psychology professor for five. He was a psychology professor at Columbia from 1956 to 1965 and was chairman of the department in the early 60's.
        Dr. McGill presided at a time of mending. Partly because of the upheavals, the university finances were troubled. He found a $16.5 million deficit in the 1970 budget and, over 10 years, oversaw the balancing of the books through strict controls.
        Even as enrollment rose to 17,500 from 15,000, the nontenured faculty was trimmed and tuition doubled, to more than $5,000 a year, by 1980. High-speed computer-based systems brought order to accounting, long-range fiscal plans were drafted, and emphasis was heightened on productivity, reorganization and frugality.
        Student unrest, nationally as well as locally, had depressed contributions from alumni, corporations and foundations. But in the following years fund-raising improved, rising to records by the late 70's.
        Columbia also completed a $100 million construction program. It added the Sherman Fairchild Center for the Life Sciences; the Avery Library expansion; the School of International Affairs Building; the Geosciences Building at the Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory in Palisades, N.Y., and the Dodge Physical Fitness Center.
        Under Dr. McGill, undergraduate general education, which Columbia pioneered in 1910, widened in 1973. That year humanities instruction was introduced at the graduate and professional levels, a medical ethics program was created, a Center for the Study of Human Rights was opened, and curriculums in architecture, engineering and business were overhauled.
        In 1968 at San Diego, Dr. McGill became head of the Academic Senate and a search committee looking for a new chancellor. The panel came up with five finalists, and Dr. McGill was offered the post. He accepted and promptly ran into a storm when Gov. Ronald Reagan and other conservatives objected to his reappointment of Prof. Herbert Marcuse, a Marxist, to the faculty.
        Students began demanding acceptance of radical views, and soon the once-tranquil campus was in turmoil. The radicals called Dr. McGill a pig; the American Legion urged his dismissal, largely over the Marcuse case, and the faculty was split.
        But Dr. McGill waded into the fray, listened to the students and opened a dialogue. The regents decided to let Professor Marcuse's contract run out.
        The same style served Dr. McGill at Columbia. His leadership at San Diego helped persuade the university to ask him to return to Morningside Heights.
        Among his posts were chairman of the Carnegie Commission on the Future of Public Broadcasting, chairman of President Carter's Commission on a National Agenda for the 80's and chairman of the awards selection committee of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.
        His research focused on modern information and signal-detection theories, which analyze the flow of sensory information. The years of campus confrontations also stirred his interest in crowd theory and conflict resolution.
        Dr. McGill was born in the Bronx. He graduated in 1943 from Fordham University, where he also earned an M.A. in 1947. He received his Ph.D. in experimental psychology at Harvard University in 1953.
        He wrote about his experiences as chancellor in ''The Year of the Monkey'' (McGraw-Hill, 1983), which took its name from the monkey of the Chinese calendar and mythology. The monkey god, known for trickery, controls malicious and evil spirits.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 50 years, Ann Rowe McGill; a daughter, Rowena Springer of Reno, Nev.; a son, William, of San Diego, and two grandsons.
      