
       Members of the dance and theater worlds gathered yesterday afternoon at the City Center to honor Nora Kaye, the American ballerina who died last year. Known for her dramatic power, Ms. Kaye, who was born in New York City in 1920, was a member of American Ballet Theater from its inception in 1940 until 1951, and again from 1954 to 1959.
        Members of the dance and theater worlds gathered yesterday afternoon at the City Center to honor Nora Kaye, the American ballerina who died last year. Known for her dramatic power, Ms. Kaye, who was born in New York City in 1920, was a member of American Ballet Theater from its inception in 1940 until 1951, and again from 1954 to 1959. In between, she appeared with the New York City Ballet. Celebrated for her interpretations of the psychological ballets of Antony Tudor, she also danced in works by Agnes de Mille and Jerome Robbins.
        The memorial included speeches by two ballerinas: Alicia Alonso, the Cuban dancer who was part of American Ballet Theater from 1940 until 1955, and Dame Margot Fonteyn, the former star of England's Royal Ballet. ''In her dance,'' Ms. Alonso said of Ms. Kaye, ''there was life always.'' Dame Margot called Ms. Kaye ''the most wonderful friend - understanding, perceptive, encouraging.''
        Mr. Robbins analyzed Ms. Kaye's dramatic gift, saying that he believed she was theatrically striking not because she was flamboyant, but because of her gestural economy. Mr. Robbins recalled how last summer, while sitting at a cafe in Spoleto, Italy, he fancied he saw Ms. Kaye pass by.
        Other tributes came from Leo Lerman, the theatrical writer; Mike Nichols, the director, and John Taras, Ballet Theater's associate director. Several speakers recalled how Ms. Kaye assisted her second husband, Herbert Ross, the choreographer and director, in his theatrical and film projects. Musical Tributes, as Well
        Ms. Kaye had been married first to the violinist Isaac Stern. Mr. Stern was present to play Mozart's Violin Sonata in E minor, with Leonard Bernstein as pianist. Other musical selections included songs by Bernadette Peters and Barbara Cook. Leslie Browne and Robert Hill, of Ballet Theater, offered an excerpt from Tudor's ''Leaves Are Fading.''
        The afternoon's touching conclusion came when Lynn Seymour, a British ballerina whose intensity has been likened to that of Ms. Kaye, danced Sir Frederick Ashton's ''Five Brahms Waltzes in the Manner of Isadora Duncan.'' When she stepped forward scattering rose petals, she could have been offering a floral tribute to Ms. Kaye.
        Then, with Mr. Bernstein at the piano, Stephanie Friede sang ''Im Abendrot,'' one of Richard Strauss's ''Four Last Songs,'' which accompanied Tudor's ''Hail and Farewell,'' his last ballet for Ms. Kaye. It had been given its premiere by the Metropolitan Opera Ballet in 1959, with Ms. Kaye as guest artist; she retired in 1961. Possessing a theme that symbolized death and transfiguration, ''Im Abendrot'' sounded especially eloquent.
      