
       George F. McGrath, New York City Commissioner of Correction in the Linday administration and an authority on penology, died yesterday at his home in Boston. He was 70 years old.
        George F. McGrath, New York City Commissioner of Correction in the Linday administration and an authority on penology, died yesterday at his home in Boston. He was 70 years old.
        At his death, Mr. McGrath was Clerk of the United States District Court for Massachusetts. He became Clerk in 1973, two years after ending his five and a half years as Correction Commissioner.
        Throughout his career, Mr. McGrath was a proponent of rehabilitation as a principal objective of incarceration. While heading the prisons, he inaugurated a work-release program, the first in the city's history, and he established halfway houses to ease the transition from prison to life in the community.
        A native of Boston and the sixth of 11 children in the family of a bricklayer who had emigrated from Ireland, Mr. McGrath was captain of the football team at Milton High School. He went to Boston University and, after several years of night study, received a law degree from Boston College in 1953, graduating first in his class. He returned to the Boston College Law School, as assistant dean, in 1958 and '59. Chosen by Lindsay in '65
        His interest in social work and penology had begun much earlier. During the 30's, he held several social-work positions in Massachusetts prison systems. In 1940, he undertook a research project at the Harvard University Law School on delinquency and crime that lasted nearly two decades, with time out for Army service in World War II.
        In 1959, after having been Secretary of the Massachusetts Crime Commission, he was named State Correction Commissioner, a post he held until 1965, when he became a partner in a Boston law firm. The next year, John V. Lindsay chose him, after a nationwide search, as Commissioner of Correction, to succeed Anna M. Kross, who had been Commissioner for 12 years.
        In New York, Mr. McGrath grappled with the chronic problem of prison overcrowding, a problem intensified by the use of stiff sentences for drug sellers and users. When he resigned in 1971, Mr. McGrath was widely praised for ''keeping the lid on'' a potentially volatile system.
        Returning to Boston, Mr. McGrath resumed his law practice and wrote and lectured extensively on correction issues. He was in demand as a consultant and was chairman of the Massachusetts Governor's Advisory Commission on Correction from 1979 to 1982, a position he had held before working in New York.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Natalie Bachyn; a daughter, Eileen, of Roslindale, Mass.; a brother, Joseph, and five sisters, Kathleen Maher, Rose Eaton, Alice Kennedy, Dorothy Palmisciano and Lorraine Kunz, all of the Boston area.
      