
       George Grayson Tyler, a former head of the tax department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore and a former president of the University Club, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan and in West Redding, Conn.
        George Grayson Tyler, a former head of the tax department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore and a former president of the University Club, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan and in West Redding, Conn.
        Mr. Tyler was stricken on a subway train and was pronounced dead at Bellevue Hospital Center.
        The son of Judge Harry Tayloe Tyler of the Court of Common Pleas of Belmont County in eastern Ohio and Margaret McGregor Tyler, Mr. Tyler was a generalist in the tax field. He rose to head the tax department of Cravath, Swaine & Moore from 1963 to 1978 - a period that saw several major revisions of the Internal Revenue Code that made corporate tax matters more complex.
        Many of Mr. Tyler's clients were large corporations, including Bethlehem Steel, Chemical Bank, Exxon, the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of Companies, Time Inc. and Westinghouse Electric Corporation. Wrote Articles on Taxes
        Much of his work entailed representing clients before courts, and also at appeals proceedings before hearings officers of the Internal Revenue Service.
        At his death, Mr. Tyler had been for 22 years a trustee, and for 12 years a member of the executive committee of the Tax Foundation Inc. The foundation, based in Washington, is a research and education group that monitors public spending at all levels of government, with particular emphasis on Federal tax policy as it relates to the Federal budget.
        Mr. Tyler also wrote articles on tax-related topics, taught tax law at the Columbia University Law School and was active on the taxation committees of the New York State and city bar associations and in such other professional groups as the Tax Club and the Tax Forum.
        In 1982, Mr. Tyler became president of the University Club. It was a time of lively discussion, within the then all-male membership of the club, about the admission of women members, which took place last June. Church Elder
        At his death, he was a member of the Governing Council of the club. He had been an Elder of the First Presbyterian Church, on Fifth Avenue between 11th and 12th Streets, for the past 48 years. He had also served as a trustee of several church-related organizations.
        Mr. Tyler graduated in 1927 from Hamilton College, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He earned a bachelor of laws degree, in 1931, and a master of laws degree, in 1933, from Columbia University Law School. He was with the Treasury Department before joining Cravath, Swaine & Moore as an associate in 1934. He became a partner in 1946 and retired in 1978.
        Mr. Tyler was married in 1939 to Edith Osborne Ives, the daughter of the composer Charles Ives. She died in 1956. He was married in 1959 to Dr. Barbara Jacqueline Logan, an obstetrician. She died in 1977.
        He is survived by a son, Charles Ives Tyler of Greenwich, and two granddaughters.
        A funeral service is to be held at 11 A.M. Friday in the sanctuary of the First Presbyterian Church.
      