
       Raymond Williams, a cultural historian and critic who championed the arts for the working class and taught at Cambridge and Oxford universities, died on Tuesday at his home here. He was 66 years old.
        Raymond Williams, a cultural historian and critic who championed the arts for the working class and taught at Cambridge and Oxford universities, died on Tuesday at his home here. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Williams, a Marxist, wrote 25 books, including novels, plays and a biography of George Orwell. In his books he reassessed the English literary tradition and argued that working people had always been excluded from artistic activities.
        In the 1960's, he defended students who demanded that universities be run more democratically.
        Mr. Williams was born in north Wales, the son of a railroad signalman. He studied literature at Cambridge University. After World War II service he taught at Oxford and was a professor of drama at Cambridge from 1974 to 1983.
        In his major literary works, which included ''Culture and Society'' (1958), ''The Long Revolution'' (1961), ''The Country and the City'' (1973) and ''The Year 2000'' (1981), Mr. Williams explored broad themes in a bold manner.
        In ''The Country and the City,'' the critic Marshall Berman noted, Mr. Williams set out to do nothing less than ''explore and analyze the full range of writing and thinking about the country and the city over the last 3,000 years. He shows us the language and imagery, the beliefs and developed ideas, the hidden assumptions and class biases, and the 'structures of feeling' of literally hundreds of writers, major and minor, poets and pamphleteers, geniuses and hacks. . . . His erudition is immense.''
        ''Culture and Society'' and ''The Long Revolution'' dissected the English social predicament from Mr. Williams's fervently Marxist point of view, concluding that the working-class culture was being steadily undermined by the popular press, television and films.
        In ''The Year 2000,'' one of his last books, Mr. Williams offered a gloomy forecast for the future of Britain's Labor Party and, indeed, for socialism in general, contending that only a utopian ''new politics'' based on ''new kinds of communal, cooperative and collective institutions'' could salvage the Left.
      