
       Harold J. Kennedy, a jack-of-all-theatrical-trades and for nearly half a century a champion of the summer theater circuit, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at Doctors Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Harold J. Kennedy, a jack-of-all-theatrical-trades and for nearly half a century a champion of the summer theater circuit, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at Doctors Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Kennedy wrote, directed and produced plays that traveled, on the power of the stars in their casts, to summer stock theaters around the country. Light entertainments, they rarely fared well with critics, generally pleased audiences and always contained a comic role for the playwright. Among the best known of these was ''A Goose for the Gander,'' which arrived at the Playhouse Theater in January 1945 after an arduous tryout and provided an inauspicious Broadway debut for Gloria Swanson. ''Being the author, with all the privileges of royalty, Mr. Kennedy has written all the best parts for himself,'' Lewis Nichols wrote in The New York Times in probably the most favorable line in the review. Film Roles in 1950's
        Mr. Kennedy met with greater success as a director of other writers' works. He staged the national or West Coast productions of such Broadway plays as ''Tiger at the Gates,'' ''The Madwoman of Chaillot,'' ''Detective Story'' and ''A Man for All Seasons.'' As a character actor during the 1950's, he appeared in several films, including ''The Captive City,'' ''Run for Cover,'' ''Riot in Cellblock 11'' and ''It Should Happen to You.'' He also appeared on television.
        Mr. Kennnedy, who lived on the West Side with his dog, Poodgie, was born in Holyoke, Mass. He was a graduate of Dartmouth College and, in 1938, the Yale School of Drama. He joined the Mercury Theater before taking to the road and was a frequent lecturer. Mr. Kennedy contributed theater stories and articles to many publications, including The Times.
        In 1969, Mr. Kennedy staged an acclaimed revival of ''The Front Page'' at the Barrymore Theater. In 1979, he directed ''Candida'' for the Roundabout Theater and in 1981 ''Light Up the Sky'' at the John Drew Theater of Guild Hall in East Hampton, L.I. The director recounted his experiences in '' 'No Pickle, No Performance' (An Irreverent Theatrical Excursion From Tallulah to Travolta),'' which was published in 1978 by Doubleday.
      