
       Travers J. Bell Jr., the founder and owner of the only black-owned member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, died Monday, apparently from a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 46 years old.
        Travers J. Bell Jr., the founder and owner of the only black-owned member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, died Monday, apparently from a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 46 years old.
        With only $175,000 in capital, Mr. Bell formed Daniels & Bell Inc., a securities firm on Wall Street, in 1971. Since then, the company has grown to a net worth in excess of $15 million, finding its niche by underwriting securities of emerging minority-owned businesses and by participating in large distribution syndicates formed by other investment banks.
        The firm's co-founder, Willie E. Daniels, left the company early on to go into the restaurant business.
        Mr. Bell was chairman of the New York district of the Securities Industry Association, the industry's chief lobby group. Independent Financial Adviser
        While the success of the company was due to more than just its status as a minority-owned company, Mr. Bell nonetheless often stressed the importance of being black and independent when dealing with African businesses and governments.
        In a 1982 interview in The New York Times, Mr. Bell said, ''It's a must that these clients have an independent black financial adviser.''
        Mr. Bell grew up in a housing development on the South Side of Chicago. His father worked in the operations department of the Chicago office of Dempsey Tegler & Company, and was able to get his son a messenger's job. Mr. Bell, who obtained degrees from Washington University in St. Louis and from the New York Institute of Finance, ascended quickly, eventually to vice-president of the firm.
        He is survived by his wife, Laura; a son, Darryl; a daughter, Rhonda, and his father, Travers J. Bell Sr. A funeral will be Friday in Chicago.
      