
       Klaus Fuchs, the German-born physicist who was imprisoned in the 1950's in Britain after being convicted of passing nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union, died yesterday, the East German press agency A.D.N. reported. He was 76 years old.
        Klaus Fuchs, the German-born physicist who was imprisoned in the 1950's in Britain after being convicted of passing nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union, died yesterday, the East German press agency A.D.N. reported. He was 76 years old.
        An editor of the agency, reached by telephone at its offices in East Berlin, said she had no further details concerning Dr. Fuchs's death.
        An Eastern bloc diplomat in Washington said that since the agency had disclosed the news, it was to be assumed that Dr. Fuchs had died in East Germany. He moved there in 1959 after being released from prison.
        Dr. Fuchs was a German Communist who was forced to leave Hitler's Germany in 1933. He emigrated to Britain, where he finished his education as a physicist and went on to carry out nuclear espionage in Britain and the United States from 1941 to 1950. Worked at Los Alamos
        Some experts have calculated that his spying enabled the Russians to develop their own atom bomb, in 1949, at least one year and possibly two years earlier than otherwise would have been possible.
        His most important spying was widely believed to have been done during World War II, when he worked on the development of the atomic bomb at Los Alamos, N. M. His arrest in 1950 touched off a furor, and after pleading guilty at his trial, he served 9 years of a 14-year sentence. Over the decades, his case was repeatedly the subject of books and stage and screen works.
        The apprehension of Dr. Fuchs put investigators on a trail that led eventually to the conviction, at a trial in New York, of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. They were electrocuted in 1953 at Sing Sing prison.
        The Rosenbergs were indicted for conspiring to convey classified military information to the Russians. The prosecution charged that they had enlisted Mrs. Rosenberg's brother, David Greenglass - who, like Dr. Fuchs, worked at Los Alamos - to give secrets about atomic weapons to them and to another spy, Harry Gold.
        In his later years in East Germany, Dr. Fuchs resumed his scientific career, became an executive of the national atomic research institute near Dresden, and retired in 1979. Served On Central Committee
        A wiry, bespectacled figure, he commanded great respect in his latter-day homeland. At his death, he had been for 20 years a member of the Central Committee of the East German Communist Party. He was also a member of the East German Academy of Sciences.
        The East German press agency made public a eulogy yesterday that did not mention Dr. Fuchs's spying, but cited ''his scientific achievements in the field of theoretical physics'' and ''his consistent action for socialism and for the maintaining of peace'' as having ''brought him high national and international esteem.''
        ''As a socialist scientist, university teacher, Communist and loyal friend of the Soviet Union,'' it said of his service in East Germany, ''he participated for two decades, successfully and creatively, in the development of the power industry.'' Son of a Pastor
        Dr. Fuchs was born Dec. 29, 1911, outside Frankfurt, the son of Emil Fuchs, a Lutheran pastor who became a Quaker and anti-Nazi and was put in a concentration camp, which he survived.
        As a young man, Klaus Fuchs for a time found Social Democratic politics appealing, before becoming a Communist in 1930. But as A.D.N. saw it yesterday, ''In his early years he brought his whole strength to bear, in the Communist youth movement and as a member of the Communist Party of Germany, toward the creation of the political preconditions for a new pattern of society.''
        He was active in the anti-Hitler underground for more than a year before taking refuge in France and then proceeding to Britain. There he earned a doctor of science degree at Edinburgh University.
        He was afterward interned for a time in Canada as a German alien, but was permitted to return to Britain, where he did advanced study in Glasgow and became a British subject.
        Early in the war, when he was back in England, he was offered an assistant's post at the atom-bomb development project at Birmingham University and signed a pledge of secrecy.
        According to a statement that he later made at the War Office in London in 1950, as reported in the 1987 book ''Klaus Fuchs: the Man Who Stole the Atomb Bomb'' by Norman Moss, Dr. Fuchs said, ''When I learned the purpose of the work, I decided to inform Russia, and I established contact through another member of the Communist Party.''
        In the statement, he added: ''Since that time I have had continuous contact with persons who were completely unknown to me, except that I knew that they would hand whatever information I gave them to the Russian authorities. At this time I had complete confidence in Russian policy and I believed that the Western Allies deliberately allowed Russia and Germany to fight each other to the death. I had, therefore, no hesitation in giving all the information I had, even though occasionally I tried to concentrate mainly on giving information about the results of my own work.'' To Los Alamos During War
        Along with other British nuclear scientists, he proceeded to the United States during the war and took part, at Los Alamos, in the creation of the first atomic bomb.
        He returned to Britain after the war and became an executive of the British nuclear energy research center at Harwell, outside Oxford.
        At a preliminary hearing after he was arrested, a British prosecutor observed that Dr. Fuchs ''produced in himself a classic example of that immortal duality of English literature -a Jekyll and Hyde.''
        ''As Jekyll he was a normal citizen in the use of his magnificent brain in the cause of science,'' the prosecutor said. ''As Hyde, he was betraying his oath of allegiance, his vows of security and the friendship of his friends.''
        Mr. Moss, the British author, said yesterday in the village of St.-Omer in France: ''It's curious that a man who was such an important spy was not a professional spy, unlike Kim Philby and so many others. He was a professional scientist and a very good one; and he became a spy simply because he was an atomic physicist at a time when, as it turned out, developments in atomic physics were the most important things happening in the world.'' 'A Man Driven by Conscience'
        ''He was a man driven by conscience - his father taught his children always to do what their conscience told them to - and he was tormented by a conflict between his political beliefs and his slowly developing ties of friendship with the scientists he worked with,'' Mr. Moss said.  Another 1987 book about Mr. Fuchs, by an American historian, Robert Chadwell Williams, is ''Klaus Fuchs, Atom Spy.''
        Dr. Fuchs was the recipient of various East German party and Government honors, including the Karl Marx Medal - the country's highest civilian decoration - and the title of distinguished scientist of the people.
        After arriving in East Germany in 1959, Dr. Fuchs married Greta Keilson, a German Communist whom he had come to know years before in France.
        The editor at A.D.N.'s headquarters said no details concerning any survivors of Mr. Fuchs were available. She said no announcement had been made concerning funeral arrangements.
      