
       W. Hawkins Ferry, an architectural historian and a well-known collector and patron of 20th-century art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at his home in Grosse Pointe Shores, a suburb of Detroit. He was 74 years old, and had for some time suffered from a neurological disorder.
        W. Hawkins Ferry, an architectural historian and a well-known collector and patron of 20th-century art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at his home in Grosse Pointe Shores, a suburb of Detroit. He was 74 years old, and had for some time suffered from a neurological disorder.
        Mr. Ferry's grandfather, Dexter M. Ferry, who established what is now the Ferry-Morse Seed Company, was one of the founders of the Detroit Institute of Arts. Mr. Ferry continued in the family tradition, becoming an important donor to the institute, and serving as a trustee of the Founders Society, which runs the museum, from 1960 until his death. He assembled his small but select collection of classical 20th-century art, Abstract Expressionism and contemporary sculpture with an eye to the museum's needs and also acquired works especially for it. ''He bought more ambitiously than the curators dared to propose,'' said Jan van der Marck, curator of 20th-century art at the museum, who recently mounted a show of the Ferry collection there.
        Mr. Ferry, born in 1913 in Detroit, attended the Cranbrook School for Boys and Harvard University, where he studied architecture with Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer. Early on, he collected the work of artists with an architectural bent, such as Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, and in 1948 gave his first gifts to the museum of works by Moholy-Nagy. Later, he became interested in works by Surrealist artists, and then those of such 20th-century masters as Picasso and Leger. In the 1960's he began to acquire work by American Abstract Expressionist artists.
        In 1968, Mr. Ferry published a definitive book on local architecture, ''The Buildings of Detroit: A History,'' and in 1970 he produced the first monograph on the work of the industrial architect Albert Kahn, who designed the Ford River Rouge plant in Detroit.
        Mr. Ferry, who never married, is survived by a brother, Dexter M. Ferry, of Grosse Pointe Farms, and a sister, Mrs. Arthur U. Hooper, of Baltimore.
      