
       Al Barabas, the Columbia halfback who scored the game's only touchdown in the famous 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 77 years old.  He made other runs, he scored other touchdowns, and he later became one of Columbia's most successful fund-raisers, but nothing could match the acclaim he received for the single play in the second quarter of the
        Al Barabas, the Columbia halfback who scored the game's only touchdown in the famous 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 77 years old.  He made other runs, he scored other touchdowns, and he later became one of Columbia's most successful fund-raisers, but nothing could match the acclaim he received for the single play in the second quarter of the Stanford game.
        It was a play known as KF-79, a hidden-ball trick that depended on deception rather than power. Mr. Barabas took a handoff from the quarterback, Cliff Montgomery, paused while a confused Stanford defense pursued a decoy runner, and then ran 17 yards round left end into the end zone.
        At a time when the Rose Bowl was the only major bowl game and Stanford was a perennial power, the Columbia victory was widely acclaimed as an upset. When the team returned to New York on Jan. 7, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia led a victory parade from Pennsylvania Station to Morningside Heights. Three days later, Mr. Barabas was hailed by a throng of 8,000 fans, including the Governor of New Jersey and Mayor Frank Hague, when he returned to his hometown of Jersey City. A Sophomore Star
        Mr. Montgomery said yesterday that Mr. Barabas, who also made a tackle that stopped a Stanford drive, had been the only sophomore starter on the 1933 team, that he had played a major role throughout the team's 8-1 regular season and that he went on to become captain of the 1935 squad.
        Mr. Barabas, one of six brothers who achieved athletic success, was also a key member of the Columbia baseball team. After graduation, he spent three years playing both sports professionally, football with the Brooklyn Dodgers and baseball with the Class AAA farm team of the Boston Red Sox in Little Rock, Ark.
        After service as a naval officer in World War II, he worked as a buyer for Stern's department store and in 1960 returned to Columbia as executive director of the college's fund-raising office. Until his retirement in 1977 as the school's principal development officer, he helped raise millions of dollars.
        Mr. Barabas, who was married twice, is survived by a brother, Charles, and several nephews.
      