
       President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan died of a heart attack yesterday, ending a four-decade era in which Chinese who fled the mainland in 1949 were the prime leaders of the island nation.
        President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan died of a heart attack yesterday, ending a four-decade era in which Chinese who fled the mainland in 1949 were the prime leaders of the island nation.
        His age was officially said to be 77 -though by some accounts he was older - and he had been President since 1978.
        Mr. Chiang, the son and political heir of the Chinese Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek, died in a hospital in Taipei, the capital of Taiwan. He was succeeded by his designated successor, Vice President Lee Teng-hui, 64 years old. Mr. Lee, a Cornell University-trained economist who was a Mayor of Taipei and a Provincial Governor, is the first native of Taiwan to become President.
        Chinese and American specialists on Taiwan expressed concern yesterday that Mr. Chiang's death, ending the family dynasty, could lead to instability on the island.  [ Page 7. ]  There is doubt as to how the Kuomintang, the ruling party, will evolve, how opposition political figures will react and what position the post-Chiang leadership will take on the question of reunification with mainland China, which is about 100 miles away across the Strait of Formosa. The Republic of China, confined to Taiwan and a few smaller islands since 1949, has asserted since then that it is the rightful Chinese government.
        Mr. Lee is expected by some analysts to serve out Mr. Chiang's term, which ends in 1990, and then to run for election. He is well liked on the island, but is regarded as possessing less strength of will, leadership ability and charisma than did Chiang Ching-kuo.
        In Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported Mr. Chiang's death without comment in an article from Hong Kong. U.S. Expresses 'Great Sadness'
        In Washington, the State Department spokesman, Charles E. Redman, declared, ''We note with great sadness the passing of this respected leader.'' The United States ended its diplomatic relations with Taiwan in 1979 when Washington granted recognition to the Chinese Communist Government as the only lawful Chinese Government.
        Mr. Chiang's father, a world figure during World War II, led the Nationalist forces, which were defeated by the Chinese Communist Red Army in 1949 after long civil struggle. Chiang Kai-shek and about two million supporters went into exile on the Chinese island of Taiwan, where he established his Government and went on asserting that he was the President of all China.
        The elder Chiang viewed Taiwan as a fortress from which to confront the Communist Government, and he focused much attention on how to get back to the mainland. His leadership created severe tensions within the native Taiwanese community.
        As the years passed, Chiang Kai-shek groomed Chiang Ching-kuo to succeed him. He died in 1975, and the son, after becoming President in 1978, put into effect a series of liberalization measures in recent years. A 'Very Fine' Leader
        In his decade as President, Chiang Ching-kuo showed more skill than had been widely expected, some China analysts said yesterday. William H. Gleysteen, Jr., a China specialist and former U.S. career diplomat who is now director of studies at the Council on Foreign Relations said:
        ''Many people thought he would be a mediocre leader, but he turned out to be a very fine one; he understood that, whatever the formal slogans might be, the reality was that the Government was on Taiwan and was not likely to be leaving soon.''
        And Anthony J. Kane, director of the China Council of the Manhattan-based Asia Society, said, ''It is clear that Chiang Ching-kuo was a very strong leader.''
        During his years in office, Mr. Chiang prompted rapid economic development on the island. He also brought natives of Taiwan into the Government and into the Kuomintang. Most recently, he set about what Mr. Gleysteen, a former deputy chief of the U.S. Embassy on Taiwan and a former Ambassador to South Korea, called ''active, genuine political liberalization on the island.'' Loosening of Stance on China
        For years, Mr. Chiang maintained a firm official policy forbidding contacts with mainland China, but he was practical in applying that policy, and last year the Taipei Government began permitting its citizens to visit relatives in China.
        Over the years, Mr. Chiang reaffirmed his stated scorn and confrontation of the Chinese Communists. ''The experiences of the last dozens of years,'' he declared, ''have proved that Communism will surely be thrown onto the ash heap of history. To talk peace with the Chinese Communists is to invite death. This is an agonizing, blood-stained lesson that we and many other Asian countries have learned.''
        The Beijing Government, however, has actively tried to woo Taiwan in recent years, encouraging visits from the island to the mainland and also urging the establishment of mail and trade links.
        Beijing has also repeatedly called for the reunification of Taiwan with the mainland, under conditions that would permit the island to retain its economic system and military.
        The changes initiated by Mr. Chiang, who had been regarded with suspicion by native Taiwanese, included the lifting of martial law in 1987, after being in force nearly 40 years, and the liberalization of press laws. Challenge to Maintain Momentum
        Dr. Kane of the Asia Society, a private, nonprofit institution that works toward improving American understanding of Asia, said ''the challenge now to his successor and to the ruling party, the Kuomintang, is to maintain the momentum that has been established'' toward liberalization.
        As President, Mr. Chiang did much to bring Taiwanese into the island's political, administative and military spheres. About 70 percent of the Kuomintang membership, and the great majority of those in the military ranks are native Taiwanese.
        Mr. Chiang also oversaw the opening up of the political system to allow for the formation of an opposition party, the Democratic Progressive Party. But the party, though it exists as a practical matter, is still not a legal entity.
        In addition, he devoted much attention to the question of what sort of leadership would emerge after his death. Alan D. Romberg, a China specialist and former State Department official who is the senior fellow for Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations, said yesterday, ''He took steps to ensure that there would not be a family dynasty or a military regime that followed him, recognizing that either of those things would set back the objectives that he was working for.''
        Before his death, President Chiang, who had serious health problems, had been expected to step down in 1990 at the end of his second six-year term. A diabetic, he used a wheelchair in recent years and had a heart pacemaker.
        In his will, Mr. Chiang asserted that his mission had been to bring mainland China and Taiwan into unity, overseen by a Nationalist Government. Fulfilling Chiang's Mission
        Mr. Lee, the new President, called yesterday for the fulfillment ''of the mission that Mr. Chiang was unable to finish.''
        Mr. Chiang's formal insistence on that key question did not prevent many other nations, in addition to the United States, from giving diplomatic recognition to the Communist Government in Beijing and withdrawing recognition from the Government in Taipei. But under Mr. Chaing's leadership, Taiwan thrived economically and carried on trade with scores of nations.
        For more than two decades, Mr. Chiang, who was known as being tough or ruthless, presided over the Taiwan intelligence apparatus. He became the main leader on Taiwan some years before his formal accession as President and while Chiang Kai-shek, grown old and enfeebled, still held the title of President.
        The younger Chiang had the title of Prime Minister from 1972 to 1978, having variously been Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense and having held lesser positions on Taiwan. A Change of Image
        As Prime Minister, he clearly concluded that it was necessary to increase public support for the Government, which had long been authoritarian and repressive. He began to cut a more benign public figure. He wore a turtleneck sweater and a windbreaker during tours of the countryside, making unannounced visits to listen to complaints by farmers and villagers about Government bureaucracy and other problems.
        He also confronted such problems as corruption, poor transport and endemic poverty. In 1975, an attorney in the Taiwanese city of Tainan said that in the previous two or three years, the Government had ''finally realized that its survival depends on the development of Taiwan.''
        Mr. Chiang was born in the village of Chikow in the mainland province of Zhejiang on the Chinese coast to Mao Fu-mei, Chiang Kai-shek's first wife. The elder Chiang married a second time, and his widow from that marriage, who became known as Madame Chiang Kai-shek, survives. Educated in Soviet Union
        As a boy, Chiang Ching-kuo read classic Chinese literature and was drilled in Chinese calligraphy. When he was 16 years old, his father - under whom the Kuomintang was having a short-lived period of cordial relations with the Communist International - sent him to the Soviet Union for university education.
        In 1925, he entered Sun Yat-sen University, which had been opened that year to train Chinese revolutionary cadres, joined a Communist Youth organization and became a Red Army cadet for a time.
        But Chiang Kai-shek turned against the Chinese Communists; in 1927, large numbers of them were shot by his forces in Shanghai.
        For nearly 10 years afterward, Chiang Ching-kuo was held hostage in the Soviet Union for political reasons. His jobs in that era included stints as a village worker near Moscow and toiling in a heavy industry installation in the city of Sverdlovsk in the Urals.
        Years later, after rising to influence and prominence on Taiwan, Mr. Chiang said that it was his years in the Soviet Union, at the time of the Stalinist purges, that made him a confirmed enemy of Communism.
        Chiang Ching-kuo's survivors include his Russian-born wife, Faina, whom he married in 1935, and three sons and a daughter.
      