
       Richard Downing Pope Sr., the flamboyant showman who built Cypress Gardens park and was credited with revitalzing Florida's tourist industry after World War II, died Thursday at his home here. He was 87 years old.
        Richard Downing Pope Sr., the flamboyant showman who built Cypress Gardens park and was credited with revitalzing Florida's tourist industry after World War II, died Thursday at his home here. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Pope built Cypress Gardens, the state's first park-like tourist attraction, on 16 acres of swampland in 1936.
        In the next three decades it became known as a lush backdrop for water-skiing exhibitions, newspaper photographs and movies featuring Esther Williams, Fernando Lamas and Van Johnson. Mr. Pope staged many of the exhibitions, including one for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York City.
        Mr. Pope was noted for his efforts in behalf of the entire state, handing out Florida-shaped pins and persuading weather forecasters to describe the weather as partly sunny instead of partly cloudy.
        Senator Bob Graham of Florida said, ''Dick Pope Sr. was the embodiment of Florida tourism.''
        Jo Farmer, executive director of the Osceola County Convention and Visitors Bureau, said: ''He set the stage for the exposure of Florida worldwide. There wasn't any place in the world you could go and not hear about Florida. He pretty much wrote the book.''
        Mr. Pope, who was born in Des Moines, moved with his family to Florida in 1908. After working in real estate, he saw a magazine article about a South Carolina banker who earned $36,000 in three months by charging people $2 each to see his landscaped estate.
        So Mr. Pope developed Cypress Gardens and began charging 25 cents to view its beauty.
        When Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc. bought Cypress Gardens in August 1985, the attraction was valued at $23 million. The complex, which has grown to 223 acres, now has about a million tourists yearly.
        Mr. Pope is survived by his wife, Julie; a son, Richard Jr.; a daughter, Adrienne Watkins; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      