
        Helen Nichols Church, a pioneering nutritionist who began her career telling Howard Johnson what to serve at his very first restaurant and ended it as the last word on the nutritional content of more than 8,000 popular foods, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lakewood, N.J. She was 95 and had been the editor of Bowes and Church's Food Values of Portions Commonly Used.
        It was Anna dePlanter Bowes, a Pennsylvania nutritionist, who first recognized that official nutrition tables listing the amounts of various vitamins and other nutrients in arbitrary laboratory portions of basic foods had little relevance to real world kitchen and dinner table conditions.
        Few housewives, she knew, would actually serve, say, exactly 100 grams of lean meat. Some were known to mix several meats and maybe even some onions to prepare meat loaf, and others went so far as to serve their families elaborate casseroles.
        With the assistance of Mrs. Church's husband, Dr. Charles F. Church, a Harvard-trained public health specialist, Miss Bowes in 1936 began publishing nutrition tables based on commonly used portions of a variety of prepared foods.
        Mrs. Church was deeply involved with the project from the beginning, eventually becoming co-editor and succeeding her husband as editor after his death in 1976. She later recruited Jean A. T. Pennington, who has continued the project, which is now going into in its 17th edition and covers some 8,500 food items from basic fruits and vegetables to Big Macs and other popular prepared foods. A native of LeRoy, Ill., Mrs. Church, who grew up doing chores on a family farm (and never tired of telling her pampered sons how easy they had it), met her husband at the University of Illinois, where she received a degree in home economics.
        She worked for a while as a clinical dietitian at New York Hospital, but after her marriage in 1928, she moved to Boston, where her husband was in medical school, and became the dietitian in charge of Mr. Johnson's first restaurant, in Quincy, Mass.
        After a stay in Philadelphia, the couple eventually settled in New Brunswick, N.J., where Dr. Church became chief medical officer at E. R. Squibb & Sons, and he and Mrs. Church worked together on successive revisions of Bowes and Church's, spending countless evenings on the screened side porch of their home on Nichol Avenue going over columns of figures.
        Mrs. Church also put her nutritional training into practice with a vengeance. An excellent cook, she was not content to serve her family precisely balanced meals.
        As her 67-year-old son, Charles Jr. recalled yesterday with a decades old wail, ''I had to eat peanut butter instead of candy.''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      