
        Sidney Darlington, a Bell Labs mathematician who pioneered the design of electronic circuits and whose formulas helped launch rockets 300 times without error, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Exeter, N.H. He was 91.
        At Bell Labs, in Murray Hill, N.J., where he headed the mathematics research center, Dr. Darlington was ranked alongside his colleague Claude Shannon for breakthroughs in communication networks that foreshadowed the integrated circuit and in turn computers and modern communications.
        Dr. Darlington's discovery of ways to custom-design circuits using precise mathematical specifications, a specialty now called network synthesis theory, made him the leading authority in electronic circuits for decades, said Dr. Ernest Kuh, a former colleague who is now at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Before Dr. Darlington's work, circuits were designed in an intuitive, ad hoc manner. His advances won him the highest award in his field, the Medal of Honor of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
        At a chalkboard at Bell Labs with three or four other rocket guidance experts, he would scrawl equations that became the basis for guiding the Air Force Titan I, the Thor-Delta and dozens of other rockets.
        His rocket guidance formulas could instantly plug in the information from several sources -- the trajectory designed to launch a satellite, the data from radar that tracked the rocket, and the instruments in the rocket itself -- and could then return a flow of commands to the rocket.
        Always a tinkerer, Dr. Darlington in the 1950's spent a weekend at home playing with a new gadget, the transistor. Trying to get more gain from an amplifier the size of a kernel of corn, he found a way to combine two or more transistors in one chip, an idea that became the Darlington Compound Chip and pointed the way toward integrated circuits.
        He patented the idea and lived to see the Darlington chip become required study for electrical engineering students everywhere. One of them, Edgar Gilbert, who became his colleague, said the chip was a universal component until the era of integrated circuits.
        ''He was pretty practical for a mathematician,'' Mr. Gilbert said.
        And being practical about money, Dr. Darlington told Bell Labs' lawyers to write the patent for his idea to cover any number of transistors. But they wrote it for only two. Dr. Darlington said later he believed that if the patent had been unlimited, he and Bell Labs, a part of Lucent Technologies, would receive a royalty on every integrated circuit chip.
        He also made advances in radar. In 1947, his system pushed ahead the concept of radar. This approach, using several frequencies to lower the demands for high peak power, made possible the antiballistic missile, or ABM, defense systems, in which Dr. Darlington played a major role, said Dr. Debassis Mitra, the head of mathematics at Bell Labs.
        Dr. Darlington, who was born in Pittsburgh, received bachelor's degrees from Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a doctorate in physics from Columbia University.
        At Bell Labs, where he worked at Bell Labs from 1929 until retiring in 1971, Dr. Darlington also helped run the company's support of the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; two daughters, Ellen Darlington Kerr of Sussex, England, and Rebecca Darlington of Livermore, Calif., and a sister, Celia Wakefield of Albany, Calif.
      