
        Harrison Roth, who was known as an expert on the trading of options, a form of investment contract, died Sunday from cancer, his employer, Cowen & Company, said yesterday. He was 65.
        He was the senior options strategist at Cowen, a securities brokerage firm that he joined in 1989 after nine years with Drexel Burnham Lambert.
        Mr. Roth, who lived on the Upper East Side, devoted himself to explaining both to traders and the general public the benefits and risks of options, which are contracts to buy or sell a stock, bond or other investment at a specific price in the future.
        Mr. Roth taught at the Options Institute in Chicago, which is affiliated with the Chicago Board Options Exchange, and wrote a book about long-term equity anticipation securities titled ''LEAPS: What They Are and How To Use Them For Profit And Protection'' (Irwin Professional, 1994).
        Since 1985, every new trader on the floor of the Chicago Board Options Exchange took a class taught by Mr. Roth, said Alex Jacobson, an exchange vice president.
        ''People write about all sorts of what they say are new strategies on options trades, but there is almost nothing written today about options strategies that Harry didn't write about in the early 70's,'' Mr. Jacobson said.
        A 1984 letter to the editor of The New York Times characterizing options as a form of gambling prompted this reply from Mr. Roth, published a few days later: ''Options might be used for gambling, but so can stocks, bonds, commodities and even Treasury securities. However, they can and are used for completely nonspeculative purposes: hedging, protecting a position, locking in a profit and generally avoiding or reducing rather than assuming risk. This is much too good a tool to be dismissed as a gambling device.''
        Mr. Roth also made cogent observations about the rise of program trading, in which computers automatically sell or buy securities based on changes in market prices, which can lead to big price swings, as investors were reminded during last week's roller-coaster ride on Wall Street. The record volume of stock trades kept many investors from quickly unloading their positions.
        ''Computers will get us to the door sooner,'' Mr. Roth wrote in 1986, ''but we still can't all fit through at the same time.''
        Mr. Roth liked to tell how he got his start on Wall Street. He went to lower Manhattan from his home in the Bronx, walked into a small securities firm and asked what a kid who liked math might do for a living.
        He started out selling puts and calls for Marsh Block & Company. A put is the right to sell a security at a specific price and a call is the right to buy at a specific price.
        When an investor buys a call option on a stock at today's price, and the stock's price rises during the time the option contract is in effect, the option can be executed to profit from the increased price.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith, of Manhattan, from whom he was estranged; a daughter, Jessica, of Manhattan, and a sister, Judith Tarpey of Medford, N.Y. His previous marriage to Helen Roth ended in divorce.
        Correction:  November 10, 1997, Monday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Harrison Roth, a Wall Street expert on the trading of options, omitted a reference to his previous marriage. His first wife, Hazel Gery Roth, died in 1970.
      