
        Herbert Cole Coombs, an economist who was governor of Australia's central bank for 20 years, advised seven Prime Ministers and was one of Australia's most influential public servants, died on Oct. 29 in a Sydney nursing home. He was 91.
        A farmhand's son born near Perth, Western Australia, Mr. Coombs was deeply affected by the Great Depression of the 1930's. As a young man studying for his doctorate at the London School of Economics, which he attended on a scholarship, he embraced the interventionist, deficit-spending ideas of the British economist John Maynard Keynes.
        ''I am by nature an interferer,'' he once said, ''and I would like to do something about things if I can. There is too much poverty, too much intolerance, too much hatred.''
        But during his tenure as central bank governor, from 1948 to 1968, he tended to favor less intervention and greater Government discipline over spending.
        His first appointment to a Government executive post was as head of Australia's efforts to ration essential materials in World War II. Later he was put in charge of postwar economic reconstruction and introduced programs to expand the manufacturing base and increase immigration.
        Mr. Coombs, who is survived by his wife, Mary; three sons, John, Jim and Jerry, and a daughter, Janet, left his mark on areas besides economics. He was a tireless supporter of rights for Aboriginal people. He was not only a student of their social and spiritual lives, spending much time with them in their remote communities, but he was also instrumental in the establishment in 1971 of a Department of Aboriginal Affairs.
        When 400 Aboriginal leaders met in the Northern Territory in 1993 to plan a rights strategy after a Supreme Court decision recognized their title to traditional land, he was the only white man invited.
        He also served as chancellor of the Australian National University, a Canberra institution he helped found in the late 1940's, and as chairman of the Elizabethan Theater Trust and the Australian Arts Council.
        His egalitarianism was put to the test in 1948 when Prime Minister Ben Chifley appointed him to his bank position. The Prime Minister invited him to the Cabinet room for a drink. Mr. Coombs asked for a beer. Mr. Chifley protested, ''Now that you're governor of the bank you should drink whisky or something better.''
        ''If I've got to give up beer,'' Mr. Coombs replied, ''I think I'll resign now.''
      