
        Ralph Burton Rogers, a former chairman of the Public Broadcasting Service who helped defend the organization against attacks by President  Richard M. Nixon in the 1970's, died  on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 87.
        Mr. Rogers, who was also an influential businessman and philanthropist in Dallas, is considered one of the founders of PBS for having decided to organize more than 200 independent, mostly educational stations into a national public television system. He served as chairman of PBS from 1973 to 1979. He was widely credited with resisting efforts by the Nixon Administration to push public television out of public affairs broadcasting and cut its financing.
        ''He basically saved our bacon,'' said Jim Lehrer, the longtime anchor for the nightly PBS newscast ''Newshour,'' adding, ''He carried the water for all of us.'' Mr. Rogers started Mr. Lehrer's television career, recruiting him from a newspaper job in Dallas.
        Mr. Rogers, a lifelong Republican, said he was outraged by Mr. Nixon's actions. ''People like me couldn't believe that any President of the United States could say to the people of the United States, who own the air, that they could not discuss public affairs on the air,'' he said in an interview published this year in The Dallas Morning News.
        Mr. Rogers was also a founding trustee of the Children's Television Workshop and one of the first backers of ''Sesame Street.''
        Born in Boston in 1909, he began by selling diesel engines. He eventually headed the Indian Motorcycle Company and many other concerns.
        But in 1942 he contracted rheumatic fever, which was then often fatal. Though his heart was weakened, he defied his doctor's expectations and survived. He then pressed his doctors for reasons that the disease was considered incurable.
        Told he could not prevent a recurrence, Mr. Rogers said, ''I was so upset at that knowledge that I said, 'I refuse to accept that this massive illness cannot be conquered.' ''
        Challenged by his doctor to find a cure himself, Mr. Rogers set out to do so. He raised money, enlisted the support of drug companies and laboratories, and found scientists who would accept his financial help to work on the disease. Eventually this effort led to the discovery that the disease was linked to strep throat. Through the development of antibiotics, rheumatic fever was all but wiped out.
        For health reasons, Mr. Rogers retired to Dallas in 1950. But he quickly grew restless and bought a 50 percent interest in the Texas Lightweight Aggregate Company, a concrete maker, for just over $300,000. Mr. Rogers rapidly built that company into an enormously successful construction company, renaming it Texas Industries. It now has assets exceeding $800 million.
        Later he became an essential figure in fund-raising projects in Dallas. He is credited with, among other achievements, saving the Dallas Symphony and helping to turn Parkland Hospital into a leading medical institution.
        Mr. Rogers gained a reputation as an inventive man who believed there was no end to what a tenacious person could accomplish. Among the honors he received for were a Horatio Alger Award, a Ralph Lowell Award and -- after buying a house in Maine and taking personal charge of huge beds of flowers and vegetables -- a New England Horticultural Award for the region's best garden.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Nell; four sons, John B., Robert D., Richard G. and William E.; 16 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      