
        Eddie Arcaro, the master of thoroughbred racing for 31 years as America's premier jockey, who five times won the Kentucky Derby and twice swept the Triple Crown, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 81.
        Arcaro died after a long illness, according to his wife, Vera.
        For 24,092 races, from May 18, 1931, when he rode his first race, until Nov. 18, 1961, when he rode his last, George Edward Arcaro was the kid from Cincinnati who became the king of the jockeys.
        He won 4,779 of his races, he won $30 million in purses, he dominated major stakes in America and he won the respect and the ranking that only Bill Shoemaker approached on 20th century race tracks.
        He rode the great horses of the mid-century: Kelso, five straight times voted the Horse of the Year; Whirlaway, Citation, Bold Ruler, Nashua, Native Dancer, Assault, Hill Prince, Sword Dancer and Jaipur. He also won the Preakness six times and the Belmont Stakes six times. He won the Suburban Handicap eight times, the Jockey Club Gold Cup 10 times.
        Arcaro did it all with a street-smart sense that made him a natural in race-riding, a remarkable combination of grace and power on a thousand-pound horse traveling 35 miles an hour for high stakes. He rode with rare technical gifts, but mostly with an uncanny sense of mission that he seemed to share with his horse and a killer's instinct for winning.
        He had firm but sensitive hands, a natural posture in the saddle, an unmatched knack of switching the whip from one hand to the other and a sure sense of pace. And he rode with a casual elegance that did not always hide his intensity.
        ''He was like an extension of me out there,'' said Jimmy Jones, the longtime trainer for Calumet Farm. ''He was the perfect extension of the trainer on the horse. And nobody had his sense of the way the race was being run.''
        In the space of seven years, he did what no other jockey has ever done: win the Triple Crown twice. He did it in 1941 with Whirlaway, in 1948 with Citation, both colts from Calumet Farm winning the Kentucky Derby, Preakness and Belmont within five weeks' time. And he rode horses to the sport's ultimate honor, the title of Horse of the Year, eight times: Whirlaway in 1941 and 1942, Citation in 1948, Nashua in 1955, Bold Ruler in 1957, Sword Dancer in 1959 and Kelso in 1960 and 1961.
        He was asked many times which of his renowned horses was the greatest, and he replied: ''Citation was the best 3-year-old I ever rode. Kelso was the best horse of any age.''
        He was the jockey crouched in the saddle wearing the silks of Calumet Farm in the days when Ben and Jimmy Jones trained the stable into an empire that ruled the sport of kings. And like Joe DiMaggio in baseball, Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus in golf and Joe Louis in boxing, he symbolized the exploding role of the hero in sports in the middle decades of the century.
        He also made history behind the scenes. With his fellow jockeys Sam Renick and Johnny Longden, he founded the Jockeys' Guild and served as its president from 1949 until he retired 12 years later. The guild, during his tenure, took the first steps toward providing financial support, old-age care, life insurance and health insurance for jockeys.
        When he retired in 1961, he was still the rider on Kelso. But the difference, Arcaro explained, was that you could not ride just Kelso.
        ''You just can't ride only on Saturdays,'' he said. ''You have to want to win every race, not just the big ones. You just can't come out on the weekend. If you're not up to every race, it's time to quit.''
        When he did quit, only two other riders had more winners: Longden and Sir Gordon Richards of Britain. Since then, Shoemaker extended his own career and passed everybody, with 8,833 winners. But nobody could rival Arcaro when major money was on the line.
        He won the Kentucky Derby aboard Lawrin in 1938, Whirlaway in 1941, Hoop Jr. in 1945, Citation in 1948 and Hill Gail in 1952. He might have won the Derby with Nashua in 1955, but he was beaten by Swaps, who was ridden by Shoemaker, by 1 1/2 lengths. But Nashua came back to win the Preakness and Belmont Stakes, then ran away from Swaps in the celebrated match race at Washington Park in Chicago.
        Arcaro was so sure of winning that race, in fact, that before the race he told Shoemaker, his friend and rival: ''Look at this colt's head now. When that gate opens, all you're going to see is his rear end.''
        Psychological warfare or not, he was right: Nashua led every step of the way and won by 6 1/2 lengths.
        Arcaro seemed at his dramatic best when he either was injured or punished during memorable rides. His most notorious case of outrage came in 1942, and cost him a year of competition.
        He was riding a horse named Occupation at the old Aqueduct track in Queens when he got into a lengthy test of jousting with Vincent Nodarse aboard Breezing Home. It began when Nodarse came over on Arcaro right after they broke from the gate, and it continued in a series of bumpings until Arcaro, with calculation and force, knocked the other jockey off his mount and almost into the infield.
        Afterward, Arcaro was being questioned by the chief steward, the late Marshall Cassidy, who asked what he had been trying to do. With obvious passion and full frankness, Arcaro screamed, ''I was trying to kill the S.O.B.''
        Cassidy promptly suspended him indefinitely, and later Arcaro recalled: ''Marshall must have had the first tape recorder in the world. Every time I would go up for a hearing, he would play that tape.''
        The suspension continued for a year, most of which Arcaro spent on a horse farm in South Carolina, learning to play golf and reflecting on his own impetuosity in the scheme of things. When he was reprieved, he was an older, wiser and headier jockey.
        George Edward Arcaro, who was born in Cincinnati in 1916, started riding at Bainbridge Park outside Cleveland in 1931 but did not ride a winner for eight months until January 1932, at Agua Caliente in Mexico. When the meeting ended, he was hired by Clarence Davison, a trainer who took the young Arcaro into his home, monitored his activities strictly and taught him how to ride and rate a horse with professional skill.
        In 1934, Arcaro tasted success at New Orleans and then shipped out to Chicago, where Warren Wright of Calumet Farm bought his contract from Davison for $6,000. He stayed with Calumet until late in 1936, when he signed with Greentree Stable of Mrs. Payne Whitney. In 1946, he became a freelance rider and picked his mounts until his career ended.
        His most critical moment came in the 1959 Belmont Stakes when his mount, Black Hills, went down midway through the final turn. Arcaro was thrown and knocked unconscious, and nearly drowned lying face down in a six-inch puddle. Pat O'Brien of the New York Racing Association ran down the track and pulled his head out of the water. Arcaro also gave credit to the Caliente safety helmet, which was new at the time. He sustained injuries to his neck and back, though, and spent several weeks in the hospital.
        In his later years, Arcaro lived in Miami near the race tracks and golf courses he loved, visited Gulfstream Park occasionally, played golf with DiMaggio or held lengthy sessions on the telephone with his longtime friend, Renick. He is survived by his wife; a son, Robert, and a daughter, Carolyn.
        Once a year, he would hold a reunion with Jimmy Jones, his old Calumet trainer, who was then approaching 90 and who would argue with Arcaro long into the night about their adventures of half a century ago.
        They recalled how Arcaro had become the rider on Citation in 1948 two races before the Kentucky Derby. But Arcaro recalled how he began to wonder if he should have chosen Citation's stablemate, the speedball Coaltown, instead. When he would ask Jones if he was on the ''right horse,'' Jones would reply, ''You're on the right horse.'' But when the gate opened to start the Derby, they sprang forward and Coaltown went flying far in front.
        ''I was sitting on Citation watching Coaltown get smaller and smaller in front of us,'' Arcaro remembered, ''and I thought, 'I've got the wrong horse.' But when I asked Citation to run, he shot past Coaltown and everybody else with ease, and I knew then that I had the right horse.''
      