
        Stephen L. R. McNichols, a liberal Democrat who served as Governor of Colorado as the state was emerging from its agrarian past, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Denver. He was 83 and lived in Denver.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. McNichols, a lawyer, was Colorado's 35th governor, serving from 1957 to 1963. He oversaw programs to modernize the state government, enact fair reapportionment, survey water resources and establish a state planning agency. He was an advocate of conservation and reclamation projects.
        He worked to reform health care for the mentally ill and to revise the state's tax structure to meet an urgent need to finance education programs. He also consolidated public schools and left a legacy of improved state highways.
        To pay for his policies, he carried out a three-year revenue program meant to distribute the tax burden more equitably. As it worked out, the program also raised the taxes of the modestly paid Coloradans who had propelled him into office, and he lost his re-election bid in 1962 to John A. Love, a Republican.
        Mr. McNichols graduated from Regis College in 1936 and received a law degree from Catholic University in 1939. He worked as an F.B.I. field officer and prosecutor until he enlisted in the Navy in 1942, winning a Bronze Star and moving up to lieutenant commander.
        He was elected to the State Senate in 1948, ran successfully for lieutenant governor and was elected governor in 1956. With a change in the State Constitution, the governor's term was raised to four years from two, and Mr. McNichols was re-elected, for four years, in 1958.
        He was a past chairman of the National Governors' Conference and a national Democratic committee man from Colorado.
        He lost a Senate bid in 1968, but remained politically active. In the late 1970's he was a regional director for the Department of Commerce.
        Mr. McNichols is survived by his wife of 55 years, Marjory Hart McNichols; three sons, Stephen Jr., of Danville, Calif., Robert M., of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and the Rev. William H., of New York City; two daughters, Mary Taylor and Marjory Wilson, both of Denver; 10 grandchildren, and 1 great-grandchild.
      