
        Anne-Stine Ingstad, the Norwegian archeologist who sifted through the sandy soil above a Newfoundland beach and uncovered the remains of a 1,000-year-old Viking outpost, died on Thursday at her home in Oslo.
        She was 79. Friends said the cause was cancer.
        Mrs. Ingstad was the wife of Helge Ingstad, 98, whose discovery of the site in 1961 produced the first conclusive evidence that Vikings had made a North American beachhead 500 years before Columbus.
        That Vikings sailing from the Norse colony in Greenland had reached the North American continent early in the 11th century had long been a source of legend, including the Icelandic Sagas, which described the voyages in detail.
        Although few scholars doubted that Leif Ericsson and other Vikings had made such voyages, until the Ingstads sailed along the northern tip of Newfoundland in 1961 and were led by fishermen to the site known as L'Anse aux Meadows, there was no hard evidence of a Viking presence, only a spate of spurious artifacts.
        While there was some initial skepticism, especially about Mr. Ingstad's claim that the settlement was the one that Leif Ericsson called Vinland, once Mrs. Ingstad began digging, doubt began evaporating.
        Although Mr. Ingstad is given full credit for finding the site, once he had seen the low outlines of the old turf walls covered with vegetation, he left it to Mrs. Ingstad to supervise the excavation.
        A native of Lillehammer, Mrs. Ingstad, whose maiden name was Moe, studied archeology at the University of Oslo..
        She soon met Mr. Ingstad, a dashingly handsome explorer and adventurer who had abandoned a lucrative law career in 1926 to spend four years living among and studying the Indians and Eskimoes of northern Canada, producing a series of books on that and other backwoods adventures.
        After the two married in 1941, she became his scientific collaborator and companion in adventure.
        While Mr. Ingstad was serving as Governor of Spitsbergen Island in the early 1950's, a visit to a Viking excavation in Greenland fired his interest in finding the Viking camp in Vinland.
        Recognizing that some of the uncovered artifacts, including a quartzite arrowhead unknown in Greenland, Iceland or Norway, were common in Labrador and Newfoundland, he decided to use those and other clues, including the vivid geographic descriptions of the Icelandic Sagas, to find the camp described by Ericsson and others.
        Searching by air and sea as far south as Rhode Island without success, he eventually turned his attention to the fingerlike northern tip of Newfoundland.
        It was during a cruise along the coast with his wife and their daughter, Benedicta, then 18, that local fishermen led him to what he had been looking for: a low-lying, elevated terrace just behind a beach.
        Once the site had been discovered, Mrs. Ingstad carried out excavations over several summers, gradually uncovering the foundations of eight buildings, including a large house almost identical to Ericsson's great hall in Greenland.
        In one of Mrs. Ingstad's discoveries, in 1964, she unearthed a tiny stone spinning wheel suggesting that women had been among the 100 or so Vikings who used the camp as a base for far-reaching explorations over several years.
        After 1966, the couple left further excavations to others, but remained closely associated with L'Anse aux Meadows and were on hand in 1980 when Unesco designated it an official World Heritage Site, like the Pyramids of Egypt and the Grand Canyon.
        After her triumphs at L'Anse aux Meadows, Mrs. Ingstad pursued her own work, obtaining a doctorate from the University of Oslo in 1968 and publishing a book on Viking textiles in 1992.
        But even in her later years, there was always a reminder of Leif Ericsson. The nine-acre Ingstad estate in Oslo is called Bratahlid, the name Ericsson gave his home in Greenland.
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Ingstad is survived by five grandchildren.
      