
        Grayson Louis Kirk, the scholarly president of Columbia University whose ill-fated decision in the spring of 1968 to turn 1,000 police officers in riot gear against student protesters became an emblem of the generational conflict characterizing the Vietnam War era, died early yesterday morning.
        He was 94 and died in his sleep at his home in Bronxville, N.Y., his son, John G. Kirk, said.
        For many years, the university grew and prospered under Dr. Kirk's leadership. An exponent of broad, liberal education of the sort Columbia offered, he proved adept at relating to the trustees and to raising money. Under him, the university quadrupled the size of its endowment. It also expanded its library, introduced new academic programs and built more than a dozen new buildings.
        But toward the end of his tenure, Dr. Kirk was widely viewed as no match for the enormous pressures for social change surging through the institution in the late 60's. He resigned shortly after the student protests of 1968.
        Dr. Kirk became the university's president in 1953, succeeding Dwight D. Eisenhower after his election as President. A portly, pipe-smoking man, he presided over a period of enormous growth for the university. But as the 60's swept by, Dr. Kirk repeatedly found himself and Columbia at the center of public controversies: for deteriorating relations with the surrounding community, capped by the university's decision to build a gymnasium in Morningside Park; for taking a controlling interest in a cigarette filter whose sale would bring revenues to Columbia; and finally, for the way he handled the student demonstrations of 1968. Those demonstrations were directed against the building of the gymnasium and the university's affiliation with a consortium that did military research for the Government.
        Students took over five campus buildings and the president's office.  The pressure built as the police stood outside the campus gates while faculty and student negotiating committees tried to end the protest. Finally, on April 30, 1,000 helmeted police officers swarmed onto campus and began dragging away the protesters,  kicking and beating those who did not move fast enough. Hundreds of students were arrested and dozens injured. Dr. Kirk said the decision to call in the police was ''obviously the most painful one I ever made.''
        As the students left, they chanted: ''Kirk must go, Kirk must go.''
        A second campus protest a month later resulted in another battle between student protesters and police, but Dr. Kirk resisted leaving office, declaring repeatedly that he would not bow to the protesters and resign.
        But in August 1968, just four months after students had first occupied his office, he stepped down, saying that he hoped his retirement would ''insure the prospect of more normal university operations.''
        He became president emeritus, and said he would continue to help raise money for the university.
        As college administrators everywhere faced campus protests and challenges to their authority, the actions of Dr. Kirk and Columbia administrators were closely examined.  The Cox Commission, a panel established by Columbia's faculty to investigate the campus uprisings, said that Columbia's administration and trustees had ''too often conveyed an attitude of authoritarianism and invited mistrust.''
        The 222-page report, delivered in October 1969 and written largely by the panel's chairman, Archibald Cox, a Harvard Law School professor and former Solicitor General of the United States, was sharply critical of Dr. Kirk's tenure.
        ''The hurricane of social unrest struck Columbia at a time when the university was deficient in the cement that binds an institution into a cohesive unit,'' the report said.
        It took Columbia to task for the ''unhealthy relations'' with the largely black community of Harlem, pointing to its ''indifference'' to the poor and the manner in which the university had expanded its presence in Morningside Heights.
        But the commission pointed to equally poor relations on the campus itself, and criticized the administration for its handling of the student protests. ''The trauma of the violence that followed police intervention intensified emotions, but support for the demonstrators rested upon broad discontent and widespread sympathy for their position.''
        After Dr. Kirk stepped down, the university began to try to change the imperious manner emanating from the president's office. In sharp contrast to Dr. Kirk's continued resistance to expanding the governance of the university to include more input from students and faculty, Andrew Cordier, his successor as acting president, said he would stress ''the human values and participatory possibilities of university life.''
        Grayson Kirk grew up in a bucolic  Middle Western town far removed from the turmoil-ridden urban campus he would later inherit. He was born on a farm in Jeffersonville, Ohio, a town of 800, on Oct. 12, 1903. His father was a farmer, his mother a schoolteacher.
        Although he first wanted to be a foreign correspondent, he moved into educational administration as a young man, serving briefly as a high school principal even before he graduated from Miami University in Ohio. After earning a master of arts degree at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., and studying at the Ecole Libres des Sciences Politiques in Paris, he completed a doctorate at the University of Wisconsin in 1930, where he taught for a decade.
        Dr. Kirk arrived at Columbia in 1940 as an associate professor of government. With Columbia as a base, he moved in and out of international affairs. He took a leave in 1942 to head the security section of the State Department's political studies division, and then left again in 1944 to serve on the United States staff at the Dumbarton Oaks Conference. He also participated in the establishment of the United Nations Security Council in San Francisco in 1945.
        Back at Columbia, he became the director of Columbia's new Institute for European Studies, and from there, took charge of planning for the installation of Eisenhower as Columbia's president in 1948. A year later, Dr. Kirk was made provost.
        A man of few words, he said he found administration ''better that I had anticipated.'' He said he had had to take an earlier train from Scarsdale -- the 8:15 A.M. instead of the 9:07 -- and had had to give up golf and his woodworking shop in his home cellar. ''It's full of headaches, as I expected,'' he said in 1950, ''but more interesting that I thought it would be. And then, too, I'm pretty good at delegating things.''
        When Eisenhower was elected President of the United States in 1952, Dr. Kirk was an easy choice as his successor at Columbia. He had served as acting president of the university when Eisenhower took a leave to head NATO forces in 1951. When Eisenhower left Columbia on January 5, 1953, Columbia's trustees asked Dr. Kirk to step out of the boardroom for a few minutes. Minutes later, he was named Columbia's 14th president.
        Under him, Columbia's endowment ballooned from about $100 million to more than $400 million. And in 1966, he initiated a $200 million, three-year capital-fund drive. In the first 14 months, with Dr. Kirk's active solicitation of alumni and others, Columbia raised more than $70 million in gifts and pledges, which was said to be a record at the time.
        Academically, the university expanded, too. It introduced a variety of new research programs and institutes, from the Southern Asian Institute to the Division of Urban Planning in the School of Architecture. With a $10 million grant from the Ford Foundation, Columbia also created a Center for Urban Community Affairs, aimed at improving employment, education, health, housing and cultural opportunities in Harlem.
        During Dr. Kirk's tenure, the university also doubled the size of its library to four million volumes and added more than a dozen new buildings, both on its Morningside Heights campus and farther afield, including the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and the Lamont Geological Observatory in Palisade, N.Y.
        But as the 1960's unfolded, Dr. Kirk found himself increasingly embroiled in controversy. He was criticized in 1967, when Columbia tried to profit from a cigarette filter whose value many found questionable. He drew fire from students and Harlem residents for Columbia's plan to  build a gymnasium in Morningside Park, which was seen as a symbol of the university's distance from the Harlem community and its interests. He was attacked personally for his membership in the Institute for Defense Analyses, a consortium of universities doing research for the Government.
        But even as student protests mounted, there were signs that Dr. Kirk had at least some understanding of the problems facing the nation and campuses like his. In a speech at the University of Virginia in early April of 1968, just weeks before Columbia erupted in battle, Dr. Kirk called for the United States to get out of Vietnam ''as quickly as possible,'' saying that none of the country's social, economic or political problems could be managed until the war was ended.
        ''In many ways, our society is in a more perilous condition than at any time since the convulsive conflict between the states a century ago,'' he said. Disrespect for law and authority had reached such a level of acceptance, he added, that ''its natural concomitant, resort to violence, has almost achieved respectability.''
        But if he understood the nature of the problem intellectually, he showed little capacity to deal with it practically. Less than two weeks later, students occupied his office.
        Although President Kirk said he would put the issue of the gym before the trustees, and the university initially resisted bringing in police for fear of worsening tensions, it ultimately filed trespassing charges against the students occupying five buildings, and the police charged in to clear the buildings.
        But protests continued, and student demands for Dr. Kirk's resignation escalated. The president said that since he was 64, he had discussed retirement with the trustees before the protests began. But, he declared, ''I am not going to resign under fire, because that would be a victory for those who are out to destroy the university.''
        But his presidency encountered growing difficulties. He was accompanied by heavy security. And in June, rather than risk disruption of commencement ceremonies, he stayed away and let his academic vice president preside.
        Then, in August, he announced that he would step down, saying that ''campus events'' prevented him from devoting enough time to raising money as would be desirable.
        The trustees accepted his resignation ''with deep regret,'' and stressed that it was voluntary.
        Dr. Kirk served out his terms as president of the Council on Foreign Relations and of the Association of American Universities, and continued to help raise money for Columbia.
        But after 1968, Dr. Kirk largely faded from public view. His wife, Marion Sands Kirk, died last year. He is survived by his son, John G., as well as by four granddaughters and two great-grandchildren.
        But whenever the events of the '60's are replayed, as on the 25th anniversary of the Columbia protest in 1993, Dr. Kirk and his legacy are remembered. There were campus protests around the country, but Columbia's was one of most explosive.
        Correction:  December 3, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary on Nov. 22 about Grayson L. Kirk, the president of Columbia University who called the police to confront student protesters in 1968, misstated his role in that year's commencement. Dr. Kirk presided; he did not stay away. But the address traditionally given by the president was delivered instead by Prof. Richard Hofstadter to reduce the chances that the ceremony would be disrupted.
      