
        Eli A. Finn, whose vigor and wry views of a 100-year swath of the modern era earned him a measure of fame in his later years, died on Saturday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., at the age of 107.
        He died of natural causes, said Joe Singer, the manager of Collins Funeral Home in Norwalk. ''I think he just stopped going,'' he said.
        That is saying something, for Mr. Finn rarely seemed to stop going. As an appliances sales executive, he spent 41 years at Magic Chef in New York City before retiring in 1973 at age 83 under the terms of a company policy. He was then hired by Unity Stove in Manhattan, retiring voluntarily in 1990 at age 100. Then, he went back to school.
        Until shortly before he died, Mr. Finn maintained season tickets to the New York City Opera and drove, until he was 104, with a healthy zeal in the fast lane. One favorite destination was Fairfield University, where he pursued his lifelong passion for education after his final retirement.
        ''Two things,'' Mr. Finn often answered when asked about his remarkable longevity. ''Be involved and have a good attitude.''
        Mr. Finn was born in Lithuania on July 17, 1890, and his steadfast optimism carried him through a life that bore witness to a century of triumphs and horrors. His parents died in Nazi concentration camps. Mr. Finn himself had left Russia in 1907, partly to escape anti-Semitism, but also to pursue higher education. But after attending Springfield Y.M.C.A. College, in Massachusetts, he was denied a diploma in his final year because he was Jewish. When he asked why he had been accepted in the first place, school officials said they had hoped he would convert to Christianity. In 1989, after learning of his story, Springfield College awarded him an honorary degree.
        His sharp memory and vigorous approach to life brought Mr. Finn to the attention of historians and writers. In his advancing years, he spoke to history classes studying the modern era, and journalists wrote about his thoughts and experiences. He cast his first Presidential ballot for Woodrow Wilson in 1912, and in the 1990's he subscribed to the journal published by the Woodrow Wilson International Center.
        He is survived by a son, Robert Finn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a daughter, Mirian Smolev of Wyckoff, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Libby Miller of Weston, Conn.; five grandchildren; five step-grandchildren, and numerous great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren. Both of his wives, Ida Rossoff Finn and Sylvia Dietz Finn, are dead.
      