
        Dr. Aaron J. Sharp, a botanist and avid popularizer of botany who applied his studies of moss around the world to such sweeping questions as plate tectonics, died on Nov. 16 at Fort Sanders Regional Medical Center in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 93.
        Dr. Sharp was a co-author of ''Great Smoky Mountains Wildflowers,'' first published in 1961. It became one of the most popular books of the University of Tennessee Press, selling nearly 200,000 copies. He refused royalties from the book to keep its cost low.
        Dr. Sharp was considered the leading international authority on moss, said Dr. Edward Clebsch, a former professor of botany and ecology at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
        Dr. Sharp found identical ancient mosses in Japan, Mexico and Appalachia that had not evolved for millions of years, which conformed to theories that large tectonic plates on the earth's surface had moved apart, said Dr. Howard Crum, a botanist at the University of Michigan.
        ''He found that moss reveals a great deal about the relationship of global plant systems because it gets around pretty easy,'' Dr. Clebsch said. ''Spores are airborne, small and light, and carry long distances.''
        Dr. Sharp founded one of the world's best known wildflower events, the annual ''Wildflower Pilgrimage,'' held the last weekend in April in the Great Smoky Mountains. For 53 years, crowds have gathered at the event to see blooming wild iris, dogwoods, mountain laurel shrubs up to 40 feet high, flame azalea and scores of other forest flowers.
        Japan awarded Dr. Sharp the Order of the Rising Sun for his findings on the relationships of ecosystems of Asia and the Americas.
        He was one of two authors of ''Moss Flora of Mexico,'' published in 1994 by the New York Botanical Garden.
        Born in Plain City, Ohio, he graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1927. He received his master's degree from the University of Oklahoma in 1929 and his Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1938.
        He taught at the University of Tennessee from 1929 to his retirement in 1974, and he was head of botany from 1951 to 1961. He served on the board of governors of the Nature Conservancy from 1955 to 1961.
        Dr. Sharp is survived by his wife of 68 years, Evelyn Sharp of Knoxville; a son, Fred Prentiss of San Francisco; three daughters, Rosa Chambers of Knoxville, Katharine Lopez of Man, W.Va., and Jennifer Louise Leagan of Bristol, Tenn.; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      