
        Coleman A. Young, the combative, tart-tongued former union organizer who became the first black Mayor of Detroit when he was elected in 1973 and then went on to run the city for a record 20 years, died yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He was 79.
        The cause of death was respiratory failure, officials said.
        A popular and streetwise politician, Mr. Young became a hero to black voters who saw his victory as a sign of their growing power in local government, especially in cities in need of healing after race riots in the previous decade. His election came as a growing list of black mayors in Northern cities were elected by black voters long frustrated with white-dominated administrations.
        But like the other black mayors, Mr. Young also presided over a city that more than once came close to bankruptcy. Detroit had already been reeling from high unemployment in the automobile industry, a high crime rate and deteriorating housing when he was elected.
        Afterward, the Motor City lost even more of its factories, stores and jobs as well as thousands of its middle-class residents, particularly whites who had been moving to the suburbs in great numbers since Detroit's 1967 race riots. Mr. Young, in his autobiography, ''Hard Stuff'' (Viking Penguin, 1994), noted that 1.6 million whites lived in Detroit at the end of World War II and that only 200,000 were left by 1990.
        ''I don't dispute the gravity of Detroit's problems,'' he wrote. ''They are basically the same problems that beset every American city, except that they are magnified by the fact that modern Detroit was built around the auto industry, which has been losing blood for two decades, and the accompanying reality that white flight, industrial and social, has left Detroit with the damnedest demographics in America.''
        Mr. Young, inaugurated in January 1974, decided that the city could not survive without cooperation among business, labor and the state and Federal governments. So he called together some of Detroit's leading business and labor figures and persuaded them to approve his plan for reshaping the riverfront. With their help, the Renaissance Center office-retail complex became the showpiece of downtown, and the adjacent Hart Plaza, a riverfront park, became the area's anchor.
        The center, built for $350 million by a consortium of of more than 50 corporate investors led by the Ford Motor Company, opened in 1977. It included four cylindrical office towers and a hotel. In May 1996, the Renaissance Center was bought by General Motors for about $80 million. The fact that the complex sold for less than a quarter of the price it cost to build two decades earlier was said to reflect the real-estate market's wariness in investing in a deteriorated downtown.
        Mr. Young also developed a five-year economic plan for Detroit that he presented to President Gerald R. Ford in 1975 with the idea that it could be a blueprint for saving the nation's cities. Mr. Young had hoped that Mr. Ford, a former Michigan Congressman, would not let the state's largest city falter. But the  plan failed to gain the support of the Republican Administration.
        Even so, Mr. Young's efforts led to several major construction projects in his first and second terms, including new plants for General Motors and the Chrysler Corporation. The Mayor was also credited with keeping Detroit financially afloat in the late 1970's and early 1980's by persuading city workers to accept cuts in salaries and fringe benefits and voters to approve a $96 million increase in income taxes.
        But that was not enough to keep businesses and residents from fleeing the city. Although the riverfront began to look prosperous, the rest of downtown was often compared with a war zone, with neighborhoods crumbling, businesses boarded up and poverty remaining high.
        Still, black Detroiters viewed Mr. Young as their future and their hope. That view was first reflected in Mr. Young's three-day inauguration celebration, when blacks joined the city's political elite. It was also at that inauguration that Mr. Young's stormy relationship with the largely white suburbs seemed to begin.
        ''I issue an open warning to all dope pushers, to all rip-off artists, to all muggers,'' Mr. Young said at his inauguration in pledging to fight crime. ''It is time to leave Detroit.  And I don't give a damn if they are black or white, if they wear Superfly suits or blue uniforms with silver badges. Hit the road.''
        The reaction to Mr. Young's speech illustrated the depth of the racial divide between the city and its suburbs. Blacks heard one thing in his inaugural remarks while whites heard something completely different. Blacks applauded the new Mayor, understanding him to say that Detroit would get tough on crime and address their concerns about brutality and harassment in the largely white police department.
        But the Mayor's statement angered many white suburbanites, who saw it as an invitation for the city's criminals to enter the suburbs and wreak havoc, and it troubled many white city residents, who saw it as an attack on the police department.
        Most white voters had backed Mr. Young's opponent, John F. Nichols, a white former Police Commissioner, who lost by a slim margin. Mr. Young won the election largely on the promise to ease tension between the police and black residents.
        As a step in that direction, he eliminated a police decoy unit whose officers had been accused of killing 22 black residents and arresting hundreds more without cause during its two-and-a-half-year existence. And he began a hiring program that infused the police force with officers from a wide range of ethnic and racial minorities. Under the program, the proportion of blacks rose to more than 50 percent in 1993 from less than 10 percent in 1974 and has remained at about that level.
        Both actions were credited with reducing the number of brutality complaints against the city's police to 825 in 1982 from 2,323 in 1975.
        Mr. Young won his second term in 1977 with 60 percent of the vote and seemed politically invincible by his third term in 1982. Even his critics said he could be the Mayor as long as he wanted. But his third term was marred by two Federal investigations that grew out of his efforts to direct city business to black-owned companies. No charges were ever filed against him in either case.
        He breezed to a fourth term in 1986 without making the expected bridge-building racial appeals. Isabel Wilkerson, writing in The New York Times after Mr. Young won a nonpartisan primary over a dozen challengers, said the Mayor, running in a city in which 70 percent of the voters were black, seemed ''to revel in the sort of polarization that other politicians dread.''
        A biographer of Mr. Young, Wilbur Rich, a political science professor at Wayne State University, said in 1989: ''He embodies all the things that a lot of black people can't be themselves -- tough, combative, confrontational. He will tell white people off in a minute. That's reassuring to a lot of black people.''
        Near the end of his fifth term in 1993, with his health deteriorating because of emphysema, Mr. Young decided not to run for re-election. His power and influence were somewhat on the wane, but few doubted that if his constituents sensed that he needed them in a close election, they would turn out for him.
        Mr. Young was twice married and divorced. He is survived by a son, Coleman Young Jr., and by two sisters, Juanita Clark and Bernice Greer of Detroit.
        Coleman Alexander Young was born on May 24, 1918, in Tuscaloosa, Ala. His family moved to Detroit when he was 5, settling in Black Bottom, a racially and ethnically mixed neighborhood where Mr. Young's father opened a dry-cleaning and tailoring shop.
        Mr. Young graduated from high school with an excellent academic record but went to work on a Ford assembly line after failing to obtain  financial aid to attend the University of Michigan. He became a union organizer and then a postal worker before being drafted in World War II. He served in the 332d Fighter Group, the all-black Army Air Corps unit known as the Tuskegee Airmen, rising to second lieutenant.
        He returned to the post office after the war. Later dismissed for union organizing, he bounced from job to job before helping to organize the Negro Labor Council, a group seeking equal job opportunities for blacks. His work with the council led to his being called in 1952 before the House Un-American Activities Committee, which was investigating Communism. Under questioning about his work with the council, Mr. Young declared, ''I am not here as a stool pigeon.''
        Mr. Young was considered too radical by labor and management, and it was difficult for him to find work in the 1950's. He found a series of jobs, including salesman, cabdriver and painter, but kept his interest in politics. In 1959, he ran for state representative from the Black Bottom District but lost by a small margin. In 1963 he was elected to the State Senate, where he served until becoming Mayor. In the Senate, he was instrumental in gaining open-housing legislation and repealing a ban on busing to achieve racial integration.
        Mr. Young, one of the first big-city mayors to support Jimmy Carter's Presidential bid in 1976, enjoyed his greatest prominence during the Carter Administration.
        Mr. Young was the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee from 1977 to 1981 and the chairman of the Democratic Convention Platform Committee in 1980. He also led the United States Conference of Mayors from 1981 to 1983 and the National Democratic Conference of Mayors in 1980.
        Perhaps emblematic of his tenacity, Mr. Young had been in intensive care since July 24. He suffered cardiac arrest on Nov. 12, and his heart stopped for about 40 minutes before doctors revived him. He had chronic respiratory problems, which periodically led to rumors that he had died.
        He wrote in his autobiography: ''I would also call Detroit the most resilient city in America, to which end I kind of like to think that it takes after its Mayor of the past 20 years. We've been through a lot together, up to and including the unsubstantiated rumors of our demise.''
      