
        Robert Palmer, a music critic, historian, musician and producer, died yesterday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 52 and had lived in New Orleans.
        The cause was complications from liver disease, said Claire Palermo Flower, a spokeswoman for the medical center, where Mr. Palmer had been awaiting a liver transplant.
        Mr. Palmer was the chief popular music critic of The New York Times from 1981 to 1988 and a contributing editor to Rolling Stone magazine since the early 1970's. He was a distinguished observer and scholar of American music and its sources worldwide.
        In Mr. Palmer's writing, popular music was never parochial. He mixed vivid musical insight with broader cultural and historical connections. He was equally at home discussing Indian ragas with Eric Clapton, analyzing the tuning systems of Sonic Youth, playing clarinet alongside Ornette Coleman and the Master Musicians of Joujouka in Morocco or collecting the life stories of obscure bluesmen in Mississippi Delta juke joints. He celebrated music for its rule-breaking spirit, far-flung roots, stubborn characters and untamed noise.
        Mr. Palmer was born in Little Rock, Ark., and while growing up there he played saxophone and clarinet in blues, rock and soul bands. He graduated from the University of Arkansas in Little Rock in 1967.
        In the mid-1960's he became a founder and organizer of the Memphis Country Blues Festival. Dividing his time between Memphis and Hoboken, N.J., he worked for Go magazine in New York and was a founding member of a band based in Hoboken, the Insect Trust, that made an album in 1968 for Capitol Records and one in 1970 for Atco Records.
        But he soon became a full-time writer on music, contributing to both scholarly and popular publications, from Rolling Stone and Atlantic Monthly to the Journal of American Folk Lore and Ethnomusicology. In 1976, he began writing regularly for The New York Times.
        In 1981 Mr. Palmer became the first full-time popular music critic at The New York Times covering performances from the Art Ensemble of Chicago to Madonna. Recordings he made with Ornette Coleman in Morocco in 1973 appeared on Mr. Coleman's 1977 album, ''Dancing In Your Head'' (A&M Records). Mr. Palmer taught at Brooklyn College, where he was the first senior research fellow of the Institute for Studies in American Music, working on the book that became ''A Tale of Two Cities: Memphis Rock and New Orleans Roll'' (Brooklyn College, 1979).
        He also taught courses in American music at Yale University, Carnegie Mellon University and Bowdoin College, and wrote ''Jerry Lee Lewis Rocks!'' (Deep Delilah -- G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1981), ''Baby That Was Rock and Roll: Legendary Lieber and Stoller'' (Harvest -- Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1978), ''The Rolling Stones'' (Rolling Stone Press -- Doubleday, 1983) and ''Deep Blues'' (Viking Press, 1981).
        In 1988, Mr. Palmer left The New York Times and returned to the South to teach and write about American music at the University of Mississippi. He was the writer and music director of two documentaries, ''The World According to John Coltrane'' and ''Deep Blues,'' and in the early 1990's he produced a series of albums of raw-boned juke joint blues by Junior Kimbrough, R.L. Burnside and Dave Thompson on the Fat Possum label. He was the chief adviser for ''Rock and Roll: An Unruly History,'' a 10-part public television series produced by WGBH in Boston and the British Broadcasting Company, and the author of a book by the same name, published in 1995 by Harmony Books.
        He is survived by his mother, Marguerite Palmer, of Little Rock, a sister, Dorothy Cox of Little Rock, his wife, Jo Beth Briton, his daughter, Augusta, of Brooklyn, N.Y., and his step-daughter, Hanna Fricketson of Little Rock.
      