
        Werner Hofer, one of the best-known television journalists in postwar Germany, whose career was ended by reports about his activities under the Nazis, died at his home in Cologne Tuesday night, German television reported. He was 84.
        Mr. Hofer achieved national fame for over 30 years with a roundtable discussion called ''Der Internationale Fruhschoppen'' that aired on Sunday mornings and brought together German and foreign correspondents to discuss issues of the day.
        The program's title meant, roughly, ''a morning drink,'' and each of the six participants had a glass of wine set before them. In the era before soap operas and game shows, the program became an instititution, as did Mr. Hofer who was widely seen as a political liberal. His program reached a regular audience of over five million West Germans -- along with millions more in Switzerland and East Germany -- and was seen as a token of postwar West Germany's fascination with foreign perceptions of its fortunes.
        Mr. Hofer conceived the program in 1952 after Hugh Greene, the head of broadcasting in what was then the British zone of occupation in postwar Germany, appointed him to head the current affairs department of the North West German Broadcasting Corporation in Cologne.
        The program was broadcast nationally on state television, from 1953 on. Mr. Hofer, always immaculately dressed, acted as the program's anchorman in a courtly, mannered way that disguised a sharp tongue. One newspaper once called him the ''grand seigneur of German journalism.''
        In 1962, however, while Germany was still divided, reports began to emerge from East Germany that Mr. Hofer had played the role of a Nazi propagandist. At the time, he rebutted the reports, saying a contentious article that appeared under his name in 1943 concerning the execution of a young piano virtuoso, Karlrobert Kreiten, had been rewritten by Nazi officials.
        But when the reports resurfaced in 1987, in the news magazine Der Spiegel, German television authorities demanded that he hand over the Sunday morning program to someone else. He quit in December 1987, bitterly disappointed at the television authorities' failure to back him.
        The episode revealed deep divisions within West Germany, with some commentators exulting in what they depicted as the unmasking of an unwholesome past while an opinion survey at the time showed that 70 percent of people questioned thought he should stay on. His position became an emblem of what Germans call ''the overcoming of the past,'' highlighting many ambiguities.
        ''Whoever needs to demonstrate the purity of his convictions through the so-called Hofer case has to be careful not to be seen as a self-righteous hypocrite,'' one newspaper, the Neue Westfalische Zeitung, said of the affair.
        At the time, Mr. Hofer said he ''deeply regretted'' his writings as a Nazi, particularly his article alluding to the pianist.
        The 1943 article, which did not mention the pianist by name, said that artists who went astray should be treated differently from ordinary citizens. Mr. Kreiten was executed after a neighbor denounced him to the Gestapo for offhand remarks about Hitler.
        Mr. Hofer was born in Kaisersech, a small village near the Moselle River on March 21, 1913, and joined the Nazi Party in 1933. He was drafted as a press officer in the Todt Organization -- a Nazi institution responsible for building works that made broad use of slave labor.
        He was drafted into military service in 1944 and ended the Second World War as a captive of American forces.
        His Nazi party membership had been widely known before Der Spiegel's article about him in 1987 and he had long maintained that the offending passage concerning Mr. Kreiten had been inserted by Nazi propagandists. That assertion has never been disproved. Mr. Hofer sought unsuccessfully to sue Der Spiegel for calling him an ''armchair perpetrator'' during World War II.
        Mr. Hofer is survived by his second wife, Petra Moschiri, and two daughters from his first marriage to Elfriede Scheurer, a former ballet dancer, who died in 1982.
      