
        Gloria Cestero Diaz, a champion of New York's Puerto Rican community since its early days some 60 years ago, died on Oct. 24 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged. A resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, she was 87.
        Starting in 1936, Mrs. Diaz set out to aid jobless Puerto Ricans driven to New York looking for work and prosperity. She worked with public agencies and private groups and in political circles to help the immigrants create new lives.
        Her interests were social welfare, education, the judicial process for new immigrants, the language barrier and social adjustment, particularly that of children.
        She was a board member of the Puerto Rican Institute and was active in politics for more than 50 years, chiefly through the Caribe Democratic Club of Manhattan and the Democratic State Committee.
        A native of San Juan, Mrs. Diaz was born into a politically active family of lawyers and judges. Just out of high school, she married a Mexican bullfighter, Jose Ramirez, known as Gaonita. They traveled and lived throughout Central and South America and the Caribbean.
        After they divorced, she moved to New York City, where she married Frank Diaz, a chief engineer for the United Fruit Company.
        She was a campaign worker for President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936. In 1952, she became a member of the Caribe Club, serving on the board of directors.
        Ms. Diaz campaigned for Robert F. Wagner in the 1953 mayoral election and for Senator John F. Kennedy's 1960 presidential campaign at Democratic state headquarters and the Committee on Nationalities and Intergroup Relations.
        She was a member of the Women's Division of the Democratic State Committee and a member of the Puerto Rican Association of Women Voters. She also worked for social service agencies that assisted needy families and their children.
        Mrs. Diaz's husband died four years ago. She is survived by three daughters from her first marriage, Coco Ramirez Morris of Sarasota, Fla., and Ketty Pelaez and Tina Ramirez, both of Manhattan; a sister, Luisa Lolon of Manhattan; a half brother, Edward Pion of Washington; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      