
        The Rev. Osborne E. Scott, one of the first black chaplains in the Army, who later created some of the earliest college courses in urban and ethnic studies, died on Nov. 2 at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81 and a Mount Vernon, N.Y., resident for the last 45 years.
        He died of heart failure following pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Scott, a longtime pastor of Trinity Baptist Church in Brooklyn, joined the faculty of City College in 1969 to organize its urban and ethnic studies. As department chairman, he helped develop curriculums for ethnic specializations after the student unrest of the late 1960's.
        City College itself was shut by disorder and disruptions for two weeks in the spring of 1969. Among other issues, rebellious students demanded that Hispanic and black history be taught in the education department.
        In response, Mr. Scott, starting modestly, mostly with white students in attendance, created courses on African-American, Puerto Rican, Asian-American and Jewish history and culture. He was a professor in the black studies department until 1986, when he took emeritus status.
        He was born in Gloucester, Va., and graduated from Hampton Institute. He received a divinity degree from Oberlin Graduate School of Theology and a master's from Columbia University Teachers College.
        He was an Army chaplain from 1941 to 1964, when he retired with the rank of lieutenant colonel. In 1946, he became the first African-American to be appointed to the faculty of the Army Chaplain School. He held supervisory and administrative positions while posted to New Guinea, the Philippines, Japan, Europe and Korea, where he assisted in the reconstruction of war-scarred provinces.
        After leaving the Army and before joining City College, he was executive vice president of the American Leprosy Mission of Greenville, S.C.
        His wife, Jean Sampson Scott, died in 1990. His survivors include two sons, Osborne Jr., of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Michael D., of Bangor, Me., and several grandchildren.
      