
        Ira Wolfert, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent in World War II who wrote the acclaimed 1943 novel ''Tucker's People,'' on which the cult movie ''Force of Evil'' was based, died on Monday at Mountainside Residential Care Center in Margaretville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Lake Hill, N.Y.
        Mr. Wolfert won widespread praise for ''Tucker's People'' and other books of fiction and nonfiction that he wrote during the war and in the postwar years. His eyewitness nonfiction work ''Battle for the Solomons,'' also published in 1943, was a best seller, and his 1945 nonfiction book ''American Guerrilla in the Philippines'' was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection and was made into a 1950 movie with the same title. Mr. Wolfert's 1948 novel, ''An Act of Love,'' also became a best seller.
        ''Tucker's People,'' which was republished earlier this year by the University of Illinois Press, was Mr. Wolfert's first novel. It is set in the New York underworld during the 1930's and 40's. The character named Tucker is a vicious figure in the numbers racket who manipulates his underlings savagely. Mr. Wolfert, who grew up in Brooklyn, gathered material for the book while covering trials of racketeers as a journalist.
        Mr. Wolfert wrote the screenplay for ''Force of Evil'' with Abraham Polonsky, a screenwriter, novelist and director. The 1948 movie, which starred John Garfield, was ''largely dismissed as a routine gangster drama,'' according to the film historian Ephraim Katz. But it now enjoys praise from contemporary critics.
        It was as a correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance that Mr. Wolfert received a Pulitzer Prize in 1943 ''for distinguished telegraphic reporting on international affairs'' for three articles he wrote about a sea battle off Guadalcanal in November 1942.
        A native New Yorker, he received a bachelor's degree from the Columbia University School of Journalism in 1930, wrote for the North American Newspaper Alliance in the 1930's and 1940's, until 1945, and continued to write articles, mainly for Reader's Digest, after World War II. He also wrote short stories.
        His wife of 69 years, the former Helen Herschdorfer, a poet, died in 1985.
        He is survived by a daughter, Ruth Wolfert, of Manhattan; a son, Michael, a novelist, of Lake Hill; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 23, 1998, Thursday  An obituary of the Pulitzer Prize-winning World War II correspondent and novelist Ira Wolfert on Nov. 27 misstated the duration of his marriage to the former Helen Herschdorfer. A reader's E-mail message on Monday pointed out that they were married 57 years, not 69.
      