
        Charles Jordon, a leading publisher of Christian and inspirational literature, died on Thursday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. He was 52 and lived in Irving, Tex.
        The cause was liver failure, according to Word Publishing, of which he had been publisher and executive vice president since 1988.
        Under Mr. Jordon's guidance, the 47-year-old company, formerly Word Inc., became a force in Christian publishing and published many of its best sellers. It became a division of Thomas Nelson Inc., a publishing house in Nashville, in 1993 and relocated there from Dallas two months ago.
        Among the company's leading authors were the Rev. Billy Graham and his evangelist daughter, Anne Graham Lotz; the Rev. Pat Robertson; Dr. James Dobson, a pediatrician and family psychologist; former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas; Charles W. Colson, former special counsel to the Nixon White House who became a lay minister and founded Prison Fellowship, , and Millard Fuller, founder of Habitat for Humanity, which builds housing for needy families.
        Word Publishing authors were consistently among the leading entries of hardcover nonfiction titles on the Publishers Weekly Religion Bestseller List. The company has been a chief beneficiary of the current surge in interest in Christian fiction, a term that embraces romance, historical fiction and detective stories, among others. The books are sold in Christian bookstores around the country.
        Mr. Jordon came to Christian publishing in 1973 as a Christian education consultant for Sweet Publishing in Texas and rose to president by 1980. He joined Word Inc. three years later as vice president for film and video development, and was named publisher in 1988. He was a director and past president of the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association.
        He was also a director of Dallas Christian Leadership and founder of the first Habitat for Humanity chapter in Texas.
        A native of Tyler, Tex., he studied chemistry and math at what is now Abilene Christian University, graduating in 1966.
        He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Kathy Nelson Jordon; two sons, Kelly, of Mineola, Tex., and Karl, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; his mother, Virginia Jordon of Eustis, Fla., and his sister, Mitzi J. Brown of Henderson, Tenn.
      