
        Jorge Mas Canosa, who came to the United States as a penniless refugee from the dictatorship of Fidel Castro and built the Cuban-American National Foundation into one of Washington's most effective lobbying groups, died here this afternoon at home. He was 58.
        Mr. Mas died of lung cancer, officials of the foundation said at a news conference this evening. But they also mentioned pleurisy and renal failure as causes of death and said he had also been suffering from Paget's disease, which causes the bones to degenerate.
        From the moment he arrived in Miami in 1960, Mr. Mas dedicated himself to seeking the overthrow of Mr. Castro, first as a conspirator in various armed plots and then, for the last two decades, in the halls of Congress. His organization became a familiar presence on Capitol Hill and over the years earned a reputation as single-minded in purpose and generous in its donations to officeholders willing to endorse its objectives.
        For more than a decade, three American Presidents have sought his advice on Cuban affairs to such an extent that many critics of Mr. Mas considered him the principal architect of an American policy they regarded as excessively rigid. Every significant piece of legislation on Cuba since 1980 has borne his imprint, from the establishment of Radio and TV Marti to last year's Helms-Burton Act tightening the economic embargo of Cuba.
        At a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising dinner in Miami in 1992, President George Bush declared, ''I salute Jorge Mas.'' He called Mr. Mas the living embodiment of the success of Cuban immigrants in the United States. By then, Mr. Mas had already become a millionaire many times over in the communications and construction businesses.
        To advance his cause, Mr. Mas also traveled extensively around the world, trying to form alliances with anyone he thought useful in the struggle against Mr. Castro. He was an early patron of Boris Yeltsin, energetically supported the Angolan guerrilla leader Jonas Savimbi and encouraged Latin American leaders like Carlos Menem of Argentina to speak out against Mr. Castro.
        But his many detractors in the United States and abroad saw in Mr. Mas the same dictatorial streak, relish for power and intolerance of opposing views that characterized Mr. Castro's rule. Over the airwaves of Spanish-language radio stations in Miami and in letters to the editor and public debates, Mr. Mas repeatedly questioned the patriotism of those who disagreed with him and threatened, in some cases, to ruin their lives or careers.
        His death leaves a power vacuum among Cuban exile groups in Miami and will surely be greeted with relief, if not outright glee, in Havana, where the state-controlled news media for years have regularly reviled him as the main leader of ''the counterrevolutionary Miami mafia.'' Mr. Mas had neither named nor groomed a successor and held the many fractious currents of the exile world together largely through force of personality and tenacity.
        Foundation officials today named Alberto Hernandez, a physician who is the organization's vice chairman, as Mr. Mas's temporary successor. They said a permanent replacement would be elected at their group's congress next July.
        Jorge Mas Canosa was born in Santiago, Cuba, on Sept. 21, 1939, the third of six children of a veterinarian in the Cuban Army. In some respects, his upbringing was much like that of his future enemy, Fidel Castro, who was 13 years older: Both had stern fathers, both were initially educated at private schools in Cuba's second-largest city, and both would later be remembered by their former classmates as fiery orators and aggressive, natural-born leaders.
        During Mr. Castro's guerrilla struggle against the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista in the mid-1950's, Mr. Mas was sent by his father to the United States to study at a college in North Carolina. He returned home in January 1959, just days after Mr. Castro seized power, plunged into student politics, soon got in trouble with the new authorities and in mid-1960 returned to the United States, this time for good.
        He quickly joined the exile force being trained by the Central Intelligence Agency for the Bay of Pigs invasion but ended up being put aboard a vessel that was kept offshore during that April 1961 debacle. A brief stint in the United States Army followed, ending with Mr. Mas leaving after it became clear the Kennedy Administration had no further plans to invade Cuba.
        Back in Miami, Mr. Mas held a succession of blue-collar jobs, working as a milkman, stevedore and shoe salesman while devoting his free time to the anti-Castro movement. According to his associates of that time, he helped raise money, obtain weapons and scout possible sites in the Caribbean and Central America from which Cuba could be attacked or invaded.
        By 1971, Mr. Mas had, with the aid of a $50,000 loan and recommendations from fellow exiles, acquired a small company, Iglesias y Torres, that did work for the telephone company in Puerto Rico. He renamed the business Church & Tower and within a year had won contracts to lay cable and install telephone poles for Southern Bell in Florida.
        Over the years, Church & Tower became the foundation of a telecommunications empire that transformed Mr. Mas into one of the wealthiest Hispanic businessmen in the United States, with a net worth of more than $100 million at the time of his death. The family business, now called Mastec, today has interests in the United States and in telephone companies and other ventures throughout Latin America and in Spain.
        But even as he was building his fortune, Mr. Mas remained active in exile politics in Miami. He abandoned his advocacy of armed struggle, arguing that ill-organized invasions of Cuba and acts of violence in the United States damaged the cause more than they helped, and he urged exiles to shift their attention to Washington and focus their efforts on using American foreign policy to cripple Mr. Castro.
        After Ronald Reagan was elected in 1980, Mr. Mas became an American citizen and, at the suggestion of the new President's staff, founded the Cuban-American National Foundation. The organization, which today has 50,000 members, soon made its influence felt in Washington, funneling generous campaign donations to Republicans and Democrats alike and pushing for one bill after another to intensify the diplomatic and economic isolation of Cuba.
        One of Mr. Mas's early triumphs was the establishment of Radio Marti, an American Government station intended to provide an alternative source of news for Cuba's 11 million people. By the end of the 1980's, that service had expanded into television, and Mr. Mas had been named chairman of the advisory board of the Office of Cuba Broadcasting, which oversees both stations.
        Mr. Mas's critics, as well as several former Radio and TV Marti employees who had clashed with him, maintained he used the broadcasts to advance what they described as his ambitions to succeed Mr. Castro as president of Cuba. But each year Congress brushed off those criticisms, and to date has spent more than $250 million on programming for the stations.
        In 1992, Mr. Mas was instrumental in passing legislation that tightened the economic embargo against Cuba in all areas except telephone communications. That triumph was followed four years later by the Helms-Burton Act, which embroiled the Clinton Administration in a complicated dispute with some of its closest allies and trading partners by allowing Cuban-Americans to sue foreign companies investing in or using expropriated properties in Cuba.
        All the while, Mr. Mas's influence in Miami and Dade County politics was also growing. He and other leaders of the foundation gave generously to candidates for municipal and county office.
        Mr. Mas also became known for personal feuds and lawsuits that were numerous and colorful. In one celebrated instance, he challenged Joe Carollo, who just last week lost his re-election bid as Mayor of Miami, to a duel, saying, ''Your bullying has ended because you have encountered a man with a capital M.''
        Given a choice of guns or swords, Mr. Carollo defused the situation by suggesting water pistols be used. But he continued to criticize Mr. Mas and the Foundation, once calling them ''a little clique of millionaires who have made a very profitable business of combating Communism.''
        In another instance, Mr. Mas lost a libel suit brought by an estranged younger brother, who testified that Church & Tower had won several of its contracts by dispensing bribes. But perhaps his longest-running dispute was with The Miami Herald, which he accused of harboring Cuban spies on its reporting staff and of encouraging ''hate, disinformation and reckless disregard'' of the Cuban exile community.
        That feud reached a peak in 1992 when Mr. Mas and his supporters paid for advertisements on city buses that proclaimed, ''I don't believe The Miami Herald'' and organized a boycott of the newspaper that lasted for several months. At the peak of the dispute, some of the newspaper's vending machines were filled with excrement, and death threats were made to some of its employees, actions that Mr. Mas disavowed.
        The apogee of his influence probably came in the summer of 1994, when President Clinton invited Mr. Mas to the White House to discuss how to stem the flow of refugees then coming across the Florida Straits in rafts and adopted several of his recommendations. Mr. Mas continued his efforts into the Clinton Administration's second term, but the pace of his activities slowed as his health gradually worsened.
        Mr. Mas is survived by his wife, Irma, and three sons, Jorge Jr., who has for several years run the family business, Juan Carlos, a lawyer, and Jose Ramon.
      